A STROLOGY
ITS TECHNICS AND ETHICS

C. AO. LIBRA
authorised translation from the Dutch by Coba G . :

Ferme l 'oeil ’

et l oreille a la prévenfion ;
C ’ ’ ’

rains l exemple d antra i ; pense d aprés toi-méme :
Consulte, délibére, et choisis librement.
La isse les fous agir et sans but et sans cause

’

Tu dois dans le présent, contempler l avenir.
Vers Dorés de Pythagore, p . 181 .

’

FABRE d oLlVET .

1917

PUBLISHED BY P. Dz . VEEN , AMERSFOORT (THE NETHERLANDS)
mm he ordered through :

L. N. FOWLER CO., LTD,
pusu susas aooxssu eas

I . Tudor Street , London. E.C .4



i 3 3 .5

L 10 3 Cu Ea,
C ON T EN T S .

Introdu ct ion ; One reason of astrology being discredited. ls astrology an empir
ica l science ? A university of astrology. How grea t a part astrology might play
in the sphere of education. The materia l and occu l t sciences. The re ligions. How
the initia tes hid their wisdom for humanity.

We l l known men who stud ied Astrology ; Arabian, Cha ldean, Egyptian etc.

priest“astrologers Why Moses forbade the study of astrology. Thomas Aqu inas,
A lbertus M agnus, Dante, Tycho B rahe etc. People who were born at exactly
the same time .

The Laws of Karma and Reincarna t ion ; Needs astrology a founda tion of
bel ief ? Wha t is the Ego ? C an we co-opera te and oppose ? A rationa l explana
tion of the different phases in our existence .

The Use of Astrology ; How to learn to make the most of our time. Astrology
combined with the medica l science. Wha t we have to do and to leave undone.

The A spec ts ; The phases of the planets.

ng and Weak Na tu res ; How we can, by our fear, strengthen the influence
the inharmonious aspects. Is it not highly usefu l to be fore-wam ed ?

Cosmos ; The solar systems. The Centra l S un. The backward movement
of the Equ inox. Ve locities. Terms used in cosmology. Geocentric astrology and

’
a . Copernicus heliocentric system. S iderea l time.

w
Fate and Free-w i l l ; Harmony, Disharmon Evil . If a physician intervenes
Q or if birth is de layed. Exa l ted individua lities. he ordina man. The Wil l of the

Logos. Is there no chance ? P laything of circumstances. Has the harmony which
now manifests itself, a lways ru led the Cosmos? Asteroids, Comets,M eteorl tes The
strife in the Heavens.

omething abou t Symbology
; Spirit, sou l , matter . The circle, the cross, the

dot. The symbols of the 2 0 aca l signs The dark and white serpent .
horoscope ? Sectors in the horoscope . B irth by day,
guess the hour of birth. Horoscopes cast for

rcepted signs. The direction of the movement of the
signs and the planets.

he Twe lve S igns of the Zod iac ; The Law which bears a ll these things. The
l ight of the eterna l Tru th reflected in the lower kingdoms. A triplici which joins a
quadruple . The four castes of the Hindus. The ru lers of the signs. orresponding
parts of the Body.

he Ascendant or R ising S ign ; Appearance, temperament, genera l character .

The characteristics and tendencies which the native has made h1s own. Q ua l ifies
not sufficiently developed. The form of the body, the transition of one sign in

another. The imp u lsive ARIES , the do ma tic TAURUS , the ever chang ing GEM IN I ,
the sensitive C RAB , the king ly or lord y LEO, the systema tic VIRGO, the indolent



Vl l l

L IBRA , the j ea lous SCORPIO, the op en and frank SAG ITTAR IUS, the earnest and
cau tious CAPRICORN , the idea listic AQUAR IUS, the not app recia ted P ISCES.

Inf lu ence of the Decanates on Body and Charac ter ;
T he P lanets ; B enefics and ma lefics. Fiery, airy, earthy and wa tery planets.

Ennobled and degenerated action. Delay of action. The S un the ru ler of a ll life.

The M oon the g iver of form. A time for working out materia l experiences, and a
t '

ime for medita tion. Inf luence of the Moon on vegetation etc. Moon-inf luence
on the medica l herbs ga thered during certa in constel lations. C ritica l days with
acu te il lnesses. The wing ed Messeng er of the Gods, Mercury. The movement of
M ercury. B eau ty or p leasure seeking VENUS. The God of War MARS. Op timistic
JUP ITER

‘

. The p un ier SATURN ; the moons of Saturn. Zeus the conqueror. The
New Pa th finder RANUS . Nebu lous NEPTUNE.

Handwr it ing 69) of the different planetary types. The style ofwriting. Movements,
rotations, moons, distances, densities, mass of the planets. The seven senses and
the planets.

P lanetary Spheres ; An e lectric hypothesis. The ou ter side of things. The rea l
Substance . M aya . A reciproca l action. The protecting atmosphere . Our solar system
and its different copies and reflections. Ph sica l manifestation of the heavenly
bodies. The stamp of the whole Cosmos. elocity of light. Electric and magnetic
constants. The atom with its e lectrons. Adhesion, cohesion, magnetism. The ou t
ward boundary of the rea l planet . The substance of the planet. The essence. A
c lose copy of the Cosmos. Na tures that are strongly psychic and magnetic. The
same colours in the aura (Reichenbach) . Time and space .

T he Aspects ; Angu lar distances between two planets expressed in degrees.

When an aspect comes into operation. Harmonious and inharmonious influences.

M athema tica l l ines in na ture . The crysta ls. Lines of splitting.

Ou t l ines of the A spects in Re la t ion to the EvolutionofM an ; 77) . Our character
our destiny. The courage to take up the cross.

Ou t l ines of the A spec ts ; About character, the first difficu l ties, a strong
source of help, a hard stru —

ggle, the fru it of a victory, a harmonious union.

T he Aspect- inf luence of the P lanets ; The bounds within which an aspect
exercises its action.

M undane Aspec ts ; Proportiona l distance.

Polar ity ; E lectric, magnetic and e lectro-magnetic natures.

T he Astrolog ica l Houses ; The immediate surroundings or the materia l cir
cumstances of the native . Wha t many astronomers bel ieve. The ha lf of the vau l t
Of heaven occupied by one zodiaca l sign. When man out of the spiritua l world
descends into matter , when he takes pa rt in the fu l l life . Mature age . Old age .

Occu l t houses.

T he Twe lve Houses as d ifferent Fie lds of A ctivity ; A close connection of
these 12 parts and the 12 zodiaca l signs. How a highly developed Ego observes
the expression of a planet through a house otherwise than a low developed Ego.

An easy survey.

M eaning of the 12 Houses ; Wha t each house can represent. I. THE STRUGGLE
FOR L IFE , 11. UNFIXED POSSESS IONS, Ill . AB IL ITY, IV. FIXED POSSESS IONS , V. ENTER
T A INMENT S , VI. SERVI CE, Vl l . SOC IAL L IFE, VI11. iNHERlTANCES 1X.

, JOURNEYS,
X . THE MORAL STANDPO INT of the native, Xl . ATTITUDE TOWARDS HUM AN ITY,

XII. SECLUS ION AND L IM ITATION . The. orbs of the houses.

C a lcu la tion of the Horoscope ; Tables of Houses. An Ephemeris for the year
of birth. The difference between standard and loca l time etc. Accepted standard



times. The Siderea l time. Correction in the S iderea l time . Examples for ca lcu la ting
the ascendant. C us s of the houses. lntercepted signs. Positions of the planets.

’ ’

Dragon s head an Dragon s tail . The Part of Fortune. Corrections. Insertion of
the planets in the houses. Ca lcu lation of a horoscope for a place with southern
latitude.

Inf lu ence of the P lanets in the Ascendant ; Influence in Asc. of the Moon,
S un, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune.

The S un, the Moon and the Rema ining P lanets in the D ifferent Houses ;
The Nodes. The concrete synthesis of the horoscope. One short glance at the

’

qua lities of the native s sou l .
The S un in the Twelve S igns ; How the Ego expresses itself. Is the rea l
power of the Ego revea led by the horoscope ? Horoscopes of wel l -known leaders
and great men in various spheres of action. The l imitations to which the Ego is
subjected in his expression.

The Moon in the Twe lve S igns ; Passing tendencies of the persona l ity.

“Pigeon-hole work”, the condemned system. How to judge the various combina
tions. Genera l action of the planets in the signs on the parts of the body tha t
the signs represent.
Genera l A ct ion of the P lanets in the Houses and S igns ; How to develop
our facu l ty of combining.

A ct ion of the Aspects ; Prosperi limitations. The character and the action of
the aspectsof the S un,Moon, Mercury, enus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn,Uranus,Neptune.

The Ru ler of the Horoscope ; Genera l notice. Planets tha t exercise the

greatest influence on the life . The position of the ru ler .

Planets in Strong or in Weak Posi tions ; S ign of strength and ofweakness.

Inte l lec t, M emory and Character ; The nature of the fee lings as evidenced
in thought.

M arriage, Friendship, Enmi ty etc. ; Friends, open enemies, secret enemies.

The reason here is sympathy and there antipathy ma be found. Indications
for sympathyt. yelay in marriage. Very strong attracnon. n unsurmountable wa l l,
misunderstanding.

Hea l th and Disease ; To find the part of the body that is l iable to suffer.
Accidents and sudden death. When serious su ffering is indicated. When it is
dangerous to opera te .

The Ca l l ing ; The nature of the ca l lings tha t come under the different planets.

Travel l in When there is a tendency for trave l l ing. A desire for a fixed
abode. glie place where to go and to dwel l .

Ju d ing the Horoscope ; How to ana lyse the horoscope. The strong chief
in luences and the weaker, subservient ones. B irth-scheme.

Genera l Remarks ; Inf luence of the planets on body, fee lings, intel lect. S ub
jective and objective consciousness. Ada tability and one-sidedness. The planets
dispersed. Para l lels. Fau l ts which ma e control led by our wil l . Moon-action
with a woman. Strength of character. ita lity. Critica l degrees. The dark and l ight
part of the lunar month. Work that must be done in this 1ncarnation.

The Infl uence of the Fixed Sta rs ; C an there be any life in the Cosmos tha t
does not excercise its definite inf luence on any other integrant part ?
Sensi tive P laces in the Horoscope. Dura t ion of L i fe ; The giver and
the destroyer of l ife. Sensitive points.



The Progressive Horoscope ; Repeti tion everywhere in nature. Grea t periods
of cu l ture. Growth of the embryo. Periods of earth-deve lopment. Rhythm.

Zodiaca l and Mundane Direc tions ; The most rel iable directions for predic
tions. When the persona lity and when our spiritua l growth come more to the fore .

Ca lcu la tion of the Progressive A spec ts ; Of the planets. Prog. para l lels. Orbs.

Sun-Revolu tions ; Year-horoscopes. Il lustration of the ca lcula tions.

Moon-Revolu t ions ; Month and da -

y horoscopes. To fix the exact day on

which an event takes place that is indicated by one of the progressions.

Transits ; Da ily transits of the planets across the important places in the
“ ’

radix horoscope . Sa turn hunting the Moon. An indication of the native s good
and bad times. Transits to the positions of the progressive lanets. Transits
throu h the different houses of the horoscope. Fortunate and nu ortuna te months
and ays. Para l lels in the daily course .

Ec l ipses ; The Metonic c cle. An il lustra tion of the action of the eclipses in
the horoscope of King Edwar VII.

New M oon (Luna tions) and P lanetary Conjunctions ; Influence on the events
in the month fol lowing it .
Per iods of the P lanets ;
The P laneta ry Hours ; Names of the planets and the days of the week in the
various languages. M enta l and rel igious practices a t definite planetary hours.

Those who doubt wil l a fter investiga tion probably change their opinion.

T he Pre-na ta l Horosco e and Corr ec tion of the Time of B irth ; The
mom “

ent of conception. he ru le of H ”
ermes. The horoscope of the astra l body.

Fu ture sex of the embryo. Premature death of children. Deforma tions, teratologic
products.How tomake litt le corrections in the time ofnorma l births. A table to help in
ca lcu lation. Horoscope for the Epoch. How the day of Epoch may be found. The
hour tha t the conception took place. Il lustra tion. Correction of the birth of
President Wilson. Another more simple method of rectification. Why Astrology is
so fascinating a study.

A ct ion of the Directions ; The mora l standpoint of the person. Inborn ten
dencies. Inf luences operating on resu l tant qua lities. Duration of the action. C li
macteric years. How the progr . Moon-aspects bring us into contact wi th people ,

typified by the planet that she aspects.

M undane Direct ions, Protections ; Proportionate distances from the cusps.

M undane para l le ls. Twe lve-yearly, yearly and monthly profections.

Direc t ions of the S un ; Fittest menta l atti tudes by which one may fight and
endeavour to overcome the inharmonious influences.

Moon M ercu ry Venus-Directions ; The most important progres
sive aspects.

Examp le to i l lustra te the P l
”

anetary Inf lu ences ; The great
“Titanic -drama .

The hor. of the best-known passenger W. T. S tead ; the hor. of captain Smith.

Countries and Towns coming under the D i fferent S igns of the Zod iac ;
Karma of the nations, of tribes and countries. B -

y circumstances. The Londoner and
the Yankee, the Prussian type . Children born of colonists in America .

The Zod iac of the Head ; Centres of consciousness. Organs for the 6th and
7th sense.

The Zodiac of the Eye ; Eye
-Diagnostics. How Ignaz Peczely discovered this

quite new method of diagnostics. Colour of the eyes. Symptoms of degenerat1on.



T “
he eye, the mirror of the sou l and of the body. The gift of deciphering the

cosmic hieroglyphs. D iagram. Il lness, a process of recovery for the sou l .
Astrology and M ed ic ine ; Astrology of great use in medicine, as regards
diagnostics as we l l as therapeutics and prognosis. The relation between the planets
and certain diseases. The re la tion between definite planets and definite veget
able and minera l remedies. The influence of the planet-colours on certain diseases

“ ”
and on the state of the mind . The house of disease . The M ind. Vita lity. The
strong influence of materia lism on the science of medicine. The critica l days.

Why do e .g. infectious diseases appear good
-natured one year and ma licious

in another year ?
Diseases coming under the P lanets in the d i fferent S igns ; In wha t direc
tion we have to look for it . A short study of the characters. Diseases of the
physica l body, of the sou l , of the mind. An astrologica l prediction abou t syphil is.

Embryology and Heredi ty w i th respec t to Astrolog The moment of
impregnancy The sperm, the ovum. lnheriting of the qua ities of father and mother.

The qua litie of the Ego. What is inherited from the parents? Horoscopes of
parents and child with regard to heredity compared. The embryo in its develop
ment. The whole secret of the continuity of a race. Evolu tion. The growth in
proportion to and in harmony with the qua lities of the resp. planets. The deve l
opment of the eye, and of the heart. The deve lopment from the ear l iest periods
of “

anima l consciousness up to human consciousness. The famous Tabu la , Sma
”

ragdina Hermetis .

Zod iaca l M an ;

The Cosmos in Re la t ion to Number Sound and Colou r ; Numbers are

symbols with a profound meanin The cabba listic va lues of the numbers. The
exact order of the atom-weight o the meta ls and the 7 planets in the Cha ldean
order. C l “

ose relation between colour , sound and the planets. The Harmony
”

of the Spheres .

Proportions in the Cosmos in Na ture and A rt ; The wor ld is bu il t upon
the power of numbers. The numbers 1 , 2, 3, 4, 7, 12. Kant and the three-dimen
sioua l space. The higher dimensions. Proportions in the Cosmos, the Golden cut.
The so-ca l led D ivine proportion in the human bod with mamma ls, birds, insects
and sna ils, straight-winged insects, beetles, in the vegetable kingdom, in the
minera l kingdom, in crysta ls, in the distribu ting ofwa ter and land ; in rea l , inspired
u tterings of art, in temples, in the distance and revolu tion of the planets etc.

Man, the measure of a ll things.

’
Astrology and the Bib le ; What is the B ible ? The ancient christians fish
symbol . The Old and New Testament. The Indian-B rahman, Persian, Egyptian,

Jewish, Christian, Slavonic, American era . The twelve Apostles. The twe lve tribes.

The 12 sons of Jacob. The 4 quadrants of the Tabam acle. The breastplate of the
jewish highpriest. The new Jerusa lem. The holy city. The four anima ls. The l ife
of Jesus. John the B aptist. The three wise men. B ethlehem. Jesus baptised. B read
and wine. Judas with the 30 pieces of silver. The crown of thorns. The scarlet

’
robe . S imon of Cyrene. Golgotha . The soldiers. Joseph s many-coloured robe. The
story of Job . The drama of the crucifixion.

Conc lusion and Esoter ics ; Has the earth rea l ly a sou l ? (KEPLER) . Radiating
matter (prof. CROOKES). The density of the ether (OLIVER LODGE) . A con

formity between an atom and a solar system. Experiments taken by DE ROCHAS
and DURVILLE. The aura (RE ICHENBACH) . The power in thought .
Trea t ise on Evolu t ion ; of the vibrations. One condition ofvibra tion.

Astrology, the sou l of Astronomy. Short esoteric treatise. The physica l S un, the



XI I

spiritua l ’

S un. Ptolomy s astronomica l system. The integra l parts permeate each
other. The ape a degenera ted man. The opinion of DARW IN and RUSSELL WAL

LACE. Origina l S IN and origina l VIRTUE . The Nebu lar theory of Kant and Laplace .

Why is there so much evi l in the wor ld ? The Hierarchies. Are thoughts secreted
by the bra ins? The reflections of the Cosmic-thoughts. A new planet manifests
itself when a great Wor ld-teacher rises. Symbols of the myste

-planets. The
’

12 signs in connection with the 12 Nidana s of the Buddhists. here sha l l we
have to seek the three supposed planets ?
Conc lusion ;



INTRODUCTION.

Many of those who take up the study of astrology complain of the
great obscurity of the books of study, of the many technical terms,
incomprehensible to the laity, and especially of the difficu lties of the
calculations, which latter are unsurmountable for those who have no
knowledge of mathemati cs and cosmology .

I will , therefore , try to remove these obstacles, by using foreign
names as l ittl e as possible , and by simplifying the calculations in such
a manner that any one of average intellect and with a knowledge of
ordinary ari thmetic, may be able to follow this study without much diffi cu lty.

Further, I will try to be as brief and clear as possible , omitting all
superfluous digressions, and yet giving a fairly complete survey of that
branch of Astrology which is ca lled Genethl iacal Astrology , that which
applies to nativity or birth.

This branch is by far the most important and therefore counts most
students.

Astrology has the advantage over other occu lt sciences in that it
“

asks no belief” of the student, but only investigation. Any one who
takes up the study of his own birth-horoscope , with some assidui ty, will
be able to demonstrate by numerous fa cts, looked up by himself, that
Astrology is true , is founded on facts in nature.

To this end it is positively necessary to know the exact time of
’

one s birth, and as, for the last half century , the hour of birth had to
be filled in at the registry one might go there for inqu iry.

Next you will have to obtain an ephemeris 2) for the year in which
you were born ; you may then cast your own horoscope and study it.
You will find how extremely interesting this study is"
Those who know by research and experience , how much our l i fe,

our doings and deal ings, our moods, in fact, all that happens in the
world, is influenced by the powers that work in the Cosmos, often
wonder how it is possible that a science such as astrology, which
comprises the study of those cosmic powers, has relatively so few
students and so many Opponents. It is strange , for it is easy to show
the truth of astrology practical ly, to any one who wishes it.
One reason of astrology being discredited is surely to be found in

the rubbish brought into the market under the name of astrology and

1) This is the case on the continent, bu t not a las, in Great Britain, where date
suffices.

2) Raphael ’s Ephemeris for each year, price 1 Sb . per year. Published by W.

Fou lsham Co, London.



2

planetlore, but having nothing whatever to do with it in reality . In
every branch of science , however, fraud and charlatanism are to be found.

But the principa l causes are the dogmatism of modern religions and
the rapid development during the last centuries of material ism , which
has brought man to accept only that which he can observe with his
three-dimensiona l senses 1) and explain through well-known physica l
laws, regardless of the cause , the foundation of these phenomena .

We need not accept anything supernatural in astrology, according to
this doctrine also everything happens along natura l and unchangeable
laws ; but also it teaches us that in the Universe laws operate ofwhich
we still know very little ; we see them in their ou tward resu lts, but
so far we can only guess how they work. For this reason astrology is
for the greater part an empirica l science , it is founded on observations
which have been made for centuries.

Astrology begi
“

ns to gradually draw the attention of the public, of
late. In the United States there is a lready a University of Astrology,
where one may graduate in this science , and the time is coming when
the elements of astrology will be taught in schools as a part of cos

mology, and for England as well , that time will come, however conser
vative the English may be. Is it not far more usefu l for a child to
understand something of l ife in the Cosmos, than to be able to give
the exact date of the settl ing of Flemish weavers in Pembrokeshire , or

to know on which day for the first time the eldest son of the English
sovereign was cal led Prince of Wa les?
What great a part astrology might play in the sphere Of education,

in self-education as well as in the hands Of parents and teachers" By
going ’

carefu l ly through the children s horoscopes, they wou ld get to
understand their pupils better and real ise that under certain planetary
influences they cou ld scarcely help acting in an unusu al manner and
thus many an unjustly inflicted punishment will be left aside .

Every child bears at his birth his own characteristics in him, and
these will never change, they are inseparable of his individual ity
and this the pedagogu e has to take into account , if he wants to make
of a child what can be made of him. And for this, accurate knowledge
of his characteristics and talents, on which his horoscope throws light,
must show the way. As things often are now , fa ilures are made of
them ignorant of the laws, they try to lead the child in a direction
not meant for him , and the natural talent gets su ffocated. Yet, it will
assert itself later, but only a fter much disappoinment and fa ilure .
The material sciences, however far advanced , are still far from being

complete, and moreover deal with the outer side only ; to the Foun

1) By three-dimensiona l senseswemean the physical senses, bywhichwe can only
percept that which is ph sica l in length, bread th and height. Ou r astra l and
menta l senses, however, alyow us to make Observations in higher dimensions ,

they a llow us to see through physica l matter.



dation of things the real Cause they do no penetrate and they
are not as yet sufficiently advanced to set themselves with some
ground up as competent judges of the occu lt sciences.

We may respect the great progress of the material sciences, and
apply ourselves to them with the greatest interest, if we sti ll bear in
mind that they are far from being omniscient and that to a high degree
it is narrow and conceited and in the true sense of the word
“
unscientifi c” that a grea t thinker l ike e.g. Hackel , the German

“ ”
Darwin puts his professoral veto on theological , cosmological , teleolo
gical and

'

ethnological proofs of immortal ity . Not everything can be
reduced to a pa lpable ,,scientific ground.

Though the astrologica l influences do not fal l beyond the sphere of
natural laws, they do fal l beyond the circle in which our sciences of
nature move and therefore material scientists are incompetent to put
their veto on them. How often are the material scientists compelled to
change their theories and hypotheses, in order to accept in the end that
which, centuries ago, was acknowledged to be tru e by the occu lt science ?
We need only point to the atom-theory which has been altered repeatedly
and the theory of vibrations. And l ikewise it will happenwith chemistry,
the great number of elements wil l melt together into the one Ur-element
that Occu ltism has, and of which the other elements are only vibration
proportions. Occult Science has always been some centuries in advance
of the material sciences ; it is the mother of those sciences and the
mother of religions as well ; for it contains the esoteri c, the inner side
of all religions. And astrology is a part of the occu lt sciences.

All religions are based on the esoteri c doctri ne and are the different,
ou ter (exoteric) expressions of it. However much they differ, they are

al l necessary ; for all men have not evolved in the same direction, each
differs in his conception of tru th. His present conception serves him as

long as it is needfu l to his evolution. After that he searches, gu ided
by intu ition in another direction.

Change of conception in religion shou ld not always be ascribed
to inconstancy ; it is often the consequence of moral and intellectua l
growth.

All religions are views upon the great castle of tru th, seen from different
angles and through a more or less dense veil ofdust.All reveal to us one side
of the Universal Truth, but in proportion to the veil , more or less hazy
and tw isted. They are al l , however, usefu l and needfu l to their followers.

The occu lt sciences, which give us the key to many mysteries of
l ife and evolution, were wrapped in a shape, comprehensible to initiates
only, and this is to a sense the case with our B ible as well . This is
not only for the reason that humanity as a whole was not yet ripe to
understand the tru ths whi ch they contain, but also because the initiates
were officim forbidden to speak of them , during the long time of
persecu tions to which they were exposed. So they kept their wisdom
for humanity in this way.



“
In Papas

1) works a passage alluding to this runs as follows : Quand,
par su ite des persecutions da pouvoir arbitra ire, les initiés furent obl iges

’

de saucer les principes dc leur science, iLs composerent d apres les astres
an Iivre mystéfleux, resume at clef de tou ts la science antique, ci livré
rent is l ivre aux profanes sans leur en donner la clef. Les a lchimistes
comprirent le sens mystérieux de cc l ivre et plusieurs. de leur tra ités,
entre autres les douze clefs de Basile Va lentin, sont bases sur son inter

’ “
préta tion. Gu illaume Pastel en retrouva le sens ci l appala Ia Genese

’
d Henoch les Rose- Croix le possédérent éga lement . On trouvera

“
des developpements 11 cc suj et dans les derniers chap itres da R itual de

” ’ ”
Haute Magic , d Eliphas Levi.
Thus this science , predestined to be the gu ide in our l ife and to light

the world with a gigantic flame, has been smou ldering like a little spark
under the ashes, and things have come to such a pass that many study
astrology secretly, because they fear to be regarded ashalf-mad by those
friends who hold a d ifferent opinion.

Well-known Men who have studied Astrology.

It will not be superfluous to begin with a few historical notes, in
order to show how , through al l times, there have been eminent men,

whose names sound throughou t the ages, who believed in astrology
and devoted their l ives to this study.

We will not give long lists of famous Arabian, Chaldean and Egyptian
astrologers, seeing these do not mean much to the majority of people.
We will only mention the names of El B a tani and Abou l Wafa who
compiled tables for calcu lating the tangents and cotangents. The Arabian
astrologers seem to have been the first that used the sinus in their ca lcu la
tions. Astronomer, astrologer and mathematicianwere at that time united in
one person 2

. ) The first written scientific works on astrology are by
Claud ius P tolomy. He wrote in the year j : 126 AD . his wel l known
four books on the Influence of the Stars. The books are cal led : the

“
Tetrabiblos or Q uadripartite . The third and fourth book conta in the Study

”
of B irths . Ptolomy was a fol lower of the Alexandrian school ; he was
highly celebrated during the reign ofAdr ian and Antony Pius. He corrected
the existing tables of the fixed stars and drew up new tables for the
movement of sun, moon and planets. Thirteen books conta in the famous
P toloma ic System. He seems to have founded his system of astrology,

1) Papus (pseudonym Gerard Encausse) Science Occu lte (Traité élémentaire). In
this work on p .p . 145—150 a very c lear representa tion is given of theway inwhich

“
such a livre mystérieux

”
came into existence and you W i l l see by it how absolu

tely im ossible It is withou t knowing the key, to understand such a book.

2) rd B “
acon says regarding this : It shows very little common sense to classify

astronomy among the mathematica l sciences ; this classification does harm to its
”

dignity. B acon de Dign. et lncrem. Science (I, III, CIV) .






An ancient Jewish Stellar-Chart.
were compu lsory, the latter especial ly being studied in connectionwith
sound and number.
All old occu lt manuscripts, among which our B ible may be numbered ,

are fu l l of astrology ; and if Moses forbade the study of astrology, it
was most probably only by reason of the unscientific way in which it
was studied. It was much more di fficu lt in those days for one tomake
use of astrological tables, education not being so common as to day
hence there was as mu ch deception and pretence to fortune-telling as

to day, nay more so, as the age was a far more ignorant and super
stitious one. It was this abuse and charlatanism which Moses forbade .

The astrologers Thracyllus , (father and son) were the counsellors of
Tiberius and Nero. O f the father a pecu l iar anecdote is known, men
tioned by Tacitus and Plu tarch. Thracyllus knew too mu ch of the secret
thoughts and plans of the emperor Tiberius and the latter tried to get



rid of him. He took him a walk on a high wall with the purpose of
throwing him off. And he asked Thracyllus if he knew everything
concerning himself “ ” “

. Yes was the answer. I know that I am in great
danger of l i fe but Your Maj esty as well ; for I know a lso that you will
ou tl ive ”

me only by 24 hours. The emperor who had an implicit belief
in Thracyllus did not carry Out his intention.

’

Thra cyllus, the son, predicted Nero s fu ture imperial dignity.

M . Champoll ion, found, in one of the Ramses-tombs, dating of the
19th and 20th Dynasty (1400—1 133 B . an astrological table ofhouses.
which clearly indicates the accuracy of their ca l cu la tions. They knew
the relation between the twelve signs of the Zodiac and the several
parts of the human body.

The Bri tish Museum conta ins a number of horoscopes written on

papyrus. The Egyptians made their predictions chiefly according to the
so-cal led secondary or moon-directions.

’

Socra tes pupil , studied the influence of sun and moon on the
formation of both sexes.

Heraclites, a pupil of Pla to and Aristotle, wrote a treatise on the
Hyleg in the horoscope and on the influence of the sun as life-giver.
Europe received its civil isation from the east and also the science

of astrology as we already saw. From Greece and Ita ly it penetrated
into the other countri es of Europe.
One of the best-known Christian astrologers is Paul the Philosopher

(1: 850)
'

Among the opes we find several students of astrology ; e.g.

Pope Sylvestre 992 Pope John XX and John XXI were keen
astrologers.

“
Thomas Aquinas says : The celestia l bodies are the Cause of all that

takes place in this sub-lunar world . They influence the human a ctions
directly, but not every action caused by them is inevitable ”

. (Summa ,

Q uaest XV, art. V).
Further the famous Albertus Magnus, bishop and architect who wrote

a symbol-system which is held in high honour with Freemasons. He
“

says a . o. : All t hat nature and art produces is driven by celestial
powers. The signs in the sky and the celestial bodies existed before
al l other created things and therefore influence all that came into existence

”
a fter them, etc.
We may mention : Roger Ba con, Guido Bena ti, court-astrologer to

Frederick II . And Petri Abano or Francisco della S tabili, friend to Dante ,
’

J ohn de Luna , Cardina l Peter d Ailly (1350
“

Dante, whose words : Only follow your star, the haven of glory
awai ts you are well k “

nown. In another passage he says : Astrology
is the most sublime , the noblest science, withou t any faul ts.

Giordano B runo, Ruysbroeck, J a cob Boehme and Sp inoza , believed in
astrology. Further Hieronymus de Manfredi, professor of medicine at the
university of Bologna (i 1460) who a .o. combined astrology and medicine .



Johann S tdffler, professor of mathema ti cs at Tilbingen, computed the
exact da te of his death, which was to take place by an accident . By
inviting fri ends and staying qu i etly at home , he tr ied to evade the
possibil ity of an accident. In a d ispute, however, wishing to prove his
arguments, he went to a high book-shelf, to seize a folio-volume ,
he fel l and got a deadly wound.

We '

may mention the names of Melanchton and Johann Muller . The
former wrote a . o. a preface to a work of the astrologer Schonez and
delivered lectures on astrology.

Tycho dc Brahé ( 1546—160 1) tried to ra ise astrology to a religion.

”
H “
e says The stars ru le the lot of man, but God ru les the stars.
He was however not blind to the abuse, made of astrology.

Paracelsus studied especia l ly the influence of the planets on the
vegetable and mineral kingdom and discovered a large number of
medicines, by comparing the microcosmos (man) to the macrocosmos
(our solar system), led by logic and intu ition.

Keppler, the famous astronomer was an astrologer as well . It is
universally known how he predicted to Wa llenstein, at that time young
and unknown, his future glory . He predicted several deta ils concerning
his career, the enemies he wou ld make , his eagerness for fame and

glory, his marriage and financial circumstances and the exact day of
Wal lenstei ’

n s death.

Of William Lil ly, the well-kwown London astrologer it is known
that he foretold the great London fire in 1666. His astrological works
are still be ing studied.

Pico de M irandola , a fierce opponent of astrology, gave at his death
the most striking proof of the tru th of astrology, for he died at the exact
hour that the astrologers had predicted.

Dr. John B u tler, another opponent of astrology, who in order to be
able to Oppose it with more success and to show its weak points,
took up the study of astrolo y , changed tactics after that study,
viz. instead of attacking astrogogy as he original ly intended to,

he wrote a book to show the tru th of astrology.

Professor Max M ii ller once said, that many of our greatest men of
intellect studied astrology , but tha t the majority of them never expressed
their opinion on that point for fear of bein ranked with the quacks in
this l ine, the so-cal led astrologers and t e fortune-tellers.

H anois Bacon, baron of Veru lam, one of the greatest minds of his
time , believed in planetary influences, just like Isaac Newton, the great
researcher and thinker. He defended astrology against the astronomer
Halley by saying “

: I have studied the subject, Mr. Halley, you have
"

not " Newton never expressed his opinion on things he wasnot certa in
about. His great caution in this direction is aswell-known ashis enormous
scienti fic merits.
Of the German astrolo ers we may mention J . W. Pfaff. He vehe

mently protested against ge neglect of astrology and wrote



9

on Napol e ’

on s death, which was to coincide with a conjunction ofMars
and Saturn (May, 5th,

Leibnitz studied astrology and believed in it. That Goethe, Shakespeare ,

and also e.g. Sir Wa lter Scott be lieved in astrology isnot to be doubted .

“
Va lentin Weigelius, inhis Ast

”
rology Theologized (1649) ca lls astrology

the light “
of Nature ; it comprises everything, a ll sciences, arts, branches

of knowledge , qual ities and conditions of body and spirit and further
all conditions and occurrences in the Universe. Everything takes its
origin in the planets, and according to our using or abusing the influences,
we feel them to be good or bad. He says that astrology and religion
ought to go hand in hand and that the study of the Macrocosmos (the
Unive “

rse) as well as of the Microcosmos (man) is meant by it. What
is outside us in our surroundings is a lso in us and the expression :
“
a wise "

man rules his stars, does not a l lude to the stars in theMacro
cosmos, but to those in the Microcosmos. The sky of the Macrocosmos
with its perpetua l revolution corresponds exactly to the inward sky of
the Microcosmos. The last is, as it were , a microscopic reflect ion of
the first in all its changes as well .
It would be easy to enrich this l ist with a large number of names

of enl ightened thinkers who all studied astrology, but for my purpose
the above-mentioned names will su ffi ce .

Is it astonishing that he who has fixed his opinion by more or less
thorough study and research, compares the general public to a colour
blind man, who is positive that red and green are the selfsame colour ?
Those who ignore the influence of the planets, without preceding

thorough research, are simply gu i lty of pedantry 1) seeing that they,

prefer their immature, rash judgment, founded on tradition only, to that
of great thinkers, who throu hout al l ages have devoted their l ives to
the inqu iry after the effect 0gpowers of nature littl e known as yet.

,

We say once more , investiga te and you wil l find the truth of it affirmed
in your own life.

It wou ld be highly interesti ’

ng to collect particu lars, at the registrars
of people who were born at exactly the same time and the same place .
If the data of births were correct, one wou ld find that such l iveswere
remarkabl e in the ir similar ity.

In history severa l cases of this kind are known, among which the
following characteristic example :
In a paper of 1820 is mentioned the death ofSamuel Hennings, who

was born on June 4th 1738, at the same moment as King G eorge III,
and at the same place, St. Martin. He came into business in October

1) Among these we may count prof. Franz Cumo
a campa i against astrolo v

, ut down in his work
”

the G s and Romans. ge ases his work on the
p ”
oint of Astrology is, of course, a bel ief.
Wrong, fessor l The starting-point of Astrology is observation. If the basis of

a work is f se , we may leave the conclusion out of account.



10

1760, when George III mounted the throne. He was married on Sept.
8th, 1761 just l ike King George , and after both l ives had gone quite
parall el , both died on January 29th 1820 , at the same hour . They

'

had
the same number of children, of the same sex.

The Laws of Karma and Reincarnation.

Of these two laws, which, according to Theosophy ru le the Universe
and therefore man, a brief explanation is desirable.
We give in a few words the leading idea of these two laws, because

they Spread some light on the cause and the substance of the planetary
influences. For the study of astrology it is absolutely unnecessa ry that
one believes in reincarna tion. Astrology needs no foundation of belief,
astrology only asks thorough inqu iry and this is inevitably followed by
“believi ” “

ng ( knowing I know a number of men who do not believe
in reincarnation, yet nevertheless are convinced astrologers, though, in
my opinion, they will a fter continued study acknowledge both these laws.

The law of Karma 1) is not l ikely to be a stumbling block to any
one. What rational being does not accept the inexorable law of cause

and effect? We see the proofs of it da ily, round us.

Reinca rna tion is difficu lt to prove , one can become convinced of
the truth of this law by logical reasoning only ; for what somebody else
thinks to have seen or experienced of former l ives, is no proof for us

personal ly.

The Law of Karma or of cause and effect, teaches that every action,

every thought, carries its inexorable consequence with it ; and forman,

this consequence, this reaction, can be shown in the present or in a

following earthly existence . So he creates, in his present life, the con

dition of the fu ture , and the conditions of the present are the product
of his actions in former earthly lives.

Man, the individual sou l , the Ego 2) is, after a certain period born
1) The w “

ord Ka rma means action which wil l later on become clear when
we speak abou t the meaning of the E] aspect .

2 Wha t is the Ego?
e occul t science tel ls us that the Ego, the I the Higher Se lf, all of them

names for the same Principle is the God who lives in man ; speaks when the
soul acknowledges to be an I ; in other words, it is the Divine spark in us,withou t,
however , being God himself.

Dr. R. Steiner says as to this : thatwhich recedes themisunderstanding
that the occu l t science asserts tha t the I 18 one with od , is likely to arise. But It
does not assert at a ll, that the I is God , bu t that it is of the same na ture and the

‘

same substance as God . Does anybody assert that a drop of water taken from the
sea is the sea , when he says that that drop is of the same substance as the sea ?
If one likes to use a comparison, one can say that the I is related to God , as the
drop is to the sea . Man can find something divine in himself, because his inner
substance is derived from that which is divine.



anew in a ma teri a l body, which latter serves him as an instrument for
observation and action, to have experiences which he cannot learn
on the higher astral and mental planes. This being born again ought
not to be mixed up with transmigra tion of souls, of which is said that
a human soul can pass into a lower creature . There is no regression,

but continuous evolu tion. We see this everywhere in nature. Man is
born as man, and remains man, though in his former periods of evolu
tion he had to go through the minera l plant and animal condition,

which does not mean that he was a minera l , a plant, or an animal .
There are higher, no lower conditions to be reached by him ; except in
very rare cases. We must go a long with the current of universal evo
lution on earth and we can only delay our own evolution, in spiritual
and moral sense , by our thoughts and actions, but check it, we cannot.
We shal l see presently how we , by means of astrology, become able
to take our evolution in hand , so that we , instead of being stragglers,
get more and more in the front rows.

Every man has severa l weak points in his character and he feels
intuitively that it is his moral duty to take up the hatchet against these
fau lts, which, as occultism teaches, began for the greater part in former
incarnations when he knew less of the cosmic laws than now . However
low man may be mora l ly, there is something in him which tells him
what is good or bad, however mu ch the conceptions of good and bad
may differ with the many races and nations ; for until man attains
Perfection, these conceptions are only relative. His standpoint in evo

lution points out to him the correct place where he has to be and that
standpoint , combined with the good and bad consequences created in
former l ives, determine his place and ru le of conduct in this incarnation.

We usually speak of good and bad Karma , though the terms har
monious (A) and inharmonious karma woul d be better. There can

be no question of bad, because a im and final resu lt are harmony.

So at a certain time , man becomes conscious of his duty io try and
conquer his lower nature with all its fau lts and bad habits, unti l he no
longer is the slave , but becomes the master. According to his su ccess
in this, he not only becomes gradual ly the ru ler of his own destiny,
but also, in time, he obta ins the mastery of the mineral , vegetable and
animal kingdom and of the forces of nature which play a part in them .

But in order to become the master of nature , he must first have con

quered himself , i . e. he must be able to look upon his lower nature
the non-self, unselfishly as that which is transitory and so subservient
to the higher self, which is constant, universa l the Ego.

This is the final purpose of our earth-evolution and whether we
want or not we must go a long with this earthly growth. Aswe have seen,

we can co-operate and Oppose. In the first case we bring ourselves in
harmony with the Cosmos, i.e. the Source of all l ife , in the last we
shut this Source off to ourselves and that means disharmony in the
functions of our physi ca l body, disturbances in our thinking, feeling,



12

and will , and at length it means the death of our physi ca l instrument
our materia l body.

With the death of the material body man is deprived of the organs
of observa tion and action on the physica l p lane, and so thismatter disap
pears from his sphere of observation, he wakes in a world, previously
invisible to him, the astra l world , which permeates the materia l world .

The astra l world therefore is in the same place, but invisible to the
organs of his material body.

He dwells now in the astral , or emotional body, W Ith astral organs for
Observa tion. He a lready possessed this astra l body during his earthly
existence, but he cou ld not then consciously make use of it, because
the material body thwarted him. The duration of his abode in the astra l
world, with its various spheres, is determined by the moral standpoint
which be occupied during his physica l existence and at the end of
it he a lso dies on this plane and he becomes conscious on the menta l
p lane, which permeates both the astra l and the physical sphere
and so is in the same place. His body or vehicle is here the menta l
body which was already present dur ing his earthly and astral l ife ,
but undeveloped . In this menta l sphere , the tru e abode of man, he
assimu lates the experi ences of the two preceding states ; and these are
transmuted into characteristi cs and potential ities, which combined wi th
those obta ined in former l ives, must incarnate with him in a new body
when the time has arrived.

So man has three bodies : the physica l, the astra l and the menta l
which correspond with the three worlds : the physical , the astra l , and
the mental worlds, which we therefore may regard as the three bodies
of the ea rth.

It fol lows that man has already in his earthly existence a body for
each of these three worlds.

Thus man (the Ego) is many times born in a different physical body,
with long intervals, during which on earth the conditions change con

tinuously. Thus does he undergo many-sided experiences.

The laws of Karma and Reincarnation rule our whole l ife ; withou t them
we cannot imagine a ra tional explanation of the different phases in our

existence , nor answer the question why one is born in the deepest
wretchedness with a bad character, a sick body, in surroundings where
any moral progress seems impossible, whereas another sees the light
in luxurious surroundings, which offer him all opportuniti es to develop ;
while at the same time he enjoys a hea lthy body and an excellent
chara cter. Are there greater contrasts imaginable and is there a reaso

nable explanation to be found withou t accepting the inexorable, but
just law of cause and effect and the law of reincarnation ?

But this is not the place to dwell a t length on these things, for
further study I refer to works on Theosophy. A few words, however,
on these important points in question I thought necessary, because , in
my opinion, they are to a certa in degree inseparable from astrology ;






14

andmore into the background. It is a fact that at present we are rapidly
progressing in Opposite direction. The anathema , which suppressed this
knowledge for ages, seems to be lifted .

The Aspects.

Aspect means : view, appearance ; here literal ly, the way in which
the planets look at each other, i.e . the phases of the planets.

We have to regard the aspects of the planets as the x-rays of the
Cosmos which shine through us and bring the weak places of our
characters temporarily to l ight. It is, as it were, a warning that something
in one direction or another shou ld be improved.

How is it that a certa in relation between aspects, e.g. an opposition
of the Sun to Satu rn, causes a heavy feeling of depression with one,

whereas with another it passes unnoticed ? Because the former was
born at a moment when e .g. the same Opposition or an aspect of equal
effect took place in the Universe , which caused his bodies to be respon
sive to the depressing and l imiting Satum-influence . His physica l ,
astral and mental bodies are, as it were, tuned to the key which was
then in the Cosmos. If the same tone , or a con-sonant of it, recurs to
the atmosphere, the bodies react and the influence of Saturn is felt as
depression or in general , l imitation on the physica l plane as well as in
our thoughts and feelings. As this rate of vibation keeps altering through
the rapidly changing positions of the planets and the twelve signs of
the Zodiac in regard to the earth, it is evidently necessary to know
the exact moment of birth, in order to make our ca lcu lations accurately.

So we must imagine that all that is born, al l that is brought into
being, receives, at the moment of coming into existence or of birth, the
impress of our planetary system as it is a t tha t very moment, and as it
is in relation to the spot on earth where this birth takes place. This is
tru e not only for man, but a lso for animal , plant and mineral , and it is
tru e as well for a ll that we begin, for every new activity or enterprise,
for every new thought which is born at a certain point of time . Hence
we see how important it is to select the correct time in starting new
enterprises.

Not that one can make a success of something wrong or evil by
choosing the best time to commence ; the statement which precedes
merely says that by choosing a bad time one accumu lates di fficu lties.

In choosing the right time one goes along with the current, so to say,

and therefore rema ins in harmonious condition.



S trong and Weak Natures.

Timorous people , the type who cross the bridge of adversity before
they reach it, had better leave the study of astrology to stronger cha
racters, because on these people the knowledge

”
of fu ture “

bad aspects
might have a paralysing effect . They lack the courage and strength to
struggle with their lower self, and by their fear they wou ld only streng
then the influence oi the planet. It is scarcely advisable to acquaint

”
such people with something regarding “

bad aspects in the fu ture . That
there are natures who cannot bear the tru th, is however, no reason to
withhold the tru th from those who are strong. On the contrary, the
knowledge of it is of incalcu lable use. The weaker ones, might also
derive force from it, i f they only thought of the good aspects which
are sure to come and will help them. Astrology teaches how long the
bad time shoul d last, and knowing that it is only a passing cloud, a
temporary darkening of the sun, they will ga in strength.

Among those who study some branch of occu lt sciences there are

many “
who say selfconsciously : Astrologica l influences cannot do any

thing to me l have outgrown them . To be sure, these people do
not real ise the ful l significance of their words and moreover they are

blind to their faults and foibles.

No one ever rose to the height of being above these influences / Even
the highest Ego, who incarnates on this earth of his own free will , has
submitted himself to limita tions. They influence all of us, the lowest as
well as the highest, but through the latter they will be expressed in
another, a more harmonious way, that is te difference . For him a lso,

however, it is of the greatest use to know when he will be subjected
to certain influences, when he will be best fitted for one kind ofwork ,
when for another. He will be able to use these influencesfor his benefit ;

“
for what else does the expressi ”

on : to ru le one’s stars signify but to
use the planetary influences in the right direction, for one’s benefit. The
influences tend to make us by certain old faults in our character
act in this way or the other but we need not give in slavishly, we may
rise above them . Therefore, is it not highly usefu l to be fore-wamed ?



The Cosmos.

Astrological ly speaking the Cosmos consists of the Sun (CD), the
Moon (D) and the planets Mercury (ii), Venus Earth Mars (d ),
Jupiter (Qt), Saturn (b) Uranus (131 ) and Neptune 2)
We do not take into account the Asteroids or Planetoids and the

Meteorites, because they do not influence present humanity perceptibly ;
neither the Comets, because we know so l ittl e of their influence . We
a lso neglect the moons of the various planets, the influence of which

'

1) Poolster _ Pole-star ; Keerkring Zu iderkru is Sou thern Cross ;
Equ ator des Hemels nator of the Heavens ; Ecliptica Ecli tic.

2) In Holland the sym 1 0 is also used for Uranus ; and for eptune g.



17

is not to be taken into account. Our moon only forms an exception :
by her short d istance from the earth, and especial ly because she was
one with the earth before her separate existence, she influences it and
all that is on it, very strongly.

Our whole planetary system moves in retrograde d irection through
the twelve signs of the Zodiac, which l ike a gigantic ring encirclesour
Cosmos with numerous other solar-systems. All these solar-systems
revolve round one Centra l Sun, which is supposed to be in the con

stellation Pleyades (Alcyone).
°

Our solar system wants years to revolve 360 through the
12 signs of the Zodiac. This is called a cosmic year. Our planetary
system is now in Aquarius which sign it has recently entered, and

2
where it consequently will rema in 2 160 years.

12
This movement is in Opposite direction to the order of the 12 signs

of the Zodiac and is cal led in astronomy the Precession (i . e . backward
movement) Of the Equ inox. The velocity of this retrograde movement

'

is about 50 a year.

As a ll planets revolve round the sun and we Observe them from the
'

earth, we see the sun and the planets successively pass through the 12
d ifferent signs, and with greater velocity when they are closer to the
sun ; in the order in which the planets are placed above . The moon,

however, surpasses the fastest moving planet (Mercury). It does not
only move with the earth once in a year round the sun, but has a

revolution of its own round the earthwhich takesonly $ 28 days.When
the planets are being treated, these veloci ties will be spoken Of at
greater length.

There is a lso . an appa rent movement of the 12 signs of the Zodiac
aswell asofthe planets and the moon to know , the movement caused
by the revolution of the earth round its axis in 24 hours. Through this
revolution round the axis, the whole sphere , passes in 24 hours each
point ’

of the earth s surface and thus every two hours (on an average)
there will arise another sign of the Zodiac on the eastern horizon.

For some readers a short explanation of certa in terms, used in cos

mology, will not be superfluous ; for we have to use these terms
repeatedly, if we want to do without unnecessary definitions.

The celestia l equa tor is an imaginary circle drawn at the heavens
(round the earth), in the produced part ofand paral lel to the earth equator.

The eclip tic is an imaginary circle drawn at the heavens round the
earth, which intersects the celestia l equator at an angle of In
this plane Of the ecl iptic move the planets including sun and moon.

With a deviation of only a few degrees north and south of it, the
planets move in the plane of the ecliptic , and so it is possible that two
p lanets at certain times seem to be in the same place in the heavens
(conjunction), and at other times form certa in angles(aspects)with the earth.

2



18

To this angle formed by the ecliptic and the equator, we owe the
seasons in the temperate zones and the monsoons in the tropics.

The deviation north and sou th of the ecliptic is cal led northern and
southern declina tion. When two or more planets have the same decli~
nation, no matter whether one is north, the other south, or both the
same declination, they form also an aspect with each other and this
aspect is ca lled a para l lel . The calcu lating of the aspects is the foundation
of the astrological technics.

We take the earth as the centre of the cosmos in our calcu lations
and the astrological tables for calcu lating the planetary positions and
those of the Zodiacal signs are founded on this. So that we work
geocentric astrology (Gea earth), in contradistinction to hel iocentr ic
astrology , which considers the sun (helios) as centre when making
cal cu lations. The latter is to be looked upon as only an attempt to see

the astrological influences from another point of View ; it has given
but unsatisfactory resu lts so far. Perhaps it will promise fair for the fu ture .
It is a ltogether logical that man, on account of his being a part of

the earth, takes the earth as centre when calcu lating astrological influences.

The astronomers often reproach the astrologers for doing this they
assert that the latter fol low the old Ptoloma ic System, whereas Coper
nicus clearly proved that the sun is the centre round which al l planets
move . What does it matter a fter all , if only this is taken into account
in the calcu lations. Every one looks upon himself personally as the
centre of a ll that surrounds him ; which is natura l to him, and he is
also prone to do so with his planet, the earth, however much this
d isagrees with the phenomena his physica l eyes witness.

Astrology is, as it were the psychology of astronomy, and just as
a vast field of psychology l1es fallow, so it is the case with astrology.

Both promise fa ir for the future.
In astrology we use the so-ca lled siderea l time, to which we have

to reduce the loca l time for our calculations. If we did not do so, we
1) Aquator equatorfEcliptik i ecliptic.



shou ld make a mistake of about 4 minutes for every 24 hours. Forwhile
the earth revolves once , the sun moves forward abou t one degree in
the Zodiac ; so in order to see from the earth the sun exactly in the
Zenith or, put otherwise , in the merid ian, the earth has to revolve one

degree more than which lenghtens the day 4 minu tes.

That is why the so-called astronomica l day is not 24 hours, but 24
hours 4 minutes, whereas the siderea l day is 24 hours exactly. So
that 6 hours usual time 6 hours 1 minu te sidereal time .

In the astrologica l planet-tables (Ephemeris) the position of the
planets is given for noon at Greenwich and for every day at noon and
at Greenwich the siderea l time can be found. This will cause trouble
only in the beginning. For all places on the meridian of Greenwich we
have only to take into account the difference in time before or after
noon ; but for places on another degree of longitu de also the difference
in t1me with Greenwich must not be overlooked. Every degree difference
of longitude makes a difference of 4 minutes in time . In places east Of
Greenwich, i.e. places with eastern longitude , it is later (the sun rises
there earl ier) and in those with western longitude it is earlier. E.g. San
Francisco, which l ies on abou t 120° western longitude has a di fference
of time of 4’ X 120 8 hours with Greenwich. So when it is noon at
Greenwich, it is as early as 4 a .m. in San-Francisco. (See example,
cal cu lation of a horoscope , page
For inserting the 12 zodiacal signs in the horoscope we must take

into account the la ti tude of the place (distance from the equator), seeing
that the signs rise more slanting according to the increase of distance
from the equator, so that a certa in irregu larity arises. W e need however
not trouble about this, because the so-ca lled tables of houseshave been
drawn up for different latitudes.

The image of the Cosmos, or as it is called macrocosmos in contra~
distinction to the microcosmos (man), is impressed in a ll that exists in
nature , so in the human body as well ; hence the name microcosmos,
meaning cosmos on a smal l scale .

We sha ll see presently that each of the 12 signs of the Zodiac
corresponds to definite parts of our body . According to the different
signs the planets are placed in at the moment of birth, and according
to the positions of the zodiaca l signs at the moment in relation to our

earth, the body of the native is shaped .

We must observe here that it is not so much the signsofthe Zodiac
which have that influence , as the parts of the heavens in which these
signs are seen. The 12 signs were in exactly the places, respect ively,
in the time of Ptolomy, the father of astrology, but since that time the
zodiacal sings have shifted a l ittle (abou t 30 degrees) and this isno longer
ava ilable . The astr. ephemeris takes this into account and therefore the astro
nomical ephemeris points out other planets places than the astrologica l

,



Fate and Free-will.
(Harmony, D isharmony.)

The Sun is the symbol 1) of individua lity and its position in the
horoscope indicates the nature of the limitations imposed on the inner
man, the Ego. The sun, therefore , indicates the rea l man, who shou ld

'

gu ide and ru le the lower d ispositions, that which is anima l . It is the
symbol of the will , Of the heart, and is positive . It is l imited in its
expression and Opposed by the persona l ity which is symbolised by the
negative and receptive moon. The moon absorbs the influences of all
planets that form an aspect with it and these influences combined with
the signs of the Zodiac which produced them , form the l imitations ofour
personal ity and these limitations hinder us from giving expression to that
which the sun expresses in our horoscope . The moon symbolises the intel
lect. Only when intellect and heart cooperate , we might expect harmony
of spirit, sou l and body.

In the horoscope , the body is represented by the ascendant i .e. the
sign which at birth is rising upon the eastern horizon, and the three
(D , Q) , combined we find back in Mercury It is the mission of

6, the symbol Of mental thinking, to bring home that which the Cosmos
sets to be learned. Not before we have fulfilled that through 8, the
moon and the ascendant can no longer darken and l imit our real Being .

Then the Q will ru le 3) and whereas in the D plays the chief part .
In I) the cross is placed over the j) , i.e. the sou l is l imited in its expres

sion by matter. b is the symbol of l imitation and where Saturn is in bad
aspect to sun or moon, this l imiting influence is expressed as melan
cholia , fear , care , coldness etc. This is especially the case when the
moon and Saturn are in bad aspect. A good aspect of sun or moon
and Saturn is a great help . Saturn is the planet Of Karma and where
that is not overcome, no rising is possible . Saturn is the purifying power
which possesses us and works in us, before it is given to us to l ift

’

our consciousness. Nobody gets to that without Saturn s gu idance. It is
“

the Wa tcher on the Threshold symbol ised in the B ible by Satan.

In astrology it is called “ “
the greater evil” Opposed .to Mars, the lesser

evil” , symbol ised in the B ible by the Devil . So we see that evil is
relative and serves to make us wiser by hard experiences and prepare
us for a higher state of consciousness.

The vehement appearance, therefore , of the depressing and l imiting
Saturn-influence in anyone’s l ife is usual ly a token that the time for
higher spiritual development has come . It is, as it were , a feeling Of
home-sickness for the rea l Home . Man is born at the moment when
the positions of the planets and signs are in exact accordance to his
Karma and character and that point of time is in fact a lready defined
by . the moment when the sperm comes into contact with the ovum .

This moment is cal led the epoch.

'

1) Symbology wi ll be spoken of at greater length later on.






freedom therefore proves to be the greatest degree of being voluntari ly
bound to the Creator. Freewill of man depends a ltogether on his mora l
standpoint in evolu tion.

Everythi “
ng in the Cosmos happens along fixed laws. Is there no
one might ask.

Chance is within certa in l imits of course — the d irect consequence
of m ’

an s personal freedom , his freedom to leave his programme .
The evolution Of the Cosmos moves a long lines traced out by the

Logos, and goes its unchangeable course . To the l ittle persona l will of
each man is given precisely as much freedom as is consistent with the
one absolu te will of the Logos ; in as far as it is not contradictory
to the harmony of the Cosmos. And by our weak personal will we cal l
“ ”
the chances into existence , which however at the same time become
our greatest source Of learning, for by these chances we clash and gain
experience .

Chance becomes therefore a condition for growth of freedom ; for
by the sl ight chances we give rise to, through our actions, we learn to
know our lower self better and to overcome it and hence arrive at

grea ter freedom.

The freewill of the majority is in a bad pl ight, so that we can safely
assert that the greater part of humanity is not ab le to give a definite
direction to its l ife , which simply “

is l ived . B lindfold they fol low their
Karma and the attemps they make to take the helm in their own hands,

are too weak to procure a lasting resu lt.
Especially those who are strongly under the influence of the moon,

are apt to let fate have its course, and many planets in watery signs
make it worse sti ll . (See watery, earthy, a iry and fiery signs, page

The greater part of the planets, especia lly the ascendant, sun or

moon, in a fixed sign (will be more gone into later), indicates a

stronger development of free-will .
A so~cal led bad planet 1, ) especial ly Mars in the Meridian and in

unharmonic aspect to sun and moon by the great impu lsiveness which
is the consequence of this position, will make of man more or less the
plaything Of circumstances. The other aspects to G) and D may change
this a great deal .
What precedes proves clearly that by struggle only the final goa l
harmony can be reached.

In regard to this we may ask of ourselves : Did the harmony which
now manifests itself a lways rul e the Cosmos? Has this harmony been
conquered perhaps at the expense of strife ?

The aswer to this cannot but run decidedly in the affirmative . Here
too harmony resulted from stri fe . That this harmony, however, is not

1 “
) It shou ld ever be borne in mind that the exp ”

ressions good p lanet or
“ ” ’

and bad p lanet or ma lefic, are only used for shortness sake, as is the genera l
usage , and these words are not to be taken in their ordinary signi ficance. The same
regarding the expressions good and bad aspect, affliction. etc.



yet absolute even now, can easily be shown bymeans of the discoveries
of astronomy.

We must suppose that the harmony in the Cosmos arose by the
rejection of inharmonious elements, i.e. that the number of planets has
been much larger than now, and that those that had very eccentric
paths and thus threatened to disturb the equ i librium, have either changed
their elliptic path in a parabol ic or hyperbol ic one by the disturbing
a ttraction of other planets and so have been removed from our Cosmos,
or united themselves with their origin because they came through
d isturbances too much under the domineering attraction of the sun and
a t length flung themselves on it, a fter having revolved round - it in
narrower and narrower spirals.

Is not this most beau tiful ly symbol ised by the bible story of the
Prodigal Son ?

In this way the inharmonious elements have been gradual ly removed
from our Cosmos and harmony resulted. We see that just the
whi ch have the greatest volume and therefore wou l d be the most
d angerous to the others 2

, 1 and b, show the leasts eccentricity in their
paths, whereas the Asteroids which are to be found in great numbers 1)
between the paths ofmand d have very eccentric paths and by this
mark the disharmony in the Cosmos. The disharmony, however is of
too little importance to cause disturbancy in the course of the other
p lanets.

We have to regard them as pieces of a planet that Keppler a lready
surmised between fit and d on account of the large gap which was
there as regards the d istances of the planets.

There is still another disharmonic fa ctor in our Cosmos, viz . the
Comets and Meteorites. The latter show in the paths of the former.
The Comets are the gypsies of the Cosmos ; they have very eccen

tric paths and many move far beyond the bounds of our planetary
system ; many never return having been attracted by the sunof another
planetary system.

Part of the comets, viz . the greater part Of those whi ch move in
the same direction round the sun as the planets do, may have taken .

their origin in the sun, just like the planets. Those Of the other group ,
however, which move in opposite dire ction round the sun, we must
regard as strange intruders, that rejected by other planetary systems in
space , were a ttracted by our sun and so make an attempt now to come
in h 2

armony with our planetary system. )
The swarms of Meteori tes, among which the Perseides (in

and the Leonides (in November) are the best known, appear y

1) At present there are already abou t 750 of them found, among which
a re beyond the pa ths of Jupiter and Mars: Ceres, the largest, has a surface
equa l to thrice the su rface of Great-Britain. The sma llest has a d 1ameter of only
j : 10 miles.

2 “
) See the w

”
orks of Dr. Carl du Prel e.g. The Strife 1n the Hgavm ,



great numbers, more than a hundred of these swarms have been
counted bu t by their sl ightness compared to the planets, they cannot
cause disturbance . A great many flop down on our earth, under the
influence of its attraction.

How far the comets can bring abou t disturbances is not knownwith
certa inty. The astrologers know that they usua lly bring us no harmony,
though nothing definite about them is known in astrology .

So we see that even in our Cosmos there reigns no absolute har
mony and asman is the image of the Cosmos, the microscOpic reflex
of it as it were , it is evident that for him no absolute harmony can he
meant for the present, seeing that he moreover produ ces no end of
disharmony in al l kind of manner.

From the astronomical discoveries we may learn still more regarding
our fu ture .
We know that the movement of the earth (and of the other planets)

round the sun is not really elliptical but spira l shaped , i .e . with every
revolution round the sun does the earth approach this centre more and
more, and the time must come when it will re-unite itself with the sun
whence it sprung.

We must a lso apply this to man and the other kingdoms of nature
that are in evolution. The goal is : re-union with the Source of all l ife
and consciousness, t e-union with the Logos which manifests itself
through the four kingdoms of nature (Man, Animal , Plant, Minera l).

Something about Symbology.

The houses in every horoscope represent the physical body, and the
material circumstances of life ; the signs of the Zod ia c, the personality,
and the planets as representatives of the Sun, the individua lity i.e. the
higher, unchangeable man apart from his changeable persona lity and
his changeable body. The higher man rises in mora l development, the
less he comes under the influence of the houses and the signs. We
real ise from this how necessary it is to know the moral standpoint Of
the native somewhat when judging his horoscope. We may however
word this a l ittl e different, thus,
for the houses, the body for the signs, the sou l, viz. the feeling

and the lower mind (D) ; and for the planets, the sp irit and the higher
mind (O is the symbol of the Infinite). These three together
form man, or the cosmos (Q ). This sign is a lso used for the earth and
for the Part of Fortune in the horoscope. G) is the symbol of the
sun ; furtherrnore of the Ego, the individual ity , the will .

D is the symbol of the moon, moreover of the personality, of the
sou l the passions and the feelings and is also the symbol of



25

69 The sign Of the earth or of man ; we can regard this as consistin
Of the infinite spiritual principle (0 ) and the material principle
combined in one, i . e. as the spiritual principle, that which is
divine, crucified in matter.

We can now understand the symbols of the planets and of their
connection with the mind on which they a l l have there special
influence , viz . in
d or 3 (Mars) that which is higher, spirit, is ru led by that which is

lower, matter. Impu lsive thinking.

9 (Venus) Spirit ru les matter, by the infinite love the cross is
overcome. Rhythmic thinking.

b (Saturn) the intellect (D) is overshadowed by matter, hence bra in
thinking, l imited (bound), dependent on matter, therefore egoistic.
Concentra tion.

91 (Jupiter) thinking is risen above the l imitation of matter and so

is enriched by imagination. Thus Satu rn rises to the planet of intu ition
as soon as matter has been made submissive .
In 6 (Mercury) we find all symbols combined. It 13 the symbol of the

winged messenger of the gods, the symbol Of wisdom. It represents
the love of the planet Venus, overshadowed by the intellect (D), which
can work freely, withou t being veiled by ma tter.

The unmanifested Godhead is always symbol ised by the circle (0 )
and the manifesting Godhead (the Loges) by the o (dot). Hence the
complete symbol of the sun (6 ) signifies the unmanifested Godhead
which out of itself manifests as the higher man. (The Logos, Christ the
Son.) However high man may rise , he remains always a manifestation
of the Logos and so we might accept for the man who at the end of
the earth-evolution reaches perfection and so hasovercome the limitation
laid upon him by his physical , his astra l and his mental bodies, the
symbol a dot surrounded by a double circle i.e. the perfect manifestation
in perfectness

“
. Radiating circle” is the symbol for electric radiant.
“
Shaded circle” is the symbol for magnetic absorbing.

A is the symbol for the fier -
y element, a ctive, mascu line .

V wa ter-element passive, feminine .
a ir-element condu ctive .
ea rth-element limitating.

chemica ls reacting on acids.

51 a lkal ine oxidizing.

69 of the eternal movement m the Cosmos, also repre
sented by >X< and by
ER the Swastika . This symbol has so many other meanings that volu

mes have been written on it.
g Caput draconis d ’

ragon s head), North-node .
’

Cauda draconis (dragon s tai l) -
, South node.



’

The influence of the dragon s head is supposed to be felicitous, that
’

of the dragon s ta il as unfelicitous.

The usage still existing in many parts of fixing a horse
-shoe over the

door by way of talisman aga inst bad influences, takes its origin in
this sign.

'

V I) The horns of the ram ; the upspring waters Of the Foun
tain ; the ou tstretched arms of the Chr ist ; the head .

8 The Bu ll Taurus bearing upon his head the lunar symbol ; the
throa t and neck.

11 The porta l of the Tempel ; the twins ; the two lungs and arms.

5 The divine germ clothed in a dense vehicle beginning to unfold
and evolve ; the breasts.

'

Q The awakening into a ctivity of the latent force of the serpent ;
the hea rt.

m) This symbol combines the dark serpent m with the vibrating rod
Of Hermes 1 , the active agent which restrains and ru les the senses ;
the bowels.

The horizon with the sun-disc sinking beneath it ; the balance ;
the reins.

“1 The dark serpentine, symbol ed the reproductive process ofman ;
the genera tive organs.

,2‘ The striving arrow, the change of consciousness from the vehicle
of desire to that Of the higher mind ; the thighs.

X The dark serpentine of the persona lity , no longer in rapid motion
as in m yet control led by the stilled, rod of Hermes, the knees, bones.

The white serpent placed above the dark serpent ; the action
of the l iving waters transmutes the lower into the higher and at-one,

ment is achieved, the lower legs, blood circu la tion.

3c The fishes, the sign that as two arches connects heaven and
earth ; the feet, the tissues.

1 “
) See v. Stone The Pa thway of the Sou l



The Horoscope.
Sou th an le.

Mid-heaven (M. C. Merid ian.

Zenith.

rth angle.

Nadir.

B irth-H ’
oroscope for the Hague 52° 5 Northern Latit ’

ude, 4
° 13 East of Greenwich.

May. 16. 1913. a .m.

A horoscope is actually the position of the 12 zodiacal signs, sun,

moon and planets, at the moment of birth, and with respect to the
earth diagrammed. It represents in short : the macrocosmic image of
the microcosmos (man), i.e. the image of the macrocosmos as the man
that is born at the moment exactly, reflects.

In the diagram the ou tward circles represent the eclip tic with the
12 signs of the Zodiac, inserted in it.
The centre of the circle is occupied by the ea rth, resp . by the na tive

’

for whom the horoscope is cast. The radi i divide the circle into
the 12 houses, and are drawn of the same length in the diagram
but only at the equator being so. The points where these rad i i



touch the circumference , are called angles or cusps of the houses.

The horizonta l , thicker l ine represents the equa tor ; with to the left
of it the rising point or ascendant (the east), and to the right the setting
point or descendant (the west).
The upper ha lf Of the circle is fO1 the planets which at birth were

above the horizon, the lower half for those which were below the
horizon at that moment.
The vertica l , thicker l ine , called merid ian, divides the horoscope in

an eastern and a western hal f which meet at the top in the Zenith, the
highest point Of the heavens, which is usually cal led M . C. (Medium
Coeli). It indicates the Sou th. At the bottom both halves meet in the
Nad ir often called I . C. (Imum Coeli), the North. These 4 points ar

, e

the 4 angles of the horoscope ; they are of very great 1mportance when
it is judged . We may regard the horoscope divided into 4 sectors by
the equator and the meridian with respect to the 4 seasons, viz :

Su mm er

West
(Descendant)

u tu mn

1 . Spring. Many planets in this part gives the native many Opport
unities to progress in l ife and assures him the help Of friends. This
sector represents you th.

2. Summer . Many planets in this sector indicates mu ch work to be
done in the second hal f of l ife. This part represents matu re age .

3. Au tumn. Many planets here points out that the principal work
begins at middle age, it gives a less happy life , less energy, and less
incl ination to get on.

4 . Winter or old age. According to their approaching to the ascendant ,
the planet ’

s influence increases, except when they are near the Nad ir,
in which point the influence is very strong. It fixes the thoughts on Old
age and on l ife a fter the death of the physical body.

Many planets above the earth birth by day is in general
favourable , l ife Offers many opportunities to the native to express himself.
Most of the planets under the earth birth during the night denotes
more latent qual ities that find no opportunity to manifest in their ful l force.
Planets placed in the angles, especia lly in M. C. and ascendant,

exercise an extremely strong influence on the character, the career, and
the bu ild of the body . It is mainly the ascendant which destines the






30

S
NO y “

. Si oo
bgl gn G d Manifestation Bad Manifestation

8 m Scorpio powerfu l, mystical haughty, suSpicious,
j ealous

9 ,2‘ Sagittarius philosophical , intu itive rebellious, restless
10 Z Capricorn persevering, serving slaving, plodding
l 1 Aquarius ideal istic chaatic

12 3c Pisces universal love mora l death

In colomns 5 and 6 an attempt is made to give approximately in
one word the character of te S ign, how it expresses itself in its most
perfect and in its most imperfect way. Between these extremes ofvery
high and very low expression numerous grada tions occur.

The following esoteric treatise on the signs of the Zodiac in relation
to each other, is taken from “

The Prophecy of the Zodiac”
“
How far into times immemorial the zodiacal signs and their names

go back , who shal l say ? Certa in it is that they, as idea , were born
together with and out of the human mind. It is not by accident that
man, struggling in this l ife, inwardly and ou twardly anxious, l ifts his
heart up to the stars which seem unmoved , inexorably fixed, untouched
by all that stirs down here . Indeed, rest and calm come back to him,

their qu iet and their fixedness make him qu iet and fixed. How is that ?
Does not man know that just as his wheel of l ife revolves from cradle
to grave , the planets do from coming into being till setting ? Does not
he know that their l ight is fire, their warmth glow , their movement a
speed that contains destruction ? How can such an unrest give him
rest ? Yea , all this man knows well enough, but above all , he,
looking at the stars from below , is conscious of the fixedness in their revo
lution, certa inty in their whizzing, law in their fieriness. The law which
bears all these things bears him a lso ; the law in movement and change,
in rising and setting, is his law of l ife and death as well .
This great thought that nothing proves to be chance , is the thought

which makes man qu iet when regard ing the starry-sky above him. And
that which he by day in the heat of the fight , in the cloudless blue of
the midday-sun cannot discover, only rises for his dark heart with
every light that stands out aga inst the black shadow of the night, with
every star that rises.

Is it wonderfu l that at the birth of man under the nightly sky of
“

history (Gen. for it had been evening andmorning, the sixth day
the thinker in him stood up from the dark chaos to seek the light ? Is
it wonderfu l that this man, approaching the stars in his spirit, stood sti ll ,
waking ? Is it wonderfu l that he bu i lt houses with roofs for the night,
wa lls with towers for the night ? Is it wonderfu l that he made his

1) By L. de Hartog-Meyjes from ‘fNieuwe Banen (New Paths) Sept. 191 1 .



dwellingplace in the midst of the stars and his chair between sun

and moon?
Somewhere the great heart must throb , which keeps all these

things moving "
And l ike the man of exact science, discovering law in a ll outward,

ha ppenings, as broad as daylight, knows himself to be a knower of
these laws, so do the wise ones of olden times fix their hearts on the
fixed signs of the nightly mystery, trying to find there and to
understand the inner ground and cause of all world-change .
The Great Heart they did not find it in na ture" Who could find

the cause of movement in movement ? But His throbbing they heard.

And what they learned from the great order of l ife was wisdom which
demonstrates itself in the kingdom of the spirit.
The wise ones saw the fixed signs and divided them and gave them

names and numbered them by dozens. The pious ones understood with
their hearts and ornamented their temples with the signs of the zodiac,
representing the ascent of the spirit from the pression of nature .
Thr ee were cal led divine : Aries, the Thinker ; Taurus, the Word ;

Gemini , the Sp irit.
Through these three was put Cancer, space, in order that there wou ld

be room for the birth of Leo, the burning heart of the world .

While thus Aries, Thought, has become Word in Taurus, and Action
“

in Gemini , spin l ike ”
a cloth space in Cancer, Leo, the Lion, the fiery

spirit elevates itself over the passive Virgo, Ma tter, Ma t r M
, e , ary the

Virgin. What is born out of her is Spirit and matter in one, Of two
kinds of births, of two kinds of sex. Libra , the Ba lance of sp irit and
ma tter is in equ i librium.

But innocence cannot be virtue , nor simplicity merit, man isonly
that which he has conquered. Near the innocence of Libra , man under
the green trees of his chi ldish play, shu ffles the serpent, the Sign Scorpio,

the Tempter. Libra , the ideal-man, born of the overshadowing of the
Spir it over the Virgina ] Matter is nothing but a beautifu l possibility, as
long as he is not tested. The Sp irit, therefore, leadsman in the wilderness
to be tri ed. Scorp io, the temp ter, is thus cal led the Sign of death as

well as of life . For he who fal ls for temptation goes down in the law
“

of dust unto dust. But he who stands, comes in the Sign of the new
l ife . For, l ike the serpent , stripping its skin , appears as newly-bom , so

does this Sign picture the dying of l ife a fter nature in order to beget
the other, the higher l ife after the spir it. He, who is tempted in Scorpio
must begin the fight with his own nature and desire .
For the next sign is that of Sagittarius, the Archer, often pictured as

a centaur. The upper-body that is thought, human ; the lower
body, that is desire, animal . With the arrow of thought he a ims
at the highest good, but his desire prevents him from virtually reaching
it. That is why he has to climb the mountain of hardships further. What
he saw in Sagittarius with the eye of spirit, he must now try to rea ch



32

with the foot of action. That means : not from afar he may shoot only
arrows of thought, thought which is not of Space, boundless and eternal ;
nay, with his will , with his whole energy he must follow that thought.

And so it is that we find the next sign grasped in Capricorn, the
Goat, which solitary and still climbs the mountains, higher and higher,
more and more difficu lt, ever lonelier. It is the man that must go and
realise what he saw.

But even that is not su fficient. He who mounts the mounta in top of
the Spirit, estranges from humanity , from the world, and on the heights,
which are deserted, he remains to himself a lone. He who keeps the
treasures of the Spirit to himself, knowing that there are only few
who expect sa lvation and peace of the mounta ins of solitude, misses
his calling.

Therefore the Sign that follows must be Aquarius, the W aterbearer,
the man who fa lls on his knees to pour out the pitcher fu l l of l iving
water, into the va lley at his feet down there.

And this water is the l ife-element for the fish, pictured in the next
S ign Pisces ; at the same time the sign, that as two arches, connects
heaven and earth. But a lso the sign of the cross, the Sign of dying off.
Thus the Sign Pisces turns and we get Aries, the Sign of the D ivine

(see above), a lso the Sign of Offering.

Everything animal , that remained in man, must be Offered as lamb
in the Temple of God. He, Whose Thought (which, as we saw , pre
cedes as His Advice every Word and Action of creation) ishigher than
our thoughts, He requ ires the Offering of an unsu llied
Which way soever we turn and re- turn the Zodiac , every time the

l ight of the eternal Truth revealed in Christ, shines on us.

Therefore, different from the above :
Leo is the burning Heart of the Father ; Virgo is the Virgin, Matter,

the Mother who receives the Son ; Libra is this Son himself in His
d ivine equanimity , weighed a fter the ba lance of the two natures ; Scorpio
is His temptation in the wilderness of birth-in~time ; Sagittarius is His
g lory which a ims high at the seat on the right-hand Of the Father ;
Capricorn is His steady course a long the road of suffering to glory on

the mountain of the cross ; Aquarius is the Sign Of the streamsof l iving
water, flowing from His most inward part .

All happenings in the dominion of the spirit, find themselves reflected
in the lower kingdoms, included the materia l plane , they are taken
part in as well by nature round us, as in our own innermost being .

The work of the Logos in his Cosmos throug “
h the Seven planetary

Logoi” and through the twelve zodiacal signs, or as they are called in
“

the B ible ”

, the Hierarchies (see esoteric part) did not take place only
at the beginning of the Universe, but takes place da ily in us and round
us in nature , in our thinking and acting, in the blossoming and
decaying of nature.



We can regard the Zodiacal signs from different points of view and
so draw our consequences in many different ways 1

. )
We divide the Signs into 4 ca rd ina l a

, QB, 4 fixed (8 i
, n,

51 , z ) and 4 mutable (or common) signs (11 , up, 3c and further, into
four triplicities, named after the element which they represent. Viz. fiery
earthy, a iry and wa tery triplicity (Compare the following pages).
So we have a tripli -

city which joins a quadruple (A l D). The tripl icity
represents in its three aspects respectively the qua l ities : will, love,
wisdom, whi le the quadruple symbol ises the 4 elements of the ancients
or a lso the 4 form-aspects or aggregates of matter.

The astrologica l tripl icity thus is : 1 cardinal , 2 fixed, 3 mutable.
1 . Ca rd ina l . Symbolises the outgoing, driving force in the Universe

(Rajas), in which the desire to create expresses itself ; movement and
energy, the wish to manifest (V , e , Z).

2 . fi xed . The driving, directing force has become a quiet, organising
force , power, (Tamas) which constructs, material ises, shapes and is
erseveri ig and constant in its expression. It is fixation-solidi fication
pit "

. 1 , gi m .

3. Mu table. The keystone here is adaptation, harmonising —; wisdom
and love are crystalised from the two preceding forces. It is polarisation
(Sattva) (I I "

, V, DC).
When we make this theoretical division, we must always bear in

mind that in real ity the three are a lways one and go together, though
the manifestation differs. The key-note of 1 , 2 and 3 respectively is
Will , Love, Wisdom . It is ev ident that withou t the gu iding wisdom, the
driving force of the will wou ld work destruction instead of construction,

and that harmonising striving without perseverance and unmovable power
could never be eternal , but would be only temporary.

This tripl icity of manifesting power finds its expression in a fourfold
way by fire a ir wa ter and earth- elements, as the Ancients called
them . We have to regard them as the different conditions of form
or aggregates in which the manifestation expresses itself.
So we get in every manifestation a comb ination of the 3 and the 4

or Of the triangle A with the i.e . of Spirit and Matter.
The Signs of each triplicity we may regard as fol lows. Let us take

for example the fiery tripli ’
city ‘

V , 51 ,

I ‘ ’
n the first Sign V we may compare the driving force of the Uni

verse to the beginning of a rectilinear or parabol ic movement towards
1) W e have in ou r trea tise this principle underlying, that thought precedes any

manifesta tion, and thought, looked upon in tha t way, 13 therefore the driving force
which makes everything shoot forth to being. That is why Aries (the head) is
our startingpoint, the spiritu al centre from which manifesta tion begins.

Only after this has begun, there can be question of love for that manifestation,

g (the heart) the second Sign of the fiery triplicity (also prana , life). The Ancients
there ore took the sign Aries for the beginning of the Zodiac.

Both revela tions did of cou rse not take place separately, bu t simu ltaneously in
a sense.



34

a goa l , e .g. an arrow that is shot. It is the actua l real ising Of the fiery
triplicity (Mental expression).
(Aries the planner, the pioneer).
The 2md sign Q always expresses an organising, directing, nu tritive

quali ty out of which the driving force is, as it were , condensed , as in
an accumu lator (Astral expression).
(Leo powerfu l commander).
The 3rd sign ,2‘ expresses a releasing, a coming free of the accu

mulated stra in of power and may therefore be compared to the hitting
Of the arrow in the bu l l ’s eye. (Physical expression).
(Sagittarius expressive , daring).
We can summarise all in the image Of an avalanche plunging down

in a val ley ; the beginning is here the first impu lse which is the
cause of the mass of snow on the mounta in-slope coming intomovement

the snow comes Off , begins to move and rolls down increasing
to enormous masses (9 ) and a moment a fter, it plunges down in the
val ley with roaring noise (J ).

The signs, divided into 4 ca rdina l signs (V , _o, as, X), 4 fixed signs
°

4 mu table Signs A DC), form angles of 90 and
°

180 with each other.
( )

V

—Z 81 “

m i‘

Cardina l Cross. Fixed Cross. Mutable Cross.

Two succeeding cardinal , fixed or mutable signs are alw °
ays90 from

each other (forming a square aspect, D). A further division is in 3 fiery
Signs (v , Q , 3 earthy Signs (8 "

. v, z ), 3 a iry signs (11 , .na , 3
watery signs (23 . "1 3C)
The three fie °

ry Signs form always an angle Of 120 (trine aspect A, )
.

and this is also the case with the airy , earthy and watery Signs.

fiery trip licity earthy triplicity airy triplicity watery triplicity
Fiery signs form always an angle of (sexti le aspect) with the

next following airy Sign, and so do the earthy with the watery signs.

They both make respectively an angle of 8 (opposition) with the
second airy or watery Sign.

The 4 elements, fire , air , water , earth represent the 4 planes on



35

which Man the Ego is manifested , viz. respectively : the higher
menta l , the lower mental ; the astral and the physical plane . Or, when
we compare them with man himself, resp . spirit, intellect, the astra l
body (desire body), the materia l body.

’

The 3 crosses we ’

may compare to the 3 Guna s of the Hindu s, viz .
the card ina l cross to Raj as (activity), the fixed cross to Tamas (con
stancy) and the mu table cross to Sa ttva (rhythm).

The cardina l signs govern the head and the intellect.
The fixed signs govern the sou l and the will.
The mutable Signs govern the body and the senses.

The greater part '

of the planets in fiery Signs (V , 82 i2‘) makes the
native positive , energetic, acting, progressive-minded, impu lsive .
The greater part Of the planets in a iry signs (n as

, , makes the
talented , refined , pensive , courteous, ideal istic , often inconstant.

The greater part of the planets in wa tery signs (93 , m , it ) makes
the native negative , sensitive, dreamy, psychic, shy, timid , romantic,
Often lacking in energy .

The greater part of the planets in earthy signs (8 , up, Z) makes the
native steady, practica l , plodding, economical , cautious, patient, reserved .

The four castes of the Hindus are under the four Elements. The
Priests under the element Of Air, the Warriors under the element Of
Fire, the Merchants under the element of Wa ter, and the Artisans under
the element of Earth.

In a judgment of a horoscope first of all the ascendant, the sun, the
moon and the ru ler of the rising Sign (the ru ler of the horoscope) must
be considered.

Every Sign is ru led by a planet as is indicated in the following
table and every Sign ru les a certain part of the human body

Pa rt of the Body
fiery Sign governs head and face
earthy throat and neck
a iry lungs and arms
watery stomach, breasts
fiery heart and back
earthy bowels, abdomen
a iry reins
watery secrets, generative organs,

bladder d
9 Sagittarius fiery thighs, hips 21
10 Capricorn earthy knees and bones b
1 1 Aquar ius a iry lower legs and ankles DH
12 Pisces watery feet and tissues 21 t?

1) To be ru ler of a sign means that the influ ence of a certain planet in a certain
Sign (see next tab le) is shown more strongly and more harmoniously than in other
signs. This is in connection with the beginning of the materia l manifestation of the



36

M ‘ ’
ascu l ine signs are V . 1 1 , a e

g

Feminine 8 . Q . m m ’
- 76 3c. (negative 1

N ’
orthe ‘

rn V , 8 0
, 17.

Sou thern , m, Z , 3C.

The Tropic
S igns rising short , 93 , m , For the Northern Hemis here ; the

'

l “
ong ”

Z 34; y v r e o t e o
, b 11 gre e s f r h S u thern emis

. phere.

Every Sig °
n of 30 is divided mto thr ee equal partsof the decana tes.

The l st, 2nd and 3rd decanates of each Sign have the same principa l
ru ler as the whole Sign, bu t as sub- ru ler the 2nd and 3rd decanate
have resp . the ru lers of the two Signs of the same oup, e.g. the sub

‘
ru ler Of the 2ud decanate ’

of V is the ru ler Of 9 the 2ud fiery Sign
, )

and that of the 3rd decanate the ru ler of ;2‘ (the 3rd fiery Sign) etc.

Seeing that these sub-ru lers have , in the judgment of the ascendant , an
influence secondary to that the principal ru ler, it is necessary that we
indicate the decanates and their sub-ru lers further.
r -

igWhen we have e .g. as ascendant i‘ it is not su fficient to study
the ru ler of the horoscope 9

, 1, but a lso the position and the aspects of
the subruler d (of the 2nd decanate).

‘ ’
V Ru ler d 8 Ru ler 2 I I Ru ler 8 QB Ruler D

° - ° ° ° °
0 10 O— ° °

10 0 — °
10 O—10

‘ ‘

Y Dec. 6 8 Dec. 9 11 Dec. 8 (I 5 Dec. D
°

1 — ° ° ° ° ° °
0 20 10 — °

20 10 —20 10 —20
£1 Dec. (9 m; Dec. 8 Dec. 9 111 Dec. 6

°
2 — ° ° ° ° ° °
0 30 20 — °

30 20 —30 20 —30
iZ‘ Dec. fit 76 Dec. 17 Dec. hm 36 Dec. 2M?

’
Q Ruler 6) up Ru ler 8 Ru ler 9 m Ruler o

°
0 — ° ° ° ° ° °

1 °
0 0 —10 0 —10 0 - 10

81 Dec. 6) my Dec . 8 e Dec. 9 m Dec. (5
°

1 — ° ° ° °
0 20 ° °

20 10 —20 10 —20
i2‘ Dec. 21 Z Dec. 17 Dec. bra Dec. 21 1?

°
2 — ° ° °

30 ° ° °
20 — °

0 30 20 —30 20 —30
‘ ’

V Dec. 6 8 Dec. 9 I I Dec. 8 95 Dec. D
i‘ Ru ler 91 Z Ru ler I7 Ru ler 131 1) 9C Ru ler t? Qt

°— ° ° °
0 1 °

0 ° °
0 — °

10 0 —10 0 - 10
i‘ Dec. 21 76 Dec . I7 Dec. I I .

. i b Dec 137 21
° °

10 - ° °
20 10 — ° °

20 °
10 —20 10 —

°
20

‘ ’

V Dec. 6 8 Dec. 9 11 Dec. 8 93 Dec. D
° ° °

20 —30 °
20 — °

30 20 — ° ° °
30 20 —30

9 Dec 7
. D

, (9 "1 ec. 8 Dec. 9 m Dec. 6

planet in a certain part of the heavens. The trea tment of thissubject be longs to esoteric.

astrolo . At the end, in the esoteric part, something more abou t this will be said.

1) ee Chap. Polar ity, p. 85.






38

At the transition of z: in I a strong deviation of the ord inary ru le
°

occurs, viz . the influence of 3c is already felt in the last 5 ofat . These
l °
ast 5 therefore show the blended qual ities of two signs. We see the
same ‘

at the transiti Y’

, viz
°

on of 36 i . the last —
n 5 of 36 Show the

ble ‘
nded qual ities of these two Signs. Betwee ’

n V and 8 this blending
of qualities totals only °

1 and further no imperceptible change of the
signs takes place till int— ax, where it is The transition between a;

and m is uncerta in, that between ;2‘ and Z sharp , bu t that between
K and 2 : goes imperceptibly °

over the last 4 of Z so that there a lready
the qual ities of x begin to Show. With the other signs the transi
t “ ”
ion is fairly sudden, here no chemic polarisation , as he ca l ls it,
takes place .

In many cases the M . C. will Often give us the solution. Isabella
“

Pagan, too, says in her astrological work entitled : From Pioneer to
Poet” that too l ittle notice is given to the influence Of the M. C. The
last section, at the end of each Sign in M . C. desc. and I . C. (nadir) I
have taken and a bbrevia ted from above-mentioned work .

(V ) Ar ies (ru ler d ) Fiery S ign.

Type : the En lishman.

Aries as ascendant : King eorge V, Carmen Sylva ,

Annie Besant, Oliver Cromwell.

The pure Ar ies- type has a wiry, slender, muscu lar body. The neck
is thin and long, SO is the head , and broadened at the sku ll especial ly
over the temples. It is a so-called wedge-shaped head . Ha ir and beard
are usua l ly b lack whereas the moustache is Often of a l ighter colour.

Flaxen and red hair occurs very Often under influence of Ari es
especial ly if its ru ler, Mars, is rising in the ascendant. Then there is
often a lso a scar in the face . Complexion tawny. Sharp glance .

The character is violent, hasty , impu lsive, choleric , courageous. The
Ar ies-type shrinks from nothing, dares to undertake anything, goes
through thick and thin, and his robust hea lth enables him to do so. He
cannot very wel l be in an inferior position but wishes to be at the
head, whether he has the ability for it or no. Under this Sign therefore
are found the pioneers, the leaders, but a lso many muddle-headed
people . He acts qu ickly, and performs his task with great enthusiasm ,

but with the lower type this Often degenerates into fanaticism .

In judging , one must carefu lly seek out the aspects of other planets
this Sign and its ru ler (d ) receives, because the aspects may mod i fy
the character strongly.

This is of course , also the case with the other signs "
°

The afore-sa id facts are especial ly applicable to the first ‘ ’

10 of Y ,

the first decanate , of which Mars is the sole ru ler. The second decanate
has for sub-ru ler the Sun, the third Jupiter, so that the qualities of these



39

last decanates are mingled with those of the signsofwhi ch respectively
the Sun and Jupiter are ru ler.
The Aries-t e is fond of argument and likes to devote his time to study

and research. e Sun is exalted 1) in this Sign. (The E tian name for Ar ies
is Ramah i.e. a heightened region in Egypt). The skin 0 a ram covered the
holiest in the Egyptian temples.

The danger f
‘

or th ’
e V type lies in overstrain, the exacting of too much

from body and spirit ; want of rest. He must learn to conquer his rudeness,
im atience, irritabi lity, and cu ltiva te kindness and patience. By doing so he
wi l also gain bodily health. Much movement in free na ture is a necessity
with him. This Sign governs head and face.

‘ ’
V in M . C 2

. ) gives a strong desire a fter perfect expression. He wishes to
be in the van, to be a pioneer, a leader. The standpoint is hopefu l and pro

gressive, bu t sometimes very changeable.

‘ ’

V in descendant 2) gives a tendency to progressive thinking and ever
being inclined to other points of view, so lack of perseverance.

‘ ’
V in I . C . The foundation Of the character is courage, born from hope,

sometimes, however, only expressing itself in foolhardiness and impa tience.

(8) Taurus (ruler 2) Earthy S ign.

Type : the Irishman.

is as ascendant, George Washington, General Ulyssus
S . Grant.

G ives a Short , well-set body, thick nek, short straight nose , at the
base usual ly deep-planted. The l imbs are short and firm , the hands broad
and heavy , with short fingers. The shou lders are broad , the ha ir abun
dant and Often curl ing. The forehead is broad and usually low , the l ips
thick , the eyes kind, dark and overshadowed by heavy eyebrows.

The character is practica l and diplomatic, phlegmatic, dogmati c , l ittle
temper but when his passion is once roused, he becomes dangerous
(the raging bu ll). Taurus Often gives musical talent and a fine voice .
Taurus governs the neck , throat and larynx .

Further characteristics are : self-assertion, constancy, which qua l ities
change into conceit , and obstinacy if we find the sign or its ru ler Q also,

a ffl icted. (See 9. aspects p . 125 In Taurus the moon is exalted. (See
p . Especially the Taurus-type of the first decanate evinces strong likes
and disl ikes, is very reserved and lazy. The ru ler of the l st decanate is
Venus, the 2nd decanate of ‘

d has for sub-ru lerMercury (8 This deca
1) See p. 52.

2) Asc. Genera l character and bu ild of the body, the outward man.

Characteristics that are a lready developed .

M. C. Emotions and aspirations, his view on things, the point of VleW .

(Karma) .
Desc. W ay of thinking, it denotes the qua lities he has stil l to develop and

which are present to an insufficient degree so far.
L C. Hereditary tendency, the founda tion of the character. (Dharma).



40

nate is more critica l and egoisti ca l but at the same time more intellec
tual . The 3rd decana te has for sub-ru ler Sa turn (P—i 76) throughwhich the
laz iness to which Taurus is inclined makes room for greater activity.

The last decanate is distingu ished by less trustworthiness and more
egoism than the first.
This type must strive to conquer the inclinations which Show too much

attachment to earthy things and must cu ltivate his sense ofreligion. Furthermore
the lazy tendency has to be overcome.

it in M. C. gives a strong longing for peace, and grea t enjoyment in the
pleasure of a well-eamed rest, reaping the fru it of work done which Often
b comes too material . He Often takes a fixed standpoint and does not easily
cfian e.

gin desc. The spirit is constant, firm , probably even obstinate and stubborn.

in LC. The foundation of the character is persevering and constant,
stubigom .

(11 ) Gemini (ru ler 8) Airy Sign.

Type : the Belgian (Walloon
I I as ascendant, Richard Wagner, Lord ennyson, Dante,

Bernard Shaw.

G ives a tall , stra ight, thin stature, narrow face , bent, (Often an aqu il ine)
nose, a Sharp and penetrating glance , strong intellect , brown eyes and
dark ha ir. The ga it is qu ick and when wa lking the Gemini-type oft
en moves his arms violently. The lower Gemini is very restless,
ta lkative , cunning, mendacious and diffusive , is si lent only when you
stick him fast. Arms long, the hands often short and ever moving, even
when he sits qu ietly on his cha ir. Indeed they are as restless men
tal ly as physically.

This Sign produces professiona l men, and excellent orators. Gemini
gives a healthy body usually .

The Sign governs the lungs, arms and shou lders. In order to rise
higher the Gemini-type must silence his cold positivism and by being
passive allow his intu ition to work. His restlessnesswill then disappear.

The l st decanate is purely intellectua l and is ru led by Mercury
the 2nd decanate has for sub-ru ler Venus (e ) and joins feeling to cold
intell ect ; the 3rd decanate has for sub-ru ler Saturn and Uranus (x ). The
higher ideal ism and love of mankind makes this decanate the best of
the three . With a ll judgments much Of course depends on the nature
of the aspects which the ascendant and the ru ler receive .

The Twins have sprou ted according to mythology from one of the
eggs which were the fru it of the union of Jupiter changed into a swan, and
Leda, wife to the King of Sparta . They took part in the voyage of the Argo

‘

nauts and freed the sea Of pirates. Tha t is why they are honoured as sea -
gods.

The Gemini-type must overcome his egoism and superficial ity and cul tiva te



his sence Of du ty and self-control. In this way he will become the master of
his nervous disorders, neurasthenia and hysteria .

n in M G. gives a strong longing for a completer expression and inclines
to original, or healthy artistic or intellec tual work. The point of view is free
and unlimited and highly intellectual .

11 in desc. Fruitfu lness in thoughts, but often lack of responsibility to pu t
them to practice, fugitiveness.

I I in LG. indicates a certa in joyfu l impulsiveness which can make the
na tive a ttain much in many directions.

(23 ) Cancer (ru ler (D) Watery Sign.

Type : the native of Holland not the Du tchman).
25 as ascendant, Leo Tolstoy, schaikowsky, H . P. B la

vatsk Kaiser Wilhelm H, Emile Zola . The last two exam
ples S ow how many planets in one Sign (and in M G. as

well) can influence the the character.
has 6 and t? in M G. (in G) , D, d in
i ‘ ’
n V . Both are Mars- types ; however also the ancer

Gives Often an over-sensitive and therefore not strong body, of
which the upper half is stronger developed than the lower. The head
is round, the fea tures and the eyes usua lly smal l , the chin l ittle developed
and often receding, the nose flat and usua l ly turned-up . The face is
round and pal e , the mouth large and fu ll Of expression. Upon the
whole the body gives a somewhat effeminate impression. Cancer governs
the breasts and the gastric region. The character is shy, timid , want
Of courage and also oversensitive to impressions from outside, and
the environment in which it is placed. The Cancer-type needs domes
ticity and sympathy, but it is difficult for him to be in sympathy with
the same people for a long time ; he is changeable in this l ine as

well as in many others and this makes l ife particu larly hard to him at
times. In one point, however, the Crab is extremely retentive and that
is where his ideals are concerned. If he once has chosen an ideal ,
in which direct ion soever, he will follow it wit ’

h great perseverance ;
the Crab holds fast to what he has. He is very subject to changing
moods. He is to develop further through continual change of conditions
of l ife ; perhaps because in former incarnations he gained too l ittle
experi ence . This Sign enables to experience any degree Of emotion, the
highest as well as the lowest.

In many works on astrology one -finds mentioned that Cancer gives
a strong memory . This may be tru e for the Sun placed in Cancer, but
Cancer as ascendant , on the contrary, often gives a weak memory.

93 is the Sign of sensitive people and mediums. The higher vibrations
of 93 give the endowment Of cla irvoyance and a keen feeling for art .
Cancer typifies that which is motherly, cherishing, sympathetic, which

always, in al l its changeabil ity, forms the keynote of the Cancer-character.



42

Many lead a wandering, restless l ife , thrown this way and that way
by their emotions and imaginations by which they are completely ru led.

Their temper is usually subject to many fluctuations. They like to follow
others, imitate others through want of firmness, and this is why
they have so l ittle power to resist influences Of illness ; evil does not
miss making its impression as well as good.

'

The l st dec. is rul ed by the changeable Moon only ; the 2ud dec .

has for sub-ru ler d (m) which g1ves more constancy to this decanate ;
the 3rd dec . has for sub~ru ler 21 (it) so that love of mankind and a

l iking to serve others becomes the keynote. By the side of 91, also 1?
as sub-ruler comes to the fore.
Hope and faith shou ld be cu ltiva ted and the inclination towardshypochondria

Overcome. Re lar bodily exercises are of much
in M. Gives a longing to completely understand things and a proneness

to affect the feeling and the imagination of his fellow men, usually from the
standpoint of prepossession.

in desc . The spirit is fu ll of fantasy, retentive, and at times musing
and fantastic.

in IC . The foundation of the character is pa tience, which in its highest
expression brings with it an admirable power Of adaptation to the environment
and a persevering aspira tion.

(Q ) Leo (ru ler Q ). Fiery S ign.

Type : the Frenchman.

Q as ascendant , Von B ismarck, King George ofGreece,
Pierpont Morgan, Adeline Pa tti , Alan Leo.

Body usua lly big and broad-shou ldered, well-bu ilt , bu t the upper
body is stronger developed. Ha ir usually fa ir, sometimes ruddy, eyes
large , the face ova l , a pink complexion and often a strong chin that
is knobbed.

The voice is strong and somewhat authoritative which qua l ity is to
be observed in the glance as well . If one anticipates the wishes of the
Leo-type and shows him that one appreciates him, he is a good, gene
rous and courteous friend, but the afflicted Leo suffers from conceit and
i ’

naccessibility. Courage is one of Leo s good qual ities.

This Sign governs the heart and the back , it gives as a rule a strong
body like the Ram does, but more corpulent .
His love of ru l ing and his impu lsiveness cause his l ife to be rather

subjected to changes, to ups and downs. Much depends on a good
p ’

osition of the Sun, Leo s ru ler.

Some modern astrologers who have the sign Q strongly in their horos
cope cal l it “ ’ ’

the kingly or lord ly sign and rea lly, the Leo people 11ke,

to adopt a maj estic manner. We can even Observe this in the maj estic
gesture with which a beggar that comes under this sign, takes our ahns.



The l st decanate gives the purest Leo-type ; the Sun is sole ru ler
here ; the 2nd dec. adds the Jupiter influence having an expansive
effect on the body and at the same time rousing the inclination for
religion and philosophy. The 3rd dec. has for sub-ru ler Mars
by which the intellectua l side of the character is favourably influ enced,
together with much vital ity.

The ancients kept during the month when the Sun went through Q , grea t
worships and festival s, the so-called Leonitic feasts, which were conducted by
the priests, the Leones. A fter the Sun-

god of the Persians, Mithras, these feasts
are also called Mithriaca. The symbolic stories ofSamson and Herculeshave as
founda tion the passing of the sun through this Sign, they are the symbolic
representation of it.

The Leo-type must try and learn to conquer his vanity and endeavour to
live in harmony with his environment.
Q in M. C. inclines the na tive to let his light shine for others, and so

lighten the life of others, thus serving God. It gives moreover a desire after
glory and honour, sometimes the antipode of it viz. a longing to be fla ttered
and praised. The point of view goes from the inner Side of the things to a ll
directions.

ln_desc. gives breadth and intelligence to the spirit, bu t little cleamess
and etai led-ness.

Q in I. C . The character is loving and faithfu l , sometimes expressing
itself as a kind of easy and weak tolerance.

( in?) Virgo (ru ler 8) Earthy S ign.

Type : the Swiss.

IT? as ascendant, Czar Nicholas II, Melanchton, Guy de
Maupassant.

Perception and chastity are the characteristics of this Sign. The Virgo
type is usua l ly of medium height, rather stou t, the forehead well
developed with a beautifu l rounding and ful l in the middle above the nose .

Eyes and ha ir dark .

"V governs the intestinal canal and the digestion in general
absorption and assimilation, a lso the peritoneum , the sympathetic system
and the solar-plexus. The intellect is not second to that of Gemini , but
it is withou t the restlessness ofGemini . The Virgo-type is qu iet, reserved ,

intell igent, inventive persevering, Often self-conta ined and systematic.
,

This sign produces good business people who both through their working
facu lty and their intellectua l powers get on in the world . The weak
side Of Virgo is its strongly pronounced inclination to criticism and in
the lower Virgo- type a high degree of egoism and coldness, which
comes so much to the fore in no other sign.

He is hopefu l under a ll circumstances, which is also a qual ity of
the other earthy sign 8 .

The l st dec. comes wholly under Mercury ; the 2ud dec. has for



44

sub- ru ler Sa turn (78) through which the practical , hardworking side of
the character comes to the fore. The 3rd dec. has for subru ler Venus
(8) which add to the other qual ities of Virgo a .o. amiability and love
for art.

Virgo, Ceres (Demeter) is the goddess of agriculture and of legisla tion and
'

social order. She roves abou t the earth in Search Of her daugh ier Persephone,
who has been carried away by Plu to and brought to the nether world .

This sign is represented by a Virgin, holding some ears of corn in her
right hand. It is the symbol of the unsul lied soul .

It is called in Arabic : Sun-bula , i.e. she who bears. In eastern Palestine
and adjoining countries the constella tion the Virgin is just above the horizon
on Dec . 25th at midnight and ou t of her according to the doctrine of the
ancient Persians the sun-

god Mithras is born. W e find the same legend
in most religions, only under other names.

The Virgo-type must strive after a broader conception and must try and
conquer his e oism. He must see to a good digestion and refrain from spice.

up in M g striving after purity and attempts to raise the public morality
and heal th by teaching Obed ience to the universal laws which govern both.

His point of view is that of the critic distinguishing good from bad , pure
from impure.

"V in desc. denotes a -clear and practical character with little fantasy and
therefore not in s pathy with the conceptions of others.

"17 in I . C . e foundation of the character is purity , which causes an

aversion to all tha t is sickly or impure.

(fi ) Libra (ru ler 9) Airy S ign.

Type : the Austrian.

as ascendant, the Emperor Francis Joseph, Colonel
Olcott , Pasteur , Erasmus.

As type Pasteu r comes under (15 , through themany
planets he has in this sig“n and lcott under Q . 0 ]
cott has the Q in MO in Q .

The body is ta ll , Slim and shapely, the hair usua lly dark, eyes brown,

but also many people with fa ir hair and blue eyes are found under this
Sign. Nose straight, forehead near the eyebrows more pronounced. The
expression of the eyes is honest, frank .

The character is courteous, kind, helpfu l ; often somewhat indolent,
but usual ly sympathetic. The will is weak, so that the Libra-type is
strongly ru led by circumstances and ou tward influences.

He is Often the slave of his feelings and impulses.

He tr ies to evade unpleasantnesses at any cost. His greatest virtu es
are honesty and a strong feeling of justice .

governs the loins, principa l ly the kidneys, excepting the pelvis of
the kidney (m). SO here it is secretion, in Opposition to the preceding
Sign absorption.

The l st dec. is ru led by Venus, the 2nd has for sub-ru lers Uranus






46

l st dec. is ru led by d , the 2nd by d and 21. (it), the 3rd dec. by d
and D The 2nd dec. gives a sl immer and better proportioned body
than the l st and the 3rd.

Under this Sign come many Spiritual ist mediums and sensitive people .
It is especially their task to purify their sexual inclinations and to control

them. This task is represented in the myth of Scorpio who slaysOrion. A long
this way only can the lower Scorpio-type evolve to higher things. Tha t is
why the earlier parts Of his life are, as a ru le, much more difficu lt by far than
the la tter part .

The Scorpio-type must strive after pu rity and aftermore leniency for others.

111 in M. C . gives a longing for power over the livesofothers by exercising
his will . The point of view is that of a ru ler, watchful and carefu l, possibly
inclined to pessimism.

m in desc. The spirit draws its conclusions in an evidently illogica l way,

based on instinct or intu ition ; yet they are true, except when feeling plays
too great a art.

m in I. signifies that the foundation of the character is power, which
however, at times proves to be somewhat merciless in its expression.

Sagittarius (ru ler Qt) Fiery S ign.

Type : the Spaniard.

,2‘ as ascendant, Pres. Roosevelt, King Edward VII , Sven
Hedin, Stanley.

G ives a well-proportioned , healthy body, high forehead, blue or

blu ish-grey eyes and chestnut ha ir or fa irer, usua lly with a golden sheen.

The glance is kind, fu ll of expression and Open. The nose is stra ight
or very little bent, the complexion is fresh and fa ir.

The character is independent, open and frank , sometimes irritable
and troublesome , very impu lsive and combative (when a fflicted) ; they
are usually fond of travelling. The higher type is philosophical , very
religious, peacable, good and merciful . Their origina lly good temper is
subject to many fluctuations and passes from gentleness to rudeness.

They love al l branches of sport and are real lovers of animals (expe
cially horses).

a? governs the hips and thighs, the locomotor muscles.

Mercury has its detriment (see p . 52) in this Sign i.e. that the intellect
Shou ld be Silent here so that the higher self may awake to ru le the
lower self ; viz . when the bra in-thinking sleeps, intu ition and inspiration
awaken.

The l st dec. comes under Jupiter, the second has Mars (V ) for sub
ru ler, through which the strong feeling of independence may rise to
excitement and stubbornness. The third dec. has for sub-ru l er the
Sun a fairly favourable influence whichweakens the impu lsive-mess
a l ittle and gives more devotion



Sagittarius is represented as a centaur, shooting an arrow.

The Sagittarius-type is sometimes wrongly judged in his free, easy inter
course with the Opposite sex, on the whole, however, his character is
rather clear.

By their habit of expressing themselves impu lsively and by their exagger
a tion with regard to bodily exercise and sport they Often expose themselves
to disagreeable things and accidents ; they shou ld learn to force themselves
to calmness.

,2‘ in M. C. Desire for higher knowledge and for teaching it and applying
it practically in life. The point Of view is tha t of the practical philosopher who
is always ready to learn.

,z‘ in desc. The Spirit is continually searching after science, is restless and
sfied in this strife.

,z‘ in I. C. The character shows a high degree of independence, related to

pride, sometimes even uncourtesy.

Capr icorn (ru ler b) Earthy S ign.

Type : the Bulgarian.

X as ascendant : Robert Schumann, Bhagavan Das,
Gladstone. Michael Angelo.

Gives medium stature , and an intelligent, philosophica l Spirit. Nose
and chin long. Handsome features seldom occur under Capricorn. This
Sign gives much power to persevere , so that he who comes strongly
under its influence , usua l ly reaches the end he a ims at, though he has
to fight al l kinds of difficu lties. The intellect is good , and although he
does not think qu ickly, he usua lly gathers a hoard of knowledge by
persevering . He is seldom superficial , usually earnest and cautious.

They are not qu ick in their l ikes and dislikes, but their friendship as

well as their hatred is of a lasting nature .

This Sign produces many great men, especia l ly in the pol itical l ine .

Their inborn inclination makes them long for a high position and by
their perseverance , tact, and diplomatic ta lent they usual ly reach the
purpose of their wishes, though slowly, for they have to work
hard for it. They possess the power to fight effectual ly their inherent
melancholic, worrying nature.
Their glance is usual ly fixed to the ground , a Capricorn will seldom

look stra ight in the eyes of the person he is talking to ; the glance is
sluggish, the eyebrows are planted low and sometimes grown together
on the bridge Of the nose . Hair and eyes black , the beard thin. The fore
head is broad . They like to speak in public, but seldom Speak easily
and fluently. Z governs the knees and bones.

The moon has its fa l l in Z and d is exalted in Z ; the sun stands
lowest in X for the northern hemisphere, but begins to rise higher
f ’

rom this Sign. At Jesus birth the Sun had just entered the Sign 76 ,

it is the symbol of resurrection and in a deeper sense , of the beginning



48

aga in of the Spiritual ising of the earth and all it contains a fter it
had reached its lowest point in physica l matter. Hence the fall of the
Moon in The reflected light of the Moon wanes, that the true
spiritua l l ight Of the Sun can shine aga in with more force . Together
with that, the old conception of matter is thrown Off and the rea l Sig
nificance of matter in relation to spirit becomes clear .

The l st dec. has for ru ler Saturn, the 2nd has for Sub-ruler Venus
the 3rd Mercury
The mythological significance of this constellation has not been

expla ined. Some are inclined to believe it to be the pastoral
suppose that it is the emblem ofthe goat Amalthea which nursed Zeus (Jupiter)
on the island of Cyprus.
Rhea the mother of Jupiter, daughter of Uranus (Heaven) and Gaia ( arth

had Zeus (Jupiter) nursed in a cave. Zeus when grown up , forced his Fa ther
(Saturn) to vomit Manvanta ra -exhalation) his swal lowed children
inhalation after which Heaven and Earth
M (91) were separated, and

( it?) and i ades (d )
Jupiter has his fall in Capricorn.

The causes of illness are Often dejection and discontent, which can be
overcome by mixing with pleasant company and by cultivating hope.Hemust
evade solitude if he wishes to feel happier.
K in M. C . gives a strong longing to rise above the condi tions of his

envi “
ronment, which sometimes degenerates into the upstart” . The point of

View is affable and approving towards superiors and Often supercilious and
d isdainful towards inferiors.

Z in desc. The spirit is profound and penetrating, possibly somewhat
hypocritical or narrow.

z in I. C. The foundation Of the character is the passionate longing for
growth.

(at ) Aquarius (ru ler Iii , b) Airy Sign.

Type the Swede.

as ascendant, Al fred de Musset, Jules Sandeau , Lord
Salisbury.

Aquarius gives l ike Capricorn, a calm , patient and honest nature and
a Sharp , penetrating, philosophical spirit, which, however with x

, goes
in a more ideal istic d irection and is often accompanied by eloquence
and a nice feeling for plastic arts. This Sign inclines to seclusion and
sol itude and serious studies, especially in the occul t line . The investi
g ation into all things that deviate from the every-day things, especial ly
the study of the human character and of the great questions of l ife are
their favour ite theme . They usual ly are too strongly influenced by

There are two different types under this sign a fair and a dark,
the face is lank-cheeked, the chin long, the eyes are handsome. As

.a ru le the Aquar ius type has many friends.



Under this Sign are found many occu ltists, mystics, asceticts, assiduous
investigators and students of nature, in genera l , enl ightened people .
The weak side of the undeveloped z types is, that they indu lge too
much in their strange fantasies and inclinations, which in that way
easily degenerate into something sickly and abnormal .With them intellect
must be joined to intu ition and by patient and loving work they obtain
a wonderfu l understanding of the powers that work in nature. Along.

this road they arrive at a rhythmic harmony with the
influence over the bloodcircu lation and governs the lower l eg and ankles.

The first decanate has for ru ler Uranus and Sa turn, the 2ad dec. has
for sub-ru ler Mercury the 3rd dec. has for sub-ru ler Venus (a ), through
which more harmony and clearer vision is added to this part of 23 .

The water-bearer who pours ou t the water of life On to the earth is the
symbol of the highly developed man who, as co

-opera torwith the Logos, helps
the evolu tion of the Cosmos.

The weak point in this sign is the circu lation, showing e.g. in cold hands
and feet. Much bodily exercise and fresh air is advisable.

in M. C . Longing to work for the evolu tion of humanity which their
breadth of Vision enables them to do. The point of view is that of the seeker
after tru th withou t prejudice and with an Open eye.

in desc. The spirit is frank, unprejudiced, bu t sometimes uncertain in
its conclusions.

z in I . C . The foundation of the character is a strong feeling of love of
mankind , arising from the knowledge that the source of all manifestation is
the same.

(DC) Pisces (Ruler 1? and Watery S ign.

T} e : the Portuguese.

8 ‘

DC as ascendant, ueen W ilhelmina and b i
’

n V
in Q ueen Victoria Of Spa in, Cleo de Merode, Pius
the Empress Friedrich.

G ives a fleshy body, a weak constitution, sensitive to influences.

Their inner nature is honest, good and gentle, they wish to serve and
to help , wherever they find an opportunity , but they are often the sport
Of ou tward influences and of their emotions by being so extremely
susceptible .

The eyes are pale grey and watery, so-ca lled fish-eyes, easy to
recognise . They usual ly get a double chin when they grow elderly.

O ften a wan complexion, shou lders round , attitude often bent, arms and
l egs short and Shapeless, ha ir fine and silky.

“
Th Fi ”

e shes are not among the happy people ; they live as it
were under a fatal anathema which compels them to remain in the
background in everything. They have continually to fight a ll kinds of
adversities and disappointments. It is as a road to crucifixion along
which the perfect man has to go, b efore he is na iled to the cross in

4



50

‘
the Sign of the Ram (V is the next sign). Neptune , the ru ler, is the
u ttermost, the highest three-dimensional planet of our solar-system ;
a planet of which little is known as yet. Likewise a Fish-type is seldom
understood and appreciated . They are Often mistrusted , though they
may be completely relied upon, they ask l ittl e for themselves, however.

The 1st dec. comes qu ite under 1? and 21, and gives a broad and
heavy-bu ilt body, the 2nd has for sub-ru ler the Moon and the
3rd 6 (m). Hence the last decanate receives more power and constancy
and that which is too sensitive and feminine though gi fted and
true of the zud dec. becomes mu ch more positive .
The tender part of the body is the feet. It will be difficult , for a lady

that has this sign afflicted in her horoscope , to wear the heel of her
shoe under the middle of her foot, and so she will have to l ive “

on a

large footing” if mother nature has not endowed her with graceful ,
littl e feet.
Thou h the body Of the Pisces-type is weak, the harmonious natu re ofthe

individu is a help here and thus ascertains fairly good health.

With the Old Syrians the fish enjoyed religious adoration.

DC in M. C. gives a clear View on things, not confused by illusion, a
stri ving to teach mankind and bring it closer to the innermost being of the
Universe. The point of view is that of a poet, a seer, a mystic.

DC in desc. makes the spirit very susceptible, for psychic influences aswel l ,
i.e. mediumistic.

DC in I. C. The foundation Of the character is sacrificing and devou t, some
times it expresses itself in complete want Of initiative and action.

Influence of the Decanates on Body and Character .

According to Hindu-astrology the first hal f of each decanate is posi
tive the second half negative In the case of the Sign Aries
therefore (see the table °

of the decanates p . 36) the first 5 have
“

for rul ers d , d and the following ° ° °
5 6 , d From 10 up to 15 we

have for ru le ° °
rs d , (D and from 15 up to 20 d , C) From °

20 up
° °

to 21 and from 25 up to 30 6 9
, 1 and l ikewise for

each Sign.

It must always be borne in mind that a planet in or near the ascen
dant causes a change according to the nature of the planet and further
that a planet in M. C . has a lso a great influence on temperament and
appearance.

1) The zu d decanate has the strongest Neptune (t?) influence, as a rul e,
having less of Jupiter and more of the Moon.



51

The Planets.

After the nature of their influence the planets are distingu ished into
good and bad, or if we use the universa lly accepted astrological terms,
i 1
n benefics and ma lefics. ) To the benefics belong : 21, 9, (9 and some
times 19 ; to the ma lefics : b, d , m, whereas 8 and D may be cal led
neutra l . The latter accept the qual ities of the planets by which they are
aspected. All planets however are in their effect coloured by the Sign
in which they are placed . Neptune has a harmonious influence only
when well aspected and even then, only when the consciousnessof the
native is su fficiently developed to respond to the very high vibrations
of this planet. In a ll other cases gt works as a malefic.

Just like the signs, we can classi fy the planets according to their
manner of action, into : fiery , a iry, earthy and watery planets. The fiery
p lanets are Mars, the Sun and Jupiter ; the a iry p lanets Uranus and
Mercury ; the ea rthy planets Satu rn and Venus : the wa tery p lanets the
Moon and Neptune .

Usual ly a planet works strongest in a Sign of the same nature , so
e.g. Mars in a fiery Sign, Saturn in an earthy Sign, but the table below
shows us, tha t there are exceptions ; e.g. Mars is strong in the watery

”
sign "1 . Saturn is strong in Libra , an a iry Sign etc. I take “

strong in
the widest sense here ; for in astrology is meant by strong or exalted
action, that in a certain Sign the action of the planet in its highest and
purest meaning is expressed . In the Sign of which it is the ru ler , its
action is expressed to its fu ll force . The cause Of this is that the part
of the heavens of which this planet is the so-cal led ru ler h

, as on man
an effect in agreement with that of the ru ler.

Exa lta tion therefore real ly means , ennobled action e .g. the planet
Mars is exalted in Capricorn which means that the fiery, energetic
nature Of Mars is here combined with the logical , tactful nature of
Capricorn. That which is too impu lsive , produced e.g. by Mars in Sagit
tarins has made room for a qu iet, indefatiguable power ofwork , that over
comes a ll Obstacles.

Likewise, the Moon is exalted in Taurus and the sensitive , changeable,
l ittle-constant character of the Moon becomes enriched by the self
reliance , the constancy and the slowness of Taurus, which causes a

very good combination Of qual ities to be ca lled into being.

The Sun is exa lted in Aries, so that as it were a harmoniousOooperation
Of head and heart arises and in the same way we may regard the
exa ltation of Saturn in Libra , of Jupiter in Cancer, of Venus in Pisces,
of Mercury in Virgo. The Sun and the Moon ru le only one sign, so do

1) It has been observed before, that these terms are rea llywrong and that there
cannot be any question of good and bad, benefic and ma lefic ; but in order to evade
needl ess longwindedness we sha ll keep usin these universal terms.
T ‘

his a lso applies to the expressions a ction, afflicted , favourab le and unfa
vou rable which are continua lly used .



52

the planets Uranus and Neptune , the rema ining five planets Saturn,

Jupiter, Mars, Venus and Mercury ru le each of them two signs, as is
generally accepted, though in our Opinion this d ivision is incomplete
and was made in the time when Uranus and Neptune had not yet
been discovered and no other means was found to classify the planets.

“
For those who may be inclined to name this classification astro

logical or occu lt fantasy, we must observe that their judgment is rash,

seeing that the planets m in and t? in 3C show a very exalted action.

So it wou ld really be ca ll ing it another name .
Here follows the division of the planets as it is found in most

astrologica l works.

°
6 28

° °
6 28 9L 15

The degree given in the l ist of exa ltation indicates the place where
its exa ltation and its fa l l are strongest.

Above~inserted table shows that the planets have their fall in the
sign Opposite to the one they are exa lted in and that their detriment
is in the sign opposite to the one they ru le .

In the sign it ru les, the planet can show forth its strongest and
purest action ; in its exa ltation it shows forth an elevated , higher action ;
in its fa ll a weaker and more or less degenerated action and in its
detriment its action is very weak and impure .

A retrograde (It) planet 1) has a lso a weaker influence, it indicates
delay of action.

1) Here is of course, only question of a seeming moving backwards ofa planet,
seen from the surface of the earth. The planet moves in a d irection round the sun,

but seen from the earth this movement seems progressing or retrograding, according
to the sun being between the earth and the planet or the earth being between the
pl '

anet and the sun ‘ Sun and Moon can never be retrograde. It is for shortness
sake represented by the letter 3, in the horoscope.






54

The harmonious influence of the Sun makes one punctual and serious,
honest and noble. It governs the heart and its illnesses are complaints
of this organ. As the Sun is the l ife-giver of the Universe , so is the
heart the l ife-giver of the body. That is why its position and the aspects
it receives are of the greatest importance in the horoscope. The Sun is
ru ler of a l l l ife, the Moon is the giver of form. All life is expressed in
form and therefore the relationship of the Sun and the Moon by aspect
must be studi ed first of a ll . When these are in good aspect l ife can

express harmoniously through form or in other words, the individua l (6 )
and personal (D) sides of our being cooperate harmoniously.

It ’

is man s task to make the Moon or form-side subjected to the
higher, Sun or l ife-side of his existence , and to the degree in which
h “
e succeeds, so much is he master ofhis fate, and will ”

he ru le his stars .

The Sun has the greatest influence during the second hal f ofour l ife .

During the first half, and especia lly in childhood, the form-orMoon-side
of our being takes the lead.

’

The nature of the Sun- influence is dry and hot, just l ike Mars , but
more temperate.

Apollo, the Sungod , is in the oldest legends, still represented as a kind
of demon who sends disasters and pestilence to the cattle, bu t also averts the
evil ’

. The seventh day of the month was kept as Apollo s birthday and hence
celebrated .

He is also the God of tru th, light and purity, bu t of war as well. (Sun
influence corresponding to Mars-influence).

He is represented a o. as a you th of ma jestic and serious bearing and
armed with arrow, bow, lu te or trivet.

The Moon

Type : H . P. Blava tsky. The sign Q5 was rising, the well aspected and
strongly placed in the 4th house, the house of 23 .

The Moon was worshipped under all kinds of names and symbols.

Some of these are : Cynthia , Isis, Lana , Selene, Artemis, Persephone or

Proserp ine, Soma .

The Ancients knew that the Moon influences the moment of birth
considerab ly and so in mythology she is represented helping her mother
who is giv ing birth to Apollo.

She g overns the flu ids in the body, su ch as the sal iva , lymph and

g lands, breasts, the intestines (the entrai ls), bladder, and causes illnesses.

of these parts, su ch as stomach-ache, col ic ; further, asthma , measles,
convu lsions, etc. Inman it represents the sou l with its various emotions
and expressions, such as passions, desires, feel ings. It represents the
lower man just as the sun represents the higher man. By its short '
d istance from the earth the Moon is the principa l channel through which
the energy , the vital power of the sun expresses itself, influencing
the earth and a ll that is on it. The planets should be regarded as



suchl ike channels. Their influence is energy of the Sun, modified by the
individual character of each planet.
The Moon doesnot follow, as the Sun does, the ecliptic, but deviatesfrom

it northward and sou thward, and so has just like the planets, a latitude.

When the Moon occupies a very strong position in the horoscope,
it produces a stout body with short arms and legs and plump hands
and feet (smal l). The face is round and pal e, the eyes grey. The cha
racter is sympathetic but changeable and when the Moon is badly
aspected, it makes lazy, over-sensitive , cowardly, melanchol ic, mistrustfu l ,
a ccording to the planets that send the bad aspects. Those who come
st ’

rongly under the Moon s influence , often lead a complete gipsy
’

s

l ife ; they long for change, though deep in their hearts ~

, they hanker
a fter a cosy, family-l ife. They are extremely sensitive to ou tward im
pressions and as a ru le have a hard l ife. They usually su ffer from fits
of despondency . The nature of the Moon is phlegmatic, cold, humid,
and changeable.
The Ancients had a special division of the Zodiac after the 4 prin

c ipal phases of the Moon (each of about 7 days) in 28 mansions of the
moon, and they ascribed to each of these mansions a definite influence.
Nowadays this division has become obsolete and its significance is lost.
It will certainly be worth the trouble to investigate in this direction.

Sepharia l gives a fu l l account of this d ivision of the Zodiac, which
starts with Aries, the first degree.
The is the great collector of that which isharmonic and that which

is unharmonic which comes to it through the aspects of the other planets.

The Moon, well aspected and in an angu lar house is a warrant for
a successfu l l ife. Especial ly a good aspect of Jupiter and Venus is a

great help for obta ining and enjoying the good things in the material
world . One of the worst aspects in a horOSCOpe (especially in a feminine
one) is a square or an opposition to Saturn.

Attention must be pa id to the fact that the Moon accepts the cha
racter of the sign in which it is placed, e .g. if it is in V , Mars wi l l
assert its influence in impu lsiveness etc. , in a good or a bad sense
according to the aspects ; if it is in the Satum ine sign K , then earnest
ness and caution, but a lso the bad qual ities of Saturnwil l communicate
themselves to the character.

A badly aspected Moon is one of the surest tokens of weak health,

especia lly in the first seven years of l ife . Other factors, however, shou ld
also be considered in this case , which will be treated later on.

The Moon has a great influence on all that is connected with me
d iumship, spiritism psychometry etc. If its position is in one of the

,

occu lt houses (4, 8, 9, 12) and i f there are aspects of m or tstwemay
conclude with certainty that these inclinations are present , unless
Mars plays a principal part in l ife by aspect and strong position. In this
case much that a horoscope indicates, will not come to expression,

because the senses and sensuousness play first fiddle



56

For intellectual thinking an D-aspect w ith iéis very favourable, seeing
that to the cold logical thinking of 5 the imaginative-ness Of the Moon
is added.

That the Moon has such an extremely great influence on the earth and a ll
that is on it, is easy to understand. TheMoon represents the negative, feminine,
the mother-side of all existence, i.e. the material or form-side of it w, hereas
the Sun is the positive, mascu line, the fa ther-side, i.e. the spiritual side of
all being.

'

For thi ’

s reason the Moon s influence is the strongest in you th, when tha t
form-side is being developed , and when the form-side, in the midst of al l tha t
surrounds us, draws most of our attention. It becomes otherwise in the second
half Of live, when one is no longer content with knowing the consequences
(the form side, the D), bu t begins to ask after the causes (the sp iritua l
side, the Then does the Sun assert its influence more and more and
in the same egree does the Moon- influence come to the rear.

So we have to regard the Moon as the principle of all tha t is material ,
and the proof of it we may da ily observe in nature. Therewe see her influence
everywhere, both in a constructing and in a d isintegra ting sense, in the
four kingdoms Of nature.

When the Sun and the Moon are in Opposition regarding the earth, i.e.

w “
hen the moon is fu ll the material earth will receive its fu ll flow of life

and that is why this t
“

ime and the time of the waxing Moon works so

favourably on vegetation and al l tha t has to do with matter. For us it is the
time Of working, Of material transposition Of our power, and to begin
new enterprises to gain experience ; whereas during the time Of the new
Moon the material current is weakest, the spiritual flow of

’

the Sun , on the other
hand , can work in its fu ll force and that is why tha t time and the time of
the waning Moon are more fit for spiri tual work, for working ou t material
experiences and for transcending them. It is the time for meditation and self
communication, so in a sense, for that which is nega tive, receptive.

Many a simple farmer and fieldlabourer will be able to tell you how some
plants, when sown while the Moon is waxing, shoot forth into leaves,whereas
their roots develop much stronger and which give more seed, when sown
while the Moon is waning. He will tell you how theMoon regulateshis various

'

activities on the fields.

The Javanese will tell on that bamboo must be cut when the Moon is
new, if one wants it to be urable. Bu t the conclusion shoul d not be made that
eve farmer and every Javanese knows of these things"

elmont says tha t a killed frog even in winter, when exposed to the rays
of the fu ll Moon for one night, wi ll change into a slimy mass.

“
Kiesewetter mentions in Die Geheimwissenschaften, II p. 246 , when the

Wa llaba- tree Sou th-A frica —, very resinous) is felled a few daysbefore the new
Moon, it pro uces durable timber tha t is not easily Split. If it is, however,
felled towards fu ll Moon, it will easily be cut up into fine smooth boards,
and also split into staves, bu t the wood is not at all durable in tha t case.

As the Moon is the principal influence Of all tha t is physical , we can

understand tha t especially those who have a very sensitive physical body
those who are sensitive) respond extremely to Moon- influences. Their moods
uctu ating with the Moon, the beams of the full Moon work cheeringly on

them to a high degree ; they cannot go asleep when a Moon-beam pene



trates their bed -room ; in a pitch dark room they will with certainty point ou t
to you the direction where the Moon is in the skies, etc. On this see themte
resting proofs wi th sensitives made by Von Reichenba ch. (Cf. The

According to Reichenbach the Moon radiates principally positive 0d , the
’

Sun nega tive od ; the earth s surface is od-negative, but i ts core is Od-positive
and this is also the case with the other planets and their moons.

W e should not mix up this Od Of Reichenbach with electric or magnetic
emanations, though it is a constant accompanier of it.

’

B randler Pracht speaks abou t the Moon s influence on iron as follows
“If one leaves a sharp knife during one night in the window-sill and allows
the fu ll Moon to shine on it, this knife becomes useless and cannot be made
real ly sharp again even by repeated whetting.

It is further known that certain medical herbs, ga thered at certain as ects
of Moon and planets have a stronger effect than under other influences. ome
medical men and pharmacists may deny this with au thority, bu t we suppose
that their au thority is founded on ignorance concerning this.

The grea t influence which lunatics, hysterical and epileptical people expe
’

rience with the Moon s changes is known ; the word moon-struck is even used.

It is not doubtful that the critical days with acu te illnesses may be ca lcu
lated beforehand , according to the positions Of the Moon. The critical days are
th ’
ose when the Moon is in o . 8 and D with the place it occupied at the

beginning of the illness ; so tha t after tha t beginning the 8th, the 15th, the
22nd day we may expect a temporary change for the worse. (See chapter on
Astrology and Med icine) . Through cosm ic influences temporarily working in
an Opposite sense, these periodical changes for the worse, may, Of course, not
take place ; bu t the weekly rhythm is present.

So if we regard the Moon as the life-giver Of all tha t is physical ,wemust
always bear in mind that the Moon receives its power and the life that it
ves from the Sun, just as this is the case with the planets. There, also the
an is the origina l source. Withou t Sun no spiritual life, but no physical
manifestation in form as well.

”
As the goddess of the Moon, Artemis bears the name Of “Hekate i.e.

striking from afar.
The Hekate is triple, triangu lar, for the 3 phases of the Moon, fu ll

waning, waxing. Offerings are brought to her on three-forked ways and cross
ways by preference.

She is symbolized in different ways e.g. as the goddess Of hunting. She is
represented , sitting on a chariot drawn by deer.

Mercury
Typ ‘

e : Joe Chamberlain. Though he had the l st degree Of ®O rising, the
osition of 5 in gives him qu ite the appearance and character of
glercury.

Mercury is the expression of al l planets taken together and that is
why he is called the winged messenger of the Gods. With Gods is
me ’

ant here , the planetary Logoi or Deva s 1
. )

1 M “
ore abou t this in the esoteric treatise, and in C "

osmos and Microcosmos
by Aq . Libra .



58

His Chaldean name isNebo i.e. knowledge, and theHebrew, Egyptian,

and Greek names also have the same significance. We find the word
Nebo back in a number of historical names such as : Nebucadnezar,
Nabo-Polasser etc. It de “

notes viz . powe ”
r as well and so many Baby

lonian kings were called after it.
Mercury is the God of thieves and of merchants, it is not flattering

,

’

for the latter to be arranged under the same heading l Its colour is
yellow, its tone is E.

Formerly it bore the name of Hermes. Its symbol is the Caduceus
(two serpents curled round a staff and looking in a mirror), the God
Mercury is always represented with this symbol . It governs the thought
centre Of the bra ins, and memory, speech, nostri ls, lungs, nerves, hands
and feet. Its i llnesses are compla ints of these e.g. impedimentsof speech
(stammering, l isping), further hoarseness, nervous cough etc.

The Aspects of a and 9 with CD B = ZS°.



Seen from the earth Mercury , being so close to the Sun, removes
not f °

arther than 28 from the Sun, and so can only form a few aspects
with the Sun. (See fig. p .

6 comes next to the Moon in velocity of movement.
Its nature is fluctuating, changeable, col

'

d and dry. When in a strong
position in the horoscope it influences the bu il d Of the body and the
character : viz . it makes the body lean and slender, the arms long, face
narrow-cheeked and long, nose protruding, Often sharp . Hair and beard are
black and thin. Movements and ga it qu ick . The forehead is well-deve
loped and so are the bra ins.

Its influence produces students Of literatu re and exact sciences ; they
are very receptive , qu ick and sharp at argument and often good speakers
and writers. The faul ts that Mercury produces are egoism and self
conceit. One might typify this fau lt by saying “

: God knows all , but an
”

unharmonic Mercury-type knows all better.
Like the Moon, ii takes the colour of the sign in which it is placed

e .g. in fiery signs it makes the thoughts sharp and keen, in the a iry
signs a and x it makes ideal istic and fond of art, in [ I it gives
a penetrating and acute intellect, in m it makes sarcastic and at times
fickle etc.

Everything depends further on the aspects which 5 receives from
the other planets. Every aspect Of the D is favourable and produces
adaptabil ity, but the bad aspects bring at the same time much change
ability and difficu lty to concentrate the t houghts. A good aspect of fit
gives a pure feeling of right and makes tolerant and generous ; a good
aspect of Saturn makes the intellect fit for concentration and for profound
study in general . Saturn shuns all haste and superficial ity . A good
aspect of 9 gives taste and love for art and all that is elegant and
beautifu l, in some cases, however, sensuousness and superficial ity .

It produces people that seek only the bright side of l ife . A good aspect
of 6 gives courage, self-reliance, spirit of ent erprise, sharpness, love of
argument and power to conquer obstacles whereas e.g. a bad aspect
of b gives the contrary viz . want of courage and ofself-reliance , want Of
firmness, fear, timidity and despondency.

A good aspect Of m makes the intellect original , inventive , intu itive
departing from the commonplace and everyday things. The character

may seem strange and incomprehensible under this influence , but original
and interesting it most surely is. These people are enemies of a ll that
is conventional , enemies of all imitation.

A good aspect of t? will have no more effect than a dreamy, absent
and strange tendency with a lower developed individual , as regardshis
thinking and feeling ; but with a higher developed individua l that begins
to respond norma lly to the high vibrations of this occu lt planet, it will
produce a high and fine feeling for art , a gift to decipher the secrets
of nature , i.e. it allows him to see something there , where nothing
exists to others, it gives some genius, it endows with insight into



60

things metaphysical . We need only study the nativities ofP. B . Shelley,
John Keats, Franz Liszt, Anton Rubinstein, Rudolf Steiner and others to
understand the truth of this Neptune-influence .

A s regards the environment Of the native, Mercury represents in the
horoscope the younger brothers and sisters.

The action OfMercury in the various signs is treated later on. (See p .

Mercu ry (Hermes) was the son of Jupiter (Zeus) and Maia . He is represented
as the messenger of the gods, and as early as God-child , great restlessness, men
dacity, sharpness and thievishness show with him. He stea ls 50 head Of catt le, bu t
lies so c leverly that Apollo begins to lat

ég
h. As a pastora l god he is represented

with a ram, which he leads or carries. or the rest he has winged feet and a felt
hat on his head .

Venus

: the Emperor Francis Jo ~

seph. He has rising and the ru ler of this sign

g inType)
Also ca l led Beau ty . The Aphrodite of the Greeks. She was called

Astarte with the Phoenicians. Nana with the Babylonians, Isktar with
the Assyrians, Astoreth is the Hebrew name. The return Of the banished
Isktar from the kingdom of Hades to the earth is the Assyrian symbol
of the coming spring. (The Sun entersTaurus inApri l ; 2 isthe ru ler ofTaurus).
It was Freya, Lakshmi (the wife of Vishnu) ; it was the goddess of

matrimony, love and beau ty. It is a lso known under the names of
Lucifer and Hesperus. Venus was the wife Of Vu l canus. Its influence is
good , next to Jupiter it is our greatest benefic. Its note is A, its colour
yellowish-blue . It governs the u terus, the genitals, ovaries, the throat,
the Eustachian auditory tube , the veins, the breasts, the kidneys, jaws,
and chin, and its illnesses are often the consequence of an excess of
sensua l ity .

In the horoscope it represents elder sisters, wife , mother, sweetheart.
Its nature is feminine cold and humid.

Where Venus occup ies a strong position in the horoscope it leads
to early attraction to the other sex, to love of al l that is beau tifu l and
harmonious, but a lso to amusement and grati fication Of the senses. As
long as the . Venus-influence is not puri fied by Jupiter and Saturn, the
last mentioned qual ity rema ins the dominating one in Venus. Mars
(passion), the other pole of Venus, must be overcome in order that the
delicate action of Venus in al l its purity and beau ty can manifest. We
can d istingu ish 2 kinds of Venus-types, the high type, seeking

“beauty” ,

al l that is idea l istic and the low one, seeking sensuous pleasure .

Venus produces a fa irly short , plump body with a round dimpled
face, bright, kind eyes, dimpled chin, and pleasant voice ; its good
influence makes the native kind, helpfu l , philantrOpic, artistic ; but when
strongly a fflicted careless and sensua l . The latter especially when






62

which spurs him to action, and his perseverance , though it is not long
lived , he usually succeeds in a ll his enterprises. Where he does not
succeed, it is his superabundance of push and zeal , which often spoils
his own a ffairs.

The lower Mars-type , especial ly with a strong affl iction of Mars,
is decidedly dangerous, Often cruel , treacherous and always rude . If
Saturn moreover cooperates with (or fights) Mars in this direction, a

regu lar ru ffian or murderer type will be the effect.
With a higher-evolved Ego Mars, of course, does not express itself

in this way, but when in a strong position in the horoscope , it cannot
help impressing its stamp on the persona l ity viz . as impu lsiveness, pas
sionate-ness, sensuousness etc.

The call ing of those who come strongly under Mars has to dowith
iron and sharp instruments, or biting-ih flu ids; they are metal-workers

‘

smiths, stokers, butchers, barbers, carpenters, soldiers and military men
in general , surgeons, chemists, dentists.

Mars is the son of Zeus and Juno. As the god of war he symbolises force,
coura e and audacity es ecially. He is symbolised as a young, strong hero, or naked
in tu armou r w ith a elmet on his short thick hair, a sma l l mou th and deep
set eyes. He is armed with a shield and a s ear and cries and shrieks ; there is
quarrel and discord in his company and t at is why he is avoided by the gods.

Mars March. March-showers m. In both cases 6 is the ru ler
of the sign in which the Sun is in March and November.

j upiter

Type : Edward VII. He had ,2‘ rising and the ru ler 9L on the ascendant. A lso the
ex-president Taft. The expansive nature of 9; shows itself freely here.

The great benefactor of humanity. Jupiter is the symbol of wisdom .

With the old Greeks he is the father of the gods-Zeus ; with the Norse
Thor ; with the Egyptians Ammon ; with the Chaldeans and Baby
lonians Merodach or B el Merodach. He is the God of righteousness
and of justice . The temples of Ammon and Dodona a .o. were devoted
to him.

Jupiter governs the lungs, the l iver, blood, digestive organs, and
when afflicted it can cause disturbances and illnesses in these parts.

Taken in a genera l sense Jupiter governs the vegetable kingdom
and the ideal istic tendencies of man.

Of the native’s environment 2, represents the mostly optimist of the
family.

As soon as the lower qual ities in man have been suppressed it
evolves in man the imaginative consiousness, the fore-runner of intu ition
and inspiration. Jupite ’

r s symbol means that the spirit (here the intellect),
symbolised by D , has risen over the l imitations Of matter and thus
has become free in its imaginative j light.



Its nature is moderately warm and humid , its colour is violet and
indigo, its note is B .

Jupiter in the ascendant or in good aspect to the ascendant or to
Q and D is a token Of good health and of su ccess in life. As its action
is an enlarging one, so causing expansion, both on the material plane
and on the higher planes, it does not only enlarge our consciousness,
but i f it is placed in the house that represents the body viz . theascen
dant , it makes the body large and robust.
The Jupiter-type has a robust, well-bu ilt body, a tendency to stout

ness, a high forehead, is l ikely to be soon bald-headed . The eyes are

fu l l . The glance is open and prepossessing. The ha ir is usual ly fair and
the complexion is fresh and fair.

J up iter has 9 moons. It is by far the largest planet ofour solar system .

A strong position Of Jupiter, e.g. in the ascendant or M. C. or a

good aspect Of Jupiter to sun and moon or to the ru ler of the ascendant ,
further a lso a good aspect of 21 to 9 will improve a strongly afflicted
horoscope very much. The good things may l inger, but under a strong
Jupiter-influence they are sure to come at length.

The Jupiter-type therefore is jovial (Jove), hopeful , optimistic, he
trust “

s in his g ”
ood stars he says, and in using that expression he is

as a ru le ignorant of the real meaning Of the word.

Jupiter makes one kindly-disposed, humane, honest, devou t, popular
and esteemed , but if it receives strong a ffl ictions or is posited in a

sign that is inharmonious to its nature , it makes one proud , va in,

selfish, conceited, hypocri tical and the hone ’

sty of Jupiter s influence
changes into a tendency to follow the genera l current and to be on

good terms with everybody . The tendency of desiring to be jovial and
of l iking to impress forcibly is natura l to the Jupiter~type.

Jupiter is usu a l ly represented in the myths as siting on a gold throne with
lightning in his ri ht hand and a sceptre in his left and a diadem on hishead and
he has a long un ulating beard . The eag le at his feet is his favou rite bird .

Zeus is a lso represented sitting on the trunk of a tree, with a cock in his lap
as the symbol of the rising day. Under Saturn more will be said abou t Zeus asa god .

S aturn (b).
Type : Abraham Lincoln. {7 in the asc. gives him the typica l Satum ine appearance.

I) is the channel through which al l have to pass if we are to raise
our consciousness to a higher phase, and through imagination, intu ition
and inspiration come to a better conception of man and the Cosmos.

It “W ”
is the a tcher on the Threshold that makes clear to us what we

have to overcome of lower tendencies and qua l ities, before we may
pass the threshold . It is the purifier, the refiner, symbol ised in the B ible
as Sa tan, the tempter, represented in man as the lower self. It is
Ahriman, who gives us false ideas Of everything and makes us overlook
the real background Of things as is, indeed, expressed in his symbol



64

(b) i.e. matter over sou l (D). In other words he makes the spirit
appear as being subjected to matter and so l imites thought to matter.
Saturn, therefore, represents cold bra in-thinking.Assoonas, however the

lesson is learnt the spirit begins to master the lower self, the symbol
becomes reversed to the symbol of Jupiter where the sou l is put
over matter. Then, however, Saturn appears as a higher Jupiter viz, .

not as the bringer of imaginative consciousness, but as the bringer
of intu ition and by that the source of the knowledge collected in
previous l ives becomes opened to us and our view immeasurably
enlarged . Beforehand, however, we must by tra ining (thinking) develop
the latent bra incells in order that they can serve as channels for our
knowledge , gathered in former existences. Our physical bra ins therefore
are, here too, the instrument.
Saturn has 10 moons
Its colours are grey, black and green, its note is D.

’

So we see that Saturn s good influence leads to the highest goal ,
whereas its bad influence expresses itself in all forms of limitation,

such as coldness, hardheartedness, indifference , carelessness, avarice,
mistrust, fa lseness, cowardice, fear, despondency and indolence . Those
who come strongly under this lower Satum-influence have a most
miserable life and often end by committing su icide.
Such a one can be known out of a thousand by his lean, somewhat

bent body, black hair, thin beard , long and emaciated face , dark, gloomy
eyes that never look one straight in the face, but are usually fixed to
the ground. Whatever he begins, fails, he does not succeed in his
enterprises, and he spreads an atmosphere of misery and sadness round
him which repels people . Indeed , he prefers being by himself.

I) governs the bones and joints, l iver, spleen, and knees. In
a general sense we can say that the mineral kingdom is ru led by
Saturn and so it governs in our body those parts that serve for support
and a ffixing, such as the bones and calcerious formations. All that is
concrete , in our thinking also, comes under Saturn.

If Saturn is strongly posited in a horoscope and receives good
aspects, it gives perseverance , power of work, a deep thinking intellect,
the gift of concentration, intu ition and it endows the native with skill
and tact.

In M. C . especially and in the 4th house I) is very badly posited, if
it receives here bad aspects from other planets. In M. C . it causes great
d ifficu lties in all enterprises, the honour is continually threatened and
a fal l is pretty well sure, however firm the native may stand. In 4 , b
predestines a sad old age, usual ly in solitude, far from one’s people

1) The moons of Saturn move all in the direction of the plane Of its ring, except
J apetus whose cou rse forms a rather large ang le with that ring. Japetus rs abou t,

the size of our Moon and its ever changing brightness has caused men to accept
that it has an atmosphere, which made Proctor and other astronomers suggest
that it is inhabited.



and friends. In 2 it brings poverty ; in 5 childlessness or sorrow through
the children, in 6 i llness, in 7 it delays and works unfavourably on

marriage and on al l that belongs to the united l ife etc.

A strong Saturn is of great value in a horoscope. It makes a tru e
friend , on whom one can rely in all circumstances. He has become
thi ’

s under b s discipline .
Abraham Lincoln is a very striking Satum -type .
When the lower influence of Saturn has been overcome it give, s

great force by its favourable effect on thinking and by doing away with
all haste and impetuosity. Such a one has learnt to be silent and has
stopped all argumenting and criticism . He is a man of few words and
is seldom positive in his decision, but what he says is correct . By his
attitude “

he proves the truth of the proverb : S i le "

nce is power .

The majority of great men who have made the world speak about
them and have enlightened us by their knowledge, had Sa turn very
strongly in their horoscopes.

A few examples : Goethe had Saturn on cusp 1 , Napoleon in . 10,
P . B . Shelley had Saturn on cusp 4 , Abraham Lincoln on cusp 1 , Lord
Byron in 4 , Charles Dickens in 4 , Martin Lu ther on cusp 10, Edison has
b in 4 , Stanley in 1 etc.

This shows aga in the necessity of knowing the moral standpoint of
the native in judging his horoscope ; for with the low type a not very
w ell aspected Saturn in an angular house, especially l and 10, is very
unfavourable . Saturn in 10 is the token of a sure fal l , as it indeed
was in the l ife of Napoleon Bonaparte.
Satu rn is represented in mythology as an Old man, who holds in his right hand

a scythe and in his left a serpent tha t, cu rled in a circle, holds the end of his tai l
in hrs mou th .

Satu rn, the youngest Of the sons Titans) of Uranos, bereft his father Of the
reign and took the latt ’

er s place (physica(manifestation of the earth). It had been

p redicted tha t one of his sons wou ld drive him from the throne and he therefore
d evou red all his children (the overcoming Of the lower qu alities of b).

The youngest, however, Zeus was sav ’
ed by his mother. With hisbrothers

he lp Zeus began to wage war aga inst Chronos and the other Ti tans ; which war
ended by Zeus being conqueror (the sign 17 becomes reversed in the symbol Of
.Jupiter, Qt , instead of ma tter ru ling Spirit, spirit now ru les matter.

The Titans were thrown in the Tartams, i. e. the lower tendencies return to the
p lace whence they took their origin.

Zeus Shares the universa l empire with his brothers; he himse lf ets dominion
over the heavenly empire Poseidon gets the sea and the waters, lu to becomes,

r u ler of the nether-world and the abode of the dead , where he marriesPersephone,
d aughter to Demeter (Ceres).

Uranus (m).

Type : Emmanuel Swedenborg, he had 3 in strong aspect to G) and D.

This planet, also cal led Herschel a fter the d iscoverer, though it also
owes its origin to the Sun according to the nebular theory of Kant

5



66

Laplace d, oes not qu ite belong to our three-dimensional natural kingdom .

It forms just like Neptune , a transition from the third to the fourth
dimension and that is why the influences which come from these two
planets are so confused and weird . Both give the impu lse to the origination
of eccentric art which however incomprehensible and deformed for the
eye , yet is the transition, the fore-runner of the art of the fu ture that
will gradual ly ripen under the mysterious influence Of these planets.

The attempts made nowadays are nomore than the stammeringsofa child .

Only those who have developed their conciousness to a higher plane ,
can somewhat answer these high vibrations and there are but very few
of those . The greater part do not respond or respond but imperfectly.

The latter are those who have Uranus strongly posited but are not
evolved far enough to understand it. The resu lt is eccentricity, a great
independence and impu lsiveness, strange, sometimes silly manners and
habits ; it produces odd people that are often not understood by others
and usual ly scarcely by themselves. They act under impulses, ofwhich
they themselves do not know the origin. A clear example of this pecu liar
Uranus-action may undoubtedly be seen in some Fu turists, e .g. the
Cubists, who viz. produce a kind Of positive chaos, there rs something
hard and decided in it, which does not occur with the Neptune chaos
(see Neptune p .

If the individual is higher evolved the influence of Uranus will be
expressed, besides in oddi ty, in love to anything extraordinary, in a

strong attraction to occu lt science, astrology , love for antiqu ities and in
general for something that is closely connected with genius. Aeronautics
e .g. comes under m . With aeronau ts we Shal l always find a strong
Uranus- influence in the horoscope .

Van Maasdijk, the unhappy Dutch aeronau t, e .g. had m in I I (airy
Sign) D d and d in the loth house.
They excel by their inborn gifts of intu ition, inspiration, and cla ir

voyance in studies connected with life and nature in general ; they find
solu tions where others see no light. That is the reason why inventors
must be sought under the Uranus-types. Their l ives are as it were , in
a higher octave than that of ordinary men.

Thus it is that Uranus is looked upon as a higher octave ofMercury
that is why_that which is feeble , in the lower type is expressed in
thinking . It 1s the planet of the higher intellect. Neptune is in the same
way a higher octave of Venus and we see that the weakness with the
lower Neptune-type is expressed in feeling (see Neptune).
Uranus has 4 moons.

Uranus is in its action mal efic and sudden ; like lightning does its
action strike us and in quickness of activity it surpasses the planet
Mars, though it is much less malefic than Mars.

Astrologers, occu ltists, spir itu al ists, hypnotisers, aeronauts, electricians,
’

antiquari es come strongly under Uranus influence .

Uranus hates al l convention, is original in everything and very



impu lsive ; of course , much depends on the aspects and Of the Sign. In
a iry Signs it is best.
Uranus is counted with b and 6 among the malefics and su ch it is

in its bad aspects. Its conjunctions and para l lels can work in a ma lefic
way only on characters holding on to what is old . These aspects just
denote to them that they have to tear themselves away from old things

“
and from convention. Uranus accomplishes here its cal ling ”

of awakener
“ ”

or stimu la tor to broader, progressed things.

We cannot and must not think and act as our fore-fathers, however
good and beautifu l their thoughts may have been, we may learn by
their example , but must ever bear in mind that everything evolves and
widens, our consciousness and thinking as well . Uranus is the pioneer,
the reformer and anyone who Oooperates in this progressing spirit will
get to know Uranus not as a ma lefic but as a benefic. Uranus sym~

bolises the transition to a higher phase of consciousness and at the same
time the transition to a higher d imension, for together with the widening
of consciousness there will be revealed to us a world that ismanifested
in more dimensions t “

han the three of the physical world. New l ife
”

goes then a long new pa ths.

SO Uranus reveals to us a four~dimensional , new world (the astra l
world) which always surrounds us on all sides but which becomes
observable only under the awakening influence of this planet that
belongs to a higher octave .

That is why Uranus is also cal led the p lanet of cla irvoyance.

at rules the aura .

According to mythology Uranus arose from Chaos, the infinite empty space and
became heaven, which vau lts Gea (the earth thus bein

) g united in wedlock with
the earth. Therr chrldren were the TrtansOfw 1om Chronos (Saturn)was the youngest.

In Greek mythology we read that Satu rn has been castrated by Uranus. SO,

here too, we find hidden in a symbolic form the deep tru th that Saturn must do
away w ith his lower inclinations in order to rise to the higher consciousnessOfUranus.

Neptune (Qt).
Type : Leo Tolsty, he had t? in VII.

What has been said of Uranus relating to the height of itsVibrations
and the impossibility for nearly all mankind to respond norma l ly to
them , holds true for Neptune in a still higher measure . This planet also
is not purely in the three-dimensiona l condition in which our earth is
and in which our senses observe the surroundings ; hence the great
difficulty to answer its vibrations. Neptune , the Psyche, the Poseidon Of
the ancient Greeks, is in a still stronger measure the planet of chaos

,

than Uranus. That which is chaotic expresses itsel f here more in feeling
than in thinking, because 1

, as we saw , 3: may be regarded as a higher
octave of 9.

All that is nebu lous, vaqu e and indefinite comes under Neptune and
further also the fine arts, viol in-playing, (play of feeling). A good aspect



68

of is? with G) , D or 8 gives Often a tendency and talent for the fine
arts ; sometimes also, with highly evolved individuals it brings genius,
as may be Shown by various horoscopes of ingenious people .
Very little is known of this planet, seeing that it was d iscovered so

late as 1846 and the investigations therefore are of a relatively recent date .
Neptune has one moon.

Where it? occupies a strong place in the horoscope e .g. inan angle , one
might expect some peculiari ty ; sometimes a tendency or characteristi c
which the native doesnot like to give information about because it is a

riddle to himself.With aspects to Sun, Moon or Mercury we may expect a
l ittl e spark of genius, but as a lready sa id, only with the highly evolved
man. With the lower type Neptune has a chaoti c or perverse action.

In the ascendant 1? gives large , light blue eyes and a muchwrinkl ed face.
Psychometry, clairaudience and telepathy are qual ities which come

under this planet.
Neptune is no malefic, but because so few can respond to its good

influence , it is counted among the malefics by many.

A few examples of strong and harmonic Neptune-action we have
in the horoscopes of the two occu ltists Dr. R. Steiner and C.W. Lead
be ’
ater. The forme t °

r has 8 o ? in 5 in Pisces and the latter 8 and 0
’
o t °
? in 10 in Aquarius. With the former the action is expressed on

the menta l plane especial ly, with the latter on the astral .
Neptune is distingu ished from all other planets by its moon moving

round it in a direction opposite the movements of the moons of all
other planets. This is an interesting point for those who study esoterics.

Neptune is best in watery Signs especial ly in Pisces.

As Venus is called the planet of love , we may call its higher octave
Neptune , the planet of higher, universal love of mankind.

Many artists and wou ld-be artists come very strongly under the
perversed action of Neptune , expressed in showy dress, long ha ir,
and often a manifold “

use of the wet” of the earth. It seems as if they,
by strange conduct and dress want to make up for what they fall Short
Of in artisticity. They feel nebu lously, and interpret nebu lously and
vaguely in their accomplishments. The Sharp contrasts in l ine and tone
which are the characteristics under Uranus influence are never found
here ; that which is extraordinary and incomprehensible is expressed in
qu ite a different way with this mysterious planet.

Neptune, the God of the Sea , is represented as a stron man armed with a

trident and su rrounded by dolphins and tritons. Though he is own as an unfaith
fu l , adu lterous husband , he is highly honou red as a God , especia lly on the coasts.

His pa lace is situated in the depths of the sea at the coast of Nehaia and , in
the neigbou rhood of Samos, the twelve towns of the Asia-Minor-Jonio-union held
the festrval Of the Seagod Neptune.

The p laces Of the earth which are turned over by the wheels Of his chariot
,

(a gigantic shel l) he makes ferti le and , joined with the nymphs, he gives being to
a strong generation.

His living attribu tes are the horse, the bu ll, and the dolphin.






70

The S enses and the Planets.

Two senses
sense . he evolved.

Planetary Spheres.

An electric hypothesis.

How the planets can influence us, and what the real essence of those
influences are, I mean the spiritual substance of them , is a question that
Shou ld be answered by esoteric astrology, inasmuch as it can be put in
words. I can only say here that we must represent that which we ca ll
a planet to be an infinitesimal part of its rea l , almost infinite sphere
which influences us. It is only the physical centre Of its power, just as
we shou ld regard the visible Sun as the physica l centre ofpower, or as
the heart ofour planetary system . The real , higher spheres of the planets
permeate each other, and the Sun in its turn permeates the whole . The
Sun, as the heart sends its vital power (Prana) through thewhole body
Of the Cosmos, just like the human heart provides the body with the
nourishing blood.

“
As above so below.

Because we usually Observe with our material senses only and as these
play us tricks in a ll regards, we have a very l imited representation Of the
planets and we see only that small part which manifests physically to
our eye . The real planet escapes our observation and so it is with
everything around us ; we observe only the outer side of things ; the
rea l substance is beyond us.

SO we can imagine that the substance Of the planets permea tes the
earth i . e . manifests on and through our earth and in a ll that lives and
evolves. Thus we arrive at a better insight in its actions and influences.

A material explanation that may be of assistance , might be found
in the following :
Science teaches us that in and on the surface Of our earth constant

magnetic and electric currents move, ever subj ect to change.With regard
to our earth we speak Of positive and negative magnetic and electric
currents ; the earth has its magnetic poles etc. In Short we may
regard the earth as a gigantic electro-magnet, and surely the other
planets as well .
With this representation agrees what is known of the specific weight



of the earth, viz . i f we take the average of the spec. weighfiof that
part of the crust of the earth we know, (taking land and seas on an
average) we arrive at a S . W. of the earth’

s crust of about It has,
however, been shown that the S . W. Of our earth is abou t so the
concl ’

usion must be made that the greater part by far of our earth s
core must have a S . W. of at least —7 which is pretty nearly
that of iron.

We may expect the same with the other planets, seeing that they
originated from the same source :

on the understanding, however, that
here , through more or less denS1ty, the aggregate may di ffer conside
rably. It is only another condition of vibration and it is just this vibration
occurring in infinite change, that is the rea l reason of the maya , the
illusion, of all that is materia l ; it is the cond ition of vibra tion which
hides that which is rea l ly virtua l behind an unvirtual mask, the
godly thought crystal lized as it were . Something else however makes
this logical supposition a certa inty .

For what is it we see ? The meteorites which now and again
come down on our earth and which are looked upon as the remains
of a vanished heavenly body, consist principa lly of iron, SO-cal led
meteor~iron.

It is only reasonably to suppose that the component parts of our
cosmos (except a part of the Comets) took their origin from the Sun

(according to the Kant-Laplace theory) and the difference in composition
’

cannot be large therefore . We may take it that the earth s core a lso
consists of meteor-iron.

The sun constantly shines on the gigantic magnet of our earthwhich
means that this is constantly be ing laden with electricity .

All data , therefore , are supplied to compare as is pointed out in the
above treatise , our planets, to igantic electro-magnetic bodies (in a

merely physica l sense, of course?, exercising a reciproca l action on each
other, changing continually, according to the positions they occupy with
r egard to each other.

A S to the Sun I need only point out the fact tha t the violent electri c and
magnetic storms which sometimesmade such sad havoc here , appear to be
connected with the becoming visible Of solar spots, so the disturbances in
the electr ic emanation of the Sun (Prana) entai l disturbances in the electri c
equ ilibrium of the earth. So there is an electric current from the Sun to
the earth and logically a lso vice versa . The Sun sends out no hea t, but
its electric currents meet ’

resistance in the atmosphere and at the earth s
surface and consequently heat arises. The atmosphere acts as a pro
tection here , for the earth would be scorched , if the electric currents,

’

w ithout this protecting atmosphere , met the fu l l resistance Of the earth s
’

c rust. There where the earth s a tmosphere is very thin e.g. on high
’

mounta in tops, the effect of the Sun s rays on the skin ismuch stronger
than down below . Every mounta ineer knows this. The cause of it isnot
absolutely the reflexi ’

on of the Sun s rays by the snow on the fields Of ice.



72

As a matter Of course , i f we go further, a fter the existence Of
electri c sources in the Cosmos has been shown, we accept that these
electri c currents undergo modifications according to the sources the
centres of power) changing their places in relation to each other, (the
Aspects of the planets).
We should not imagine that the planetary influences serve to bring

only our earth and al l that is on it, to perfection. It wou ld be very
absurd to suppose that we signify so much more than the inhab itants
of the other planets, and that our planet, one of the sma l lest, would
signify more than all other planets taken together. Our earth in its
turn works at the evolu tion of our entire Cosmos and the other planets
experience our influence as well as we theirs.

We have enough to do in our earthly household withou t bothering
with these others, but Of those who doubt whether the other planets
are inhabited I shou ld l ike to ask i f they can imagine a single spot
where no l ife manifests itself in some form ?
Life is everywhere, evolution is everywhere , only the form and the

way in which it expresses itself , changes of course , according to the
given conditions, and these conditions on the other planets di ffer greatly
with those on our earth.

Our solar system is the obj ective origina l of al l that we can Observe
in nature as Copy and seeing that the solar system is subject to endless
and numerous changes, the number of different copies and reflections
of it is a lso endless endle, ss not only in man, but in animal and plant
as well and i f we look for i t, we can find in every plant, flower, and
animal the relation it bears to a certain constellation. Man, animal , plant
and mineral are , as it were , the symbols of the Cosmos in its di fferent
stages and it must be possible to indicate this in numbers.

The planets are in real ity in us and the reverse , we are in the
planets, just as the planets and the earth are in the Logos and the
Logos in us. Our physica l senses show us only that which we might
cal l the symbols of the Cosmos, viz . the physical mani festation of the
heavenly bodies. In the same way we might regard al l that we Observe
physical ly, as symbols of the real Essence of the things we cannot
Observe with our senses.

Everything around us in nature , down to the slightest atom Of matter
bears the stamp of the whole Cosmos, of the Sun and its planets

and according to a certa in part of the Cosmos expressing itself
stronger than the other parts, we may arrange the creatures of the four
kingdoms man, animal , plant, mineral , under the Sun, Moon and the
various planets. Paracelsushaspointed out theway todosovery ingeniously.

Our knowledge of physics improves ever and with every new dis
covery new prospects are opened. This was the case when Maxwell
discovered the connection between the velocity of l ight and the electric
and magneti c constants.



In the electron is found the negative atom-unit of electr icity i.e. in
the microcosmos of the atom is discovered the planets ; and in course
of time the positive atom-unit wil l possibly also be found , i.e. the Sun :

of the atom-microcosmos.

The atom with its electrons is believed by material science to be
the prototype Of a complete planetary system on a smal l sca le and in
this the electrons represent the planets, whi le the positive atom-unit,
which they are searching for, ofour atom-microcosmos, represents the Sun.

It is the great discovery of our century ; the electric theory Of matter
and we have been brought to accept adhesion, cohesion, magnetism ,

radiation to be products of electri city. And the Sun is the inexhaustible
source of all that electricity.

As the earth is being influenced , so does it influence in its turn the
other planets and their inhabitants. We must look upon the planets as

Spiri tual beings with a body, a sou l and a sp irit l ike man ; and together
with man these cosmic beings are included in evolution.

Tha t, in real ity, every heavenly body we know under the name Of
star , planet etc. is a l iving being, is a doctrine which has been pro
claimed at all times, from the philosophies of the olden times down to
the occu lt teachings of now a days. We find this doctrine also in the
various periods of time between these extremes. P la to says (I quote from
an English translati “

on) The Sun, the Moon, and each of th, e Stars, has
a distinct sou l inherent in itself or pecu liar to its own body. Each of
these souls invested in the celestial substance and in each of the visible
cele ”

stia l bodies, is a God 1
. )

However highly evolved and individua l ised , their life and their con
sciousness is in a sense , the l ife and the consciousness of the Logos.

However strange it may seem on the surface of it, to represent the
real planets as permeating each other, in rea l ity it is not so passing
strange if we accept the development of the physical planets according
to the Nebu lar-theory , in which the ring from which later the planet
contracted itself, represents the ou tward boundary Of the rea l planet. All
that l ies inside the ring, was therefore original ly the substance Of the
planet and this it rema ins, a lso when later there forms itself inside the
ring a centre of power that manifests on the thr ee-dimensional plane
the physica l planet.

The Essence of the Sun-Logos comprises and permeates all planets,
which we may regard as the organs Of the Sun-Logos, with the physical
Sun as heart.
The four elements in the Cosmos (1 earth, 2 water, 3 air, 4 fire)

correspond to 1 . sol id bodies, 2 . blood and lymph, 3. breathing , 4 . the
heat of the body Of the microcosmos, and so we might go on drawing
paral lels between Cosm “

os and man. As above , SO below
”

.

1) Plato and the other Companions of Socrates b Georg Grote. p. 418. vol. 111.
Further see abou t this the Secret Doctrine by H. P. lavatsky.



74

That man is a close copy of the Cosmos as it is at the moment
when man is born, does not appear only from the shape the body
takes and the qua l ities that typify the character, but also from the
possession of special characteristics of the sou l , such as psychism. We
find that those natures that are strongly psychic and magnetic are born
at a moment when the magnetic intensity of the earth is strongest i.e.

at midnight. The Sun is then in the horoscope near the lowest point
Of the Meridian (Nadir). We see that the D, 8, and 17 a lso, when they
are at this point at birth, bring out psychism . The Sun and the Moon,

however, being the more powerfu l .
It makes the native very negative and therefore receptive to all

changes in the magnetic conditions of the environment. The reverse
holds also good, viz . many planets in the M. C. makesman very positive.
Mars especia lly does this its colour is red and it strengthens the
red colour of the M . C.

Another proof might be taken from the experiments which Ca rl von
Reichenba ch l ) took W ith sensitive people, during a great number of
years and by which he discovered that both earth as well asman
Show the same colours in the aura . This aura appeared most distinct
with man when he lay in a horizonta l posture with hishead northward.

Then the aura round his head is blue , and at his feet dark red , and
in between transitions through greyish-blue at the right side to yellowish
green at the le ft side . The heavens also Show these colours, viz. the
magnetic blue in the Nadir (North), and the electric red in the Zenith
(South), grey on the eastern, and yellow on the western horizon.

The representation of the Sun and the planets in one, seems less
absurd to us when we understand that we can in no way rely on our

l imited material senses and that our representation Of time and space
is also false .

As it is, we cannot but connect our representations with conceptions
of time and space. It is so simple “

o say space is infinite”t i.e. nothing
can be added to it or subtracted from it but by stating this we
shou ld a t the same time conclude tha t it does not ex ist, and the same
holds true for time . Time and space are conceptions arising from the
faulty imaginative facu lty of the human spirit i.e. l imitations in our

power of observation. In real ity neither of them exist .
We may perhaps approach this conception i f we compare our Obser

vation of nature through the window Of a ra ilway-compartment of a
moving tra in to our ordinary Observation. In the first case we see

telegraph posts, and trees etc. rush past our view and we see them
one by one , but getting out of the tra in we see the whole and at rest.
The latter wou ld correspond to observa tion without the l imiting factors
of space and time , whereas Observation from the ra ilway compartment
window corresponds to the cond ition of our physical perceptive facu lty.

1) See Carl von Reichenbach : The 0d .



The Aspects.

By long Observation it is known that the planets and cusps of the
houses in certa in degrees of angu lar d istances exercise their strongest
influence . The earth with a ll that is on it, is constantly subjected to
these influences. The strongest action occurs under the following degrees :

S ign Aspect Degrees Influence
’ °
o Conjunction 0 Variable , dependent on the nature

3Of the planets.

8 Oppositi °
on 180 Inharmonious

D Square °
or quadrate 90

Z Semi °
-square 45

[D Sesqu iquadrate °
135

A T °
rine 120 Harmonious
Sextile °

60
M Semi~sextile °

30
°

7T Q u incunx 150 Inharmonious
P Para llel Variable .
Th ’

e o A
, 8 r

, D , a e very strong in their action [
, the 96

, A, Qweaker,
the M and very weak .

Many astrologers accept also
°

the Q u intile 72 harmonious.

°
the B i-Q u intile 144

These very weak influences, however, are uSual ly neglected.

With aspect is thus meant the distance between two planets, expres
sed in degrees. If two planets are placed , each in about the same degree
in a different S ign of the same trigon (see p . they form a trine
(A ) aspect

°
120 distance).

‘ ’ ° ‘ ’
For instance , planets in the fiery trigon V , Q , e.g. (5 12 V A (9

A or in the a iry trigon A [7
° °
6 A m 3

In the same way planets placed in a different zodiacal Sign, be
longing to the same trigon in abou t the same degree in the wa tery
trigon “1 , DC) or in the earthy trigon (it. up, 75) form a trine (A )
aspect , as they are at ab °

ou t 120 distance from each other.

When two planets are posited in two different signs of the same
°

tri on, the difference in degrees being 15, they f °
orm a 135 (120

15 [LJ
°

aspect e .g. 3 52 [
° ° °

Q 18 ,2‘ or 2 23 D 17 "1 .
,

Planets in about the same degree in different Signs of the three
crosses (see p

°
. 34) form a square aspect (D), i .e. 90 distance ; or an

opposition aspect (8) when the planets are placed opposite , at ha lf a
c ircle ’s di ‘

stance . The ca rd ina l cross is formed by the sig ’
ns V .gs, £ 1 , 76 ,



76

the fixed cross by £1 . "1 . and the mutable cross bij 11 1117
, , 3c.

When a planet is in one of the last degrees of a zodiaca l Sign, it
can form an aspect to a planet in one of the first degrees of another
trig ° °

on so e.g. D 2 8 is about 120 from °

(9 29 the distance is
° ‘ ’

6 2 V forms a Cl aspe °
ct to 91 29

An aspect need not be fu l l (complete) to come into Operation ; the
action of the planets on each other can be Observed, though there is
a difference of some degrees. The extent Of the Sphere of influence
varies for each planet , experi ence having taught that a special l imit
(orb) 1) has to be accepted for each planet. These limits (orbs of the
planetary aspects) will be mentioned in one of the fol lowing chapters.

(See p .

It is thus not difficul t to compu te in a horoscope when planetswill be in
c °
onjunction (d ) or when at abou t °

45 or 60 distance from each
othe ’

r and so take down the o M , A or etc. aspects in the scheme of
aspects, (see chapter J udging the Horoscope, birth-scheme p .

When we regard these aspects. or angles closer, we find that they
are all angles of regu lar polygons described in a circle. The angle is
formed either by the sides at the circumference or by the radi i drawn
from the centre to the an le °

s. So is the angle of 30 characteristic of
°

the regu l
g

ar dodecagon, 45 of the reg. octagon ; 60 Of the reg. triangle,
°

90 of the reg. quadrangle ° °
; 120 of the reg. hexagon, 135 of the reg.

decag ’
on, and the 8 and o correspond to the straight line .

It is universal ly known that natu re works a long ma thema tica l l ines ;
we see this a . o. in the ratio Of forms of crysta l ; we see it in the ratio
of the golden cut (1 to 16 2) which recurs everywhere in the four
kingdoms Of the Cosmos as well as in the distances of the celestial
bodies which constitute the Cosmos (more abou t this later).
We can conceive how in a glass Of water when freezing, the invi

sible , ethereal dynamic rays are present, along which we see the ice
crystals form.

Further this can be traced in the forms of crystal Of most metals e .g.

in which all the above-mentioned angle -
s are to be found.

This may throw some light on the way inwhich the planets influence
us. If we represent the Sun and the planets as one whole body (Of
course no 3 dimensional physical body is meant) the component p
of which are harmoniously arranged in the real (etheric) body of the
Sun and we imagine that in this enormous body of the Cosmos the
l ines of splitting which we find in crystals are present, we begin to

1) With orb is meant the lim it Of an aspect, within which the action ofa planet
is observab le.

and D 1 1° z form a A Q . The Q anOD are within the orb Of a A aspect .






78

We divide the aspects into harmonious and inharmonious ones and
we know already that they are cal led thus a fter the nature of the action
they produce . We saw that this cosmic influence cannot be inharmon
ious in rea l ity, but that we feel them such by our own disharmony,
which expresses itself in i llness of our body, or d isturbances in our

consciousness, either in our thinking or in our emotions.

Harmony and disharmony are, just like good and had, only the
Opposite poles of the same qual ity, the evil comprises the abuse of
the good and when we have been excessively gu ilty of transgressing
in former incarnations, we find it denoted in this incarnation in our

birth-horoscope as an inharmonious aspect.
If we in short characterise the planets as follows :

Q the Higher Self (Ego) b Egoism ,

8 Intellect at Higher Intellect
9 Love it? Higher Love , and
d Passion D the transmitter, the temporary self .
21 Devotion (personal ity),
it will not be hard to arrive directly at a rough conclusion concerning
the aspects of the various planets.

A D aspect between Q and I) (G) D b) is expressed e .g. in the
.

character as selfishness and in al l our experiences in l ife , as l imitation
and hindrance (adversity) ; SO we may rightly suppose that we having
cu ltivated that selfishness in former l ives e .g. by being too l ittle
ready to help others have put the stone that hinders our progress
(l imitation) in our way ourselves. It indicates a conflict between our

higher self and the lower tendencies, in our past and the latter proved
to be stil l too strong for submitting willingly. In this l ife we sha ll often
knock aga inst that stone till we have learnt our lesson.

A A aspect between C) and I) (Q A b) Shows us the good side , the
opposite pole Of limitation. This aspect is expressed in the character as
frugal ity, Simplicity, earnestness, power of will , concentration and depth
of thought , qual ities cu ltivated in former l ives, by doing our duty
with punctual ity under any circumstances.

Thus a Cl and an 8 aspect between (5 and 9 will denote a conflict
between passion (d ) and love and the stone which we on account
of this, find in our way, keeps causing new confl icts which are to lead
us to u ltimate victory over that which is lower.

These examples will suffice for a general il lustration.

The inharmonious aspect indicates an abuse of the good, in former
l ives, it indicates a resistance we have to overcome, a stumbling block.

The harmonious aspects, on the other hand , indicate a right use of
the good and indicates help , and sources of help , we have created for
ourselves in former l ives and from which we can now profit (A trine,
sextile aspect).



79

We have la id ou t our road of live ourselves and we have to blame
ourselves tha t this road often has steep slopes and sharp rocky points,
bu t we a lso owe it to ourselves tha t the road is not void of agreeable
shady restingp la ces and sp lend id vistas which renew our strength as we

go on.

We now understand why Karma signifie
“

s action and why in our

birth-horoscope we have to see the road which we must wa lk during
this incarnation.

Thus does astrology teach us as clear as day that our chara cter
makes our destiny, but we must take the word character in a somewhat
different meaning from the one it it usua l ly used in, we Shou ld
consider it a temporary dress in which the Ego is wrapped for this
earthly life . Astrologers are sometimes incl ined to turn up their noses
at one whose horoscope has many inharmonious aspects. It is tru e
this often is a proof Of a less elevated character, but it may also be
a proof of great strength of the Ego which had at its incarnation the
courage to take up a cross that wou ld be too heavy for many people .

It ”
did so with a view to progress qu icker, by “working out Karma

as much as possible in this l ife .
That such a one has a hard l ife and will have to struggle with a ll

kinds of adversities need scarcely be mentioned ; he has the strength
for it and will conquer in the end, or succumb under it, but neverwill
his adversities and hard experiences seduce him to do a mean deed
and this it is that distingu ishes him from the low type with a very
inharmonious horoscope -

, who has not yet taken himself in hand.

“
There is no dea th wha t seems to us transition,
This l ife of morta l brea th,
Is but a suburb of the Life Elysian,
Whose porta l we ca ll Dea th.

LONGFELLOW .



Ou tlines Of the Aspects.

Reckoned from both upwards and downwards.
We might now treat the aspects separately in their development.

The Conj unction (d ) means the beginning of a new cycle ; the old one

is finished , it has brought u s its experiences and we begin a new ; so it is a

commencing. Whether this commencing will be harmonious or inharmonious
depends on the nature of the planets which form this aspect. (This will be
gone into more fu lly in the Chap. The Aspect-Influence ofthe Planets).Wemay
See in it a tendency of character which is going to be formed, bu t in many
cases a tendency of character that had already qu ite ma tured on a higher

“
p lane and only awaited an impu lse to spring forth on the physical plane.

(30
°
51 ) represents the tendency of character which has

developed , bu t which has not yet become a characteristic because it is not
yet hardened in the purifying fire Of trial. This aspec t is expressed more as

1
) Aarde Earth, Conjunctie Conjunction, Op ositie Opposition, Drie

-hoekrg Trine, Vierkant Square, Sextiel Sexti le, alt-Vierkant : Semi-square.



contemplation than as action. Only with very progressive natures it can trans
pose itself already in harmonious action, because here the pu rifying fire of
the next aspect has already worked.

The S emi-squa re aspect (45° 4) represents the first d ifficulties on the road
and it will depend on the overcoming or no of those d ifficu lties, which work
more on the mental and astral planes than on the physical, so on our

thinking and feeling whether the tendency of character will become a

characteristic or no. This aspect brings us opportunities which, however, end
in d isappointments.

The S extile aspect (60° Here the tendency has become a harmonious
characteristic and this becomes a strong source of help in life. This aspect
brings us Opportunities for our fu rther growth and helps us onward . But in
order to become an inseparable part Of ou rselves, it must be subjected to :

The Square aspect (90° D). Here a pu rifying takes place, not principally
on the mental and the astral planes, bu t especially on the physical plane,
and as the resistance is greatest here, this aspect promises a hard struggle,
resistance in its strongest form . A ll we try to accomplish is prone to fail,
because we have to overcome that resistance everywhere. Tha t which is high"

est in us, shoul d grow and our selfishness Shou ld decrease, die ou t. The El
a spect is the aspect Of dea th and the new l ife coming out of it .

Tr ine aspect ( 120° A). The characteristic comes forth from the battle vic~

torious and has now become a fixed and inseparable possession of the Ego
unalienable and so a stron support on his way onward harmony.
Here the fru it of a victory ga ine with difficu lty, are gathered.

The S esqu i
-

quadra te aspect (135° we may regard as a second pu rifying
on the astral plane, after the characteristic has stood the test of the physical
plane and now equ ipped with experience, it can go onward with more cer

ta inty and arrive at a marriage in the Opposition.

In the Qu incunx- aspect (150° K ) the same is repeated on the mental
plane and in

The Opposition (180
°
8) it must appear whether the obtained quality by a

mu tual understanding, a combination with another, can arrive at a harrnonious
union and thus rise up high, or whether the resu lt will be an inharmonious
confusion.

The Aspect-Influence of the Planets.

Very harmonious is the d and P. between the benefics 21 and 9.

Harmonious is the d and P. of 21 and £2 to G) , D , or 8.

P ’
artly harmonious and pa rtly inha rmonious are the c and P. of 21.

and $2 to d , b, or 111 . The same aspect with t? . is wholly dependent
in its expression on the moral standpoint of the na tive .



82

Inha rmonious are the d and P. of d , b and 131 to G) , D, and 8. O f
151 the same may be sa id as of

Th ’
e 0 and P. of d to I) is inha rmonious.

The d and P. of I; to 131 is harmonious.

6 causes always heat, impu lse, passion, acute inflammation, and
works qu ickly.

I) causes a lways cold , l imitation, contraction, egoism , seclusion and
works slowly.

at comb ines the qual ities of these two and works very sudden, but
is less ma licious in its effect.

In good aspects 6 gives besides impu lsiveness courage and
strength ; while I) , besides slowness gives caution, perseverance
and punctual ity.

H gives a lways inventiveness and original ity.

The inharmonious aspects of the ma lefics become less unfavourable
if one or both is posited in its (their) own house or Sign.

Viewed from an esoteric standpoint, the parallel is of qu ite another
influence than the but the observable effect is abou t the same
only weaker. The P. expresses more a tendency than a characteristic.
With the 8 athe judgment depends especial ly on which Of the planets

is the stronger ; e.g. when with an 8 d to Mars by position in
house and Sign, is stronger than the Sun, the impulsiveness, rudeness,
over—activity , pride and restlessness which this Opposition brings abou t
will be controlled with greater d ifficu lty than when the G) is the
stronger. (See Chap . Planets in Strong or in Weak Positions p .

With d 8 $2 e .g. disharmony exists and a fight will ensue between
'

the higher (9) and the lower emotions (d ) or passions and unless 2 is
more strongly placed than 6 , there is l ittle chance that the lower nature
will be conquered.

If the aspect is waxing the difficu lty will be greater than in the
Opp °

osite case when it is wani °
ng. 6 9 2: and 21 15 é a waxing A

aspect , the Sun moves qu icker than £8, and will overtake 21 a fter
some time “

and make the A fu l l” .

° °
at 15 X and 2 18 R" 3c is a waxing 96 aspect ; for though 9, the

qu icker planet, has a lready passed the aspect, after some time the aspect
be ’

comes fu l l aga in by 9 s retrograde movement.
O f course much depends on the degree of power Of will (taken in

the highest sense) that the Ego has developed to which degree an

inharmonious aspect will be expressed.

‘

An aspect from fixed Signs Offers far greater di ffi cu lties than from
cardinal or mutable signs. A El aspect from fixed signs e.g. might be
the expression of a fau lt hardly possible to be conquered in one incar
nation. A El aspect from mutable signs seems to denote more a bad
habit which can be broken.

The same may be said of the Z and G aspects, only the expression
is mu ch weaker.



The inharmonious aspects indicate a part of the Karma that must
be worked out ; the positions Of the houses and the signs indicate the
other part .
The harmonious aspects as the A 96

, and the good P ’
. and o denote

good qualities ga ined in former l ives ; they help us through l ife.
A good aspect between e .g. (D and D or of the Q resp . D and

91 or Q, or between 21 and 9 may improve an otherwise very badly
a fflicted horoscope , provided with many bad aspects etc. considerably.

‘

The aspects of the Slow planets 151 and tit must be regarded from
a broader point of view ; they denote less persona l qual ities than
influences that work for some years and a ffect the whole world .

The aspects (9, D and 6 to the four angles of the horoscope and
of any planets in the ascendant and in M. C. give the ke -

y note of the
character .

The strength of the aspect plays, of course, a great part . By expe
rience one has got to know the bounds within which an aspect exercises
its a cti °

on ; e .g. a C1 need not be exactly 90 to exercise an action as

such and this holds tru e for the other aspects as well .
A S the orbs 1) of the planets is taken :

°
The orb for a P. 1

'

°
8 and d 12 for G) to D

°
8 and d 10 for (D or D to the planets

°
A and [3 8

°
n 7

°
A and G 4

°
51 2

The aspects that fal l exactly within the outer bounds of the orb
are very weak, but the action Of them may be strengthened by another
pl °
anet °

, e .g. C) 12 and [3 2 76 form a very weak Opposition, but i f
we have °

at the same time D in 6 41. the 8 G) and [7 becomes much
strengthened by the D aspect which the moon forms with the Sun and
with Saturn.

Mundane Aspects

SO far we have only occupied ourselves with what are known as

zod ia ca l aspects.

There is, however, another group of aspects viz . the mundane.

1) By orb is meant the limit of an aspect, within which the action of a planet
is observab le.

2) For the beginner it is wiser to leave the mundane aspects out of account,
they are of secundary influence .



84

For these aspects the positions of the planets in the houses they occupy ,

are considered, and not the distance as reckoned by number of degrees
of the Zodiac . In every horoscope is e .g. the 1st with the 4th house,
the 3rd with the 6th etc. in square mundane aspect ; no matter how
many degrees they are distant. The l st house is in sextile aspect with
the 3rd , and in trine aspect with the 5th etc. Planets which are in the
l st and in the 4th house are cal led in square aspect with each other.
Planets in the houses 2 and 4 are in mundane sextile aspect etc.

that is at least, if their positions are a t proportiona l d istances from the
cusps e .g.

Let us take the planet 1? Oj in the ascendant (horoscope p .

It °
is abou t 4 under the cusp of the ascendant. If now e .g. at a pro

portiona l distance under the cusp of the 1 1 th h
‘

ouse ’

(V the planet
9 were fi?

, t and 9 wou ld be in mundane sextile , whi le at the same
time they are in square zodiaca l aspect by the falling away of 8 .

By proportiona l d istance is meant the fol lowing : The l st house in
°

our example horoscope is only (f
° ’ °

15 rom 19 45 93 5 but the
°

1 1 th house ° ° ° ° °
3 30 12 45 (f

‘ ‘
rom 27 V 12 I I ). If therefore

the d istance from 1? to cusp l is the d istance from 9 from cusp 1 1
(under it

°

) must be
°

3 X 4 12 in order to be at a proportional
distance and thus exactly in mundane sextile with Qt . Here a lso, orbs
are permitted .

So it may happen that at the same time there is a favourable
mundane and an unfavourab le zodiaca l aspect, or the reverse, between
2 planets and in that case they are considered to neutral ise each other.

(More on this later) Likewise we have mundane trine aspect,
mundane opposition, mundane square , mundane sesqu iquadrate, mundane
semi-quadrate, mundane semi-sextile aspects.

A mundane Para llel is when 2 planets are at proportional equa l
di °

stances from the Meridi ’

5 ‘Y’ °
an. 9 26 on 1 distance above the cusp

of the 1 1th house wou ld be in mundane P. with a planet a l ittl e less
t °
han 1 beyond the cusp Of the 9th house.
The difficul ty with the mundane houses is the exact moment Of birth

and t herefore the knowing precisely of the various cusps. If one is not
absolutely sure of this, it is wiser to leave the mundane aspects out
of account. Mundane aspects formed with the progressive planets, may
in some cases by the action they exercise, put us on the track of the
exact time of birth.

A mundane is 1 house apart .
as 2 houses 1,

A 4
n

A ” I f n

3
O I 41
P. is equal distances to the right and to the left Of

M. C . or I . C.






86

which the Ego has chosen his special centre in order to learn from
experi ence environment.
This shows that the astrological compu tation ought not to be helio

centric but ego-centric, that is to say, the place ofbirth is the starting
point. Many very learned astronomers refuse to conceive this, they
believe in their conceit that they live on the Sun, not knowing how ego
centric they are bound to their immediate surroundings"
The l st house is the part which is under the rising degree and so

under the eastern horizon (ascendant) the 12th house adjoins it and
is exactly above the eastern horizon. The other 10 houses are m between
successively, SO that the cusp of the 4th house is the Nadir, the cusp
of the 7th the Descendant and the cusp of the loth the Zenith oe . C.

These 4 houses are called the angles Of the horoscope.
The Sign and the degree on the cusps of the houses indicate their

size , which, according as one removes from the equator, differ more .

In high latitudes, i.e . near the North~ or South-pole , sometimes more
than half the vau lt of heaven may be occupied by one zodiacal Sign ;
and this is in this special case shared by at least three houses, whereas
in the adjoining part of the heavens the signs appear closely crowded
together and there e .g. thr ee Signs may occur in one house . At the
latitude of England , for instance, two signs at most can occupy one

house, in other words in England not more than one Sign can drop ou t
of any one house .

Everything in nature repeats itself with regu lar intervals. Just as
e .g. in the growth of the human embryo we can fol low the whole
development of man in all his periods during the whole evolu tion of
the earth, from his first origin up to his p 1

resent state , ) so does the
daily rotation of the Earth upon its axis and the passing of the Meridian
by the v ’

ar ious houses, give us a symbol ic image of man s l ife during
one incarnation. Let us take e .g. the 4 angles of the horoscope.

The l st house or ascendant represents the moment when man ou t of the
spiritual world descends into matter and then becomes subjected to a ll that
is related to matter. That is why the first house in the horoscope represents
the personal character and the physica l body. W e see that planets placed in
this house, have an extremely strong influence on the physical life Thishouse
corresponds to the moment of sunrise.

The loth house symbolises the time when man takes part in the ful l life.

The material as well as that which is Spiri tual and emotiona l play the principal
p ‘
art in turn. Life expresses itself in its fu ll force, the Zenith is reached and
therefore does the Ioth house or M. C. represent in the horoscope power, glory,
honour, business success, promotion etc. and therefore do the planets which
occupy this house have the greatest influence on all these matters. This house
corresponds to the moment when the Sun reaches the meridian altitude.

The 7ih house symbolises ma ture age when the passions and desires
,

1) See the Chapter Embryology and its bea r ing on Astrology.



87

become conquered and the higher man begins to ru le the lower inclina tions.

He begins to understand that he is not there as a separate being, apart from
a ll other lives, but begins to feel one with the one Life that animates all .
Tha t is why in the horoscope the 7th house denotes the house Of union, of
marriage, Of partnership etc. It is the point Of sunset.

The 4ih house symbolises old age, the time when the native has passed
the period of earthy experiences and begins to prepare for his life in the next
(astra l) world.

So this house is the one tha t denotes the rela tions and circumstances at
Old age and further it has relation to permanent possessions.

Permanent possessions mean in this case , as will be understood, the
mundane or worldly (materia l) Side of experiences, ga ined throughou t
the earthy life, which are transmu ted into permanent ta lents and

”
chara cteristics and so become “permanent possessions of the Ego.

This is the point of the lowest position of the Sun, the Nad ir .

Thus each house has its symbolic meaning. We see al ready by
the foregoing that the houses have to do directly with the materia l
Side of l ife and taken as a whole we may say that they represent the
body, with the l st house as the specific expression of it.
According as the body has more puri fied tendencies, the influence

of the planets can express through the houses on higher planes than
the physica l as well , and this is especial ly the case in the houses 4 ,

6 , 8 and 12 which are called occu lt houses.

SO the body is expressed in a twofold way in the horoscope ,
indirectly by the zodiaca l signs and directly by the houses and we
find ever a working together of the two. SO does the Sign A ries cor

respond to the l st house, Taurus to the 2ud , Gemini to the 3rd etc
in other words the first house governs the head, the second the throat
and neck , the third lungs, shou lders and the twelfth house
the feet . This secondary action also extends to a ll that comes under
the respective houses, e .g. an aspect in 8 will exercise a secondary
a ction on our financia l circumstances (2nd house) an aspect in up
(nutrition) will have a b -

y action on our health (6th house) etc . The

p rimary influence Of the signs, however, rema ins the principa l by fa r .

The Twelve Houses as different Fields Of Activity.

We have seen a lready that there is a close connection between
these 12 parts in which the horoscope is divided and the 12 Zodiaca l
signs. Each house represents a more definite field of activity by which
the Ego tries to gain his experiences and this field of activity is most
closely connected with the Sign that is represented by the house . The
chief di fference between them is, that the houses denote experi ences



88

on the physical plane and the signs denote the extent of our feelings
and emotions, including the intellect.
So we may regard the O s resentin bod and the siggs

M W . Both serve as instruments for the sp irit, the
Individuah y, t e Ego, to express itself. This Ego is symbolised in the
horoscope by the planets as the representatives and co-operators of
the Sun, the centre from which all consciousness is born.

Taken in this way we must regard the first house as the lowest
plane by which the first zodiacal Sign Aries expresses itself, the second
house, in the same way corresponds to Taurus, the third to Gemini , the
fifth to Leo, the eighth to Scorpio etc.

The expression of a planet, either through a sign, or through a house,

differs only as to the plane on which the action is felt ; we might
compare it to an emotion expressed in form .

The higher an individua lity rises in evolu tion, the more he rises
above the form , the more independent of it he grows ; from this
it follows that a highly developed Ego will observe the expression of
a planet through a house otherwise than a low developed Ego, and now
we can imagine that there is a stage on which a highly developed Ego
can observe the action of a planet through a house in the same way
as a lower developed Ego feels it by expression through the Sign corres‘
ponding to that house , so it is a di fference in consciousness. The G) in the
5th house with the highly developed individual will express itself in
that case the same as the Q in Q with the lower developed Ego,

and 2 in the 2nd house with the former wi ll be asQ ia ith the latter.

e .g. G) in 5th house with a developed ego means that the native wil l
be fai thful] from inward impu lses (Q )
(9 in 5 with a less developed ego means that he is fond of

pleasure (5th
9 in 2 with a developed ego means a .o. that he is peaceable
2 in 2 with a less developed ego means a .o. that he is fond of his

possessions (2nd his money.

This must a lways be borne in mind in judging the place of the
planets in the houses.

The houses in the first place bear on our material existence and on
the conditions connected with it, on the states in which the Ego
will be placed during his earthly course , that is, his path of l ife
and the planets posited in them , plus the aspects they receive , denote
the .obstacles and the helps it will meet with.

First the houses tell us the vehicle (I) (the body) the Ego has chosen
for this pilgrimage and the tendencies Of character and characteristics (I)
which it brings with it, as the resu lt of former descents into matter ;
they further tell us regarding his native country, his teachers and parents
(IV), 7 Of his contemporaries, his brothers and Sisters (III), of the
intellectua l facul ties he is endowed with (III), of the attempts he






‘

XII : the end, the d 1 ing out of his earthly desires and wishes,
puri fication (c.

After this genera l treatise by which one can see the relation between
the various divisions of the heavens we will look closer into the
meaning of the houses, separately.

Meaning of the 12 Houses.

Now we will as fu lly as possible interpret what each house can

represent.
lst h '

ouse (V ) denotes the ou tward appearance and the character in
general . Of the body it denotes the head , the bra in and the general state of
health. In general it shows the personality and the struggle for life, and also

’

the na tive s actions.

2nd house (8 ) indicates the financial circumstances, unfixed possessions,
peace and liberty. It influences our feelings and emotions.

v

3rd house (I I ). Brothers, Sisters, relatives, neighbours, the educatiorirghbfi
jou rneys, study, manuscripts, letters, ability. It has a strong relation to the
intellect and the nervous system.

4th house (Q ). The house and home life, inherited tendencies, our envi
ronment during the la tter part of ou r life. Fixed possessions. It also indicates
the father and our rela tion to him. Occu lt house, bearing on physical life and
death.

5ih house Is related to pleasures, love-affairs, entertainments, specu
lations, games, c ildren. It is opposed to the 1 l th house and as it were the
fu lfilment of it (hopes and wishes).

6ik house The house of sickness ; it has also bearing on servants,
inferiors, service, dress, hygiene, care for the body in general. An important
house for those who have to do with nursing and treatrnent of the Sick.

7th house (A ) is related to marriage, partnership, society, social life in
genera l. Moreover, public Opponents, prosecu tions. It represents in a sense

the individuality, as opposed to the l st house, that of personality.)

8ih house (111 ) has to do with death and all that is related to it, such as

inheritances, legacies, wills. The Sign on the cusp and the aspectsofthe planets
placed in VIII or of the ruler of VHI Often indicate the nature of the death
Of the physical body. Occu lt house.

9 ih house Philosophy, religion, teaching, education and everything
connected to tha t. A lso long journeys in foreign countri es. It bears on the
abstract way of thinking as Opposed to the 3rd , the house ofconcrete thinking.

Dreams and visions come also under this house.



91

loth house (3 ) is related to honour , worldly power, fame, promotion,

cal ling or position and also indicates the moral standpoint of the native. This
’

house is supposed to represent the native s mother, as the fourth represents
the father. Many astrologers, however, reverse this order and take the fourth
for the mother and the tenth for the father, considering, tha t the father has
much to dowith influencing the choice Of profession or cal ling. Bu t it shou ld
be noted that with parents the mother frequently takes the lead .

11th house (z ). Friends, hopes and wishes. The na ture of friends and
acquaintances is expressed by the sign on the cusp and by any planet posited

’

in the house. It denotes the na tive s attitude towardshumanity —, hisharmony
or disharmony with his fellows.

12th house The house of trial , anxiety, care, and limitation. It is
related to prisons, convents, hospitals, luna tic asylums, to anything tha t
denotes seclusion and limita tion. He must learn here, to regard himself not
as a separate being, bu t as a part Of the Whole, inseparable from it and ever
in contact with it. Occu lt house.

Here fol lows briefly the meaning of the houses in which is shown
the relation Of the zodiaca l signs to the parts of the body.

l ‘
st h ’

ouse V the head temperament, ou tward appearance Of the native.

zud house 8 throa t his going into material life his possessions, fi, nan

cial circumstances.

3rd house 11 lungs his short journeys, his rela tions, specially brothers,
sisters, cousins, his correspondence, study.

4th house stoma ch his . home, inheritance from parents, his father,
his resting place and circumstances at the close of life.

5th house Q heart his spirit of enterprise, his passion, love-affairs,
children, specu latrons, initiative, pleasu res.

6th house up bowels his heal th, nu trition, interiors, enforced labour, his
relation to servants.

7th house A kidneys marriage, unions and separations, husband or

wife, partners, Opponents and the public.

8th house 111 genera tive system sex inclinations, school Of life inh
, eri

tance, legacies, death.

9th house ,2‘ thighs his longer journeys, widening Of view, his ou tlook
on life, philosophy.

loth house 78 knees his position or station, his name, honour, calling,
conduct, public appearance.

1 1th house 3 lower leg his seeking after support from friends, hishopes
and wishes.

12th house 3c feet the unseen difficul ties, secret enemies, prosecu tions,
hospitals, imprisonment, his going down as regards the world .



92

From the foregoing it follows that the native’s relation to his uncles
and aunts (they are the brothers and sisters of his father) is indi cated
by the 6th house ; the 6th house being the third (brothers) from the
4th (father). The possessions of the partner are indicated by the 2ud house
(possessions) from the 7th (partner), that ’

is the 8th house ; the arth er s
brothers by the 9th house or the 3rd (brothers) from the 7th partner).
In this way we might arrive at many other conclusions.

The houses are divided into :
Card ina l (angu la r) houses 1 , 4 , 7 and 10.

Succeedent 2 , 5 , 8 and 1 1 .

Cadent 3 , 6, 9 and 12 .

In the angu lar houses the action of the planets is strongest.
In the cadent houses the action is weakest .

’

The succeedent houses action is in between.

The houses have their orbs, just l ike the planets. The orb for a
‘

cusp with a short rising Si
’

gn (76 , DC V I
, 8 I

, , ) for all countries
with Northern Latitude °

is 5 and for a cusp bearing a slowly rising
Sign 51 " A

, V, , m , it is For countrieswith Sou thern Latitude
it is the other way about, v iz . the qu ickly rising signs there are Slowly
rising Signs here , and the reverse .
Accordingly, a planet ° °

e .g. in the 5th house 5 or 8 or less (dependent
on the sign) from the cusp , is reckoned to be in the 6th house , as to its
acti °

on. For the Ascendant 12 at least may be taken, so a planet which
°

is e.g. 10 above the rising degree in the 12th house , influences the
Ascendant and therefore body and temperament.

The nea rer the cusp , the stronger the action which the planet
exercises in the part icu lar house.
The planets on or near the cusp of an angu la r house exercise the

greatest influence during the whole l ife .

Calcu lation of the Horoscope.

At the end of this book there is given a Table of Houses for the
latitude Of °

London (51 which can a lso be used for the northern states
°

of America . A table for New-York '

(40 43 N.) may also be used for
San-Francisco, Denver etc . For Sou thern Canada take the tables for
Liverp °

ool or G lasgow (resp
’ ° ’

. 53 25 and 55 53 N. Lat. and for e .g.

°
Los Angelos and San Diego the table for 37 N . Lat. see Raphael ’s
Tables of Houses For the Northern part of England and for Scotland

’

(53
° 25 N .) the table Of houses for Liverpool is to be used ; it wil l

be found in the ephemeris for any year.

1) Pub lished by W. Fou lsham Co. London, price 1 Sh.






94

utes. The local time there is 20 minutes later than the offi cial standard
time . This example will su ffice for all cases.

The following standard times are accepted ,

Gr . T. hour Gr. T. hour
TheNetherlands(Amsterdam) Western Australia 8.

Middle Europe 1 . Eastern 10.

Bastem 2 . New-Zealand
British India TheEastcoastofAmerica— Gr.T. 4 .

Burma Eastern part 5.

Hongkong 8. Centra l 6.

Japan 9. Rocky Mountains 7 .

South—Afr ica 2 . TheWest coast ofAmerica
Batavia (loc. time) (Canada also)
Philippine Islands 8. Hawa i

The difference between Greenwich time and the local time at the
Hague is about 20 minu tes. It is 20 minu tes earlier at Greenwich, so

the time we must take according to Gr. T. (Greenwich time) is a .m .

This time it is we want in order to ca lcu late the planetary positionsx
We find give ’

n as siderea l time '
on May 16th 3 h. 34 22 (see the

siderea l time-table at the end of this book).
This is the S . T. at noon. The time was a .m. so that we have

to make a smal l correction in the S . T. It '

was the day before 4 less,
as the table Shows, which makes a d ifference of 4 ”

9 ; or % X 40
for 4 hrs. SO from the S . T. on May 16th must be subtracted If

'

the birth had taken place at 4 p .m . , 40 shou ld have been added .

In order to find the correct S . T. at birth there must be subtracted
from the S . T. Greenwich at noon the time of b irth before noon, in this
case 12 10 m. Had the time of birth been p.m. we
shou ld need to add. If the figure given in S . T. is too l ittle to subtract
from , we might for convenience sake add 24 hrs. to it.

We get S . T. May l 6th Gr . noon 3 h. 34 m . 22 5 .

add 24 h.

27 h. 34 m . 22 S .

Time of birth before noon 4 h. 10 m.

subtract
23 h. 24 m . 22 s.

Correction of the S . T. for 4 h. 10 m . 40 S .

whi m“
23 h. 23 m . 42 s.

S . T. at birth 23 h. 24 m .

the 75th degree east up to the coast.
90th 75th degree.

l 05th
” 120th



95

We may also proceed as fol lows,
S . T. May 15th Gr. at noon 3 h.

Time elapsed since May 15th noon 19 h.

’ 23 h
Correct ionofthe S .T 1

. ) for 19h. 50 m . add

(be
’

cause of 4 in 24 hrs.)
S . T. at birth

The reason of the correction of the S . T. is because , in the first
case , the S . T. which advances 4 minutes in 24 hrs, is less than at
noon (Gr. May l 6th) and in the second case is more than at noon

(Gr. May 15th).
When we look in the Table of Houses under S idereal Time , we

find the nearest S iderea l Time to that which we want, is 23 h. 23 m .

15 s. and next to it unde °
r the heading ascendant : Q6 19 In the

same line we find a lso, under 10 (cusp of the loth house or M. C.)
DC unde ‘

r 1 1 (cusp of the 1 1 th house ’

), Y under 12, I I
under 2 , under 3, £1

1 '

) Notice that this correction Of the S. T. even for 18 hrs. tota ls only 3 and can
never be more than If no very precise ca lcu lation is re u ired itmay be neg lected ,

the difference in the rising Sign being very slight indeed . us the ca lcu la tion be
comessimplified . The di fference may be reduced to 1 2m. at most, when in drawing
up the houses the S. T. is a lways taken for the day of birth and not for the preced
ing , as is a lso done in ca lcu lating the planets.

Examp les for ca lcu la ting the Ascendant, neglecting the two corrections for
S.T. which as we have seen, may be neg lectedwhen no extreme accu racy is required .

1 . B irth May zu d 1913. Ber lin . 7 p .m . Local Time.

S . T. May 2u d 2 hrs. 39 m. 10 s.

Time after noon 7 hrs.

S ’
. T. at birth 9 hrs. 39 m. 10 S . SO Asc. is 8° 20 m.

2. Birth May 20th 1913. The Hague. a.m. Greenwich Tirne.

S. T . May 20th 3 hrs. 50 m. 8 s.

24 hrs.

27 hrs. 50 m. 8 s.

Time before noon 4 hrs. 50 m.

Corr. for loca l time east of
S ’

. T. at birth 23 hrs. 20 m. 8 s. SO A80 . is 19° 10
Birth May l 6th 1913. Bristol West of London. see map of England),

p .m. Gr. T.

The correction for local time is 4 minu tes for each degree of longitude,
so here X 4 m. 10 minu tes.

S. T . May l 6th 3 hrs. 34m . 22 s.

Time after noon 7 hrs. 15m .

10 hrs. 49m . 22 s.

Corr. for loca l time 10m .

o be subtracted
g )

. T. 10 hrs. 39 m . 22 8. So Asc. is 19° in



96

Now we have found the cusps of the houses 1 , 2 , 3, 10, 1 1 , 12
and the Opposite signs w ith the same degrees are the cusps of the
Opposite houses 1

, 7 , 8 , 9, 4 , 5 , 6 .

Opposite the asce ’

ndant Q?) 19 45 we get p °
cus 7 1

’

) 2; 19 45
Opposite ° °

cusp 2 52 5 comes cusp 8 5
° °

3 S) 24 9 24
,

° °
10 21C 20 4 “17 20

‘ ’ ° °
1 1 Y 27 5 i 1 27

°
2 °
1 11 12 6 12

We now proceed to see if there are any Signs missing and going
over the Signs in their order, we find that between cusps 1 1 and 12 ,

in the l 1 th house, the Sign 8 is missing 2
. ) We put it in the 1 1th house .

Opposite 8 the Sign "1 is missing, so we insert it in the 5th house
(the Opposite house) these are the SO-cal led intercepted signs.

The outer arrow indicates the direction in which the signs rise above
the horizon. The planets move through the signs and the houses in the
Opposite direction (see fig. p .

The diagram of the houses is ready now and we may proceed to
ca lcu late the positions of the planets in it.
For May l 6th we find given the longitude (Long ) the latitude (Lat.)

and the decl ination (Decl . for Q and D). The decl . and the lat. of the
planets are given at the top of the

° ’ ' p
age of Raphael

’

s Ephemeris.

We fi ’

nd for long. 6) 24 59 45 in 8 . This is the Sun s position at

G reenwich at noon. The birth took place at am Gr. T. i .e. 4 hrs
30 m . ear lier.

Now, when calcu lating the planets we must proceed from Gr . time.
So in order to find the exact place Of G) at birth we must subtract

the distance the Sun moves in 4 hrs. 30 m .

We proceed thus .

° ' "

Position of the G) May 16 noon 24 59 45
” ’ '

6) May 15 24 1 57 subtract

’ ’ ' ' ’ ’

6) s motion in 1 hr . therefore 57 48 : 24 3468 24 2 24
’ ’ ' ' ’ '

So in 4 hrs. 30 m . X 2 24 9 108 10 48

1) 0 Ppositie v comes A ,

n 8 n m
I I ‘

n R
6 n X

n Q a

"V n

2) See horoscope p. 27.

3) With the help of a tab le Of lo arithms this calcu lation may be done much
quicker (at the end Of the book is a t gle of logarithms) As follows,

’

the log. for O ° ’ '
5 cou rse in 24 hrs. (57 48 or 58

the log for 4 hrs. 30 m. 7270

Addition gives






98

° ’

The long. of 8 7 16 8 on May l 6th.

'

The long °
. of 8 5 29 8 on May 15th.

° ’

Motion 8 in 24 hrs. 1 47

° ' 1 ' ’

i.e. per hr . 1 47 24 z 31 4 and in hrs. 20

Or with the aid of logarithms:
° '

log. 1 47
log. 4 hrs. 30 m . 7270

lo .

g
The position Of 8 is therefore

’ ’ ° ’

7 16 20 6 56 8 .

At the top of the page of Raphael ’s Ephemeris, on the right, we find
the pl ’

ace of the D Node or Dragon s head , the place where ecl iptic
and celestial equator intersect each other.

We find for it ° ' ‘ ’

on May 15th 0 36 V
0 1 ,

on May 17th 0 3O V zdi fference p . d . _ 3

SO place 9 _ ° ’ ‘ ’

, 0 33 V
and pl ‘

ace 8 (drag
’ °

on s tai ’

l ) : 0 33
’

In order to find the GB or Pars Of Fortune we add the position of
the Dto that of the ascendant and subtract from the tota l the position of
the Sun, or :

63 D asc. (9.

’

Long. D is 2 ° 13 A z 6 signs 2°
’

13
Long asc. is 19°

' '

45 93 3 si °
gns 19 45

Together
’

Long G) is 24 ° 49 8 subtract
'

7 sig '

ns 27° 9 27° 9 m .

We have seen on page 94 that we have to make a correction for
S . T. for the time before or after, noon Greenwich. With greater
differences in longitude East or West of Greenwich, we have to make
a second correction. For 24 hours i.e. for a complete rotation

’

of the earth upon its axis, there is a di fference Of 4 S . T. so for
every 90° in longitude the di fference is This difference is added to
Western Longitude and subtracted from the S . T. with Eastern Longitude.
The reason why is evident.
Seeing that the exact time of birth is very seldom known and these

two corrections together total some minutes at most, we do not commit
a crime when we simply neglect both corrections if the di fference in
longitude and in time is not very great.

For the British Isles we can always neglect the correction of the
S . T. for the difference in longitude.

In order to get the correct ascendant and therefore a correct map
1) See Raphae l

’

s ephemeris for May 1913.



99

of the houses, the time of birth must be calcu lated exact to a minute .
Various methods have been given to this end, but we cannot deal with
them al l here . This subject is more fu l ly gone into la ter and one method
given. The correction of the time Of birth requ ires very much experience
and patience and it is useless labour for a student of astrology.

For him it is the safest method to compare the data of the principa l
events in his l ife and the position of the progressive planets with
regard to the cusps of the houses, especially of the M. C. (radix
This will be dea lt with later, when we take up the subject of the
progressive aspects.

We sha l l now insert the planets in the houses. The ascendant is
the East, the M. C. the Sou th. The signs rise on the eastern horizon
and go through the South. The first degree of a Sign rises above the
horizon followed by the remaining degrees and the other Signs in their
order. (See hor. fig. pag.

The Sign 8 is intercepted and in order to indicate that the G) is
posited in this intercepted Sign and not in one of the neighbouring, we

'

put C) 24° 49 a cross the 1 1 th house ; 8 a lso is in this sign. So we
’ '

e ° ’

put 8 6
° 56 und r the G) oss th, a lso acr e house . The D is 2 13

in A . On the cusp of the 5th house is A The first degrees Of
A have , therefore , already passed the cusp of the 5th house and are

'

in the 4th house . So D 2 ° 13 we put in the 4th house near the Cusp .

° ’

28 too is in A (0
°

and so we put 8 0 33 before and near
’

the D 1
. ? 23° 42 93 comes in the first house (ascendant) right under the

cusp which be '

ars 19°
’

45 Q ; It]: 7
° 33 x 13. comes in the 8th house , for

’

the cusp is in 5° x ; b 5 ° 50 I I comes in the l 1th house ; for I I 12°
’

i ‘ ’ ’
s on the cusp . In l ike m ° ’ ‘

5 ’
anner do$26 V D °

, 6 6 16 V and °
52, 0 33

c e i ‘
om n V in the 10th house or M

‘
. C. for V 27 is on the cusp . Place

69 27°
’

9 m across the intercepted Sign "1 to denote that it isnot in A .

1 ) Radix is the name Of the birth-horoscope, abbreviated r. or rad .



100

Birth-Horoscope for Bu itenzorg (Du tch East Indies)
May 23. 1913 1 1 p .m.

We shal l now calcu late a horoscope for a place with Sou thern
Latitude e.g. Bu itenzorg on Java . The birth took place May 23rd 19 13,
1 1 p .m.

Buitenzorg is situated on 107° East. Long. and abou t 7 ° South. Lat.
107° East of Greenwich gives a d i ff '

erence in time of 107 X 4 more
than 7 hrs. So it is at Bu itenzorg more than 7 hrs. earlier and according
to Gr . T. the birth took place at 4 p .m . When calcu lating the longitudes
of the planets we thus have to add their motion during 4 hrs. to the
position at Greenwich at noon.

We can calcu late the houses for Sou thern Latitude with Tables of
Houses for Northern Latitude by adding 12 hrs. to the S . T. a t the
moment of birth and then taking for the Signs obtained according to
this S . T ., the Opposite signs on the cusps of the houses.






°
Positi ‘ ’

on d on M ‘ ’
ay 23rd is 1 1 43 V

'

Position 6 on M °
ay 24th is 12 28 W”

’

d s motion in 24 hrs. 45
'

i .e. in 4 hrs. 7
°

so position 6 at birt ’ ‘
h ’
is 1 1 50 V .

In l ike manner we find

For 69 we find :
l °
ong. D 9 sig '

ns 13 18

°
19 sig ’

ns 28 18
2 sig ° ’

ns 1 54

° ’

so 69 26 24 in 1117.

Influence of the Planets in the Ascendant

The ascendant represents the body. The appearance especially, but
i t also denotes the character and intellect which are conformable to
the degree of the sign tha t is rising .

When, however, there is a planet in the ascendant or near the
cusp of the ascendant , it greatly modifies the ou tward appearance and
the persona l qua l ities. This is especial ly the case when the planet
receives aspects from the Sun, Moon, Mercury or the ru ler of the
h 2
oroscope . ) Then we get a more or less strong blending of the qual ities
of the rising Sign and of the rising planet.

The D in the ascendant makes the face and the forehead broad , the
nose smal l and at the tip usual ly snubbed . The body becomes small by this
Moon-influence and gets more rounded forms. Hands and feet small. It makes
the native very receptive, sensitive and continual ly longing after change. The
intellect is clear and this combined with the chequered life theMoon produ ces,
gives the opportunity to progress qu ickly in evolu tion. Curiosity is usually

1) W e must ever bear in mind that these influences and those that fol low ,

should not simply be read in jud ing a horoscope, but compared judiciously to the
other important influences in the oroscope .

2) See p. 133.



103

enta iled in this desire after new experiences. Rising in z and in m, theMoon
has a less good influence, it causes here egoism, pride and jealous In
the fiery Signs it makes passiona te and impulsive. Of grea t importance here,
as well as with the other planets in the ascendant, are the aspects the Moon
recerves.

The Q in the ascendant makes the body stronger and gives it an

abundance of vital ity. The complexion is fair, the hair fair or golden, eyes
blue, and chin strongly developed. The nature is optimistic the native wil l
have a strong sense of self-esteem and bearshimselfwith digmty and au thority.

He will be honest and fa ithful and have a strong wil l. The la tter quality is
even present when the Sun receives bad aspects, bu t in that case the feeling
of au thority changes into arrogance, masterfulness and selfishness.

In the airy and fiery signs .the Sun-influence in the ascendant is most
favourable, it gives courtesy, intu ition, uprightness. In 8 it gives too much
self-reliance, and in m inflexibility.

8 in the ascendant gives a slim body, black hair and usually grey eyes,
sharp in expression. The nose is long, narrow and pointed , u sually bent. Lips
thin. The temperament is nervous and sensitive. The face is narrow and long
This position Of 8 is very favou rable for the intellect, but the way in which
the intellect will express itself, depends on the aspects 8 receives.

In you th especially the influence of 8 here is felt ; it it is well aspected ,

it causes precociousness. The Mercury types are usua lly eloquent, scientific,
susceptible, and restless and they are often fond of travelling. If Mercury is

,

badly aspected here, it makes the native talkative, irritable (in Z) affected ,

or superficial (in 3c). 8 in the ascendant in the airy signshas an especra lly good
influence. A badly aspected 8 in the ascendant usu ally produces troublesome,
unreliable types who think much of themselves, criticise others, try to make
them appear ridiculous or slander them. A bad aspect of 131 here may produce

“
an inventor bu t the inventions are genera lly worthless. This holds good
for 8 in M . C. also.

9 in the ascendant gives a handsome body, a fu ll face, ful l lips, a straight
short nose ; usua lly brown, but sometimes blue eyes with a kind expression.

Poli teness and kindness are constant characteristics. The face is oval , rather
too broad sometimes. 9 frequently gives d imples in cheeks and chin.

The Venustype is sympathetic in appearance and manners, pure and
.

honest . i s fond of apprecia tion. If here is badly aspected , especially by d
.

the resu lt is passion and sensuality. n 9 makes the native changeable in
friendship, in m jealous and exaggera ted.

d in the ascendant gives fair or red hair ; the moustache is fairer than
hair und beard . The eyes have a qu ick, penetra ting glance, the nose is shapely,
and somewha t bent in the upper par t. L ips thin, chin narrow. Eye

-brows
beau tifu lly curved . The rising Sign may of course alter this. There is usually
a scar or a mark on the face.

Mars gives self-reliance, courage and strength bu t when the aspects are

not very good , some quali ty of the animal nature 1S sure to come to the fore
making them d isagreeable characters.

In fiery signs Mars gives grea t pushfu lness, love of argument, the native



104

will usually be combative but a the same time generous. In 2; Mars gives
tact and deliberation next to pushfulness, in m passion (the type is dark here).
In a iry signs, especially in 11 , 6 gives a sharp intellect.

Q). in the ascendant gives a stou t, well set body, a square chin, a fu ll
face with full eyes, which may be protruding somewhat. The complexion is
fresh, the hair fa ir or brown. The glance is frank and Open (jo,vial type), the
expression of the eyes kind, but sharp and fiery in excitement. Baldness Often
occurs under its influence. £21 in asc., if well aspected, gives good heal th and
su ccess in life. It is a very fortunate influence which awakens deeply religious
and moral feelings, bu t a strong a ffliction of Jupiter changes these feelings into
hypocrisy and untrustworthiness.

In airy signs 91 makes the na tive humane, well-mannered, and awakens
the intu ition. In In and 78 less good , in II)? especially, where it makes him
often au tocra tic and dishonest.

b in the ascendant gives a tall , wiry stature, with an oval, thin head.

Hair dark, eyes brown or blue. The Satum - type is Slow in hismovementsand
serious in his mien. He seldom looks straight in your face, his glance is
usual ly fixed to the ground. He is persevering, patient, meditative, contem
plative, and economical, often religious. The influence is very badwhen Saturn
is ill aspected for it makes him unhappy, miserable, stubborn , mean, faint
hearted . In a iry signs especially b is at its best, working favourably on the
mind. Saturn is an enemy of superficial ity. By 1ts l1m1tat1ng, restrarnmg influence
it has the effect of purifying the character. Often in this position it cau ses

long periods of depression and melancholy. An impediment Of speech Often
occurs under this influence (when a fflicted).

H in the ascendant gives a strange expression to the face. The eyes are

Of a pecu liar steel-grey or blu ish shade, impossible to interpret correctly. The
iris seems smaller than usual , so tha t the white of the eye is Often visible
round the iris. The nose is large and sharply bent in the upper half. The natives
are strange in their mien, hasty, acu te and often difficu lt to understand. It
gives a strong tendency towards a ll occu lt sciences and a sense of indepen
dence of very high degree. Eccentric inclinations are usually present.

In a iry signs especially the strong tendency towards occu ltism is shown.

m is worst in earthy signs.

t? in the ascendant. In this position. Neptune gives large, dreamy eyes.

With the highly developed type this planet gives an artistic taste, genius ; a
seer, a mind that seeks to solve the mysteries of chaos. W ith the lower type
it? Often produces trance-mediums, weak , changeable characters tha t are Often
addicted to liquor or drugs, e.g. morphine, or have unna tural habits. By the
strong position of Neptune, they come under its influence, bu t cannot normally
answer its high vibra tions that in fact do not qu ite belong to our three
dimensional kingdom. W e see therefore by the pecul iar influence of this
planet, tha t genius and moral sickliness are qualities tha t really touch each
other and come under the same influence. It depends upon the moral and
intellectu al standpoint of the na tive as to the direction in which this influence
will be expressed .






106

of Merc especially, works favourabl on the intellect, whereas a good
aspect of ranus will bring a tendency or occu ltism. A bad aspect of Jupiter
in this house will lead to h ocrisy and the na tive will tend to fana ticism
if the bad aspect comes from ranns or Mars .

G) in 10. All aspects received by the Sun in this house are ofthe grea test
moment for the wordly position, honour and calling Of the native. The Sun
well aspected in M. C. is good for the (father) mother, gives honour, success

in life and in all kinds of ma tters. It gives occupa tions and professions of

grea t responsibility. It is striking tha t nearly a ll rul ing monarchs have either
the Sun or Jupiter in M. C. or in the ascendant. When afflicted this position
makes the native proud and arrogant.

G) in 11 gives faithful and powerful l friends and brings fu lfilment ofhopes
and wishes we might cherish. Badly aspected this position means loss of
friends, disagreements through them ; the asp. planet indicates from which side
we are to dread this.

(D in 12 is unfavourable, viz. it compels the native to keep in the back
ground , he feels limited in many direc tions. This position Often gives eccentric
tendencies. The Sun afflicted , the native has much to su ffer from secret
enemies. He usually lives apart from his rela tions and the cross he has to
bear during his earthly life is usu al ly heavy. Good aspects, especially of the
benefics, change of course greatly for the better. This position always gives
a great inclination towards occu lt study. This is apt to degenerate into
psychism and mediumism, espec ially in the watery signs.

The Moon in the Different House 1
s. )

The Moon in 2 and well aspected , especially by a benefic, gives much
su ccess in financial affa irs. The money is u sually earned in businesses that
have to do with flu ids. But affl iction by Sa turn is a sure sign of poverty.

D in 3 is favourable for Short journeys and gives a strong liking for them.

The na tive is on good terms with brothers and sisters and neighbours. It gives
a receptive intellect and an inclination for study. This inclination is further
indica ted by the aspects the Moon receives ; e.g. Mercury adds shrewdness and
alertness, Jupiter a tendency towards social pursu its, Venus to art, Uranus
to the occu lt and eccentric, etc.

D in 4 indica tes many changes during the la tter half of life and su ccess

in agricu lture and as a contractor. When afflicted by Uranus sudden changes
of abode are to be expected. General ly an ill aspected Moon produces much
unhappiness in home life and an unfortunate Old age. The Opposite is true
with good aspects, espec ially of the benefics.

D in 5 and well aspected means many children, love for all kinds Of
pleasure and entertainment ; but with a bad aspect, especially ofSaturn,much

1 ) See the first footnote p. 102.



107

il lness for the children and difficu lties through all matters relating to the
sth house. This position denotes changeability in friendship.

D in 6 gives, when afflicted in mu table signs, a liability to chronic pul
’

monary affections ; in fixed signs throat , bladder or heart affections, ln cardinal
signs stomach-complaint and head ache. A ffliction by Mercury gives nervous
disorder, by Jupiter diseases of the liver and blood etc favourably aspected
it gives a good circu lation.

D in 7 denotes an early marriage if Saturn sends no aspect. If the D
receives very bad aspects here, it denotes grea t inharmony or an early death
of husband (wife) or partner. The Moon always indica tes changeability in
a ttachment, with man as well as with woman, bu t in a female horoscope
there is something romantic in the connection and as a ru le there isno relying
on the constant faithfu lness Of the husband. The same holds good for the
partner. For social life the Moon signifies popu larity, bu t fluctuating ofshort
duration. Much depends on the aspects.

D in 8 well aspected denotes inheritances or legacies from mother orwife
or their family. When the Moon is afflicted here, this position indica tes a more
or less violent or unexpected death ; by Mars and Uranus it means a sudden
dea th ; by Saturn a slow, painfu l dea th, while an affliction by Neptune is
said to denote death by drowning, or in a deep trance, by Opium, morphine.

This position is favou rable for occu lt study.

D in 9 gi ves love of travelling and repeated changes during life, changes
that are usua lly advantageous. It is very conducive to the intellec t and gives
love of studying philosophic or religious subjects. Well aspected by Mercury
gives a qu ick intellect, by Jupiter an inclina tion towards religion and
philosophy, by Uranus talent for occul tism, with Neptune love of
mysticism, psychics and sometirnes there is genius also. If the native is on a

low plane of evolu tion, the effect of the planets will be quite different of
course. A ffliction by p lanets will produce d ifficu lties through affai rs denoted
by the afflicting planet. (See under 11: aspects).

D in 10 in mu table signs gives many changes in calling and if the Moon
shou ld also be il l aspected it makes the native a jack of all trades who is
master Of none. Well aspec ted this position gives a su ccessfu l life and notwith
standing the many changes a good name. W ith bad aspects, especially of
Mars and Uranus, there is gr ea t liabil ity of losing honour and good name.

The Moon strongly placed in this house is good for the mother and assures

help from friends. An affliction by Saturn givesmany difficu lties to be overcome
in every enterprise ; nothing goes smoothly.

From the planets placed in this house and from the aspects they receive
combined with the aspects Mercury receives, the calling or profession

the na tive has a talent for, may be found. (see p.

D in 11 gives man acquaintances. agreeable intercourse with them
and help from them. The friendship is usually of a superficial nature. W ith
strong affliction this osition gives d ifficul ties and loss through friends.

The aspecting p anet denotes the nature of the friends e.g. Uranus in I I

indicates friends with a propensity to occultism, theosophists, astrologers,



108

spiritualists etc. Mars denotes mi litary fri ends, surgeons, dentists, merchants in
meta ls and arms, etc. (see p.

D in 12 and affl icted is a very bad position. It produces many secret
enemies and if further indica tions are found in the horoscope, e.g. a strong
affliction by Satu rn or Mars it may lead to imprisonment. It brings limitation
and Obstru ction in al l manner of ways and the best chance Of su ccess is
given by a field of activity in hospital s, prisons and su chlike institu tions
which keep us apart from life in the world . It is an ideal position for a hermit,
a monk, a nun , a sick-nurse. The native usually is inconstant in character.

Mercury in the different Houses

8 in 2 is good for success and gain through scientific studies, through
peirmanship , delivering lectures, in various branches of instru ction, in jour
nal ism etc.

A good aspect to the Moon gives gain through the public ; toVenus gain
through the fine arts or an activity in which good taste and fashion play a

part ; to Jupiter gain through a sphere of work where intui tion, law or moral
principle are the basis, to Sa turn through tact and perseverance, to Uranus
gain through eccentric enterprise or uncommon field of action, also through
inventions ; to Mars through mechanics or adroitness. The signs whence the
aspects come will give us fu rther elucida tions, as will a lso the house from
which the aspect comes. This applies of course, for a ll houses in which
Mercu ry is placed .

8 in 3 promises many short journeys and much instruction and experience
through them , for this position of Mercury makes the spirit very active and
alert. The planet is here in the house of Gemini (harmonious) and so

it can express better here than elsewhere. It gives grea t love of study and
Often eloquence. A good aspect of Uranus here gives grea t intui tion and love
of metaphysics ; Saturn gives the power Of concentration and profound
thinking.

If Mercu ry is strongly afflicted in this house by Sa turn und Neptune, there
is danger of mental disorder, especial l when Mercu ry receives no help from
Jupiter or Venus. Strong a ffliction by aturn in this house causes depression
and despondency.

8 in 4 promises many changes Of abode and troubles in home-life. Well
aspected it gives an inclina tion to, and su ccess in all matters concerned with
real properties and agricu lture,while at the same t1me it ind icates that the native
ti ll the end of his life will retain his intellectual powers unimpaired. If
Mercury is badly aspected here it promises and Old age ful l of di fficu lties
and care.

8 in 5 and affl icted may produce much care and anxi ety concerning the
children, troubles in love-affairs, and loss through speculation and gambling.

VI ell aspected , luck in specula tions. The intellect u sual ly allows itself to be
carried away too mu ch by the emotions. This position gives love for intel
lec tual work.

1) See the first footnote p. 102.






1 10

8 in 12 . The 12th house is an occul t house and so thisposition ofMercury
inclines to and gives a talent for occu ltism and mysticism ; usually the oppora
tunity or the gift of expressing oneself is lacking here and the nat1ve 1s seldom
understood and appreciated . Want of self-reliance and of constancy are the
characteristics of the 12th house.

The Remaining Planets and the Nodes of Moon and Planets
in the Houses.

Combining the nature of the planets and those of the houses, we
are able to define , withou t much di fficu lty, the influence of the other
planets on the native in the houses. (See themeaning of the houses p. 90)
Benefics, or G) or 3) well aspected in the
2nd house will be favourable and condu cive to financial affa irs ,

in 3 to travelling and to the intellect ;
in 4 to domestic l ife and old age ,

in 5 to chi ldren, pleasures and specu lations ;
in 6 to hea lth and harmony with inferiors ;
in 7 to union and socia l l ife ;
in 8 to legacies and obta ining money through marriage ;
in 9 to long journeys and philosophic and religious studies ;
in 10 to honour , success and cal ling ;
in 1 1 to friendship and fu lfilment of cherished wishes ;
in 12 l ittle care and few enemies.

Malefics in these houses or benefics ill aspected denote the opposite .

’

The dragon s head in M. C. or in conjunction to Sun or Moon seems
in many cases to exercise a very favourable influence in the house it
occupi ’

es, whereas the dragon s ta il in M. C. or in d with Sun or Moon
in other cases gives the only explanation to be found sometimes for a
l ife fu l l of adversity and misfortune. In this d irection much has still to
be expla ined and every student of astrology is recommended to record
his experiences concerning this.

The ancient astrologers and the Hindus even now c ’

onsider theMoon s
°

nodes to be of great importance . The 52, and 28 move
'

19 20 a year
retrograde through the Zodiac and complete the entire revolution
through the 12 signs in 18 years 225 days. The planets a lso have their
nodes, these however, have completely lost their signi ficance in
modern astrology . Seeing that the motion of these nodes is very slow

°

(ziz 1 on an average per century) one might regard their influence in
the horoscope (if that influence exists) as a constant factor and every
one may decide for himself, how far that influence is present in his

’

own l ife , counting the drag ’

on s head a good, and the dragon s ta il
a bad influence. I give the place of these nodes as they are in our

century. They are not mentioned in the ephemeris.



1 1 1

a (South-node)
° '

9 43
° '

13 17

The same holds good for the Pars of Fortune (GB). Opinions differ,
‘

but those who deny its influence and ca l l the lucky point
’

a chimera
of P tolomy, are probably wrong. Ptolomy was not l ikely to su ffer from
chimeras. Only a smal l portion of his knowledge has come down to us

and we are consequently compelled to seek and discover afresh.

“
A . E. Thierenss ays the fol lowing concerning the GB : From my own

experience I have found that the GB in the birth-horoscope as well as
in the progressive one and in any other, stands for much and possesses
an extremely practical significance in the horoscope , it is the practica l
resu lt, the concrete synthesis of the horoscope as a whol e.

As regards 9, it seems to us that this symbol signifies one short
glance at the qual ities of the native’s sou l .

The Sun in the Twelve S igns.

As we have already seen the Q in the horoscope denotes the
Individual ity, the Ego, aga ln and again incarnating to gain on the
physical plane experiences which it cou ld not obta in on the other
planes ; and as we believe that the aim of human evolution cannot be
one- sidedness, it follows that the Ego during its many incarnations does
not always express through the same sign, but through different signs,

according as it needs development in one direction or another. An
Ego that needs development of its power of will and facu lty of perse
verance will be born in a fixed sign ; another that has to enfold the
emotional side of nature , in a watery sign, and according as one side
or another of the emotiona l side has to developed, it will choose one

of the watery signs 5 , m or DC.

This, however, need not a lways occur in this way. One might as
well su ppose that a highly developed individual has to do a certa in
Work during his reincarnation and that he to that end, needs the strongest
developed side of his character? In this -case the Ego will put its ful l
force at his disposal in order to do his work well .

In the former case it wou ld seem that the position of the G) in a

certa in sign indicates the already developed side of the character, bu t



1 12

the reason for this is simply that this sign compels him as it were to
show the concurring qual ities. In a sense it is the aspects that actually
indicate his real force.
The position of the Q in Q e .g. need not represent a strong

individual ity at a ll , and that of the G) in a or a weak individual ity,

on the contrary the reverse may be the case, though it expresses
itself in rather a powerfu l way through S2, It is my conviction that the
real power of the Ego is in no way revealed by the horoscope . Tha t
which is d ivine in man is surrounded by an impenetrable veil and only
by following man in his deal ings and doings can we somewhat surmise
to what height he has risen. That is why some knowledge of his
deal ings and doings his strivings is decidedly necessary if one
wou ld give , according to the horoscope, a more or less detai led image
of the character and everything related to it.
When one considers the horoscopes ofwell-known leaders and great

men in var ious spheres of action, one will find that many have Scorpio
strongly placed , either as representative of the Persona lity (D or ascen
dant) or of the Ind ividua l ity
One shou ld not derive from this that many extraordenary highly

evolved Eg ’

o s were born under the sign m , but tenacity and the longing
a fter glory and for being worshipped is present here.
When great ability in one direction or other and great eloquence

“
are joined to thi sc ”

s, a orpio will easily fascinate a certa in public
c ircle , and bring them at his feet. The public likes worshipping man"

Is it mere chance that in the horoscopes of suchlike stron and
self “

-confident ”
natures Sa turn the Wa tcher on the Threshold ta es a

prominent place ? Sa turn it is who will bring to light in course of time,
whether self- love or Universa l love of mankind was the motive . The
l atter can be expected of a rea l ly highly evolved Ego.

The a ctua l va lue of the Ego is in the horoscope not indi cated by
the position of the G) . The l imitations more or less to which
the Ego is subject in his expression dur ing this incarnation, is at most
indicated.

The Sun symbol ises the highest and therefore represents in the
horoscope honour and glory ; generally speaking his standing amidst
his fellows. Ill aspected and receiving no help from good aspects of
£21. or 9, will be an indication that the native will not be able to a ttain
to glory and honour and a high position, but along a very difficult path.

It goes withou t saying that the tendencies of character and the
characteristics given below, are somewhat modified by the aspects
which the Sun receives in the sign. How the tendency will ex ress
itself in life, depends further on the persona lity (the position of on

the vehicle, the physica l body (the ascendant) and on the M. C. (his
view on things) .






1 14

persistent striving is requ ired, as well in the bu i lding line , agricu l ture
(earthy sign), as in mining enterprises. They like to hear their own me
lodions voice in singing or reciting.

They do not criticize, they do not worry unnecessarily, they are

easy-going. They seldom remain bachelors and usual ly make happy
patres familias. They are reliable in materia l a ffairs and in. their ca lm ,

sta id way they are untiring workers. This position usually gives great
vital ity but with affliction by d or 3 there is danger of apoplexy. They
are fond of the fine arts (52 the ru ler), especia lly music and singing.

(Throat and neck X).

The Sun in Gemini.

(9 in 11 (May 22nd—June l t) Prof: Bolland , A lbrecht
Durer, Dante, Richard Strauss, Oliver Lodge.

The calm composure of the preced ing sign here gives place to the
movability, changeability that is pecu l iar to a ll dual istic natures. Gemini
has two strings to his bow and wi ll play them both at a time. He
wants to have more than one sphere of work and wou ld l ike to be in
two places at a time if this were possible. He l ikes best to undertake
different things simu l taneously.

His nature is courteous and confident one moment, waver ing the
next, for the rest kind and good-tempered. His intellect is qu ick , he is
apprehensive , and has great love for arts and sciences, but l ikes to
wander on the surface of them , though he takes the a ir of an expert.
He l ikes travelling and movement in the open air. He ishandy, nimble
fingered and prefers a vocation in which he can display his dexteri ty ;
pen

-drawing, reporter of news, teaching profession, or public orator.
Many good speakers are found among them , artists, publishers ofperio
dicals, journal ists. (I I and respiration lungs).
Their work is more probing, trying rather than finishing, at least

with the lower type . The higher type is usual ly highly scienti fic and
has an al l-round knowledge.

The Sun in C ancer.

6 in 25 (June l t—July 22nd) William Stead, Gariba ldi,
Joseph Chamberlain.

This position gives great receptivity and tenacity, the latter often
expresses itself in a retentive memory, but also inmiserl iness and greed .

This position often gives a certa in indolence but once that is overcome ,
this sign gives great force. The keynote of the character is



1 15

and kindness, especial ly in you th attended with a degree of timidity
and very l ittle self-reliance.

The will is not strong. Domestic l ife attracts, sociableness is every
thing to him, the one condition of happiness as it were. Nothing puts
him so much about as unsympathetic surroundings ; for the rest he is
easy in intercourse. The health is not over-strong.

He easily assimilates everything (93 and the stomach) he is
modest but cannot bear being overlooked, not being taken notice of.
He loves to ponder on the past and dwell on family-traditions.

The Sun in Leo.

G) in Q (July 23rd—Aug. 22nd) Napoleon Bonaparte ,

Colonel Olcott, Percy Byssche Shel ley, Reynolds. (The last
named had as ascendant m, and the j) in 95 , hence his love
of detail accompanied by his ingen1ous sense of colour and
line) . H. P. B lavatsky. Bernard Shaw.

Fond of power and au thori ty, faithfu l , noble , sympathetic, unable
to do a mean act. His manner is characterised by a certa in pride and
distingu ishedness and he is easily carried away by his indignation.

Unless his superiors place him in a position of authority it is with
great d ifficu lty he can accommodate himself to an inferior one.

He has a strong sense of his responsibil ity in the surroundings in
which he moves and has influence (the heart and
He is generous and ready to help , sometimes a ffable , also often

assuming and impudent.

The Sun in Virgo.

in "P (Aug 23rd
—Sept. 22nd). QueenWilhelmina , Goethe,

'

W em Bilderdij l;

Scientific, inventive, intellectual , methodical , over-ni ce, talented, often
selfish, a lways critical . They are great lovers of detai l and seek detai l

,

everywhere , so that they often lose sight of the greater perspective .
This is probably the reason why so many people of doubting mind are
found under this sign.

The key-note of the character is a longing a fter purity and this
longing expresses itself on the material plane in a great nicety as regards
food etc. (digestion—bowels up).
As he often su ffers from lack of self-confidence , he feels more at

ease in a position as an inferior than as a head. Virgo governs the
house of service (6) and so this position of the Sun gives, when afflicted,
troubles with inferiors.



The Sun in Libra.

G in a : (Sep . 23rd—Oct. 23rd). Pau l Kruger, Carmen Sylva ,
Annie Besant.

Here the desire for equ il ibrium -_r1 loins, kidneys) and harmony,
mora l and menta l expresses itself strongly e.g. in great love ofarts.

It gives idealism but usual ly littl e will-power and perseverance .
He is a great lover of order and ru le . This position gives success

and sometimes inclination to seclusion and to travelling. He is usual ly
loved on account of his equanimity, especially by the other sex.

He is just and very intu itive and incl ined to give his powers to the
elevation of the people, preferring to work in combination with
others and does not usually lack helpers to assist him in his efforts.

A Libra-type must have order and rule in his life and in his sur

roundings.

The Sun in S corpio.

in m (Oct. 24th—Nov. 22nd). Roosevel t, Martin Lu ther,
Ex g Manuel, King Victor Emanuel, Erasmus.

Expresses, l ike the Opposite sign Taurus, a strong sense of self
esteem , authority and pride . The character is sometimes d isagreeable ,
aggressive, tyranic, mistrustfu l , j ealous.

There are two very different types, the high and the low 111 -type .

The former has overcome his low passions and displays l ittle of the
above-mentioned bad qual ities, he has a great capacity for work
and desires to give it to his ideal . In none of the other signs do the
two extremes l ie so far from each other as in this.

m gives stubbornness, constancy, energy, passion and an extraordi
narily strong feel ing of sympathy and antipathy. It gives a talent for
chemistry, occult a lchemy, surgery. The interest is strongly drawn towards
the problems concerning life and death, and the process of generation,

of which fit is the ru ler.

The Sun in S agittarius.

G) in ,2‘ (Nov. 23rd—Dec. 2150. Mark Twa in, Conscience.

Denotes a very independent and enthusiastic character with religious
philosophic tendencies. The nature is generous and honest but proud
and often irritable ; they qu ickly fly into a temper, but their rage isnot






151 characters). He is usual ly popu lar, sympathetic and at the same time
tactfu l ; pru dent, patient and persevering. He is fond of the society of
friends and can qu ickly make himself at home in any circle . He some
times fa ils to keep his promises. Fits of high ideal ism (m) and periods
of depression (b) follow each other alternately. The ankles are the
sensitive parts of the body.

The Sun in Pisces.

0 in at: (Feb . l gth—March 21st). George Washington,

Chopin, Melanchton, Michel Angelo.

Usual ly misunderst “
ood characters who through al l kinds of circum

stances are unable to show their real nature ; they seem compelled to
remain in t he background. Happiness is often not theirs, they su ffer
adversity and find obstru ction everywhere , though they want to do
good and are by nature kind , loving and ready to help .

They often lack self-reliance and power of will and are therefore
to a great extent dependent on their environment, by which they allow
themselves to be influenced.

The key~note of their character is self-sacrifice . A humble , serving
ca l l ing is most fit for them .

This position is not favourable to vital ity and for marriage .

Their nature is honest , kind , religious, but rather changeable as

regards this latter.

We see here the mysterious influence of Neptune . The feet are the
sensitive places of the body.

The Moon in the Twelve S igns 1
. )

The same qual ities as the Sun in the different signs, but here it is
more the passing tendencies of the personality . We must bear in mind
that here it is more the emotions and the intellect, and l ess the will
that is influenced.

i ‘ ’
n V . Sharp intellect, impu lsive, n0 1sy, 1ndependent much self-confidence,

inclined to act 1mpuls1vely, 1ndependent ofothers opinions, combative. Loves
to be active, and a leader of a group.

j) in 8 persevering and stubborn, conservative and calm . Good pos1t1on for
obtaining possessions. Favourable for agricu ltural enterprises and 0 am through

1) See the first foo note p. 102.



1 19

them. Talent for music, especial ly singing. Kind and compliant, bu t more or

less sensuous.

D in I I . Love of study and for an intellectua l sphere of work m, ovable,
changeable, irresolu te ; fond of travelling, walking, visiting. Handy and capable,

a lso a good speaker. Gemini is a double s and in many ways the
inclination to do two things at a time appears. igns)"icted unreliable, dishonest.

D in Imaginative power, economical , psychic and very sensitive.

A ttached to home and to mother. Kind and pleasant in intercourse, but chan
geable in friendship. Liability to imi tate others. He loves to live near thewa ter
and is fond of voyages.

D in Likes to choose a field of activity of much responsibility. Perse
y ering, fai ful and honest, generous, kind , especially when he is shown how
much he is appreciated. Intu itive bu t proud . It gives love for the fair sex

and of luxury in general.

D in "V. Good for the intellect, discrimina tion, and for business. Better
fitted to be a servant than a master. The right type for traveller, teacher, clerk,
c arrier. lrresolu te and critical , he a ttaches too much importance to details.

D in Usually strongly attracted to the other sex, courteousand agreeable
in intercourse. Has many friends and is strongly influenced by them. An
inclination to cooperate with others. Love of art.

D in m . Self-confident, constant , mysterious, sensua l , arrogant, energetic,
stubborn, revengefu l, rude, sometimes inclined to liquor. A ttracted to the other
sex, but the married life is often unhappy. It is a bad position for themother.
Much depends here on the aspects.

D in Restless and nervous, Great love for all kinds of sport, especially
those associated wi th horses. Is attracted to rel igion, philosophy and espec ia lly
to occu ltism and mysticism. Intuitive, upright and kind, but irritable and
changeable.

D in z . Fond of glory and honour. Longing to do great things, tooccup
a high position. By his perseverance and frugal ity he can attain much, but he
has to overcome great difficu lties. It is a bad position for the parents and
often causes difficu lties through them. Other qualities are selfishness, economy,
insensibility, chastity.

D in z . Inclination to all occu lt sciences, especially astrology ; interest in
everything ou t of the common. He has breadth of view and is humane, inde
pendent and idealistic. Intui tive. A student of Nature.

D in 30 Receptive and sensitive, calm, reserved , inclined to dejec tion. Love
of the romantic and all tha t affects the feeling. This position oftheMoon gives
mediums and sensitive people. Pisces governs the 12th house and the limita
tions of this house express themselves in this position. The native is kept in
the background .

1) The doub le or movable signs are I I “
. V. 36



120

Me 1
rcury in the Different S igns. )

‘ '

8 in V . Will love to argue, to exaggerate. Impu lsive, changeable in opinion
bu t qu ick and alert of thought.

8 in 8 Diplomatic and tactfu l in speech. The intellec t is practical but
often dogmatic and insistant, sometimes stubborn.

8 in 11 . Love of study and travelling, clear intellect, sharp judgment,
Spiritual. Is seldom silent.

8 in g . Very receptive, adaptive and changeable of Opinion ; it gives a

clear memory and tact.

8 in Q . Breath of view and intu ition. It givesself-reliance, organising talent.
isin up. Critical intellect, detailing everything, hard to convince, though

changeable ; careful , scientific.

8 in age. Fond of harmony ; a calm intellect, withou t passion or haste. It
refines the intellect cu ltured .

8 in m. The intellect is sharp and critical ,mistrustfu l , much love for occu l t
and mystic studies, and if the aspects are not unfavourable, gives the
power Of concentration.

8 in ,2‘ is not strongly posited ; it makes the na tive independent and some
times troublesome, impu lsive, touchy ; gives philosophica l tendencies.

8 in z . Tact, and a tendency to profound stu dy, critical, mistru stful ,
economical.

8 in Persevering, intuitive, gives power Of concentration an abstract
thinker, good for judging human characters.

8 in QC Very receptive to impressions, sensitive, adaptive to circumstances,
but nega tive and superficial.

Of the planets it is su fficient to treat only of Mercury in the diffe
rent signs, seeing that it is not hard to find the modifi ed influence of
the other planets in the signs by combining the meaning of sign and planet .
By doing it himself, the student learns sooner to judge a horoscope
and to make a ll possible combinations, than i f he merely reads every
thing mechani ca l ly.

In order to reduce “the pigeon-hole work” in practical astrology,
the system of divisions so much rejected by some professional astro

logers
—

, we omit to treat on the influence Of Q Q
, 6 , t , b, 151 and t? in

the signs. These astrologers forget that they themselves have learned
astrology according to the system of divisions and that it isofgreat use

’

for the pupil . It won t do withou t practica l classification.

The reader will excuse us for being still an adherent to the con

1) See the first footnote p. 102.






1 22

D makes changeable, watery, secretive, gives cold expansion of the part
of the body the sign represents, in which the D is placed.

8 makes movable, gives nervous pains, reflex-movements, sensitiveness
of the particular part Of the body.

2 gives humid tumours, bu t generally acts favourably on the parts Of the
body represented by the sign.

6 gives pa ins, restlessness, acu te inflammation, injuries by burning or

cu tting, scars, acts very inharmoniously on the part of the body represented
by the sign.

I) also : but its disturbances are of a very lasting na ture, chronic puru
lent inflammations, ossifica tion, sclerose tuberculosis, lumbago, poor circu lation,

cold , shrivelling of the particular part.
21 acts in the opposite direc tion -

, it is expansive, giving heat, it causes san

guinity, over-nu trition, fattening, and works very mildly on the particu lar part .

a givesnervou s pains, occurring suddenly and subsiding qu ickly, sensitive
ness of the part and a propensity to inflammation ; spasms.

tp causes shrivelling Of the part through lack of function. Wrinkling Of
the skin. Numbed pains.

‘Y’
Mars in (the head) acute headaches, restlessness and sleeplessness,

a ffliction Of ‘ ’
t? in V causes du l l pa ins. b in V colds, dea fness, toothache,

rheumatic headache . b in 9 slow action of the heart , I) or d in an:
,

kidney disease , H in I I sharp pains in arms and shou lders, asthma , 8
‘ ’

in V nervous headaches etc.

General Action of the Planets in the Houses.

In judging one shou ld always take into account that the general
a ction of the different planets in the houses is as follows :

The Sun brings honour, glory , dignities, favours
with a ffliction the opposite.
The Moon brings changes, publicity, favourable
unfavourable according to the aspects.

Mercury brings adaptibility, movability, memory ;
disturbances with a ffl iction.

Venus brings happiness, harmony ;
misfortune and disharmony with a ffliction.

Mars brings impu lse , power of work ;
intemperance , and quarrels with affliction.

J up iter brings abundance , increase , religion ;
adversities, and insincerity with a ffliction.

Sa turn brings frugal ity, concentration, depth ;



123

limitation, hindrance, misfortune and adversities with affliction.

Uranus brings original ity ;
eccentricity , impulse .
Neptune brings genius, aesthetics ;
chaos—and sometimes perversity with the undeveloped ind ividual .

These are general influences. Under the aspects these influences are
spoken of at greater length.

A few examples. Mars in M. C. gives a Mars-influence in all a ffa irs
of the loth house , so the calling gets a Mars-character, the native feels
attracted to callings that have to do with metals, sharp instruments,
with surgery, chemistry, militarism, and if Mars is wellaspected , he
will succeed in them . If Mars is il l aspected, he will experience all
manner of adversity , he will have to change his call ing repeatedly ;
his honour and repu tation will be in danger.

Neptune in M. C. gives something chaotic, artistic, according to the
native’s development. He will have an out-oi—the-way career and will feel
a ttracted to mysticism .

Saturn in the 7th house and i ll aspected will give delay and mis
fortune in everything connected with the life of union as disappoint
ment in married l ife , with partners ; trouble and opposition in public l ife etc .
The houses indicate the nature of the troub le and Opposition e.g.

a bad aspect from house 1 1 denotes Opposition from friends or acquain
tances. The nature of the so-called friends is indicated by the a ffl icting
p lanets ; e.g. affliction of d from 1 1 wou ld denote opposition, slander
etc. from such so-called friends as come strongly under Mars, e.g. mili
t ‘
ary men, instrument-makers, dentists and a lso those who have d strongly
in their horoscopes, in ascendant or in M. C .

If Saturn is in 3, Opposition may be expected from more scientific
a cquaintances.

I) in 4 denotes a sol itary Old age and a disagreeable domestic life .

I) in 6, difficu lties with servants, inferiors ; afflicted i n 10, very unfa
vourable to honour and good name . (9, Q or m in 10 on the other
hand, exactly the reverse . It brings great popu larity. 52in 7 is very tavon
rable to marriage , union and socia l l ife . b in 1 1 few, or Older friends etc .
Remember a malific well aspected is better than a benefic il l aspected ,

so always note the aspects"
The position of 21 in J_1 the positive sign Of Venus, will add to the

good qua l ities that Qt gives, such as uprightness, piety, imagination, the
Venus-tendencies such as love Of art , friendship . 21 in X the positive
sign of i; will make the spirit more serious, less hopefu l , but it is
favourable to the Z tendencies, such as the wish to become famous in
a public position. In Jupiter is better posited , the reason will be
c lear by now . 6 in a iry signs gives too great a passion and agitation
in al l doings indicated by the ru ler of the sign. In fiery signs d shows
best because they agree to its nature ; it is good in earthy signs (espec



124

'
ially in To and 8) because the cau tion and tact of these signs is
accompanie d by the force and progressiveness of Mars.

The nature of the aspects 8 receives, will somewhat indi cate the
ca l ling.

Thus we can judge a ll planets in the d i fferent houses.

It is one of the best exercises by which to develop our faculty of
combining. A certain degree of intuition is a great help here .
Looking upon it superficial ly one would say that man wou ld expe

rience the magnetic and electric influences of the planets strongest
when they reach him under a right angle , as at the equator. This is
not the case , the force with which they reach man, depends wholly
on the position the planets occupied at the place ofbirth, at the moment
of birth.

Action of the Aspects.

The planet that makes the strongest aspect with the Sun has espec
ial ly to be taken into account in judging a horoscope , so has the
ru ler of the ascendant.

The former often strongly influences the whole l ife. It is a generally
accepted ru l e that the Sun, placed stronger by sign or house than the
aspecting planet, is more favourable than when the latter is stronger
than the Sun. Just as with the aspects between a malehoand a benefic,
if with an aspect a benefic is posited the stronger, the aspect is more
favourable than when the mal efic is thus posited.

Th ’
e conj unction (o ) of the Sun gives to every planet more power

to express itself and must therefore be regarded very favourable if it
occurs between planets of agreeable natu re and in signs of a nature
agreeable t ’

o the planets. Even the o of Sun and Saturn may be favou
rable under certain circumstances e.g. in Capricorn this combination gives
power of will and calm perseverance , added to tact ; though Saturn
always weakens the vital ity and denotes a tendency to melancholy . Like
wise th ’

e o of the Sun and Mars. Though it makes the character too
impulsive , too hasty and too fiery, it gives also strength to the
character and to the body.

The A aspect brings prosperi ty and success in l ife without undue
exertion. It is a certa in harmony we gained in former l ives and which
now manifests as a favourable influence in our l ife.

The D aspect has the Opposite significance . It is the l imitations in
our l ife which we bring with us as wrong habits etc. resu lting from
undeveloped or wrongly developed sides of our character.

The 8 aspect causes unexpected disappointments and separations,
through which we are sometimes compelled to direct our l ife otherwise .
If the bad aspects come from signs which one or both planets have






G) and d . U. Impu lsive, troublesome, irritable, assuming. Gives vitality,
but at the same time a propensity to inflammatory, feverish diseases with
rapid progress. This aspect and the next (6 ) indica te d iscord with superiors
and with the fa ther and Often an early death of the latter. The diseases are

sharp and acu te. The passions are stronger than the will.
‘

Q) d 5 denotes a strong, energetic will , bu t inclined to bed ra ged along
by passion. Danger of exaggera tion and too impu lsive. When the is placed
strongest, this position is more favou rable. This shou ld be noticed with all
aspects, bu t especiably with those of d .

C) and 21. F. Ve favourable for everything ; for health as well as su ccess
in business, love, re igi on, law-affairs and travelling. It refines the character,
gives hope and faith, makes philantrOpic, honest, generous, and ingenious.

Q and 91 . U. Gives difficul ties in social affairs, through religion and law,

makes superstitious, mistru stfu l , proud , arrogant, and is unfavourable to the
health.

9 d 521. Honest , generous and sympathetic, brings many opportunities in
life to progress morally and social ly, help and success through superiors.

When Qt is the stronger this position is less good , it brings pride and arro

gance along with the good qualities.

Co) and b. F. Perseverance, tact and self-control, it makes methodical , con
servative, active. Success through important posts, help and sympathy ofelderly
people. This position gives mu ch solid force to the character, organising talent.
Fit for occupying posts of a great responsibility.

(9 and E. U. Bad for the health. It brings limita tion in every direction
disappointments. It makes selfish, jealous, faint-hearted , miserly, spitefu l , mali
cious. It denotes disharmony with the father, superiors and in general with old
people. When the Sun is strongest, this position is improved .

’
6) o b. Gives organising talent ; cold-blooded , unsympa thetic, selfish,

patient, persevering bu t fa int-hearted , timid , bad for the health. When the

Q is strongest, it is mu ch better.

59
and Ill . F. Original ity, sometimes genius, intu ition, Spirit of enterprise.

Fon of travelling and of antiqu ities and strongly a ttracted to public life. Very
independent. Inclines to occult stu dy or pursu its.

G) and m . U. Unexpected and unforeseen obstacles and Opposition
separations, estrangements, losses, sudden difficu lties and enmity.
G) d m . Revolu tionary tendencies very original and strong character

,

tha t experiences much Opposition ; strong will and very independent. Intu itive.

Q and qr. F. Gives width of vision, good taste, love of fine arts and
mysticism, aesthetic taste. It refines the emotions and feelings.

G) and 115. U. Danger of slander, swindle, deceit and great disappointments,
unpleasant dreams, trances.

G) d ty. A strange character psychic, often clair-voyant, chaotic psycho,

metri c Cla ir-audiant, often strongly mystical tendencies. A misunderstood
,

character.



127

D and 8. F. Very good for the intellect, qu ick perception, and right obser
vation, good for all kinds of study. A lertness, qu ick-wittedness, adaptability.

and 8. U. G ives also ra ther good facu lties, bu t chan, geable and super
fici irresolu te, want of concentra tion, too independent and meets with
Opposition.

D ’
o 8. Much adaptability, changeable, qu ick and good intellect witty, ,

intui tive.

D and F. Prosperity and success throughwomen, favou rable tomarriage
and family life bu t gives short-lived popu larity. Pleasant, sympathetic perso
nality, artistic, good-natured , an amourous na ture.

and 9. U. Careless, sentimental , vain, indolent showy, sensu, ous. Troubles
in omestic life, sometimes divorce.

D ’
o Happy life, love of ease, fond of pleasant surroundings, is esteemed

and love prosperous, somewha t effeminate and of an amourous na ture.

D and d . F. Courageous, practical and enterprising, generous, energetic,
adventurous, positive in speaking and acting, capable but changeable.

D and 6 . U. Unfortunate aspect. Impu lsive and hasty, irritable, want of
feeling, rude and unsympa thetic, quarrelsome, adventurous, boastful . This
position brings inflammatory diseases, fever and wounds.

D ’
o 6 . Too impu lsive, rash in action ; displays too much self-confidence ;

passionate etc.

D and Qt. F. Very fortunate aspect. Brings prosperity and success in every
direct ion. Honest and religious, upright and sympathetic, intu itive and progres
sive, popu lar, phi losophical.
D and Qt . U. Arrogant and careless, troubles and disappointments

through misplaced faith. Disagreements through religion and travelling. Often
gives liver complaint and plethora .

D ’
0 Qt . Very favou rable to success and prosperity ; it brings powerfu l

friends ; generous, charitable, hopefu l ; is esteemed and loved ;— a good
aspect for body and spirit. Pleasant personality.

D and b . F. Tact , perseverance, patience, seriousness ; economical,
organising ta lent and fitness to occupy confidential posts. Calm, imposingmane

ner. Reserved character.

D and I) . U. Very unfavourable aspect, especially with woman. Brings
many difficu lties and adversities. Depression, anxiety, care, weak heal th, indo
lence. It makes the native mistrustfu l, apa thetic, insensible, despondent, shy,

discontented , insincere experiencing limitation everywhere.

D d 15. than the p :

receding aspect. Much depends on: the other
aspects. Bu t here is also a tendency tomelancholy,mistrust, discontent, seclusion
and insensibility.

D and m . F. Very favourable. An unusual life, full Of change. Original
and occu lt inclinations. Love Of travelling and grea t mental activity.



D and m . U. Unfavourable. Sudden difficu lties and changes, eccentricity,
strange conduct, irritable, very changeable ; inclined to a wandering life, roman~

tic, self-willed.

d m . Very eccentric, nervous and changeable, great intu ition, qu ick
intel ect, inventiveness and inclina tion to become a reformer, a pioneer in
something new. He hates all convention, is progressive. Inclination to a

wandering life.

D and iii . F. A ttractive personality, sensitive, dreamy, es very
artistic . Feels attracted to the sea . The spirit is very impressionable and the
native possesses a rich imagination.

D and 8 . U. Peculiar adversities and disillusions; dreamy, psychic, pecu
l iar, often unreliable. Given to drug taking. Danger of slander—with man
a bad aspect for marriage.

D d ty. Dreamy, psychic, sensitive to impressions from higher worlds.
Visions, interpreting dreams. Very sensitive and changeable. Artistic, some
M es ingenious.

8 and 9. F. Agreeable, cheerfu l, loves music or the fine arts, eloquent,
courteous, innocent feels attracted to young people.

The trine aspect cannot be formed.

8 and 9. U. Only the A aspect can be formed. It is unfavourable for
stic development , though the talent is Often present.

8 d 9. Amiable, pleasant, sympathetic character. Favou rable for studying
music , fine arts, languages.

8 and d . F. Q uick and witty, sharp, positive ; sarcastic and alert, practical ,
enthusiastic, energetic . Good speaker. Gives manual adroitness, a good
aspect for draughtsmen, etchers, engravers.

8 and 5 . U. The same qualities, bu t with a disagreeable bent, exagge
rating, sarcastic , impatient. Usually has no patience to listen, till another has
finished speaking. Is not on good terms with brothers and sisters.

8 d 6 . Q u ick and alert , a tendency to socialistic materialism, enter
prising, irritable, sharp, fond of argument and exaggeration.

8 and Qt. F. Favourable to thinking and to travelling, good judgment,
philosophical spirit, righteous, reliable, upright , philanthropic, hopefu l. Good
position for harmonious thinking , especially in religion, philosophy and literature.

8 and Qt . U. Judgment not reliable, prejudiced in religion and law.Danger
of lawsu its etc. NO Opinion Of his own, vacillating.

8 d Qt . Very good aspect. Intu itive and hopeful , tolerant, content just, and
reliable, humane, devou t, ingenious, moral and successfu l. A philosophical,
religious spirit.






9 d d . Passionate, amourous, vain, sentimental , inconstant. The same as

the preceding aspect , with both much depends on whether $2 or d is the
stronger planet as to house and sign.

9 and Qt. F. Very good aspect. lm roves the entire horoscope by the
purifying influence this aspec t has on t e emotions and feelings. S ignifies
success in life. Kind, generous, religious, upright and virtuous. Usua llymuch loved .

2 and Qt. U. Va in and ostenta tiou s, arrogant, generou s withou t need and
Often chasing doubtfu l pleasures. His ostenta tion Often causes him to live
above his means.

’
9 0 Qt. A very good aspect ; it makes idealistic, pure, happy, upright,

humane. It brings grea t harmony and contentment .

9 and b. F. Chaste and demure, calm, constant in love, upright, carefu l
and fai thfu l. Help and support from the fa ther and from old people. Good for
finance and business in general.

9 and I) . U. Brings unhappiness in love and in married life. This aspec t
demoral ises, brings grief and trouble through and with women. It makes
pusil lanimous, unchaste, jealous, sometimes perverse, weak. Is worst withman.

2 d b. Restricts and bi ’

nds the character, spoils Venus good influence
and makes gloomy, melancholic and Often givesperverse inclinations ; sympa thy
for old people. Worst with man. W ith these aspects mu ch depends on the
strength of the two planets.

Q and 15 . F. G ives love for the occu lt sciences and a tal ent for music
and singing ; many friends among occu ltists. The as ects of Q with m and d
often lead to an early and precipitate marriage. riginal and inventive.

9. and m . U. Usually causes difficul ties with the other sex. Gives sometimes

strange inclinations and wonderful ly liberal conceptions regarding love and
ty. Makes jealous and gives an a ttraction to al l that is strange and

2 d m . Gives Often artistic taste, especially drama tic ; strengthens the
emotions and the imagination. Is unfortunate for marriage, u sual ly leads to
divorce. Pecul iar tendencies. Sensu al. If 9 is the stronger this aspect is much
more favourable.

Q and fat
’

. F. and o . Gives universal love Of mankind and devotion. Very
favourable and refining influence on highly developed na tures. With the lower
developed man it strengthens the sensuous emotions.

Q and ty. U. Singular sympa thies Often abnormalities in feelin, gs and
emotions ; often love of art.

6 and Qt. F. Energetic, courageous, enthusiastic, and earnest. This aspect
is not very important.

6 and Qt. U. The only enemy to Qt is 5 , so 6 spoils somewhat the good



131

Qt-influence. It makes sceptical , rude, atheistic, prodigal , morose. The body
often suffers in consequence of excessive function of the part in which this
aspect occurs.

6 d Qt. Courageous, enthusiastic, supercilious etc like the preced ing aspect.
d and b. F. Gives courage joined with tact , self-reliance —

; help of supe
riors. For the rest not important.

6 and b. U. Selfish, cruel and treacherous, mal icious, violent, revengefu l .
“

According as d or b are the stronger, the bad qual ities of the one show
stronger than those of the other. (see d .)

d d b in which aspect the qualities Of both planets occur simu ltaneously.

Very bad when they form unfavourable aspects to G) , D or the ru ler of the
ascendant. It makes depraved and bold , extravagant and miserly. Both aspects
with [5 denote d isharmony with the father and often mean a su dden death.

(5 and H. F. Enterprising and original , intu itive and inventive. Love Of
antiquities. Travelling. In succeedent and in cadent houses this aspect is felt
bu t little.

6 and Itl . U. The same with this. It makes irritable, rude and prignacious,
restless and eccentric , rebellious. Often sudden adversities.

d ’
o m . The same qu al ities as in both the above but in a less disagreeable

shape. Much latent force, which, used wrongly, may become very dangerous
in its expression.

6 and iii . F. Gives a peculiar attraction to the character, strong emotions.

d and iii . U. Changeable temper, irritable, discontented and rebellious.

d d qt , Inclines to egoism , brings sometimes chaotic visions, strong emo
tions. With the lower type this aspect gives ap titude for swindl ing.

Qt and b . F. Love of profound study ; itmakes philosophic, serious, upright,
constant and reliable. A very favourable aspect for success in life and for a

wordly position ; harmony with the father.

Qt and 15. U. Weak will , irresolu te, intolerant or indifferent in religion and
often unhappy and mistrustfu l many adversities and changes of fortune,
disharmony with the father.

Q ’
t o 5. Very favourable aspect. Makes thou htfu l p il, h osophic, serious,

carefu l, honest, thrifty and reliable. A lso as under g
Qt and H. F. Pecu liar charm of personality. Favourable aspect for intu ition.

Broad and progressive in the religious and political spheres.

Qt and m . U. May come into unpleasant associa tion with the court of
justice ; it indicates little success as regards study and activities denoted
by Uranus.



Qt d H Very good influence for intu ition and inspiration and for occult
and religious study. It gives artistic talent, especially dramatic.

Qt and tit . F. Kind and generous. Broad conceptions and feelings regarding
love of mankind ; genius. Only very few, however, can answer the high Nep
tune-influence.

'

Qt d ty. The preceding, stronger however and with an added sensitiveness
towards art and deep religious feelings, especially in a mystical or magical
direc tion. Sometimes genius in this sphere . It is the best aspect one can ima
gine for a mystic.

Qt an ttt . U. Gives the same tendencies, bu t brings disappointment, strange
experiences, loss of and estrangement from friends.

i) and H. F. Intu itive, altru istic, occul t, upright and broad of conception,

strong faculty of concentration.

I; and Iii . U. Adversities through want of opportuni ties or impotence to
use them. Fits of ill temper, eccentric and singular.

’
b o 131 . Inventive, intelligent, strong power of concentration, firmly resol
‘

ved , pushful , reserved.

I; and qr. F. Gives power of concentra tion and a certain shrewdness ;
tenacity and coolness.
b and ty. U. Selfish and cold, revengefu l and suspicious ; strange

troubles through secret enmity ; harmfu l to good name and position.

b d tit . Is in between favourable and unfavourable, Often an elevation or

degradation of the mental na ture.

m and 19. Too little is known Of the reciprocal action of these two planets,
to be able to make definite sta tements abou t it. A good aspect is sure to be
a favourable aspect for studying occult and out of the way, unconventional
ma tters.

Genera l notice.

It shou ld ever be borne in mind in j udging the aspects, tha t the action
is more favourable when the stronger of the aspecting p lanets is a benefic,
or when the p lanet denoting the higher qua lities, is the stronger . When
it is the other way about, the action is more unfavourable.






If the ru ler is badly aspected in the various houses, expect diffi
culties in the matters denoted by the house.
A strong influence on l ife have :
1 . Any planet

°
s in M. C. and Asc. or within 12 above cusp 1 (as

in the 12th house).
2 . The planet that in the horoscope has the most powerful aspects.

3. Always the G , D , and 8.

4 . The planet ru ling the sign in which the G) and D are at birth.

Planets in S trong or in Weak Positions.

S ign of strength : good aspects, especially to benefics, planets
in own sign, in own house —

, in an angu lar house, on a cusp,

exalted, in harmonious sign.

S ign of weakness : bad aspects, especial ly to malefics and no help
from benefics, planets in their fa ll or detriment, in a cadent house ,
D 1) or By weak is a lso meant the receiving of bad or no aspects,
and strong is taken in the sense of receiving good aspects.

S trongly posited does not always mean harmonious ; nor does
weakly posited mean unharmonious ; when namely the planet is strongly
posited but unharmonious aspected, the expression is even more unhar
monious than it wou ld be in a weak position.

D strong, Receptive , ingenious, thoughtfu l , domestic, changeable , of
reat adaptability .

D weak Weak character, superficia l, and whimsical , chi ld ish, chan
cable, conceited and pedantic.

6) strong Honourable , loya l and of good rep
, ute .

(9 weak, Despotic, supercil ious, haughty , despicable .

8 strong Intellectual, receptive , sharp , a lert , qu ick , witty , scientific, ,

good memory.

8 weak Often a good adaptability , sometimes artistic but careless, ,

l ittle power of concentration, forgetfu l , inconstant.
52 strong, Chaste , sympathetic and elegant , artistic , having good taste,

contented, loving.

9 weak Indolent and fond of ea
, se , thoughtless, pleasure-seeking,

disorderly , lewd , dissolute .
6 strong Active , courageous, combative , energetic, strong, , adven

urous passionate and pushfu l , impu lsive .
,

6 weak Irritable , impatient, impu lsive , and argumentative , sensuous.
,

Qt strong, Generous, jovial , philantrOpic, honest and tru e .
Qt weak Arr ogant, prodigal , profligate , hypocritical , unjust.,

1) By D . or dead is meant “withou t velocity viz . at the moment when the
p lanet after having been progressing, becomes retrogressing , or the reverse.

2) See footnote p. 53.



135

b strong, Tactfu l , prudent, diplomatic, accurate economical , reserved, ,

serious, regu lar, sober, patient.
5 weak, Miserly, melanchol ic, unhappy, plodding, slow, suspicious,

sceptical , fa int-hearted, mean, cold, unfeeling.

In strong, Inventive , origina l , intu itive , talented, cla irvoyant, occu l t
tendency.

m weak, Strange and eccentric, showy, sil ly, pecul iar and sudden
movements, romantic.

1? strong, ldea l istic, artistic, psychic, mystical , ingenious.

1? weak, Sensitive and dreamy, vague.

Intellect, Memory and Character.

Though all planets influence the intellect, in judging it, Mercury and
the Moon have in the first place to be considered . For a good, barmo
nious expression Mercury and the Moon must be l inked by an aspect.
A bad aspect between the two planets gives adaptability as well as a
good aspect, but in this first case the adaptability is attended with
changeability and difficu lty in concentration.

The position of D and 8 close to many other planets, a lso denotes
great changeabil ity of tendency and in thought . It usual ly indicates
versatility .

In the ascendant Mercury gives a ta lent for speaking in public, in
M G. also, though to a less degree, but in both it depends on the
aspects. The nature of the aspecting planets will give the tendency Of
the intellect, but at the same time note the ascendant, the position of
Sun and Moon as regards house and sign, as by these the type of cha
racter and the nature Of the feelings is given, which may modify the
tendency otherwise denoted by Mercury . Moreover the zodiacal sign in
which 8 is posited, shou ld be taken into account e .g. the satum ine sign
3 will impart earnestness and frugality to the expression of Mercury .

In judging, the intuition shou ld assist our intellect. The signs "P or

I I rising is favourable to the intellect , especia ll if the ru ler of these
signs, Mercury, is well placed as regards house ég . in 1 , 10, 3,

‘
or sign (W

’
11

, , V , 93 , m , z ).
The worst signs for 8 are 36 and
It is favourable when 8 receives good aspects from the other planets.

Especially good aspects from the 3rd and the 9th house (houses of
the lower (I I ) and the higher intellect) and from the ascendant
are favourab le .
Mars with 8gives smartness, sharpness, energy , Uranus gives origi

nal ity, Sa turn deep thought and retentive memory, but, with affliction,

melancholy ; J up iter gives a sound judgment and love ofright and justice ;
Neptune love of mysticism , at times ingenu ity ; Venusmakes the spirit



agreeable , amiable, gives love ofpleasure , society, and a tendency for art.
The Moon gives in bad as well as in good aspect, a clear intellect

with a qu ick a daptability , in the first case it brings also changeabil
ity , and a tendency to speak untruthfu lly.

The Sun gives magnanimity to the character i f it aspects Mercury
well . TOO near to the Sun (this is called combust) is d isadvantageous
to a clear , wide many-sided expression of the intellect. It is good for 8
to be in the vicinity of the C) but not nearer than
Bad aspects with these planets give the same qual ities to the intel

lect, but with a bad side to them , as is seen under the description of
the aspects (see p . 125 —130) of 8. Uranus a lso has much 0 q u i 1 . r

intellect ‘
c a v ‘

, an" . o p 1 n u . a n-i a l l
°

m1 : ht ud_e th
‘

e r 1 0 n o ust ‘

l l " u o u u

or e nature of the feelings as evidenced in thought, take the sign
and the aspects of Moon and Ascendant. Good aspects of Saturn to
the Moon, Venus or Ascendant, gives strength to overcome the senses
and so to rise high mentally. Bad aspects of the planets, especial ly of
the malefics to these , denote the reverse.
The strongest planet in the horoscope , e .g. in M. C. or ascendant

shoul d be considered in judging the nature and the tenor of the intellect,
as it Often colours the whole l ife of the native.

Marriage, Friendship, Enmity etc.
For these we must study the house of friends (1 1 th), the house of

the open enemies 1) (7th) and of the secret 2
enemies ) (12th).

Benefics in these houses and Sun or Moon well aspected, is very
favourable ; malefics and a lso the benefics, or G , D or 8 in these
houses i l l aspected denote the reverse , e .g. a planet in the ascendant
receiving a bad aspect of 8 from 7, signi fies Opposition from open
enemies of the character Of Mercury , as au thors, publishers, public
speakers etc. A bad aspect of the G) indicates Opposition from influem
tia l men etc.

The kind of friends is denoted by planets in the 1 l th house, and
shou ld there be none , by the ru ler Of the sign on the cusp .

C) denotes friends of important position and friends that have to do
with government or occupy public posts.

1) Open enemies are those who in their own Opinion, speak the tru th ; we
might therefore consider them to be our true fr iends. If e.g. husband and wife are

not in harmony, they wil l tell each other the truth, frank ly according to their own
limited insight, which may help to polish the sharp edge of dissension, thus har"
mony may rise ou t Of strife. A las"an 0 en enemy seldom becomes a true fr iend ,
in choosing separation (opposition aspect one does not learn his lesson (the real
union of Opposi tes as two halves make a whole) and thus one aggr avates
his karma .

2) Secret or unseen enemies that do not a ttack us Openly, bu t in underhanded
ways, and behind our backs.






b and m in 7 and also the sign K on cusp 7 , (7 ru led by Sa turn),
causes delay in marriage and with a ffl iction, great disappointments in
matr imonia l affa irs.

A malefic in bad aspect to 9. gives low mora lity, and in an angu lar
house this affliction may give rise to pol itica l scanda l .
A ma lefic on the ascendant or on the place of the G) or D of

another horoscope, gives rise to d isharmony and strife.
A benefic, on the other hand, gives harmony.

A benefic in an angu lar house is a lways good for popularity, the
(D and D likewise , provided they are not badly aspected.

When the ler of the a t or the t in the ascendant
receives bad aspegts it denotes that the native himsel is the ca of

,

e rs armony indicated
For harmony and disharmony especially notice the ascendants of the

two horoscopes. If they are in good aspect, there will be harmony, if
not, disharmony . With the opposition, it is the reverse, ri the two peOp le
are of different sex , for then there is attraction (e .g. between Q and z ).
A malefic, coming by progression to the place of A 50 . Sun orMoon

in another horoscope, gives temporary repu lsion ; the same with oppo
sition and square aspect and a lso when Sun or Moon by. progression
come to the place of a malefic or a bad aspect to it ; but the progrese
sion to Qt or Q in another horoscope gives friendship .

’

He whose planet comes by progression to the place of another s
planet, or in aspect to it, will be the one to promote the attraction or

repu lsion.

Every planet that aspects the Sun or the Moon badly, might be
regarded as an enemy and from its position as to sign and house, we
might discover how it will enter into and affect our l ife .

For the enemies indicated by a ma lefic in 7, 12 or 4 , a ffl icting the
Sun or the Moon, and weakly posited , one should especially be on one

’

s

guard ; this position causes continuous persecution and trouble.
With sympathy and antipathy the ascendant shou ld be considered e.g .

i f ’

the father has a benefic (Qt or 9) in the ascendant of his child s
horoscope, he will be a support to his child in every way and help
him on, physical ly as well as Spiritua lly ; but i f the father has a malefic
e.g. b in the asce ’

ndant of his child s horoscope his influence will not be a
help to the child , however much he might wish it. There is, as it were,
an unsurmountable wa ll or partition between them . If, however, the
relative positions of the other planets are favourable, much of the evil
may be taken away.

The passing by progression Of a malefic through the ascendant of
another is a lso usually a time of misunderstanding and enmity,
stronger than the passing of the radical malefic by the progressive
planets Of the other.

An a ffliction through a malefic becomes stronger i f the mal efic is
nearer the Zenith than the a ffl icted planet e .g. I) C"D is a very bad



139

aspect , especial ly for business people ; but it becomes sti ll worsewhen
15 is exalted above the D.

Heal th and D isease.
We have seen how the different signs ru le the di fferent parts of

the body and that each planet itself, a lso has a specia l influence on

certa in parts of the body. The signs, therefore , in which the Sun (with
man) and the Moon (with woman) receive a fflictions, indicate that part
of the body that is l iable to su ffer. The Q W ithman, theD withwoman
is the indicator of strong or weak health. If these a ffl ictions occur in
the western ha lf of the horoscope (especia lly in they are more
serious than in the eastern half .
Saturn in bad aspect to the luminaries (Sun and Moon) greatly

weakens the health by preventing influx of prana or vita lity
Mars gives vital ity, but a lso gives a tendency to inflammatory and

feverish attacks.

J upiter in bad aspect to G) causes impure blood and superfluous and
irregu lar circu lation in the part indicated by the sign ; a lso l iver com
plaint and obesity.

Uranus i ll-aspecting the luminaries, has a less disturbing e ffect on

the health of the body than on the menta l functions (hysteria , spasms).
It produces fear, hypochondria and usually incurable a ffections.

Mercury’

safflictions are expressed asnervousness and fa int-heartedness,
speech

~impediments, such as stammering, l isping ; and also ai lments of
the part represented by the signs in which the a ffl iction takes place.
When the G) receives bad aspects from both b and d , the heal th is
better than with a ffl iction through I) only, but as a ru le the death is
sudden, either through an attack Of illness or through an accident. This
is especial ly the case with eastern positions ; western positions usually
gives il lness of long duration,

According to Ptolomy strong afflictions of both D and 2 denote an

early death of the mother, and both 6 and b a ffl i cted, an early death
of the father.

A ma leh in the ascendant i for the hea
e ascen ant strong y affli cted is a srgn 0 bad health, especial ly

if it is hyleg 1
. )

In judging the hea lth of woman we take the Moon instead of the
Sun, it shou ld be borne in mind that an inharmonious aspect be
tween D and 9 is very bad for the hea lth, seeing that it has a weakening
effect on the constitu tion. If an inharmonious aspect of d or b is added ,

this combined influence will make the hea lth very indifferent. With
woman Mars has a more disturbing influence upon the hea lth than
S atu rn, because its action is much more Opposed to that of the Moon

’

than Saturn s.

1) See p. 151 .



Accidents, also sudden death, are especial ly indicated by a ffl ictions
in the eastern half, principal ly in the angles or on the cusps. This
is especia lly denoted if both Q and D are afflicted by one or more
ma lefics. The nature of the wound etc is indicated by the nature of
the planet e .g.

6 gives wounds through sharp instruments, through-fire or acids,
explosions, Operations etc. ;

b through bru ising, su ffocation ; Saturn causes calcification, tubercu losis ;
15 through electricity , sun-stroke , machinery, su icide ;
t? produ ces trances, mort ification infection and may cause death

,

through these.
The signs give further indication viz . fiery signs : electricity , heat ;

a iry signs : gases ; wa tery signs : flu ids, water etc. ea rthy signs: all things
connected with minera ls, earth, mines etc .
If Qt or $2 helps by a good aspect , the prognostication is more

favourable.
The na ture of the disease can be determined by the sign, by the

house , by the planets, and a lso by the nature of the signs.

The sign on cusp 6 will denote the diseases the native is specially
subject to, v iz . ,
Fixed signs (8 , $2 11

, 1 z
, ) e i e

, d note d s ases of throat, nose, heart ,
the genitals, the bladder ; mu table signs (11 we, 3C) enteralgia and
a ffection of the lungs e .g. tubercu losis, dropsy, scrofu la , neurotic disease
muscu lar pa ins ; ca rdina l signs (V a

, , Z ) stomach compla int, menta l
disorders, l iver-a ffections, disease of the kidneys, biliousness, fevers,
apoplexy, congestion, cutaneous diseases and diseases of the bones (K).
Serious su ffering is indicated when one falls i ll or has an accident

at the m ’
oment when the Moon is in o D

. , 8 or P. to Mars or Saturn,

or on the place of one of these planets at birth. Mars giveshigh fevers,
Saturn weakness. 131 will give strange symptoms and complications in
such a case .

It is favourable when the Moon at that moment is in good aspect
to Jupiter or Venus, (unless these planets are strongly a fflicted), con
valescence is sure to follow however severe the illness may be .

,

It is dangerous to undergo an operation on a day when the D is
in the sign representing the ‘

part of the body that has to be Operated
upon. Cardan says that it is dangerous to Operate upon a patient, when

°
the Moon is within 17 of the Sun and in opposition to Mars.

(See a lso the Chapter on Astro logy and Med icine).

The Cal l ing.

ru ler, the planets in it , the position of 8 and its
shou ld be especial ly noted here . The Sun and

the Moon have of course also a great influence , and their aspects,
particu lar ly any planet in conjunction with, or aspecting, the Sun and






142

C allings under the Different Planets.

The Sun : Kings, monarchs, high-bom people , people holding a high
position, in general people who occupy a prominent position and
are the centre of a large circle ; also, jewellers and a ll the various
goldworkers.

Moon : Seamen, fishers, travellers, merchants in flu ids, sellers in pu
blic, nurses etc.

Mercury : Au thors, public speakers, l iterary men, drawing-teachers,
clerks, post-Officia ls, publ ishers, carriers, editors, booksellers, etc.

Venus : Artists, such as musicians, poets, painters, scu lptors ; all those
deal ing in ornaments, ladies~fineries, art , perfumes, millinery ; also con

fectioners, fema le servants etc.

Mars : Mil itary men, iron-mongers, instrument-makers, surgeons, den
tists, gymnasts, barbers, smiths, bu tchers, cooks etc.

J up iter : Judges, lawyers, clergymen, merchantswith deal ings abroad,
bankers, traders in wool len articles ; people occupying posts of con
fidence.

Sa turn : Dealers and agents in land, notar ies, accountants, mining
engineers, coal-merchants, plumbers, printers, funeral-undertakers, shoe
makers, watchmen, miners, potters, house painters, brick-manu facturers.

Uranus : Travellers, inventors, engineers, mechanicians, chemists,
especia lly electricians, aeronau ts, hypnotisers, psychologers, occu ltists,
phrenologists, astrologers, public speakers, a ll kinds of ideal istic people
and bra in-eccentric people.
Nep tune : Cal l ings in which the watery element plays a part ; further

artists, mystics, psychologers, all kinds of idea l ists and emotional ly
eccentri c people .

Travelling.

Many planets in 3 and 9 (especia l ly 8, D, d , In) give a tendency
to travelling. Further also when there are many planets in cardinal and
in mu table signs or in watery signs. Also when on cusp 3 or 9 there
is a mu table sign or 93 or 3C.

Satu rn in asc. or in the above-mentioned housesmay neutral ise these
influences and give instead a desire for a fixed abode .

The D in aspect to Uranus from one of the angles produces always
many and sudden changes.

Many planets in cadent houses (3, 6, 9, 12) also indicate a wande
ring life .

The same is the case when Mars, Uranus or Mercury are strongly
placed , and aspect the Sun or Moon.

The pla ce where to go is indicated by the position of the benefics
Qt and 9. If these are posited in the houses 3 and 5 —, near to the native
place ; in 2 and 6, to places further d istant ; in 1 and 7 in neigh



143

bouring countri es, in 8 and 12 to countri es far away and to the antipodes.

The direction is indicated by the house in which the benefics are ,

or by (D and D, provided they are well-aspected. House 1 denotes
the East, house 10 the South, house 4 North, , house 7 West while, the
intermediate houses denote the intermediate directions. If the benefics are
i l l aspected in those houses, another direction is indi cated. If neither Qt,
nor 2 are well aspected, take a planet that receives good aspects ot®
or D . If there is a benefic in the 4th house , or Sun or Moon are well
aspected in it, it is advisable to rema in in the native country . If despite
this indication the native makes long journeys, he will miss the best
opportunities to progress.

The native with a fa irly harmonious horoscope , will usual ly choose
unconsciously, intu itively, the correct direction in which his fortune lies.

Astrology helps one to do this consciously . If we note the direction
taken by world-travellers etc it is usua lly found that they, total ly
ignorant of their horoscope, have gone in the direction their horoscope
indicated.

According to Sepharial we might trace how l ife in a foreign country
will go on, if we add the longitude of the place to the M. C. of the birth
horoscope (if the place lies East) and with this new M. C . , according
to the table of houses for the place , we cast a new horoscope, in which we
insert the planets according to the degrees in the radix-horoscope .
(Subtract if the place lies West). As long as the native remains in this
place , he must trace the directions and the transits that work in the
new figure . He should go to that place where according to thismethod
the best influences of the birth-horoscope come in the new one to
their finest expression. If we remain in our own country , the choice of
the house , as regards local ity and direction, is of much importance .

A cardinal sign rising as ascendant denotes a high place e.g. the top
of a hill , or in any case above sea- level . A fixed sign indicates an

abode in the pla in. A mu table sign wou ld indicate a low lying place ,
or one between other houses i.e. not conspicuous.

If the c ‘
usp of 4 (the abode ’

) is V , the front of the house shou ld
face East ; if it is Q North ; a : West, and i f it is Z Sou th. For the
intermediate signs, the resp . directions.

By acting consciously we might bring ourself into harmonious
contact with the magnetic cond itions of the surround ings.

We need not make ourselves dependent on them , which might
happen if we exaggera ted the importance of the above-given informa tions
regard ing abode etc.



144

Judging the Horoscope.

B irth Horoscope for the Hague, May 16 - 1913. a .m.

When analysing the horoscope we shou ld set towork systematical ly.

W e begin to note down how many and which planets are placed in
card ina l, fixed and mu table signs (p .

Next , which planets are in fiery, ea rthy, a iry and wa tery signs (p .

Thirdly which planets are in exa lta tion by sign (p . 52, 85) and which
a re exalted by position houses (p . 105) or aspects (p .

Fourthly which are in their fa ll or in detriment (p .

Fifthly one shou ld note the declinations (Para llels) (p . of all
planets and ca lcu late the aspects (p . In an easy and simple manner
we might comprise everything in a table, l ike the one following below,

in which the data of the above horoscope are indicated.

One shou ld never read mechanical ly what any position of the planets,
of A 80 . or. M . C. etc. means. Consider attentively what the strong chief
influences in the horoscope are, and what the weaker, subservient
influences. The former give the key-note, which by the latter can be
only modified .






146

T ‘
aurus, in which the Sun and Mercury are placed . (G) i ’

n o, p . 1 13
‘

8 in d h
, p . T ese make the character more practical and constant

and add power of will and a feeling ofself-reliance . Thishelp is eater
as the Sun is favourably aspected to the ascendant and Neptune ( A ty,
p . 126 ; (D A Asc. , p . The Sun is very well aspected in the same
house , so great help of fri ends may be expected (p .

It is not to be considered that all is harmony in the house of fri ends
(XI, p . for 8 receives a strong D aspect from Uranus (8 CI at ,
p . from the 8th house . Uranus being in its own sign Aquar ius
is favourable ; but being retrograde it weakens the first advantage
somewhat (p .

So he will experience troubles from friends that study a branch of
occul tism (131 in VIII , p . 122) and there can be no doubt abou t which
branch it is, for the sign Cancer as ascendant denotes great sensitive
ness and mediumship (Asc. Q , p . whi le Neptune adds its great ten
dency to mysticism and mediumship . Friends that are spiritualists will
induce him to become developed as a medium and his troubles will
be endl ess.

He receives, however, very strong help , which will turn him away
from his first hobby that gives him no satisfaction. (I) A D , p . 127, b A

p . The latter aspect denotes love for occu lt sciences and the
former endows him with profound thinking and brings more stability
to his thoughts. We might rightly assume that he, as soon as his first
cur iosity is satisfied, wil l turn away from spiritism or spiritu al ism in
order to seek a long the occu lt, scientific way that which his inborn
longin drives him to.

m %p. 65) will act here in the sense that it lessens the tendency to
imitation that 6 gives, and makes the character more original , though
at the same time supp ‘

orting d in the strong tendency to impulsive
action (D 8 d , p . b (p . 63) on the other hand , bringsmore tact and
thoughtfulness (D A b , p . The strong position of d inv and inM G. in

’

8 and R D (6 ru ler of
‘
V) denotes strongly enough great impu lsiveness

and a strong feeling of independence, which will cause the native many
di fficul ties in his cal ling ( loth house , p . 86) and threatens hishonour and
good name with danger. But I) and 8 placed in the house Of friends
warrant the help of old people (I) , p . 63) and of acqua intances
amon youn er people (8, p . Moreover m from 8 is in sextile aspect

‘
to d p . 131 from which we conclude that he is helped in his di fficulties
by hiswife ’ ’

s or his partner s money (8th house is 2nd from 7 p.
131 is It but for the rest is not badly posited in the house 0 Scorpio.

in is in its own sign Aquarius, so that being retrograde here wil l mean :
postponement or delay Of expected help .

The D receives the a ffl iction from Mars (D 8 d , p . 127) in the 4th
house (p . 123) and as neither Qt, S2 nor 6) send it a good aspect ,
the good aspects coming from the mal efics only we may derive that
he will have domestic troubles and that his surroundings in general wil l



147

not be harmonious. It denotes a less agreeable Old age, l ighted however
by profound intellectua l work and study concerning themysteries of life
and evolution (b A 131 , p .

The only weak planet in this horoscope is Venus, which has its
detr ime ‘

nt inArie ’
s (9 in V, p . and is moreover withou t motion

Moreover Venus receives bad aspects from Neptune (2 D ip, p . 130) and
from the ascendant. The weak semi-sextile to G) will be of l ittle ava i l
here '

. Ve ’
nus (in V) on the cusp of the 1 1th house is scarcely indicative

of good terms with femal e acqua intances. Venus in Arieshowever helps
‘

to fortify his ideal ism ’

(2 in V , p .

The ascendant (p . 102) is also rather il l aspected ; it receives a sex
tile from the Sun, but a D aspect from Venus, an 8 from Jupiter, and a
A from Saturn, and though M.C. sends a A aspect, it is evident that his
hea lth will suffer, the more so because the sign Cancer produces an

over-sensitive body (p . There is reason to expect that the hyper
sensitiveness of the Cancer-body will manifest in great susceptibility to
cold and moisture , seeing that the aspect of Jupiter comes from the
satum ine sign Z moreover Satu rn throws a Z aspect and Neptune is in
the ascendant (b p .

The position of the Moon in Libra denotes many changes of abode,
which may be accepted with more certainty because there are so many
planets in cardinal signs. Indeed, the Moon by itself as ru ler of the
ascendant denotes this ; even though the cusps of the houses represem
ting long and short journeys (9th and 3rd), were fixed signs, but
this lessens the tendency somewhat (p . 54 ,
Thus one might treat separately each house and the influences

acting in it.
When treating the progressive positions we will refer to this horos

COpe again.

General Remarks.

In judging the action of the planets we shou ld always hear in
mind that

planets in angular houses 1 , 4 , 7 , 1 influence the body,
succeedent houses 2, 5, 8, 1 the feelings,
ca dent houses 6, 9, 1 the intellect.

The ruler of the horoscope shou ld be special ly studied. When the
D goes from d to 8 G) , i.e. is waxing, the obj ective consciousness
striving after outward observation comes more to the fore.
When the D goes from 8 to d C) , i.e. is waning, the consciousness

is more subj ective, seeks the inner side of things.

The G influence in the horoscope is stronger when above the
earth, and the D is below it. The D influence is stronger when



above the earth and the G) is below.When the ru ler of the sign inwhich
the Sun is posited, is in the same sign, the influence of this sign appears
very strongly in the character.

A most favourable position is, when ascendant, Sun and Moon are

in different kinds Of signs, e .g. ascendant in an earthy sign, Sun in a

fiery Moon in an a iry sign. This produces greater adaptability and
less one-sidedness.

Many planets in one house close to each other is unfavourable ,
because through the rapidly su cceeding Moon-aspects (by progression,

see p . all kinds of occurrences and conditions fol low each other
qu ickly and crowd each other out, as it were .

The planets d ispersed through the horoscope , denotes adaptabil ity
and changeability.

It is as necessary to trace the para llels as the other aspects, both
in the radix horoscope and by progression. By insu fficient knowledge
of the exa ct degree of M . C. and asc. one is Often obliged to neglect
the mundane para llels, and if we a lso neglect the zodiaca l para llels,
we but ha lf do our work (p .

If we use therefore the so-cal led abbrevia ted ephemeris inwhich the
’

declina tions a re not given s sa
, we ought for correctnes ke , to provide

ourselves with the decl inations of the planets and of the cusps from
’

Raphael s Ephemeris for the year in which we were born.

The fau lts which are indicated by aspects in the eastern ha lf of the
horoscope are more controlled by our wil l h

, than t ose falling in the
western ha lf. The latter seem to form an almost fixed part of our cha
racter, whereas the former take more the shape ofbad tendencies or habits.

A planet in M. C. and in strong aspect to D or 8 exercises a visible
influence on the shape of the body and shou

, in judging, it ld therefore
be considered as well as the ascendant and its ru ler.

The Sun does not have its grea test influence with most people , until
the second hal f of l ife . During the first half theMoon ru les principally,
especial ly

‘

up to the 8th year of childhood.

With woman the Moon has much greater influence thanwithman,

so with woman the Moon-aspects shou ld be special ly considered.With
the man a lso who has the Moon in an angu lar house ; or strong by

—
aspects, or the Moon as ruler the Moon-ac

, or a watery sign rising tion,

will be very strongly felt.

Many oppositions and squa re aspects give a difficu lt l ife with many
obstacles to be overcome , but at the same time it gives cha racter.

A horoscope without inharmonious ar
, but with many h monious aspects,






The planets that form a strong aspect with the cusp iof a certa in
house , have moreover a very great influence on all a ffa irs concerning
the house . SO one should also study these planets in all their aspects
and follow them in the progressive aspects for the fu ture, just as
well as the planet that is in that house , and the ru ler of that house .

The G) and D both very strongly afflicted gives weak eyes, in some
cases even blindness.

With the aspects of is and t? one shou ld remember that the good
aspects are Often weaker in their action than the conjunction and the
inharmonious aspects.

‘
'

During the time of its revolution when a planet is nearest the earth:
it exercises the strongest influence.

The Influence of the Fixed S tars.

O f the fixed stars the ancient Persians called Regu lus, Antares, Alde
baran and Foma lhou t : the four wa tchers of the heavens. Excepting the
last, they are very close to the ecliptic . Regu lus may even be occu lted
(covered) by the Moon. Regulus is as watcher in the South in $2,

Antares in the West in Aldebaran in the East in I I , Fomalhout in
the North in 38. It is the mouth of the sou thern fish.

The astrologers of the middle-ages and earlier, had long lists Of
carefu lly computed fixed stars, and many modern astrologers as well
have the habit of inserting important fixed stars which are in the neigh
bourhood of the Zodiac , and often in one of its signs in the horoscope ,
especia lly when they are in ascendant or M . C. or in conjunction with
one Of the planets.

The fixed stars no doubt influence our Cosmos and therefore man
a lso, and we must not only accept this for those near the Zodiac, but
for all stars in the heavens ; for all stars are in a certa in relation to
the Zodiac, no matter what latitude they have . The influence is
however such, that it escapes our observation and as long as we do
not know it clearly, as with the planets, we had better not lose ourselves
in fantasies about the separate fixed stars, at least not during the
first years of astrological study.

We might regard the influence that comes from the various parts
of universa l space to us and that we call the influence of the 12 zodiacal
signs, as the combined action of all fixed stars placed in this part Of

of heaven. The subdivision of it, such as the decanates etc.
even al l degrees taken separately, show the combined action of the
stars being in that resp . part.



151

That the belief in the action of the fixed stars is of old date , the
Bible informs us in a number of places. Job has spoken Of the influence

“ ”
of the Sun, Moon and st “

ars , Of the sweet” influence of the Pleiades etc.

P tolomy (in his Tetra B iblos) also accepts the influence of the fixed
stars on earth and man ; indeed, can there be any l ife in the Cosmos
that does not exercise its definite influence on any other integrant part ?

S ensitive Places in the Horoscope. Duration of Life.

The Hyleg . It is universally considered that our health and in gene
ral our vita lity are dependent on the position of Sun, Moon and ascen
dant in the horoscope and on the aspects these three centres receive .
With woman and with children the Moon especia l ly has a very great
influence , with man the Sun, especial ly after middl e-age.

Any affl iction of these three points may therefore endanger l ife , but
experience has taught us, that it is chiefly afflictions in certa in parts of
the horoscope that are dangerous, and that in every horoscope a defin
ite centre may be indicated which when a ffl icted , endanger, s l ife .
This point which is, as a ru le , one of the three mentioned centres,

may be the Pars of Fortune , .(see p . 98) or one of the planets, is
called the Hyleg or Apheta G iver Of Life .
When this Apheta is a ffl icted by the Anareta or destroyer of life ,

d eath usual ly fol l “
ows. I) or 8 usually plays the part of Anareta , but

in some cases also 111 , (D, D or 8. The (9 may act strongly as destroyer
of l ife when the Moon is Hyleg and when Qt or 52 does not support
the Hyleg by good aspects.

In order to be Hyleg, Sun or Moon must be in the houses 7 , 9, 10
°

O in the first part of house 1 1 , or within the orb of 5 distant
from it.
If the Sun is in one of these places, it is Hyleg with man.

If the Moon is in one of these places, it is Hyleg with woman.

Raphael takes the Sun always asHyleg withman, evenwith night-births.

If with man the Sun is below the horizon, or in the 8th or 12th
house far enough from cusp 9 and cusp 1 (here we al l °

ow 10 at least
for the Sun) we take the Moon as Hyleg, provided it be in the houses,

°
7 or 9 or 10 or in the l st ha lf of 1 1 , or within the orb of 5 from the
cusp °

of9 and 1 , (with woman we al low at least 10 here for the Moon).
If the Moon does not agree with the conditions, the ascendant is

counted to be Hyleg . Some astrologers in some cases take the Pars of
Fortune and the ruler of the ascendant to be Hyleg.

As Anareta is taken that p lanet that strongly a ffl icts the Hyleg. So
i f Sun, Moon, and ascendant do not receive bad aspects, but on the
contrary receive good aspects from the benefics, a long life may be
expected .



The Sun gives as Anareta the same diseases as Mars, but less
pronounced and acu te .
An indication of a violent death, or death by unfortunate so-cal led

“
coincidence” is if e.g. both (9 and D are il l-aspected by the malefics.

An a ffl icti ‘
on in Y’

11 n z i
, 1 , Z a d : s more dangerous.

By taking the distance from the Anareta to the Hyleg and transpos
ing it into time, according to the velocity of the planet one

obtains the probable time of death. But everything connected with the
progressive positions shou ld be taken into account (More of this later).
For . the present we had better leave suchl ike ca lcu lations a lone . It

is so complicated that usually something is omitted and even if that
were not the case, we can hardly define, how strong a certa in aspect
will be in its effect. One might judge its effect by the effect of the
like aspect in a former time, but the conditions under which it recurs
will a lways be different.

In the history of astrology numerous examples are recorded ofastrol
ogers who have predicted their own death in some cases correc t
to a day. (Keppler with Wa llensteyn but history is silent abou t
the numerous blunders made in this direction.

But any positive resu lts prove that it is possible to arrive at an

accurate effect by astrologica l compu tations.

A number of years ago, the dea th of the Czar of Russia was pre
dicted by a well-known astrologer, the precise time wasgiven. Czar
Nicholas in stil l l iving. It is true he had to go through a very hard
time, as regards illness and in other ways, during that particu lar period,
but predicting this wou ld not have caused any d ifficu lty to any seeker
in the astrological school .
Other sensitive points in the horoscope are the Nodes of the Moon

,

’

23) Dragon s he
’

ad and Dragon s ta il , and the Pars of Fortune
We have seen previously (p . 1 10) what they represent and how they

are to be found (p .

The Progressive Horoscope.

Everything in nature is subj ect to development , to evolution ;
everything repeats itself periodica lly and to an ever higher degree of
perfection. We see this repetition in nature round us and though this rising
higher may often escape us, yet the evolution is present there . Our
period of observation is too short to notice it everywhere .

We ’

can see this repetition in the world s history, i f we study the
great periods of cu lture and compare them with later conditions: Our
present time e. g. is a repetition of the Egyptian—Chaldean—Assyrian
B abylonian period of cu lture , the _time when the knowledge of the






The Zodiacal Directions.

“1 have grven Thee each day
for each year.

Ezechiel

The zodiacal directions are by most astrologers regarded as the most
reliable directions re predictions. The chief reason surely is, that with
these directions a difference of a few minutes in time of birth does not
cause a great mistake in the calcu lations. This matters of course when
we regard the ascendant and M. C. progressively e. g. with the M. C.

°
1 difference makes a mistake in the predictions of a year. This may
put us on the track of the exact M. C . and so of the exact time ofbirth.

If we are sure that we have the correct cusps of the houses, the
mundane directions may become of great use. They frequently give the
solution to certa in occurrences in our l ife , that we cou ld not expla in by
the zodiacal aspects only.

The zodiaca l directions are formed by the progression ofthe planets
and of the cusps (chiefly asc. and M. C .) with which the ru le is, to
count a day for a year. So the Sun moves by progression abou t

° ‘ '

the D 12 8 abou t 40 etc. in a year ; the ephemeris for the year
of birth indicates this da ily motion precisely. The Zenith or M. C. moves
p °
rogressively ’ °

1 and the ascendant from 40 —2 (See Ephemeris).
We might compare the action of the aspects, formed in one day of

l ife, indicating the conformable aspects of one yea r of l ife, with
the motion of the hands of a clock , the little hand progressing one

minute while the big hand progresses 12 minu tes. The motion of 1
mi ’

nute by the l ittle hand comprises in it 12 minutes motion of the big
hand . With the progressive horoscope the ratio is not but 1 365.

One day in the progr. horoscope therefore comprises one whole year
0 f lrfe.

As genera l ru le we may take it that when the ascendant increases
,

in velocity during the progression, the personality will come more and
more to the fore , and in the opposite case , so when the velocity of
the asc. decreases, more opportunity will rise for the growth of the
individuality.

The ascendant denotes the manifestation of the Ego through the
physical body, while by the progression of the M. C . our spiritu al growth
is indicated . Every new degree brings us new opportunities to progress.

’

The position and the aspects of the mal efics in the radix must, of
course , be taken into account.



155

C al cu lation of the Progressive Aspects 1
. )

The calculation of the progressive aspects is as fol lows : The birth
in our example horoscope was on May 16th 1913 at a .m. local
time , the Hague .

Progressive aspects Of the G) .

The first planet with which the G) by progression forms an aspect,
° ’ ‘ ’ °

is 9. 9 is in 26 5 V and the G) in 8 24 If we follow up the
Sun in the ephemeris, we see that the next day i .e. by pro ession a

year later (so in the Sun is at noon Greenwich time in 8 25 This
must be reduced to a .m. local time for the Hague . The difference
in time with Greenwich is 20 minutes, so we get a .m. Gr . time
i .e. 4 hrs. 30 minutes before noon Gr. T.

’

In 4 hrs. 30 m . the Sun moves ri: so the Sun s position at the
h ° ’

our of birth is on May 17th 25 46 8 .

The G) moves by progression in a year i.e. per month a little
less than In order to come to the aspect to Q the G) has tomove

°
26 5'— ° ’

25 46 z:

The Sun moves through these
’

19 in months 3 months 24
days, so the progressive 6) comes in y_2 in the radix horoscope on the
9th of Sept. 19 14 .

The next aspect is formed wit ° ’

h GB (in 27 9 m). In order to reach
th ° ’

e 8 to 63, the Sun has to move on 1 4 more than to M 9. The Sun
moves this distance in 13 months, so Oct. l st 1915 is prog. G) 8 69 r.

The following °
aspect is prog. G) A D radix ’

. The D is 2 13 so

i °
n order to form this aspect ’

, progr . G) must be in 2 13 I I . On May
23rd ° ’

. at noon (in 1920) the G) is in 1 43 I I , so at a .m. Gr. T.

’ °
1 1 le '

ss i.e . 1 32 I I so, it
’

has sti ll to go 41 in order to come to
° '

2 13 11 . In a month it moves so in month, or 8 months6 days
i .e. Jan. 2zud 1921 pr. G) is A D r.

The next aspects are : resp . progr. G) d b and progr. Q Let us
cal cul ate the latte °

r. Mars is in V 6 The progr. Q is on May 28th
° °

(i.e. in 1925) in 1 1 6 so at the hour ofbirth in I I 6 far,
to form the aspect. The Sun moves through the ’

se 4 in month
24 days, so we have to count 24 days back from May 16th 1925. We
get : on Apri l 22th 1925 prog. G) d r.

The fol lowing aspects are : progr. G M 8, and progr. G) A lit radix .

Let us calcu late ° ’ °
the latter. If" is in 3: 7 33 so the® ’

must be 7 33 11
,

to form the aspect.
O ° ’

n May 29th, so in 1926, progr, G) is in 7 29 11 i.e. at the hour
,

of birt ° ’

h 7 18 I I
, so the Sun has still to move through It does this

in 3 months, therefore on August l 6th 1926 progr. G) is A It" r.

The native on the whole, need not complain of having few good
Sun-aspects in fu ture .

1) Compare Raphael
’

s Ephemer is for May 1913 at the end ofthe book all through
this chapter.



156

We can simplify these calcu lations a l ittle , by calcu lating all progres
sive positions not for the hour of birth but for noon Greenwich Time.
In this manner we Obta in the progression for a couple of months later
(in this case) and we have the advantage of being able to see at a
glance the positions of the di fferent planets at tha t date for future years.

The following is the method : The birth occurred at am. Gr .

T. i .e. 4 1} hours before noon Gr. T. We have now to calcu late to how
many months and days, progressive time , this agrees.

24 hours progr. time is 12 months, so 1 hr. progr. time will be
month, and hrs. 2 months 8 days.

Noon Gt .T . gives us therefore in this horoscope the progr. positions
for 2 months 8 days after May 16th of any year, that is, for J u ly 24 th.

Thus the necessity of subtracting the motion during hours is avoided .

In this manner we will ca lcul ate a few of the progressiveDaspects.

The first aspect the D form
°

s is pr. D A b r . in 9 . 5 In the year
of birt °

h, at noon, so on May 16th, the D
’ '

is in 4 55 a i.e. 55 from the
place w ’

here the aspect is formed . The Moon smotion betweenMay l 6th
° ’ ’

and 17th 14 16 i .e. per month by p
°

rogression, 14 16 12
’ ° ' ” ’

136 12 1 1 1 20 i.e . a day. For 55 the D therefore wants23 days.

SO on Aug. l 6th 1913 progr . D is A b r.

It will be easier for us if we calcu late the resp . positions of the
Moon for the 24th of each month and compile a table of them as follows.

The progr. motion of the D for the first year of l i fe i .e. between
M ° ’

ay 16th and 17th was 14 or per mont
°

h 1 1 1 SO we get :
Positi °

on progr . D on Ju ly ’

24 . 1913 is 4 55 a
° ’ ”

Aug. 6 6 20
° ’ ”

Sep . 24 . 1913 7 17 40
O ° ’

ct. 24 . 1913 8 29
° ’ ”

Nov. 24 . 1913 9 40 20
° ' ”

Dec. 24 . 1913 10 5 1 40
° ’

Jan. 24 . 1914 12 3
Feb ° ” ”

. 24 . 1914 13 14 20
° ’ ”

Mrch. 24 . 19 14 14 25 40
° '

Apr. 24 . 1914 . 15 37
° ” ”

May 24 . 1914 16 48 20
J °
une ' ”

24 . 1914 1 7 59 40
J °
u ly '

24 . 1914 19 1 1
Going over the list, we see that between Aug. z4ib and Sep . 24th

the progr. D forms 2 aspects, viz . an 8 d and a 7<8. TheDisAug. 24th
° ’ ”

191 ° ’ ‘ ’
3 6 6 20 in a and 6 6 16 in V the

, so D has to go through
anothe ’

r 9 It moves a day, so in a littl e more than 4 days
after Aug. 24th “

, i.e. on Aug. 28th 1913 progr. D is 8 o r.

° ’

8 is 6 56 in 8 , so in order to form the aspect the progr . D has to
move anothe '

r 49 which takes it abou t 2 1 days. So 21 days after
Aug. 24th i.e. on Sep . 14th 1913 progr. D is F ii r.






The ascendant and the M. C . as well , also the cusps of the houses
have progression. When we know one of the progr. cusps, we may
find the others in the table of houses.

Suppose we have to cal cu late the progr . houses for the year 1928,
i.e . for May Bl st therefore (the 15th day a fter May we find on

that day for S . T. 4 h. 33 m . 3 1 s.

We continu e in the same way as in calcu lating the radix horoscope :
S . T. noon . . = 4 h. 33 m. 31 s.

time before noon 4 h 10 m .

subtract
S . T. for progr. horosco e 0 h. 23 m . 31 s.

In the table ofhouses for London N .L.)we find for this time as
°

ascendant ’ ° ‘ ’

0 34 Q , for M . C. 6 V and the other cusps as indicated .

We might also arrive at the same resu lt in this way.

We k °
now that the M. C. by progression moves onward 1 a

,year,
that is for 16 years (15 years+ the year of birth included) The M. C.

°
in the radix horoscope was 20 912; pl ° °

us 16 brings us 6 in V . We
look up under 10 in the table of houses and find for the cusp of the
other houses the concurring degrees.

Now by inserting the planets as we find them on May S l st noon
Greenwich time in the houses, we get the progr. hor. for July 24th 1928.

The orbs in the p rogr. hor. are counted to be very little . Indeed, one
c “
ounts the action to be beginning, when the aspect ”

is fu ll , but we
might take it as certain that the influence makes itself felt before . In
this case we find the following aspects in Operation in the progr. hor.

progr. D ‘

d progr. d D Qt pr.

’

progr . 8 o progr. I) A pr. rfi

progr. I) A progr. in.

These are the aspects the progressed planets form with each other,
not with the radix planets ; the latter we Obtain, of course , by com
paring these positions to the radix-horoscope.

Sun-Revolutions 1
. )

The recurring of the Sun in the same place Of the zodiac as it was
at the moment of birth, is a most important point of time , because then
a new influx of spiritual and material l ife takes place . The circumstan
ces the aspects under which this influx happens, may reveal very
much to us.

‘

A horoscope is drawn for the exact moment when the Transit-Sun
arrives aga in at the exact place it occupied at birth. This figure may be

1) This chapter mi ht be skipped for the present by the student to whom the
preceding causes ditti ties.



159

drawn for every year and is therefore call ed also year
-horoscope. It is

of less importance than the progressed-horoscope.
The positions and aspects by progression and the mundane aspects

are of course the most important, but their action may be fortified or

weakened by the year-horoscope. A very favourable year-horoscope ,
however, can never put the bad progressive aspects for that year out
of effect and the reverse.
When a bad aspect in the year-horoscope fal ls on or near the

place of one of the planets (especially G) or D), of asc. or M. C. of
the radix , its action will be mu ch greater than if it were not the case.
It is favourable when the asc. in the year-horoscope is about the

same as in the radix or in good aspect to it ; and it is unfavourable ,
when they are in bad aspect to each other.
It is a lso bad, when the houses 6, 8, 12 of the radix fal l in the asc.

of the revolution horoscope (bad for the hea lth especially). The 7th
house of the radix on the asc. of the rev. hor. will bring quarrels and
lega l persecutions, provided these matters are indicated in the radix
horoscope . If these houses in the radix are strong and well aspected,
the year-horoscope cannot have the effect of bringing it to pass.

A maleho in an angu lar house of the year-horoscope afflict ing Sun
or Moon, is an indication of struggle and care . A benefi c in the angles
(in aspect to G) or D) denotes a good time . Qt or Q e.g. in 5 (in the
year—horoscope) and at the same time Qt or 9 ru ler of 5 in the radix ,

denotes pleasures and a pleasant time with one ’s children etc. This in
the same way is applicable to each house.
If '

the rul er of e .g. 9 (in the radix) is in the M. C. of the year
horoscope , it indicates successfu l study in the philosophica l or religious
line, it may also indicate a long journey.

G) and D ill aspected in an angle (of the year-horoscope) predicts
di fficul ties and troubles, in 4 troubles with the father or domesti c
worries, in 1 illness, in 10 troubles through the cal ling, in 7 domestic
quarrels or disagreeables with the artner or with public institu tions.

It is bad also, when a malefic (in the radix) fal ls in the asc. Of the
year-horoscope .

The D in the year-horoscope on the place of a malefic in the radix
means a year fu l l of misfortunes, especially on the days when the
transit 6) comes to the place of or in opposition to the radical malefic
or the D in the year -horoscope .

The transits 1) across the places of the planets in the year—horoscope
have also an influence and shou ld be traced .

Further, the days when the transit G) comes to the place of one of
the planets in the year~horOSOOpe , shou ld be noticed. Those days are

full of events corresponding to the aspects the resp . planet receives
in the year-horoscope .

1) See Chapter on Transits p. 161 .



The D in the year—horoscope on the radix ascendant, means changes
and journeys for the year.
The ru ler of the radix horoscope in the ascendant of the year-horo

scope, predicts a good year as regards hea lth and for other reasons.

I llustra tion of the ca lcu la tion for the Sun-revolu tion.

°
The G) in our example-horoscope was at the moment ofbi rth in8 24
We want to know e .g. when, in the next year , the Sun occupies

exactly the same place in the Zodiac and then we can cast for that
moment the year

-horoscope for 1914 . Looking up the ephemeris for
1914 we see for the position Of the Sun :

” ”
Positi °

on 6 on May 16th 1914 at noon Gr. T. 8 24 45 38
°

or Position 6) onMay 16th 1914 at p . m . 10 0 . time ' ”
8 24 45 38

Positi ’

on G) at birth w °
as 8 24 49

”
Distance still to cove ”

r 3 22
° ’ ”

Position G) on May l 7ib noon Gr. T. 8 25 43 26
° ’ ”

Position (9 on May l 6th noon Gr . T. 8 24 45 38

’ ’ ”
G) s motion in 24 hrs 57 48

SO we have to calcu late how much time the (Dwants to cover the
di ”
stance of 3 Therefore

’ ” ” ”
57 48 -2 3 22 z 24 hrs. x .

” ”
3468 202 24 hrs. x .

173 10 24 hrs. x .

x 240 + 173 z 1 hr. 23 m .

This added to the local time of p .m. gives the moment when
the G) occupies the same

place at birth as . 1 hr. 43 m . p .m.

S id . T. on May l 6th 3 hr. 33 m .

S T . obta ined 5 hr. 16 m .

In the table of houses for the latitu de of The Hague we find this
° ” °

has for ascendant m7 23 20 for the M. C. 20 11 etc.

We draw up the horoscope as usual , now for the time Of p .m.

In the same way we calcu late the Moon revolutions.

M 1
oon-Revolu tions and Da -

y Horoscopes. )
The horoscope is drawn up for the exact moment when the transit

Moon is on the place it occupies in the birth-horoscope . In general here
the same holds true , as is sa id Of the Sun-revolu tion, but the action
lasts only one month in this case . It is of less importance than the
preceding ; we might cal l it a month-horoscope .

1 ) See footnote p. 158.






I) by transit in f
o , 8 D

, , D progr. acts depressingly ; when the D by
p °
rogression has a velocity of 12 one might be held or bound
down for years together by this transit. By its retrograde motion, during
some portion of each year, I) tw ice a year passes the point whence
the aspect to the progr. D is formed , and each time for a few weeks,

one is exposed to the Saturn-action. In the most favourable case, with
great velocity of the progr. D, this reciproca l action lasts 5— 7 years ;
but in the most unfavourable case , when one is born with the
aspect b d D

, or 8 D , and the progr. D reaches no greater velocity
t °
han 12 one gets an_Opportunity to study during his l ife
time the Sat “

urn-action ( Saturn is hunting the

8 by transit acts only a few days and these transits are therefore
less important ; the same holds good of the stil l qu icker planetsQ and 8,
of course.

8 by transit acts for months, but its action is vague and impercept
ible to many. Here the position and aspects that 8 has in the horos
cope at birth, shou ld especially be noted . If its position is weak and i f
it does not form aspects to Q and D, its influence by transit will not
be noficed.

Of course , the action by transit of 151 , b and Qt is highly fortified
when they occupy a strong position in the radix .

Qt by transit in d and A to G) or D radix is a very beneficent in
fluence, that may extend over a couple of weeks, unless Qt becomes
stationary (D .) in either place or near it. In that case its action is prolonged
over a few weeks. This holds good also for the other planets and in
this case one will be able to clearly perceive the action of d , 52and 8.

If one knows only the year and the day of a subject’s birth, one

may, by following the transits Of m , b and Qt with regard to the posi
tion of the indicate with certa inty the native ’sgood and bad times,
attaching more importance here to the influences of at and b than to
that of Qt .

In particular those planets that are strongly afflicted in the radix ,

will show their bad action by bad transits Of the malefics, e .g. 8 wil l
then produce a ll kinds of l ittl e troubles, quarrels etc, 3 disagreements
with women, etc.

Not only the transits over, and in aspect to, the radix planets have
to be traced, but also the transits to the positions of the progressive
planets, for here also the action of m, b and Qt is felt.
Further the transits of the benefics and malefics through the di fferent

houses of the horoscope , cause their favourable and unfavourable action
on the di fferent matters represented by the house.



163

Thus e . g. the transit of Qt through 10 will produce su ccess in
business ; through 1 1 pleasant acqua intances ; through 2 financia l advan
tages, etc. , whereas the transit of I) through 1 1 brings about disagree
mentswith, and estrangements from , friends ; through 6 illness or il l health ;
through 7 troubles in the domestic life etc.
Thus e.g. a transit Qt in good aspect to (D or D or to. Asc. orM . C.

is a good time to begin new enterprises, and i f Qt becomes stationary
in this place or in M. C. or A sc. the action will be very beneficent and
one may be sure of a good time.

The transits of Qt over any planet is favourable , but especially the
transits over G) , D , 9, 8 and 8 . Much depends on the aspects that
these planetsreceive at birth, because a transit a lways sets those aspect
vibrations into action. The transits Of the malefics over the radix planets
are a lways unfavourable . With transits of ma lefics over (9 or D or in
8 to their places it is advisable to keep ca lm , not to journey, and to
do no rash action, thus redu cing the danger of accidents, conflicts,
oppositions. It is less fata l when the malefics aspect the radix-positions
Of the G) , D or Asc. by transit badly.

With transits of the Sun, one has to pay attention to the aspects it
rece ives in the birth-horoscope , e . g . if at birth it is in 8 or D aspect
to b or 8 , every time the Q by transit passes its own place or that of
b or d (resp . in 8 or in D aspect) this a ffliction of the G) at birthwill
come into action and cause confl icts either in the health or in other
affa irs. These confl icts return every year at the same time . Eventua l
help of transit Qt may neu tral ise this action and somay a good direction
by progression.

Thus every one has his fortunate and his unfortunate month,
indicated by the daily motion of the Sun.

15 and 8 should also be taken into consideration in this sense,
though not to the same degree as the two former planets.

Other people speak of fortunate and unfortunate days. He who thinks
the Thursday a fortunate day will find Qt wel l aspected at birth, it
Monday , the D well aspected etc. (see p .

Trace the transits of the malefics with regard to Asc. and M. C. Just
like the transit~aspects to rad ix Sun and Moon, these will be noticed
in their action to cause little disappointments, troubles, slight indispos
itions, with Qt , pleasant encounters, agreeable news etc .

Especially trace the para llels which the planets form in their da ily
course (transits) with the planets in the radix ; the para llels offinb and
Qt have a special ly strong and lasting action. As the decl ination Of
these planets moves very slowly, the formation and the separation of
the transit-parallels take a long time . (See Ephemeris).

Not only in the house in which it occurs, does the transit-planet
exercise its action, but a lso in the houses that are in D or 8 aspect to
the former, e .g. I; coming by transit to the d of a planet that is in the
eleventh house, will produce not only estrangement from friends and



disappointed hopes, but the reaction will be felt in houses 2 , 5 and 8
al so, and will cause disturbances in the matters denoted by those
houses (p .

Eclipses

Eclipses may Operate very unfavourably in a horoscope , when they
fa ll on the places of G) , D and the malefics or in the ascendant or on

the M . C. of the radix horoscope. On the other hand if they fal l in
conjunction or in good aspect to a benefic, the action is favourable,
unless the benefic in the radix is i ll aspected.

The influence is strong only when in harmony with the directions in
action at that moment, or when at that moment there are no directions.

If a direction of Opposite meaning to that indicated by the eclipse ,
a lso operates by fal ling into aspect with a planet or one of the a fore
mentioned places, its a ction will be weakened thereby.

The action is usual ly some time in coming into operation.

According to the Metonic cycle of 19 years an ecl ipse falls after 19
years aga in in the same degree of the Zodiac ; so we can take this into
consideration with our predictions.

We see the law of period icity in action everywhere .

To illustrate the action of the eclipses, I quote the following (abbre
’

viated) from Sephar ial s Astrology.

King Edw °
ard VII had in his horoscope the Sun in 17 m . In May

1902 there was an ecl ipse exactly in opposition to this point and within
five weeks, on the very coronation-day, King Edward was la id up with
serious appendicitis. This event had been predicted by the astrologers

’

in many papers, an in Moore s a lmanac. Sepharial states there with
certainty, that the coronation will not take place on the fixed day and
predicts that King Edward will , on the sa id day, suddenly be seized by
a serious i llness which wou ld be mortal , in his Opinion. The latter part
of the prediction did not prove tru e ; the King recovered after a serious
i llness. At the moment of the eclipse the Moon was in conjunction to
the progr. Jupiter and this saved his l ife . That moment the Moon set in
Edw ’

ard s horoscope, a token that his former l ife was to undergo a great
change . We know to what a high degree this has been the case with
King Edward.

New Moon (Lunations) and Planetary Conjunctions 2)
fal ling on the place of M. C Asc O, D and also on those ofthe plan
ets, have a great influence on the events in the month following it.
We have to regard the D directions as the impellent forces of the

I See footnote p. 158.

2; See footnote p. 158.






stance), fire aboard vessels, mining ca lamities were foretold in the
London papers to resu lt from the conjunction of b and d in Gemini
on Aug. 24th 1913. The prediction has l iteral ly come true , the
newspapers mention disasters without end , especially in those countries
that come strongly under Mars. We might ask why e .g. Pegoud cou ld
make his caprioles in the air unpunished, during this.p eriod fu ll Of
danger ? The answer may be : because the above-mentioned conjunction
undoubtedly did not fa l l in the place of one of the planets in his
horoscope or in unfavourable aspect to them .

Periods of the Planets 1
. )

By observation it has been discovered that the planets show in
their action a fixed period icity ; different from that we treated under
the progressions. These periods are not fixed w ith r certainty for Uranus
and Neptune ; but for the other planets they are :

”
0 8 D A

for Saturn 30 15 10 years.

Jupiter 12 6 3 4
Mars 19
the Sun 19
Venus 8 4 2
Mercury 10 5
the Moon 4 2 1

This means that e .g. Saturn every 30 years reache f
s e.g. the o to

the place of the Sun in the radix horoscope ; every 15 years it comes
in 8 to that place ; every yrs. in D and every 10 yrs. in A to that
place . The Moon has periods of 4 , 2 , 1 and yrs, very short periods.

Especially important are those of Saturn, Jupiter and Mars, in relation
to the place of the Sun at birth. The ca lcu lation is very simple . If we
take °

e .g. in our horoscope of p . 144 , Jupite
’

r (17 39 in 76) and direct
it ° ’

to the (9 (24 49 We see that Jupiter forms a A aspect to the
°

Sun, the A is fu ll but for 7 We have to ca lculate how long
a fter birt ’

h according to Jupiter s period this aspect is fu ll . Jupiter moves
t °
hrough the complete circle of 360 period ica lly in 12 years, so in order

12
° 365

to cover 1 it wants £2 12 days, that °
is for 7

0
86 days. Thus the trine aspect is fu ll 86 days after birth (May 16th
i .e. on Aug. loth 1913. So 4 years later on Aug. loth 1917 the d
of Qt to G) radix , takes place and this 8 of Qt returns every 12 years,
so in 1929 , 194 1 etc.

1) See footnote p. 158 .



167

The next A aspect comes 4 years later, so in 1933 and 1945 .

The D aspect comes 3 years later, so in 1932 and 1944 .

The 8 comes 6 years later, so in 1935 and 1947 .

The effect of the weaker aspects is usua lly imperceptible, but those
of the 4 above-mentioned aspects will be observed more or less by
every student in his own horoscope , though these periodical influences
work less strongly than the directions.

I) in unfavourable , periodical direction to G) radix , brings losses,
misfortune , dishonour, slander, and if the G) is Hyleg, illness.

D irected to the D radix , the same and Often death in the fami ly .

Directed to Q, difficu lties through women.
I

Directed to 8, disagreements through correspondence, through child
ren, etc.

D irected to d , accidents, wounds ; to Qt, financial losses.

Whether one can a lways perceive these influences on the radix
planets, is not certa in, because they are usua lly qu ite overshadowed
by the ru ling directions. But those to the Sun, and often a lso those to
the Moon (especial ly with woman) will be observed clearly ; principal ly
with the d and 8.

The action of Mars in its periodica l directions is only short —, a fter
its nature .

Jupiter in its good per. aspects (8 and A) operates very beneficial ly,
bringing friends of consequence , ga in and prosperity. One may
Observe especially the periods of prosperity every 12 years. It may
happen that at the same time very unfavourable directions operate and
then this favourable Jupiter-infuence will be able only to bring some
slight improvement or benefit.

The periodica l direction of the Sun to the d or 8, Of d and b is
a lways more or less dangerous, whereas the periodica l direction of the
Sun to the d and A of Qt and 2 is favourable .

The periodical d irections of the Moon with the different planets
operate a few weeks at most and cause many little changes. Most
astrologers pay too l ittle at tention to these periodical influences.

For the present the student shou ld notice only the zod ia ca l d irections
and para l lels and trace the transits of the p lanets. He might neglect the
sun and the moon- revolu tions, the ecl ipses, luna tions, and thep laneta ry
periods.

The Planetary Hours.

It is evident that the days of the week in the various languages are
derived from the names of the planets e .g.

Sunday, English (Sun), Dutch Zondag (Zon), German Sonntag (Som e .

Monday, English (Moon), DutchMaandag (Maan), French Iundi (Lune)
Ital ian Lunedi (Luna), German Montag (Mond).



Tuesday, French mardi (Mars), Ita lian Martedi (Mars).
Wednesday, French mercredi (Mercury), Ital ian Mercoledi (Mercury)
Thursday, English (Thor or Jupiter), Ital ian G iovedi (Jove), Dutch (Don

derdag) and German (Jupiter rn connectionwith l ightning and thunder, Thor).
Friday, French vendred i (Venus), Ita l . Venerdi (Venus).
Sa turday, English (Saturn), Dutch Zaterdag (Sater Saturn).
The names of these dayshave been arr ived at, from the knowledge that

the different days are ru led by the planets they are named after.

Sunday is governed by the Sun, Monday by the Moon, Tuesday by
Mars etc. or rather : the first hour after sunrise is on Monday ru led by
the Moon, the first hou r a fter sunrise is on Tuesday ru led by Mars etc.
Thus the time from sunrise to noon is divided int0 6 parts, and every

part that is equal to or more or less than an hour (dependent on the
time of sunrise) is respectively ru led by the various planets in thisorder

‘
1—G) , 2—9, 3—8, 4 —D, 5— b, 6—Qt, 7—d , 8 etc. Likewise the
time from noon till sunset is divided into 6 equal parts, just as the time
from sunset up to midnight and from midnight to sunrise.

the Planetary Hours.

Tu . W . Th. W
O

2 D
C O Q
I

3 K A H
‘

4 - I

h U

5 N Q
6 D

C N p
7 b

o W m
I
'

1 U N m

The l ist needsno further explanation. OnWednesday e.g. the first hour
is ru led by 8, the 2nd by D, the 3rd by 17. etc. The 7th hour is the hour
after noon and also the hour after midnight.

“
For each month we can readily calcu late the duration of the hours

if we divide the time between sunrise and noon and between noon and
sunset by 6 and fill in the correct hours for the numbers 1 to 7. The
8th hour for the same day begins therefore at the top in the same row,

and the 7th hour begins a lways exactly at noon etc.
The Cabba lists and Thaumarturgists a .o. keep their mental and

religious practices at definite planetary hours and set great store by it.
We can state that in the Ma rs and the Mercur -

y hours and in the
Mars and Mercury-periods of the other planetary hours e .g. the greater
number of accidents occur, owing to a more or less agitated, nervous
cond ition during that time . Every sensitive person may observe for him
self that the influence is di fferent according to the planetary hour and
its sub-

per iods (see below).
According to the planetary hour one is more or less fit for this

work or that, in a better or worse mood. Much has been written






That the moment of conception, at which the incentive is given for
the birth of the earthly vehicle , which must serve the Ego during its
physical existence, is an extremely important moment , none is l ikely
to doubt, and therefore it is evident that the horoscope drawn up for
this moment may revea l mu ch. The knowledge of it is however still
very primitive , has but begun in fact , and rests .principally on

surmise .

Many people believe that this horoscope represents the astra l body
and its environment, in contra-distinction to the birth-horoscope
which, taken in a genera l sense , represents the physical body and its
environment. Some distingu ish two different moments of conception
and draw up a horoscope for both moments, of which one represents
the astra l body, the other the Individual ity, according to their stand
point. Opinions about this point differ, but for that very reason it is
interesting for the astrologer to form some idea of this. It is the way
to arrive at a clearer knowledge of it .
Interesting studies have been made concerning the Epoch, in relation

to the future sex of the embryo, which throw some light on this mys
terious point. (Read about this a .o. Sepharial).

The Epoch-horoscope may frequently make clear to us some points
of the character that do not appear su fficiently in evidence in the birth
horoscope and it Often expla ins the premature death Of children where
the reason, otherwise , is not clear. It a ids in studying deform ities,
arising during the intra-u terine life by this is meant a lso all terato
logic products, and frequently gives the solution.

The Epoch-horoscope may also be used for the correction ofnormal
births and to make it thoroughly understood, we will take an example
of this, though we must at the same time, give warning that if not yet
conversant with astrology the student treads upon sl ippery ground.We
suggest its use only for making little corrections ; here it may be
of great value . That this method so often gives correct results is the
best proof of the truth Of the Ru le of Hermes or in other words of the
hypothesis that the Moon influences the moment of impregnation as

well as that of birth.

The Ru le of Hermes reads : The ascendant or descendant at birth
is the place of the D at conception and the place of the D at birth
is asc. or desc. at conception.

When we ana lyse the ru le of Hermes, we see that four cases
may offer, viz.

1 . D a t birth above the horizon and waxing .

The pregnancy is then less than 273 days and the position Of the
D during the impregnation becomes ascendant at birth.

2 . D at birth a bove the horizon and waning .



17 1

’

The pregnation is then more than 273 days and the Ds position
during epoch (conception) becomes descendant at birth.
3. D at birth below the horizon and waxing.

’

The pregnancy lasts more than 273 days and Ds position during
epoch becomes ascendant at birth.

4 . D at birth below the horizon and waning.

’

The pregnancy is less than 273 days and Ds position during epoch
becomes descendant at birth.

The average time of the normal pregnancy is 273 days i.e . 9
months 10 Moon-months 39 weeks. We see in the four cases
above-mentioned , when the pregnancy is longer , and when less than
273 days.

273 15



When the Moon is waxing we have to count the number ofdegrees
the Moon is distant from the asc. ; and when the Moon is waning the
d istance from the desc. This number of degrees divided by the mean
motion of the Moon during the first days ofEpoch, indicates the number
of days the pregnancy lasts shorter or longer than 273 days. When
the mean motion of the Moon in the first days of the pregnancy is
the table on p . 1 71 will be a help °

in calcu lation ; but when it is 14 e.g.

(see example on this page), we have to divide the number ofdegrees by 14 .

The d i fference may be 15 days at most with normal births.

The horoscope for the Epoch is in al l respects calculated in the same
way as the rad ix-horoscope ; we start however from the position of the
Moon at birth and take this as asc. or desc . of the Epoch horoscope.
We have to ca lcu late towhat day and what part of that day, this position
of the Moon agrees, if at the moment of conception it is asc. or desc.

The day of Epoch may be found by counting back 273 days, or
simpler by counting back one year and forward three months. It needs
no further explanation that in this way we might make a mistake Ofa
few days, for the months are not a ll of the same length, but notice
only the day of the week on which the birth took place . By taking the
same week-day we are sure to count exactly 39 weeks back.

Hav ing found the exact day of Epoch, we must calcu late what the
difference is between noon of the day obta ined and the time represented
by ’

the Moon s position on that day at noon. How this is done, an

example will show.

When this di fference between the two times has been found , we
know the number of hours and minutes that the conception took place
before or a ft er noon of the day in question and so arrive at the exact
time Of Epoch.

For this moment we draw up the Epoch or pre
-nata l horoscope

and by comp ’

aring the Ds place in this horoscope to the ascendant in
the birth-horoscope we can easily ca lcu late from their difference how
far we have to correct the ascendant , and a lso the time of birth.

Take for example a birth that was fairly accurately known v iz . that
of the president of the U. S Mr.WoodrowWilson. According to returns
h °
e was born Dec. 28th 1856 at p . m . at 79 W. Long °

and 38 N . Lat.
When we calculate the horoscope for this time and lati tude , with the

correction for S iderea l time °
, we find ascendant ‘

’

V 13 7 and M C. Z .

The Q is just in X and the D in X. The D has therefore
passed the conjunction G) and is going to the opposition, hence is
wax ing. It is above the horizon. If the D is waxing and above the
horizon the time Of pregnancy is less than 273 d. ; we have to calculate
how much less.

When the D is waxing, we calcu late the distance from the as
°

cendant, i.e. in this case ° ° ° °
6 30 + 30 13 79 The

mean motion of the Moon on March (i.e. 273 days before birth)
is so we have to divide ° ’

79 22 by 14 . That is less than 6. How






time of birth was almost correct ; for we have taken the rising sign
only ”

4 too l ittle . By looking up in the table of houses how many
degrees and minutes of the ascendant agreeswith the number ofminutes

’ ”
and seconds difference in S . T . , it is very easy to reduce these 4 to time .

The remark which is sometimes made, that one does not know the
time of birth exactly and that the position of the D is not accurately
known, and that therefore the asc. and desc. Of the Epoch horoscope
are incorrect, will not stand, because the slight difference of 1 degree

’

in the Ds position at birth and therefore of the asc. and desc. of
the Epoch horoscope wou ld mean as much as 2 hours difference in the
time of birth and this method of correction is applied only where the
difference is much l ess than two hours.

Another more simple method of rectification of the horoscope is
one of taking certain principal events in the native ’s l ife .

W e find the position of the Moon by progression during the time of
these eve ’

nts. If there is no data at al l , except the date , the moon s

position cannot b e fixed within the l imits of Now we change the
position of the Moon within these limits so, that it forms an aspect
conformable in action to the events referred to ; and draw up the horos
cope according to this surmised time . Then trace the transits, for if a
transit fal ls near the asc. or M . C. that will a lso point to the event,
change asc. and M . C . as often as is necessary to make the aspect by
transit “fu ll” . If there is no transit of the kind , try the same method with
the progressive asc. and M. C .

Do this with two or three events of which the time is known and
so find the correct asc. and M. C . and the correct time of birth. If the
two or three events indicate a l ittle difference in time, take the aver
age time.
This time may be subjected to correction by the Ru le of Hermes,

as given above , and when, by Moon-directions and transits of the plan
ets, we can find aspects conformable to the events, we may usually
be sure the calcu lation by the Epoch squares with it.
When we know the time of birth fa irly correctly , this method does

not present any extraordinary difficu lties, but when we do not even
know the exact date , the diffi cu lties become very great .
Another method for correcting is the followrng Col lect all events,

times of i llness, prosperity etc. of which the time is known make, an

orderly list of them and calcu late the progressive aspects of the G) , D
and planets during the past period of l ife . We see that the order of
the events is indicated by these aspects, but the time when they occur
does not qu ite agree to the time the aspects Operated. Find out the
average of this difference in time and so arrive at the correct time of
birth. It is a round-about, but very safe method , which might moreover
be checked by the one above-mentioned.

The asc., especially with i llness and the cusp of the M . C. with



175

changes in business or ca l ling, will most likely give d irections, for, when
afflicted, either of these two sensitive points is sure to be evidenced in
its respective way.

The ou tward appearance , the handwriting, the general character of
the native can give distinct direction as to the nature of the ascendant .
Any doubt e.g. between the last degrees of 3c and the first degrees of
‘ ’

V surely will not be possible. The impression of the personality therefore
may often put us on the track of the rising sign.

The profections (see p . 179) may also be of use, not only the 12
yearly, but even the yearly and monthly profections to find the
ascendant or the M. C. When e.g. the asc. by profection comes in
conjunction to a planet , the action of that planet will make itself felt,
especia lly that of b and Qt. The degree of expression is of course

for a great part dependent on the degree of that planet’s influence in
the horoscope in question, and further on the native ’s sensitiveness.

In the same way may transits (see p . 161) i.e. the passing of the
planets in their daily motion across the cusps of the houses help us
to define these cusps more a ccurately, e.g. if I) by transit comes on

the cusp of house 1 1 , one will experience estrangement, troubles with
friends or acqua intances, or frustration of a long cherished wish ; the
same planet entering the 7th house will give troub les with the wife
(or husband) or partner, and so on with the other planets, according to
their action (more of this later).
If there is a planet in the native’s ascendant, this may help in some

cases, though often it makes it more d ifficu lt, because it influences the
appearance the ascendant wou ld give . We have known a person born
in the years that Ia went through 8 by transit. We do not know his
hour of birth and yet are qu ite convinced he was .born with 8 rising
and 15 in the ascendant judging by the bu ild of his body combined
with great vital ity, coloured face , pecu l iarly bent, strong nose , Uranus
eyes, sudden fits of enthusiasm , and his heavy bass voice which in his
fits of enthusiasm makes such wonderfu l caprioles that people a great
distance Off stand still , thinking of some special phenomenon.

Correcting a horoscope is a lwaysgood bra in-exercise , requ iring al l our
intellect and facu lty of concentration. Superficiality and cursorinesswill
bring nothing but confusion ; patience and perseverance alone can lead
to a good resu lt. But our pa ins are amply rewarded, whenwe at length
arrive at a good issue ; for not until then, can we observe from day to
day how strongly in our feeling and thinking we react on cosmic
influences. Not until then do we begin to feel tru ly one with the Cos
mos. This is the reason why Astrology is so fascinating a study and
moreover of such great help in l ife .



Action of the Directions.

(Genera l Indications).
ln judging the effect, the different progressed aspects will have,

various points shou ld always be borne in mind.

First the mora l standpoint of the person, the height to which the
Ego has evolve

’

d. An example will make this clear. A bu tcher s boy e .g.

“
may under an Opposition of D pr. to d radix for the time the aspect
Operates, become a dangerous person and domischief amongst his fellows
with knivesor other sharp things, whereas the same aspect in the horo
scope of an exalted philosopher will probably express only in greater
impu lsiveness, apart from the effect this aspect has on the health.

The action of this aspect will be much more powerfu l , if there is
such an aspect in the rad ix horoscope. This holds good for all aspects.

It need not be exactly the same aspect, but something akin to it, as
e.g. in the above mentioned ’

case an 8, a D 0 or P. If there is
in the radix a favourable aspect between D and d , the impu lsiveness
will come strongly to the fore , and the bad side of 6 will keep more
in the background, than in the Opposite case .
A harmonious aspect by progression between C) or D and m or 8

will mean infinitely more with an exa lted individual ity than with a low
one, because the former can better respond to the high vibrations of
these two planets.

The directions formed with the planets in the rad ix have to be
looked upon as actions arising from inborn tendencies, and the directions
formed between the progressive planetsmutual ly, are influences operating
on resu ltant qual ities, and so on the progressive character.

The directions formed by the progressive Sun, are by far the most
important and they reach their fu l l action completely, when at the same
time identica l progr . D aspects are operating.

They are weakened by Opposite progr. D aspects during the time
these act, and the reverse .

The action of the progr. D aspects is hardly noticed , if a progr. Q
aspect of opposite action, is active .
Unfavourable D aspects will as a ru l e have little effect on the health,

unless inharmonious G) aspects are Operating simu ltaneously.

To the degree the D by progression moves on through the different
si s of the Zodiac (1 sign in 2 ‘/SI years on an average or each month

takes on, in its expression, the qua lities of the sign it passes
through, but the keynote of its action is a lways that of the sign it
was in at birth. Those who have a watery sign on the ascendant, or

O, D or many planets in watel b signs (especial ly are far more
responsive to planetary influences (especially D influences) than those
who have the earthy and fiery signs very strongly represented.

Those too who are entirely taken up with materia l things, (earthly
sings) seem to feel the influence l ess.






It is superfluous to state that the environment, changes of season
and temperature, other people etc. exercise an influence on our physica l
and spiritual l ife, but al l these influences are regu lated in Cooperation
with the cosmic powers and influence us by fixed ru les, according to
how they are brought to bear on our birth and progressive-horoscopes.

Another general rem “
ark on the acti ”

on of the malefi :

cs
’

Mars action by aspect a lways means a struggle. In its bad aspects
it brings excitement and strife and in its good aspects it impels us to
hard work or effort and gives us the strength necessary for it. Under its
influence we shou ld be especia lly heedfu l of impu lsive acting and
speaking, for we are then incl ined to say or do things we will after
wards regret.
Sa turn slackens and hinders ; viz. in its bad aspects it brings

Obstacles of all kinds in a slow but certa in way and in itsgood aspects
gives patience , deep and profound study, and in general well considered
and well finished work. It asks patience and concentration Of us, and
rewards according to our application of these qual ities.

Uranus operates suddenly, as lightning flashes withou t warning, both
under good and bad direction. Under its influence we may expect the
most unforeseen reforms and changes, beneficia l or otherwise accor
ding to the aspect. Every impu lsive action shou ld be evaded , though
one will be inclined to it , even more than under a Mars aspect .

Neptune in its good aspects gives diplomacy and in its il l aspects
the diplomacy rs applied wrongly, viz . we are either inclined to join in
conspiracies and swindles, or we become the victim of them .

We do not consider Neptune “ ”
a malefic



179

Mundane Directions, Profections 1
. )

The formation of these directions is based on the same principle as
with the mundane aspects (see p . viz . the proportionate distances
from the cusps define the aspects formed by direction. The M. C. moves
°
1 a year onward and the cusps of the other houses and the interjacent
places proportionately ; one may thus ca lculate the time that the planets
in their progression, form aspects with their radical places and l ikewise
also with te cusps. The mundane paral lels in the same way are formed
by taking the Meridian as directing point. These mundane directions
arise through the eart ’

h s rotation upon its axis and have nothing to do
with the Zodiac, but with the houses only 2

. )

O f these mundane directions we will treat only Of the so-called
Profections, as it is impossible to give for the mundane directions sim

plified calcu lations that are also su fficiently correct. Indeed , the zodiacal
directions more than su ffi ce for our pred ictions and moreover i f the
mundane directions are to be of use, we ought to be qu ite sure of the
cusps of the houses. One degree di fference in the M. C. gives a mistake
of a year in the predictions and , in the Asc Often more .
With the profections this mistake is much slighter.

We have twelve-yearly, yea rly and monthly profections. The former
are by far the most imp ’

ortant. We imagine that through the earth s
rotation upon its axis, each point of the zodiac revolves once fully in
12 years ; so the Asc M. C. , and the radix-places of the planets return
to their original places after 12 years. The Ascendant in thisway comes
in the various radix-houses and the planets form their various conjunc
tions to Asc, M. C. and to the radix-places of the planets.

Thus directly a fter birth the ascendant comes in the 12th house and
goes onward till on the next birth day it enters the 1 1 th house etc.

By the following simple method we can look up the protections in
an instant .

1 See footnote p. 158 .

2) There are different methods of direction of the planets and cusps, one

astrologer followin this, another that method , usua l ly tindin his own method
best, they are a based on the same cosmic law of perpetu a repetition in evolu
tion and may in a sense show us different sides of those repetitions.



180

Whee l to
The nerwheelwith divisionmay be turned in the ou ter,which remains sta tionary,

so that p lace of the Ascendant of the inner horoscope to conform
with th we can at once see the position of the revolving planets

We draw two horoscopes of different diameter, the smal ler ofwhich
may be turned in the larger. We make °

the houses 30 each and put
on the cu ps the 12 signs of the Zodiac, with the number of degrees
that is on the Ascendant, and put the planets in the exact place they
ought to be .

In our example horoscope we had Ascendant For sake
of convenience we will take °

20 £ 5 for the Ascendant and so for the
°

other cusp °
s 20 £1 , 20 up etc. We divide each house in 6 equa l parts,






We need not consider an Orb here . For instance a trine aspect of
the progressive Sun to Venus comes into action at the moment when
the progressive Sun forms an angle of exactly 120 degrees with either
Venus radix , or Venus progr.

be applied inversely, but the duration of the action is then
in proportion to the velocity of the planet which forms the aspect .
A Parallel is weaker than a J .

Genera l ru le. A good (harmonious) 6) direction (A 96
, , M , sometimes

d and P.) denotes friendship , advantage, help etc. of people or things
indicated by the aspected planet, by the sign from which the aspect
comes (resp . in which it takes place) and by the house or the houses
in which it occurs. A bad (inharmonious) 0 direction (8, D Q , 4 , some
time ’

s o and P.) denotes difficu lties, loss, i llness etc.
According to the mora l standpoint of the individual the action will
express now on the physical , now on the astral or mental plane —, that
is in our feeling and thinking (see Outlines of the Aspects p .

The G) directions influence the heal th, especial ly if the G) is hyleg (see
p . 151) honour, improvement of posi tion, promotion, favour ofhigh-placed
people , the father, and, in a feminine horoscope, the husband .

aspects becomes by this means an unequal led source to self-educa tion or in other
words of improving the character.

Moreover is indicated, where necessary, for what activities the different barmo
nions directions aremost appropriate, so that one may make the u tmost use of these
favou rab le periods, chiefly for formation of character.

By learning to control ou rselves, by banishing fear, envy, ha tred from ou r

mind, by cu l tiva ting kindness and wi llingness to help , we open at the same time
the door to a ll that is ood .

If we viz . positive y intend to maintain our equ ilibrium, even under the most
i “
nharmonious di rections, we learn to ru l "

e our stars . Be resolu te persevere, and
do not look back on a ttempts that have proved a fai lure. Astrology makes us

acquainted with the enemy and this is a great ain.

A remark often made by some Opponents of trology who are compel led by
the facts to acknow ledge its tru th, is that it compels man to be occupied too
much with himself, and consequ ently its thoughts are tu rned away frommankind
as a whole, of which he is after all an integra l part.

On the su rface this may seem tru e, bu t it is not so in rea li ty. W e leave ou t of
account the abuse that is made of Astrology by those who wou ld drag the science
down to be merely profi table cal ling .

For us who use Astrology as a means to arr ive a t self-knowledge and as a

system for self- ed ucation and imp rovement of the chara cter, there can be noques
ban of this, in our opinion ; for what we improve in our character may he lp
others a lso. If we want that which is good to radiate from us, we must first cul
tivate it in u s, withou t sou rce no cu rrent.

By studying the forces which perpetu ally come to us from the planetary centres
in the Cosmos, and form us and keep us, we simply apply the ancient proverb
“Man, know thyself” , for man is one W i th these forces and inseparab le from them,

and the first beginning, the a lphabet is the study of the twelve Zodiaca l signs
and of the planets, the consonants and vowels of the a lphabet of the Universe.

The significance of those letters must be well impressed in our memory, ifwewou ld
we ll understand the language which is spoken to us by means of these symbols.



183

In the h ‘

Ol OSCOpeS of young children the action sometimes expresses
with the parents and reacts secondarily on the child ; with a married
couple now and again we see the same reciprocity.

’

Q o P. D. Under this direction a qu ite new cycle of life begins ; so great
changes are indicated. If the Disbadly aspected it will ra ther mean a critical
period, accompanied by important changes which will lead at length to impro
vement. It is a new influx of the vital ity of the Sun, for which the Dis trans
mitter. A t first it may bring with it affection of a feverish nature, this is
especially the case with women.

6) A x D. A very favourable and beneficent influence inwhich the ih
d ividuality tries to cooperate in harmony with the personality.

, The spirit is
clear and intu itive, the health good. Thisposition brings changes ofa favourable
nature, we gain new knowledge and experience ofall kinds and new friends are
made. It means improvement and progression in all way.

Q 8 D A f; D , A very unfavourable aspect for the health, for domestic
a ffa irs and for business. It gives care and disappointments, struggle on every
side. It will bring competitors in the field against us, old friendswill turn from
us or refuse their aid . It may a lso bring illness and death ofparentsor friends.

The 8 is especially a very critical time.

’
Q) o M x A 8. Mercury, the planet ofthe intellect , now receives new force

from the Sun and our consciousness becomes enlarged. It is an excellent time
for all mental work . The spirit works qu icker than usuall and adapts ifself
easily ; this favourable influence will be of a lasting nature.

Q L] [a A 8. Will make the spirit changeable and fickle and may bring us
into unpleasing contact with people that come strongly under 8. The D aspect
cannot be formed till at the age of abou t sixty.

d A -x M 9. A very favourable direction, bringing sunshine and love in
life. t is favourable for all material affa irs as well as for our feeling and thinkin
It is a happ agreeable time in which new ties of friendship, especial ly wit
women are being formed ; a marriage is probable under this aspect.

Q C] [D 4 A bad time .as regards financial affairs, a tendency to great
expenses and osses. It brings troubles with women separations in the
family circle loss of friends. It is for artists espemally a difficult time. It

’

causes one s feelings and emotions to be upset, so one shou ld be careful of
forming a ttachments during this time.

Q) A x y_d . A favourable aspect bywhich our strength, courage, and spirit
of enterprise is fortified. Under this aspectwe come into contactwith energetic,
pushfu l Mars characters, who will influence us in a favourable sense. During
this time we may venture to risk and a ttempt anything and have the energy
and the power to bring it to a relatively successfu l conclusion. Beware

, , however,
of being too impu lsive.

G ’

) o 8 Cl etc. 5 . A very critical time of which we are likely to be cons
tau tly reminded . It is a time of serious difficu lties at home and in the world ,
a time in which life is in danger and in which we exposed to misfortunes



and all kinds of illnesses of an inflammatory na ture, fevers etc. The d is not
so bad as the other inharmonious aspects. Under these aspects honour and

good name may be in danger. By over-impulsiveness we are inclined to act
withou t thinking and so cause quarrelling and strife. It is a fight between the
higher and the lower self —, the animal qualities in man. By being continual ly
on our guard against the debasing influence Mars can bring,we canmake this
time a good period instead of a fa tal and destructive one. It means however
a hard fight against the lower self.
(9 d A Qt is one of the most favourable influences ; especiallywhen

we have the G) in good aspect to 21. in the radix, this period will be characterised,

by happiness, prosperity, success and good heal th. The spirit wi ll be jovial,
hearty and inclined to study along religious and philosophic lines. New ties
of friendship will be made. Much depends on themoral standpointwhether this
influence will be made use of in a ma terial or in a spiritua l sense, bu twhich
ever it be, it is advisable to make the most of this time.

Q 8 D etc. 91, A bad direction which may bring legal trouble, enmity of
the church, etc. It is a bad time for financial enterprises and for business people
bankcruptcy is not impossible. During this time the character is arrogant,
haughty, boastfu l (provided there is any tendency to this). The na tive is super
cilious and often makes himself appear ridicu lous and impossible in the eyes
of others. Monetary losses and adversities of a ll kinds may be expected .

G) x A etc. b. A good aspect that makes the spirit more reliable, more
patient and strong. It makes tempera te and staid, gives a greater realisa tion
of responsibility and tends to purer living. It brings a qu iet activity and under
this aspect we may expect help from people that will aid us to improve our

position permanently.
( d 8 [3 etc. b. Is a very unfavourable influence for everything, especi

ally 2ealth, as it is weakening to the vitality. It brings culties, disappoint
ments, losses and cares of all kinds and during this influence the spirit is
greatly prone to worry . If bad Moon aspec ts operate simu ltaneously theremay
be danger to life. Here the positions and aspects in the radix shou ld be espe
cially considered , because upon these our judgment must depend . Fight depres
sion as mu ch as possible and do not give way to selfish inclinations.

’
o H. An influence that works qu ite differently from the A mmmand

there ore must be treated apart. During this influence grea t changes in our

intui tions and our mental powers are denoted , new ties aremade, old ones
broken in sudden, unexpected ways. The consciousness is enlarged and we
become aware of the narrow circle in which we have moved so far ; we
become open to higher, wider thoughts. Under this influence we come into
contact with pecul iar characters and are sometimes placed in extraordinary
positions we shou ld therefore be on our guard.

G) x A etc. 131 . A very favourable aspect for our thinking as well as for
material conditions. It brings unexpected advantages in a sudden pecul iarway.

W e incline to travelling, to change, to reform . It is a very su itable tirne for
occult study and it will bring u s into contact wi th enlightened people who
will be of service to us .in tha t subject. Upon the whole it is a very pecul iar
time, rich in surprises, strange, unforeseen events and remarkable acquaint
ances. It is a time we shou ld do well to make as much as possible of, to

gather knowledge and experience.






Directions of the Moon 1
. )

The directions of the Moon Operate abou t three months when the
aspect falls in a fixed sign or comes from a fixed sign, and less from
the other signs. This may also be applied inversely.

Genera l ru le. A good (harmonious) D direction (A it M sometimes
d and P.) is favourable for the genera l health (especia lly if the D is
hyleg) and in a mental as well as in a physical sense . It influences the
possessions, the family-affa irs, the wife , mother and sisters. The Moon
directions a lso indicate the types of people with whom we shal l come
into contact, during the time the aspect is in operation.

Especial ly sensitive people , t.e. those who have a watery sign
for Ascendant, or many planets in watery signs and were born towards
midnight, (G) , and usually 8, near the northern meridian) respond
very strongly to Moon-influences. TheDand b near the northern meridian,

(Nadir) a lso in the ascendant, denote sensitiveness.

D ’
o P. Q . Usually gives changes in the circumstances of life as well as

in business. This position often leads to marriage. Both with man and with
woman. In general it means promotion and prosperity, though the health often
su ffers under this aspect. This is especiall the case with a woman where it
may bring abou t feverish phenomena. Muc depends on the Q) andDaspects
in the radix. This direction is the beginning of a new cycle of life under
new conditions and new responsibility.

A as G) . A very good aspect under which new ties of friendship
ormed, help of influential people and of the parents. Often bringsmarriage.

The heal th and the intellect are improved under this influence and success

and prosperity are assured under this aspect. So we shou ld make the u tmost
use of this period. The time is favourable for all kind of work especially
along intellectual lines.

D 8 D A D G . Unfavourable time for al l enterprises ; bad for hea lth. This
aspect becomes worse from angles or cardinal signs. The spirit is rebelliou s
during this time and too strongly taken up with itself, and brings abou t ditti
cu lties in the voca tion, with superiors with parents and friends. Circu lation

,

and digestion are often disturbed under this d irection.

D d A x x 8. Very good aspect for mental work, writing, study, literary
enterprises. It makes the spirit clear, active bu t also restless, and induces a

longing after change. If 8 in the radix forms a bad aspect to the D, or is
otherwise badly aspec ted , the d is unfavourable, as it brings to the fore all the
bad qual ities that are communicated to 8 by other planets.W e shoul d then espe
cially try not to indulge in the longing after change under this aspect , because
thiswill not bring improvement.
3) 8 D A [Q 8. Brings restlessness, cares, many small disagreements,
1 ) See footnote p. 181, 182.



187

indica ted a .o. by the planets tha t are in bad aspect to 8. If 8 is weak, there
is danger ofnervous breakdownand brain trouble. Correspondence o_f importance
shou ld not be dealtwith du ring this time, because we are liable to see and do
things wrongly. It brings troubles through mental work. It would be best to
suppress the desire to travel under this direction.

D d A x M 9. Under this aspec t many betrothals and marriages takeplace. The na tive is inclined to pleasure, company and art. All that is beau
tiful a ttracts and charms. It gives an agreeable, peaceful time, a time ofpleas
ant emotions.
D 8 D 4 [Q 2. Difficu lties with women, children and young people ; in

genera l a time fu ll of disappointment, grief and domestic sorrow. The native is
inclined to let himself lose during this tirne in the ma tter of the inclina tions
indicated by Venus. W ith woman it causes periodica l irregularities.

D A x 34 d . S ignifies an active time, a time fu ll of energy and desire
for work. The spirit is free, open and fearless. Those who hold positions
that come under D, in particu lar find their business flourish during this time.

W ith women a qu ick marriage or engagement often occurs under this aspect.
Under this Mars influence a journey is often undertaken ; it is a favourable
time for it.

D d 8 D A [Q d . When 5 is in ill aspect to the Moon at birth, this
d irection frequently gives wounds, accidents and a ilments ofa feverish, inflam
matory nature and sometimes brings death. It gives impu lse and recklessness
and if d is in an angle, the period of influence seldom goes by withou t loss
of blood. The good name often su ffers through slander. By striving with a ll
our force Of will aga inst impulsiveness in action and speech, we may pass
through this time,withou t an too d isagreeable experiences. It may bring diffi
cu lties with the other sex. e shou ld therefore be careful duung th1s direction.

D d A 96 M A very good aspect that brings promotion, success and
prosperity in everything. It is one Of the most favourable directions under
which to begin new enterprises. The health is good the body expands as

it were, under the Jupiter-action. Du ring the Operation of this aspect new
friendships are formed , and good things accrue from all sides. A ll one does
during this time is good as a ru le, it is therefore wise, to make the very
u tmost u se of it. Under this favourable Qt influence even the greatest pessimist
will have to admit that life is not so bad after al l.

D 8 D 4 lg Qt. It is bad time for business, for beginning new enterprises.

The native is arrogant and inclined to spend more than he can afford , so tha t
economy during this time is to be recommended. It may bring into dis
agreeable contact with law or church. The heal th may su ffer because the blood
and the circu lation are in disorder. It is also unfavourable for domestic affairs.

D as A etc. b. This direction brings u s into contact with Older people and
bringshelp and support from them. It is a good time for doing business, and
for the study of a ll that has to do with the earth, and the mineral kingdom.

Under this d irection we are inclined to act and to work with more tact, care
'

and accuracy than usu al. It brings a calm equ ilibrium into the health. It is a

favourable time to endeavour to obtain a position of permanency.



188

D d D 8 etc. b is a very unfortunate direction which brings sorrow,

depression, melancholy, disappointments, adversities, disil lusion, losses and
weakened health. What na ture this wil l take, is indica ted by house and sign.

When the horoscope indicates poor health, this direction will bring il lness in
the form of colds, rheumatism etc.W e should fight with al l our might against
depression. Beware as much as possible of older people and Saturn-types,
for discord with them is most probable.

D -x A etc. m . Sudden changes of a favourable nature are indica ted , often
also a journey. The spirit is clear , original , and eccentric. The native feels
more strongly a ttracted to the other sex during this time. Those that have
la tent psychic talents will, du ring this aspect , be able to gain wonderful expe
riences on higher planes ; for 111 is the planet of clairvoyance. They will pro
bably have visions. The most conservative man is inclined under this aspec t
to think and speak more liberal . It is a good time for studying occul t sciences,
to which one wil l then feel strongly a ttracted .

D d D 8 etc. 111 A very critical period , for the health as well as for the
calling, honour and good name. It is a time of nervous strain, the spiri t is
critical , and to a high degree changeable. Adversities and accidents befall us
as sudden as a lightning flash during this time. It woul d be best to seclude
ourselves during this period as mu ch as possible and to try to force ou rselves to
calmness. All changes undertaken during this time are likely to be regretted
la ter on, so beware of impu lsive action l Changes in a progressive d irection
may be desirable and u sefu l under this aspect.

D d A etc t
. y. The d is favourable or unfavourable according to the

position of t? in the rad ix. It is a time in which the spirit is sensitive to
psychic impressions, whi ch may express themselves as predictive dreams,
strange impressions from another world , impressions tha t have a most peculiar
charm . For the highly evolved and psychically inclined it is a very favourable
aspect, also for the artist. It brings inspiration. Strange acqua intances may
be expected .

D ’
o D 8 etc. t? may bring u s into disagreeable contact with swindlers

and clever deceivers. It brings u s into contact with strange types and we
shou ld be especially on our gu ard during this time. This aspect may as well
bring psychic experiences, not usu ally, however, of a very agreeable na tu re.

D ’
o Asc. brings changes, and often d istu rbances in the health, of a cold ,

wa tery na ture.

D ’
o M. C. brings changes affecting the calling, the honour and repu tation,

accord ing to the na tu re of the ru ling Q) aspects (progr.) and according to
whether the D in the radix aspec ts the M. C . or not.

D A -x 1 . A50 . and M. C. brings favourable changes popu larity, , good
standing in connection wi th public institu tions and societi es ; and help and
support Of women in affairs rela ting to the A50 . and the M. C.

D D 8 etc. Asc. and M. C. The reverse. A bad time for changes and jour
neys. Adversities and deceptions in affairs relating to the A5 0 . and the M. C.






Directions of Ven 1
us. )

2 A 96 etc. 6 . This aspect brings grea t love for pleasure and society and
strong a ttraction to the other sex. It arouses the passions and is therefore not
a very good aspect. Upon the whole it means an agreeable, harmonious time.

’
9 o 8 D etc. 6 . Brings troubles and quarrels with the other sex. A very

bad aspect for domestic peace, especially if the aspect falls in 7 or 4. It arouses
the passions and it depends qu ite on the moral strength of the native, how
this aspec t will express itself.

9 d A 16 etc . Qt . A very good aspect that brings su ccess and friendship
espec ially of women. For artists a time not to be forgotten. l t arousesfeelings
of sympathy and love and makes us generous and devoted .

S2 8 D etc. Qt is an aspect tha t causes separations and tha t is disadvant
ageous to all legal affa irs. It may further bring us into troublewith the church,

and this aspect usually causes domestic discord.

52 A etc. b is a favourable aspec t for moral growth, because it brings
our feelings and emotions in equ ilibrium and makes them more constant. It
brings u s lasting friendship, honour, credi t and isvery favourable for the health.

It is a quiet, agreeable time.

8 D etc. 17 brings many disillusions, cares, separations as well as finan
cial osses and a ttacks from secret enemies, who wou ld hu rt our good repu
tation. It is a time in which we need to carefu lly weigh each word we u tter.

9 A etc. ItI will bring unexpected advantages, both financial and in our
position. It brings us new acquaintances and friends tha t will be Of service to
us and make us acquainted with occu lt sciences, especially Astrology. It is
an excellent time for the studv of this subject.

9 D 8 etc. H will bring separations and estrangements. The feelings and
emotions are very strong under this direction and we incline to foolish actions
under their influence. For women especially it is a very critical time, inwhich
they need to look before they leap , a time when all sudden changes are

to be depreca ted.

9 d 15 . The conjunction is not so unfavourable as the 8 and D , it inclines
to the sudden formation of ties of friendship and the natu re Of thesewill depend
on the position and the aspects of E . It gives idealism and power of imaginar
tion and arouses the feelings.

d t? i.e. the union Of the higher, universal , and the lower love. May lead
to p atonic ties of love and wil l in any case contribu te to ennoble and refine
the love and the emotions.

9 A etc. up. May have the same effec t and in any case means a very
harmonious, happy time in which high, idealistic feelings play a great part.
Especial ly is this a time tha t artists will remember.

1) See note p. 181 , 182.



191

9. D 8 etc . it? signifies as it were a fight between the lower self and the
universal love of mankind ; to him who is still engrossed with the former, it
wil l be a time of great care in which he must be constantly on his guard
against the people he comes into contact with. The higher evolved man may
take a great step onward under this aspect .

Of the remaining planets the directions of Ma rs by progression are

particu larly to be considered. It will not be necessary, after the foregoing,
to go into deta i l here , because we can study the action of these pro
gressions of Mars by tracing the aspects of this planet in conformity
with their action. (See p . 130

The aspects formed by progression between the slow planets Qt , b,
H and ty, take so many years for their formation and separation, tha t
the action does not express itself as d istinctly as with the speedier
planets. It will , moreover, be easy for each to make these combinations
for himself.

Of a ll directions, revolutions etc. that we have treated in the prece~
ding chapters, the progressive aspects Of the G) and D (the Q and D
d irections with the planets) are to us the most important . The

Ddirections especially in the first hal f of life ; those of the (D in the
second. We have a lso seen that with woman and further with sensitive
natures the Moon-directions are always a great factor.

We had better, for the present keep to the progressive aspects of

(D, D and planets only and leave a ll other d irections out of considera
tion, except the transits of is, Qt, and d . For the mu tual directions
of the progr . planets the same holds good as for those with the radix
position. Their action is more pronounced according as the native is
more progressive .

The Sun-directions are often brought to action by a su itab le Moon
direction and the Moon-directions usual ly by a Lunation, or by a con

formable Moon-aspect by transit. The latter is indicated through the
da -

y horoscope, which is dea lt with on p . 160 .

Example to il lustrate the Planetary Influences.

The following, taken from Sepharia l and abbreviated, shows distinctly,
how in everything the Cosmic law is working . They are a few examples.

from the great
‘ ’
Titanic - drama , which fil led a ll the world with awe in

the year 1912. This is not the place to give an explanation why this
d isaster shou ld occur , and cost the l ives of hundreds of people. Those



who reflect on this and who know what l ife and evolutionmean, real ising
that l ife in real ity cannot be destroyed, wi ll be able to find the solu tion
himself.

The Titanic was launched on May 3 l st 191 1 at Belfast at p .m .

“
G . M. T., a moment when, as Sepharial has it, the whole amphi
theatre of the heavens was witness to the indications of the impending
danger.

Th “
e Tit “

anic launched First voyage Ti tanic to Sou thampton
May Sl st 191 1 . Apr. 2ud 1912.

Depart “
ure T ”

itanic for America B irth-Horosco e W. T. Stead
April loth 1912. Ju ly 5th 849, 7. a.m.






Here also we find at birth the G) 8 D and both afflicted by a. The time
’

of birth was about 5 a .m 1
. ? is again in the 8th house and b andmin Q .

62 days (years) after the birth, m had reached the M. C. ofthe horo
scope, and on the day of the disaster 8 went by transit across that
point ; while on Apri l ‘

17th a Suneclipse fel l
‘ °

in V 27 close to the M. C.

’ ’

of Smith s and Stead’s horoscopes. The D was in Sm1th s horoscope in
°
4 £1 and on the day of the disaster m by transit was exactly in oppo
siti °

ou to it, viz . in 4
Moreover at the moment when the Titanic left Belfast, the 5th degree

°
of 93 was rising and d was in exactly ’

the sam ‘

e place, in 4 56 933.

This is briefly what Sepharial has written of it. Other particu
lars, with horoscopes of other passengers will be found in various astro
logical periodicals. The foregoing will be su fficient to show the relation
that exists between the aspects in the Cosmos and the occurrences in
the sub-lunary world .

Countries and Towns coming under the Different S igns of the Zodiac.
'

Not only man as a separate being comes under the i nfluence of
signs and planets, but also nations, countr ies and towns. The occul
tist knows that there is a Karma not only for the individual man,

but also for a nation, a tri be and a country . All the l ittle things
separate entities are part of the greater (the Great). The influences
in the Great must react on the less. Thus England, for instance ,
is ru led by Aries, consequently we may be sure that dur ing the pass
age of Saturn through that sign England wou ld have to struggle through
hard times. Saturn passed through Aries 1289—90 , 1320 , 1349, 1379—80,
1408 , 1437 , 1466, 1496, 1555, 1584 , 1643, 1702 , 1761 , 1790 , 1820 , 1849, 1879.

Consu lting history we find these periods coincide with outbreaks of
war, rebellion, religious persecution, trade depression or other tribu lation
in which we can distinctly see the resu lt of cosmic influences.

That the Satum -action Operates so strongly every 29 or 30 years ; and
sometimes is scarcely felt, may be expla ined for the greater part by the
simu ltaneous, neu tra lising, favourable Jupiter influences.

Here fol lows a l ist of countries and towns, the different signs under
which they come and which rul e them .

Countries. England, Denmark, Poland-Minor, Burgundy, Syria , parts
of Pa lestine .

Towns. B irmingham , Leicester, Florence , Naples, Verona , Padua ,

Marseilles, Capua , Brunswick , Crakow, Utrecht, Zaragossa .



195

Countries. Ireland, Persia , Poland , Asia-Minor, the Greek Archipelago,

Cypress, White-Russia .

Towns. Dublin, Leipsic, Parma , Pa lermo, Rhodes, St. Lou is, Mantua .

Under I I .

Countries. U. S . of America , Belgium, Braband , Lombardy, Lower
Egypt , Sardinia , West-England, Armenia , Tripol i , Flanders, Wa les, parts
of Pa lestine .

Towns. London Plymouth, Melbourne Bruges, Cor
dova , Metz , Nuremberg, Versa il l es, Louva in, San-Francisco.

Under 95 .

Countries. Holland , Scotland, Sea land, N. W . Africa , Mauritius.

Towns. Amsterdam, Tunis, Algiers, York , Venice , Bern, Liibeck,
Magdeburg, Mi lan, New-York , Manchester, Stockholm , Constantinople ,
Genoa .

Under 53.

Countries. France , Italy, Bohemia , Cal ifornia , S icily, Chaldea up to
Bassorah, the N. of Roumenia , the Alps, the region of Tyrus and S idon.

Towns. Rome, Bristol , Portsmouth, Philadelphia , Prague , Ravenna ,
Damask , Chicago (l st Bombay (2md

Countries. Turkey, Switzerland, W est~India , Assyria , Mesopotamia
(from Tigris up to Euphrates), Creta , S ilesia , Babylon, Morea , Thessal ia ,

Kurdestan, parts Of Greece , Virginia , the Brasils.

Towns. Jerusalem , Corinth, Paris Lyons, Tou louse, Cheltenham,

Heidelberg, Norwich, Boston, Strasburg, Brindisi .

Under -_f‘

Countries. Austr ia , Indo-China , Thibet, Caspic Sea and environs,
Upper-Egypt, Savoye , North-China , B irma , A rgentinia .

Towns. Antwerp Charleston, Frankfurt on the M. , Freiburg,
Vienna , Lisbon, Johannesburg Copenhagen

Under "1 .

Countr ies. Algeria , Prussia , Bavaria , Cappadocia , Judea , Jutland ,

Marocco, Norway, N -
. Syria , the Transvaa l , Catalonia , Q ueensland .

Towns. Frankfurt on the O -
. , Dover, Liverpool , Messina N. Dr

l ’

eans, Washington D . C Baltimore , Hul l , Milwaukee St. John s,
New-Foundland Halifax , Newcastle , Cincinati .



Countries. Ar abia , Austral ia , Cape Finistere, Dalmatia , Hungary ,
Moravia , S lavonia , Spain, Tuscany, Provence , Madagascar.

Towns. Avignon, Cologne, Stuttgart , Nottingham , Sheffield , Toledo,

Bradford.

Countries. British India , Afghanistan, Thracia , Macedonia , Morea ,

Illyria , Albany, Bosnia , Bu lgary, Greece, Hessen, S . W. Saxony, Meck
lenburg, Mexico.

Towns. Oxford, Port-Said, Brandeburg, Constanz, Brussels.

Countries. Arabia , Red-Russia , Sweden. Westphal ia , Wal lachia , Abys
sinia .

Towns. Los Angelos (Ca lifornia), Bremen, Salzburg, Hamburg, Salis
bury, Brighton, Ingolstadt.

Under DC.

Countries. Portugal , Calabria , Gal icia , Normandy, Nubia , the Sahara .

Towns. A lexandr ia , Worms, Sevilla , Ratisbon, Grimsby, Southport ,
Lancaste ’

r, Kings s Lynn, Preston, Cowes, Bournemouth.

Though the type of the body and the foundation of the character of
d i fferent nations that come under the same sign, is the same, d i fference
enough may, of course , be noticed, caused not only by race and natio
nal ity, but also by many kinds of b -

y circumstances, such as mode of
l iving, hab its, struggle for existence etc.

This is clear ly seen e .g. i f we take the Londoner and the American,

both I I types. The race may be qu ite the same here, both speak one

language , both are business people, both have a tal l sl im body (the
American is somewhat heavier bu ilt), dark ha ir, the typica l Gemini nose
and the Gemini hustle and audacity. But for the rest what a difference
between the pol ite, courteous well-mannered Londoner, who even says
“t “
hank ”

you when he Offers you something and who is a lway sorry”s ,

even if he has not put a straw in your way, and the usua lly man
’

nerless American who calmly goes on gum
-chewing , even if he is at

an audience. Next, what a di fference of Opinion about their views on
‘m ‘
ine’ and thine’ "This was once typifi ed by a Dutch lady living in
America ; she expressed it thus. ,,The standpoint of the Yankee is : mine
is mine and yours is also mine.
The Mercury influence in this country is strongly blended with an

unfavourable Saturn and Mars influence, through which this type may
become decidedly dangerous.

These influences however, operate favourably in other respects viz .

Mars gives energy and spirit of enterprise and Saturn gives the Yankee






London, Messina , Melbourne). To know this is of great help in making
predictions relating to the places.

Every place and region has its horoscope , it is extraordinarily
difficult to find it out.

The Zodiac of the Head.

We have never been able to discover any sound reason why the
‘

Zodia c of the Head should be commenced wit ’
h Y in the place where in

fig. I the sign 11 is and that the first 30° then are ca l led the ind ividua l i ty
In our opinion we are nearer the truth when we strictly observe

wha t occult philosophy teaches us, viz . that the seat of the ind ividua lity
(the Ego) is found in the forehead, above the bridge of the nose. Ifwe
viz . place this point just within the Aries sign and begin this signwith
the upper edge of the forehead, we get a division agreeing completely,
not only with the qual ities of the signs, but a lso with the d ivision of
the skull as phrenology gives it.

The sign Aries rep “
resents the head in the Zodiac of the Gr eat Man

and for this reason a lone we must conclude that this sign (in the Zodiac
of the head) must represent that part in whi ch the intellect is seated
viz . the frontal lobe of the cerebrum .

In fig. I the front (forehead the parieta l (side), the tempora l (the
temples) and the occip ita l (occiput), lobes of the cerebrum are indicated
by the letters A, B , C , and D. The part under it , shaded, represents the
cerebellum. Now , i f we trace the division, beginning at the sign
Libra (A ) we see, that in

Libra fal ls the part of the neck that conta ins the prolonged spinal
marrow (the medul la oblongata) which together with the entire system
of spinal marrow and spina l marrow nerves have their origin here and
may be regarded as the organ by which man is enabled to stand erect
and reta in his equ ilibrium . Moreover the lower part of the cerebellum
that is in phrenology indicated by the sense of love fal ls 1n this sign.

Scorp io conta ins the cerebellum , the seat of passions and desires,
in astrology the sign of generation. In phrenology this part 1S 1ndi cated
as the centre of generation, the seat of domesticity and of sensua l
love (2 6 )
This part extends to behind the ear and a prominence behind the ear

always denotes a strong Mars~nature (impu lsiveness, passion, vitality).
Sagitta rius represents in the phrenologica l map the place where the

sense of freedom, combativeness and friendship are found, these agreeing
to the qua l ifies of The prominence of combativeness continues from
the prominence behind the ear (tr ) (see fig. II , Here we have a com
bination of Qt and d .



’

Fig. 1 . The Zodiap of the Head
1) W elwil lendheid Benevolence ; Ri enwaarde en Zelfzucht Self-assertion

and Egoism ; Vriendscha en Strijdlust riendship and Comba tiveness ; Huiselijk
heid en Sensualiteit omesticity and Sensua lity ; Evenwicht Equ ilibrium.

Fig. II . Fig. III .
2) Verstands roep Intel lectua l group ; Moreele roe

g p Mora l
’

d . Eerzucht cup of Ambition ; Zelfzuchtig Sel ish ; Groep v. h. fainil ieleven
Group of Domestic life ; Edel Nob le.



Capri corn comes in the place where prudence , selfishness, the striving
to attain a high position and a strong self-assertiveness is centred a com
bination of Z and the reflex of the sigma , that exerts its influence more
strongly here than in the Opposite sig “

n So a combination of b and

G) . The part that represents prudence (17) extends to Aquarius.

Aquarius is the first sign of the mora l group which div ides into the
noble and the selfish sides (fig. the former ru led by Qt and G) , the
latter by d Aquarius here ru les pru dence, constancy, carefu lness,
spiritual ity (idea lism) and partly reverence (b and Qt).
In P isces come the qual ities reverence , hopefulness, spiritual ity,

benevolence , a ll Jupiter qual ities, blended with Sun influence (21, and (D
Aries ru les the intellectual centres in the forehead (see fig. l and III).
Taurus, the lower part of the sku l l , that is indicated by 9 8 (fig. I)

and with (fig. II) , centre of the senses ofshape colour, measure,
indicating the talent of Taurus for art. Further the bridge of the nose ,
that part which with the Tauru s-type is a lways so characteristic, viz .
the short , stra ight nose, very deeply planted. This characteristic appears
exceedingly strong withTaurus-dwarfs and deformed people . The react ion
of Taurus is seen in the opposite sign m , which according to this plan
governs the neck .

Gemini conta ins the nose with upper l ip and the upper part of the
mouth, the breathing (air) and voca l organs.

The long, thin, bent shape of the nose is one of the characteristics
of Gemini , as also his seldom resting organ of speech.

Cancer represents the mouth (lower part) i.e. the upper hal f of the
chin and the organs of digestion in its early stages (the stomach).
Under Leo comes the lower part of the chin and the front part of

the throat where are the chief arteries that supply and carry off the
blood ; carotis (neck-artery) and jugu lar is (neck

-vein).
Virgo becomes rul er of the region connected with the nu trition viz .

the gu llet and the chewing muscles (up and nutr ition).

The physica l development begins in its two phases, the mascu
line, posi tive one and the feminine , negative one, respectively with the
cerebrum and the cerebellum , which may be represented symboli
cal ly by G) and D. Here is meant of course the moment when the
consciousness in its various forms begins to influence the development
of the parts of the body ; while these by their a ction which at first
is only reflex action on stimul i help aga in to further develop the
centres of consciousness, therefore a mu tua l a id. The beginning of the
real physi cal development is mu ch earlier, viz . at a time when there
cou ld be no question of a proper expression of consciousness.

Thus gradual ly by the influence of the Zodiacal signs in connection
with the working of the consciousness of the individual , the physical
body the reflex of the Ego comes into existence .
The Sun and Moon of the Zodiac of the brains are symbol ised by






202

On this fact is founded the Eye
- diagnostics

1) i.e. the science of
ascerta ining the nature and seat of a disease of di fferent parts of the
body from discolourings and other indications in the Iris. It isnot merely
a knowledge accepted by the laity, but it isnowadays put into regu lar
practice by a great number of medical men.

Ignaz Peczely, a Hungar ian, discovered this method. ,When a boy,

he once caught a large owl . The bird defended himself furiously and
clawed his talons deep into Ignaz

’

hand. In order to free himself of the
clutch, the boy was compelled to break the leg of the owl with his free
hand. The moment he did so, he saw a dark stripe shoot through the
lower part of the owl ’s eye (through the Iris) and at the same side
where he had caused the fracture . He dressed the leg, which a fter some
time recovered and he now noticed that according as the process of
curing advanced, the dark line became surrounded by a narrow light
coloured l ine , as it were wrapping the sick place round with a

protective layer.

This event from his boyhood was recal led to his mind by another
observation bearing upon it, when he had just finished his study as

doctor of medicine. This began his reseach in this l ine, which ended
in giving qu ite a new method of diagnostics. Gradually he got to know
the exact laces in the Iris in which the different parts of the body are
indicated see diagram) by observa tion of his patients.

Q u ite independently of astrology he arrived at the division of the
c i °
rcle of the Iris into 12 equa l

pa
rts, each of 30 (the 12 zodiacal S igns)

and to subdiv ide each p °
art of30 into 3 parts, each of 10 (the decanates).

It is extremely interesting to study his observations in relaiton to
Astrology. He shows that the blue colour of the Iris is the only true
colour for the Indo-European race, how all newly—born children have
blue eyes, how with a bad condition of hea lth the Iris becomes
darker, how the ideal colour is the l ight sk -

y blue and how the brown
and mixed variegations denote a less strong constitu tion, are in
real ity symptoms of degeneration etc.
When he speaks here of symptoms of degeneration, meaning the

brown pigment in the eyes, this refers to a pure race Ofblue-eyed people
and it may be doubted whether he does not go too far here in his con
clusions. There are, indeed, pronounced brown-eyed races, born with
blue eyes though they may be, and by mingling of races, varietiesmust
undoubtedly appear.

Péczely relates that many remedies leave a lasting trace in the

1 ) Cf
“ ”

. the work of Dr. N. Lil jequist, Die Diagnose aus den Augen . How far the
eye

-diagnostics may be used in practice, we donot consider. Nor dowe care what too
impulsive and preju diced opponents say of it. A thorough research into this branch
of medica l science will probab ly make them realise that at least the basis of it is
true and that is what most matters here.

By readin the following pages in connection with what has been said before
in the book, tge why will here also become clear.



203

Iris, and so do the different organic diseases. He says that in the
variegations of the colour of the Iris the condition ofour mind is shown
with absolute accuracy.

“
To the expression the eye is the mirror of the sou l we may there

fore add according to thi “
s doctrine , and of the body” .

Why must all that happens to the body be expressed in the Iris?
For the same reasontha t inman everything which happens in the Cosmos,
is reflected . This becomes clear to us when we consider man as the
Cosmos of the eye (which therefore represents the microcosmos then)

“
and by doing so we may go a step further and say : In the eye the
cosmos of the individua l reflects at the moment when he wasborn plus
the progressive changes that have taken place therein since that
point of time.

There will be no need to point out that the reflexion Of the Cosmos
a lso takes place in every part of the body, but the Iris lends itself best
to Observation. Chiromancy or palmistry is founded on the same principle .

Some people have the gift of deciphering these cosmic hieroglyphs
in a higher degree than others ; what is as clear as daylight to one
is a sealed book to another ; which however does not alter the fact that
the latter often cla ims the right to criticize the fonner and cal l him fanciful .

Let us regard the figure on the next page . The numbers on the right
and left arm and r. and 1. leg denote :









Because by our wrong characteristics and habits we are not in har
mony with the Whole of which we form a part, we exclude ourselves
from it , and as this is an exclusion from the Source of l ife , it wou ld
have to mean physical death to us, expu lsion of our physical body.

Now this does not take place , an organ e.g. becomes i l l and that sick
organ shows in our eye as a seclusion, a separation of the hea lthy part
of the Iris. When recovery follows we see a white line forming round
the separated part thus as it were forming a new union of the two.

The separation was only temporary and the bond between the micro
cosmos and the Cosmos has grown tighter. If we apply this toman and
the Cosmos we can imagine that here not only a materia l but also a

menta l process of recovery took place .
Had the organ perished and so become expelled, this wou ld have

left a lasting defect in the Iris and the characteristic that was the cause
Of the illness wou ld not have been improved, had to wa it therefore
till a following incarnation to be taken in hand. Every illness therefore
is a process of recovery for the sou l.

Astrology and Medicine.
“The man who is ignorant ofthe

science of astrology, deserves the name
of fool rather than that Ofphysician.

As we observed before , astrology may be of incalcu lable use in me
dioine , as regards diagnostics as well as therapeu tics and prognosis.

People begin to see this aga in here and there , especially in the
United States ; but also in England and France there are many medica l
men that combine astrology and medicine and thrive, aswell as their
patients. In Holland a lso the doctors will have to d ismount from their
pedesta l (or is it a mounting rather ?) in order to throw light by this
combination in the numerous obscure cases that are now directed to
the lumber-room ,,nerves, paralysing of the heart and complications.

Moreover astrology wants the medica l men, because they, having
often the opportunity of tracing the progress and the exact time of
births, may throw a l ight on various questions regarding the birth and
the sex , in which Ptolomy has indicated the way to us.

Especia lly as regards teratology , interesting studies may be made .

We know the aspects under which deformities often occur, but espe
cia lly with these teratological products it is decidedly needfu l to know
the exact time of b irth, seeing that the affl ictions of the cusps mean
so much here.

By making notes on the births, the medica l men wou ld know by



207

simple cal cu lation when the native is subjected to special inharmonious
influences and they might work prophylactical ly by prescribing a definite
mode of l iving during the time the influence is working. How much
disease and misery might not be averted in this way"
They wou ld know by studying astrology that e.g. a person cannot

be operated free of danger, on the day when the Moon is in the sign
representing the sick part Of the body. They wou ld choose the right
astrologica l time for their operations and by that enlarge the chances
of recovery, or at any rate hasten the process of recovery, whi le they
expose the patient to the reverse when they choose the most ,unfa
vourable day. Investigate how the evidently inexplicable success ofsome
surgeons for a great part is connected with the fact that they intu iti
vely qu ite unconscious therefore choose the right time for their
operations. And the same holds good for therapeu tics.

The ancients knew these tru ths and knew that on the fa ithfu l obeying
of the ensu ing prescriptions, the su ccess of the attendance depended for
a great part .

For operations choose the time when the Moon is waxing in l ight
and in velocity and when it is in a fixed sign, unless this sign
represents the part of the body that has to be Op erated upon. The Moon
shou ld, i f possible , receive good aspects from Qt and 52.
This sign shou ld be strong i.e . conta in a benefic or receive good

aspects. Qt and $2 in M . C. or the ru ler of the Ascendant there , is fa irly
favourable , provided it is not afflicted by d .

Ptolomy knew the relation existing between the planets and certa in
diseases and the relation between definite planets and definite vegetable
and minera l remedies.

He ar ranged both the different plants and the minera ls under the
conformable planets and Para celsus especial ly studied the plants in their
natura l connection to the planets. He taught that diseasesmay be cured
by sympathy or by antipathy i .e . that on one hand diseases that come
under a specia l planet may be cured by means that come under the
same planet 1) and on the other hand by means that may be arranged
under the Opposite planet.

1 ) According to Pa ra celsus the plant has, just like man and anima l , in it his
organs. In the herbs are a heart, liver, spleen etc. just as in man. This does not
mean, he says, that the heart can be found in the plant as it can by man, bu t that
it is present as a power and a virtue, like to the heart.

In the firmament are seven Organs, just as in man, bu t not as pa lpab le
Organs but as power and virtu e, withou t body, as with man nothing is found to be
bodiless. In the spirit the remedy lies, bu t not in the body.

In the first place Pa ra celsus seeks the conformable shape in the plants —con
formab le to man and Cosmos, and he u sual ly administered the plantwhich in shape
conformed to the sick organ or part of the body, because according to his theorem
both the sick organ and the agreeing plant took their shape from the same principle



Thus the diseases that come under 9 may be cured by remedies
coming under 6 , diseases under Qt by remedies under 17 diseases
under b shou ld be treated by remedies fa ll ing under the 6 etc.

For a closer acqua intance with the long lists Of plants arranged
according to the influence of the planet ’

s I refer to Cu lpepper s Occult

“
He says, first see which planet caused the disease, next which

part of the body is su ffering from the d isease, and whether the disease
i s in the tender parts of the body, in the blood or in the system of
bones, next by which planet the il l part of the body is

‘

You may arrest the disease by herbs opposed to the planet that causes
it ; e .g. diseases Of Sun or Moon by herbs under I; and the reverse ,
d iseases of Mars by herbs that come under 9 and the reverse. By sym
pathy as well may be cured, viz . every planet cures its own diseases
e .g. herbs under (9 and D cure the eyes, those under Qt the l iver, those
u nder 6 the gal l and those under 2 the diseases caused by

Curing a patient by submitting him to coloured light may a lso be
reduced to planetary influence viz. just l ike the 7 notes Of the octave
form the 7 planetary keynotes of the Harmony of the Spheres. The
7 colours of the spectrum are the resu lt of the refraction the white l ight
undergoes by the 7 planets (here the ma teria lly visible planets are not
meant , see p .

The word planet is used here in the astrological sense, so G) andD
are included. Uranus and Neptune are not counted, belonging as they
do to the next octave , under which u ltra-violet shou ld be counted. The
u ltra-red belongs to a preceding octave , so an octave of still slower
vibrations than red has. The colour of d is red, 9 blue, 8yellow , b green,

Qt purple , G) orange and D violet.
Every doctor knows the great influence of the colours on certain

diseases and on the state of the mind in general . If you put a mad man
who su ffers from fits of rage (d ) in a red-coloured room (6 ) you need
not wait long for a fit, but if you put him in a blue-coloured room
with blue (52) coloured glass before the window panes, you will
calm him. Let the melancholy man (15) abide in red (d ) light and you
will make him brighter. So this is a cure “by antipathy An example
of cure “by sympathy” is e .g. the curing of the small-pox under red
l ight. Many diseases of an acu te inflammatory nature such as e.g.

sma ll-pox 1) come under the planet 6 and by applying red l ight here ,
one not only accelerates the process of recovery, but prevents scars

in the Cosmos ; it therefore might be expected that the (hea l thy) princi Ie in the
plant wou ld come to the aid of the sick principle of the part of the bo y.

By learning to read the stars of the firmament, he says, the curer learns to
cure ; not by reading confusedly bu t connectedly, just as each word in itself has a

meanin bu t .a
,sentence is formed only by a series of connected words.

1 ) mallfpox is a d—b disease.






Although not so potent as b, d and 151 , the a ffl ictions of the other
planets ma also manifest in the above-mentioned way e .g. the (Din 6

‘ ’

(in 8 or V strongly a ffl icted by Qt wou ld indi cate a propensity for
apoplexy etc. For further particulars refer to chapter : Health and
Disease p . 139.

In this direction medical men might pay gr eat services to astrology
and last though not least to their patients ; the field l ies fa l low
for a great part and the soil is rich.

Especially where it concerns internal a ffections that are hard to
diagnose , astrology may be of inca lcul ab le use and poor, tortured
humanity wou ld have to play less the miserable part of the rabbit that
is experimented upon l
One will be inclined to say that this is in rea l ity a returning to old

and long-left methods of cure and this tru th will not be denied, but one
shou ld not forget that it is a repetition with better resources i.e. with
an enormous theoretica l knowledge and a well-schooled intellect .
Everything repeats itself, in the scientific department as well as in

nature . Repetition is the founda tion of a ll p rogress, of every evolu tion ;
every repetition is coupled to progress.

The science Of medicine has experienced the strong influence of
material ism and under that influence it was sure to harden and perish,
just like everything must perish under that crystal izing influence ;
however much good material ism brings, for the rest, during the short
time it waves its sceptre , if it influences too long, it kills. It is a

necessary link in the chain Of evolution, no more .
However primitive the ancient medicine of the time of Ptolomy and

long before , may seem in the eyes of the present doctor, it never
theless did wonders, for the simple reason that it had a firm , sound,
constant basis, the Cosmos, those people knew that the micro
cosmos reflects the macrocosmos. On this basis one may safely bui ld
on and the pioneers who will erect this new bu ilding on the old foun
dations we must no doubt seek under the sign Aquarius.

, (131 the Reformer).

In still another way astrology may bring much l ight to the medica l
man. It is namely known that with var ious acute diseases a crisis
comes after a certa in number of days, and repeats itself after a certain
number of other days in many cases. If we study this in connection
with the positions of the Moon and with the position Of the planet under
whose influence the disease arose , we shal l find that these moments
of crisis appear during the time the Moon is in D or 8 to the place it
occupied at the moment the disease began, or a lso at the moment the
p ’

atient was laid up and cal led in the doctor s a id. The being laid up
we may viz . regard already as a critical exacerbation in the process of
i llness and this will usually arise at the moment when the Moon comes
in Z to the position it occupied at the commencement of the disease.



21 1

Likewise the [D position in connection with this place, will cause a

slight exacerba tion.

The crisis denotes a turning in the process of disease : improvement
or getting worse and as the Moon revolves in abou t 28 days, we
may expect a crisis the 8th (D) day and the 14th On the l t
day the Moon comes aga in in D to its original position, but the process
of recovery with acute diseases has usually been entered upon by that
time and this period will be less noticed . Moreover the 5th and the
1 1th day should be considered, when the Moon comes in Z and to
its origina l position.

One must not set to work mechanically here , but shoul d have one
’

s

judgment work and regard the progressive and radix aspects in the
patient’s horoscope in relation to those in the Cosmos during his illness.

After having made some astrological knowledge his own, the medical
man will realise the great use of this method .

In judging the critica l days one shou ld especial ly take into conside
ration the normal duration of the i llness. If this is very short , e.g. 6 or 7
day °

s, one may expect the crisis when the D is at a distance of 45 (A)
from its original place. If it is longer e.g. from 8 to 15 days, the place

°
of 90 (D) has especial ly to be taken into account, and if the normal
duration is longer than a fortnight, one may expect the principal cr isis

° °
on 180 (8) and 270 (Q) from the original place of the Moon, so on the
14th and 2 l st day after the

,beginning of the i llness.

Why do e .g. infectious diseases appear good-natured one year and
malicious in another year ; why e .g. shou ld sma ll-pox or scarlatina
be in some year so viru lent and in other years so much less dangerous
that hardly any notice is taken of them ? This cannot always be recon
ciled with influences of climate e .g. that in one year the temperature
and the moisture of the atmosphere shou ld be working more favourably
or more unfavourably on the development of the virus.

If you care to find the solu tion to this riddle, you will find it in
the constellations of the planets. there only.

Pu t a ll prej udice aside, if possible, and seek honestly in tha t d irection
and unless your resea rch is too superficia l, 1 am absolutely certa in tha t

you are won for Astrology.

Diseases coming under the Planets in the Different S igns.

“Ha il him who followsnot the erring
ways, bu t the order of the light Of
natu re he is the remedy and the
hea ler.

PARA CEisus.

In judging the native ’s more or less receptibility to various diseases
one should, as has been mentioned, trace the 6th house especially ;



the sign on its cusp or the planet possibly placed in thishouse , usually
indicates the weak point. Further shou ld the ascendant and the a fflictions
that Sun and Moon receive also be taken into account. From this we

learn whether there is a propensity for illness and in what direction
we have to look for it. Next, one shou ld consider the planets in their
signs, and one may arrive at more deta iled conclusions The signs in
which the planets are posited therefore , indicate the receptibility to
certain a ffections and we may accept as a general ru le that inharmonious
aspects increase this receptibility .

That the disease of a part of the body not only expresses itself by
the Zodiacal sign which represents this part of the body, but also by
the signs which form an 8 or a D aspect to it, becomes clear to us

when we classi fy the diseases into :
A . Diseases of the physical body .

B . Diseases of the astra l body (the sou l).
C. D iseases of the mental body (the mind).
These three groups of diseases agree respectively to 1 the fixed

signs 8 “
. Q "l , 2 the mu table signs (I I , V. 12

‘
1 3C) and 3 the ca rd ina l

signs ( z) and as we know that the four signs of each group
fonn an 8 or a D aspect to each other, we understand that a disease that
e .g. expresses itself inDC, a mutable sign, so a suffering of the sou l
will show a tendency to express itself also in the correspond ing signs,
in inharmonious aspect to it, the signs I I "V and ,z‘. which a lso represent
the sou l .

The same holds good for all cases 1
. )

If there is a symptom , we may define beforehand where most pro
bably the further symptoms will show themselves.

That a disease real ly shows this tendency of expressing itself by an
8 and D symptom-complex , we will elucidate with a few examples.

1 ) To those who cannot believe in the great influence of the signsofthe Zodiac
and the planets on the hea lth Of body and spiritwe advise, by way of transition, to
make for a short time a study of the characters and temperamentsof their acquaint
ances in connection w ith their horoscopes. They wil l find tha t their temperament
is accurately expressed by the Zodiacal signs tha t play the strongest part in their
horoscopes, so especia lly by those signs that are on Asc. or M. C. and those that

many planets (especia lly G) or D). They wi ll see that a special temperament
belongs to a specia l sign and according to the fol lowing sca le.

A ‘
. Choleric 2) temperament fiery si ’

gns V , Q ,

B . Sangu ine airy 11 ,

C. Melancholic watery "1 , 30
D . Phlegrnatic earthy 3 u

, p, Z .

W e need hard ly mention tha t the pu re type is rarely found, but usual ly transitions
in which one of the fou r characteristics is most conspicuous.

2) One mi ht a lso think of ga ll by choleric, and of b lood by sanguine and
conceived in gat wayy, one cou ld arrange Choleric among the wate signs and
ang in amon the fier
g i g y signs. The genera l conception howeve r is the one men

gone a ove.






“
Sexua l ma turi ty (m) appears togetherwith the beard in the throat
Of D iabetes (A ) the ethiology is fairly obscure , but the cause is

sought in deep emotions, brain-su ffering Here a great thirst occurs
and abnormal appetite , the stomach (Q ) functions in an enormousway,

further disease of the skin (Z) occurs. When the Medu lla oblongata also
su ffe '

rs (m), the cause is often found to be malaria (:z) or syphi l is (m).
If death does not ensue through some complication, it ensues through
com 1

a . ) (Y ).
W e cannot a lways regard the disease as originating in one sign,

for sometimes the neighbouring sign is a lso concerned in the su ffering
‘

and diabetes e .g. , origina lly coming under the diseases of the mi
’

nd (V a

cardina l sign), may also include a su ffering of the physical body (8 a

fixed sign). W e mean here originally— soprimary ; seconda rily the body
will su ffer a ll the same , when the mind or the sou l are su ffering. Here
the symptom-complex becomes more involved, but this will not make
the experienced medical man shr ink back, on the contrary.

Thus the two types of S crophu la patients may be distingu ished, the
one with swollen upper l ip , and pale swollen face (Y ), with indolent ,
phlegmatic mind , with eczema (K) and su ffering of the joints and bones
(Z), and scrofu lous festering tumours (Q ). The other type has a fair ,
transparent, red complexion, l ively spirit and eyes, bronchia l catarrh (LI )
and swollen belly (up).
With Nephritis (Q ) accompanied by retention of the urine , convu l

sions often occur as symptom (v ) and genera l paroxysm of muscle
contraction, sometimes loss of consciousness (v ).
Wi th hea rt’s disease dropsy usual ly begins at the ankles

with nephritis (Q ) at the face (V ), with l iver compla int at the
belly (try) etc. (1 fixed, 2 cardinal , 3 mutab le signs).
Every doctor might increase the number of examples infinitely.

We might go further with this d ivision and bring under group A
the diseases :

1 . of the visible physical body and
2 -

. of the invisible phys. body or etheric double also cal led ether
body or l ife-body.

To digress on this wou ld lead us too far and beyond the scope of

this work .

In genera l the d iseases of b are chronic, prolonged , scleros

ing, cold .

Uranus has abou t the same influence , except that the affections are
more of a nervous nature and often incurab le . This is also the case
with Nep tune. It often causes affections di fficu lt to diagnose .

1) A state of deep torpor.



215

b in Y . Catarrhal a ffections in the head, catching colds, cari es
of the teeth, sometimes dea fness, bra in-anaemia , rheumatic headaches.

b in 8 . Chronic a ffections of the throat, laryngeal phthisis, loss of
voice , diphtheria , gangrenous angina 1

. )
b in I I . Weakened vital ity and bad d igestion, chronic bronchial

catarrh, asthma , tubercu losis of the lungs, trembling of arms and hands.

I) in Q . Weak stomach and hence digestion-disturbances. Anaemia ,

scrOphu la , receptivity to malaria in the tropics, tubercu losis, nausea 2
, )

breast-cancer, chlorosis 3
. )

b in $2. Weak action of the heart , throbbings of the heart , weak back ,
deformed back-bone .
b in m) . Constipation, su ffering of the intestines, cal culous stones in

kidneys and bladder, indolent l iver, consumption of the belly.

I) in Q . Impure blood, sometimes strangury 4) kidney-colic, Bright
’

, s

disease , retention of the urine.
1) in "1 . Su ffering of the nervous system, genita ls, haemorrhoids, gravel ,

cari es of the nasal cartilage (8 8 m).
b in Disease of the hips, ischias, rheumatism of the thighmuscles,

d isease of the hip joint.
1) in Z . Weak knees, head-aches, fevers, affections of the skin,

rheumatism of the joints.

b in x . Rheumatism , anaemia , weak ankles, contraction of the Achil les
tendon, sclerose of the spina l marrow, artery-sclerose .
f; in ac. Very susceptible to catching cold, cold feet.

When a sign occupies a prominent place in the horoscope e .g. in
the ascendant, or (especial ly in judging a disease) on the cusp of the
sixth house, this sign indicates to what diseases the native is most
receptive.
Aries gives a propensity to su ffering of the bra in, headaches, insomnia ,

neura lgia , eye-a ffections, various kinds of eczema at the head , diz
z iness etc.

Taurus. Affections of the throat such as angina , laryngitis, pharyn
gitis, goi tres, croup and diphtheria , apoplexy, affections of the tonsils,
a ffections of the voice , as hoarseness etc .

Gemini. Propensity to bronchia l catarrh, asthma , pneumonia , tuber
culosis of the lungs, nervous disorders, affections of arms and hands.

Cancer causes digestion~disturbances, stomach compla int, flatu lency,
dropsy, cancer, chlorosis etc.

Leo. Affections of the heart such as palpitatio cordis hypertrophy

1 ) Dangerous qu insy.

2) A propensity to vomit.
3) Green-sickness.

4) Pain in passing the u rine.

5) Abnormal beatings of the heart.



of the heart , a ffections of the blood and hence fevers, fa inting fits,
throat affections (8 D

Su ffering of the intestines, such as dysentery , col ic, constip
ation, diarrhoea , cholera , peritonitis, and a ll diseases rising from chronic
su ffering of the entra ils, such as anaemia , etc.

Libra . Kidney complaint in its various forms, such asBright’s d isease ,
diabetes, kidney congestion, nephritis, obstru ction of the urine, rheumati c
a ffection of the loin-muscles (lumbago) etc.
Scorp io. The various forms of bladder and genital su ffering, su ffering

of the pelvis of the kidney, a ffection of u terus and vagina , retention of
urine, syphilis and throat affections 8 8 ) occurring simu ltaneously .

Sagittarius. Su ffering of the hips and the hipjoint, nervous su ffering.

D "I? D DC D
Capricorn. Affections of the skin, various kindsof eczema , prurigo 1

, )
pruritis

2
, ) scabies, urt icaria 3

, ) a lso rheumatism of the joints, fits of
melancholy.

Aquarius. Diseases of the blood, weakness Of the heart, nervous and
menta l affections, poor circu lation, anaemia , poisoning of the blood , weak
and pa infu l ankles.

P isces. Diseases accompanied by watery tumours, dropsy, scrofu la
(principally softening) the feet are the weak point, corns, pa infu l
ca llosity etc. Alcohol ism a lso often occurs under this sign.

Mars gives in genera l diseases of an inflammatory and a feverish
nature with acute exacerbations and remissions.

The Sun causes abou t the same diseases as Mars, but often less
vehement and less sudden.

" i ‘ ’

o n V . S leeplessness, restlessness h
, ead-aches through bra in con

gestion, wounds at the head .

6 in 8 . Affections of the throat, su ffering of the kidneys, swollen
tonsils, diphtheri 4

a , parotitis, ) rheumatism in the muscles of the neck .

6 in I I . Wounds and fractures of the arm, bronchitis, pneumonia ,

su ffering of the nervous system , neuralgic pa ins.

d in Q . Stomach suffering, indigestion, bleeding of the stomach,

dyspesia , vomitting of bile , stomach cough.

6 in Q . Heart-throbbing, su ffering of the kidneys 5
, aneurism , ) an 6

gina , )
rheumatism of the muscles of the back , herpes zoster 7

. )
d in tip. With children often worms, intestine-affection, d iarrhoea ,

gastro-interitis, cholera , peritonitis.

A papu lar skin disease.

An intolerab le itching.

Nettle-rash.

Inflammation of the glands situated on each side of the cheek, mumps.

A di lata tion in an artery.

Q u insy.

A skin affection consisting of vesicles grouped on an inflamed surface.






If G) or D is a ffl icted in 6 , especially by b, one may be sure of l ittle
vita lity, of weak health therefore . If moreover the twelfth house is
a fflicted , this makes the condition worse , so does an a ffliction of the
ascendant.

Embryology and Heredity with respect to Astrology.

“Everything is conta ined in the
’germ.

Every growth is a development.

The moment of impregnation, which we called Epoch, is of extrem
ely g ’

reat importance , because at this moment the father s qual ities
imprinted in the sperm, are going to combine themselves with those of
the mother, conta ined in the feminine ovum. In every cell of the body
the inherent qua lities of the individua l are imprinted , we have tried
to show this when we dealt with the birth-horoscope . They are present
in both germ-cells, viz . in the mascu line sperm that forms the positive (
and in the feminine ovum, that form the negative centre in this
important event. Together they must bu ild a cosmos the microcosmos.

The symbol of Cosmos and man is, as we a lready showed : 69 i.e.

the egg (0 ) in which the mascu line and the feminine principle
are present. It also represents the egg-cell a fter the second dividing
of the cell.
The inheriting of the qua lities of father and mother is not the only

reason why the moment of conception is of such importance to the
astrologer, there is another more important reason. The Ego rein
carnates viz . always in a body that by inherited qual ities of the parents
interprets as a ccurately as possible the qual ities that the Ego has gained
himself in former l ives, and we might safely set more store by these
obtained qual ities of the Ego, than by those inherited from the parents.

They form a harmonic combination.

The body is inherited from the parents and a lso the characteristics
that are connected with a specia l bu ild of the body, as for instance, the
manner of speaking , the gait, the gesticu lations ; further the predis
position to certa in d iseases etc.

Moreover various qual ities of the sou l are inherited , such as passion,

temper, thoughtfu lness, etc.

By comparing the birth-horoscope of the child with that of the
parents, we see pictured before us what qual ities it has inherited from
its parents and what qual ities must be regarded as the special property of
the Ego. The former will of course have been developed for the greater part



2 19

by the incarnating Ego in preceding lives, for it tries to incarnate in a

body su itable to its qua lities. The Ego chooses a definite place for its
birth at the moment when the position of the Zodiaca l S igns and the
aspects of the Planets are in concordance with its characteristics and
its Karma .

So by comparing the horoscopes of parents and child with regard
to heredity , even the staunchest unbeliever in astrological influences
must arrive at the conclusion that man is typified by the position of
the celestial bodies under which he is born. A striking likeness of the
horoscopes accompanies a lways a strong likeness ofstature and character
of ancestors, or parents, and descendants. Where the l ikeness is not to
be found between the horoscopes of parents and child, it is sure to be
found between those ofone of the ancestors and the child and here again
character and physiqu e run para llel with the respective horoscopes 1

. )
If we trace the embryo in its development, commencing with the

egg, we see that it takes its origin, with anima l as well as with man,

in one single cell , which contains a ll the qua lities comprised in the
individual whence it took its origin. A second cell , a lso comprising the
qualities of another individua l , comes in contact with the former and the
impu lse is given to the coming into being of a new vehicle by which
the third individual ity will be able to express itself (Iris Osiris Horus).
Every body, however high or low evolved , took its origin from the

fecundated e -
gg cell which in fact may be called immortal , it divides

itself and d ivides aga in and though the origina l cell perishes, disappears,
each cell arisen from it, bears the stamp of the origina l and this charac

teristic is comprised in the composition of our Cosmos as it was at the
moment the fecundation took place .

This cell conta ins not only the characteristics of the indiv idua l
imprinted in it, but a lso all organs and parts of organs that develop
from it , and it comprises all qual ities necessary to the sustaining of l ife
as well as to the functions needed , to have its kind l ive on"

The one cell represents the whole ind ividua l .

The mu ltiplication need not a lways happen by d ivision, bu tmay take
place by forma tion of buds and in other ways. Two cells may also
combine to one and thus procure existence for a third, a separate one .

A very involved process takes place here , in which the impu lse to
div ision arises from the core of the cel l (nucleus) and a st il l sma l ler
body (centrosome) , present in the cell , a fter which fol lows the division
of the protoplasm and accord ing to the nature of the d ivision
cells with different qual ities come into being and these bear never
theless the original stamp .

In this is included the whole secret of the continu ity of a race , viz . al l

1 “
) Cf. Cosmos and Microcosmos by C. Aq . Libra , Ed itor P.Dz .Veen, Amersfoort

(The Netherlands).



genn-cells whether mascu line or feminine arose as part of the body of
an indiv idua l belonging to a certa in race , and the special stamp every
race has, is not only imprinted on the ind iv idual as a whole , bu t a lso
on every cell , and where fecundation of a nega tive germ-cell takes place
by a positive germ-cell of the same ra ce-na ture, the same race must
necessarily come into being.

Every germ-cell has therefore two chief characteristics at least viz, .

first, the stamp given to it by the ra ce or national ity and secondly the
’

stamp which is the ind ividua l s own, and that is caused by inheritance
from parent to child.

The same germ
- cell goes, as it were , through the entire succession

of ancestors, and the type of germ—cel l alters only to the degree the
individual evolves in some direction. This regards the individual ’s ans

wering to the progression of his horoscope .

The embryon i .e. the human or anima l body in its ear l iest stage ,
springs forth from the coming together of the two mentioned e -

gg cells
(sperm and ovum).
It is beyond our scope to describe the development of the embryo.

Refer to the handbooks on embryology for this matter. We shal l only
mention in short the chief processes that take place and next show
that the growth may be traced according to the signs of the Zodiac
and that the entire process of development of the embryo is a repetition
of the various stages which man has gone through, during the periods
of evolu tion of the Earth.

At the beginning we said a lready that the man-embryowent through
minera l , vegeta ble and anima l evolu tion and that the present minerals,
plants and animals are forms left behind, originating from the vari ous
periods or rounds 1) of evolu tion of the Earth, as they are called in
occu lt science .

With every new period (round) the preceding stages are repeated
in short , a l l evolu tion is founded on repetition and now we see

this repetition distinct before us in the growth of the embryo.

With the mamma ls the growth of the embryo, (excepting little d iffer,
ences occurr ing sometimes at the very beginning ) agrees qu ite with
that of man, so far one has had the opportunity to trace its d iffer"
ent stages, which was natural ly attended by far more difficu lties than
with the anima l .

In the ovary the fecundation takes place and here the division be~
gins. The contents of the e -

gg cel l becomes a fter fecundation the so-ca ll ed
germ bubble which is covered by one layer of cel lu lar tissue and is
thicker in one spot , the germgarden, which consists of more layers of
cells. From that arise and grow round the germ-bubble the three mem

1) Cf. Works on Occu l tism by B lavatsky. A . Besant, Dr. Steiner, Leadbeater,
Max Heindel etc.






opment of the parts of the body proceeds in between, of course . That
is why it becomes more di fficu lt to trace the succession of the signs
at the further rounds of evolution.

We might also trace the separate influence of the planets month
by month taking the planets in the order they occur in the Cosmos.

We see the growth happen in proportion to, and in hannony with, the
qua l ities of the resp . planets.

The l st month comes under Sa turn. Laying of the ma teria l founda tion.

First plan of the different parts.

The 2u d month comes under J up iter . Development of the membranes
and strong expansion of them . Strong growth of the head and the
bra in beginning of development of the limbs.

The 3rd month comes under Ma rs. D ifferentia tion of sex. Develop
ment of the genita ls, formation of fingers and toes.

The 4th month comes under the Sun. The embryo takes the human
shape , the face gets human features. The embryo isnow called foetus.

SO an ind ividua lisa tion (CD), as it were .

The 5th month comes under Venus. Further development of the
genita ls. Growth of the ha ir and the na ils.

The 6th month comes under Mercury. S trong development of the
bra in. First movements of the foetus. It may be born al ive and can

breathe but not ' keep a l ive .

The 7th month comes under the Moon. At the end of this month
the early birth may take place and the chi ld may keep al ive .

The 8th month comes under Sa turn. The first cycle is completed .

Abortive birth may take place in this period. Beginning of the second cycle .

The 9th month comes under J up iter . Norma l birth takes place .

If we trace the development of the eye e.g . , we see that the inwa rd
eye viz . the visua l nerve begins first to form from the bra in. Not until
this excrescence reaches the ectodenn , the ou tward eye begins to be
formed by bending inward. The sam e is the case with the organ of
hearing, v iz . here a lso the inward part of the organ is first formed .We
see here the same progress as with the development of man, that as

we have seen, went from the menta l plane through the astra l , to ga in
the physica l plane in the end. The period of the development of the
inward senses agrees to the time he had his conciousness on the astra l

plane, when he, as occu ltism teaches us, had the inner sight and inner
hearing, i.e. was cla irvoyant and clairaudiant— making use of his astra l
senses. Physical senses he had not yet, these developed not until . his
descent into matter and this period agrees therefore to the formation of
the ou tward senses after the excrescence had touched the ectodenn .

W e might also, if we e.g. compare the development of the heart
with the conditions the man-embryo had to go through from the earliest
periods of animal consciousness up to human consciousness, find back



223

these forms of evolution in the stages of the evolution of the heart .
The most primitive species of animal we know is that of the Protozoa ,

animals consisting of a single cell , and where there is no question of
heart and circu la tion.

This agrees to the period of evolution of the embryo before the plan
of the double-tubed heart was formed.

In the human development it represents the first stage of anima l
consciousness, during the third period (round) of the earth.

With the Articu la te anima ls, e .g. with the Polychetae, a tube-shaped
heart is found (with many species of them) that shows already peris
taltic contraction.

This agrees to the time in evolu tion of the embryo, where the
heart is being formed.

In the human development it represents the second period of the
stage of anima l consciousness of the third period (round) of the earth.

With the Crusta ceans there is a dorsa l bloodvessel or heart but
often no vei

'

ns ; the Arachnoideae have a lready veins. They are therefore
forms of transition.

With the Fishes the heart is developed and divided into a ventricle
and an auricle ; no separation therefore of veinous and arterous
blood, the blood is mixed and is provided with oxygen and purged
of carbonic acid in the gills.

This agrees therefore to the time when, the man-embryo formed the
gil l-flaps, during which time it had a pure gill-breathing, just like
the fish. The heart was then also divided into two halves and curved
itself S-shaped (15th— 18th day), a fter which the separation of the
auricles begins. As transition we may mention here the mudfish (Dipnoi)
which has double breathing, by gills and by lungs.

In the human development it represents, the third stage of animal
consciousness of the third period of the earth.

With the Amphibians there are already one ventricle and two auricles,
so the mingling of arterous and veinous blood is less strong here, by
which the brain is better nourished and consequently the consciousness
increases. We see this separation of the ventricles occur in the same
order with the embryo.

In the human development it represents the fourth stage of animal
consciousness of the third period of the earth.

With the R ep tiles we see a lready an incomplete septum between
the ventr icles, such as we also observe in the development of the
embryo-heart . The gill-flaps are modified into organs (already begun
with the preceding group) and the breathing with both has given place
to lung-respiration ; the lungs develop with the embryo. With one



species of l izard, the crocodile , a complete division of the heart into 2
ventricles and 2 auricles has a lready taken place . Thismust be regarded
as a transition to the next group .

This group and embryona l period, agree to the fifth stage of anima l
consciousness of the third period of the earth.

The B irds and the Mamma ls represent the 6th and 7th stage of
anima l consciousness Of man. The heart is divided into 2 ventricles and
2 auricles, by which pure arteria l blood is supplied, and consequently
the instrument of consciousness can develop better. During the intra
u terine life no partition is yet found between the two auricles (the
Foramen Ovale) a remnant from former heights of development.

Though the preceding does not come directly under Astrology, it will
b e useful , in our Opinions to show the eternal periodicity, the everlasting
repetition in the Cosmos and in its image , the microcosmos 1

. ) We feel
fu lly that a degree of knowledge regarding the occu lt history of evo

lution isnecessary in order to be impressed by the tru th of the comparisons.

It is a lso interesting to trace the relation existing between the di ffe
rent tissues and the organs arising from the three germ-blades, but this
wou ld lead us too far.

The conformity and the going para llel of the development of the
embryo and that of man in the d ifferent stages of earth evolution, may
be drawn much further and deta iled by e.g. comparing nu trition and
development of sex, but that is superfluous here .

1) The famous Tabu la , Sma ragd ina Hermetis, which forms the traditiona l basis
of A lchem te l ls us in rea lity nothing bu t the unity of macrocosmos and microcos
mos. nod est inferius est sicu t id quod est superius, the pro or lions and
ingredients of one are the p roportions and ingredients of the other. e ori in of
a ll life i “

s the Sun, the origin of all form is the Moon Pater eju, s est sol, ater
eju s est luna Nu trix ejus terra est. By fee ling that to be the tru th, one shou ld
inevitab ly come to the conclu sion that Astrology must be true. Indeed , everything

“
originates from

”
a commongsou rce. Omnia ex uno.






226

radiating far beyond the head and further the outer part of the aura of
the body, chiefly the mental aura , come under the signs Pisces,
Aquarius and Capri corn expressing these signs in a higher octave . Th

, e

head itself comes as far as the cerebrum under Aries, while the cere
bellum and the neck come under Taurus.

The Cosmos in Relation to Number, Sound and Colour.

The Cabbal ists set great value upon the numeral significance of the
Zodiaca l signs and of the planets and this becomes clear to us when
we take into consideration the fact that to them the numbers were
symbols with a profound meaning.

As they moreover in the whole Universe and its integrant parts saw
symbols, it is obvious that they sought the relation between the two,

and they found it. Thus all signs and al l planets have received their
cabbal isti c values of number, which I will give here bri efly withou t
going into deta i ls, because it fal ls beyond the SCOpe of this book . The
Cabbal ists founded their predictions chiefly on this.

The most common number cabbala is as follows :
‘ '

V : 12‘

8 : “V z l or lo K
I I ==3 0 r 12
Q = 5

And for the planets in their Chaldean order :

®= 1 0 r 4

Q = 5

D = 2 0 r 7

When we put the 7 planets in the
Cha ldean order at the angles of a
7- pointed star, as annexed, we get,
by beginning at the Sun and following
the l ine, the rulers of the successive
days of the week (see p . 167) by
beginning at d and taking every
other, we get the exact order of the
a tom-weight of the resp . metals.

Atom-weight
d iron 56 . Q gold
Q copper 8 qu icksilver 200.

D silver 108. b lead 216.

21 tin



227

This points out that the arrangement by the ancient astrologers and
alchemists was not a mere arbitrary one, because we cannot but suppose
that to them the atom weights of these meta ls was unknown.

Indeed, the connection existing between the di fferent planets and
their metal s is still more distinctly expressed in our language ; we
spe

“
ak of e.g. the ” “

golden Sun , the silver Moon etc.
We have a lready mentioned the experiments of Reichenbach with

sensitive people and how he has shown that the parts of the heavens
to the sensitive eye display the various colours of the spectrum, agreeing
to the colours of the human aura . (p . 74 , 248) We know that the l ight
of the Sun by any prismatic atom is d ivided up into its 7 integrant parts,
which together form the white l ight, viz. in order, red, orange, yellow,

green, blue , indigo, violet, which are formed by the blending together
of the three card ina l colours red, yellow, blue.
Under the description of the planets we have a lready pointed out

that each planet agrees to a certa in colour and tone , (6) orange, C ;
D green-silber, F ; 8 yellow, E ; 2 blue, A ; 6 red, G ;
Qt violet, indigo, B ; b grey, black, green, D,) and thus we can

imagine that the original white light of the Sun is divided up into its
integrant parts by the complicate prism of the planets, according to
the nature of the refra ction, showing as colours and as chemi cal heat
rays or as rays of l ight and sounds.

The pure , sp iritu a l, white light of the Sun we do not observe as

such ; our eye sees the ma teria l, coloured light of the Sun. The red is
in the spectrum the deep bass vibration of the ether (477 million vibr.
p . whereas the violet is the highest tone of the octave (699 mi llion
vibr. p .

Here the close relationship between colour and sound (7 tones
7 colours) strikes us and we understand Goethe where he says

Die Sonne tent nach alter Weise
In Bruderspharen Wettgesang ,

’

Und ihre vorgeschieb ne Reise
Voll endet Sie mit Donnergang etc.

and another passage

TOnend wird fiir Geistesohren
Schon der neue Tag geboren etc.

That Goethe alludes here to the Harmony of the Spheres is
beyond doubt

The bass note of the harmony of the spheresmust beMars—red
the colour of matter.
Thus the colour of the sign Aries, agreeing to its ru ler Mars

is red (the so-ca l led Mars~red) and l ikewise with each other planet,
each sign has its specia l colour.



‘ ’
V red , 8 blue, I i yellow, Q violet, $2 golden in

, ? orange , blue ,
in red, ,2‘ purple , Z green, m indigo, DC silvery blue .
Some have tried by combining the colour of the signs with those

of the Sun and the Moon, according as the Sun or the Moon are in
the different signs to give a colour-combination for al l these cases,
but such a mingling of colours is sure to be inaccurate because we
have to take into account the moral standpoint of man in order to be
able to judge whether the planet or the sign will have the greatest
influence and the latter or the former influence the colour strongest.

Proportions in the Cosmos, in Nature and Art.
“God geometrises.

“The world is bu il t upon the power
of numbers.

PYTHAGORAS.
When we regard the Cosmos in relation to the occu lt meaning of

the numbers as it has come down to us by old manuscripts and ora lly,
a hint is given by this, how we may seek further to discover the deeper
sence of the Zodiacal signs and planets.

Everywhere in the oldest philosophies number was accepted as the
basis for everything ; but a lso in later philosophical systems as in those
Of Pythagoras and Plato, we find this basis of number.

Pythagoras denoted the Logos of our Cosmos by the number l and
matter by the number 2. The combination of the two, the Cosmos,
he denoted by the number 12 . i .e. a lluding to the Universe ,

that this consists of 3 specia l worlds, connected by the cha in of 4
elementary modifications, fire , a ir, water, earth, which develop in

“

12 concentric spheres. These 12 spheres are, according to Pythagoras,
occupied by the body of the Logos, consisting of l ight.

The so-called d ivine qua ternary of the Pythagoreans is nothing but
the triplicity occurring everywhere which unites to a new unity
the 4 . The 4 is therefore a higher stage of the 1 , the 7 a higher stage
of the 4, and l ikewise the 10 of the 7 , so in fact symbol ising higher
conditions Of consciousness, taken in the abstract ; 1 is positive,
mascu l ine (Osiris), 2 is nega tive, feminine (Isis), and by reaction of 1
on 2 , 3 comes’ into being the neu tra l equ il ibrium (Horus).
The three combined give a new unity, the four, aswe have a lready

mentioned .

By mu ltiplying 3 by 4 we get the number 12 and by adding 3 to 4
the number 7 arises. We see the two numbers 12 and 7— which every
where in a ll occu lt works, play a principa l part, arise from the 3,

and the 3 arises by adding ‘

the 1 , the symbol of the Logos, to the






230

c is to b b is to a , so the square of the greater piece= the smaller
piece X the whole l ine.
We will call the two pieces maj or and minor.

The proportion of the two pieces is expressed in the formu le
9 l 1

2 or in number : minor major 1 (correct to three
0

decimals 1 1
scull-tOp This proportion we find behind every

thing innature, from the smal lest subdivisions
of the organic world to the gigantic
measures of the Cosmos, and where we
find deviations, we see in those deviations

tOp of neck a re larity which strikes us.

(bottom of chin) e begin with the human bod 1
y. ) For

convenience’ sake , we shall indicate the
fixed points that serve us here , by letters.

The annexed line represents the human
body divided into the proportionate parts.

5th vertebra of the With the body bu ilt norma l ly we find the
loin fol lowing proportions.

.

BC -2 AC AC AB .

AE EC z : EC AC.

AG -2 BG BG AB .

sitting-bone joint CF CD = CD DF.

process CF BD . The major of BD isCD and
CF is the major of EF.

EA is also the major of BD, hence
end middlefinger CD AB.

when pendant The two inner l ines represent in the
proportions the major, the left l ine the
minor and the right one the whole l ine .

The nearer the proportions of the body
half an inch under the approach these proportions the more beau
knee-cap tifu l and proportionate the bu ild.

It is not di fficu lt to add to these many
further divisions in major and minor.

In order not to digress we will only
mention the proportions of a few parts of

sole of the foot the body.

For study at eater the works ofProf.Zeising, Dr. Pfeifer,
bri

“
nger, entitle : Der

It is known to me that



231

Of the arm e.g. the lower arm is the major of the upper arm and
the ou tstretched hand is the minor of the lower arm.

Of the fingers the first phalanx is the major of the second, and the
second of the third .

The foot is divided into major and minor by the ball . The foot itself
is the minor of the lower part of the leg etc.
With the mamma ls the whole length from head to tai l is divided

into major and minor by the standard of the frontlegs. In many cases
this is a lso true as regards the distance of shou lder to hi -

p joint. With
the horse and the hound for instance, the distance ofbelly to the ground
is major and the depth of the belly minor. The eyes divide the length
of the head into major and minor.
With birds the standard of the l egs divides the length into major

and minor
Dr. Pfeifer makes very interesting studies regarding the proportions

of the body of insects and sna ils ; with the latter the proportions are

v ery accurate indeed.

Wit ’

h many Orthoptera (stra i ht winged insects) the span s breadth
of the fore-wings is to the lengt of the body as 1 is to In l ike
manner are the lengths of the decreasing segments of which the hind
part of the body consists, also those of head, thorax and the hind part
of the body. With Coleoptera (beetles) this is a lso the case.
The same proportions can be found with the various forms of sna il

shells and with a great number of sea -shells. Several kinds of Conchi
l ies may be easily experimented upon ; they might be measured at the
outside , from groove to groove , or in section, from part ition to partition.

V5 1
It will strike you that, wherever you find the proportion

2
in nature , the respective parts that form this proportion, come into being
a fter each other as regards time . This may be noticed very distinctly
with plants. In the vegetable kingdom this proportion occurs in all parts,
but most distinct in the ramifications of the flower stem and in the
shape of the leaves of the interrupted and uninterrupted-feathered
l eaves and a lso of the fin-shaped, fin-split and double-feathered leav es.

Just measure accurately the leaves of Sp iraea Ulmaria and Sp ira ea
Aruncus, and those of the Umbel liferae such as Anthriscus Sylvestr is,
Angelica Sylvestris, Chaerophyllum Bu lbosum, also Acer Campestris etc.

As to the stem, the proportion of major and minor can be found
precisely with Lamium album and Lamium macu latum, a lso with many
Gramineae , Juncaceae, Alismaceae and of the Cryptogamae especial ly
the Horseta il kind .

With the position of the leaves and the ramifications, the same is
found. Zeising has done a good deal in researching in this direction.

The proportion is often to be found not in two successive knots, but
in two groups of knots or ramifications.



In the minera l kingdom also this proportion exists, for instance with
the axis of severa l crystals and with other proportions of length of
the cristal . (p . Always we see the proportion return.

Even when comparing the d istributing of wa ter and land on our

globe , we fi
’

nd that the earth s surface is to the wate ’

r s surface as 1 is
to The land came into being after the formation of water.

And with man, as we have seen, the Golden Cut is part icu larly
accurately expressed in the hand , the most important tool of man,

which, when it is no longer directed by lower bra in- thinking, but by
higher inspiration, produces works of art that show the sameproportions
as those predominant in the Cosmos.

For what is it we see ?
That in real , inspired u tterings of a rt (inspired artists are very

V5— 1
rare , a las") the proportion exists. The inspired artist felt one with

2
the Cosmos, drew from the cosmic Conscience and gave therefore to
his work unconsciously the proportion of the Cosmos. We shal l see
presently that the same proportion a lso predomina tes in the Cosmos.

When we regard the Greek and the Ancient-Roman templeswe find
by measurement that the breadth is the major of the height. The entrance
of the temple is the minor of the height of the pillars. Further measure
the cornice , the architraphe, the corona , the metopes and triglyphs, and
you will find the same harmonious proportions.

But also the more modern bu i ldings that must be reckoned among
the high works of art , show the proport ion of the Golden Cut, not only
in their large dimensionsbut also in their sl ightest subdivisions. I mention as
example of this architecture the Dome of Cologne, which shows the
proportion 1 usual ly correct to three decimals. I strongly recom
mend the work of Baurat Haase 1) on this subject to the reader.

One shou ld regard the ancient Greek 2) and Roman temples as being
bu i lt a fter the proportions of the human body, as symbols as it were ,
of man, and the old saying

1) J. H
‘

aase Der Dom : u Kbln in seinen Massverhd ltnissen.

2) The Greeks origina lly bu ilt their templeswithou t roofs, in order that the Godhead
to whose g lory the tem had been erected, might w ithou t pains take possession
of his temporary abode p; ey suppposed the Godhead to be present in person during
certain ceremonies, and when the Godhead was expected , the entrance to the holy
of holies remained 0 en and nobody ventu red to throw a g lance in that direction,

during that time. bui l t the abode of the Godhead in the proportions they
imagined the Godhea to be and these proportions they found in the Cosmos, in
man, in na ture arround them. The temple was therefore , as it were, erected
a long the l ines of power which occur in natu re. La ter the to coverin was intro
duced the cupola , the arches, bu t here a lso is kept in mind tfie buman orm , drawn
up in a_ certa in attitu de.






Fm
III ea_ lV d

sum total _ sum total
The proportion of these sums total is = 1 -Z so a di fference

of to the correct proportion.

v at Vi — '

n 9.5ss
VII a VIII 8

sum tota l sum tota l
The proportion of these sums total is 1 -2 so a difference of
to the correct proportion.

If one takes the sum of the distances of the odd numbered planets
8, GB, Qt , in, and compares it to the sum of the distances of the even
numbered planets 2, d , b, one gets again a proportion deviating
only from the correct one.

If we take the sum of only 3 planets of one group , viz . the sum of
69, Qt, H and compare it to the 3 planets of the other group b tit, ,

we get resp . . the numbers and and the proportion of
these numbers is aga in 1 —2 so a difference to the correct
proportion of only
The t imes, taken for one revolution of the planet respectively, one

may compare in this way and find the same resu lt, also e .g. the
diameters of the smallest and of the largest of the Moons of Jupiter,
or the d iameter of Saturn to the seize of its innermost ring and one will
find the proportion 1 etc. This mean proportion in the Cosmos
is also predominant in the four kingdoms of na ture , but that it does
not occur everywhere need not astonish us. Indeed the Cosmos itself
a fter which the integral parts of these four kingdoms are formed shows
us at various times only consider the differences with the Aphelium
and the Perihelium of the planets deviations from this foundation
proportion" But this does not alter the fa ct that the golden cut is the
chief proportion in Cosmos and Microcosmos

“
As above , so below.



Astrology and the Bible.
“The numbers, the signs, the constel

lations, na tu re, they all are con

nected with the secretsofthe christian
religion.

Km sn.

When we bear in mind that many descriptions in the Old as well
as in the New Testament are based on Cosmic~astro~logica l foundation,

it is not di fficu lt to show, that the B ible is not merely a historical
document, it is more than that, it contains in a symbol ic fonn, the story
of the being of the Universe and of the coming into being of our Cos
mos with a ll it conta ins. The B ible was written by men who a ttaining
to the knowledge of their own sou ls, atta ined to that of all sou ls, and
the Life, the Substance of Sou ls. A B ible is a lso a hieroglyph of the
Sou l , and the Zodiac is the first B ible

“
The writers or composers of the various Books have brought their

symbolic representation of them as much as possible in relation to the
facts of history, as these have come down to them . This was not pos
sible everywhere and seeing that the historica l events only serve as a

veil for the Tru th, they a llowed l iberties; and therefore history in the B ible
doesnot coincide here and there with the facts as they rea lly took place.
Our B ible which is so much abused in all directions, by those who

want to prove all possible kinds of material hypotheses by means of
bible-texts ( tha t have a deep cosmic meaning) , is fu l l of astrological
symbol ism .

’

The seven planets and twelve signs of the Zodiac are represented in
the most diverse ways ; this wou ld already fill volumes, and one

might go on analysing the B ible , both the New and O ld Testament 2)
in this l ine .
All original religions are based on astro-logic, every form of religion

is a reflection of that which took place in higher planes and the rituals
were closely connected with the position of the Sun in the signs of
the Zodiac.

Taking the cosmic month to be about 2160 year, a fter the retrogra
dation of the verna l eq '

u inox of abou t 50 a year , the Cosmic year
totals about 26000 years. (see p .

Reckoned a fter the time of the cosmic year the Sun is now in
Aquarius and before the beginning of our era it entered the sign Pisces.

Therefore we find everywhere with the ancient Christians the fish-symbol .

1 ) See : A. Kingsford . The Perfect W ay.

2) Refer to the classica l work of G iovanni Schiap arel l i, director of the B rera
Observatory “ ”

on : Die Astronomie des Al ten Testamentes (German transla tion) . He
regards it from another point of view as the occu l tists, but in that department also,

he finds the re lation between the Bib le and the know ledge of the stars.

Refer a lso to the works of Pryce on the Apoca lypse and on the Gospel Of S. John.



The disciples of Christ were fishers fishers of human sou ls. There is
ever question of fishing, of mu ltiplication of the fishes etc. This symbol
is found a .o. in the Catacombs of Rome on a number of christian graves
that date f ’

rom Nero s time , from the persecutions of the Christians.

The Old Testament is principa lly written a fter the Egyptian astro
,

logy, an inevitable resu lt of the Egyptian exile of the Jews. During
the first Dynasty there were not accepted twelve signs of the Zodiac,
bu t ten. If at that time the number of signs had been taken to be
twelve , Moses wou ld not have engraved 10 but 12 commandments in
the stone tables

The New Testament is principal ly written a fter the Chal dean astro
logy, viz . it came into being centu ries a fter the return of the Jews in
Pa lestina , where the Cha ldean astrology was being studied. Here and
there the earl ier Egyptian influence cannot be denied .

In Chaldea , Babylon, Assyria there was a time when 36, and later
24 Zodiaca l signs were supposed to exist , (it was probably a manner
of dividing into decanates) whereas not until the last centuries before
Christ the acceptance of 12 Zodiaca l signs became universal .

We shal l give a few examples from the great number of places
which have been studied , to show the relation of the B ible to Astrology
and Astronomy, pre-supposing that by this statement which we
regard as the most logica l and comprehensible to our consciousness
we are not asserting that a great part of the facts in the New as well
as in the Old Testament have not real ly occurred. On the contrary the
events taking place on the higher planes are reflected on the physical
plane , so there we see only the reflections, usual ly withou t surmising
their deeper sense .

1) The sign .rx
, the sign of equ ilibrium, was inserted by the Greeks in the 10

signs of the Zodiac, and the signs up and mwere origina lly one, before the
inserting of ._rL . This sign occu rs since the moment that the division in the two
sexes with humanity du ring the Lemu rian period took place. Man (Q ) is now in
between the feminine principle in its two significances, the servin saving prin
ciple m7 on one and the tempting , materia l principle in (the sun e of the dra

gon) on the other side, and it is the task of the former to overcome the latter
rinciple. This fight is symbolised in different ways by the fight with the dragon.

at is why the sign in a lways represents danger, coming from the side of the
materia l senses. The Zodiaca l signs (their symbols) a re nothing bu t this snake (the
tempter, matter) represented in various attitudes thu s rmbolising the road of
evolu tion. W e can say the same of the letter-signs of ae origina l languages,
derived from the Zod iaca l symbols and this can sti l l be traced everywhere in ou r

modern letter-signs.

Thus the Signs up, in are represented by the letters L, M , S, and Z, and by
comb inations of these letters. Most hissing-sounds come under m . In the
ta lismans, amul ets, etc. of the Ancients that occupied themselves with bla ck mag ic,
the letters S. and Z. occu r frequently. These letters usua lly mean something ma li
cions, dark, tha t cannot bear the light .






238

on the physica l plane. Here the relation is shown between the
12 Apostles and the 12 Zodiacal signs, or rather the 12 planets con

formable to them, of which aswe sha l l try to show in the esoteric part
9 have at present manifested on the physical plane.
We have to regard (as we have seen on p . 32, 34) the 12 stages

of evolution of the Logos, the Creator of our solar-system , in the 12
,

Zodiacal signs ; and in the 12 planets, the 12 principal stages of Man in
evolution , symbol ised by the Apostles.

Of the Apostles only nine appear active , the remaining three
are only mentioned .

Christ sa id to the Apostle “
s Thou shalt sit on twelve thrones, judging

the twelve tribes of Israel” .

The Twelve tribes 1) represent the 12 parts of the heavens, (resp .

the 12 houses of the horoscope) of which the planets are ru lers. The
tribes are gathered round the four sides of the Taberna cle, the 4 quadrants
of the horoscope. Here we see the combination of the 4 triplicities
and the 3 crosses of the horoscope (p .

The breastplate with precious stones, worn by the j ewish highpriests,
was an astrological symbol , every stone represented a sign of the
Zod iac and they may be classi fied according to the order along which
up to this time the j ewels are arranged under the different signs.

(Compare Astrology in the Apoca lypse by W . G . Col lingwood).
In the same way the jewels which are Spoken of in the Holy City

of Jerusal em have to be regarded. (Revelation of St. John).
The new J erusa lem which St. John saw , when he was led to the moun

tain by the angel , (the mountain symbol ises a higher condition of conscious
ness, a wider view) had the shape of a cube with 12 gates and at
the gates 12 angels and the names written on the gates were the
names of the 12 tribes of Israel . On the east , the north, the south and
the west were 3 gates (see the division of the horoscope resp . the heavens).
The wal l of the city had 12 foundations, 12 gatesgarnished with 12 precious
stones, representing the 12 Patriarchs (sons of Jacob) etc.

1) Compare the Sons of Jacob with the conformab le signs of the Zodiac and
read wha t is said of the characters of those 12 sons in Genesis 49. The conformit
i “
s very evident e.g. with Aries Gad , a tr00 p shal l overcome him : bu t he shay;
overcome at the last wit “ ’

h Leo J udah is a lion s whel wi th S “
corpio Dan sha ll

j "

udge his people, Dan sha l l be a serpent b the w “
ay ; u go N hta li, he giveth

”

goodly word “
s (B the p lanet of speech) ; quarius Reuben, my rst born and the

beginning of my strength (7; man, m the planet of the higher octave) ; the Fishes,
“S imeon and Levi “O my sou l, come not thou into their secret assemb ly” (12th
house the fishes, a double sign) etc.

In other cases, in order to find the connection, we have to consu lt the old
symboli “

c star-ma s e.g . with Cancer, Issa char an ass, couching down between
two burdens. In e sign Cancer two stars bear the name of resp. north and sou th
assThis subject might be treated more fu l ly, but that wou ld lead us beyond the
Scope of this work.



239

What else can be meant by the “
New Jerusa lem , than the purified

human body, purged of the animal passions and arrived at harmony with
the Cosmos a fter which it is bu ilt in its different parts, physical , astra l
and mental (in the horoscope represented by the houses, signs and planets).
St. John was an experienced occultist and astrologer, this is

shown everywhere a .o. by the stones which garnish the gates and
which agree in order to the precious stones as they had to be worn in
each month, so when the Sun went through an other sign according
to ancient astrologi ca l tradition. The first foundation was jasper. i.e. the
stone for Ari e “

s (St. Peter). Of him Jesus sa id : On this stone I shaIl buil d
”

my church. The 12 stones together represent the church ; but at the
same time the Cosmos and Man.

As the whole moral world rests on the 12 Apostles (the 12 stages
of evolu tion), so does the whole Cosmos rest on the Zodiacal signs,

“ ”
the 12 stages of evolution of the Logos the R in -

g pass
—not.

The Angel showed St. John a new heaven in man himself and a

new earth, the puri fied body, no longer subjected to disease and
misery, a body grown from the old one and that corresponds to the
first Adam which is spoken of in Genesis, the Adam created before
the animals. The second Adam in Genesis represents the unpuri fi ed
b “
ody and this Adam was not created till after all the other work was
finishe ”

d .

St. John saw the “
holy city” in the shape of a cube. Why exactly

a cube ? Because a cube develops from a cross, by folding. The
cross represents the unpuri fied physica l body, which by
folding develops into a cube, the purified body. Themeaning
is evident.
The tabernacle had also the shape of a cube ; it consisted

of three parts, the fore- court, symbolising the physical body,
e temple proper, the astral body, and the holy of holies

which no body was al lowed to enter, representing the Ego. Compare,

the stru cture of the ancient Greek and Roman temples, which al l of
them , in different ways, symbol ise man. As long as man is still deep
in ma tter, his symbol is the cross, and by regeneration so not by
generation the cube develops from it —, the higher man, God

’

s image,
the pure reflexion of the Cosmos.

The 12 gates represent the 12 openings in the human body through
which the forces of the Cosmos enter. The principal street is the
bra in-spinal cord, through which runs the river of life the spinal
marrow. The tree of life rises on it (the 12 pa ir of brain-nerves).
The 24 elders, seated on thrones, are the mediators between the

7 angels of the planets and the 144000. This number 24 takes itsorigin
in the time of the Chaldean astrology, when 24 zodiaca l signs were
supposed to be.



The four animals typify the fixed cross of the Zodiac, the Bu l l
the Lion (Q ), the Eagle (m), the Man

When we conceive the story of the three wise men from the East
symbol ical ly, all that is inexplicable disappears. The three wise men,

magicians, had computed that a certa in constellation. of two planets,
'

fal ling exactly on the meridian of Jerusalem , meant the birth at that
place of the Messiah, the World Teacher, whose advent had been fore
t “
old. And gu ided by this star or constellation, they came to wor
ship Him.

The l ife of Jesus is not only a tragedy which took place about 2000
years ago, when the Sun entered the sign of Pisces, it is not only a

story in the new test ’

ament which can, in one s study, be tested obj ectively
according to history, and be criticised (modernism) n

, or a mere fact that
only “

nee ”
ds belief in order to procure heaven to man (orthodoxy) . This

tragedy lives around us in the stars Macrocosmos and in us, their
image Microcosmos. It is the cosmic tragedy in which the whole
Cosmos always plays its part .
J esus symbol ises the spiritual “

reincarnated man who rises from
matter i.e. evolves.

John the Bap tist, his predecessor, is the symbol of the material man
who has reached the lowest point of involution and of whom is sa id :
“
no one is more profet than he, but the least in the Kingdom ofHeaven
is more than he.

This rs expressed byLena de Beer as follows: The ChristmasofDecember
the 24th signifies the triumph of the mystic Sun, in contradistinction to
that of the physical Sun on the feast of St. John, June 24th, when the
Sun a fter hav ing reached its zenith, arrives at the summer-solstice when
entering the sign of Cancer According to the Secret Doctrine
(II p . 598) John the Baptist, born when the physical Sun was in its

”
Zenith, was only “

a not initia ted ascete . So that he cou ld teach his
pupils no higher wisdom than the mysteri es relating that Sphere of
matter of which water is the symbol . That is why John the Baptist
witnessed of Je “

sus as follows, I baptize you with water, but he
shal l baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fi

”
re.

When on Dec. 25 th, in Christmas night. the Sun in Capricorn passes
the Meridian, the new Light is born. The days begin to lengthen. On
J ’

une 24 th, the date of St. John s birth, the days begin to shorten. So
we understand anothe ’

r side of St. John s relation to Jesuswhen St. John
“

says, He sha ll i ”
ncrease and I sha l l decrease . The natural man, the

old Adam , must decrease , whereas the spiri tual man, Chr ist, increases.

The three wi ’

se men, the thr ee stars forming Orion s belt (the three
magicians) travel rise from the East to the West, to the spot
where the new Son of Light begins its course. They had from the East









243

“ ”
The soldiers put a crown of thorns (Corona) upon his head “

. In the
morning they took Jesus into the common ha l l and put on him a scarlet
rob ”

e . The Sun shows its royal robe at sunrise in purp le glow.

“
The band of soldiers took the robe off from him and led him away

”
in his own ra iment. When the Sun rises higher the purple glow
disappears and the Sun radiates its pure white light.

Simon of Cyrene , the man from the country, is Bootes who bears
the cross, the point where ecl iptic and equator intersect.
Golgotha , the place of the sku ll is the cup ; Mary Magdalene , the

hair-plaiter, is standing near the cross. One will fi ’

nd her as Berenice s
ha ir at the heavenly vau lt.

“
The soldiers, when they had cru cified Jesus, parted his garments in

four parts (for each of the four soldiers his share) and the robe was

withou t a seam , woven in one whole” ; i.e . the pure , unrefracted, white
light of the Sun —

, J ’

oseph s robe was many-coloured, Joseph represents
as Viceroy the refracted l ight, refracted into the 7 colours by the
sphere of the earth.

“When there was darkness over al l the land , the bodies of the
”

sa ints arose from their graves the Stars becoming visible in the
heavens, as soon as the vei l of da -

y light is rent with the eclipse of
’

the Sun, and the stone (i.e. the Sun s radiance) is rolled back from the

grave of the stars.

N iemoj ewski, from whom part of the preceding has been taken,

“
says, Let us learn to look up from the golden bee which a l ights on

the b lu e ca lyx , to the starry bee that hovers a long the blue vau lt of
heaven ; from the fa ithfu l dog on earth to the dog that runs its .course

in the heavens and faithfu l ly indicates the times and their changes ;
from the mighty lion on earth to the l ion in whose sign the div ine Sun
is placed in summer, before it declines to autumn. Let us worship not
the earthly but the heavenly ones ; that it may be brought home to us

how wise and maj estic a ll this is"
Thus the stars, nay the heavens themselves, revea l their secrets to

us. The distance which separates us, is neutral ised by the sense of a

j oint tragedy.

It shou ld be borne in mind with these astrologica l explanations,
that i ’

n consequence of the precession, the Sun s position in the starry
sky is modified in course of time . What the heavens of August show
now , is abou t what 20 centuries ago Ju ly showed . The preceding shou ld
be studied with a common star-map , in connection with the mythologies
as they took their origin in a ll nations of antiqu ity, and as they form
one logica l whole with A stro-logy.

When in the story of Job we substitu te Satan by Saturn and we



imagine that Job ’

s progressive Sun came in conjunction to b in z in
his radix horoscope, thus setting into action an inharmonious aspect of
Mars at the same time , we understand the talk of God to
Satan (b) and God

’

s permission to put Job to the test. The disease Job
suffered from , was smal l—pox, a typica l Mars-Saturn disease. Job

’

s further
trials a lso are experi ences anyone might undergo under suchl ike aspects.

The drama of the cru cifixion of Christ we might conceive as being
symbol ised in the cardina l cross of the Zodiac ;

‘
the sig Y’

n is in the occu lt sciences the sign of
Christ and so here represents Christ on the cross
formed by the Meridian and the Equator. The foot
of the cross rests on a . The crucifixion takes
place on the day of the equ inox , in the sixth hour,
the exact moment the Sun (the Son) sets dies.

Darkness set in, the veil of the temple is rent
in twa in. (The temple the Cosmos, Earth
on this day of equ inox , is divided by the equator

into two equal parts day and night are of the same length). On Chr ist
’

s

right hand and on His left hand a thief washanged, symbol ising the signs
and Z . These are the signs in which the equ inox takes place, so

here either night becomes shorter and day longer in Q3 there is
taken off the night and in Z off the day (the thieves).

The thief E5 rises to heaven with Christ, viz . this sign is rising, the
other (Z) sinks in the grave , under the horizon the netherworld
the kingdom of Satan or Saturn (the sign Z of which I; is the ru ler).
At the moment of the cru cifixion of the Christ, the Sun was in the

Ram, in the neighbourhood of the fixed stars El Nath and Natic, (the
meaning of these names are resp . the wounded man and the killed man) .

Christ, the Son is ev idently symbolised here by the Sun which came
from Pisces (DC) in order to be crucified in Aries.

“
The Crucifixion symbol i lowest”ses the point of the descent of the

Logos in ma tter, the Sun reaches its lowest meridian for the northern
hemisphere on the day and hour of the crucifixion. From that moment
the Sun ascends, in other words the material recedes, the spiritual
becomes predominant. The two criminals, symbol ised by X and 93

represent the lusts and desires of the materia l l ife , which are partly
conquered and therefore sent back to the netherworld whence they
came , and partly transmuted, ennobled, so that they rise up to the
Zenith as higher qual ities. Taken in this sense the crucifixion symbolises
at the same time the evolution of individual man.

When we study the B ible in this way, a new l ight rises for us, at
every passage , on its inner meaning and much that was enigmatical
to us so far , becomes clear . W e must bear in mind that much has
bee ‘

n wrongly translated in the B ible and is therefore obscure .






to blind reason and as the planets themselves know nothing of the
angles their rays form with the Earth, the Earth must have a soul .
The Earth is a l iving being ; one might find in it and on it a ll that
is ana logic to the parts of the animal body.

“
The Earth possesses a formating power, a certa in imagination,

motion, certa in d isease, and its ebb and flow is its process of
respiration. A certain image of the Zodiac and of the remaining firmament

’

is printed by God in the Earth s sou l .
“This is the connection between that which is heavenly and that

which is earthly, the cause of the correspondence betweenHeaven and
Earth, of all actions and movements on Earth.

“
The planets and its aspects have an influence on the inner power

of man. They arouse all , kinds of emotions and passions and through
them , often at the same time , the most frightfu l actions and possibilities.

They influence the conception, the birth and through that the tempera
ment and the character of man, and on this, for the grea ter part, Astro
logy is founded .

Keple “
r says further : Probably ‘

the Sun does not only radiate light
and heat into universal space , but it is also the centre and the seat of
the pure intellect 1) and the source of harmony in the whole Cosmos

a ll planets are sp irited .

In order to become manifested the Logos must limit himself , where
He wished to manifest ; and to that which is perfect, there is only '

one

manifestation possible viz. the perfect manifestation, and in order
to create , the Creator must suppose part of Himself over aga inst Him
self. It is evident that this l imitation took place ; wherever consciousness
appears in different degrees of development (and we see this every
where abou t us) l imitation in some direction must have taken place .

In a physica l way we can represent this l imitation by thinking of
vibra tions. All expression of l ife and consciousness in whatever way, is
a vibration, and however poor this word and this representation may
be, we have no better and are compelled to be content with it .
We know further that everything in nature as wel l as in our l ife ,

is subjected to a certa in rhythm , an increasing and a decreasing. This
is the case both in great things and in sma l l , in the Cosmos and in
the microcosmos, in man, anima l , plant and minera l . This rise and fa ll
was cal led Manvantara (active expiration) and Pra laya (inactive inspi
ra tion) in the ancient Hindu philosophy ; and if we bring this rise and
fa ll into relation with the manifestation of the Logos we must arrive at
the fol lowing conclusion.

What we cal l the descent of the Logos into ma tterwe might imagine
as the slowing up of the vibrations of manifestation of which
the necessary consequence is another expression in the manifestation

1) S
“

ee Cosmos and Microcosmos by C. Aq . Libra .



247

and first a change in what we cal l the cond ition of aggrega tion.

When we go in Opposite direction viz . from the densest cond ition
of matter in which the vibration of the atoms is slowest, to greater and
greater fineness and therefore more rapid vibrations of matter we get,

e .g. beginning with ice, by heating wa ter, next steam or gaswithwhich
the well-known three aggregates of matter are complete .

Prof. Crookes is supposed to be on the track of another exp ression
of matte “

r, the so-calle ”
d rad ia ting ma tter , which tends to be a ccepted

as a fo 1
urth aggregate . )

There are, however, more conditions of aggregation than these ,
though our physical senses are not adapted to observe them . W e ' may,

by further heating the ice from which we started, cl imb up to these
higher conditions of matter ; the third aggregate, steam (Or gas) is obser~
vahle for us under certa in conditions, but overhea ted steam which is of
so much use to us as dynamic produ cer is so no longer. Yet we
know that it exists.

We may go on with our process of heating and get at ether which
we may regard as the 4th aggregate of matter.
Though this ether has not been Observed and shown by anybody

as yet, the material scientists are nevertheless obliged to accept its
existence, in expla ining the phenomena concerning light, electricity etc.

The occult scientists have stated , centuries ago, that not only one

ether exists, but four, differing qu ite from each other . It does not
matter mu ch here whether these 4 ethers may be regarded as identical
with the one well~known ether ; no more does it matter, whether with
our rarefaction of matter we argue in the wrong d irection and in real ity
the ether is the denser and a solid body the thinner I only men
tioned this to show the possibility of the transmu ting of the various
aggregates of matter into each other and so the possibil ity of the
existence of the other worlds and the other bodies of man.

Density and thinness are, for the matter of that, only conceptions
which have by no means an absolu te meaning.

There are still more aggregates of matter than these four , v iz . by
1) Prof. Crookes even believes that he has succeeded inmakin the atomsvisible

by means Of the very strong magnification of his sp intha r iscope. y means Of this
i “
nstrument one can see swarm ”

s of atoms of a sma ll piece of Radium fly in all
d irections ; as soon as one makes them bump against a screen of zinc su lphide they
become visible as shining points. The atoms swarming from the little piece ofRadium
consist of Helium. He compu tes that the very sma l l piece of Radium that scarcely
can be seen, can go on 2000 years to send off Helium atoms in this way, before
it becomes a l together inactive and is transmu ted in another materia l which
resemb les lead .

2) See e . Oliv “ ”
er Lodge The Density of the Ether , in which he says tha t

the density 0 the ether is 10000 million times that of platina , A lso compare his
lecture delivered in the British Association in September 1913, in whi ch he says a.o

that science begins to d iscover a conformity be tween an atom and solar systems.

“Subjected to law and order the planets revolve round the Sun, just like the electrons
revolv ”

e round the core of the atom.



heating further and so making the vibrations of the atoms more and
more rapid, we may imagine that we at length arrive at, first astra l ,
next menta l matter i.e. the matter of the two worlds I spoke about in
the beginning ; worlds which permeate our physical world and in
real ity are one with it. They are separa ted from us only by our bra in
consciousness, that cannot observe higher vibrations than those of the
third aggregate.
We have mentioned before that man possesses corresponding bodies

for these worlds, viz . the astra l and menta l bod ies with corresponding
astral and menta l senses, which we however cannot use under norma l
circumstances, because they are veiled by our material senses. As soon
as we lose our physica l body by death, and we awake in our astra l
body and in the astral world, it is our astral senseswhichmake us observe
this new world, and the same happens later on the menta l plane.
The experiments taken by de Rochas and Durvil le with sensitive

people might count a material proof of the existence of the finer human
bodies. They brought their sensitive people in a magnetic sleep and
during this sleep there formed at a short distance from head and body,

as a radiating ribbon around them two or three radiating emanations,
which ran para llel with and round the body. By sensitive people these
radiading ribbons were distinctly observed, but even to the non-cla ir
voyant man the existence of these emanations which shou ld be
regarded as the exteriorized astral and mental bodies cou ld be shown.

When viz . acidsand biting materialswere brought into the neighbourhood
of the radiating edge , the person, deeply asleep , cried out loud for pa in,

whereas he did not react in the least when they were brought on his
tongu e or palate. The physical body was total ly unresponsive, like dead ,

but the other bodies were wide awake and functioned
If the sleep became deeper, the astral plus the mental body could

qu ite loosen themselves and step out, as was observed, remaining
connected with the physica l body by means of a radiating ribbon. These
observations square completely with the doctrines of occultism .

Occu ltists speak of the enormous powers hidden in nature and the
universa l knowledge of which wou ld be too dangerous to mankind,
powers, which might be abused, and then become disastrous. We
can understand what these powers must be, taking into consideration
that the power increases together with the velocity of atom-vibration.

We know the great power of over-heated steam, but a still greater
force , electri city , is already an expression of a higher aggregate of
matter (of one of the ethers).
The gigantic force , present in the still higher aggregates Of the astral

and mental matter, we cannot even surmise approximately. We begin
to understand vaguely what power reigns in thought (a power of the

1 ) Cf. Dr. J. W. Kilner (London), who has invented a glass containing a coloured
flu id , which on being looked through, enables man to see the human au ra distinctly
with the naked eye.






“
SO we must conceive the well-known expression Man is at the

head of evolution not as a beautiful phrase , but l iterally in its fu llest
sense ; of all creatures that began evolution simu ltaneously, he is
the foremost, he has left the rest behind and so far man has a per
sonal , free will (see p . that he has the power of rema ining in the
front rows, or of coming among the stragglers in a next Manvantara

“
and to degenerate . This free-will " became our self '

conscious possession
when our intellect was su fficiently developed to be responsible
for our actions. This is symbolically cal led in the B ible “

the eating of
”

the tree of good and evil , the tree of knowledge.
“ ”

So man is no highly evolved ape , but the ape is the degenera ted
man from an earl ier period of evolu tion and the different kinds of
monkeys among man we might perhaps regard as transitions"
Thus the animals, plants and minerals are the degenerated man-forms,

left behind , from former periods of evolu tion.

The body of man has therefore developed through the different
anima l forms ; but the Man manifesting through them was, since the
beginning man.

What Darwin has taught in such an ingenious way about the origin
of species, keeps its fu l l worth intact from this standpoint, provided it
be applied to the developing form and not to the individual , to the
consciousness itself.

In this point Darwin and his contemporary certa inly as great_as
he Russel l Wa lla ce differ somewhat in Opinion. Wallace cou ld not
succeed in convincing Darwin that in nature there were still other
powers Operating than chemica l and mechanica l , and that the human
spirit cannot possibly have evolved a long the same road as the body,
that a higher influx must be accepted for that.
Both worked out the theorem of natura l choice of breed, qu ite

independently of each other, and from a different point of view ; yet
Darwin says and in quoting Darwin, in order to support materialistic
theorems, people are usua l ly inclined to forget this that behind a ll
these activities in nature there is something we cannot understand.

Occu ltism also answers the question why these still unconscious and
half-conscious forms stayed behind, but it is beyond our scope to
treat this 1

. )

We now return to our planetary system. According to the Nebu lar
theory Of Kant and Lap lace the planets owe their existence to the Sun
which, revolving in gaseous glowing condition, flung off rings which
condensed into planets, which also in turn move round the Sun. Kant

goes as far as saying “
give me matte

”
r and I bu ild you a Cosmos and

he imitates the coming into existence of a Cosmos, by bringing a viscous

‘
1) Cf. H. P. B lavatsky “The Secre t Doctrine



251

mass of oil in a small water tank in a revolving motion by a little bar .

Revolving rings separate, which contract to globu les moving round the
central drop of oil , just l ike the planets round the Sun . Kant, one of the
greatest thinkers of his age, made here the unpardonable mistake to forget
himself. He forgot the hand and the l ittle bar which made the revolving
motion appear "
It is this that occupies us in Astrology and by which Astrology

becomes the sou l proper of Astronomy, which treats that which is outn

wardly observable .

C. Short esoteric trea tise.

'

That wich is ou twardly observable, also in relation to the planets,
is only a infinitesimal part of the whole . The physical Sun we observe ,
is only the physica l manifestation of the Sun in the infinitely greater
sp iritua l Sun which comprises our whole planetary system . Withou t this
material centre of power of the Sun, no physica l manifestation in our

whole planetary system wou ld be possible . We may regard the physica l
Sun as the heart Of the Creator of our solar-system the Word , the
Logos and the Sunproper (which comprises the whole planetary system
and permeates it) as the higher bodies of the Logos in which every
thing is, moves and breathes 1

. )
The astronomer of to-day does regard the solar system as a

unity of laws, but withou t preceding investigation he ignores that
the personal l ife of man on earth is subjected to the relations of the
planets. He does so, principal ly because he ignores the sou l ofthe planets,
just as before the revival of psychics, the medical men ignored the
human sou l . For him only that which ismeasurable and weighable exists.

Thus we have to regard the v isible planets as well , as physical
centres Of power, which enable the high sp iritua l beings, co-operators
with the Logos, the Devas (Angels), to exercise their influence directly

“
on the physial plane . We say directly because a long another road,
through that which is astral and mental , an indirect influence is exercised
on that which is physical .

The physica l Sun is the cause of all manifestation on the physical
plane , the cause of al l that manifests there. Imagine the terrible calam~

ity which wou ld occur, were the Sun to cease, even for a single mo
ment. In such a case all l ife wou ld become extinct.

1) That
’

Ptolomy s astronomica l system is so hard to understand and is qu ite
pushed aside by later systems, is caused by his ima nin

g g the planetary system one

whole, one spiritua l body, the integra l parts of whioip ermea te each other. That is
why it becomes impossib le to expla in the materia l cosmic phenomena as they are

studied by modern astronomy a long his point of view. His standpoint was more
that of a seer-astronomer.



The Rea l Sun, however, is around us and permea tes us , as the
Source of all spiritual l ife, it is in constant contact with our l ife (that
sprang from its source), which is individual ised , though ever dependent
on and one with the Life Of the Sun~Logos.

Thus the planets are also individua lised manifestations of conscious~
ness of the Sun~Logos, they are high Creatureswhichduring repeated
evolutions have reached a high standpoint, so that they can now
co-operate with the Logos for the evolving of the beings which they
have under their care and are the masters of, taking the expression
“bei ”

ngs in the widest sense .

The question a lways put by eve
“

rybody is why is there so much
evil in the world, why are we so l imited and not created perfect at

”
once ? I shou ld think that it cannot be the purpose of a creation to
ca l l au toma tons into being, which can not but do mechanical ly tha t
which is good, but rather to develop powerfu l , selfconscious beings that
are able to help the evolu tion of a Cosmos, because they have learnt
to realise the destructive influence of evil and know therefore in wha t
direction they must gu ide , in order to arrive at that which is good
i .e. harmonious. Moreover, the descent of evolution in matter, i .e. the slo
wing of the vibration of manifestation, inevitab ly involves l imitation
and this l imitation is, in its turn, the cause of all evil and disharmony.

Why then that descent into matter ? Because through this only,
experiences cou ld be ga ined , characteristics cou ld be cu ltivated, which
cou ld not possibly be developed in the higher planes, and besides, this
l imitation was necessary as we have seen before, tomake manifestation
in form and in various conditions of consciousness possible .

In the B ible is spoken of the Hierarchies, Seraphins, Cherubims,
Thrones, Archangels, which exercise their influence from the heavens
upon man and Earth ; and when we arrange these Hierarchies according
to their influence we become certa in that nothing else ismeant by this,
than the spiritual influences which a ct, in the different par ts of the vau lt
of heaven on our Cosmos i .e. the signs of the Zodiac, and it is not
difficu lt to arrange these Hierarchies a fter their influences, as the B ible
gives them accord ing to th, e Zodiacal signs.

Now . there are mentioned only 9 Hierarchies, while there are 12
Zodiacal signs and this tallies precisely with the occu lt teachings viz.
during three great periods Of evolution or Manvantaras the Earth has
still to go through, another 3 Hierarchies will be forined. It is during
the present Manvantara that the Hierarchy of theMan evolves, ofwhich
Christ is the perfect model . This loth Hierarchy is already far advanced
in its formation and is already manifested.

We have mentioned before, that we may regard the Hierarchies as

the 12 stages of evolution of the Logos, influencing the Cosmos from
the 12 directions of the heavenly space .






'
‘

R a j au Hoo att u kcmr D en k en .

T an n in-9 V1 t o."
-

S a -lt / V G TBO-w fl lfl 73 0200 1 .
j

‘ ’ ’ ‘

V , Avidya z lgnorance ; 8 , Samskdra z Latent Power ; 11 , Vyri cma
Self-consciousness ; QB , Nama - nipa z the sou l now takes on Name and
Form ; 51 , Sadaya tana z development of the six powers of perception ;
up, Sparsa z contact with the externa l world ; -_r1 Vedana z Perception
and sensation ; m , Trishnci Thirst, Desire ; Upddana the resu lt,
fru it of the strivings, assimilation due to desire ; X, Bhava Becom~

ing Gestation ; Jati B irth, Rebirth ; 3c, J a rdmarand Decay
and Death.

cardina l signs. Denken Thinking.

fixed Wil len Wil ling (acting).
movab le Voelen Feeling.



255

The two chie conditions of reincarnation in a physical body are

always Avidya (V ) and Trishna (m) resp . ignorance and desire ; so, as

long as these two qual ities are not overcome and transmu ted intowis
dom and desire to serve others, the wheel of reincarnation will keep
to its turnings; Mars has to be overcome .

Mankind has passed the period of childhood, the lowest point of
being bound by matter is left behind, the period Of spiritua l isation
has begun, in which mankind gradually turns back to the Divine Source
whence it took its origin, along the same road but in Opposite d irection.

It turns back , however, with a rich harvest of experience and knowledge,

crowned by the indiv idual self-consciousness which makes his view
wider and wider according as it progresses in evolution.

Of the three supposed lanets t; we will have to seek the
one for the sign Ar ies beyond the path of Neptune , while those
for the sign Taurus (6 ) and Gemini (0 ) are either still beyond that or
possibly within the orb Of Mercury revolving round the Sun and so they
might correspond to the two planetsVu lcan 1) and Pluto 2)which are spoken
of in occu lt works. The astronomers suppose a planet to be beyond
the path Of Neptune , thus concluding from certain d isturbances in
the path of the just mentioned planet and which cou ld be accounted
for in no other way, but by accepting a planet beyond the orbit
of Neptune .

CONCLUS ION.

In order to somewhat understand the Cosmic powerswhich influence
us constantly in our thinking and acting it is necessary to be conver
sant with the technica l part of Astrology ; one shou ld be able to make
the various ca lcu lations, not only for drawing up the radix-horoscope
but a lso for the progressions. The practising of horoscopy is necessary
therefore .

Our first inclination was {to omit the chapters on the planet-hours,
and a few things on mundane directions, on Sun and Moon-revolutions
and Lunations, because we were afra id one wou ld set too much store
on these matters, and the study of Astrology might degenerate into
“ ”
casting horoscopes instead of being a system that can make us cast
a deep glance into life and evolution, but we thought we had better
i ’

nsert them for completeness sake .

1) Vu lcan or Hephaestos, Son to Jupiter and Juno.

2) Plu to, the God of Hades.
Su tcl iffe in his treatise s eaks of Vu lcan and Adonis and supposes them to be

thezmoons of Mercu ry and enus.



The latter shou ld always be our chief a im, and that is why we
heartily hope that this book will not give rise to the Springing up of
amateur-astrologers who waste their time in casting al l kinds of horo
scopes for their acquaintances withou t any serious purpose. In the
first place it has been written for those who cannot believe in the
influences of higher Powers, withou t seeing the proofs for it. These proofs
can be obta ined along this road by any one who seeks earnestly and
i f once one has settled one’s convict ion through this, Astrology becomes
to him a science of incalcu lable use as regards self-education and cu lti
vation in general . Applied in this way, Astrology becomes a great help
and support through l ife .

As to the technics, confine for the present to the cal cu lationsof the
birth horoscope (p . 92) and those of the zodiaca l progressions of Sun,

Moon and Planets. (p . Moreover the da ily course of the planets
shou ld be traced by their transits (p . 161) over the radix positions of
the planets. The same holds good for the ecl ipses (p . 164) wich fal l on
these radix positions. Sun and Moon-revolutions, day-horoscopes and
mundane directions, including the profections, shou ld be left out ol oon
sideration for the beginner.

The earnest study of Astrology makes us broadminded because it
demonstrates clearly that different people must have a different sphere
and it shows us that Sphere in symbols. Astrology makes us therefore
tolerant with people of a different opinion. The astrologer knows and
understands that di fferent characters must think and seek in different
directionsand so he does not criticize different-minded people sharply or

d isapprovingly, because their conception of tru th differs somewhat from
his. He knows that their conception is the correct one to them, the
exactly fitting one for helping them on in their evolution.

Nobody will come to the conviction of these truths bymere argument,
but by investigation only, by experience and by thinking for himself.
One need not be ashamed of changing one’s creed. One may at
most get from one l imited l itt le c ircle to the other, in the most unfa
vourable case ; but in most cases by far, change of conviction in this
l ine means widening of sphere .






May 1913 ’
. RAPHAEL S

(See the advertisement

MIDNIGHT.

Long.

C f. C alculatiOn of the example horoscope p. 92.

C alculationo f the progressive horoscope p .p . 155—166.



259

EPHEMERIS .

on the next Page.)

NQ G a
N0 Q maQ
QO O a
GO O m
Q0 Q e
QO O s
QC G s
HO0 G e
‘
HFQ Q f
J-
u

o—WO s
b P Q s
? O s
9 Q S
9 Q r
Nu . G e
11 G s
Q s
O a
G
J Ds
OQ r
GD u
Q Wc
'

Q Lunar _Aspec ts.
uh 31 as 9

15 39 A L
16 57 54 96 -36
18 1 9 L U M 8
H) 42 D \z d

For precise ca lcu lation one Shou ld make u se of an ephemer is
for the year in which one was born. (See the advertisement
on the next page).



T A B LES OF HO U S ES .

’
For Glas w, lat. 55

° 53 N. Liverpool 53° 25'N.

’ ’
am 52° 28 N . London 51° 32 N .

’
40° 43 N. Ca lcu tt '

a 22° 33 N.

’
Mad °

ras 13 4 N.

and a l l laces in or near these la ti tudes. A lso, tab les
a l places in or near latitudes 37° and 45° N.

In all , nine d ifferent tab les of Houses.

Price 1 S. 1 (1. (fl .

T A B LES OF HOU S ES .

For Plymou t ’
h 50° N 22 Newcastle-on

T ’
aunton 51° N 1 Tyne

’
London 51° N 32

'
Bucki °

ngham 51 N 59
’

B irmin ham 52° N 28
Notting am 52°

’
N 57 Aberdeen

Liverpool ’
53° N 25 Invemess .

Hu l l ’
53° N 45 Wick

York 53°
’

N 59 Orkney Isles .

Belf ’
ast 54° N 34

and for a l l places in or nea r these la titudes, in
any part of the world .

Price 1 S. 1 d . (fl .

R ’
A PHAEL S EPHEM ER I S .

PUBLISHED ANNUALLY.

proof-page of the Month May 1913 of Raphael ’s
Eph meris 1s ven on the preced ing e of thisbook.
These year ooks are pub lished by . Fou lsham
o., London for the years 1800—1917.

Price eachyearPost free I S . 1 d .or250ents(U.S.) (fl .
“ igof these books will a lso be sent by

P. Dz. Vg N, Amersfoort (The Netherlands), to any
art of theWorld , on receiving the price by Postal-Mone
g y
rder : Seventy- five Cents, Du tch money. fl 0 7s