ASTRO SECRETS 


KRISHNAMURTI 
PADHDHATI 


PART -V 


RETROGRADE 
PLANET 


Edited by: 
K. SUBRAMANIAM 
S/o Jothida Mannan, Jyothish Marthand 
Late. Prof. K.S. KRESHANAMURTI 


HS 


CONTENTS 


1. Lord Ganesh 
2. SteHar Astrology - Uulity of 
ruling planets in liming of events 
3. Simplicity of the stellar syd of prognostication 
4, Borrowing 
5 A lesson from Retrograde planets: Re-gelling a car 
6. Retrograde & Transter 
7. The truth of the Theory of K ? 
8. Exalted Jupiter Offers Accidents 
9. How fhe Ruling Planets work? 
10. Directional Method of Timing of Events 
!1. Significance of Ruling planets in 
K.P. System in petting a Job 
12. Educational aspect of KP. 
1 3. Whenwill! pet a Job? K.P. Answers 
L4. Employment Prospects and Promotions 
1S. How long separalion? 
16. Sub-Lord speaks 
17. Sex And Time of Child Birth 
18. Horary Astrology - Major Event 
19. Horary Astrology 
20. Ruling Planets Reveal (Timing of Miner Events) 
21. Time of Marmage 
2. Satum offers sale of Vehicle 
23. Appainiment - When’? 
24, Courage And confidence or cowardice and cunfusion 
25.RP& K.P 
26. Restoration of Current When? Through ALP. 
27, Is progeny Promised? 
28. Promotion And Retrograde Planets 
29. Relrograde Satum And Setback in service 
30. Retrograde Sal and his Main Dasa 
31. Retrograde Planets Yis-A-yvis Minor Events 
32. Retrogression - An Enigma 
33. Role of Retrograde Jupiter & Horoscopy 
34. "You have failed in Prediction” says a politician 
45. Significance of Retrograde Flanets 
36. When my daughter will are? 
47. Retrograde Sub- Lord of Ascendant and Last Joumey 


STELLAR ASTROLOGY: 
UTILITY OF RULING 
PLANETS IN TIMING OF EVENTS 


Itwas on 14-1-1977(Pongal Day) that the following event 
took place in my house at Coimbatore. On this day, my daughter 
and son-in-law, who are residing in another suburb of the town, 
promised to pay a visit fo my house round about 1 p.m. After 
lunch, all of us were eagerly waiting for them. But af 1 p.m. 
nothing happened. At 2 p.m., | just went out of the house and 
Waited at the stand for the arrival of the particular bus by which 
they normally Used to come. In that bus also, they were not 
found.| was much disappointed. As more time passed on, we 
all became more anxious and even thought that they might have 
cancelled their trip. 


At last, being unable to bear the delay, | thought of solving 
the matter by applying the prniciples of Krishnamurti Padhdhaii. 
The question | put to myself was whether my daughter and 
son-in-law would come home, at all, as promised, and if so, 
when. 


Time 3-33 p.m (IST) 
Place Coimbatore 
Week Day Friday 

Date »14-1-1977 


Ruling planets at the moment: 
Day Lord Venus (Rahu) 
Moon Rasi Lord Venus 
Moon Star Lord Guru (Retrograde) 


KRISHNAMURTI PACHDHATI =) 


Asc. Rasi Lord ‘Venus 
Asc.Star Lord ' Mars 


Sani (A) 
21-30 


RASI CHART 


for the moment 


Sun 0-41 


R = Retrograde 


Kuja 16-44 
Buda (A) | 
14-13 


Moon 21-31 
Hahu 5-46 


Judgement: 


The 11th Lord, Guru is in the star of lord of the 4th house. 
The 4th house lord Sun. is in its own star. So they are related. 
Moreover, they are within the orb of trine aspect. So, the aspect 
iS very powerful. So, the persons must surely come home. 


Considering the ruling planets, Sukra is found to be very 
strong, Mars is in Sukra. Budha is in Sukra star. Both are in 
very close conjunction, even though Budha is retrograde. So, 
they must come before the Ascendant point crosses Mars Star 
(Mrigasira). They will not come immediately, as one ruling planet 
is retrograde and also the Moon is in the star of a retrograde 
planet. They are likely to come when the Ascendant point comes 
to Budha Rasi, Kuja star, Sukra sub, and Rahu sub-sub, as 
Rahu represents Sukra and also as Sukra is in Rahu's' star. 


RETROGRADE PLANT 


This poistion of the Ascendant will arrive at 4-15 p.m. (IST). So, 
| predicted to my house people that they would come at 4-15 
p.m. 


To the great amazement of all, my daughter and son-in-law 
arrived in the house exacily al this time 


The Ruling planets never fail fo indicate the correct time of 
happening of an event. If careful judgement is made after 
weighing the pros and cons of the planetary positions, we can 
never fail in predicting the time of culmination of an immediate 
future event. In Natal Horoscope, we have to consider Major. 
Sub-period and Inter-period and transits of planets to 
successfully predict an event. 


All salutations to that great master mind, the late Prof. 
K_S.Krishnamurti whose teachings have served to dispel the 
darkness which engulfed the world of astrology till recently. 


Good Luck ! 


SIMPLICITY OF THE STELLAR 
SYSTEM OF PROGNOSTICATION 


Krishnamurti Padhdhati is simple It is scientific. It is also 
useful to the consultant. No alternative: no confusion; no 
tendency. Only certainty. Learn it. Apply properly. You will feel 
like a young boy who learns swimming and enable him to cross 
the river 


One opens a restaurant and serves delicious food, well 
cooked, which could be easily digested and fully assimilated. 
There are already a few restaurants who supply polluted food 
One can certify which is good only when one takes at all the 
places and offer one's opinion. Without entering into the new 
good restaurant what ss the meaning of passing any remark on 
the new one? So read all the text-books and then Krishnamurti 
Padhdhati. | am sure that you will join those thousands of 
intelligent and honest students with open mind who have given 
up the traditional method and have now taken to the K.P System. 


The class was going on in Futnani Hall in Calcutta. One 
Mr V¥.8.G brought a book on Astrology and opened the page 
163. It was found that if the lord of the seventh is powertully 
exalied and occupies birth more than one wife must not be 
predicted. He asked for clarification. | replied that the translation 
may or may not be correct as side by side the sloka is not 
given Butthe rule is not applicable even to one full sign born. 
For 11°/, signs. lord of 7 can never be exalted in the Birth Bnava 
if one strictly follows sign by sign, this rule is absurd. | added 
that similar absurdities are in the Traditional Astrology which is 
general and not applicable to one and all. No doubt the author 
should explain these. Or the translator should clarify. Look at 


8 RETROGRADE PLANT 


the condition of the student who could not understand this ruie 
Thus there are many without clarity. Therefore after reading 
these thousands of slokas one gets naturally confused. 
Moreover there are many contradictions and a few absurdities. 
None can deny this fact. The Hindu Traditional Astrology is never 
universally applicable. Hence it is not scientific. Further, it is not 
useful for modern world. 


Another student asked: "How to judge whether one can 
become rich or poor?" 


Answer: (a) Western system. 


Judge the fortune of a male {1} from the strength of the Moon, 
its deposition, the beneficial aspects received by the Moon and 
the applying aspects of the Moon immediately after the birth. 
(2) The owner and the occupant of the second house. (3) 
Favourable aspect between the two luminaries. (4) Jupiter and 
Venus or either Jupiter or Venus in the ascendant or in elevation. 
(5) Beneficial aspect to the second cusp and fortuna. (6) Evil 
planets in 3,6,9, and 12 and benefics in 1,4,7, or 10 promise 
pleasant and prosperous life; whereas evil aspect to the 
meridian and on to the ascendant or its lord portend difficulties 
even to get partmony. 


Slow-moving planets forming favourable mutual aspects by 
progression and the strong luminaries at the birthtime receiving 
beneficial aspects promise smooth progress in one's career 
thoughout life. This fails miserably, even though. Westeners 
follow this method. Are there not people born within an hour 
and twins having the same aspects formed among the slow- 
moving planets and the luminaries"? How is it that one of the 
twins becomes richer and richer and the other becomes poorer 
and poorer? 


Planets very near the second cusp with beneficial aspects 
from other planets are favourable to increase wealth. But planets 
close to meridian receiving good aspects improve one's status, 
rank and luck. A few Hindu authors consider the 8th house as 
hopeless and useless; a few claim it to be auspicious, if 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHATI 


occupied by benefics. Westerners also consider that the strong 
benefics in the 6th house cause gains by legacy, unearned 
income, inheritance and windfall. 


Benefics in movable signs give sudden and substantial gains 
to one's satisfaction in a short period. 


lf they are in fixed signs, the income is also steady; but ¢ 
they are in common signs one cannot hoard up much money. 


Planets in 12 to Sun and 2 to Moon promote one's rank and 
improve one’s bank position. 


lf Jupiter and Moon or Jupiter and Mars form unfavourable 
aspects, one will be overliberal, impruderit and his expenditure 
will outweight income. Thus there are many rules. 


(b) Hindu Traditional Astrology 


One becomes rich or poor depending on the various 
Rajayogas and Avayogas as propounded by the sages and the 
learned scholars of India. (Knshnamurti says that the existence 
of Rajayoga is not a quarantee that one should have sufficient 
money al least to pull on his life without borrowing money, or to 
meet the normal expenses. Normally, according to them, one 
Should not bother about tomorrow. Instances are many where 
incorrect time of birth is noted and the birth charts are erected 
by good Mathematicians and Astronomers. No Rajayoga is 
found in the charts of those who roll in wealth; not in thousands 
but in crores. This is a fact. (Refer to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, 
VoLil, Pages 79 and 80). They are the richest in India). 


2. One can command money if the second house lord is 
exalted. (This general principle has contradiction especially to 
Aries, Gemini-boms, as there is another rule saying that palnets 
in 12 indicate waste, loss and drain on the purse. [his general 
rule is not applicable to one and all. Saturn will be in 11 in 
exaltation to Sagittarius Lagna-borns. Saturn is in that sign for 
nearly two and a half years. Everyday onetweltth of the total 
birth in the world will be in this Lagna and Saturn will be in 11. 
Are all the people so born making money due to the favourable 


10 RETROGRADE PLANT 


sub occupied by Saturn whereas most of the people face 
difficulties they are depressed. disappointed and dejected. 
Already, | have given instances of the suffering persons now 
living and not those born somewhere in the world in some other 
continent in previous centuries). 


3. If lord of 2 occupies a Kendra or a Kona (It is said by 
Hindus that a planet loses strength to go give the result of the 
house it owns if it occupies a house 6 or & or 12, counted from 
its own house If lord of two is ina Kona the 9th, ts tt not 8 to the 
second? Lagna is both a Kona sign and Kendra sign, hence if 
lord of 2 is in one, Is it not that ft is in 12 to his own house? If 
Lord of 2 is in 7 is it not the 6th counted, from the second house? 
so this general rule should again be judged. Saturn will be in 
Virgo, Libra and Scorpio for a period of 7 1/2 years. Hence those 
born in Capricorn should be lucky when Saturn is in Virgo or 
Libra and these born in Aquarius should be rich if they are born 
in Aquarius should be rich if they are born in the 5 years when 
Saturn was in Libra and Scorpio. (Also read for every planet 
what results are given when they occupy the 9th and “Oth 
houses. } 


4. Lord of 2 in Gopuramsa or Simhasana amsa. (How many 
astrologers apply al these amsas when they give the result? | 
have the life readings given by the traditional astrologers who 
claim to be much experienced calling others as new entrants. 
Nowhere these amsas and Astaka varga are used while offering 
the prediction They work out ashtaka varga but they dot not 
make use of it. Already | published one life reading given bya 
traditional astrologer. These simply terrify a new student who 
wants to learn the subject. It creates an impression that this 
science is difficull fo understand and consider these traditional 
astrologer who offer bold predictions, as those who are gifted 
Fact is that they are bold even though they know that chances 
of failure are equal Hence they label the prediction as 
tendency }. 


5. Lords of 2,6 and 11 in Kendra or ina Kona (Lord of 2 had 
been explained. Lord of 6 in 5; what does it mean? the owner 
occupies the 12th house to hs own 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHATI 11 


Lord of 11 in 10; what does it mean? Lord of 11 in 4; is it not 
in 6 to his own? tn these cases which are we to apply? 


6. Benefics in 3 or 6 or 10 or 11 counted from Moon sign 
make one rich. (Moon in Capricorn will have Mercury in 3; Moon 
in Cancer will have Venus in 3; Moon in Leo will have Jupiter in 
6; Moon in. Scorpio will have Jupiter in 3 and so on But it is also 
said by the traditional astrologer): 


“Moodhom Neecha ripugeastama shad wvayasho 


Dustah smeruthe bhavathi shustha etheethiarasvath..” 


meaning that planets are said to be badly placed when they 
are eclipsed, debilitated (that is neecha) or if they are situated 
inthe enemy's camp or when they ocupy the 8th or 6th or 12th 
house (Phala Deepika). Let us see Jataka Talva. Mahadeva 
says, 'Yath bhavesastrikae thrikaeso wa yath bhava thad bhava 
nasaha’™ (When the lord of nay Bhava is in the 6th or 8th ort 2th, 
or the Bhava is occupied by the lord of 6th or 8th or 12th house 
counted from that Bhava, then the Bhava in question is . totally 
destroyed). Thus there are various rules; one rule promises 
fortune and another rule indicates that the same planet in the 
same position will bring misfortune. Which are you to predict? 
If it is a science then nothing should be left for your discretion. 
You have to apply straight and give the results. If is not out of 
place to mention the following; Mr B V.R in one of his books 
says; “Modern astrologers seem to have overlooked an 
exceptionally fertile field of investigation in their indifference to 
study of yogas which form as it were the essence of Indian 
predictive astrology. Most modern writers are silent on the 
Subject of the yogas except perhaps for some odd remarks..." 
My reply is this. Existence of any Rajayoga is not a guarantee 
for a pleasant life with health, wealth, etc. Those combinations 
said to cause a particular Rajayoga in majority of the cases, 
have offered most miserable results | speak about thase which 
| have observed. | have hundreds of horoscope having 
Rajayogas and suffering during their periods To me it appears 
that these Rajayogas are useless mostly misquiding, 
misleading and disappointing the consultants whereas 


12 RETROGRADE PLANT 


temporarily it may do good only to the sooth sayer. That is why, 
most of the learned people keep silence. | had published the 
herescope of late SirC.P. Ramaswamy lyer. How many yogas 
are there? | furnish dozens of horoscopes of those who are 
living in Bombay; Calcutta, Delhi and Madras. They are 
‘crorepathis . No Raj yoga at all. But those who have Rajayoga 
combinations suffer. If | point out, the traditional astrologers 
attack me producing incorrect charls. Rejoinder is not published 
in the same magazine which published the untruth. lt appears 
that they are afraid of publishing the truth which will open the 
eyes of the readers. Others have not commented to the extent 
to which | do. Any truth contradicting the tradition will not be 
published; (1} when rejoinder is not published, how can they 
publish the real fact about Rajayoga; (2) they have not 
propounded a theory by which people will be benefited. So what 
is the use of saying that yogas are useless. Any one can pass 
a remark; but one should say hew to rectify or which rule cone 
has to follow. We should adopt a principle which can be applied 
universally to one and all that it should also hold good in the 
case of twins enjoying opposite results. 


in one word, | delcare that these Rajayogas mislead and 
wrongly give hopes to the consultants but, infact, they fail 
miserably in the majority of the cases. Success is negligible. 
Then is it a rule and is it scientific? 


7. Iffour planets are in swakshetra, (i.e. they occupy their own 
houses} one becomes rich. (This also is general and this too fails. } 


8. Ifthe owner of the Navamsa sign occupied by the lord of 
the 10th house, is in Vaiseshikamsa and if it is aspected by 
benefics, one becomes rich. (Let me ask whether any one has 
used this rule and given life reading to find out whether one can 
become rich or not.) 


9. Benefics in Kendras make one rich God knows how many 
have become rich. 


10. Mercury in Cancer and Saturn in 11 is good to become 
rich. what about Leo borns? Sagittarius borns? 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 13 


11 Sun is 5 in Leo, Jupiter in Aquarius make one rich. Thus 
there are manyrules. When the rules are general how are we 
to know that in this person's case it is applicable and in this 
native's case it is not. What is the amendment for such rules? 
If itis so, why should it not be mentioned in the text-books, then 
and there, so that it will be to the readers. 


How many slokas! How to commit to memory and remember 
while applying! 


Krishnamurti Padhdhati 


Riches: There is no limit for riches. It depends on the 
commitments and the need of a native. suppose {two brothers 
have each a lakh of rupees. One has many children, he has 
sympathy towards his relatives and he calls himself poor as he 
is unable to meet the recurring expenses. H1s brother who had 
the same amount, says he is rich enough as he has married a 
miserably and selfish wife, not even trying to have at least one 
child and he is able to add something more to what he already 
has. So are we to judge from the amount? To me a rich person 
is one who enjoys all the fruits of life in this world and meets out 
expenses then and there without borrowing. 


Assets must be greater than the liabilities. 


Which houses are we to judge? Second house indicates 
the bank position. 


One gets money only when others give either as a share or 
as interest or rent or profit or salary or allowance, ete Which is 
judged from the sixth house. 


One's name, fame and profession are judged from the 10th 
house. That which one makes up as profit or gains, or one 
receives as reward or donation is judged from the 71th house. 


Planets owning a house (Bhava) or occupying a house can 
give the results of these houses during the periods and sub- 
periods of the planets situated in the three constellations 
governed by the ownere or the occupant. 


14 RETROGRADE PLANT 


lf there is no planet in their constellations then the owner 
and the occupant will include in their indications the results of 
this house owned or occupied also, other than what they have 
to offer according to the house situation of the lord of the 
constellation in which the owner or occupant are deposited. 


Occupation of a constellation is stronger than occupation of 
a house. 


In Krishnamurti Padhdhati for natal horoscopes there is no 
place for exaltation, or dibilitation or eclipse, or retrograde etc. 


One may ask “What, Sir, will not retrograde planets and 
eclipsed planets prove to be detrimental?" 


Let me give you a few instances. 


1. One was born at 11-20 PM. on Wednesday, the 8th 
February, 1922 having Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn and Mercury 
retrograde. As his birth star was Arudhra; he was running Rahu 
Dasa, at birth then Jupiter Dasa, followed by Saturn Dasa and 
now running Mercury Dasa All were retrograde. Further Rahu, 
Jupiter and Saturn were in Virgo inthe t2th house to his Libra 
Ascendant. 


2. Another friend has Jupiter eclipsed in rapt conjunction and 
he had studied law, and had enrolled as an advocate and is 
now making good money, from his Jupiter Dasa Jupiter made 
him an advocate. 


3.One gentleman who could not purchase even books during 
his Engineering College course earned a lot of money, 
possesses house by becoming the top personnel of an 
Engineering Concern (contractors) during his Mercury Dasa 
having been born immediately after New Moon on Sunday, 22nd 
October, 1911 at a place near Kanyakumary. His birth star was 
swathi and Rahu Dasa was running at his birth time 


In text-books, each author has mentioned something. One 
says that Mercury does not become evil even when eclipsed: 
the other says that neither Satrun nor Venus loses strength 


KRISHNAMURTIL PADHDHATI 15 


even when eclipsed. There is no single version. But, in reality 
the eclipsed planet, whomsoever tt is, offers those results which 
it indicates. 


4 The retired Cheif Engineer of Madras Slate had his Mercury 
in the same degree and minute, in the same sign, where Sun 
was. He became the Chief Engineer only in the Mercury period. 
As Ihave seen many horoscopes where Sun and another planet 
which was eclipsed has given maximum beneficial result to 
the native, through the matters signified by the eclipsed planet, 
in its period and sub-period how can | accept that eclipsed 
planets cannot be beneficial.) 


Then, the significators of the houses, 2,6, 10 and 11 deposited 
in the sub of the significators of either 2 or 6 or 10 or 11 give 
wealth during the periods of these significators, only when the 
lord of the sub is good; one cannct expect riches even though 
a planet may be the significator of 2,6,10 or 11 ifthe sub lord 
does not co-operate. One can go through the second volume 
of Krishnamurti Padhdhati, Page 74. Rule is simple; one 
universal rule only, which is applicable to one and all, young or 
old, man or woman. 


Recent researches have added this vital one, i.e., one should 
judge the lord of the sub of the second and the tith cusps. 
Unless the lord of the sub is the significator of the houses 27,6, 10 
or 141 one cannot improve his bank position 


(Planets will be in the same degree and minute, in the same 
sub in the case of twins; yet it is the sub-lords of the second 
and eleventh who portray whether these houses contribute 
towards riches or not.) 


Every person has the houses, 2,6, 10 and 11. So every one 
has significators of the houses, 2,6,10 and 11 at least their 
owners. But one should Know that it is the sub-lord of the planets 
who indicate whether the signiticator will offer results favourably 
to the person or not. 


Question 2: Who are to be classified as poor and 
unfortunate? 


16 RETROGRADE PLANT 
Traditional method: 

1, Sun in Aries other than Paramauchcha point. 

2. Sun in Cancer-ambitious but poor. 

3. Sun in Capricorn-Mean action and poor. 

4 Mars in Leo-Cannot save, so poor 

&. Mars in Aquarius-Untold miseries and poor. 

6. Mercury in Mars sign-Swindles other's money and yet 
continues to be poor. 

7. Mercury in Leo-Penniless-(Hopeless general rule). 

8. Mercury in Capricorn or Aquarius-Ever in debts. 

9. Jupiter in Capricorn-Poverlty and unhappiness 

10. Then, lords of 1,4 and 9 deposited in the 8th Bhava. 

11 Lord of 2 in 12 and lord of 12 in 2 

12.Lord of 2 in 12 and lord of 12 in lagna aspected by lord of 7. 


43.Lord of 5 in 6; lord of 9 in 8 aspected by lord of 2 or 7. 
14 Malefics in 2,4 or 5 counted from the sign occupied by 
Jupiter. 


15.Even if benefics are in 10, malefics in 2 spoil the wealth. 
16.Malefics in 3, lord of 12 in 2 and lord of Qin 12-very poor. 


17.Moon, Jupiter and Saturn in Kendra signs, Mars in 5or 8 
or 12 make one very poor 


18.Sunand Moon in Aquarius and other planets in debilitated 
signs make one poor though bom a king or a 'kubera’ 


19.Venus in Capricorn and Mercury, Moon and Mars in 
debilitation will make even a prince lose his property and 
become pocr. 


KRISHNAMURT!| PADHDHATI 17 
20.Moon is ‘Sayana Avastla' causes poor persons. 


21 Mars in Nidhra Avastha'causes distress and poverty. 


Thus there are various rules. 


Krishnamurti Padhdhati 


lf the sub lord of the second and the 11th cups are ruled by 
the significators of 5 and 8; or Sand 12; or 5 and 12; one will 
loose money in the periods of such significators through the 
sources indicated by the houses occupied and owned by the 
Significators. This is the universal rule. 


One gels money during the periods of the significators of 
1,2,3,6,10 and 11 inthe sub of the significators of 2,6,10 and 
11. These are to receive cheques. But the significators of other 
houses are to bring down the bank position; to issue cheques. 


lf a planet be the significator of both 5th and 6th houses, 
then during the sub-periods of others planets who are beneficial 
there will be income during the major period of the planet who 
is the significator of both good and bad houses [he same 
planet in its major period and during the sub period of the evil 
unfavourable planets, bring loss. Hence both the results will be 
given by the planet signifying both the favourable and 
unfavourable houses, depending on the sub-periods. 


It is very important to note the dasa, which are to run. Any 
planet which is to give much money may not have its major 
dasa at all. Ifthe major dasa lords to ruinthe family, how far can 
the sub-period of the beneficial planet help? The results will be 
similar to a fellow who loses money heavily in seven races and 
in two races he gains, something as his horses in these two 
races happened to be dead favourities. So the benefit will be 
there but it will be negligible. 


But ifa person runs good penads, automatically he becomes 
rich inspite if drain during certain sub periods. Suppose the 
sub-lord of the 11th cusp is favourable and its major period 
runs for long number of years. The sub-lord of the 12th is 


18 RETROGRADE PLANT 


unfavourable. Even then, as the sub period of this planet is only 
fora short time, one will not loose much. Ifthe sub-lord of the 
12th is the significator of 5 and 8, and this planet has long 
number of years of Udu Dasa, then during ifs major period one 
will be loosing money just like a TB patient loses weight without 
nourishing focd,etc. 


Good Luck! 


BORROWING 


A friend of mine asked me to tell him what the planets have 
to say in regard to his proposed attempt to borrow some money. 
He gave no 180, the ascendant for which is 18-6-40 Sagitarius- 
Jupiter sign, Venus star, Rahu sub. The calculatious were 
commenced at 8.33 p.m. on 5-2-75 and the horary chart is 
given below. 


Planets Conat.lord Sub-lord 
oun Moon sun 
Moon Mercury Venus 
Mars Venus Mars 
Mercury(R) Mars oatum 
Jupiter Jupiter Venus 
Venus Rahu Kethu 
Saturn(R) Rahu Mars 
Rahu Saturn Rahu 
Kethu Moon Rahu 


The ascendant denotes the querent and the 7th house, all 
those with whom the querent deals, and in this case, the lender. 
The lender may be a banker or an individual. The sixth house 
denote debts. Loan is an income to the borrower and his bank 
position at the moment increases to the extent borrowed. The 
{2th house of the chart will show whether money is borrowed 
for investment or for other expenses. To the person lending the 
money, the sixty house which is 12 to 7, indicates loss or 
deterioration of his bank position. Hence sixth house indicates 
receipt of money by raising loan. 


20 RETROGRADE PLANT 


— —_—_—— -_ 


ai 
Kethu 13-14 Vi 38-6280 


NV 26-14 V 26-14 vi20-14 


Jup.26-56 
Yen.14-31 Ill 19-14 
Ill 23-14 


—_ CHENNAI 13 N 4 


Mer 28-37 
Sun 2246 IM 23-14 
I! 19-14 


XI! 22-44 
Moon 2044 | Al 26-14 
Rahu 13-14 


(196-40 
Mar. 17-29 


Will I be able to borrow? 


To know whether you willl be able to borrow or not, the sub- 
lord of the sixth cusp is the index. If the sub-lord of the sixth 
cusp Is deposited in the constellation of a retrograde palnet, 
you cannot borrow. If the sub-lord of the cusp is retrograde 
itself and also the significator of the particular matter in question 
then the matter will frutity only after it takes direct motion. If the 
sub-lord and the lord of the constellation in which the sub-lord 
is placed are in direct motion, you will be able to borrow. If the 
sub-lord of the sixth cusp is Sun, the loan will be from 
Government sources; or through the help of Government 
Officials; if itis Moon, the lender will agree to advance the money 
very quickly; if itis Mars, there will be an atmosphere of tension 
because the querent will be angered; Mercury shows borrowing 
by correspondence and in instalments; Jupiter will borrow with 
honour and lawfully; Venus shows that the borrowing will be in 
a freindly manner Ifthe sub-lord is Saturn, there will be some 
delay and obstacles. Sublord being aspected by Saturn will 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHAT! 21 


indicate the borrower getting part of the loan applied for or part 
by part jn instalments. 


Here the sub-lord of the sixth cusp is Venus. She is direct in 
motion and is in the constellationn of Rahu. As Rahu always 
traverses in the reverse order of signs, he is considered to be 
always direct in motion and he never retraces his steps. Venus, 
occupying second bhava is in the star of Rahu, occupant of 11 
and Venus is lord of 6 and 11. Therefore, Venus promises that 
the querent will be successful and borrow the money. Venus 
shows that there will not be any difficulty and friendly relations 
will prevail. 


Ifthe sublord is Moon, Mercury or Venus, it will indicate that 
the loan will be forthcoming early. When it has been judged that 
the loan will be granted quickly, the Vimsottart dasa system for 
ascertaing the time of getting the money on hand will not be 
useful and as such the Ruling planets will have to be ascertained 
to know the time. 


As the sub-lord of the sixth cusp is Venus the loan can be 
had quickly and so the transit of the Moon in the constellation of 
the strongest Ruling planet will yield the result. The ruling planets 
are: 


Lagna constellation Uttara oun 
Lagna Sign Leo oun 
Moon Constellation Jeyshta Mercury 
Moon sign Scorpio Mars 
Day lord (Wednesday) Mercury. 


As Rahu is in scorpio, he will act as the agent of Mars, but 
as Mars is in a different sign and house, Mars will have some 
individual force and his powers will not entirely be appropriated 
by Rahu. 


Mercury is a strong ruling planet, occuring as day lord and 
as Moon's constellation lord. Though he is retrograde he is in 
the contstellation of a direct planet but in the sub of retrograde 
Saturn, which is a disqualification. So Mercury is rejected. What 
remains are Sun and Mars. Apparently Sun is a stronger planet 


2? RETROGRADE PLANT 


occurring as lagna constellation and sign lord Mercury and Sun 
are within or of a conjunction. As Sun was in the constellation 
of Moon in 11 and in his own sub, it was thought he would 
indicate the date when Moon transited in his star. As Moon owns 
the 8th house, there may be some difficulty in getting the loan 
On the other hand, Mars is posited in the 12th house, but he is 
in the constellation of Venus, who owns six and eleven and Is 
posited inthe 2nd Mars is in his own sub. 


Therefore, it was suggested to the querent that when Moon 
transited Sun's star Kritika in Aries or Mars' star Mrigasira in 
Gemini, the querent will get the loan amount i.e. on February 
18 or 21, 1975. and he got itt on the 21st. 


It will be seen thal retrograde Mercury in conjunction with 
Sun and Sun in the constellation of Moon, lord of 8, though Sun 
iS apparently a strong Ruling Planet, has not given the result 
But, though Mrigasira ts in the sign of retrograde Mercury, has 
been fruitful, because Mars, by constellation, is better placed, 
not withstanding Mars is In the 12th house. 


(,ood Luck. 


A LESSON FROM RETROGRADE 
PLANETS: RE-SELLING A CAR 


lf a number of planets are retrograde and interlinked with 
each other, then one has to decide which of such planets under 
the Ruling Planets will constitute the sensitive zone for the transit 
of Moon and the main significator at the time of fructification. 
The present case helped to solve a number of questions 
regarding retrograde planets which { wish to share with you. 


Selling one's car is now-a-days a transaction occuring often 
and one must realize that the 9th house may be much more 
important in it than the usual fourth house. Acquiring a car 
means that the seller (7) has a car 10 for 4 from?/}, and if he 
gives up his car, then the 9th house comes in. Therefore, 
without the 9th house, it is impossible to acquire a car. 


50, the house for acquistion of a car are: 4 in general, 9 in 
particular, 11 for fulfilment of desire:- 


Beyond this, the sublord of the 4th house must be somehow 
connected with Venus, the main Karaka for transport or cars.- 


Selling a car means to negate the foregoing procedure: the 
house 12 to 4,9,11 indicate the sale: 3,8,10. Again 11 for the 
fulfilment of the ambition. 


There are § more houses and we should see which of them 
are helpful and which are destructive or neutral: 


Lagna is now the seller. 7th cusp is the prospective buyer. 
Keeping the car: 4 and 9. This means the denial of the sale. 


24 RETROGRADE PLANT 
oélling the car: 8, 3,10 and 11. 


House 5 is favourable as it means the fulfilment of the 
ambition of the prospective buyer. If there is no desire, the buyer 
will not buy. 


The tenth house means that the car will pass into the 
possession of the buyer and become 4 from 7 = 10. It also 
shows if the buyer can pay it. 


The 12th house means that the seller has his car transcribed 
upon the name of the buyer at the motoregistry department. 


The 12th house means also disposal or giving away in 
general. Itis a helpful house. 


House six refers to the investment of the buyer. House 2 is 
the bank account of the seller. 


What happened was this An astrologer lady in Germany 
who takes a correspondence course with me decided to make 
a five week Australia-Tour with her partner who was in a bad 
condition of general health. She invited me to join the tour and 
rent a large comfortable car with good seats and springs for 
the sore back and ample space for the legs. Such car costs 
here A$ 1200 for five weeks. So | decided rather to buy an old 
car in good condtion and see if | can make some profit. | got the 
1200 $, paid 180 Dollar extra acquired a Chrysler Valiant Regal 
1972 with 92000 miles on. 


We made the tour of five weeks with a Yoga-program every 
morning and an astrology-class in the afternoon driving about 
6,600 km up into the far north of Australia. A few days after 
return when they had left by flight to Europe, | fancied that 83 
would be an appropriate number for a horary chart for getting 
rid of the car as it used about 18 liter of super for 100km,. 


My German Volkswagen Golf Diesel uses only 6.5 litres of 
the cheaper destillate. 


The calculation was done on Saturday, the 6th April 1985 al 
9h29m a.m. which is previous day GT 23h29m. Ayanamasa 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHATI 25 


23°33'. Geocentric latitude- 33°44' (south) longitude east: 
151°12' for sydney. 


a) Moon must reflect the problem clearly 


b) The sub lord of lagna should decribe more or less clearly 
as well. 


Moon is lord of lagna: it is the problem of the questioner 
directly 


Moon in two in the star of 4th and 9th lord Mars in 9, Moon 
shows the recently acquired car. 


Moon is inthe sub of Saturn in 3, a house of sale. 


Moon aspects the 8th cusp, another house of sate Moon is 
in vice-versa aspect with 3rd and 10th lord Venus in 8. 


50 Moon signifies Ac, 4,9 = my car. In a round-about manner 
Moon signifies all the three houses of sale: 3,8,10, 


Saturday, 6th April 1985 at 9Sh29m a.m. in Sydney/ 
Australia. 

This is Greenwich time on the previous day: GT 
23h29m/ 5-4-85 

Sidereal time at O hrs GT on 5-4-85: 12h 59m 57s. 
Geocentric latitude: 33°44' (south) Longitude east + 
151912". 

Krishnamurti-Ayanamasa: 23°33’ - Mars Dasa Balance 
ay 8m 9d till 15th December 1988 - 


oun 22°33 53" Pisces, Jupiter 
Mercury-star, Moon-sub, Jupiter 
Moon 29°39'18" Virgo, Mercury, 
Mars-star, Saturn-sub, Rahu 
Mars Aries, Mars, 22°6'6" 
Venus-star, Saturn-sub,Sun 
Rahu 26°34 '24" Aries, Mars 
Venus-star, Kethu-sub, Mercury-sub-sub 
Jupiter 18°12'48" Makara, Saturn, 


Moon-star, Mercury-sub, Venus-sub-sub 


6 RETROGRADE PLANT 


saturn 3°52'4" Scorpio. Mars 
saturn-star, Saturn-sub, Mercury-sub-sub. 

Mercury 18°17'2" Pisces, Jupiter - Mercury-star, 
Mercury-sub, Saturn-sub-sub 

Kethu 26°34'24" Libra, Venus. Jupiter-star 
Venus-sub, Mercury-sub-sub. 

Venus 19°15'48" Pisces, Jupiter- Mercury-star 


Kethu-sub, Mercury-sub-sub. 


Ac 27°§3'20" Cancer, Moon-Mercury-star 
Ssaturn-sub, Saturn-sub-sub. 
: 171923'43" Virgo, Mercury-Moon-star 


Mars-sub, Saturn-sub-sub, 


lll. 15°53'16" Libra, Venus-Rahu-star 
Venus-sub, Mars-sub-sub 


NV. 4°43'22" Scorpio, Mars-Saturn-star 
Moon-sub, Venus-sub-sub. 

V 4°43'22" Dhanu, Jupiter- Kethu-star 
Moon-Sub, Mercury-sub-sub 

VI. 28°8'11" Dhanu, Jupiter-Sun-star 
Moon-sub, Mercury-sub-sub. 

VIL. 27°53'20" Makara, Saturn-Mars-star 
Ssaturn-sub, Saturn-sub-sub. 

Vill 41°23'43" Pisces, Jupiter-Saturn-star 
Moon-sub, Jupiter-sub-sub. 

Ix 15°53'16" Aries, Mars-Venus-star 
Sun-sub, Saturn-sub-sub. 

MC 12°1'31" Taurus, Venus-Moon-star 
Rahu-sub, Rahu-sub-sub. 

Xl, 4°43'22" Gemini, Mercury-Mars-star 
Venus-sub, Mercury-sub-sub. 

XII. 28°8'11" Gemini, Mercury-Jupiter-star 


Venus-sub, Saturn-sub-sub. 


Fortuna: 9°56" Scorpio, Mars, Saturn-star, Venus-sub, 
Mercury-sub-sub. 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI ai 


Ruling Planets: 

Day lord ‘Saturn retrograde. 

AC signlord : Taurus, Venus retrograde. 

AC stariord =: Sun. 

Moon-signiord : Mercury retrograde. 

Mioon stariord : Mars conj. Rahu. 

The strong Ruling Planets (Sun, Rahu. 

The weak Ruling Planets ‘Mars, Moon, 

The retrograde Ruling Planets 1: Venus, Mercury, Saturn. 

AC infixed sign = 3rd zone for Sun'Moon- Transit from present 
poistion: 

1) Libra, Venus, Rahu-star. 

2) Makara, Saturn, Rahu-star. 

3) Kumbha, Saturn, Rahu-star 

4) Aries, Mars, Sun-star, Sun-sub. 

5) Aries, Mars, Sun-star, Moon-sub. 

6) Aries, Mars, Sun-star, Mars-sub 


Mioon in vice-versa aspect with sun and in sign, star, sub of 
rulling planets becomes also a ruling Planet 


Mercury gets direct on 18th April 1985. 
Venus gets direct on 26th April 1985. 


Lagna-Sub lord Saturn is in 3 in own star and own sub and 
aspects the 5th and 8th lord jupiter, the 10th cusp and is posited 
in the sub of the 11th Lord. Saturn therefore is connected to 3, 
10,5,8 and 1t. 


Micon reflects well and the Lagna-sub-ford promising some 
SuCCeSS. 


The car is indicated mainly by the 9th house as it is recently 


28 RETROGRADE PLANT 


acquired. The condition is now, that this sub lord of the 9th 
house must be somehow connected to Venus, the main 
indicator for cars: Sun lord Sun is on 30 conjunct Venus That 
is sufficient. All conditions are fulfilled and the chart must reveal 
a) when the car will be sold, and b) what price | will get. 


But first we have to see, if the car will be sold: 


The sub lord of the 9th house decides this:- Sun in 8 denies 
keeping the car= 9 So the car will be sold. Sun is in the star of 
the 11th lord, a good omen, and conjunct 3rd and 10th lord 
Venus and 4° conjunct 11th lord Mercury. 


sun therefore signifies:- 8,11,3.10 ali the three required house 
of sale and also the fulfilment of the ambition. 


The sub lord of the 11th house, or in short the 1ith sub lord 
Venus is retrograde and in the star and sub of retrograde planets. 
There is no denial as the main house is the 9th house. However, 
as long as Venus and her star lord are retrograde no fulfilment 
of the ambition is possible. Each related cusp for the selling 
shows a part of the problem. 


On the 26th of April Venus gets direct and Mercury, her star 
lord gets direct on 18th April. There is nothing before the 26th 
April. So there is no use to spend money on advertisements 
before 26th April has passed. 


The sub lord of the fourth cusp only shows holding the 
car=4+9, but four is not deceiding anything:- 


Now the date of sale after 26th April 1985: - 


Ruling planets at the start of the calculatiou: 


Day lord Saturn 

Moon Rasi-lard : Mercury- 

Moon Star lord : Mars conjunct Rahu 
Lagna-lord - Taurus, Venus 


Lagna Star-lord - Sun 


KRISHNAMURT! PAGHDRATI 2g 


The Lagna in a fixed sign means third zone tor Moon-transit 
And for the all important 9th Sublord Sun it will be necessary to 
transit any sensitive zone which stands for the sale of the car. 


Sun is ina retrograde star. That does not matter at all. Only 
sun must not pass any more in the retrograde star in which 
Sun is now. 


Venus, Mercury, Saturn are retrograde and in retrograde 
stars. Mars and Rahu and Sun are in retrograde stars. Mars. 
saturn, Mercury are in retrograde subs. 


Moon aspects three rutting planets vice versa and Moon is in 
the sign, star and sub of Ruling Planets, therefore Moon also 
becomes a Ruling Planet. 


As Moon signifies strongly 4+9 or keeping the car and only 
per aspects and sub the sale in a round-about manner, Moon 
can give the day lord only for the day of sale, nothing more. 


My rule is that a retrograde planet can give only the sign for 
a sensitive Zone and never the star lord! Transit of Moon. 


First sensitive zone for the Moon is : Thula Venus, Rahu- 
star. 7,4, + 4-5-85 


Second sensitive zone is; Makara, Saturn, Sun-star. 12,4 + 
10-5-85, 


Third sensitive zone is: Makara, Saturn, Mars-star But Rahu 
in 4° conjunction replaces the Mars as nodes are stronger. So 
the real third sensitive zone 1s: 


Kumbha, Saturn, Rahu-star 15,4 + 13-5-85. 
Moon transits this zone on Monday, the 13th May, 1985. 


sun has to pass into any sensitive zone made up direct 
Ruling Planets: 


Next zone for the Sun-transit is: Mesha, Mars, Sun-star. There 
wer got: 1) Sun-sub, 2) Moon-sub, 3)Mars-sub. On Monday. 
13th May, 1985 the Sun passes thru Mars-sub. The sale must 
take place on that day 


30 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Moon and Sth sub lord, which happens to be the Sun, are in. 
the proper sensitive zones then. 


[t is Mars-Dasha, Saturn-Bhukti, Jupiter-Antra, Mercury- 
sukshma 7.5-15.5.85. 12th cusp is: Mithuna, Mercury, Jupiter- 
star, Venus-sub, Saturn-sub sub 


The 12th house stands of transcribing the possession and 
for diposal of the car, This cusp is running in time: Mars in 
Venus.otar gives the result of Venus. | always find that a related 
cusp is running in time when an important event takes place, in 
horary as well as in the birth-chart. Sometimes small extensions 
are there. This is a very valuable tool in my opionton to get 
better results in rectifiction and increase the conviction of a 
date in horary. - 


What | learn from this chart is that retrograde planets can be 
on the planetary period, it does not matter al all, even when in 
retrograde stars and retrograde subs. 


For sensitive zones, a planet must be direct to give the star 
lord. It does not matter, if such planet is na retrograde star 
(Mcon moves thru Rahu-star, Sun moves thru Sun-star at 
fulfilment, both planets again were in retrograde stars before). 


A retrograde planet is entitled to give the sign lord ofa 
sensitive zone:- 


Fortuna should give the price:- either symbolically or directly. 


However the condition is that Fortuna is connected to the 
houses of sale, otherwise, how can it indicate the price, if it ts 
not signifying the sale’ 


Here Fortuna is placed in the 3rd house 6° conjunct the 3rd 
lord Saturn. 


Fortuna is placed in star of the lord of the 3rd and 7th house 
Saturn, in the sub of Venus, main indicator for vehicles and lord 
of 3 and 10 in 8 conjunct Mercury, lord of the 11th house. 


In this way Fortuna is connected to 3, 10,8 which are all the 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHAT| a1 


required houses for sale and also to the 11th house. Fortuna is 
in the sub-sub of Mercury. lord of the 11th house. Fortuna could 
not describe the sale more completely. 


Fortuna must give the price: itis 1020 from the horary lagna 
of number 83. 


symbolically, it gives price of Dollar 1020 as net-price. It is 
my experience, that the direct costs of a sale as for 
advertisements will be received additionally. The ads were Dollar 
30. So ! must receive Dollar 1050 


Now what happened There were several weeks of bad rainy 
weather in April. So there was no use to place the 
advertisements. My friend who gota telephone agreed to place 
ads for me and receive the inquiries. We wanted to place the 
ads for the beginning of Mav for three days. On 24th April was 
beautiful sunny weather, he could not reach me and placed the 
ads for 26th/27th April. But that weekend again brough plenty of 
rain. 50 the ads had to be repeated for the next weekend. 


We got an inquiry trom out-of-town, one only and the 
gentleman announced himself for Saturday, the 11th May to 
see the car Sun had just moved into Sun-star, Sun-sub and 
Moon was Makara, Saturn, Moon-star when be came 


The ad was on Dollar 1275. We agreed on Dollar 1150, finally. 
He came back on Monday, the 13th May with a bank-cheque on 
my name and on 1050 Dollar only. 


Arrival at 17h 49m = GT 7h 49m 


Moon transit in Kumbha, Saturn Rahu-star, Venus-sub, 
Mercury-sub-sub 


The Rising Point was in Scorpio, Mars, Saturn-star, Mercury- 
Sub=day lord and Moon-position of the Rulling Planets on 6th 
April 1985. 


Rule is that ihe Lagna of the event should transit a sensitive 
zone made up by Moon-sign lord and Moon-star lord of the 
Ruling Planets. And the Moon should transit a sensitive zone 


a2 RETROGRADE PLANT 


made up the Lagna-sign lord and Lagna-star lord of the Ruling 
plantes. 


{t bothered me a bit that 1 should give in to the symbolical 
value of Fortuna 1020430 costs = 1050 Dollar. Am J really bound 
to it? No Freedom left? So | kept bargaining to get Dollar 1.100 
and turned down the sale. itwas 18h 36m when he said you 
take itor | leave now. So | took the cheque finally and no extra 
money. 


Moon had then just entered sun-sub. Lagna rising was 
scorpio, Mars, Mercury-star, Rahu-sub. 


Lagna was exactly on the planets which ruled the Moon- 
position on 6th April. 


Rahu in Mesha stood for Saturn in scerpio as well, also Mars 
conjointly Rahu 


90 the Moon-position was ruled by Mercury, Mars, Rahu 
coryomtly and the running lagna was in that zone when the deal 
became finalized. 


Mloon was out of Venus-sub Mercury-sub-sub, planets which 
were retrograde on the 6th April and had entered Sun-sub the 
lagna-star jord of calculation. So Moon was per star and sub 
on the planets which made up the lagna at calculation (Rahu in 
Venus-star replaced Venus). 


All the cogwheels of destiny were in a perfect place. Net- 
profit was Dollar 840 for me for buying a car instead of hiring 
one for the five week tour. 


Now | wish to demonstrate the application of the sub sub- 
technique: 13-5-85:- 


The cusp of the 12th house stands for general disposal of 
the car and for signing it over: Mithuna, Mercury, Jupiter-star, 
Venus-sub, Saturn-sub-sub 


Mars-Dasha Satum-Bhukti, Jupiter-Antra, Mercury-Sukshma 
7-5-85 - 15-6-85.- 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHAT! 33 


Mars in Venus-star gives the result which Venus indicates. 
Venus is lord of 3 and 19 in 8. So it is natural that Mars replaces 
Venus. 


Therefore, the exact period of the 12th cusp Is running in 
time. 


sukshma-lord and Lord ofthe 11th house Mercury transits. 


Mesha, Mars, Ketu-star, Mars-sub, Venus,-subsub. Ketu in 
thula for Venus. 


11th cusp = Mithuna, Mercury, Mars-star, Venus-sub, 
Mercury-subsub. 


Mercury is transiting the signification of the 11th cusp without 
repeating himself. 


see my other aritcle in which | explained the subsub- 
technique. The four planets on a cusp-signlord, stariord, 
sublord, subsub-lord | call the "signification" of a cusp. The 
transiting planet does not need to repeat himself to fulfill the 
signification in full. This was established with several hundred 
cases. 


VVhen an event happens then Dasha, Bhukti, Antra, Sukshma 
of a cusp related to that event is running in time. This nearly 
always so, bul sometimes smaller deviations are there for which 
particular rules are applicable. 


Sun transits Mesha, Mars, Sun-star, Mars-sub, Ketu-subsub. 


Ketu stands for Venus. Sun was in Mercury-star and give 
the results of Mercury. So one can say, that Sun ts transiting 
the signification of the 11th cusp at fructifiction. 


Rahu transits Mesha, Mars, Venus-star, Mercury-sub, Venus- 
subsub. 


Rahu transits exactly in the significtion of the 11th cusp, made 
up of the planets Mars, Mercury,Venus. It does not matter in 
which order or if a planet comes single or double. The 
signification is fulfilled completely. 


a4 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Venus transits Meena, Jupiter, Mercury-star, Mercury-sub, 
Jupiter-sudsub. 


Venus transits on signification of the 12thcusp. Venus does 
not need fo repeat herself to fulfill the signification. A small 
diviationis there as Saturn, the subsub-lord of the 12th cusp is 
lacking. Still the transit of Venus is very meaningful in terms of 
the signification of a related cusp. 


Mars transits Taurus, Venus, Moon-star, Mercury-sub, Venus 
Subsub. 


Moon in Mars-star at calculation gives the results of Mars. 


Therefore Mars transits on the signification of the cusp of 
the 11th house. 


Ketu transits the significtion of the cusp of the 12th house 
per sign, star, sub. Ketu transits in the subsub of Sun which 
was in Mercury-star and gives the results of Mercury. The cusp 
had Saturn as Subsub-lord. Ketu is 7° conjunct Saturn in the 
same house, but separated by another sign. Still Ketu stands 
for Saturn. The rule is that the transiting planet may choose to 
repeat himself or not, still it fulfills the signification in full. 


Ketu is significator of 3,10,8,11 = all three houses of sale 
and the house of gain. Ketu transits the signification of the cusp 
of the sixth house which shows receipt of money. 


6=Dhanu, Jupiter, Sun-star, Moon-sub, Mercury-subsub. 


Moon was in vice-versa aspect with Venus. So Venus 
appears here in the transit instead of Moon. 


Sun, Mercury. Mars, Rahu, Venus and Ketu were transiting 
inthe signification of a cusp related to the sale of the car. My 
hypothesis is that always four planets transit directly or indirectly 
in the signification of a cusp related to an event of importance 
at the time of fructification. { make use of my finding to rectify 
birth-charts not only with all the sublords, but prove also the 
majority of the subsubs on the 12 houses. 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHATI 35 


When | did not succeed to increase the amount and the 
client was ready to leave without car, it was 16h 36m to 18h 
37m, when | accepted his cheque. 


At 18h 40m | was back in my home and checked the watch 
there. 


The rising point in the East was onthe significtion of the 11 th 
house-cusp:- 


Scorpio, Mars, Mercury-star, Rahu-sub, Mercury-subsub. 
Rahu for Venus. 


Moon was from 18h 34m till 18h 40m in Kumbha, Saturn, 
Rahu-star, Sun-sub, Moon-sub-sub. Moon in two stands for 
receipt of cash, increase of bank-account. But Moon signifies 
very strongly 44+9=denial of sale. No wonder that the client was 
ready now to change his mind and drop the purchase altogether. 
| was salistied to see that the sale mainfested as calculated by 
horary on 6th April 1985 and that | received the money as 
indicated by Fortuna. Only at 18h 36m till 18h 37m the time 
was ripe for the final deal. So it must be Understood that it was 
pre-programmed that f would give him a tough time before he 
would leave happily 50 minutes later. 


He was brought fo my home by another car and wanted to 
leave immediately upon arrival. But as one can see, neither the 
Moon, nor the rising point inthe East had reached their strongest 
sensilive zone yet. 


Good Luck to all. 


RETROGRADE & TRANSFER _ 


Query on 4-3-1969 at 2.24PM. 1S.T. at 17°19' North and 
76°54'East-Longitude-Nature of the query- TRANSFER’ - It is 
unknown When? 


Man 35954 12.98 | 
Dal Sho? 35.78 Lagna 
Day S458 25°20 «22.50 


—  — 


Sun 
320°18'3 7.2" 


Nirayana 


Rasi Chart 


Mercury 
295°-4'17,.58" 


Jupiter (FR) 
Mars 160774.25" 
219°49'38.49" Kethu 
169°0'53.28° 


Balance of Dasa at Query 6 years 9 months 12 days. 


The following is the Bhava Table: 
L - VIL Mercury 
lL Moon Vill = Sun 
ll. Jupiter (R} and Kethu IX Rahu 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHAT| 3? 


iV. - X Venus and Saturn 
Ve Mars x - 
VA. - Xl - 
Planets Star Lord Sub Lord 
1. Sun Jupiter Jupiter 
2. Moon Venus Satu 
3. Mars Saturn Venus 
4, Mercury Mars Rahu 
§. Jupiter(R) = Moon Moon 
6. Venus Mercury Saturn 
7. saturn Mercury saturn 
8. Rahu oatum Kethu 
9. Kethu sun Venus 
10.  Lagna Jupiter Mercury 


Generally in service, transfer involves that a native has to 
change the place of service, and in many cases his residence 
also. In the horoscope the 3rd house indicates change of place 
and journey, 10th house shows employment and 12th house 
signifies life in a totally different environmnets. So whenever 
one wants to know regarding transfer which presupposes a 
journey, change of place and duties at a different place, we 
have to take into consideration the houses 3, 10 and 12. 


To proceed on leave and go on tour consider houses 3,9 
and 12. 


B. Is planetary position of the Present Chart indicates the 
Querist's Query? 


Invariably “Moon” indicates the mind. This rule does not fail! 
In the present chart under consideration Moon is in the 
constellation of Venus. 


Venus owns houses 5th and 12th and occupies 10th house, 
so as Staled above, 19th house shows employment and 12th 
house signifies life in a totally different environments. 


38 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Now look al thie position of Moon the indicator of mind. Moon 
is in 3rd indicating change of place and journey. Further ard 
house has an aspect of Sun (7th aspect). The lord of 3rd and 
Rahu (6th aspect). This strengthens the indications of question, 
l.e., change of place and journey Rahu aspects 12th house 
(3rd aspect) and lagna lord Mercury {11th aspect). This 
strengthens the indications of question, Le., life in a totally 
different envronments and indicates personal question. Rahu's 
position shows employment. Lastly Jupiter(R), lord of 10th house 
aspects, Mercury (5th aspect}, 10th house (7th aspect) and 
12th house matters (9th aspect). Thus all the above facts 
confirm me to declare that the Querist's query Le., "Transfer" 
is clearly indicated by,the planetary positions 


Westerners are quite correct in the prepartaion cof Bhava 
chart because first cusp or ascendant is the beginning of lagna 
bhava and not about 15° behind the ascendant. Hence to solve 
the present question, let us consider the bhava positions of 
planets itself. 


Now about the Transfer-Judges houses 3,10 and 12. 


3rd Bhava is occupied by Jupiter(R) and Kethu. Sun is in the 
constellation of Jupiter and no planet is of Kethu's constellation. 
Therefore Sun and Kethu are significators Jupiter(R) by 
occupying the 3rd Bhava will also become a significator but 
nextin strength. 


10th Bhava is occupied by VENUS and Saturn. The planets 
in the constellation of Venus and Saturn are Moon, Mars and 
Rahu-Venus and Saturn by occupying the 10th Bhava will also 
become a significator by next in strength. 


12th Bhava is vacant. 


The lords of 3rd. 10th and 12h are Sun, Jupiter and Venus 
respectively. The planets in the constellation of Sun, Jupiter 
and Venus are Kethu, Sun and Moon respectively. 


50 the planets that can cause transfer are Sun, Moon, Mars, 
Jupiter(R) Venus, Saturn, Rahu and Kethu. Now we have to 


KRISHNAMURT! PADRBHAT! 3g 


find out whether any nede is in the sign owned by any one of 
the signiticators. Since the nodes are always stronger than the 
planet to bestow results in preference to the planets themselves. 
Rahu' is in Pisces-Meena owned by Jupiter in Rasi chart with 
Venus and Saturn Hence Rahu is a strong significator. Kethu 
is conjoined with Jupiter a significator and further Kethu is in 
3rd Bhava. So Kethu is a strong significator. Therefore reject 
Jupiter and slelect Rahu and Kethu. Any planet inthe sub of 
Rahu or Kethu (Nodes) will reflect the results as caused by 
them. In the present horoscope "MERCURY" is in the sub of 
‘Rahu' and 'Hahu' itself is in the sub of Kethu. Hence Mercury 
will reflect the result. According to Prof. Krishnamurti, if the 
significators are more than four the ruling stars of the moment 
al the time of judgement will help in selecting the planet out of 
the significator and eliminating a few. 


The ruling planets at the time of solving the question are as 
follows (solved on 4-3-1969 at6.55PM 15.1) 


Lord of day Mars 
Lord of the rasi oun 
Lord of the constellation Venus 
Lord of ascendant Mercury 
Lord of the ascendant star Sun 


The commen planets of the significator and the ruling planets 
are Sun, Venus and Mars. 


sun is a planet in the constellation of Jupiter, a retrograde 
palnet. The planet inthe constellation of retrograde planet. 
appear to give results, but uttimatiey falls through Therefore 
Sun appears to give results but ultimately it is will not give,so 
reject sun. 


At the moment of query the querist is running under the major 
period of Venus and sub period of Saturn and inSaturn Antara. 
The balance in “Saturn” anthara 1 month 11 days 21 hours. 
Mercury is in Mars constellation and in Rahu's Sub. Hence as 


40 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Stated above "Mercury" will reflect the result during his period 
as caused by Rahu. Hence select Mercury Anthara as a period 
of transfer This operates between 16-4-1969 {11 24hours) and 
27-9-1969 (23.24hours). 


Out of this peiod select Kethu Shaekshma. This period 
operates between 9-5-1969 and 19-5-1969. Now let us find out 
whether Sun transits in the sign of dasanatha or in the sign of 
bhuktinatha and in star of dasanatha or in bhuktinatha. Luckily 
on 9-5-1969, Sun transits in the sign of "ARIES" ruled by "MARS" 
in the star of Venus and in Mercury sub. Further 9-5-1969 is a 
Friday ruled by Venus (Planet in exaltation and a strong 
significator in the consideration). During this day "MOON" is in 
"Dhanishta star" governed by "Mars". 


According to Prof.Krishnamurti (a) The ruling at the time of 
query are the ruling planets at the time of birth and (b) The 
ruling planet at the time of fulfilment of querist's desire are also 
the ruling planet at the moment of querry. 


Thus on§$-5-1969, there is a strong relationship between the 
ruling planets of that day, i.e., the day of fulfilment of querist’s 
desire and also the ruling planets at the time of query. 


Hence | declare that the querist's transfer will take place on 
9-5-1969 positively. 


GOOD LUCK ! 


THE TRUTH OF THE THEORY OF 
KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 


Man, by nature, is gregarious being. His first learning, as 
child results from imitation, and, as age advances, he tends 
increasingly to bind himself fo others in partnership. Human 
beings have a certain chemistry that draws two people to one 
another unalterably and causes them to fulfill a special yeaming 
foreach other. Man's primary partner is a life mate with whom 
he can function on all the levels of being open to him. 


As, we all know everything in the universe is comprised of 
energy. This energy is polarized between masculine-feminine, 
positive-negative, day-night, etc. In order for creation to take 
place, the energy must be polarized. Marriage is the response 
of human nature to the universal law of polarity. It serves to 
fulfill the divine purpose of propagating the species. 


“Marriage, as F.W. Roberstson has aptly decribed, “is not a 
union merely between two creatures-it is a union between two 
creatures-it spirits; and the intention of that bond is to perfect 
the nature of both, by supplementing their deficiencies with the 
fource of contrast, giving to each sex those excellencies in which 
it is naturally deficient; to the one strength of character and 
firmness of moral will; to the other, sympathy, meekness, 
tenderness there is no earfhly relationship which has so much 
power to enable and to exalt." 


The science of Astrology explains existence and life. It is a 
unique system of interpretation of the corelation of planetary 
action in human expenence Its secretlies inthe understanding 
of Time. The three most imporfant factors which constitutue 


42 RETROGRADE PLANT 


the found action for all astrological work are the planets, the 
signs and the houses. Each sign is identified by certain 
characteristics while each house decribes the special 
department of life through which the individual would enter into 
relationship with his environment The planets represent focal 
points of unconscious energies, associated with basic life 
principles. For instance, Jupiter governs the principle of 
expansion through growth, materially and by undersatnding [n 
the Hindu literature of yore, he is called ‘Brikaspati’ (Birth means 
expanston! Mars rules the principle of activity through 
enterprise, initiatory force, selfassertion and energetic 
expression Saturn expresses the priniciple of control or 
limitation. Venus presides over the priniciple of unity, adaptability 
and harmoney Mercury's life priniciple is communication through 
mental and nervous coordination and transmission The Sun's 
principle is power, vitality and selfexpression, and that of the 
Moon is fluctutation 


The planetary prinic: ples are not expressed in the same way 
through all the signs. Ifsuppose, in a chart, Mercury is poisted 
in Rishba in the 7th house, how will it work? Mercury. as we 
have seen, represents the communicative principle. Rishaba 
is an earthy, fixed sign and shows materiality and practicality. 
Mercury in Rishaba would incline the individual to think in 
concrete terms so that he would orient himself towards practical 
goals The sign is as important to a planet as an adjective is to 
a noun Ihe effect of a planet in a sign would be further modified 
by other factors, such as the house occupied, the constellation 
tenanted and the aspects received. Mercury in the 7th house, 
which rules partnership in life or business as well as all those 
with whom there is’ any dealing, reveals that the individual's 
mental faculties Would be used in a concrete or practical way 
in affairs connected with partnership or any matter which 
implies reciprocity or rapport with other people. Mercury in the 
7th house in the constellation of a significator of the 4th house 
would donote marriage with a relative, and in the constellation 
of a significator of the 9th house marriage with an unknown 
person or a stranger, Mercury in the 7th house in the 


KAISHNAMURT! PADHDHATI 43 


constellation of lord of 5 occupying the 11th house shows 
successful culmination of love in marriage and lasting 
friendship. Mercury in the 7th house in the constellation of lord 
of 5 occupying the 8th orthe 12th house shows difficulties by 
association, scandal and hostile criticism. Mercury in the 7th 
house identical with Rishaba generally indicates unsettled 
married life and dissension with the partner, but also legacy 
and financial success of the marriage This is so because, in 
such a case, Mercury becomes the lord of the 6th and 11th 
houses. Mercury and the 8th house together show mental 
worries and troubles, and Mercury, the 8th and 11th combined 
denote gains by legacy, partners money, etc. If Mercury in such 
a situation is afflicted by constellational position or aspect, it 
may make the individual liable to litigation to defend against 
liable from other or an account of liable committed by himself 
(Mercury indicates writings) or in connection with a legacy left 
to himithe 8th house rules legacy and the 7th litigation). Mercury 
in Rishaba in the 7th in the constellation of a planet signifying 
evil houses shows a domineering, nagging partner, a sarcastic, 
untruthful and hasty tempered person. If the same Mercury Is 
in the constellation of Venus signifying favourable houses, say 
2,5,/ and 11, it indicates a successful marriage to a youthful, 
loving, kind and sympathetic person who is ever also willing to 
accommodate. The partner will have good physical features 
and a graceful countenance. It also denotes an early marriage 
and an increase of prosperify after that event. The partner will 
be artistically inclined and would pave the way for domestic 
felicity and happiness. By studying the planets in this manner 
and by nothing the interrelationships between the planets 
(aspects) and between the planets and the various houses, a 
correct planetary picture of the individual can surely be reached. 


Venus has traditionally been styled as the planet of unify, 
love, sympathy and harmony. She is ever ready to give wound 
and even to alter her own nature, in order to effect a compromise 
or arrive at a mutual understanding. No wonder she has been 
invested with an important role in affairs concerning marriage. 
she is hailed as the 'kalathra karaka', the che:f governor for 


AA RETROGRADE PLANT 


matrimaney. Of the signs, Thula has connection with the 
principle of union, and this again ts ruled by Venus. In astrological 
language, the 7th house bears reference to union or partnership 
of any kind, be it marriage or business or trade ties, agreements, 
etc. This house more than any other, tells us about the 
prospective spouse of the individual, the nature of marriage, 
the number of marriages that will be contracted, and the state 
of married life in general. In the traditional system practised in 
India, the old astrologers only took Venus and the 7th house 
into accout. Proof.K.S Krishnamurti, author of the now famous 
Krishnamuri padhdhati, went a step furhter. He argued thal as 
marriagé is after all the strictest tie of perpetual friendship and 
contributes fo the expansion of the family the houses 2 and 11 
should additionaly be consideered. The 2nd house deals with 
family and its growth, and the 11th with ties of a permanent 
character. Thus the 2nd, 7th and 11th houses should be 
investigated together in ascertaining everything related to 
marriage, the prospects of married life, the personality of the 
partner and the time of marriage. 


It has been said that marriage comes off but late in life if (i) 
Saturn is poisted in houses 1,3,5,7 and 10 counted from the 
lagna, especially so when in houses 4,7 and 11 reckoned from 
Chandra and or Sukra, (ii) Malefics occupy the 7th and adversely 
aspected, (ili) Mars is in the 8th, (iv) Moon and Saturn conjoin 
together in houses 2,7 and 11 and (Vv) Chandra, Venus and lord 
of 7 receive evil aspect, especially from Jupiter or Uranus or 
even when favourably aspected by Saturn. With these principles 
in mind, we shall presently see how effectively Krishnamurti 
Padhdhati answers the delay in fructification of marriage and 
the exact time of marriage. 


The native was born on 22-3-1944 at 10-10 a.m. (1.5.T) at 
19°18' North Latitude and 84°51' East Longitude. At the time of 
birth, the balance of Mars dasa, according to the Vimshottari 
system was 0 year, 2 months and 28 days. 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 


Mercury 1325' 
AL13.19 
Sun #24 

Ven. 13°07" 

x 101 
Moon 

b'12°22" 


| Ura. 1230! 
XI 1B 19° | 


Mars 357? 


20 93 Pg 


Sat 2rd 


Rahu 10°54’ 
H 12 19 
Jup.{R} 

24°48' 


NIRAYANA 


IX 12 18 
Kelu 10°54) | 


VII FPA , 20°53" 


Cuspal Positions: 


House sign Lord 
i Mercury 
Vil Mars 

Xl Jupiter 


Vi 16°19" 


I¥ 10°19" 


——,—--- 
MNeptune(R} 
956 
¥ 3 


Planetary Positions: 


Panet Housets} 
Owned Occupied 
Oun- 6 10 
Meon a 9 
Mars 712 1 
Mercury 25 11 
Jupiter(R} aT 3 
Venus 14 D 
Salim 9/10 1 
Rahu z 


otar Lord sub Lord 
Rahu Venus 
Mercury Venus 
Saturn Rahu 
Deposited .4 
Sign Sla owned by Sub owned by 
Meena Satum Venus 
Kumbha Mars Meon 
Mihuna Mars Venus 
Meena  Satum Rahu 
Kalaka Mercury Rahu 
Kumbha Rahu Mercury 
Rishaba Mars Jupiter 
Kalaka Satum Venus 


45 


46 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Ker a makara Mocn Moon 
Uranus 5 V4 Rishaba Moon Rahu 
Neptune (A) 4 anya = Sun Venus 


Significators of Marriage 


The significators are the planets who are placed in the 
consteilations of those occupying houses 2,/,11 the occupants 
of these houses, the planets tenated in the constellation of lords 
of these houses and the lords of 2,7 and 11 


2nd House: Rahu is in the 2nd house. Venus is in Rahu's 
nakshatra, Mercury owns the 2nd. Jupiter is in Mercury's star. 


7th House: Unoccupied. Mars is the lord of the house. Mars 
occupied his own star and Saturn and Moon are also posited in 
Mar’s star. 


11th House: Mercury alone occupies this house. Jupiter is 
Stalioned in the star of Mercury. Jupiter is lord of 11 and no 
planet is in Jupiter's star. 


90 the significators are Venus, Jupiter, Mercury, Rahu, Moon, 
oaturn and Mars. Jupiter aspects the 7th and 11th house(by 
the 5th and 9th aspect) as well as Mercury in the 11th house. 
Jupiter is the dasa lord receiving aspect from Saturn, the 
delaying planet. Venus in the constellation, of Rahu who 
occupies the 2nd house and also conjoined with Jupiter, lord of 
11, and Mercury, lord of 2 occupying the 11th house aspected 
by lord of 11 are strong significators by virtue of their conjoint 
ownership of the 7th cusp as star and sub lords. 


As Saturn aspects the dasa lord, Jupiter, the 7th house and 
the Kalathra karaka (Venus) the fructifiction of marriage should 
be delayed. Also, saturn is posited in the lagna and in 4th 
reckoned from both Venus and Moon. The 7th house receives 
Saturn's aspect. Mars aspects the 8th house. Venus and Moon 
are in Evil aspect with Uranus (square) and Jupiter (quincunx). 
Moon and Venus also receive Saturn's aspect according to the 
Indian system. 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI A? 


These testimonies favour delayed marriage, As the sub lord 
of the 7th house is Venus who is the cheif governor for 
matrimony and as Venus is also a significator of the 2nd house, 
the prospect of marriage taking place is confirmed, but as Venus 
is aspected by saturn, the time of the marriage is delayed. 


Bethrothal took place on Friday the 23rd June 19/2. Al that 
time the person was Undergoing Jupiter dasa. Venus bhukthi 
and Mercury anthra, Jupiter is posited in the star of lord of 2nd 
Mereury, in the 11th and the sub of Rahu in the 2nd house. 
Jupiter is lord of the 11 aspects, the 7th, 11th and Mercury. Venus 
is kalathara Karaka inthe star of Rahu in the 2nd and the sub of 
Mercury,lord of 2 in 11. Mercury was the lord of the star and 
Venus of the sub on 7th cusp None of the other planets occupy 
the sub of the occupants of houses2,7 and 11. 


During this time, when Sun transited in Mercury's sign 
Mithuna in the star of Rahu, a significator not only by virtue of 
his placement in the 2nd but also his conjunction with Jupiter 
(lord of 11), lord 7, Mars transited in the 2nd house in dasa lord 
Jupiter's star, lord of 2 and anthra lord, Mercury transited his 
own sign inthe 2nd house inthe star of dasa lord, Jupiter, and 
sub of bhukthi lord, Venus, Moon transited the star of Jupiter, 
dasa lord, and sign of Venus, Bhukthi lord, and when Venus 
herself transited her own sign and the star of lord of 7, the 
betrothal took place. The day was Friday the 23rd June 1972. 


The marriage was celebrated on Saturday the 19th August 
1972 when (i) lord of 7, Mars,transited in Simha in aspect to the 
7th house (4th aspect), bhukthi lord Venus (7th aspect) and 
anthra lord Mercruy (8th aspect} (ii} Venus (lord of the bhukthi} 
transited exactly in conjunction with the cusp of the 2nd house 
in the radical chart, (iii) Mercury tarnsited his own constellation 
Aslesha, (iv) Jupiter and Moon transited in the 7th house, and 
Moon transitted the constellation of Mercury in trine aspect with 
dasa lord, Jupiter's natal position. Jupiter's star. Lord of 7, Mars, 
progresses exactly over the cusp of the natal 2nd house Venus 
progresses in dasa lord's sign Meena inthe constellation of 
Mercury, anthra tord 


48 RETROGRADE PLANT 


In Western Asirology, {he square aspect has been considered 
as unfavourable by most of the authorities. As far as experience 
goes, the effect of square aspect is not evil in the real sense. 
More apily, tis an aspect of struggle and, ultimately, success. 
The square aspect has been found to excite the events in almost 
all cases. Here Progressed Venus in 18° Meena exactly squares 
Progressed Marsin 18°-32'Mithuna as well as Progressed VII 
cusp in 16°-45’'Dhanus. Progressed Moon is in exact square 
aspect to the lagna and the 7th cusps at birth. The effects of 
aspects of progressed Venus and progressed Moon in the 
present case serve to show that we cannot lay much store by 
the so called evil effects of square or opposition aspects. On 
the other hand, they have been instrumental in bringing to pass 
an auspicious event. 


The above illustration amply goes to prove that the system 
of stellar astrologer propounded by the late Prof. Krishnamurti 
alone can clearly pinpoint the nature and time of an event 
accurately. Or else, how can the celebration of marriage in 
Jupiter dasa, Venus Bhukthi, Mercury anthra and Moon 
sookshma be justified? Jupiter aspects the 7th house, it may 
be argued, but does marriage take place in. Jupiter dasa 
whenever il throws such aspect? It is a uniform rule? Venus is, 
of course, the Kalathara karaka but unless she is connected to 
the 7th house in some manner can marriage come about 
according to the traditional rules? Is Venus connected to the 
7th here of even to 2 or 11 by occupation’? In what way according 
to the traditional system, are Mercury and Moon concerned with 
marraige? Do they own the /th house or occupy it or even 
aspect it? Stellar astrology alone can give us the right answer. 
Jupiter by his ownership of the 11th and occupation of the 
constellation of an occupant of the 11th, Venus by her occupation 
of the constellation of a planet in the 2nd, Mercury by reason of 
his rulership over the 2nd, and occupation of the 11th and Moon 
by her constellation position (in the constellation of lord of 7) 
brought about marriage in Jupiter dasa, Venus Bhukthi, Mercury 
anthra and Moon sookshama. The day of marriage was a 
Saturday, and Saturn was a significator by virtue of his situation 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHAT| © 64g 


in the star of Mars. lord of 7, and sub of Jupiter, lord of 41. This 
is the real explanation. The rules of Krishnamurthi Padhdhati 
are simple, sound and scientific and do not admit of any 
ambiguity. [hose who are still swearing by the old system and 
groping in the dark would do well to see writting on the wall and 
seek the right path of stetler astrology as much to their benefit 
as to those who approach them for astrological advice. 


Good Luck... 


- EXALTED JUPITER OFFERS 
ACCIDENTS 


| am now under the major period of Saturn and in the sub 
period of Jupiter. Jupiter is exalted in my horoscope. He is also 
in vargottama position. But unfortunately it was in this sub period 
| suffered from two major accidents while going on motor cycle 
one on 23-7-1963 and the other on 14 -4-1966. | am atalossto 
understand why an exalled and vargottama Jupiter afflicted one 
with accidents. For the first accident, ! paid also a fine of Rs.25/ 
- as | was charged with wrong side driving. As a student of 
astrology, | earnestly request you to inform me why Jupiter, so 
powerful and so strong, has caused accidents and fine? Also ! 
request you to kindly inform me whether any more accidents 
are therein shown for me? If so when? The following is my 
horoscope: 


Saturn (R) 
18-25 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHAT! 51 
Respected Str, 


Events in life will take place under the influence of planets. 
The ruling planets at the time of event will indicate the ruling 
planetary periods, 


You have met with an accident on 23-/7-1963. The day is 
Tuesday. The constellation ruling on that day is Magha whose 
lord is Kethu. Lord of the week day is Mars. Mars is poisted in 
the constellation of Sun and is in the sub of Saturn. Rahu is 
posited in Magha in your horoscope. Therefore you must be 
running the major period of Sun or saturn or Rahu and the sub 
period of Sun or Saturn or Rahu. Actually you are under the 
major period of Saturn in the sub peiod or Rahu. You are not 
under the sub-period of Jupiter on 23-7-1963 as told by you. 


Now your question is why Saturn and Rahu inflicted you with 
accident and fine. 


Constellations are the important divisions in the zodiac to 
read the results of a horoscope. These divisions wil modify the 
results of planets. A planet may be benefic or malefic. 
sometimes they give contrary results. These results depend 
upon the lordship of the constellation the benefic or malefic 
planet is posited. Thus a benefic planet offers maletic results 
and a malefic planet bestows benefic events. 


Your saturn is poisted in constellation, Rohini. Rohini is ruled 
by Moon. And Moon is the lord of 12th house, 12th house 
indicates expenditure, losses, imprisonment, hospitalisation, 
bodily injury, mental agonny etc. Therfore the planet Saturn, 
the major lord is capable of giving the above results. 


Rahu is posited in Magha ruled by Kethu and is in the sub of 
Jupiter. Jupiter holds lordship of Sth house and 8th house. 
Therefore the sub-lord, Rahu, is capable of giving results of 5th 
house and 8th house. 8th house indicates accidents, 
punishment, loss of money, misfortune etc. 


Therefore the major lord and the sub-lord are strong enough 
to offer you accident, bodily injury, fine and punishment. 


or RETROGRADE PLANT 


Again you met with an accident on 11-4-66. The day is 
Monday The ruling by Moan Mooia is ruled by Kethu. Therefore 
the planetary peiod which will be in operation at the time ofthe 
accident must have relation with the constellations of Moon and 
Kethu. The major period of Saturn and the sub period of Jupiter 
is in operation at the time of accident actually The major lord, 
saturn has relation with Moon and the sub-lord Jupiter has 
relation with the node. 


The major lord is to inflict accidents 


Jupiter, the sub-lord has posited in his own constellation. He 
holds the lordship of 5 and 8. Therefore strong, exalted and 
Vargoltama Jupiter is capable of giving accident. Thus the event 
took place. 


Now you desire to know whether there are any accidents in 
Store of you. My answer is yes’. 


The coming planetary period belongs to Mercury. He rules 
for 17 years. He is also exalted and is posited in Chitra ruled by 
Mars, the significator of accident and is also in the sub of Rahu 
who Is to inflict you with accidents. Mercury is malefic lord to 
you. Therefore the accidents you will come across during the 
period of Mercury are even more serious affecting your health 
and body 


In the immediate future during the major period of Mercury 
and the sub period of Mercury and the sub period of mercury is 
quite capable of causing accidents. Planets Kethu, Rahu, Jupiter 
and Moon are unfavourable placed and therefore their sub sub 
periods are eligible to affect accidents and cause ill health, 
hospitalization and bodily injury. 


The sub period of Kethu runs from 11-2-68 to 28-4-66, 
The sub sub period of Moon runs from 4-10-68 to 16-12-68. 
The sub sub period of Rahu runs from 7-2-69 to 17-6-69. 
The sub sub period of Jupiter runs from 18-6-69 to 12-10- 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 59 
These periods are quile capable of causing accidents. 


The luminaries are the exciting planets. Where the native is 
under the sub sub period of Kethu, Sun transits Revathi ruled 
by Mercury, the major lord, between 31-3-68 and 13-4-68. He 
will be in the sub of Kethu, the sub sub lord. on 2-4-68 and 3-4- 
68. These two dates are significant to cause accidents. 


When the native is under the sub sub period of Moon, Sun 
transits sign Virgo, ruled by the major lard and also constellation, 
Hasta, ruled by sub sub lord and exactly reaches the sub of 
Moon on 28" and 29" September, 1968, indicating dangerous 
dates. Again he transits Jyeshta and reaches the sub of Moon 
on 8-12-68 and 9-12-68. These dates also are bad. 


When the native is under the sub-sub period of Rahu, Sun 
transits Arudra ruled by Rahu in sign Gemini, ruled by Mercury, 
during the 2™ half of June and exactly reaches the sub of Rahu 
on 22", 23° and 24" June, 1969. These dates are also 
dangerous. 


When the native is under the sub-sub period of Jupiter, Su 
transits Punarvasu and sign Gemini and reaches the sub of 
Jupiter on 6" and ?“July 1969. These dates are bad. 


It is advised that the native should not drive vehicles 
particulary should not drive vehicles particularly on Tuesdays 
and Wednedays as a precautionary measure. One cannot 
dodge his fate Destiny is unalterable propitation offers complete 
protection in at -ordance with destiny. 


Just like exalted Jupiter, exalted Mercury is also to inflict you 
with accidents, bodily injuries and hospitalization. 


HOW THE 
RULING PLANETS WORK? 


The method of prognosticating a future event by the stellar 
system of Krishnamurti Padhdhati is indeed unique. The 
method properly applied yields accurate results. The late 
Professor Krishnamurti, the master genius in astrology, also 
discovered the efficacy of the Ruling Planets which help an 
astrologer to predict a future event with precision to the date, 
hourand minute. 


A child birth in our family was expected in the month of 
November 1980 some time during the first week. | was anxious 
fo know in advance the dale of delivery so as to make the 
necessary arrangemints. | applied the method of Ruling Planets 
for the purpose. Indeed | have been a student of the steller 
system since five years. Details are given below:- 


Latitude _13°N 
Longitude 79° — 517°E 


Date 21-10-1980 

Day Tuesday, Mars 

otar Poorvabhadram (Jupiter) 
Rasi Aquarius (Saturn) 

Lagna Taurus (Number 23) Venus 
Star Sun 


sun Lord Rahu 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 55 
Aspects: 

(a) Jupiter in the fifth house aspects the horary lagna. 

(6) The same Jupiter aspects the Allth cusp. 
(c) Mars aspects the Moon (4h aspect). 
(d) 


d) Mars also aspects the horary lagna. 


Analysis: 


The lagna coincides with a fixed sign. So the delivery of child 
would not be immediate. As the lagna receives Jupiter's 
beneficial rays the delivery would be normal. The Ruling Planets 
are Rahu,Venus, Sun, Saturn, Jupiter and Mars. Study the 
longitude of the sun. The sun traverses in Rahu star upto 6" 
November. Thereafter it moves to Jupiter star in Libra sign. Rahu 
is posited in Cancer which is 12'to th 8" cusp. So Rahu would 
not speed up the event. Jupiter is an occupant of the 5" bhava. 
50 it is logical to decide that Sun's transit in Jupiter star (Visaka) 
would bring the matter to fruition. That period of transit is 
between 6-11-80 and 79-11-80. 


| shall pinpoint the date which with reference to Moon. The 
lagna sub lord is Rahu. So one would look for Rahu's star in 
the signs of the ruling planets. But Rahu is posited in Cancer. 
So it deputises for Moon the depositor. But Moon is placed in 
aquarius. Mars is in Scorpio aspects it strongly. Moon is 
changeable by nature and reflects the strength of its depositor 
or aspector. Here Mars is its aspector. S50 Mars comes to the 
picture as strong fructifier of the event. As Saturn is another 
strong ruling planet, Mars and Saturn together in a rasi should 
be excited by the Moon in a stellar position. Two such sensitive 
Stellar position are as below: - 


a) 9-11-80, Sunday, Anuradha in Scorpio 


b) 15-11-80, Saturday-Dhanishta in Aquarius. The date of 
15-11-80 was predicted in advance. 


56 RETROGRADE PLANT 


The Sun's longitude in the Moon sub corroborates the days 
as 15-11-80 Saturday,. Dhanishta. Indeed, the birth took place 
on 15-11-80, Saturday, when Libra was rising in the east 


ltis an illustration of how aspects on KP ruling planets modify 
their nature and function. Glory to the theory of scientific stellar 
astrology propounded by the greatest of our astrological genius 
in recent times. 


Good Luck. 


DIRECTIONAL METHOD OF 
TIMING OF EVENTS 


Progression is one of the methods followed by the astrologers 
to judge the nature of the results of a person and also the time 
of the event. 


In the text-books published by the various authors, one can 
learn the results offered by a planet forming an aspect to the 
Various cusps of the houses or by a planet while progressing, 
forming an aspect with a planet inthe horoscope of a person. 
But none had discussed systematically the results of the lord 
of a particular house forming an aspect with the lord of another 
house in the horoscope. Suppose one is born in Aries (Mesha) 
ascendant; Mars progresses. Mars Is lord of 1 and 8 It can 
form aspect with ifs original position and also with other planets 
S50 one is to read the results as follows: 


a) If Mars aspects Sun to Aries (Mesha) lagna borns, (i) 
The Lord of 1 forming aspect with the lord of 5, and (ii) 
The Lord of 8 aspecting the lord of 5. 


b) IfMars aspects Moon, 
(i) The Lord of 1 aspects the lord of 4 
c) IfMars aspects, by progression, Mars radical position:- 
(1) The Lord of 1 aspecting the lord of 1 
(ii) The Lord of 8 aspecting the lord of 1. 
(iii) The Lord of 1 aspecting the lord of 8. 
(iv) The Lord of 8 aspecting the lord of 8 
d) i*Mars aspect Mercury, 
(i) The Lord of 1 aspecting the lord of 3 


o8 RETROGRADE PLANT 


(1) The Lord of 8 aspecting the lord of 3. 
(iii) The Lord of 1 aspecting the lord of 6. 
(iv) The Lord of 8 aspecting the lord of 6. 


Inthe same way, the results should be read for Venus, Saturn 
and Jupiter. 


As the lordship of house can thoroughly change the nature 
of the planet, let us discuss the results of the aspects taking 
the lordship of various houses. 


Suppose Jupiter is the lord of 12 What can it indicate? It 
shows withdrawal of money from the bank. If Jupiter forms 
favourable aspect with Venus, normally one will predict most 
beneficial results But for Aries-borns, it threatens loss and many 
other difficulties, such as visiting hospital due to the illness of 
the wife or partner in business. (12" house is the 6" to 7" wife.) 


Therefore the correct method is to judge by taking the lordship 
of a planet Benefics by nature will prove to be the worst evils 
for some and the malefics by nature will offer luck to some. 


One should not decide the result merely by the name cf a 
planet. All Ramas are not ideals for character. All Krishnas do 
not mingle freely with women. How many Krishnas there are 
who remain unmarried as no girl likes them. 


Therefore, always consider which planet by progression 
forms an aspect and note which houses are ruled by it. Then 
systematically note down as explained above. 


(2) Then the extent to which the native can gain or loss 
depends on the strength of the planets in the birth chart. The 
radical chart is the roct in the soil on which depends the growth 
of the planet 


(3) The environment of the native is to be included while 
judging a chart. It is similar to the fertility used. Two people may 
have the same, identical aspects One will be very fortunate 
while the other will enjoy only to some extent. This is because 
the former is horn in fortunate circumstances and the latter 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHAT| 59 
under the very lash of tyranny and oppression. 


(4) If the birth horoscope (radix) does not promise fortune, 
no aspect by progression can permanently secure if to the 
native. So also any adverse result. That is, if the birth chart 
shows good constitution and long life, do not conclude that the 
first attacks made upon it will be fatal or anxious- the native 
may have some sufferings and get over them. 


(5) Aspects among the planets maybe found to be formed in 
a particular week. It is not necessary that the results will manifest 
inthat week itself. Moon alone moves fast. Its aspects and the 
results indicated by its aspects will be enjoyed in the same 
month. But other planets move slowly. Hence the period when 
the results will be actually enjoyed is to be modified by adopting 
the following methea:- 


Suppose Sun, by progression, forms a harmonious 
beneficial aspect with Jupiter owning good houses and you 
expect increase in income and improvement in status, say in 
the second week of December 1965 by careful working. Then 
take the Ephemeris for 1965 and find out the nearest date when 
sun by tansit forms a favourable aspect with Jupiter. That is 
the date on which the progressed Sun's aspect to Jupiter will 
operate 


Similary, take the example of Jupiter owning favourable 
houses forming good aspect, by progression, with Mercury and 
you look for sudden gains by lottery or agency or receipt of the 
accumulated commission amount. Then you will enjoy the 
results when there is good aspect between Mercury and Jupiter 
by transit near about the time when the progressed aspect is in 
operation. The effect of the progressed aspect will be most 
noticeable when the same is supported or accentuated by 
transits of similar nature. 


Therefore, the planets having good aspects by progression 
should also form good aspects (need not be the same: trine 
aspect by progression will mature by semisextile aspect by 
transit) by transit {gocharam) also. 


60 RETROGRADE PLANT 


(6) Note which planet forms an aspect while progressing 
with a planet in the birth chart. The planet which is aspected 
indicates the nature of the results. The progressing planet. (i.e., 
aspecting planet shows the source through which the results 
is enjoyed). 


Moon 28" 


suppose the following is the chart and an aspect is being 
formed between progressing Sun radical Moon. Sun was in 4° 
in Simha (Leo). Moon was in 28° in Kataka (Cancer) Therefore 
at the age of 16 % Sun prog. formed 2 %. Aspect with Moon 
radical. At the age of 24, prog. Sun formed semisextiie or 30° 
aspect wilh radical Moon. 


Results enjoyed were: 
At the age of 16 Vi younger brother went out for study. 


b) At the age of 24 to the native, the native gained monetarily, 
through younger brother. 


At the age of 16 Vi, Sun who is the Lord of 3 (for younger 
bro'her} formed evil aspect with the lord of 2 (for family and 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHAT| 61 


finance). So separation from family and expenses due to 
younger brother's studies, his life in a foreign place is shown 


At the age of 24 to the native, Sun lord of 3 formed good 
aspect with lord of 2 (finance). So the native gains money 
through the younger brother 2” house to the native is vyaya 
(loss) to the younger brother as tt is 12 to 3. 


Thus , Moon as lord of 2 shows income or expenses in the 
family, union or separation from the family. Sun as lord of 3 
denotes that the result is due to the younger brother. i.e., income 
or expenses through him short journey to the native etc., and 
also separation or re-union of the younger brother. 


50 also if the lord of 11 forms beneficial aspects by 
progression to the lord of 2. it promises income through the 
elder brother or through friends..11" house for elder brother 
and friends) tn the case the lord of 11 is Mars. He Is also the 
lord of 6 Therefore, one is to say that the gain may be form the 
elder brother or friends or from a maternal uncle or by Borrowing 
(6" house), It may be the elder brother or friend may lend money 
or the maternal uncle may help the native So it should be noted 
from which house Mars by prong: forms this aspect. If it 
progresses in Thulam (Libra} 10° and forms quintile (72°) aspect 
with radical Moon, it should be taken that the maternal uncle 
will render help as Thulam (where Mars progresses) is 12™to 
the 6* house. But if Mars progressess in Meena from 8° to 28° 
and forms trine (120°) with radical moon in Kataka (Cancer) 
28°, it indicates that either an elder brother or friend will give 
monetary assistance to the native or they would give him an 
appointment as mars progresses inthe 10m house. Thus, note 
the houses over which the planet, forming the aspect, rules 
From the ownership of the houses note who will give the result, 
or through which source you gain or lose. 


Ifthe same Mars were to progress in Meena 13° and form 
sesquiquadrate (135°) aspect with the radical Moon, through 
an elder brother or a friend your income ts reduced or you wit 
meet uncommon expenses through them. 


62 RETROGRADE PLANET 


Thus, though an aspect maybe formed on a particular date 
by progression, yet the said aspect fertilises and blooms into 
physical manifestation in the weekwhen the progressed planet 
by transit forms a similar aspect (Not necessarily the same as 
the one formed by progression) with the planet in the radix. 


In the foregoing example though a good aspect may be 
formed on a particular date according to progression by 
progressed Marsto radical Moon, yetthe effect ofsuch a good 
aspect will be apparent only in the week when Mars by transit 
forms a good aspect (need not be the same as the one formed 
by progression; with the planet Moon in the natal or birth chart. 


Applying aspect 


An applying aspect is always strong. M brings new 
experiences in life It becomes more and more powertul. It may 
be either good or bad aspect. The aspect is nearing completion. 
These effects begin to wane off slowlyas the aspect separates. 
Separating bad aspect from any evil planet is advantageous 
l.e., evil will disappear. Separating aspect afteragood aspect 
also indicates that the jubilant spint will fade away slowly. There 
is no further cause to enhance the pleasure. 


lustration: 


Mars 20" 


sun 26 Lagna 


KRISHNAMURTI PAGHDHATI 64 


Eg: Sun forms a good aspect with the lord of 7 Mars to a 
Thula Lagna native. Sun is lord of 11 and Mars is lord of 2 and 
7. Hence when sun applies good aspect with Mars, say about 
even 1-1/2 years prior to the exact (partile) aspect date, the 
native will have pleasurable pursuits, make friendship with a 
girl and every day till the date of culmination of the exact aspect, 
he will enjoy due to frequent contacts with the said girl and 
dreams (5'"" house) Mars in 5. This is an applying aspect. 


After that date when sun progressing in 20° Dhanus 
(Sigittarius) forms sextile (60°) aspect with radical Mars (.e., 
Sun lord of 11 with Mars lord of 7 occupying 5" house) and then 
commences to separate form the saextile aspect, then within 
tha period of 1-1/2 years gradually, imagination, dreams, etc, 
will end, frequent contact with the girl will get reduced pleasure 
is also not measured on the same scale and the sweetness of 
the milk disappears and slowly becomes either rancid or flat 
and insipid. 


An applying aspect keeps one either cheerful and buoyant if 
the aspect is good or much frightened if the aspect is bad. 
similarly, a separating aspect after a good aspect shows fading 
away of one’s benefits or pleasure. To put it blunily, applying 
aspect is similar to “Mappillat Azhaippu" “Welcome to son-in- 
law’ on the eve of marriage; separating aspect, is similar to the 
feeling for the same person, a few days after marriage 


Important 


separation of a planet from a malefic and its application to 
benefic gives health, happiness, expansion, etc., after a 
struggle, If by progression a planet (lord of 2 or 11 forms evil 
aspect with lord of 10)forms a bad aspect and due to that one 
is kept under suspension from service, then when the planet 
further progresses and forms a good aspect, he will be 
reinstated in service. 


When the planet applies and forms bad aspect. he is terribly 
afraid and is put into lot of troubles, worry and ill-repute Orice 
the aspect (exact aspect) is over and ¢ gets separated, the 


64 RETROGRADE PLANT 


native gains strength of mind gradually and all matters tend to 
take a favorable course and when the planet applies to a good 
aspect, encouraging news will be received and at the time of 
the exact good aspect he will join duty. 


But if a planet by progression separates after a good aspect 
and applies to an evil aspect, misfortune will overtake the native. 
lf by progression, a series of good aspects are formed, one 
can definitely expect luck after luck, one following the other so 
that for a long period, without any interruption, one enjoys the 
beneficial results. But if by progression a series of bad aspects 
are formed, then one will suffer much due to a series of 
misfortune. 


If there is a good aspect, then a bad one followed by a good 
one, and then again bad and so on, then the native's life will be 
like a wheel like day and night, alternately enjoying good and 
experiencing bad. 


(fa planet separates from a malefic and applies to ancther 
malefic aspect, the evil is augmented double fold and worst 
experiences will be undergone like a person on his way home 
from office being pick-pocketed on the salary day and finding a 
battalion of creditors waiting for him to return home. 


Aspects to the cusps of houses are very important, but if the 
birth lime ts not very correct, they may be omitted, otherwise 
they wilt only mislead 


A difference of every four minutes in the birth time changes 
the cups by one degree, but such a difference of 4 minutes or 
So does not perceptibly change the planetary position. Therefore 
, wise astrologers pay more attention to aspects between the 
planets, 


Of aspects to cups, the conjunction is of most importance, 
especially with the cusps of the 1%, 4", 7" and 10 houses 
called the ‘angle's of the chart. 


The directional systems of the west have a basis in cornmon, 
namely that one degree movement or progress measures to 


KRISHNAMURT! PAGRDHAT| 65 


year of lime of life, hough they differ in the manner of deployment 
of the degree measure. There is the system of symbolic 
Directions which employs the one degree measure in a 
symbolic sense by uniformly adding to the birth positions of the 
planets as many degrees as are denoted by the number of 
years elapsed since the year of birth. Then there is the sepharial's 
system which finds it facile to employ the mean motion of the 
sun (59'-8") in his primary directional system, (Incidentally, it 
may be mentioned that in this system the planets and house 
cusps are not only progressed in the direct or natural order of 
the zodiacal signs but are also progressed in the converse or 
reverse order of the zodiac,called converse Directions or 
Regressions which are apparently as effective and reliable as 
the forward directions or progressions. An allusion to 
regressions occurs in Ramadayalu’s "Sanketanidhi" vide slokas 
10 and 11, Sanketa VII, which lends support to the view that a 
day is equal to a year of life, the basis of the directional systems 
popularized by Alan Leo and sepharial). 


The entire structure of the western system of Directions and 
progressions seems to rest on biblical authority. There is a 
strong undercurrent of unity between the directional systems 
of the West and the Indian Vimshottari or Nakshatra Dasa 
system which gives most accurate results and, on that account, 
the most complete system of predicting events denoted in the 
nativity or birth chart. In the Vimshottari system, a period of 120 
years is represented by a trisected are of the zodiac comprised 
between the point of commencement of Aswini nakshatra and 
the end point of Aslesha nakshatra, extending to 120° giving the 
measure of 1 * for a year From the fact that the Sun takes a day 
to more 1° in the Ecliptic, tt would seem that the Nakshatra 
Dasa system is solar based like the Day-for-a-year system 
propounded by Alan Leo The directional systems of the west 
are of recent origin, while the Vimshottari system has existed 
from the time of antiquity being attributed to the venerable Sage 
Parasara, father of the great Sage Vyasa who wrote the 
Mahabharata The fundamentals on which the directional 
methods of the west rest are undoubtedly true, but the manner 


66 RETROGRADE PLANT 


of reading the results requires to be revised, thal is say the 
system of reading should not be confined to directional aspects 
alone. The planets are constantly on the progress, and 
irrespective of whether there is any aspect (including 
conjunction) or not by direction, the planets progress through 
certain, houses and occupy certain zodiacal points which are 
co-ruled by one or move more planets as the sign, star. sub 
lords, etc., Logically, the method of prediction should also take 
into account the zodiacal degree through which the planet 
progresses and the nature of influence of that part which the 
progressed planet will activate. The utility of the western 
directional methods would be greatly enhanced if the results 
are read in the manner enunciated in Krishnamurti Padhdhati 
and by following the sidereal or Nirayana Zodic for predictive 
purposes. 


Good Luck. 


SIGNIFICANCE OF RULING 
PLANETS IN K-P.SYSTEM 
IN GETTING A JOB 


Part 1 
Q. When will I get a Job’ 


On 2.3.2001 Friday night my friend Mr. Mani called me 
overphone to know about the employment for his daughter-in- 
law. He said that she is weeping due to no results have come 
so far, even though done well in the interview. She also said 
that she has attended about 10 or 15 interviews with no results 
so far. | immediately asked here to give a number within 249 
Keeping in mind the question. She unhesitatingly told the number 
156. The time of asking was 20.44 hrs IST | told her that | will 
call her back after calculating with the help of ruling planets. It 
was Saturday and the time | took for calculation was 20.44 hrs 
al 13N tat 080.10E long. 


The ruling Planets and the charcters are as 
follows. 


Day Lord Friday VN 

Rasi Lord Taurus Vn 

Star Lord Rohini 12.35.28 Mh 

Sub Lord Rahu 
Lagna Rise-Lord Virgo Mercury 
Lagna Rise Star Chitra 25.12.25 
Mars 


Sub Lord Rahu 


GA RETROGRADE FLANT 


oa. —— —— 


] noted that Moon was in 9" house and himself lord of 11 and 
Moon in its own star and in the sub of Rahu who is in 10" house. 
| will be answering the question favourably to her. (note Rahu in 
the sub of Moon a ruling planet and 11" house owner) Rahu 
also connected to lagna as it is deposited in Gemini - lord 
Mercury -which is lagna (virgo) for the time ! have taken up for 
calculation. (Rahu deputizing Mercury being in Gemini). 
Moreover the ruling planets are fast moving planets the results 
wil be very soon. None of the planets are retrogate. By 
progression {started moving the Moon to Cancer sign mercury 
star (Ayilyam) and the day should be a Mercurian day. 
Wednesday. (Why? Mercury in the star of Moon lord of 11) 
Mercury aspected by Moon $" aspect trine aspect. 


Satum 
Jupiter 
Moon 


20.44 IST 


on 2.3.2001 
Mercury 13°N 080 10C 


Moreover Mercury in the star of Moon and sub of Sun who is 
in 6” and in the star of Rahu in 10" house. 


On 07.03.2001, Wednesday after 09.00 a.m. she will get 
the order and will join same day. | telephoned here at 9.00 p.m. 
on 2.3.2001 about the same and asked her to give the results 


KRISHNAMUART! PAGRGRAT| 6g 


she telephoned me on 7" March 2001 night that she got the 
orders over p; lone at 09.37 hrs and joined at 14.20 hrs same 
day She also confirmed that the orders by post received by 
her Father-in-law at 14.20 hrs exactly. 


| checked the Moon's position at 09 37 hrs and at 14.20 hrs 
on 7.3.2001 Moon was in Moon sign cancer Mercury slar Mercury 
sub, Venus sub sub at 09.37 hrs. 


At 14,20 hrs Moon was in cancer sign Mercury star Venus 
sub Mars subsub. Note Mars is lord of the lagna rise at the time 
of calculating and also in third house communications. It was 
SO accurate. 


Getting a Job 
(Verification through K.P. Horary System 
also) - Part Il 


(Q) When will I get a job? 


l was very eager to check the same by actual calculation for 
the given number so that | can give the results in full and I took 
up for calculation at 00.17 hrs midnight on 2/3-3-2001. | 
presumed that the reason to work it out for the given number 
eventhough | have informed her earlier the results with the help 
of ruling planets was due to Moon-saturn conjuction 11 deg in 
between in Taurus and aspect of Mars - 7" aspect to 9" house 
and Mars in 3'* and also aspecting Sun by 4" (aspect Sun being 
lord of 12, 3", 9'" and 12m houses - astrology), a Punaraphoo 
for astrological calculation - note the position of Moon and Saturn 
al 20.44 hrs. Moon in 120 35M 28s in Taurus and Saturn in 
010 31M.00S in Taurus around 11 deg difference) 


The planetary position and the ruling planets are as follows 
at 00.17 hrs midnight of 2/3-3-2001 Friday night at 13 N Lat 
080.10 Long. 


Ruling planet at 00 17 hrs on 2/3.3.2001 


#0 RETAQGAADE PLANT 


Day Lord Friday Venus 
Rasi Taurus Venus 
Star Lord’ Rohini Moon 

Sub Lord Jupiter 

LrseLrod ScolSD16M Mars 


LA. Stariord Saturn 

L.R. Sublord Jupiler 

Note : Mercury trine, aspect to Jupier and Moon. 
Kethu representing Jupier being in Dhanus. 


Cuspal Position Planetary Position 


Asc Sco 1253.20 SatfRahy So Agu s18.27.57 Rahu/Moon 
fi Sag 11.5545 KeiMer Moon Tau 14.33.40 Moondlup 
ll = Cap 12.22.36 Mar/Rahu Mars Soo 14.17.28 Sat/Rahu 
Mo Aqu 1438.15 RabwkKel Mer Cap 22.5541. Moon/Sun 
V Pis 16.4604 Mer/Mercy dp vas 09.3254 Sunn 

Vi Ari 16.19.19 ¥n/Mn Vn Pig 23.11.31 Mer/Mn 

Vil Tw 1253.20) Mn/Rahu St Tar 01.34.07 Suniup 

¥Ill = Gem 11.5545 Rahu/Sal Rahu = Gem 1841.39 Raqu/Mn 
K Can 12.2236 SalMars Kelhu Sag 1841.39 VinRahu 

x Leo (14.38.15 Vni¥n 

4 Vir 16.48.15  Moon/Sat 

Xl = Lib) 16.19.19 Rahn 


Dasa balance moon dasa 6y-6m-28days 


Analysis — 1 checked the 10" cusp sublord Venus in 5* than 
in the star of Mercury placed in third house and Mercury being 
lord of 11 and connected to 7" and 9" through star and Mercury 
in the sub of Sun in 4" lord of 10". Mercury also sub lord of 
second cusp. 


14'"" cusp sub lord Saturn is in 6" house and in the star of 
oun lord of 10m house and Saturn conjoined with Jupiter lord of 
two. 


B. So employement is definite. 


B. Significators of house. 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 71 
7 house occupied by Kethu none in Kethu star 
Jupiter lord of 2-none in Jupiter star take Kethu and Jupiter. 


6" house - Saturn and Jupiter in 6" house-Mars in Saturn 
star and none in. 


Jupiter star Mars owner of 6" house and none in Mars star. 
Mars in lagna. So take Saturn, Jupiter and Mars. 


10" cusp-none in 10" house-Sun owns it. Saturn and Jupiter 
are in Sun star take Sun, Saturn and Jupiter. 


11" cusp-none in 11" house owner Mercury —oniy Venus in 
Mercury star take Venus, Mercury, Rahu, (Rahu being in Gemini 
represents Mercury). 


Thus planets Kethu, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, 
Mercury and Rahu are significators. 2,6, & 10. 


No.156 


13°N 080010E 
00.17/2/3/03.2001 


Now planets in sub of the significators. 
2° house - in Kethu sub- none in Jup sub Saturn is there. 


6" house - in Saturn sub-none in Saturn sub-note Saturn 
sub of the 11* cusp point. 


ve RETROGRADE PLANT 


10" house - in Saturn sub-none in the sub of Saturn in Jupiter 
sub-only Saturn in the sub of Jupiter 


In Sun sub-only Mercury in the sub of Sun lord of 10" house. 
11™ house - in Venus sub-only Jupiter in Venus sub. 

Rahu representing Mercury being in Gemini. 

Kethu representing Jupiter being in Dhanus 


Mercury trine aspect to Moon by progression. so take Moon 
also. 


Mercury sextile aspect to Venus - 60 deg aspect equal to 
trine aspect now the period of getting job. 


Dasa running Moon dasa Jupiter bhukthi from 1.9.2000. 
Mercury anthra starts from 21.01 2001 and upto 29.03.2001. 


In Mercury anthara Rahu sookshma from 01.03.2001 to 
11.03.2001 


! have taken beneficial planets from the ruling planets and 
the significators put together for dasa, bhukthi and anthra. Moon 
dasa Jupiter bhukthi Mercury anthra Rahu sookshma ts the time 
getting job. 


Moon-ruling planet-Moon dasa taken star lord Jup a strong 
signiticator of 10 and 11 and Mercury in 3 and signifying 9° by 
star Moon and 10 by sub Sun lord of 10" and owner of 11" 
house-Mercury-trine aspect fo Jupiler and Moon by progression. 


Rahu representing Mercury lord of Hand Rahu in sub of 
Moon who is the sublord of 6" cusp. Rahu trine aspect from 
oun lord of 10 thereby signifying tenth and eleventh houses. 
Rahu sookshama taken. 


B. Transit - luminaries Moon transits in Moon sign cancer 
Ayilyam star- Mercurian star and Sun transits in Aquarius - 
Kumbha (Saturn sign) Jupiter star ¢ bnukthi natha) and in Saturn 
sub (322d, 42m to 3239d43am on 7 3.2001. on Wednesday. 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHATI 3 


she actually got the orders overphone on 7.3.2001 at 09.37 
hrs and joined at 14.20 hrs and the actual orders by post at 
14.20 hrs (a signed document) received by her father-in-law 
as predicted by me. 


This is the wonder of K.P.system and it does not speculate 
but authentic to specify the period and the event to occur. 


Thanks to K.P system. and late Sri K.S.K. 


| place this article on the lotus feet of lord Mahaganapathi 
who bestowed the knowledge and to SriK SK. the great "Jothida 
mannan’ - My Manaseega Guru who found the K.Psystem. 


The Significance of Ruling Planets in 
K. P. System 


Q. What is the lagna, when birth thime is not 
known? 


Ruling planets K.P. reveals. I had been to Vaideeswarankoil 
along with my friend to Know about his life through Nadi Jaditham 
on 10.3.2001 a Saturday. Aiter finishing his reading on nadi, my 
friend wanted to know about his wife's life through nadi. He 
dont have the horoscope. But he knows the date of birth and 
place of birth. He don't know the time of birth. The nadi eader 
wanted us to keep ready with the horoscope and other details 
when read the palm leaf. | told him to wait for ten minutes so 
that | can make out the horoscope and keep it ready hoping 
that { can fix the birth time through ruling planets prevailing al 
that time. The nadi reader taken the thumb impression and other 
details to take out the nadi. It was exactly at 15.20 hrs 1*% at 
11 deg n.lat 079.43 e long on 10.3.2001. Ruling planets are as 
follows. 


Day lord Saturday Saturn 
Rasi lord Virgo Mercury 
05d.37m.20s 


#4 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Star lord Uthiram Sun 
Sub lord Mercury 
Lagnarise Cancer Moon 
16D, 23M 
IL.rise star Poosam Saturn 
L.r.sublord Jupiter 
Kethu a node representing Jupiter being in Dhanus. 


Salurn 
Jupiter 


At 15.20 hrs 
on 11°N Lat 


079.43 E 
Aynamsa 23.46 


Analysis : On verifying the ruling planets, she should have 
born on a Wednesday (Mercury sub lord orf the star of the day 
Uthiram). Then | justified that she should have born in Leo sign 
- Simma rasi - Makam, Pooram and Uthiram firsi pada are in 
leo sign. Since Kethu representing Jupiter and Jupiter being 
the sublord of the lagna rise | had taken makam as birth star. 
On verifying the almanac available in the nadi reader’s house | 
checked for the date 20.10.1965. It was a Wednesday Makam 
started and it was there upto midnight (here Kethu played its 
role for Jupiter which is the sub lord of the rising lagna cancer 


KRISHNAMURTI PAGRDHATI #5 


16d 23m). Iltencouraged me a lot to find the lagna of the girl in 
question. 


| fixed two points. 


1. Capricorn sign Moon star Jupiter sub Mercury subsub 
Sun subsubsub. 


2. Cancer sign Saturn star Mercury sub or Sun sub. 
Kethu subsub or Jupiter subsub now | took up for calculation. 
1 .Capricon sign Moon star Jupiter sub Mercury subsub. 


It starts from 14d24m2/s to 14d,29m34s. In that | took Sun 
Sub subsub which starts from 14d29m59.5/7s (Capricorn). 


For which the birth time for birth at coimbatore 11D N lat 
should be as follows Niryana position of lagna Capricorn 
14D29M59.57S and K.P. Ayanamsa for the year 1965 for 
October 23D 6m405 = Sayana 07D46M39.575 equivalent to 
Siderial time of birth 14058M18.99S or 14D58M195 for which 
on calculation the birth time comes to 13hrs 26mits 03 seconds 
IST 1 26pm. IST on 20.10.1965) 


2. Cancer Saturn stars Mercury sub the birth time comes 
beyond midnight. So | dropped the same. And took only 13.26 
hrs IST or 1.26 M as birth time equivalent to 18 nazhigai from 
sunrise at Coimbatore on 20 10.1965 (Sunrise at Coimbatore 
is 06.14 AM) 


God sends the messenger when you look out for some thing 

It was exactly when | wanted to decide the lagna a unknown 
person come to the nadi reader and presented his horoscope 
for reading. As per K.P. when a person enters the concerned 
person should have been bom in the star as per the ruling planets 
prevails at that time. ! immediately told that unknown person 
that he should have born in poosam (Saturn star) in Kataka 
rasi (Moon). His eye brows went up in exclamation and said 
that he was born in Poosam star. 


Note the day lord Saturn and the lagna rise star poosam for 
the time taken see how K.P's rulling planets reveals the fact, 


76 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Now | emphatically said that the lagna of the girl is Capricorn 
14d.29m59.5ts or 14d 30m(284d.30m) and the birth time is 
13hrs 26mts( 1.260m) 


Nolte : Day of birlh Wednesday Mercury a ruling planet 
Rasi - Leo - Sun a ruling Planet 

olar Makam - Kethu (representing - Jupiter a ruling planet) 
Lagna rise - Capricorn - Saturn a ruling planet. 


L.R.star— Thiruvonam — Moon a ruling planet sublord — Jupiter 
a ruling planet sub sub lord - Mercury a ruling planet s.s.sub 
lord Sun a ruling planet. 


Now all the ruling planets suited in the birth. 


Conclusion - The nadi reader finished his reading and gave 
the horoscope to see whether it tallies with the one | have made 
it with the help of ruling planet. No doubt, and to our 
astonishment it was exactly coinciding not only with the lagna 
but also the time of birth for which the nadi reader said that the 
time of birth was 18 nazhighai. Which was a cent percent 
accurate. It is only a shear calculation of K.P. System. Hail K.P 
K.P. followers may please take care in selecting the ruling 
planets so that you will succed in 100% prediction. 


The significance of Ruling Planets & 
Restoration of Power Supply 


It was on Wednesday the 21.02.2001 a Sunny evening al 
4.00 p.m. the electricity went off in my area my wife was cursing 
the E.B. My son immediately telephoned E.B. regarding the 
same and they replied that power will come in another two 
hours. As usual my mind sought for the help of R.P.s in KP. 
system, to find the exact time of power restoration. Meanwhile 
my wile asked to predict about the restoration of power | asked 
her to give 2 number within 249, she gave the number 143, 
libra sign 26D.33M.208, | started working at 16.16h same day 
21.2.2001 at 13D.N.lat 080. 10E Long. 


KRISHNAMURTI PACHDHATI aa 


As per K.P sixth reader page 103 para II, where in SriKSK. 
has said to take the RF’s at the time of erecting the zodiac and 
the lagna sign lord, star lord and sublord of the given number 
and the 11" cusp signlord and stariord, sublord for the event to 
happen, as such | worked out and told my wife thal the power 
will not come at 18,00 hrs but will be delayed further and it will 
come only around 19.03 hours. We waited for 18.00 hours to 
cross first. The power has not come, my heart beat stated 
increasing as the minutes needly started galloping towards 
19.00 hrs. At last at 19 hours in picking up the R.P and the 
event to fall. 


Books used : 
K.P. Ephemeris 2000-2001 
Krishman's lables of Houses 
Horary Number and Cuspal points for Chennai for 2001. 
Published by Sri K.Subramaniam, 


Number given -143 libra sign 26d33m20s Venus sign Jupiter 
star Venus sub 11" cusp Lep 27D58M04S Sun sign Sun star 
Moon sub. 


| took up the queery at 16.16 hours on21.2.2001 Wednesday 
at 13DN Lat. 080.10E long Ayanamsa K.P.23.46 00. The ruling 
planets and the chart are as follows : 


Day Lord - Wednesday Mercury 

Rasi Lord Capricorn Saturn 

star/sublord Capricorn 18d23m33s  Mn/Mercury 
Lagna Rise lord Cancer Moon 

Lagna rise star/sub Cancer 11d35m26s = Sat/Mn 
Lagna of given number 143 Libra 

Star and sub lord of the given no. 143 JupMVvenus 


78 RETROGRADE PLANT 
~— 11! cusp of the given a 
No 143 Leo 26d58m, 04s Sun 

Star and sub lord of the 11" Cusp Sun/Moon 


Note : Moon-Jupiter trine aspect Kethu in Dhanus 
representing Jupiter. 


satum 
* VII 26.33.2D Jupiter 
Vili 25.39 


(X 25.01 
Hah 


V1 26.43 
Venus 


Il 25.01 


Kethu 43.26.33-20 All 26.43 


On analyzing the RP’s Moon and Saturn combination delays 
the event. That is why | told my wife the power will not come as 
per EB but will be delayed further . On scrutiny of lagna of the 
given number and the 11'tuspal points of zodiac, and the event 
has to happen in few hours, | took Sun sign Leo as lagna rise 
forthe event and Venus star and in the sub of Jupiler. As the 
above three planets are deposited in R.P.of the number given 
and the ruling planets of the time taken. 


sun in Rahu star - Jupiter sub- Jup full significator of 41" 
house Venus in Mercury star/Venus sub - Ven in 5" house 
pleasurable persuits Fan/AC/T.V/ Radio etc. comforts. Venus 
sub lord of the lagna and 5" cusp Jupiter - in Sun star and sub 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHAT| 


79 


of Venus - Jupiter is the strongest significator of 71 house. | 
took Moon sub sub because Moon is the sublord of the 71" 
cusp and Moon in its own star since Mercury is retrogate | 
dropped Mercury and took Moon in full Moon is also a strong 
R.P at the time of judgement the calculations are as follows: 


Cuspal Position 


Asc hb 
ll oco 
tH sad 
Iv Cap 
¥ Adu 
¥I Pis 
VII Ari 
Vill = Tay 


26.53.20 
29.93.19 
25.01.24 
79.98.30 
27.58.04 
26.43.02 
26.33.20 
26.39 19 


Ix Gem 25.01.19 


Jupfven 


Mer / Rah 


Ven! Mer 


Mars/Rahu 


Jup¥en 
Mer/Sat 
VernKat 
Mer‘Rah 
J up/Rer 


sun lagna leo fram 
Star Venus from 

Jup sub from 
Moon sub sub from 


Planatary Position 


ein 
Moon 


Mars 


Hahu 
Kelhu 


120.00.00 
1333.20.00 
1400.06.40 
1411.22.14 to 1411.31.07 


09.04.55 
18.23.33 
09.38.00 
22.18.38 
08.37.14 
19.31.21 
00,58,20 
19.10.39 
19.10.39 


RaniJup 
Mcon'Mer 
Sat/Ver 
MoonVen 
oun/¥en 
Mew¥en 
SuvRah 
Hah/‘Moon 
VenRah 


| calculated the time (IST) for the lagna to rise at the east for 
Leo 21D 22m148 using the Krishman’s K.P Tables of house 
and found the time exactly 18h.02m.40s. ! said the power will 
resotre af 19hrsO3 mis IST. To our surprise the power restored 
exactly al 19h.02m.40seca 100% sure calculalion of RP's in 
K.P. system readers may ask for what about the other ruling 
planets namely Saturn, Moon, Mercury ® and Kethu. | checked 
the Moon position for the time 19.02.30 hrs IST by progression. 
Mioon was in Capricorn sign (Saturn) Moon star (Thiruvonam) 
and in sub of Kethu and subsub of Venus le. Capricorn 
19d45m43s Saturn sign/Moon star/Ketu sub/ Venus sub sub 
(Kethu deputizing Jupiter being in Dhanus), in this way the ruling 
planets tobe taken for fruitification of the event. I place this article 
on the lotus feet of Lord Mahaganapathi who bestowed me the 
knowledge and my manaseega Guru SriK.S.K, the great 
K.P. founder. 


80 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Editor's note: 


AS per our guruji Shri K.S.K at the judgement of R.P.’sthe 
Moon's position will indicates his birth lagna position and the 
lagna position indicates his Moon position at the time of his 
birth. This is also confirmed once again in this article. Hats of 
Sri. K.S.K and his marvellous findings. 


EDUCATIONAL ASPECT OF 
KRISHNAMURTI PAPDHATI 


In this article | am focusing on educational aspect both at 
graduate and master level. 


Society is changing with unprecedented rapadity. New 
technologies are not only transferring working atmosphere but 
also offering new ways of learning. Nowadays, for instance, 
nobody has job any more every one has a career. Education in 
the new technological world has playing a_ pivotal role right 
from the lower level to higher level of studies. In this competitive 
world, everybody is striving hard to secure graduation or PG. 
degrees. 


The curriculum prepared according to Universily norms 
contains a selection from the present knowledge that is indeed 
to be useful in the future. The existance of information 
technology, Bio-Medical Technology and setting up of Numerous 
Engineering as well as Medical College has made wide choice 
for the native to choose the proper education in specialized 
branch of his own choice. 


The invention of sub theory by our Guruji Prof. K.s. 
Krishnamurti has made the Astrological Science in a simple 
and crystal clear subject for the predictive tool. According to sri 
K.5.K. for any graduate education one has to asses from the 
4™ house and its sublord 


Ifthe sublord of the 4" cusp signifies 11 along with 6" house 
the native will be very competitive and will secure a good 
percentage in his education. 


ifthe 4" cuspal sublord when connected to 8 along with 
2,10,11, he will complete the degree with obstacles. 


82 RETROGRADE PLANT 


lf the 4" cuspal sublord when connected to only 3 and t2 
then he will not complete his education. 


lfthe 4" cuspal sublord when connected to 3 cusp along 
with 10 or 11 then one will slay in hostel and complete the 
education. 


Now-a-days introduction of correspondence education 
through distance mode from various national and International 
University has given an opportunily for the students to complete 
the degree. For this we have to assess from 4th; cuspal sublord 
that is ifthe 4° cuspal sublord signification 3, 9 or 12 without 
any connection 4 and 10 then one will study through 
correspondence to gel graduate degree. 


Here are the few astrological signification of the planets and 
Zodiac Science for judging education (refer table 1} Table 2 
shows the combination of planets and /odiac science for 
assessing the graduale degree course. 


Note : For assessing the higher education or Master's degree 
consider the same combination of planets and Zodiac science. 
In this case we have to judge from 9" cusp and its sublord. 


Astrological Signification of Planets for 
education 
Planets Description 


Sun Politics, Forestry, Zoology, Medicine, Administration, 
Biomedical Science, Administrativa Management, 
Bio-medical technology 


Moon Botany, Marine, Agriculture, Medicine, Horticulture, 
Psychology, Home Science, Sociology, Zoology, 
Nursing and Politics, Bio-medical technology, Hotel 
management. 


Mars Metallurgy, Chemistry, Medicine and Surgery, 
Military Science, Geology, Logic, Fire, Explosion, 
Electricity and Engineering, Production, 


KRISHNAMURATI PADHDHAT! 83 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 


Rahu 


Ketu 


Managmenet, Engineering Management. 


Mathematics, Commerce, Literature, Languages, 
sciences, Arts, Aviation, Journalism and 
Communication, Astrology, Astronomy, Writing, 
Education and Artsmanship, Management 
Education, Marketing Management 


Education, Law, Banking, Philosophy, Sanskrit, 
Religion, Spiritualism and Vedas, Personal 
Management 


Aesthetic subjects, Poetry, Fine arts, Sexology and 
sociology, Hotel Management, Financial 
Management, Fashion Technology, Computer 
science, Music Technology or T.V. 


English, Politics, History, Philosophy, Mechanics, 
Engineering, Arsmanship and Architecture, Mining, 
Metallurgy, Leather technology, Labour Laws, Vastu, 
Career Programs. 


Electronics, Computer Science, Toxicology, 
Psychology, Medicine. Political Science, 
Photography, Bio-technology 


Metaphysical subjects, Occultism, Mysticism, 
Philosophy, Spiritualism and Black art, Reiki. 


Astrological Signification of Signs for 


Education 
Zodiac Description 
Aries Engineering, Metallurgy, Technology, Science of 


Taurus 


Surgery, Computer Hardware technology 


Agriculture, Economics, Geology, Law, Fine Arts, 
Computer Science, Fashion Technology 


a4 


Gemini 


Cancer 


RETROGRADE PLANT 


Mathematics, Aviation, Journalism, Research in 
Medicine, Technical, Law, Literature. Science. 
Networking, Technology, Railway Engineering, 
Telecommunications Engineering. 


Pure Science, Biclogy, Zoology, History, Social, 
science, Horticulture, Fine Arts, Marine Science, 
Bio-medical technology 


Leo, Psychology Forestry, Law, Medicine, Zoology, Political 


Virgo 


Libra 


Scorpio 


Science, Alternative Medicines. 


Mathematics, Architecture, Analytical science, 
Medicine, Commerce. pharmaceutical 
Management. 


Commerce. Economics, Fine arts. Film industry, 
Law, Computer Science, Electronics, Wood 
Technology 


Chemistry, Toxicology, Military science, Veterinary 
science, Vedas, Vedic management, Internet 
Technology, E-Commerce. 


Capricorn Zoology, Mechanical science, Forestry, Agriculture, 


Architecture, Artisanship, Economics, Course in 
Vastu Shastra 


Aquarius Philosophy, Aviation, Electronoics, Nuclear Physics, 


Pisces 


Rare Subjects. 


Marine, Medicine, Fishery, Philosophy, Literature, 
Metaphysical subjects and Hypnosis 


Combination of Planets and Zodiac sign for 


Assessing 
BACHELORS DEGREE 
SINo. Description Planets Zodiac Sign 
1. Master of Arts Venus, Sat um, Jupiter Taunus, Libra 
2 Administrative studies Gun, Mercury, Jupter Aries, Libra, Capricom 


3. Agriculture Moon. Sun Cancer, Taurus 


KRISHNAMURT | 


SB ARREBRAB SRENRRER RP 


= 
— f2 


a 


Applied Sciance 
Applied Comauting 
Aviation studies 
Adult education 
Ayurvedic medicines 


Bictechnelogy 
Business economics 
Banking Management 
Business studies 
Busi1ess managament 
Biomedical science 
Business administration 
Commerce 

Creative Arts 


Compuler Applications (BCA} 


Sommunciation S 
Journalism 


PADHDHATI 


Jupiler, Mercury, Venus 
Mercury, Venus rah 
Mercury,J.upiter, Mars 
Jupiter, Mercury 

Satur, Sun, Rah, Mars 
Jupiler 

Mars, Sun, Moon, Mercury 
Venus, Mercury, Satur 


Mercun,Satum, Sun, Jupiter 


Mercury, Venus 
Mercury, Jupiler, Saturn 
Jupitar, Mars, Sun 
Mercury, Jupiter, Mars 
Mercury, Jupiter, Moon 
Jupiler, Venus 

Mercury, Venus, Juptier 
Mars, Jupiter, Mercury, 
Venus 


Computer Information Science Yenus, Mercury, Jupiter 


Gompuler Science 
Drama 


Dasign /Design Tech 
Education 
Ecology and environment 
English 
Environmental sciance 
Fashion Technology 
Fine Arts 

i 
Forestry 
Food and Science Tach, 
Fisherey Science 
Health Science 
Home Science 
Hotel Management 
Horticulture 
Hospitality 


HRMAHRD 
Industrial Science 
Interior Design 
Information sciance 


Yenus, Jupiter 


Mars, Yanus, Moon, 
Saturn 


Venus, Mars 

Saturn, Jupiter, Mercury 
Mars, Moon 

saturn, Mercury 
Venus, Jupiler, Moon 
Venus, Mars 


Yenus, Jupiler, Saturn, 
Moon 


Rahu, Sun, Mars 
Moon, Jupiter, Mars 
Moon, Venus 

oun, Jupitar, Mars 
Moon, Jupiter 

Moon, Venus, Mercury 
Moon, Venus, Saturn 
Mercury, Neptune. 
Sun, Moon 

Jupiter, Mercury 

Mars, Jupiter, Mercury 


& 


Sagittarius, Libra, Virgo 
Ubra, Gemini 
Any Signs 


Virgo, Lea 


Lec Cancer, Scorpio 
Gemini,Capncom 

Taurus, GeminiAquanus 
Libra. Gemini 
Gemini 
Lao, Arias 
Aries, Leo, Gapricom 
Gemini, Virgo or any sign 
Taunus, Sagittarius 
Taurus, Gemini, Libra 
Gemini 


Taurs, Gemini 
“gucus, Libra, 
Sagittarius, Aquairus 
Aries, Libra, Taurus 


Taurus, Aries, scorpio 
sagitlarius Any sign 
Cancer, Earthy Signs 
Taurus, Gamini 

Capricorn, Pisces, Gancer 
Aries, Libra, Taurus 
Taurus, Libra, Pisces 


Leo, Capricorn 
Cancer, Aries, Pisces 
Watery sign 

Leo, ¥irgo 

Pisces, Leo, Cancer 
Cancer, Gemini 
Earthy signs, Taurus 
Pisces, Virgo, Leo 


human sign 
Aries, Capricom, Gemini 


Jupiter, Yenus, Rahu, Mars Taurus, Libra, Anes 


Jupiter, Mercury, Rahu 


Gemini, |aurus 


Informatics 

Issam:c Sciecne 
International business 
Indian Social work 
Homeopathy 
Joumalism 


Journalism & Mass 
communication 
Law 


Labour studies 


_ Lewand arts 


Library sciance 
(defajun 
Landscaping 


Musical arts 

Mass communication 
Managemnal 
Midwifary 

Ministry 

Music therapy 
Mineral Science 
Nursing 


Naturopathy yogic signs 


Offica administration 


Cocupathiona Therapy 


Public Administration 
Pharmacy 
Physical Education 


. Philosophy 


Physictherapy 
Primary education 
Psycology 

Planning and design 
Pualic relation 
Religion of India 
Rural Studies 
Science 

oungery 

8 sc {agriculture} 


Mercury. Jupiter, Uranus 


Mercury, Ratu 


Mercury, Jupiter, Salum 


Venus, Satum, Jupiter 
Sun, Jupiter, Saturn 
Mercury, Jupiter, Sun, 
Uranus 


Mercury, Jupiter, Naptune 
Jupiler. Salum, Mercury, 


Mars 


saturn, Mercury, Jupiter 


Saturn, Jupitar, Yanus 
Mercury, Jupiter 


Mercury, Saturn, Yenus 


Mars, Vanus, Saturn 


Venus, Mercury, Jupiter 
Mercury, Uranus, Jupiter 
Mercury, Rahu. Jupiter 


Moon, Venus 

Sun, Naptune, Rahu 
Venus 

Salum, Mars, Pluto 
Moon, Sun, Mercury, 
Neptune 

sun, Jupiter 

Sun, Mercury, Jupiter 
Mars, Jup , 

Sun, Jupiter 


Sun, Moon, Rahu, Kethu 


Mars. Jupitar 


Jupiler, Saturn, Kethy, 


Neptune 


Mercury, Uranus, Sun 


Jupiler, Mercury 


Moon. Mercury, Jupiier 


Jupiler, Mars, Venus 
Neptune, Jupiter, Sun 
Ketu, Jupiter 


Saturn, Mercury, Jupiler 


Jupiter, Venus, Moon 
Mars. Sun, Mercury 
Moon, Jupiter 


RETROGRADE PLANT 


Gemini 

Aquanus, Gernin 
Sagittarius, ¥irgo 
Aqu aruis, Ubra 

Lec. Pisces, Virgo 
Gemini, ¥irgo, Taurus 


Gemini, Taurus 
Airy Sign, Sagittarius 


Virgo, Capricorn 
Libra, Sagittarius 
Gemini 

Gemini, Pisces 
Cancar, Leo, Taurus, 
Earth Signs 

Airy sign, Libra 
Gemini, Sagittarius 
Gemini, Gancer. Capricom 
Libra, Cancer 

Leo, Aries 


Capncom, Earth signs 
Virgo, Walery signs 


Lec, Pisces, Virgo 
Gemini, Virgo 
Scorpic 

Capricom, Sagittarius 
scomic, Pisces 
Anas, Leo, Sagittarius 
Sagittarius. Pisces 


Lao, Aries, Virgo 

Gemini, Sagittanus 
Aquanus, Lao, Gamini 
Airy ot Wattery sign 

Libra, Gapricom, Sagittarius 
sadittarius, Pisces 

Taurus. Cancer 

Virgo, Aquarius 

Aries, Leo, Scorpio 
Cancer, Virgo 


KAISHNAMUARTI PADHDHATI Si 


8) Social welfare Yenus, Jupiter, Rahu Sagitlarius, Aquarius 

81. Statistics Mercury. Salum Gemini, Scorpio 

62. Teaching Jupiter Mercury Gemini, Sagittarius 

63. Thealers Jupiter, Mercury, Venus Leo, Pisces 

B4 Textiles oun, Yenus, Mercury Leo, Virgo 

85. Tourism Moon, Saturn, Vanus Sagittarius, Gemini 

8. Unani Medicine & Surgery — Jupiler, Saturn Senn, Virgo, Pisces 

GY Visual Arts Venus, Jupiler. Mercury = _ "wa, Taurus 

83 Veterinary Medicine Moon, Rahu, Mars Virgo, Scorpio 

8 Yocational education Jupiter, Mercury, Saturn = Cancer. Sagittarius, Gemini 


Analysis of Higher Education 


9" House will denote higher education and also vocational 
training programs. 4" house shows regular attendance to 
College and University to do higher education. When 9” house 
connected to 4" one will do PG course by attending regular 
classes. 


Here higher education may be anything connected to University 
level. Eg. MBA, ME, M.Sc, M.S. P.G Diploma, MCA, etc. 


Vocational Training Program Native doing a software 
program or any diploma program from a reputed institute. Eg. 
Diploma courses incomputers, fashion technology, 
management, eic. 


lf the 9" cuspal sublord when connected to 4,9,10 or 6" 
house one will do vocational training program. Since 4" house 
is connected to regular attendance to the College or University 
6 or 10" is connected to profession or vocational activities. 


Ifthe 9" cuspal sublord when connected to 3™* house along 
with 93'" house one will do post graduation through 
correspondence. If the 9" cuspal sublord when connected to 
3,9, or 10 one will do vocational training program through 
distance education or through internet 


MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 


if the 9" cuspal when connected to Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, 
Capricorn and planet Mercury - one will do management 


88 RETROGRADE PLANT 
courses like MBA, PG, Diploma. 

The combination of planets :; 

MBA - Finance - Venus. Mercury, 2nq house 

MBA- Marketing - Mercury, 3 and 9 with Gemini and Virgo 


MBA - Human Resources - Saturn, Jupiter, Mercury - 8" 
house with Virgo, Pisces, Mithuna 


MBA - International trade - Mercury - 9" or 12" - Gemini, 
Virgo 


MBA- Production - Mars / Mercury, Aries / Gemini 


E Business - Venus / Mercury - Libra 


SOFTWARE* COMPUTERS 
MCA - or MS computer science - Venus - Jupiter 


1. The combination of Venus, Jupiter and Mercury- Software 
Programmer 


2. With Venus, Mercury, Mars or Satum — Hardware Engineer 
3, With Venus, Mercury along 3 and 9 Network Engineer 


ifthe 9" cuspal sublord when connected to 4 - the native will 
regularly attend the classes for higher education. If the 8" cuspal 
sublord when connected to 3 and 3 the native will study through 
correspondence or by postal or under open university scheme. 


ASTROLOGY : 


1. Ifthe lord of the $" is either Mercury or Jupiter, signifying 
10,2, 9- 11 one will be well versedin Astrology, make 
further research and bring out new findings. 


2. If the sublord of the 9" is Mercury, signifying 9-5-8, the 
native without any research, pretending fo know everything 
of Astrology and his predictions with only a bundle of lies. 


KAISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 


To be popular in Astrology, the sublord of the 9n must be 
Mercury or Jupiter signifying houses 2-9-10-11-5. Such of those 
natives, whoever it may be, they will be genius and also popular 
in the world of Astrology. If connected to 12" house, they wil 
make new findings in the science of Astrology. 


With the help of above combination one can interpretate 
whether one will join the particular course or not. 


lf any Suggestions or improvement, readers or K.P. followers 
can send the feedback. 


WHEN ! WILL GET A JOB? 
K.P. ANSWERS 


The above question was put fo me by one of my clients who 
is Well versed in Traditional Astrology and also has a fair amount 
of grasp on KP Principles [hough | asked him to attempt himself 
for an answer through KP Horary principles, he replied that he 
cannot handle such questions himself with confidence. 


Therefore { had no other alfemative than to handle this Horary 
question myself. The question was put to me on 27-7-2001 at 
10.13 a.m. al my above residence where he consulted me. 
since | had some other work in hand | could attend to this 
question only alter sometime. | prepared a Horary Chart under 
KP Principles for the No. 117 given to me, on 31-7-2001 at 12 
hours 6minutes and 37 seconds at my above residence and 
the same 's attached to this article. 


Verification Of Query:- First let me examine Moon, the 
controller of thought process and mind. Moon signify houses 3 
and 11 directly and 5 and 8 through aspect. He is in the Star 
and Sub of Kethu who also signifies 3 only. The star and Sub 
Lord for Moon viz., Kethu is occupying the Sign of Jupiter, 
Sagittarius and he is also being aspected by this Jupiter, owner 
of 4 and 7 and occupying 9 and also Venus who is the lord of 2 
and 9 occupying 9. Jupiter 1s conjoined with the 10th house 
and this Venus is also conjoining the Jupiter. Kethu is in his 
own Star and Sub of Saturn, owner of 5 and 6 and occupant of 
9. Thus we find that Moon confirms the query but also tells 
more to us How 7? 2,6,10 and 1t relates to his job. 3 indicates 
that he is moving hither and thither in search of job 4 indicates 
that though he is without a job, he ts happily enjoying the 
comforts of his Home and use of vehicle. (He owns a Scooter 
in which he moves around) 5 and 9 indicates that he has already 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHATI 91 


lost his job and is now jobless. 7 indicates that he is in contact 
with a lot of friends and businéss persons and even an 
Astrologer like me, in connection with his job and finally 8 
indicates the trials and tribulations he is undergoing on account 
of loosing the job. 


Let me now take the Ascendant Sub Lord and find out what 
he has to say about this query. The Ascendant Sub Lord is 
Mercury, occupant of 19 and owning 1 and 10. He is inthe Star 
of Saturn, owner of 5 and 6 and occupant of 9 Mercury is 
conjoined with sun occupying the 10° and owning 12” and this 
Sun is also conjoined with 11" and hence Mercury also gets 
the signification for 11" and also the other Houses aspected by 
Sun viz., 1.23 and 5. Sun is in the Slar of Saturn owner of 5 
and 6 and occupant of 9. Thus the Ascendant Sub Lord is 
connected with houses 71,2,3,5,6,9,10,11 and 72. | don't think 
there is any need for my elaborating further about these 
Significations and how they fully reflect the query. 


Whether the Matter is Promised or Not? 


For this we have to examine closely the 11 "Cusp Sub Lord's 
disposition. In the Chart under examination the 11" Cusp Sub 
Lord is Venus with no Planets in his stars and he is also the 
Cusp Sub Lord for 2%. Thus the 11'"Cusp Sub Lord is signifying 
two out of the four houses required for this event and he is also 
conjoined with Jupiter who in turn in is conjoined with the 10" 
house and this Jupiter is 6° Cusp Star and Sub Lord without 
any Planets in his Stars and hence very powertul to give result 
of this house. Therefore we can straightaway conclude that 
the consultant is bound to get job. It may be noticed that this 
Venus is neither retrograde and also not in the Star of a 
retrograde planet since it is in the Star of Mars who is in direct 
motion inthe Horary Chart prepared for the query. The other 
method to find out whether the matter will materialise or not is 
to find out whether the Cuspal Sub Lord of 10" the main house 
for this event is a significator of either the main house or one of 
the subsidiary houses or 11". It is seen that in the Horary Chart 


92 RETROGHADE PUNT 


the 10" Cusp Sub Lord is Moon in the Star and Sub of Kethu 
who is occupying the 4" house representing Jupiter who is 
conjoined with the 10* house and who is also the 6" Cusp star 
and Sub Lord with no Planets in his Stars and this Moon itself is 
the owner of 11" with no occupant in it. Thus under the second 
method also it is confirmed that the matter queried upon will 
gel a posilive answer only. 


Every KP follower knows that for answering the above 
questior we will have to find out first the significators for houses 
2,6,10 and 11 since 2” respresents increase in income, 6 
stands for service by day to day attendance, 10 stand for 
profession and 11 stand for success and gain in the job. 
Therefore | am tabulating below the signifactors for the above 
houses. The signifactors include those that signify the houses 
in question through aspects and these are given in order of 
strength Le, the strongest appear first, and the others follow tt. 
Etc., etc. | am omitting Neptune, Uranus and Pluto from the 
signifactors since they do not own any house and they are not 
allotted specific stars etc., 


2 = VENUS, SUN, MERCURY, JUPITER 
6=SUN, MERCURY, SATURN, MARS 


10= MARS, SUN, MERCURY, JUPITER. SATURN. RAHU. 
KETHU 
11 =SATURN, MOON, Sun, VENUS 


| am now indicating a useful process for selecting fruitful 
significators. | am tabulating below the Cusp Sub Lords for 
houses 2,6, 10Qand 11 and the significators placed in the Stars 
of such Cusp Sub Lords. 


CUSP SUB LORD PLANETS in the stars of 
such cusp sub lords 


2= VENUS NONE 
(No planets in the stars of venus) 


KRISHNAMLRTt PADHDHATI 93 
6= Jupiter None 
(No Planets in the stars of Jupiter) 
10= Moon Saturn 


11 = Venus None 
(No Planets in the stars of Venus) 

Therefore under this Method we find Venus and Jupiter 
emerge as very strong significators for 2, 6and 11 and for 10 
Saturn has emerged as a Significator but he cannot be taken 
as a fruitful signiticator since he is occupying the 9 which is 
negaling 10. Then Whom are we to select as a fruitful’ 
significator for 10" from the list of significators indicated above. 
We find thal Jupiter though occupies 9" he is conjoined with 
the 10", the house of profession and therefore he comes as a 
very powertul significator for 10 and there are no planets in his 
Stars as mentioned above. It may be found from the Horary 
Charf that Kethu the Node is occupying the Sign of this Jupiter 
and he is also being aspected both by Jupiter as well as Venus 
who have emerged as very powerful significators. Therefore 
Ketu, the Node also becomes a powertul signiticator for 10" as 
well as 2nd and 11 since it is being aspected by Venus who is 
the Cusp Sub Lord for 2 and 11 with no planets in its stars and 
hence very powertul to give result of these two houses along 
with 6 and 10 since this Venus is conjoined with Jupiter. Finally, 
KETHU, VENUS AND JUPITER emerge as fruitful significators 
ta give even. 


| would like to stress the point here that only atfer this stage 
ofthe examination is reached, we will have to seek the help of 
the Ruling Planets. 


A doubt may arise in the minds of the readers why we should 
seek the help of Ruling Planets since we are having only 3 
planets signifying all the required houses and why not take these 
3 planets straightaway and arrive at the conclusion. Yes, this 
can be done, But our Great Guruji has given us the DICTA that 
only the Ruling Planets are the correct guide on any matter and 


94 RETROGRADE PLANT 


hence we have to work out the Ruling Planets and find out 
whether the above 3 planets operate as Ruling Planets so that 
there may not be any doubt in our mind whether they can give 
the result. 


| sought the help of Ruling Planets on 31 -7-2001 at 14 hours 
30 minutes and 55 seconds at my above residence and the 
HPs chart is also attached to this article. It may be seen 
therefrom that the following have come as Ruling Planets. 


Ascendant Sub Lord = Kethu 
Ascendant Star Lord = Saturn 
Ascendant Sign Lord = Mars 

Moon's Sub Lord = Venus 
Moon's Star Lord = Kethu 
Moon's Sign Lord = Jupiter 
Day Lord — Mars 


Let us take up the elimination process to remove the tempters 
from the Ruling Planets by utilizing the principle of retrogression. 
We find none of the RPs are in the Stars/Sub of any retrograde 
planet. Therefore all the above RPs quality as final RPs for the 
event. 


We find that Venus,Kethu, Jupiter are Common amongst 
the RPs and Fruitful Significators, who can give result provided 
their period is in operation in the Horary and the Transit Also 
Agrees. 


It may be seen from the Horary Chart that on the date of 
examining the Horary Chart viz., 1-7-2001 the following Planets 
rule as Dasa, Bukthi, Anthra and Sookshma Lords. 
Kethu, Kethu,Moon and Rahu. It may be seen that both Moon 
and Rahu have not figured as fruittul significators in the final 
analysis. It may be seen that Venus has figuréd as a strong 
significator on two counts - 1} He is the Cusp Sub Lord for 2ng 
and 11th inthe Horary Chart for No.117 and he is also conjoined 
with Jupiter the Cusp Star and Sub Lord for 6" and this Jupiter 
is also conjoined with 10° the house of profession and there 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI go 


are no planets in the stars of Venus and Jupiter. Further Jupiter 
and Venus are aspecting Kethu by an opposition aspect which 
is a favourable one. Thus the event can happen only when these 
three planets operate as period Lords in the Horary Chart 


Now the Astrologer is facing the greatest challenge. In what 
manner? No doubt the Dasa Lord Kethu is in operation up to 
17-6-2008 and will be consullant be satisfied if we simply say 
that before the above date he will get the appointment. We will 
have to narrow down to the earliest date by which he can get a 
job. We have nearly two Zones which are covered by the three 
planets and out of which one are we fo select. We find that 
Kethu Dasa and Kethu Bukthi is in operation up to 14-11-2001 
and hence we can arrive at a tentative conclusion that before 
14-11-2001 the consultant will get the job provided the transit 
agrees. And within the above dale i.e., 14-11-2007 Kethu and 
Venus Anthra are already over by 20-7-2001 We are left with 
only Jupiter Anthra in Kethu Dasa and Bukthi which operates 
between 10-9-2007 and 30-9-2001. Can he get the job within 
this period? Who will decide this? Only Sun transit can decide 
about this since the event 1 to happen some months after the 
examination of the Horary Chart. Before than we have to decide 
during the transit of which out ofthe 10 zones indicated above 
where Sun transits the event will fructify. For this we have to 
first see in which sign the Ascendant in the RPs Chart has 
fallen. It is seen that the Ascendant in the RPs chart has fallen 
in Scorpio whichhave to find out the strong planets who is a 
fruitful significator who aspects the 11. We find Jupiter one of 
the fruitful significator is fixed Sign which indicates that there 
will be delay in the fructification of the event queried upon. Next 
we have to tind outthe strong planet who is a fruitful signiticator 
who aspects the 11. We find Jupiter one of the fruitful significator 
is aspecting the 11" with a Square aspect. Ne doubt Sun and 
saturm aspect the 11* with favourable aspects and Sun is also 
conjoined with the 11%, but they are not the fruitful significators. 
Therefore we have to decide the timing based on the aspect of 
Jupiter onfly Since Jupiter is a slow moving Planet and the 
Ascendent inthe RPs chart has also fallen ina fixed sign scorpio 


96 RETROGRADE PLANT 


it is clear that the event will happen after delay and that too 
when Sun transits the Last Zone covered by all the three frurtful 
significators viz., Kethu, Venus and Jupiter. This last zone falls 
between 265-53-20 and 266-4-00. Sub reaches this zone on 
Thursday the 10.01.2002. On this date Sun travels in the Sign 
of Jupiter. Star of Vensu and sub of Kethu and hence | have 
decided that the Consultant will get a job on this date when 
Kethu Dasa, Venus Bukthi and Anthra are in operation. This 
day has been selected since the constellation Lord on the that 
day is Saturn, owner of 6" the house of service and Sub of 
Jupiter the powerful fruitful significator for 6 and 10 along with 
2 and 11. Since Moon is transiting in Saturn Star and Jupiter 
sub only up to 10-25 a.m. on that date the Consultant will join 
duty during this period. 


The above decision has been taken by looking into the 
Ascendant in the RPs. There is another pratice in KP for finding 
out when an event will materialize. According to this theory if 
the 11* Csup sub Lord is a fast moving planet and is occupying 
a common sign then it is very difficult to predict correctly when 
the event will materialsie. In the present case it may be seen 
that the 11* Cusp Sub Lord is Venus, a moderately moving 
Planet and is placed in the Common Sign, Gemini. Therefore it 
is very difficult to come to any conclusion about the time when 
the event will happen but it can be said that the event will happen 
in due course of time and what is this time If we follow this 
method we are having three options to declare the time of 
happening of the event. They are: 1} When sun transits between 
205-46-20 and 206-33-20 ie. 11/12-11-2001. 2) Between 17/ 
19-12-2001 when sun will transit in 240-46-40 and 243-00-00. 
3) On 70-71-2002 when sun transits in 265-53-20 and 266-40- 
OO. Therefore under this methed we have to declare that the 
consultant will get his job on any one of the above dates. 


When all is said and done | feel that such cases if is advisable 
to take a decision based on the ascendant sign of the Ruling 
Planet chart in which case the Consultant should get his job on 
10-1-2002. 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHAT| o7 


Let me pray to our Great Guruji Prof.Late Shri. 
K.8.Krishnamurti that he should bless me from above so that 
my prediction comes correct. 


Dasa Bal Kethu-6y. 320 Days 
Ends on 16 6 2008 

BHK Bal Ketu Oy 104Days 
ANT. Bal Moon 9 Days 

SOOK Bal Rahu 0 Days; 


HOR.NO: 117: 
CUSP = Sql Stl Sk: Ssl Planet Sgl Sh od Sd 
ASC Mer Mano ome =o rer Sn Mn = Sat Fah Ven 
and Ven Ren Ven =O Mn ip ke Kat =n 
ad Mar Mer Ma Mer Mars Mer Me Sin Ven 
ath Jup Ven Ash Rh Mer Mn sf Ket = Sal 
An 5 | Mn Kat Mer  Jup Mer Aen Jup = Mar 
Bh Sat Jp Jupp = sal Ven Ma Mar ‘en Ket 
wh JUD Mer Mer Pc Sat Ven Mn Mer Ven 
Mer Ven Mh Min Ah Me Amb Sat Sa 

ch Ven Mn Sat = Ven Ku wp Ket SC St 
10h Mer Fe SoMh Fgh UranR seg Ter Sa Ph 
11th Mn Mer Ven Mn NestR Sa Nn Hai = Sun 
12th Sun Yn dp dp Fer Sa Mer Ven Fh 

Put? Mer Mer Kel Ah 


Significators of Houses 
Significators are shown in the following order of importance: 


A-Planets in the Star of Occupants of House: 
B- Planets in House 

C- Planets in stars of House lord 

D- House Lord 

E- Planets aspecting by Western aspects 

F- Sub Lord 


98 RETROGRADE PLANT 
Querist Sri "A” Hor No. 117 
Ven.4.48.32 


dup. 10.10.26 
Rahu 18.16.4 


1 IX 16.42.57 


Vi 1746.40 | VIll 18.14.40 Sat 18.215 


Date :31-7-2001 Tue 
Mer 7.59.24 
VI 20.20.34 | Time 12.6199999885559082 * Gun 14.21.32 
For 3.38.59 Sid. Time 8h20m59s Al 19.58.41 
MOOLAM pada 1 


Uran 29.40.41! Place : Delhi Cant 
¥. 19.58.41 Lat 28° 26'N 
Nep.A Long 66°8'E XI 20.20.34 
13.34.15 Ayan 23d.46m.52s 


IV 18.16.47 | Mer 22.12.52 
Ket 10.43.12 | Plu.t8.62.55 | §116.14.40 | Asc.17.46.40 
Moon 0.13.57) {Il 18.42.57 


ee 
Mar/Plu | Sun, Jup, Sat | 
| ; Nep, Plu 
Nep, Plu 
Mn, Mar, Ke | ¥n, Ur, For Sun, Mer, Sat 
Prt Nep, Plu 
Nep Mar, Jus, Rah 
a Ket, Ura, Nep 
Ura, For Sun. Mer Sun, Mn, Mer 
oun, Mer Mars 
| Mar, For 
Ven, Ura, For Mh 
Mar, Plu 


Sat, Nep, Ven, 
Ura, For, Mn.ke 


Jup, Sat, Rah 
. ; Ket, For, Plu 
11th Sun, ¥n, Sal 


. Nep, Plu 
12h Mer, Sat,Plu 


5 S| 5 ise5/8| 3] &] a] 7 
| 


KRISHNAMURT! PACDHDHATI 99 


Planet House Numbers Siguified 


Sun A-9, B-10, C-05, 0-12, E-As, 02.03,05,11F 

Moon A-03, B-03, D-11, E-05,08, F-8,10 

Mars A-10, B-03, C-As, C-10, D-03, D-08, E-04, 05, 

06, 07, 09, F- 

MercuryA-09,B-10, C-05, C-06, D-As, E-02,03, 12, F-1,3,7 
Jupiter A-09, B-09, 0-04, D-07, E-As,02,04,10, F-6,12 
Venus A-03,B-09, C-03, C-08, BD-02,0-09, E-11, F-2,11 
Saturn A-03, B-09, C-11, D-05, D-06, E-As, 03,10,11,12, 
F-9 

Rahu A-09, B-09, E-04,10, F-4 

Kethu A-03, B-03. E-04,10, F-5 

Uran A-03, B-05, C-03, C-08, E-04, F- 

Nept 4-03, 6-04, C-11, E-As, 02,03,04, 11, F- 

For. A-03, B-05, C-03, C-08, E-07,10, F- 

Plut A-10, B-03, C-As, C-10, E-As,02,03,09,10,11,12, F- 


Planets exalted or in own house strongly signify the house 
owned. These are: Mars: Own 


Planets with no others in their stars- For,Plu,neglected are 
Sun: Jup: Ven: 


a a a 
Sun 15 THN = CAS hat Sa GPP TR 
Moon  *35 CON OP SKIL Soy = SATL 
Mas TRAN OOM 'H fe) _ 
Mer || COMI 15 Sod Sd Sox Op 
ip Sed sont OOM CON Opp TRA 
Ven Onp Sod (COR COL THN TRIN 
Sal = S71 Onn TAIN CPP 
Ray = Saar Set 86 COR CON Cop TRN 
Ketu Ope Om Opp Say Sad 
U-an Srl TRE Sen Con 
Net Opp Se Opp TRE Sad SAL 
Fy EF i) XN THN FRA CU 
Pal TiN Cam On SxTL 


100 RETROGRADE PLANT 
Pianet Asc o¢ngd dd 4h ohh th th ET 2th 


ee 


Sun SXTL SQ TRIN 0p Conj 

Hoon Ssoqr 135 

Mars Gsxt o€TL SQUR TRIN Opp 

Merc _ $0. TRIN Ssqr. 
Jup. SQ, TR, Opp. DOM 

Ven. Ssq/, 

sat =o TR. Opn Saxt| SATL SQUR 
Ratu Opp. CONJ 

Kelu Cont Onn 

Lran Sst 

Nept TH. 80 SxXTL Ssxi On. 

For Ssqr 135 

Plt SATL Ssxt Cony Opp 140 TRin SQUR 


ORBS - Gon), Opp = §, sq-Trines = &, SEXT 6, Seams = 4 Rest = 7 deg. 
Ruling Planets for Horary No.117 


Place : Delhi Contt. State : Dehi Country : India 

Date: 31.07.2001 Time: 14H 30.92000007629395M 

Dasa Bal Ketu 6Y 83Days Ends on 23.10.2007 
PLANETS 


Planet 3 0 M Sec 30 Sql Stl Sbl ol 
SUN 4 14 27 17 Mn Sal Fah Ven 
Moon 5 1 8 Jub Ke Vin Mar 
Mars 3 a 13 49 Mar Mer Mn Mn 
Merc 4 8 11 5a Moo Sal Vn Vn 
up 4 10 11 Al Mer Fah up Fah 
Veg 4 56 2 = Mer Mar Sun Mn 
Sat 2 aus 21 aa Vens Moon Mer Ven 
Fan 3 19 42 53 Mer Fah Sal Sat 
Ketu S) 10 42 54 Jup Ket oal Mo 
Uran-R 19 rar) 40 2? Sat Mar Sat Fah 
epi 10 3 3 Sal Moon Fah Sun | 
For T2 25 3 15 Jup Mer Fan Mer 
PRi-R a 18 a 50 Mar Mer Ket Fah 


104 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDRATI 


CUSPS 


Cusp 


2ebRESESRBBSE 


eg SEER EERE ERR G 
RSEERPERAFRSEEB 


har 


Qo g 


a NY 


10 


11 


BER 


> 


16 


K 


+ 


a 
= 


Té 


Y 


> 


14 


G 


& 


G 


Y 


1 
16 
? 


Y 


10th 


11h 


1Al 


rt 


= 


SSRFPERERIZSE 


Y 


9 


14 


EMPLOYMENT PROSPECTS AND 
PROMOTIONS 


In olden days there was a proverb meaning job is man's 
prestige (udhyogam Purushalakshnam) Nowadays persons 
Study by pending money and on attaining required qualifications 
convert this into money by joining in some employment. In other 
words il is also a business. 


In a chart 40" house represents profession but 6" house 
indicates service. As said above it is to bring money which is 
represented by 2°° house. Above all one should have the luck 
to fulfil his desires which is shown by 11" house. Thus for 
deciding employment houses 2,6,10and 11 should be studied 
carefully. 


Before proceeding to find out the ways through the stellar 
theory propounded by Late Prof.K.S. Krishnamurti let us have a 
quick look at the traditional books versions. 


1. JATAKATATVWA: A person will be employed in Government 
under the following conditions. 


1) The Sun in Kendra. 

2) The Moon in Kendra or Kona. 

3) Iflord of 10" is in 11" or Kendra. 
A) If Jupiter is in Ascendant or fourth. 


2.PHALA DEEPIKA. Profession is prescribed for the lord of 
Navamsa occupied by the planet owing the 10 place from 
lagna. the Moon, the Sun (Severally) whichever is strongest,. 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHAT| 104 


Note: When once Navamsa is mentioned if is nothing but 
Stellar theory. The house is divided into 9 parts. (Navamsa) 
where it coincides with one quarter of star prescribed or that 
further particular rasi). 


The position of several planets owning 10" house be poisited 
in 

1}Sun: Earning thro’ wool, Medicines, Working on metals, 
serving under king i.e. Government. 


2) Moon: Trade in water products (Pearls, Coral} agriculture, 
Cattle Trading in cloth etc. 


3) Mars: Metal, Warriors, Cook, Land, Spy or even theft 
courage is portfolio of Mars). 


4) Mercury: Clerical Job, Poet, Astrology, Study of iedas., 
Manthra etc. (Knowledge is ruled by Mercury). 


5) Jupiter: Religious way, Preaches, Lending Money Jupiter 
rules finance). 


6) Venus: Cows, Buffaloes, Fine arts, Ornaments, Silks etc. 
(Venus for pleasures) 


7) Saturn: Casual Labour, Bare activities, Dealing roots, Low 
Morality (Saturn is for low deeds). 


3.UTTARAKALAMRITA: This book suggests that service 
should be predicted only from 6" house while 10 house shows 
Government works, service, honourable living intention to 
command etc., 


The various planets which rules among things the following 
also, are to be judged by using astrological knowledge, for 
deciding livelinood. 


1) Sun: Royal favour, kingdom, rulership etc., (It is to be 
decided that this will give job in government establishments}. 


2) The Moon: Travel. Precious watery things, Pearl, Coral 
etc meaning Navy or cealter in Pearl ect. 


104 RETROGRADE PLANT 


3) The Mars:- Courage, fire, etc., This may mean a warring 
or even a Cook. 


4) Mercury:- Education, Wisdom, mathematics, Astrology, 
Writing, This will make professor, Astrologer and in most case 
make a typist also whose work is to take copies (Mercury being 
dual Planet). 


5) Jupiter:- Precepter, Treasures, Savings, oniliancy, Oratonal 
talent. This will produce Lawyers Bankers, Accountants etc and 
also preceptors. 


6) Venus:- All pleasures, sensual, touch, sex etc., this will 
give dealers in Radio's , T.V. Musicians and in wors condition 
produce seller of women etc., 


7) Saturn:- Laziness, Ouctasts, Agriculaturists, Hair. This 
produces very ordinary labourers, bankers etc, but in best cases 
may give person in tonsured hairs from temples while is having 
good business. 


Late Prof. K.S.4Krishnamuyrtiin hig Padhdhati and stated that 
6" house is connected with work and service. It denotes 
employees, Subordinates and servants, 


Livelinood(Jeevana) is to be judged from 10* house. He is 
critical is saying that ones profession cannot be jodged from 
10" house alone, but combined study of 2,6and +0" house are 
very essential [hese houses are called material trinity as these 
three houses in the zodiac rules earth signs representing 
material gains for day-to-day life. Prof.K S.Krishnamurti had also 
given many combination for various profession. This is dealt in 
detail and hence there is a necessity for reproductions. 


summing up we generally conclude second house which 
represents finance, 6” house for service and tenth house for 
profession are to be judged for arriving at the type pf vocationa 
person will have. In all cases it is necessary study eleventh 
house also as it represents the fulfillment of desires. The 
strength of these houses play a very prominent rote in deciding 
a happy or otherwise service condition. If the second house is 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHAT| 105 


weak the remuneration will not be for the hard work, while a 
weak sixth house denies job satisfaction and so on. 


The following planets by rulership occupation or aspects may 
indicate the types of jobs as indicated. 


Sun: Government, Medical Profession 

Moon: Dealer in pearls, wine merchants etc. 
Mars. Warrior, Surgeons, barbar (in bad position) 
Mercury: Astrologers, Typist. Clerks, Professor 
Jupiter. Bankers. Preacher. Accountant, Lawyers 
Venus: Dealers in Radio, T.V., Finearts, cloth etc 
Saturn: Mostly minerals etc. 


The combination of planets may modify the type of profession 
and not change them, 


Moon 25'21 
Rahu 22 34 ly 9°27 


Ure 216 1 13°30 I 13°24 Jupiler 


Mer 11°44 . 
19°59 7°59 
Sun 6°40 


21-3-1931 | Wars 5°32" 
6.32 A.M. v 6°21" 
Lat : 11°58’ N 


XS 30 


Long: 7975'E 
Ven 2438' | Bal. Mercury Dasa 
x1 B21 BY-11M4D 10 56 


VI a 
" Neptune (FR) 


Sat 28°58 IX 13°21 VII 13°30" Vii9 59 
Ket 22-34’ 


106 RETROGRADE PLANT 


For example Sun and Mercury may produce Engineers if 
Mercury leads the Sun. This combination with Mars may 
produce Mechanical or Agriculture Engineers while Venus may 
do well with Electronic Engineers dealing in radios, TV, etc. 


Before winding up this article, let us take two charts for 
practical study:- 


Houses Sign Star Sub 

| Mars Venus Venus 
Vi Sun Kethu Mars 

X Jupiter Kethu oatun 
Xl saturn sun Mercury 


Mars in Saturn Star Mercury Sub 
Sun in Saturn Star Mercury Sub 
Jupiter in Rahu Star Sun Sub 
oaturn in Sun Star Mars Sub 


The Sublord of 10 house is Saturn. He is in Sun star Saturn 
is well posited 10'* house with the aspect of it lord Jupiter. It 
gave him goad job in government This promotion were very 
slow. The native changed his job Mars times before he could 
sel in the present at his age of when he was running Venus 
dasa, Saturn Bhukth: Mercury Anthra. He joined only on a 
oaturday, when the Moon was transitting in 2nd house in Mars 
sign Kethu Star. His near promotion came after 4 years when 
he was in Venus dasa Mercury bhukthi Moon anthra. It was on 
Thursday when Moon was transitting Sun Star and Mercury 
oign. The other luminary the Sun star and Mercury Sign. The 
other luminary the Sun was transitting 6'" house at the time 
promotion. After a very long service of 22 years he against got 
two quick promotions, The first one was when he was Mars 
dasa Rahu Bhukti Venus anthra. -The day was Monday and the 
Micon transitting in Mars star in Venus house. The Sun was in 
Jupiter sign in Saturn star. The second was when he was in 
Mars dasa, Venus Bhukti Jupiter Anthra. The day was 
Wednesday and the Moon was again in Mars house, Kethu 
star The Sun of course was again in his own house.. 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI WY? 


VI 24°50" 
Ket 11°50) 


VII 22°44 Vil 2703) IX 20°03 


—— 4-9-1959 K 2150 
10.32 A.M. al 
Lat :13°43' N _ 
Long : 79°08’ E Mar 5°21" 
NM 21°50" Bal. Sun Dasa Ven (R) 13°05 
3y - - 28D Sun 17°44 
OM - 28 XI 24°50) 
Moon 2°14 
IF 20°03 | 21°03 Mars 9°42" 
Sat 717 | dup. 202’ Rahu 11°50" 
XI 24°50 
Houses Sign Star Sub 
I Mars Mercury Venus 
VI Jupiter Mercury Rahu 
x Moon Mercury Sun 
XI Sun Venus Saturn 


oun Star Mercury Sub 
Jupiter Star Rahu Sub 
Sun Star Jupiter Sub 
Kethu star Mars sub 
Kethu Star Mercury Sub 
Venus Star Mars Sub 
Moon Star Mars Sub 


When the family itself was in Engineering class this who 
took up Science group in degree became an Chartered 
Accountant. He is a brilliant person, who had sound talents, his 


108 RETROGRADE PLANT 


tenth houses is flooded with planets The house gets the benefic 

aspect of Jupiler who aspects and &" house by being in second 

rasifagna bhava Jupiler is posited in his own star and Rahu 

sub This is working as an executive with good name by his 

work He is now in Rahu dasa, who is the sublord of Jupiter is 

posited in Moon star Mars Sub. The transit of by March 88 shou Id 
bring him more man fortune as he be trasitting Aquarius sign 

ruled by Saturn in the of Jupiter. 


Further to my article under the above captain | propose deal 
with the other part of employment i.e. transfers, punishements 
and achievements. 


As already stated, sublord theory, the invention by of K.3.K 
gives the nearest approach to predictions. | predicted in many 
cased the events correctly and had praised. God has kept the 
secrecy only in birth time which may vary due to watches, 
clocks etc. With all vigil my daughter's chart had to be recast 
for a correction of 7 minutes though | was present at the nursing 
home. 


lf the time of birth is correctly recorded small calculation, by 
the method called "Pre Natal Epoch" popunded by Baile. may 
give rectified birth tre. ifit is vary in hours the method known 
by “Arc of Event’ of ay [len George may be applied In the former 
case place of conception ts very esseniial. It is not known to 
what this can be used in modern life where couple spends says 
al various places calling honeymoon and return with legnancy. 


in K.P. System, a very small correction based on ruling 
planets will decide. The sublord theory correctly pinpoints. Used 
to predict the probable strts of life partners by using the sublord 
of Seventh cusp. In may case itself, | found that the sublord of 
7 cusp to be Venus and my star was “Poorarn’ ruled by Venus 
Considering 71" cusp to be first child in case of Males (5" from 
7tr Le. Wife, who delivers children) it was Mercury. Mercury 
inflicted and have lost my first child. Sublord of (3'" from 171) is 
Venus and my son was born on Friday. It write many things, but 
it may not have relevance to subject. This only made me to 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 109 


take profK.S Krishnamurti my preceptor who lit the lamp of 
intelligence in me. 


Riverting to this subject in the chart referred the lord of 10" 
cusp was Saturn who was in Sun star. Mars Saturn is aspected 
by Jupiter. It gave him Government that too in railways. (Saturn 
rules over iron and Masses Sun, Mars and Mercury who are all 
in Saturn stars and Satrun is dual sign it gave the native income 
in many ways. 


Transfer.- Any service is liable for transfer. !t may from one 
place to ancther or office/sections. Houses 3, and 12 are to be 
considered. While the tenth house represents job, change of 
place is shown by 3 (t2" to 4 permanent Residence) and 12" 
house represents total different environments, when the 
signiticators operates dasa, bhukthi etc. transfer is effected. 


ifl—- Venus 
X- Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn 
Xi} - Sun, Mars, Mercury, Saturn 


This gentleman's first transfer was during October when he 
was in Venus dasa, Saturn Bhukthi. Mercury anthara. The 
second transferwas during July 59 again in Venus dasa Saturn 
Bhukthi, Rahu antharam The third transfer was during 
December 62 when the native was still in Venus dasa, Mercury 
Bhukthi.Saturn antharam. From then onwards he is continuies 
at present place but many inter office transfer, of which the 
significant one was during March 81 when he was in mars dasa, 
Rahu Bhukthi, Kethu antharam. Though the native was 
transferred mostly during Venus dasa, because of his position 
in Mars star (who is lord of 2 & 9 in 4" bhavs aspecting Vensu), 
he never got separated from his family. His family traveled with 
him all along. 


Leave:- Taking leave may be due fo many reasons: Sickness 
functions, journey and so on. While houses 3,9,12 are mostly 
consulted it will not be out of the way if other house?. Such as 
6 for sickness, 7" for marriage and 5™ for maternity (in case of 


110 RETROGRADE PLANT 


females) or even 11 to get the leave sanctioned thereby fulfilling 
desires, are also takes signification for these houses are:- 


il! —Venus 

IX —Mars, Vensu 

Xll—Sun, Mars, Mercury, Saturn 
Vi —Sun, Saturn 

Vil— Moon, Mercury, Rahu, Kethu 


The native has gone on leave for his marriage during venus 
dasa Sarutn Bhukthi and Mercury anthram; on pilgnmage during 
Venus dasa Kethu Bhukthi and Mars Antharam; or sickness 
during Mars dasa, Mars Bhukthi, Kethu Antharam and again in 
mars dasa Moon Bhukthi, Saturn Antharam. In all the above 
cases, transits of major and minor planets had titled the balance 
and put the major events occur. 


Retirement:- Negative house theory is the next subject, | 
purpose fo write is on the anvil, 12m house to any house is 
negative. Houses 1.5,9 are to be consulted for retirement as 
these are negative houses to 2,6 & 10. Besides the above 8" 
house also to be consulted as this represents legacy, Le. 
provident fund, insurance etc Usually retirement is fixed to 58 
years to 62 years depending private or public sector undertaking. 
But a person can decide for premature retirement or his services 
may be extended. As per the standard chart this person may 
have to retire on 31 3.89 as attaining the age of 58 years. He 
may be running Rahu dasa/ Bhukthi Afenus antharam. The 
significators for the various houses are 


- Moon, Mercury, Jupiter. Rahu. Kethu 
- Moon, Mars. Venus, Kethu 

- Mars, Venus 

- Venus 


It will be seen from the above that Venus the lone significator 
of 8" (legacy) in 11™house in the star of mars (lord of 2 & 9) 


KRISHNAMURTI PACDHDRATI 114 


with the direct aspect of Mars will take the person retire. The 
transit of Rahu in 12", Saturn in 10" and Jupiter in 3° house 
also coincide with this for normal retirement. But premature 
retirement is indicated during Aug/Sep’88 when the native will 
be in Rahu dasa/ Rahu BhukthiKethu antharam when the 
transits are more pronounces. Let Us see. 


HOW LONG SEPARATION? 


Most people get married either when young or around the 
middle age. It is only a small percentage that remains single. 
Before marriage, there is much enthusiasm and in some cases, 
this is kept up. In a few cases, this wanes because of the 
deteriorating relationship between the couple, i.e , how they care 
foreach other. Among the marned, a large number lead a happy 
life with domestic fecility and a few are unfortunate because of 
the manner of treatment meeted out. Even among the 
unfortunate category, a few patiently put up with the tyranny of 
their husband, hopping for better days, but a few take the bold 
decision in despair, to quil, according to the saying. ‘It is better 
to live in a forest where tigers roam than to live with a despot, 
and eke out an honourable livelihood elsewhere, so that they 
could tind some solace. All this in spite of the fact that the 
horoscopes of both the bride and the bridegroom had been 
referred to a traditional astrologer prior to marriage and his okey 
obtained. !n this article, it is proposed to atternpt at bringing 
forth the sailent points governing happiness in married life and 
the factors leading to separation. 


Given below is the horoscope of a gentleman who lived with 
his wife for about 10 years fo become the parent of just one 
child. 


Birth Details: 


Oate of Birth: Friday, 18-10-1935 
Time of Birth: 6.45 p.m IST 
Place of Birth: 110 N.00’ 

Long in time 5-14-40 hrs. 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHAT! 
Ayanamsa’ 22° 51' 
Balance of Janmadasa: Jupiler, 11y 8m t2d 


lll 11-28 
Kil 4-26 il 15-28 Moon 23 39 
Ketu 24°1' 


For.a'{' 
Sat. {R}17°¥ 
Kb 7-26 


NIRAYANA 


V 7-28 
Ven, 18°49 


Ran 241 | Mars 29°40 | Vib15-56 
x - VI 15-28 Sun 1°30" Vi 14-28 
" Jup.3°38" Mer. 0°47" 


Stellar position of planets: 


Planet Star lord sub lord 
oun Mars Mercury 
Moon Jupiter saturn 
Mars Mercury Saturn 
Mercury Mars Mercury 
Jupiter oaturn oatum 
Saturn Rahu saturn 
Rahu Venus Mercury 
Kethu Jupiter Mars 
Fortuna Mars Mercury 


Venus Venus Rahu 


113 


114 RETROGRADE PLANT 


It happened that when the native was out of station for a few 
days, his wife, as usual, went to her parents place in the same 
locality. On return, the native went to his father-in-law's place 
to announce his return to his wife but she said that she would 
like to have some rest and would join him after a few days. A 
few days passed and she didn't return and even to this day, 
they are living apart. His personal entreaties and the intervention 
of some ofthe relatives has had no effect what ever. 


Sighificators and their strength 


Planet Tenantng Octupies Jenantng Owns Conjoined Is in‘he sub of 
the const house Ine const. Nous wrth 
d of kort of 
occupant 
Sun B 6 18 5 - Mercury tod af 3 
and 6:6 
Moon? 3 B12 4 Kethuin3 Satur fondo 1C 
and 17 11 
Mars 6 8 36 18 - Salurn = «da 
Mar = 8 6 18 36 = Sui, Lord Mercury larder 3 
of and Ging 
Jupiter 11 ; tO,11 9i2 Saturn lordor 10 and 
ini 
Yems 49 J gf if - Ral 9, also t2 
eat ick & 
Sakn = it? 1" ; on | Baum todo! 1C and 
{m1 
Fahy 5 ai? ef - - Meruury londof 3 
and 6 ing 
Kathy 867 46 9,12 - Moon lord Mars lerdof 1 and 
us 4 Gir: 8 


Fovluna 8 1 iB - Saturn lord Mercury lord of 3 
of 10. and 11 and 6 ing 

Nioie | Agaisnt Moon, it has been shown that she is conjoined with Kethu in order that it can be 
inferred at first sight that Kelhu 1S stronger than Moon, signilicator of ? Against Kethu, it has been 
sheavn as conjoined with Mana, lord of 4, to denote that Kethu gives Ineresult of the Moon, as 
itis a Node. As Aahu is a significator of 5 and as Saturn in the const of Aah, Sih house has 
been included in the case of Saturn As Nodes givé the result af the other sign owned by the 
lord of the sign n which ‘ney are posited, these have included against Nodes 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 115 


This horoscope was shown to a gentleman well-versed in 
KP. Who consoled the native with his advice that matters will 
take a turn for the better from February 1975 and in 1978 (exact 
dates not remembered) normalcy would be restored. However, 
as matters did not improve, the native casually met me and 
asked me if | can say anything in regard to the stalemate. 
However, | was not sure whether f was competent to handle 
such a huge important matter. Any way, | made bold prediction 
and asked him to call two days iater. The treatment of the subject 
is presented in the following paragraphs. General principles. 


Jupiter or Venus being the sub-lord of the 7th cusp and at the 
same time being a significator of houses 2 or 11 indicates happy 
married life. Venus in any of the Upachaya stanas and in good 
aspect shows peace, pleasure and prosperity after marriage, 
if she is not in the sub of 6 or 12. IF such a Venus however, 
receives bad aspect also, in the conjoint period of Venus and 
the planet in good aspect, native will be happy; in the conjoint 
period of Venus and the afflicting planet, there will be disaffection, 
dissatisfaction or disagreement. Mercury or Moon or Sun as 
significator of 7" house receiving good aspect from the 
significator of 11 shows happy married life. Any of the luminaries 
posited inthe 7" house and in favourable aspect with Jupiter or 
Venus, and who are significators of houses 2 or 11 is conducive 
to happiness. Venus and even the natural malefics Mars and 
Uranus in good aspect is advantageous if they are not 
Significators of houses 6,10 or 42. The 7* house to the lagna or 
the Moon sign cccupied or aspected by benefies by lordship is 
also favourable. Lord of lagna conjoined with lord of 7 and 
situated in 3 and 11 relationship to the lord of 7, good aspects 
among the lords of houses 1,2,7 and 11 also denote happy life. 


The significators of the 8" house indicate quarrel and 
disharmony and they do not threaten, unless otherwise badly 
placed by sub position, separation. Even though the native 
suffers at the hands of the husband, she continues to put up 
withit. The lord of 8" house being a significator of 7» house 
indicates difficulties and difference of opinion between the 
couple and the native being a victim of torture. Mercury and 


116 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Mars in evil aspect and either of them connected with the 
significator of partner in iife shows disharmony and the couple 
will manhandle each other. Girls bom in Scorpio lagna will lose 
temper and with the least provocation, they will not hesitate to 
retort, as she cares a damn for the husband, if the lagna of 
Mars Is afficted. So beware if such a horoscope is presented 
for matching. However, if a native is fated fo marry only such a 
girl and to suffer, the astrologer, to whom the horoscopes are 
referred, will become blind to the harrowing fact and give the 
green signal. Even fihere are no good aspects, if the lagna or 
Mars is devoid of any aspect at all, that will be an agreeable 
position and you can't find a better partner than the Scorpio 
born girl. 


Let men are of the view that Mars is the only planet which 
can cause difference of opinion Disagreement, dispute divorce 
elc. It is notso. Any planet can cause such undesirable effects, 
if it is in such a position that the sub-lord of the planet is the 
significator of house 6,10 or 12 or the sub-lord is in the 
constellation of a significator of 6 or 10 or 12. If the same planet 
is a significator of house 2 or 7 or 11, such disagreeable 
experiences will last only for a short period and the couple will 
continue to live together Ifthe sub-lord is either Mars or if the 
sub-lord ts in the constellation of Mars who 1s a significator of 
house 6 or 10 er12, there will be violence and separation. Saturn 
Will put up the trials and tribulations silently. 


A native may be married in a particular dasa and after 
marriage many dasas will run. If the dasa lords are significators 
of houses 2 and 7,2 and 11 or 7 and 11, separation is not 
promised. However, a planet may be the significator of the 12" 
, 1" and 2nd houses or houses 6,7 and 8 Such a planet's dasa 
will bring disharmony and separation, because 2 and 7 are 
favourable houses and the others are unfavourable if the 
following sub-period is ruled by a planet promising reunion, 
separation will be temporary, But if the planet denotes death of 
the partner, as [wo and seven are also maraka stana, separation 
will be for ever. The significators of the sixth house bring about 
separation due to the partner going away, as 6" house is the 


KRISHNAMURT! PACGHDHATI 117 


12" to the 7", but the significators of the 12 house in the 
nativity show the native himself desiring separation. Also, if the 
significator of the 7" house is also the significator of 6 and 9 
the wife will walk away, but if of 3 and 12,the husband goes 
away. 


A boy may marry a girl in a dasa. In the same dasa, in a 
different bhukti, there may be separation. This separation is 
shown by the sub-lord who operates, whereas the dasa lord 
may have the dual role of marriage and separation. If the sub- 
period is ruled by a planet connected with harmony, they live 
together and the ruling planets at the time of her birth will be the 
lords of the dasa and the bhukthi or the lords of the constellation 
in which they are posited. When separation takes place, then 
also the period that runs will be governed by the ruling planets. 
But the lord of the sub-period will be the significator of 6 or 10 
or 12. 


Though two planets are in the same sign and star, the results 
can be quite different due to the lord of the sub. For example, A 
and B are ithe two planets in the constellation of the lord of the 
7" house. If A is in the sub of the lord or occupant of 2 or 11, he 
gets married or he meets the girl, reuniles and enjoys good 
time. 


If planet B is in the sub of lord of 12 or planets occupying 12" 
house, inthe period or sub pericd of B, there will be separation. 
Separation may be due to delivery if the lord of 12 also owns 5 
or 11; it may be due to difference of opinion, disharmony or 
displeasure if the lord of 12 also owns 7" house. If the lord of 
12 in whose sub planet B is situated, also owns 3n house, 
separation is due to short journey. Ifthe sub-lord owns 9 and 
12, separation on account of long journey higher education, 
studies, overseas trip or stay in a place other than the present 
residence. If B is, however, in the constellation of lord of 10 and 
in the sub of lord of 12, who also owns, 3, separation may be 
due to transfer or visit a holy place. If B is a malefic significator 
of 2 and 12 on the sub of lord of 12, who also owns 3 and Rahu 
has some connection with 12. separation may be due to 


18 RETROGRADE PLANT 


imprisonment, |fB is in the constellation of lord of 6 and in the 
sub of lord of 12. separation may be due to hospitalization for 
treatment. If B is a strong significater of bhadakastanam of the 
sub of lord of 12, who occupies bhadaka or maraka stana, 
separation may be due to departure from this world. 


While house 2, 7 and 11 are judged for reunion, increase in 
the number or members of the family by marriage and 
permanent tie of friendship with partner in life, the significators 
of houses 2,7 and 11 which are also significators of 1 and 6 or 
6 and 19 or 10 and 7 or 6 and 7 etc. cause divorce. Therefore, 
if the significators of 2,7 and 11 are the significators of 1,6 and 
10 separation will surely take place and will lead to divorce. 


The dasanatha is an important factor to reckon. Ifthe sub- 
lord of the dasanatha denotes separation once and for all by 
being not connected to 2,7 or 11 and being on unfavourable 
sub, depending on the sub-lord of the bhukti lord, there will be 
good or bad results in that dasa. Ifthe bhukthi is ruled by a 
benefice which is on a beneficial sub contributing to the benefit 
of the native, in the dasa of the planet which is the signiticator 
of both good and bad houses, the bhuktis of benefics on 
beneficial subs will give agreeable results. If the bhukti lords 
are on unfavourable subs, undesirable results have to be 
experienced. 


Saturn in the constellation of Venus in the 2nq house is 
connected with the members of the family. It does not mean 
only increase. If also shows decrease, depending on the bhukthi 
and antra in Saturn dasa. Any planet connected with the second 
house can increase the family if it is a significator of 11, but if 
the sub-lord is an evil significator. Signifying 8 and 12, it can 
reduce. Separation will be under pleasant circumstances if the 
sub belongs to 2 and 11; If the sub belongs to 8 and 12, 
separation will be due to difference of opinion. So, the dasa 
lord has to offer both the results as he is a signifcator of both. 


A person may get married in a particular dasa and bhukti 
and in the same dasa and bhukti, may get separated if the dasa 
and the bhukti lords are significators for marriage and 


KRISHNAMURT] PADHDHATI 119 


separation; ora person get married in a particular dasa, bhukti 
and antra and in the same conjoint period, he may get separated. 
In such a cause, the dasanatha, buktinatha and the antranatha 
will all be significators for marriage as well as separation, 
constellation showing marriage and sub denoting separation. 


lt sometimes happens that a person gets married in Adasa, 
in which the bhukti of B operates. B is very powerlul to cause 
separation, but yet it will be baffling to note that separation has 
not materialized and it just ended with misunderstanding . It is 
because the dasa lord in this case is not a significator for 
separation. The dasa lord reigns supreme and if the dasa lord 
is not a signiticator of the results which the bhukti lord is to 
give, the dasa lord will not give the result ultimately. 


Anything happening is the result of the combined effect of 
the dasa, bhukti and antra lords. Therefore, the three planets 
which are significater of 6 or 12, give separation which may 
even lead to divorce. The bhuktinatha gives result in the antra 
of another significator which denotes separation. 


Marriage 


This gentleman was married in Saturn dasa Jupiter bhukti 
Venus antra on 7-6-1964. It will be perceived from the speculum 
of significators that Moon, Kethu and Jupiter are first rate 
significators for marriage. Venus occupying the fifth house as 
lord of 2 and 7 in her own constellation is alos a strong 
significator. Saturn in 11 as lord of 11 and in the constellation of 
Rahu, who is a significator of 2 and 7 Is equally strong. Rahu is 
also a significator of 2 and 7. Moon and Jupiter are in the sub of 
saturn in 11. Venus is in Rahu sub. Rahu occupying Jupiter 
sign Sagitarius has to give the result of pisces, where the 12" 
cusp falls, and of the 7* house, where Jupiter.is posited. So 
Rahu sub is beneficial. Kethu in the sub of Mars is detrimental. 
Rahu in the sub of Mercury in 6 is unfavourable, The favourable 
planets are Jupiter, Saturn and Venus. While Venus and Jupiter 
are in quintile, there is no aspect between Jupiter and Saturn. 
So that in their conjoint period marriage was celebrated is no 
wonder. 


120 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Misunderstanding developed between the couple and they 
lived apart from each cther from the evening on Friday, 5-4- 
1974 when Mercury dasa, Moon bhukti, Saturn antra was 
operating. The dasanatha, Mercury is not connected to any of 
the houses 2,7,11 and he is in his own sub (3 and 6). Moon isa 
strong significator of 7 and less strong tor 12. As Moon is in the 
sub of Saturn, lord of 10 and 11 in 11 and indicated snapping or 
permanent tie of friendship. Kethu, a significator of 7 on the 
sub belonging to 1 and 8 can harm. Saturn is a significator of 
2,7,11,10 and 12, and he is in his own sub. Saturn has to give 
both and bad results. Houses 1,6,10 and 12 are favourable to 
cause separation. 


A significant factor that strikes me ts that Mercury in Libra, 
saturn in Aquarius, and Moon in Gemini are in signs which are 
intrine to one another, which means Mercury is in trine to Saturn 
and the Moon is in trine to both Mercury and Saturn by sign 
position. This constitutes what is called a "Grand Trine". The 
trine is the most beneticial aspect and brings matters to 
perfection without the least effort on the part of the native. But 
the grand trine, according to western authors, works powertully 
like a Square, which is adverse in nature. Thus Mercury, Moon, 
and Saturn, who are the dasa, bhukti and antra lords involved 
in the Grand Trine, will have to give only undesirable results. 
Therefore, apart from these planets being significators of 
houses aiding separation, their involvement in the Grand Trine 
hastened matters. All this is post mortem. 


What is more important and of interest is the answer to the 
query wherther or not there will be reunion. To decide this, the 
dasa lord’s significators are vital factors. Eventhough in a 
particular dasa, the bhukti and the antra lords are favourable 
significators for reunion, unless the dasa lord also has that 
portfolio, among others the dasa lotd will not ultimately give the 
result indicated by the bhukti and antra lords, because the dasa 
lord is the commander and reigns supreme. In this case, the 
dasantha, Mercury, is not a significator of any of the houses 
2,7,41 and as he is a significalor of 8,6 and 11 and as he on his 
own sub, there will not be even meetings occasionally. However, 


KRISHNAMURT! PACDHDHATI 121 


Mercury is in conjunction with Sun, lord of five, and five denotes 
pleasurable pursuits. But Sun 18 not a significator of 2,7 or 1%, 
so that he can give pleasure out of wedlock. Thus the prospect 
of reunion in Mercury dasa, which extends up to 20-6-1983 is 
shattered 


After Mercury comes Kethu dasa. Kethu is a strong 
significator for 7, It is in conjunction with Moon, another 
significator of 7. Itis less strong for 1 and 6. Houses 1 and 6 
are not favourable. Kethu is onthe sub of Mars, lord of 1 and 8 
in 8. Kethu is a malefic by sub though signifying 7 and Kethu 
dasa will not reunite the couple. 


Then follows Venus dasa Venus is the chief governer for 
marriage and she will strive for place and contribute for 
happiness wherever she is. She is lord of 2 and 7 in the fifth 
house in her own constellation. This is the most favorable 
position for reunion. Venus is on the sub of Rahu, who signifies 
12, apart from 5.2,and 7. The sub of t2 always acts like scissors 
in any matter but the sub belonging to 2,7 and 5 Is always 
beneficial. But | am inclined to think in a dirrerent way Houses 
2 and 7 are maraka stanas to Aries-borns and Venus in her 
own constellation as lord of 2 and 7? will be a strong maraka. As 
the lagna is a moveable sign, the 11" house becomes bhadaka 
stana and its lord, Saturn, lord of bhakaka stana occupying this 
house becomes more evil. Saturn signifying 12 also and being 
posited in his own sub enhances the maleficence and affects 
longevity. 


Moon and Kethu are strong significators of 7" house, The 
sub of Moon belongs to 10 and 11 and the sub of Kethu belongs 
to Mars, lord of 1 and 8 in 8. {tis stated that a planet or node on 
the sub of lord of lagna cannot be harmful. But as mars occupies 
Scorpio owned by him, where the 8" cusp falls, Mars in Scorpio 
will be in the 8" sign from the sign occupied by the lagna. Further 
Mars Is afflicting the lagna by a sesquiquadrate, a bad aspect. 
saturn and Sun are the only planets which are exempted from 
attracting the evils of being posited in the 8" house. 
Lagnadhipathi in Ayushastana may be considered good for 


122 RETROGRADE PLANT 


longevity. But Mars is in the constellation of Mercury in 6, which 
is evil. Houses 8 and 6 thus connected will work like Rajayoga 
only for matters connected with finance. For longevity it is evil. 


The principle ts: planets in 6,8,.12 to any sign or house or 
lord of the sign connected with lords of 6,8, or 12 is harmful to 
matters signified by the signs etc, to which they are in such 
bad relation and the lord of the sign so connected gets spoilt. 
On this analogy Mars in Scorpio is in 8m sign from Aries, both of 
which are owned by him. As Mars occupies the 8" sign from 
Aries, Mars is evil for lagna results. Mars in Scorpio will be 
favourable for mailers signified by scorpio, but Mars in Aries 
will be auspicious for matters signified by both Aries and Scorpio 
because of the special aspect Mars has on the 8" house. In 
the case of Venus, Venus in Libra will be favourable for matters 
indicated by Libra but not for matters of Taurus. Venus in Taurus 
will be favourable for matters of Taurus but not in respect of 
matters denoted by Libra. Mercury or Jupiter in their own signs 
will offer the results of both the signs they own. Saturn in 
Capricorn is beneficial for matters of Capricorn but is 
determental to Aquarius as Saturn will be in 12. 


lf a Node is in Aries, the Node will be advantageous for 
matters of Aries but disadvantageous for Scorpio. Matters 
denoted by Taurus will come to pass to the disadvantage of the 
native ifthe Node is in Libra, but the matters of Taurus will be 
enjoyed if the Node in such a position is to do goad If the Node 
is in Pisces or Gemini, it will give the results of both Pisces and 
Sagittarius or Gemini and Virgo as the case may be. 


so, Kethu in Mars sub is malefic. Jupiter is a strong 
significator of bhadaka stana on the sub of occupant of 
bhadakastana. Rahu occupies Jupiter sign and Is stronger than 
Jugite: Rahu is also a significator of 2 and 7 on the sub of 
Mercury in 6. All are malefics for longevity. 


The Raison d'etre of this way of thinking Is this’ If a native 
runs the conjoint period of the signiticators of 2,7,11 at the 
martriageable age, he gets married, later, when these planets 
operate together, there will be reunion in the family. But at a still 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 123 


late date, when weak significators of houses 2,7,11 who are 
also significators of 1,6,10 rule the period, there may be 
estrangement and separation from the partner or even divorce. 
lfthe planets are connected strongly with 2,7,11 the conjoint 
period of these planets occurring at the later part of life will 
cause death in the case of persons born in Aries, Cancer, Libra 
and Capricorn as lagna, because the 11" house becomes 
bhadaka stana and 2 and / are maraca stanas. 


Mars, lord of lagna is badly placed with reference to the lagna, 
the sub-lord of the lagna, Sun, occupies the constellation of 
such a Mars in 8 and the sub is ruled by Mercury in 6, Ayush 
Karaka has become bhakakda stanadhipathi in bhadaka stana. 
Thus, longevity of the native is limited to middle life. Although 
Moon and Kethu are strong significator of the 7m house and 
Moon is on the sub of bhadaka stana, as Moon is cojoined with 
Kethu, Kethu himself wilt offer what Moon has to Venus dasa 
is preferred because she is in her own constellation as lord of 
2 and 7 and onthe sub of rahu, a significator of 2 and 7. Selection 
of Rahu bhukti is not without basis. A planet in a constellation 
gives the result indicated by the lord of the constellation in its 
dasa (i.e. tenant planet's dasa) in the bhukti of the lord of the 
constellation. Conversely, when the dasa of a planet 5 on, 
planets in the constellation or on the sub of the dasa lord can 
give the result. As such, Rahu in the constellation of Venus will 
give the result in Venus dasa Rahu bhukti. There is no planet in 
the sub of Venus, Rahu in Sagittarius will represent Jupiter, 
who is a strong bhadaka. While Venus and Kethu are in sextile, 
Venus and Rahu are in trine. 


The Significators of 2,7,11 (Saturn, Jupiter and Venus) caused 
the marriage of the native at the age of 29 years; the significators 
of 2,7,11 (Moon and Saturn) who are also significators of 12 
and 10, brought about separation from wife when the native 
was 39 years old, in the dasa of Mercury, who is a significator 
of 1,4,12, and who had no connection whatever with 2 or 7 or 
11. On these considerations and in accordance with the 
principle mentioned herein before, since the native is born ina 


124 RETROGRADE PLANT 


moveable sign as lagna, the span of life will extend upto Venus 
dasa, Rahu bhukti, Kethu antra i.e. August 1999. 


May God avert the catastrophe by His benevolent grace and 
unite the couple at least in old age, whatever the prognostication 
be. 


Good Luck! 


SUB - LORD SPEAKS 


students of Krishnamurti Padhdhati, raising the query 
Mercury when and where our Guruji had used sub lord for 
finalising prediction. 


In the Ill readerwhere Sri K.S..K had repeatedly emphasized 
the usage of sublords and in his other readers also 


| give below again some of his golden sentences together 
wilh page number also for those who still entertain the idea that 
| am over doing the matter. 


Page 66 'Further a planet in the sub of an evil planet, indicates 
loss, difficulty or failure where as the same planet in the same 
star, but in the sub of a benefic promises success, gain and 
pleasure. 


The lord of the constellation may indicate the maifer of the 
Vilth house The planet in the sub of malefic causes enmity 
where as that in the sub of benefice brings in harmony and 
happiness. Also,the planet in the sub of an evil one threaten, 
loss in litigation, whereas that in the sub of a benefic indicates 
victory, even though the constellation lord denotes litigation. 


lfa planet indicates business and the planet in a benefic sub 
promises profit, whereas that in the sub of an evil one threatens 
loss. 


The lord of the constellation may show any one walk of life 
to the native. It is the sub which decides whether the area is 
advantageous or nol, and there by indicates whether the planet 
occupying there in will offer desirable results or adverse ones. 


126 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Page 127. For a Makara lagna native, ifa planet were to be 
in CHITHIRAI and according to KP system, if itis in the sub of 
Saturn then the native will surely gain and be happy because 
there will be neither delay nor disappointment. But if the same 
person has got another planet in the same star just prior to it, in 
the sub of JUPITER, this planet even though under the sway of 
Mars and indicates the matter of IV and Xl, yet it brings loss, 
failure in attempt, disappointment in life, partition and separation 
from partner efc as the sub lord is JUPITER ie. the sub is 
governed by the planet indicating matters of XII th house. 


Therefore it is necessary to note whether a planet is in the 
Sub of a planet which promises agreeable results to him or 
disadvantageous. 


Page 128: If the planet is in a constellation denoting evil 
results, but the sub lord is a benefic, then even though he may 
suffer, yet temporarily during the period he has little relief from 
the adverse results 


Page 129° But according to Krishnamurthi system, the planet 
which is considered to be a benefic by lordship offers the results 
signified by it, thro the planet deposited in its constellation. 


Benefic planets offer the results thro the depositors in their 
constellation, only when the sub is also governed by a benefic. 
Ifthe sub is ruled by a malefic, the depositors cannot bring on 
favorable results. 


For example to a scorpio born native Jupiter rules Il & V. If 
planets occupy anyone of the stars of Jupiter then the planet 
tenanted in its constellation has to offer the results indicated by 
Jupiter. 


Ifthe sub is governed by lord of XI, then the person gets a 
child. If the sub is ruled by lord of All, no child will be born during 
the period of the planet in the sub governed by lord of XII. 


Hence the planet is the source, constellation indicating nature 
of the matter and the sub is a deciding factor whether matter is 
favourable or not. 


KRISHNAMURTI PACHDHATI 12? 


Page 138& 1 39: Ifa planet signifies lagna bhava and it is in 
the sub of the significator of 8, he meets with danger. If the sub 
lord signifies All, one runs away, or injured and hospitalised. 


Therefore constellation , lord shows whom or which matter 
it refers. But the deciding factor good or bad, success or failure 
is shown by the sub occupied by the significator. 


Suppose a planet A is the significator of Il nd whereas it is in 
the sub of VI, one borrows but if it is in the sub of Vi, one 
borrows but if if is the sub of VIII or XII, he lends to others or 
repays loan. 


Suppose a planet is the significator of VII house and if tt is in 
the sub of Ill or Xl, one gains, there is reunion one gets married 
etc., if it is in the sub of the significator of XII, separation or ill 
health to wife. Ifitis in the sub of | & Il danger to partners life. 


fin the sub of IV, partner gains, makes money. 


Thus one should note separately what each planet signifies 
and in which sub each planet is posited. 


AE 13-40-27 | 19-5-19 ll 37-40-27 Il 1440-27 


Rabu 164147 
I 10-40-27 NIRAYANA BHAVA sly 1040.27 
Chakram 
Balance of 


Rin.2-46-18 j ; Vv 10-40-27 
Mer.247-50 Sun Pernod atbirth = «et 1641-47 
Sal.13-58-36 3Y-3M-2Days yee ie 
Sun 11-57-50 Jupiter (R) 
X 10-40-27 29-52-47 


Venus Vill 17-40-27] Vil 19-5-10 
20-3947 VE 1340-2? 
IX 14-40-27 


128 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Let me now substantiate the above lines of our Guruji with 
an illustration. Below is the birth chart of Sri Seshadri who has 
risen to a high status of Dy. General Manager in Central services 
from a mere class Ill entering service along with me. 


He was born at 12-16 p.m. (Noon) IST on 25-1-1933, at 
Madras 13°04'-80° 17 Ayanamsa 22°54’ — 52.9" 


Planet Sub lord Jup (r) Planet Sub lord 
sun Rahu Venus Jupiter 

Moon Jupiter satum Jupiter 

Mars Sun Rahu Venus 

Mercury — Jupiter Kethu Moon 

Jupiter Rahu 


The native of this chart was running the major penod of Jupiter- 
R dasa from 27-4-1971 - 27-4-1987. 


Jupiter is in V, and no planet in its stars and so it signifies V, 
X & Xl 


Jupiter is in the star of Sun in X owning V. So again it signifies 
X, but not V as there are planets in V. 


oumming Up Jupiter signifies V,.XI, Ail and the lord X, under 
stellar strength. 


| Know him personally while in class Ill status itself and it 
was then in the fag end of Rahu major period which ended by 
April 1971 and when the major period of Jupiter started he was 
elevated to class || status. 


During this period of 16 years, he enjoyed 3 elevations and 
finally promoted to Dy GME post during January 1985, as to he 
entered Rahu bhukti, and it was an Administrative post in 
Railways 


Thus he rose well in this period of Jupiter which ended by 
April 1987 and by then he was transferred to RITES a separate 
organization connected to Rlys under Riy.Board. 


With the significations of Jupiter such as V, |X, All & X under 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHAT! 129 


stellar strength, one cannot predict such a rise-uniess it is well 
entrenched in a powerful sub with benefic signification. 


Here, Jupiter is in sub of Rahu. Rahu is in its own star in Al 
and as node Rahu represents Saturn in 4 owning % & Xl. As 
Jupiter thro star signifies V and thro sub X & XI and so he had 
his children well educated and got them well settled 
occupationally. 


As Jupiter signifies IX & AI also under stellar status and X & 
Al thro sub, has given him heavy overseas travelling and he used 
to tell me that he had travelled all round the world under official 
capacity. (Almost all European countries & USA). 


As Jupiter signifies Xth under stellar status and X & XI thro 
Sub, he has risen from class Ill to junior administrative rank in 
this period. 


As further it was the bhukti of Rahu from 7-12-84 to 27-4-87. 


Rahu is in its own star in Al and so under stellar strength, he 
acquires the Xtth signification and as NODE represents Saturn 
in X and so he js a full signifiacator of X & Al Under stellar 
Strength As itis in the sub of Venus signifying Il & IX, he was 
negated to get the senior administrative status though more 
was expected by him (IX negates rise professionally). 


Then he started the major period of Saturn on 27-4-87 & itis 
for 19 years [twas Saturn bhukti from 27-4-87 to 30-4-90. 


saturn is in the star of Moon in IX and no planet in Saturn 
stars. Here under stellar strength it attains IV, IX,X significations. 


The native was elevated to Dy.General Manager status by 
June 1987 in the period of a planet signifying IV & IX, which are 
detrimental for elevation to such a status. 


Then how? Saturn is in the sub of Jupiter stationed in the 
star of Sun in X and so thro sub it gets X signification and hence 
this elevation of enviable status. 


| know Mr Seshadri simply as a class lI staff in Rlys. In the 


130 RETROGRADE PLANT 


early years, just equal to my status, and he has risen to 
Dy General Manager status and retired, | shall explain how all 
the planets are beneficial and elevated him materially as they 
were stationed in beneficial SUBS with good signification. 


Stellar Strength Planet Sub Strength Thro Sub 
NM, IX sun Rahu X1&X 

x Moon Jupiter XV AI 

|, VIL, X Mars Sun M & IX 

Id, VI, DX, Mercury Jupiter X,V,Xtl 

XV, All Jupiter Rahu XI &x 

lI, Vill, IX Venus Jupiter X,V_XIl 

IV, IX, X satum Jupiter X,V,Xll 

X, Xl Rahu Venu li, Vil, IX 

LV Vil, IX Ketu Moon x 


; 

50 from the break up of the above figures, you may please 
note that every planet. except Mars, is getting at least 2 beneficial 
signification, thro sub and so the native had risen so well in his 
material life. 


SEX AND TIME OF CHILD BIRTH 


The horary chart given below for the number 117 belongs to 
my house owner's wife. She was married early in 1973 and till 
date she has no issues. She wanted to know astrological ly 
whether; she will have issues and if so the time and sex of the 
child birth in advance. The details are as follows:- 


Details: 
No: given (between 1 and 249) is -117 
Date of judgement — 19-4-1976. 
Time — 8.45 p.m. 
Place - Madras 
Ayanamsa - 23° 25' 
Balance in Venus dasa 16 years 0 M 2/days. 


Ray. 16-16 

Jup.12-15 

Viretea0 VII 18-03 IX 18-03 
Ket.22 


__Mer.23-50 


Sat.3-5 
VI 18-03 XI 17-03 


xii 18-03 


lV 17-03 , 
Moon 17-57 It 18-03 


132 


Nirayana Horary - chart: 


Planetary positions: 


RETROGRADE PLANT 


Planets Sign lord Star lord Sub lord 
sun Mars Kethu Rahu 
Moon Jupiter Venus oun 
Mars Mercury Jupiter saturn 
Mercury Mars Venus Saturn 
Jupiter Mars Kethu Mercury 
Venus Jupiter Mercury Venus 
saturn Moon Jupiter Rahu 
Rahu Venus Jupiter Jupiter 
Kethu Mars Venus Rahu 
Cuspal Positions:- 

Cusp Sign lord Star lord Sub lord 
i Venus Rahu sun 

V saturn Moon saturn 
Xl Moon Mercury Mercury 


Analysis:- The chart under discussion belongs to a lady. 
Hence consideration on Vth cusp is necessary. This cusp rules 
many things and “Progeny” comes under the preview of this 
cusp. This cusp clearly indicates the result of the query. 


According to K-P. the sublord of the Vth cusp should not be 
retrograde. It should not be posited in the constellation of a 
retrograde planet and lastly the suBlord should be a significator 
of houses 2,5 and 11. These three conditions should be 
simulateously satisfied forthe prospect of childbirlh. Jupiter also 
should be considered as he is the chief governor for childbirth 


In the charl under discussion, the Vth cusp falls in Capricorn 
sign, in Moon star and Saturn sub. The sublord Saturn is the 
lord of Vth house. He is in the constellation of Jupiter, the 
“puthrakaraka” and inthe sub of Rahu an occupant of 2na house. 
No planet is in Saturn's star and hence Saturn is the strong 


KRISHNAMURT! PAGHDRATI 139 


significator of the Vth house and the childbirth is promised, Child 
birth when? 


Il House - Rahu in this house. None occupies Rahu's star. 
Venus is the lord of this (2) house. Moon, Mercury and Kethu 
are in Venus star. 


No planet is in the 5" house. Saturn is the lord of this house. 
No planet is in Saturn's star. 


Xlth house - No planet in this house Moon owns the 11" 
house No planet occupies Moon's star. 


Jupiter also is to be taken as a significator as he is a ‘Karaka’ 
for progency and he is aspecting the 2na house. 


Hence the significator of the houses 2,5 & 11 are Rahu, 
Moon, Mercury, Venus, Kethu, Saturn & Jupiter. 


Ruling Planets:- 


Day lord (M ond ay} - Moon 
Moon Rasi lord (Dhanus)  -Jupiter 
Moon star lord (Pooradam) - Venus 


Moen sub lord - Sun 
Lagna (Scorpio) - Mars 
Lagna star (Anuradha) - Saturm 
Lagna sublord - Sun 


Hahu represent Venus 
Kethu represent Mars. 


Hence common significators are Venus, Moon and Rahu. At 
the time of judgement, the querent is running Venus dasa Moon 
Bhukthi up to 16-5-78. Guru Anthra begins from 11-3-77 to 1-6- 
77 Rahu Sookshama period from 19-5-77 to 1-6-77. All these 
periods are favourable for child birth. Hence | pitched upon 
Venus dasa, Moon Bhukthi, Guru Anthra and Rahu Sookshama 
as all the above planets are also found as ruling planets, and | 
predicted to the querent that she will be blessed with a child 
between 19-5-77 to 1-6-77 


134 RETROGRADE PLANT 


9ex of the child: The sex of the child can be determined by 
the Vth cusp. The sign and sublord of the Vth cusp is owned by 
saturn. He is in the constellation of Jupiter in Aries, a male sign. 
Hence | told her that she will be blessed with a son. 


Result:- As predicated, the lady delivered a male child on 
28-5-1977 at 10,00 P.M. in the night. The day was Saturday 
ruled by Saturn, The Moon was transiting in Virgo ruled by 
Mercury. He is in the star of Hastham’ ruled by Moon. The lagna 
was Gapricorn ruled by Saturn. Thus all the significators at the 
time of query happened to be the ruling planets at the time of 
child birth. 


Such as accurate predictions well in advance (i.e) one year 
before can possible only through KP. with great respects to 
out “Guruji". 


Good Luck 


HORARY ASTROLOGY - 
_ MAJOR EVENT _ 


A person said "Sir-now | am serving in a Library. Last month 
{ had three interviews in three different departments for service, 
can you fell (A). Whether ! will leave the present post’? And (B) 
which department | may join? 


"Mention a number within 108." 
"96 is the reply". 
The chart for that moment is as under:- 


Rahu 10-30 


ASC 16-40 to 
e000 
Sani 1750 


— 


Venus 9-18 


Mer 102 


Kethu 10-31 
Sun 24-58 


136 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Moon is called “Mathi" it guides the astrologer to know what 
question the person will put what he has in his mind. Moon's in 
19° 50’ in Gemini that is in Mercury sign Rahu's star Mars sub 
and Venus sub sub. Mercury is in the ninth bhava even though 
it is in the 10" house. Rahu, the star lord is in the 3° bhava, 
therefore Mercury and Rahu indicate the matters signified by 
the 9" and 3" houses. These two bhavas are for changes i.e., 
change of profession, change of place etc. If the change is to 
come, the sub will be ruled by a benefic.Mars is lord of 10; itis 
in 11, therefore he is a strong benefic As the sub lord is Mars 
his desire will be surely fulfilled. So also we have to take the 
lagna and find out, whether there will be a change to a desired 
department. The lagna according to his number 96, has fallen 
between 16.40 to 20 00 in Aquarius; this sub portion of 
sathabisha, is ruled by Venus, Sun, Moon and Mars. All these 
four aré occupying beneficial houses promising a change. 
Therefore that he will not continue in the present department is 
certain. 


Profession or self-acquistion is to be judged from the houses 
2.6 and 10 So one is to judge and select the strong significators 
in the following order as prescribed by my Guruji Krishnamurtl. 


1.The planets in the constellation of the occupants of the 
houses 2,6 and 10; these are the strongest. 


2. [he occupants of the 2,6 and 10 houses. These come 
next. 


3. The planets in the constellations of lord of the houses 2,6 
and 10, These are stronger. 


4 The lords of those houses. But weaker than 1 and 2 items. 


5. The planets conjoined with the significators and those 
receiving good aspects from the significators. 


No planet is in 2,or 6 Sun alone is in the 10” house. It may 
appear that Mercury and Kethu are also in the 10”, but they are 
in 9" Bhava, or house. Sun rules Krithika, Uttara and 
Uttarashada Mars and Venus are in Uttarashada. So Mars and 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 137 


Venus are the significators. They are stronger than any other 
significator. 


Lords of 2,6 and 10 are Mars, Jupiter and Moon. Mars rules 
Mrigashira, Chittirai and Dhanishta. No Planet is in the above 
Stars. Jupiter rules Punaravasu, Vishakah and Purva 
Bhadrapada. There, is no planet in these stars. Moon rules 
Hastham, Rohini and Sravanam. Rahu is in Rohini star. So 
Rahu Is a significator. Nodes are more powerful than the planets. 
so Rahu is a strong significator. Therefore Rahu, Mars, Venus 
and Sun are the significators. 


lf a boy is born on the above data at the time of query, how 
we calculate the Dasa and Bhukii left over at the time of birth, 
so also work the balance of the dasa. Now he is running Rahu 
Dasa Mars Bhukti. So when will the change be? A "Dasa" B 
"Bhukti" ‘Care the strong significators. Rahu Dasa Mars Bhukti 
Venus Anthra is beneficial so he has to receive the orders in 
this period which will end on 13-1-1966. During this period, 
Moon is to transit in Sun's star in the sub of Venus; (in this 
instance, it will conjoin with Rahu) that will be the date. On 4" 
January 1966 Moon conjoins Rahu. The day is ruled by Mars, 
The lord of the star Krithika is ruled by Sun. On the same day 
sun will be transiting in the constellation and sub of the 
significator, Venus star Rahu's sub and Mars sub-sub. So on 
4" January 1966 he will receive the orders from L.I.C. Actually 
the person received the orders on the same day, from Life 
Insurance Corporation. 


Why? 


Because 10' house is occupied by Sun and aspected by 
Saturn. Sun is for security in service, Saturn for "Mritha-Dhana" 
money of the deceased Life Insurance (Uthra-Kalamritna). Sun 
in the constellation Jyeshta ruled by lord of 8 Budha and 8" 
house denotes (death and legacy) Life Insurance. Further 
scorpio is the 8 sign of the Zodiac. Thus one is to analyse, 
judge and be useful to humanity. 


| pray God to give a long life to my Guru SriK.S.Krishnamurt 


138 RETROGRADE PLANT 


who has given us correct scientific method clearly without 
confusion. Other methods and symposium are similar to 
supplying chilly salt, sugar, tamarind etc., separately and leaving 
the person to select, prepare and have it, But this padhdhati 
shows only one way wilh no contradiction; leading one to the 
goal straight, in such a simple way without laborious Shadbhala, 
and unreliable Ashtaka Varga. 


HORARY ASTROLOGY _- 


One of my relatives was married on 13-86-1966. The lagna 
for marriage was fixed as Mithuna lagna. It was between 5-45 
A.M. to 7.45 A.M. approximately on 13-6-1966 which was a 
Mionday. Since the Muhurtham was at early morning, | joined 
the marriage party on the previous day itself. 


On 12° night, one of the important member of the party was 
consulting an astrologer to select an auspicious moment in 
Mithuna Lagna, so that the marriage or actual Muhurtham may 
be arranged at that particular moment. The horoscope of the 
bride is given as below: 


Moon 
91740" 


Jupiter {Ri} 
™ Born at 11-45 P.M. 


On 25-7-1938 


Rasi Chart Venus 20°19 
Mercury 9°28" 


140 RETROGRADE PLANT 
Balance of Rahu dasa 11 months and 14 days. 


The Astrologer who was being consulted followed traditional 
system of astrology and selected a particular time. 


| saw the bride's chart. The bride was running Saturn Dasa, 
Moon bhukti at the time of marriage Therefore | predicted that 
when lagna will touch the natal position of Moon, the bhukti lord 
at 7-16 A.M. the marriage will take place, [he astrologer did not 
agree. | wanted to find out whether my prediction is correct. At 
the time of prediction lagna was Aquarius Kumbha. | was born 
in the lagna Libra Thulam. At the time of prediction fifth bhava 
rises in the east. Will it indicated success to me or fo the other 
astrologer? 


Since my lagna is Libra-Thulam, the other astrologer's lagna 
is to be taken as Aries-Mesha, the 7th house counted from my 
lagna. 5" Bhava is 11"to the 7", therefore must give success 
to the other astrologer and my prediction must go wrong. 


Further Moon was transiting Hevathi star ruled by Mercury. 
Mercury Is the lord of Virgo-Kanni which the 12m Bhava indicated 
failure to me. Moon was in the sub of Jupiter Jupiter is the lord 
of Pisces-Meena which is the 6" house from my lagna Libra- 
Thulam. 6* house is the 12" house fo 7" (competitor) indicates 
loss to the opponent cr competitor etc.. and gain to the native. 
Therefore ultimate success is promised to me. 


| began to analyse the horoscope turther to findout the exact 
moment when the native must get married. At 6-42 A.M. on 13- 
6-66 in Mithuna-Gemini lagna, lagna transits 80-56’, when it 
forms trine aspect with the 7" cusp. | wanted to confirm this. 
So I tried Horary Astrology. 


!gave anumber 72 for my query tofind out the exact moment 
of marriage and arrived at the.same result. The analysis 
according to Horary Astrology is as below. 


What does the na 72 indicate’? How the accurate prediction 
is based on merely mentioning a number with in 108 The idea 
of asking to give a number within 108. is that the zodiac is divided 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHAT| 141 


into 108 equal parts each extending to 3°20’ It is also equal to 
one quarter of star No. 72 indicates the region of 236°40 counted 
from Aries 0°. It is the fourth quarter of the star Kettai, in the 
sign Scorpio-Vrischika. 


Find out the lords of this sign, star and sub for the region 
indicated by the given number. Lord of the sign Scorpio- 
Vrischika is Mars, The star Kettai 1s ruled by Mercury. 4" quarter 
in this star includes the sub of Saturn as well as Jupiter. 


since the matter under consideration is to take place within 
a few hours, (analysis made at 11 P.M on 12" and Muhurtham 
(marriage) is to take place around 6 A.M. next morning) take 
the transit of the ascendant. 


Ascendant must transit at a sensitive point or degree of the 
Zodiac so as to be governed by the planets indicated by the 
number mentioned by the querist in a definite manner illustrated 
below. 


The lord of the sign and star according to the number 
mentioned must rule the sensitive degree to be transited by the 
lagna at the time of marriage. One of the sub lords must also 
rule 


For the number given Mars is lord of the sign (No.72, Scorpio 
sigtn, Kettai star, Saturn or Jupiter sub). Mercury is the star 
lord, So Mars and Mercury must rule Jupiter and Saturn are 
the sub lords Any one of them must rule So select (a) Mars, 
and Mercury and Jupiter or (b} Mars, Mercury and Saturn 
(combination as above). 


Lagna for marriage ts fixed as Gemini Mithuna owned by 
Mercury In this select a zone governed by the above 
combination. We have the star Mrigasira 2na half in Mercury 
sign. (Mars star.) Select Jupiter or Saturn sub. But we do not 
have Jupiter or Saturn sub in the second half of Mrigasira. So 
reject this combination. In Mercury's sign Virgo-Kanni we have 
got the star Punarvasu ruled by Jupiter So slelect Mercury sign, 
Jupiter star, Mars, sub since Mars also must rule Once again 


142 RETROGRADE PLANT 


we find mars sub in Jupiter star Punarvasu goes to Cancer- 
Kalaka 


Mars and Rahu are posited (at the time of analysis) in the 
sign Taurus-Rishaba along with Sun. Rahu is nearer to Mars 
than Sun. Rahu is node. Therefore replace Mars by Rahu. Now 
we are left with three combinations: (a) Mercury, Rahu (star) 
Jupiter, (b) Mercury, Rahu Saturn, (c) Mercury, Jupiter, Rahu 
(sub) We do not have Rahu sub in Jupiter's star Punarvasu in 
Mercury's sign Gemini Mithuna because Rahu's sub falls in 
Cancer-Kataka. 


Therefore one must select Mercury sign Rahu star, either 
Jupiter sub or Saturn sub. Final Step is to decide as to which 
Sub is to be selected? Jupiter sub or Saturn sub? Actually when 
lagna transits in Jupiter sub and Saturn sub, lagna forms trine 
aspect with the 7" cusp in the bride's horoscope. Therefore |! 
selected 6-32 A.M. i.e. around 9° in Mithuna to be transited by 
the Ascendant at the moment of marriage. 


| waited patiently till that time, only to see thal the marriage 
(exact time of Muhurtha) was 6.32 a.m. Timing did not fail, not 
even by a minule. 


| took the bridgroom’s horoscope. He was running on that 
day Rahu dasa, Saturn Bhukti, Mercury Anthra and Jupiter 
sookshama. The marriage took place exactly when lagna 
transited in Mercury sign Gemini-Mithuna, Rahu star, Arudhra, 
Jupiter's sub and in the sub sub of Saturn. Look at, how the 
lord of the dasa, bhukti. anthra and sookshama governs the 
exact moment of Marriage. That is the accuracy of 
KRISHNAMURTHI PADHDHAT. 


| have to say that no other methed can give the result so 
correctly as this, correct to the minute. This is scientific, simple 
Straight forward and successful. 


RULING PLANETS REVEAL 
(TIMING OF MINOR EVENTS) 


Before discussing what the ruling planets can signify and 
how best we can make use of them it is better to understand 
what we mean by ‘Ruling Planets’. Suppose, a persen puts a 
question to an astiologer. First of all, the Astrologer should note 
the moment when he take the horoscope for analysis and 
judgement. The moment is governed by certain planets. 


What are they called? 
They are termed as "Ruling Planets". They are as under : 


1. Lord of the Day : For exampie if it is a Sunday, lord of the 
day is SUN. 


2. Lord of the Star: Find out in which star, Moon transits at 
the time of analysis. The planet governing that star will be the 
ruling planet. Suppose it is Poorvashada. Lord of the 
constellation is Venus. 


3. Lord of the Rasi : The planet owning the sign in which 
Moon transits at the time of judgement, is also one of the ruling 
planets. These three are the strongest. (As Poorvashada is in 
Sagittarius, the Lord is Jupiter). 


4. Lord of the Lagna : One should note, at the time of analysis 
the sign in which the Ascendant transits. Lord of the sign in 
which Lagna falls becomes another ruling planet. 


lf a node becomes a ruling planet by governing the 
constellation as it has no day allotted to it, no sign allotted to tt, 
one has to necessarily include (a) the planet conjoined with the 
node, (b) the planet aspecting the node (c) lord of the star and 


144 RETROGRADE PLANT 


(d} lord of the sign occupied by the node, in the above order of 
strength. 


(Editor's note : Ifa node is conjoined with a ruling planet 
nede is stronger than the planet, or if it is aspected by a ruling 
planet take, the node, or if it is in either of the signs of the ruling 
planet, take the node as a stronger significator If a node is in 
either of the signs belonging to a planet and if the node is a 
significaor, it will offer the results of both the signs owned by 
the lord of the sign Suppose a node is in the second house to 
Pisces Lagna Itis not conjoined with or aspected by any planet. 
Then it gives the results of Mars which owns Aries and Scorpio 
where the cusps of 2nd and 3" houses fall. So the node will 
bestow the results indicated by second and ninth houses. 


The ruling planets indicate the time of frutification of the query, 
no matter, whether the querry relates to minor events or major 
events. At the time when a person will run the conjoined period 
of the ruling planets, the query will be fulfilled. The time of 
fructification will be ruled by the ruling planets at the moment of 
judgment. 


Following is an illustration of the above fact relating to a minor 
event. 


| was to make journey along with my sister on 1-6-66. The 
train is scheduled to leave the station at 5.30 p.m. 


My sister went to the market to purchase a few articles and 
was to return home at 3 O'clock "to prepare for the journey. | 
was Waiting for her but she did not turn until 3.30 p.m. It was 
getting late. 


| wanted to find out astrologically as to wnen she would reach 
home. It was my first astrological analysis of the time for the 
day. According to KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI the ruling 
planets at the moment of query should indicate my sister's 
return from the Market as | have this urge, then. The ruling 
planets are as below : 


1. The day was Wednesday ruled by Mercury. 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 145 


2. The star in which Moon was transiting at the time of query 
was Visakam ruled by Jupiter. 


3. The sign in which Moon transited was Libra-Thulam ruled 
by Venus. 


4. The lagna rising at the time of query was Libra-Thulam 
ruled by Venus. 


Therefore the ruling planets are Venus, Jupiter and Mercury. 


It is already stated that if a node occupies the sign owned by 
a significator, the node also becomes a significator. Rahu 
occupies Tarus - Rishaba ruled by the significator Venus. So, 
the planets ruling the degree to be transitted by the Ascendant 
at the time of fructification of the query are Mercury, Venus, 
Jupiter and also Rahu. 


since the matter relates only to a minor event, to take place 
within a few hours, the transit of the Ascendant is considered. 


The next star to rise in the east was Swathi ruled by Rahu. 
At the time of query Chitrai star was raising in th east in the 
sign Libra - Thulam ruled by the significator Venus. But the 
Star is ruled by Mars which Is not a significator. So reject Chitral. 
owathi, the next star governed by Rahu which is a significator 
should be selected; in that constellation select the sub portion 
governed by Jupiter. Jupiter sub is selected because mercury 
is represented by Rahu, who along with Mercury occupied 
Taurus - Rishaba sign. (The sub sub of the star may be 
Mercury). 


At 3-44 P.M. Rahu's star Swathi was rising in the east. The 
sub which was rising in the east was governed by Jupiter. The 
sign was Libra - Thulam ruled by Venus. 


Actually, when my sister arrived, the Ascendant was 
transiting in the sub sub of Mercury, in the sub of Jupiter in the 
star Swathi ruled by Rahu in the sign Libra-Thulam governed 
by Venus. The time was 3 hours 57 minutes and a few seconds 
PM. She was to return at 3 p.m. but she came back only at 3- 
57 P.M. 


146 RETROGRADE PLANT 


lf one adopts the most simple principles propounded in 
KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI, with scientific and convincing 
reasoning, without taking anything for granted, one is bound to 
become correct and be a useful and a good Astrologer. 


(Editor's note :- By doing such experiments on minor events, 
one can predict the major ones. One's sister has gone, say, to 
America. To find out when she would return, in how many years, 
months and days, take dasa, bhukti system. If she is to return 
ina few years, take transit of Jupiter, if ina few months, consider 
the transit of Sun. \fin afew days, follow the transit of Moon : if 
in a few hours within 24 hours, work out the position of ascendant 
and calculate the time when that part of the Zodiac will rise in 
the east. Each degree and minute of the Zodiac is governed by 
(1) Sign lord, (2) Star lord and (3) the sub lord. The above method 
is to predict, taking the moment when the urge is there to answer 
a question) 


== —~! _ 


The horoscope of a gentleman born on 9-9-1933 at 11.35 
a.m. is given below The analysis to find out the time of marriage 
of the native is described below. 


The horoscope. 


Rasi Chart 
Mar21°46 
Sun 23°46" 
Kethu 546° 


Saturn (R) 
PS" * 


Jupiter 7°02" 
Asc. 12°26 amas Venus 
16°31 39°40) 


Mars 


Balance of Venus Dasa at the time of birth 3 years 10 months 
and 16 5 days. 


Before analysis, one should note the exact time, when the 
horoscope is taken for analysis. The time of analysis is 9-10 
a.m. on 17-6-66, a Friday. 


148 RETROGRADE PLANT 


First of all, oné should note down whether lagna is strong or 
the Moon sign Lagna 15 12° 26' Scorpio-Vrischika. Mars rules 
scarpio-Vrichika. It is placed in Libra-Thulam, which 12” to 
Lagna Bhava. Therefore lagna is weak. Moon is placed in Aries 
-Mesha Mars, the lord of the sign aspects its own sign aries- 
Mesha by 7"aspect. Therefore Moon sign is strong. Take Aries- 
Mesha as 1stBhava and scrutinize the horoscope. 


One can also find out the stronger of the two, lagna and 
Micon sign by following KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI. Find out 
the ruling planets. The ruling planets are . 


1. Venus : Lord of the day. Today is Friday. 

2. MOON : Lord of the star Rohini. 

3. VENUS : Lord of the Rasi Taurus - Rishaba 
4. MOON : Lord of the lagna Cancer - Kataka. 


Lagna is not connected with Venus or Moon in the horoscope. 
But moon is in Bharani ruled by Venus, Therefore take Moon 
Sign to be stronger. 


2™ Bhava indicates family. 7" Bhava indicates legal bondage 
with other sex and permanent tie. 11" Bhava indicates 
matrimonial happiness, pleasure etc. Therefore the Bhavas 2, 
f/ and 11 counted from Moon sign,sign must be analysed and 
the signifying planets for marriage must be selected following 
the universal rule as given below in the following order. Finally 
assess the strength of the planets. In the conjoined period of 
the strong significators marriage must take place if transit results 
agree. 


The significators are - 


(a)Planets in the constellation of the occupants of the Bhavas 
2,7 and 11. 


(b)Planets deposited in the Bhavas 2, 7 and 11 
( 


c)Planets in the constellation of the lord of the bhavas 2, 7 
and 11. 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHAT| 149 
{djLords of 2,7 and 11 


{e}Planets aspected by the significators. 


secret such as conjoined period of the significators, when 
the significators (a) transit in the sign, star or sub of the 
significators (b) form good aspect with their natal position. 


oun, Moon and lagna transiting the sensitive zone of the 
Zodiac governed or aspected by relevant significaors or cusps 
shall pin-point the moment of marriage. 


(aJ)Second Bhava is 24° Aries - Mesha to 24° Taurus - 
Rishaba. No planet is positied in this zone Jupiter alone aspects 
Taurus - Rishaba by its 9" aspect since it is placed in 7° Virgo- 
Kanni. No planet is posited in any ofJupiter's stars. Therefore 
take Jupiter as a strong significator. (Rule B) Mercury is in the 
Sub of Jupiter, in the star Pooram ruled by Venus which owns 
the houses 2 and 7. Mercury and Jupiter become signiftcators 


7' Bhava is from 24° Libra - Thulam to 24° Scorpio - 
Vrischika. No planet is posited nor aspects this Bhava 


11° Bhava extends from 24° Aquarius-umba to 24° Pisces- 
Meena. Rahu ts placed tn this Bhava. Mars alone is posited tn 
owathi star ruled by Rahu's stars. Mars aspects Rahu by its 
108° aspect. Therefore Rahu isa stronger significtor than Mars. 
Further Venus, the Karaka planet and also lord of 2na and 7” 
bhava is in trine aspect with Rahu. So Rahu is a strong 
significator. 


Whenever a node becomes a significator, the planets 
conjoined with it, aspected by it owning the house in which the 
nede is posited become significators. Saturn whe owns 
Aquarius-Kumba in which Rahu is placed also becomes a 
signiticator Besides that Saturn is lord of the 11" Bhava. It is 
placed in its own sub Venus, the KARAKA planet aspects 
saturn by its 108° aspect. Therefore Saturn is a significator 


We have Rahu, Saturn, Mercury and Jupiter as strong 
significators One need not apply rules (c) and (d). In the 


150 RETROGRADE PLANT 


conjoined periods of Rahu, Saturn. Mercury and Jupiter when 
these planets transit and Jupiter favourably, the marriage will 
take place. 


The native actually got married on 13-6-66 when he was 
running rahu Dasa, Saturn Bhukti, Mercury Anthra and Jupiter 
sookshama. Bukthinatha Saturn transits in Pisces-Meena 
Jupiter's sign, the star Uttirattathi ruled by itself. Mercury was 
transiting in its own sign GEMENI-MITHUNA, in the star Arudhra 
ruled by dasaanathra Rahu. Jupiter, the other significator also 
transited in the same region. The natal Saturn aspected 
transitory Saturn by its third aspect. 


Moon transited in Revathi star, ruled by Mercury and in the 
Sign Pisces-Meena ruled by Jupiter. 


The time of marriage was 6-32 A. M. on 13-6-66. The lagna 
was GEMINI-MITHUNA ruled by Mercury Lagna at the time of 
mamage transited around (B°56'-1°26") in Gemini-Mithuana. This 
region is governed by Mercury, lord of the sign Gemini. Rahu, 
lord of the star Arudhra. Jupiter the lord of the sub and Saturn 
and Jupiter the lord of the sub and Saturn and Jupiter Lord of 
the sub sub of the star rising in the east. It is worthy to note that 
Lagna degree was governed by lords of dasa, Bhukti anthra 
and sookshama. 


In the bride's horoscope lagna at the moment of marriage 
formed trine aspect with seventh cusp It wil be noticed that the 
above analysis based on KRISHNAMURT| PADHDHAT!I agrees 
100% with actual happenings even in the minute details. such 
a verification in each chart considering, each matter has 
convinced the followers. 


SATURN OFFERS 
SALE OF VEHICLE 


Querry : - 
Sir, 


My daughter's marriage is fixed. But | do not have ready 
cash or bank balance. | intend selling my vehicle or house and 
celebrate the matrimonial ceremony. Will you kindly tell me, 
sir, whether | will sell my vehicle or house? And when? The 
following is my horoscope : 


Mars 11-15 
Kethu 16-15 


a = — 


Salum 12-18 
Sun 17-20 


Lagna 10-51 
Mer, 7-16 
Ven. 1348 


152 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Answers :- 
Respected Sir, 


/odiacal signs are devided into twelve bavas or houses. Each 
house indicates a certain human activity. Indications of a house 
will prosper only when the lord of the house is favourably 
situated from the concerned house. In addition to this the 
aspects to that house and the strength of the lord should be 
thoroughly scrutinized. 


Your lagna is Leo. Lord of lagna is very unfavourably placed 
inthe 72" house and is also in conjunction with Saturn. He is 
also placed in the constellation, Aslesha ruled by Mercury, who 
is malefic for Leo borns, Lagna bhava or 1st house is posited 
by Mercury and Venus whe are malefics and receives, no 
beneficial aspect Therefore your lagna is weak. 


So the position of Moon should be taken into consideration 
in preparation of the bhava chart or house division. 


Now you have asked about the vehicle and its sale. You have 
also asked about the sale of house. 


Vehicles or vehicular comfort is indicated by the 4" house. 
Vehicles negation or loss or sale of vehicles is indicated by the 
3nd house which is 12" house to the 4° house. 


Vehicular property is considered as movable property. All 
movable property such as cash, ornaments, vehicles et., is 
indicated by 2™ house which is house of wealth. The negation 
of movable property or liquidation of movable property is 
indicated by the 7" house which is 12" house to the 2nd house. 


The person with whom the native comes into any kind of 
transaction is denoted by the 7th house. His vehicles or vehicular 
comfort is denoted by your 10" house which is 4* house 
(vehicles) to the 7* house. His acquisition of movable property 
is denoted by your 8" house which is 2naq house (movable 
property) to the 7" house. 


Therefore houses 1, 3, 8 and 10 are to be considered for 
sale of vehicles. Venus is significator for vehicles. 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHATI 153 


House property is otherwise called fixed or immovable 
property, which is denoted by the 4" house. Any negation or 
sale of immovable property ts indicated by 3" house. 


The purchaser is indicated by 7" house. His house property 
or purchase of immovable property is indicated by your 10" 
house which is 4" house to the 7'"" house. 2™ house is called 
house of acquisition. The purchaser's acquisition is denoted 
by your 8" house your loss of house property is indicated by 
YOUr 3a house. The purchaser's games are denoted by your 
5" house which is 11 ™ house (Gains) to the 7" house, 


Therefore houses 3, 5, 8 and 10 are to be considered for 
sale of house property Mars is karaka or significator for house. 


The significators are : 


1. Planets posited in the constellations of the occupants 
of the concerned houses. 


Planets posited in the concerned houses. 


Planets posited in the constellations of the lords of 
houses concerned. 


4 Planets who are lords of the concerned houses 


Planets who are conjoined with or aspected by the 
significators 


1* house is not occupied by any planet. 3ra house is 
also not occupied by any planet. 


8h house is vacant. 10" house is also vacant. 


Lord of 1" house is Saturn. Pushyam, Anuradha, and 
Uttarabhadra are ruled by Saturn. Saturn himself is posited in 
Pushyam. Lord of 3 house is Jupiter who rules the 
constellations Punarvasu, Visakha and Poorvabhadra No planet 
is posited in any of these constellations Lord of 8" house is 
sun who rules the constellations Krittika, Uttara Pulguni and 
Uttarashada No planet is posited in these constellations Lord 


154 RETROGRADE PLANT 


of 10" house is Venus Venus rules Bharani, Poorva Phutgun 
and Poorvashada Venus herself is posited in Poorvaphulguni. 
Rahu is posited in Poorvashada. Therefore Saturn, Venus and 
Rahu are signiticators to cause sale of vehicle. 


5'" house is occupied by Mars and Kethu. Mrigasira, Chitra 
and Dhanista are ruled by Mars. No planet is posited in any of 
thse constellations Aswani, Magha and Moola are ruled by kethu. 
Mercury is posited in Magha. No planet is posited in the 
constellation of Jupiter who rules Ga house. No planet is posited 
in the constellation of Sun who rules 8" house, Venus and Rahu 
are posited in the stars of Venus who rules 70" house. Therefore 
Mercury, Venus and Rahu are significators to cause sale of 
house. 


You are now under the major period of Saturn and in the sub 
period of Saturn. Saturn is posited in the constellation. 
Pushyami,ruled by himself. Therefore Saturn is to offer the 
results of 1% house and 2nd house predominantly. 1st house is 
negation of movable property; It is also to indicate exhaustion 
of liquid cash; Itis to offer nil balance Saturn is significator to 
cause sale of vehicle Mercury, Venus and Rahu are significators 
to cause sale of house As you are running Saturn period of 
saturn is not significator to cause sale ofhouse, | wish to inform 
you that you can not sell the house and celebrate the marriage 
of your daughter But you are sure to lose your' vehicle, as 
saturn, the ruling planet offers sale of vehicle. 


When you will sell the vehicle? 


Saturn enters Uttarabhadra constellation on 11-5-66 and will 
transit his own sub upto 9-6-66 About this time you will be under 
the sway of sub sup period of Rahu, in the sub period of Saturn 
in the major period of Saturn. Sun is the enciting planet. He 
transits the sub of Rahu on 74-5-66and 715-5-86coinciding the 
transit of Moon in Sathabhisha on 14-5-66, Saturday. 


The ruling planetary lord and the luminanes are in a favourable 
position and therefore your wish to sell the vehicle will be 
completed on Saturday, the 14'° May, 1966 between 10AM 
and 12 noon 


APPOINTMENT - WHEN? 


Astrology is undoubtedly a useful science. To make it more 
useful to one and all, is the task before intelligent astrologers of 
to-day Generally the birth chart, which indicates the planetary 
positions at the time of birth forms the basis of future predictions. 


For those who do not have their birth chart correct predictions 
must be given for, they must not be at a loss of not knowing 
their time of birth. The author of this magazine, after patient 
and useful research has found out a simple method of prediction, 
which has been appreciated by one and all to give precise 
answers invariably, to a question of any sort. | wish to place 
before such readers who have aptitude to study this technique. 
| have taken care to write this in such a manner so that even 
those who do not know A, B, C of astrology can learn this 
technique to their advantage and be useful to one and all. 


Ruling Planets . The quérist approaches the astrologer to 
ask a query. Supposing, the client is the first person to approach 
the astrologer for the day. the astrologers must note down the 
ruling planets at the moment of answering the query. What Is 
meant by "the ruling planets?" They are as below : 


1. Lord of the day: A day commences from the sunrise and 
extends to next sun rise. Suppose, on Monday morning sun 
rises al 6 a.m., then the interval commencing from 6 A.M. till 
the sun rise next day (Tuesday) is considered as Monday. 
Supposing on Tuesday sun rises at6 A.M, then 6A.M onthe 
same day must be treated as Monday. This is the explanation 
of an astrological day. Moon rules Monday, Mars rules Tuesday 
and so on. 


156 RETROGRADE PLANT 


2. Lord of Star | The zodiac, the path way of the planets 
(apparent pathway) is divided into 360°. Each 13°20 ' of this is 
called a constellation or a star. There are 27 such stars, Aswini, 
Bharani and so on. The transit of at the moment of analysis 
must be noted down. Each planet (Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, 
Jupier, Venus and Saturn) governs three stars. The nodes Rahu 
and Kethu are also allotted 3 stars each. Supposing atthe time 
of answering the query, the staris Bharani, then Venus the lord 
of the star becomes a significator. 


3. Lord of the Rasi : The zodiac of 360° is divided into 30° 
each and there are twelve such divisions each being called as 
solar Mansion or Houses. They are Aries-Mesha, Taurus - 
Rishaba and so on, every one being owned by a planet. The 
planet owning the sign (sclar mansion) where Moon passes 
through at the time of analysis is also a significator. 


4. Lord of the Lagna - Ascendant : With reference to the 
earth, that portion of the zodiac which rises in the east Is the 
ascendant. Ihe lord of the sign (Solar mansion) where 
ascendant falls becomes a significatoer. Also, the star (73°20' 
sub-division of the zodiac}, in which the Ascendant (LAGNA) 
falls at the moment of analaysis must be known. Lord of the 
star rising in the east also becomes a significator. 


However, there iS another method of arriving at the 
significators. [he querist is asked to give a number within 108. 
0 indicates 0° of the zodiac 1 is between C°te 3°20", 2 represents 
3°20' to 6°40"; 108 represents exactly 0° Aries. 107 represents 
356°20' to 360° of the zodiac. Thus one should apply the rules. 
It is evident the region contained (indicated) by the number (a) 
Must fall in a cerlain Lunar Mansion (6) Must fall in a certain 
solar Mansion and (c) also a sub portion of the lunar mansion. 
Hence lord of these three are the significators. Readers are 
requested to go through 'KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHAT1' Voli to 
get a clean idea of the sub of the constellation. 


Method of Prediction : First step of finding out the significators 
is over. Now how to time the event. For this one must clearly 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHATI 157 


analyse the nature of the query and the time of fructification of 
the query ifthe query is to be fulfilled. say within few hours. 
take the transit of ascendant, for few days take Moon's transit. 
lf the time of fructification is of the order of months consider 
Sun's transit 


Degree of Transition : Every minute point of the zodiac is 
governed by three pianet.s namely (1) lord of the sign (Solar 
Mansion), (2) lord of constellation (Lunar Mansion}, (3) lord of 
sub-consiellation, in which that particular point (degree) falls. 
The transit of either ascendant or Moon must be governed by 
the significators. In other words the signiticator (ascendant Sun 
or Moon) must transit in a sensitive point in the Zodiac so as to 
be governed by the significators, as explained above. | hat will 
be the time of trustification of the query The above priciples can 
be illustrated with an example cited as below : 


Query Tofind out the date of appointment of a gentlemen 
who consulted the astrologer and put the query at 2-40 p.m. on 
Friday, 5" August 1966. 


Analaysis | Since the client is the first man to put the query 
for the day, one is to note down the ruling planets at 2-40 P.M. 
on 5-8-66. 


1. Lord of the day : Today is Friday. The day is ruled by Venus. 
Hence Venus Is a significator. 


2. Lord of the star : The star Poorattathi extends till 2-50 
P.M. hence Moon now transits in Poorattathi star, lord of which 
is Jupiter. Hence Jupiter is a significator. 


3. Lord of the Rasi : Moon is approaching 3°20° in Pisces 
Meena. This sign is ruled by JUPITER 


4. Lord of the Lagna : Lagna now ts Scorpio (Nirayana) ruled 
by Mars. Hence Mars is a significator. 


There the planet signifying the frutfication of the query are 
(a) Mars, (b) JUPITER, (c) VENUS Now Mars 5s in 24°14 
GEMINI-MITHUNA. JUPITER is in 26°54" GEMINI MITHUNA 


156 RETROGRADE PLANT 


VENUS occupies 25°44 in the same sign. These three are 
conjoined. 


Hence one is to declare that the query will be fulfilled on a 
day when beth Sun and Moon transit at a point in the Zodiac 
governed by these three planes. 


Consider the sign, ruled by Mars, Venus and JUPITER, to 
be transited. Now sun is in CANCER KATAKA It is ruled by 
Moon which is not a significator. Next Leo is owned by Sun 
which is not a significator. So also is Virgo ruled by Mercury. In 
LIBRA ruled Venus we have JUPITER's star Visakam, but Mar’s 
sub third significator goes to Scorpio, In Mar's sign Scorpio, 
we have Jupiter's star. Visakam 4" pada, but we don't have 
Venus sub. Pass on to Jupiter's sign Sagitarius-Dhanur. Select 
Pooradam to be transited by Sun, in that take Mar’s Sub 
(JUPITER'S sign, Venus star, Mars Sub) 17°20 to 18°06' of 
sagittarius. But Moon also must transit in the sign and star of 
the significators. 


On 2nd January Sun transits Jupiter sign, Venus star Mars 
sub (258°) but Moon will be in Hastham star (Mercury sign, 
Moon's star) So reject this date. On 6" January Moon transits 
in Visakam (Venus sign, JUPITER's star) star. Sun transits in 
JUPITER sub in Pooradam Venus star Since Mars at the time 
of analysis Is conjoined with JUPITER. JUPITER sub can be 
selected instead of MARS Sub. Therefore before 10 A.M. on 6" 
January, 1987 a Friday, in Meena Lagna governed by JUPITER, 
the native will get employed. Mostly, Mar's sub in JUPITER's 
Star Poorattathi will be rising to the east, at the time of 
appointment. 


COURAGE AND CONFIDENCE OR 
COWARDICE AND CONFUSION 


Mantreswara in Phaladeepika says that the courage, the 
valour and the prowess are fo be judged from the third house: 
So also one's strength, energy and courage are signified by 
Mars. 


Therefore ifthe 3° cusp, planets inthe 3ra house, planets in 
the sub of Mars or constellation of Mars or those receiving good 
aspects from Mars contribute for one’s confidence and courage. 


"Mercury in 5 contributes for courage : so also Saturn in the 
11* house" 


In Jataka Tatwa, Mahadeva says that Mars in the sign of a 
benefic offers courage. He adds that Mars conjoined with Gulika 
produces bold people. But they will not be intelligent. Further 
he declares that if the third house owned by a malefic, ts 
occupied by a malefic and the lord of the house occupies a 
sign owned by any malefic, one will be courageous and 
confident. 


Weak Mars aspecting Lagna shows that the person Is 
cowardly. 


For those bern during night, if Saturn is in Meridian, the native 
is not bold Mars, in his own sign, aspecting the lagna makes 
one coward (This does not come true). In Uthra-Kalamrita, 
Kalidasa says that both Sun and Mars contribute for courage 
and confidence. 


In Sanketanidht, it is said that lord of 8 in 2 or 3 robs away 
one's courage : But lord of 2 in 3 or 4 gives boldness. 


160 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Krishnamurti. Houses 3 and 5 are to be judged tor brave 
action whereas 8™ house is for fear and timidity. Kethu causes 
confusion : Rahu, according to its situation makes one bold or 
timid. Mars and Sun give courage : Jupiter makes one optimistic 
‘ Moon and Mercury ever changing : occasionally bold and 
occasionally timid depending on the planet with which they are 
conjoined or aspected by Saturn makes one pessimistic. Venus 
takes everything easy, 


Therefore planets in the constellation or sub of Mars and 
Sun give confidence and makes one bold. Ifa planet is in the 
constellation or sub of Juipter, one is in buoyant and Jubilant 
spirit in its period. That planet occupying Saturn star or Saturn 
Sub makes him a pessimist. Planets in the constellation of Kethu 
or sub of Kethu creates confusion and perplexes one. 
Depending on the strength of Rahu according to the lord of the 
constellation and sub which Rahu occupies, planets in the 
constellation or sub of Rahu will behave in their period and sub 
period. 


Example horoscope : 


Sun 1.23 
Saturn Jupiter Ven 16.58 
29.50 11.51 Mer.22, 1 

Asc.2?.58 


ee ee 


Mars 27.18 
Moon 25.5 


KHISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 161 


Jupiter dasa Balance 9 years. 10 months and 24 days He is 
running Saturn Dasa, Rahu Bhukthi from 22-12-64. 


saturn, the dasanatha is in Sun's star Rahu sub. Rahu is in 
sun star, Saturn sub. As Saturn is a pessimist, even though 
Rahu is in the Constellation of Sun, yet the sub lord denies in 
Rahu's period, sub period and conjoined period of Saturn and 
Rahu, 


Both Saturn and Rahu in the Constellation of lord of 3, 
especially, must offer extraordinary courage. But since 2 
months, he suffers from fear complex and does not attend to 
his office. 


The period now on, is Saturn Dasa, Rahu Bhukti (occupying 
3” house) and Kethu anthra from 19-8-66. Kethu is also in 
Saturn star Saturn sub. All these three are evil. When Venus 
sub sub period runs, he will be normal as it is in its own sub. 
Therefore he will be alright from 19-10-66 and he will join duty 
on 20-10-66 on a Poorvashada star day. 


RP & KP 
Inthe middle of May 79, ! was to calculate two charts (male 
and female) for marriage purpose. Birth date are below : 


1. The 16" August, 1941 Saturday - Decca City (Now 
Bangladesh) 


23°42’ N -90°25' E at 7.42 pm, (IST) 
2 The 8" June 1953 Calcutta at 9.12 a.m. (IST) 


Sat. o3' 
Mars 2744 Ura 45 fae dt 
Asc. 4°23) 1 44°42" Me en Nene 
Ket 1744! Moon 17°4" Ved 
Jup. 23°58 
Mar 2749 
16-8-1941 VI 28°22" 


23°42' N - 90°25’ E 
7.42 PM. (IST) 
leave, | Ayanamsaz2’s60 a yo 


x| 29°65" a wad 
F 21°6 x 19'20 | oven 19°42 wan 
x 5°14" Nep 7°15 
Wi 4°23 


Balance of moon 4-8-12 days 


KRISiINAMURTI PADHDHATI 163 


When judged dasa / bhukthi was Jupiter / Venus from 10-3- 
79to 10-11-1981 to 16-12-81 


Cusp upto Sub Sub :- 


Ascendant = Jupiter Saturn Saturn Venus 


Jin Mercury Sun saturn Moon 
Rulings Planets (RPs) at birth : 

1. Lagna Sub satum 

2. Lagna star satum 

3. Lagna Lord Jupiter / Kethu 

4. Moon Star Moon 

&,. Rasi Lord Venus 

6. Day Lord Saturn 


The man is growing age, Adoubt may come into mind whether 
he is destined to marriage at all. Whether marriage will take 
place or not is to be ascertained with the help of 7" cusp and to 
the, sub sub lord is the key guide for any matter in question. 
This is a marriage case So sub sub of 7" cusp should be 
pursued. 


The 7" cusp falls in the sign of Virgo- kanya, in the star of 
sun, inthe sub of Saturn and lastly in the sub sub of Moon who 
will guide whether marriage is there at all. 


It is better to find out the fruitful significators with the help of 
the formula below. 


Planet A in th sub sub of Planet B 
Planet B in the star of Planet C 


C is at required house or may be at neutral house but should 
be connected with a required one. 


If we Tollow the above formula, then Saturn Moon and Rahu 
are found to be fruitful, Sub sub lord of 7 is Moon and Moon is 
found fruitful, so marriage is promised - how’? 


Moon, lord of 5 at 3 in her own star is in the sub sub of Mars, 


164 RETROGRADE PLANT 


owner of 2 at lagna and Mars ts in Mercury who is owner of 7 at 
5. 


Planets upto sub-sub 


Planets and Bhava Starand Bhava Sub and Shava Sub Sub and Bhava 
Kethu (12} Jupiter (3) Marst1} Yeanus(6} 
Mars (1) Mercury {5} Jupiter (3) Fahy (6} 
Saturn (2) Sun (6} satum (2) Jupiler {3} 
Moon (3) NMror {3} Saturn (24 Mars (1} 
Jupiter (3) Mars (1} Mars(1} Venus (5} 
Mercury (5} Mercury (5} Jupiter (3) Rahu (6) 
Sun (6) Kethu (12} Kathu (12} Rahu (6} 
Rahu {6} Sun (6) Rahu (6) Mars (1) 
Venus (6} Sunt5} Jupiter (3) satum (2} 
Forluna{10} Venus (6) Jupiter (3) Yenus (6) 


When judged the man who is running through Jupiter dasa 
Venus bhukthi. What could have happened in earlier dasa 
bhukthi is not our subject matter here. Our interest is to find out 
whether he is destined to marriage, if so when. 


We have found that only Saturn, Moon and Rahu are fruitful 
significators but the man is passing through Jupier / Venus 
whether this Jupier / Venus can offer him marriage ts to be 
examined deeply. 


Here comes the mighty role of node. Krishnamurti Padhdhati 
folk ers will agree with me that node, is becoming agent of 
the planets with whom it is conjoined or is aspected or the lord 
in whose constellation it is in or the lord in whose sign it is 
posited. Next, as per Hindu, rahu had full aspect on 5", 7m, 9™ 
and 12'*house from its position. 


Rahu is at Virge-Kanya, aspects Jupiter, Moon and Saturn 
by its 5 aspect, Mars by 7" aspect, 11" house by 9" aspect 
and 8" house byi2th aspect. Next, Rahu is in the sign of 
Mercury, so it is agent of Mercury. itis conjoined with Venus, so 
it is agent of Venus too. It is posited in Sun's star, rahu is once 
again agent of the Sun. Therefore rahu represents Mercury, 
Venus and Sun; Jupier, Moon and Saturn: and Mars. 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 1685 


Jupiter dasa is on and Rahu agent of Jupiter, Venus bhukthi 
is running, so Rahu represents Venus with whom it is 
conjoined. So Jupiter dasa Venus bhukthi may offer him 
marriage. It was prognosticated that marriage would take place 
either in July 79 or latest by first week of February 1980, either 
in Jupiter-Venus-Venus period or in Juptier-Venus-Moon period 
but itlook place on 18" February, 1980 in Jupiler-Venus-Mars 
period. As per probable transit, | tried to fix up the period either 
in Shrabana-July or in Falguna-February 890, In the intermediate 
period neither the transits were agreeable nor the months which 
were acceptable to the Bengalis. 


Transits on 18-2-80 at night-were as follows: 


(1 )Sun-in the sign of Aquarius-Kumbha at 5°40' in the star of 
retrograde Mars (anthrax lord) and in the sub of Venus bhukthi 
lord and Karaka lord). 


(2)Jupiter-Dasa lord is in the sign of Leo-Simha at 2°41' in 
the star of Kethu and in the sub of Mercury, Jupiter was in 
retrograde motion. 


(3)¥Venus-Bhukthi lord in the sign of Pisces-meena at 16°39' 
in the star of retrograde Saturn and in the sub of retrograde 
Jupiter. 


(4)Mars-Anthra lord is retrograde in the sign of Leo-Simha 
at 14°47’ in the star and sub of Venus 


(5)Consider another slow moving planet, Saturn. He is 
retrograde in Virgo-Kanya at 2°0’ in the star of Sun and in the 
sub of retrograde Jupiler. 


Theory of Retrogradation : 


It is interesting to note that marriage took place in the period 
of Juptier-Venus-Mars who in transit were either retrograde or 
in the star and subs, lords of which were also in retrograde 
motion. Venus is not retrograde on 78-2-80 but she was posited 
the star of Saturn who was in retrograde motion. Also Venus 
was in the sub of Jupiter who too was in backward motion. 


186 RETROGRADE PLANT 


These transits, as discussed above, are eye-opener to all 
who are still indignant to my earlier suggestion. One may note 
with care that Jupiter is retrograde and he is far away from the 
Sun but he is in the star of kethu at Kumbha (on transit) within 
3%" of the Sun on 18-2-80,so Jupiter did not stop his result 
eventhough he was in retrograde motion. Bhukthi lord Venus 
was not retrograde but she was posited In the star of Saturn 
and in the sub of Juptier. Both Saturn and Jupiter were 
retrograde. About Jupiter, | have told. Now Saturn in Virgo-Kanya 
and is far away from the Sun, interestingly, he is posited in the 
star of Sun. 


Mars is retrograde but is posited in the star and sub of Venus 
who is in direct motion at Pisces-Meena but is away from the 
oun by about 40° 


The theory suggests that any retrograde planet if he is near 
the Sun by about 20/22° (| was optimist upto 30°) or posited in 
the star, lord of which is near the Sun or posited in the star of 
sun,the retrograde planet will behave normally like a direct planet 
because of combustible power of the Sun in whose proximity 
the retrograde planets or their star lord are present. In a number 
of cases | have experienced it and [| have brought their results 
to the knowledge of the esteemed readers 


Now Jupiter in transit is retrograde, then he should have 
4. 3pended the result temporarily for his retrograde course al 
least, he should have help up the result till he becomes direct. 
But he did, rather he helped the matter in favour of the event for 
fructitication. Similar is the care of Venus. Venus is not retrograde 
but she is posited in the star of Saturn who is retrograde. Again 
mars is retrograde but he is posited in Venus who is not 
retrograde. 


Let us scrutinize them. On 18-2-80 Jupiter is in the star of 
Kethu who is within 3 % ° of the sun at Kumbha-Aquarius. 
Therefore, theory of Retrogradation is very much effective here, 
l.e. retrograde Jupiter is in the star of Kethu who is near the 
Sun, hence retrograde nature of Jupiter is practically nil, so, 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 167 


Jupiter being :n the star of kethu acts like a direct planet and did 
not stop the event eventhough his main dasa was in operation. 


On 18-2-80 Venus at Pisces-Meena in the star of Saturn 
who is retrograde. In return, Saturn is posited in the star of 
Uttraphaigum, lord of which is Sun. 


Mars is very far away from the Sun. Mars Is in the star of 
Venus who is at Meena 16° and distance between the Sun and 
Venus is about 40°. As per theory, it is beyond even 10° of the 
optimistic value of 30° as | refer to above How then can we 
draw conclusion on it’? Venus is not only in the star of Saturn 
who is retrograde but Venus is also posited in the sub of Jupiter 
who again Is in retrograde motion. Venus offered result in a 
peculiar way eventhough she was in the sub and star of 
retrograde planets. My opinion is below, any scholar may throw 
more light on it so that we can learn more about Krishnamurti 
Padhdhati system. 


As regard Venus, she is generally found near or away to the 
maximum extent of 48° of the Sun. It is felt (it is quite a possibility} 
that retrograde nature of Venus may not stand in the way of 
achieving result although she remains away from the Sun by 
over 30°. Or it may be due to the reason that her placement in 
the sign of Rajoguna or Satwaguna planet or in their constellation 
in similar significators. 


Venus, a Rajoguna planet is posited in the sign of Pisces, 
Meena (on transit on 18-2-80) owner of which is Jupiter a 
satwaguna sign, Venus is inthe star of Saturn who although is 
of Tameguna nature, Saturn is posited in the sign of Kanya- 
Virgo owener of which is Mercury, a Rajoguna planet. Saturn is 
also posited in the star of Sun, a Satwaguna planet. The above 
two points should deeply be pursued. 


The above may also be applicable in the case of Mercury 
but «s should be noted with care that Mercury is very often found 
near the Sun. Its maximum proximity is 28° from the Sun. But 
for other major planets, such as, Jupiter, Saturn an dMars, tt is 


188 RETROGRADE PLANT 


better to apply earlier formula which appears to be very effective 
as per theory of retrogradation of planets. However, whalever 
may be the planetary positions on 18-2-80, it is a fact that 
marriage took place on the date which we cannot deny. Fact 
does not wait for astrological analysis 


Theory of Substitution : 


In our earlier analysis, we have found Saturn, Moon and Rahu 
are only beneficial planets for marriage as per formula. Next 
we have also considered the powerful role of node, Rahu. As 
per Krishnamurti padhdhati system, we have included Venus, 
Mercury, Sun, Jupiter, Moon, Saturn and Mars in favour of Rahu 
since its placement, conjuction, star position and aspects etc, 
lf that is so then besides Saturn, Moon and Rahu. we can also 
include Jupiter, Venus. Mercury, sun and Mars. Kethu too will 
come since it is in associatin with Mars. That means, all the 
nine planets, eventhough we do notfind more than 3 planets in 
general way. 


Next, we have found Saturn, Moon and Rahu, who are useful 
for marriage. Now if they are good, planets who are in their 
Stars must also be equally good as per condition of stellar 
astrology. If that is so then none in Saturn star. Only moon in 
Moon star and none in Rahu. Again those three are coming as 
strong significators as we see earlier. 


But Jupiter dasa Venus bhukthi is running in whole period 
and sub period marriage had come. How did we consider then? 
Rahu aspects Jupiter (by 5" aspect) and Venus conjoins Rahu. 
Again Rahu and Venus both aspect Mars in whose anthrax 
period marriage took place on 18-2-80. 


The above can be substituted in other way which will be 
known as Theory of Substitution. When things appear to be 
clemsy and hazard, one can think of the theory to arrive atthe 
conclusion. | find many ways to select useful significators which 
t want to share with my esteemed readers-followers. We were 
discussing about Rahu who had been representing Mercury, 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 189 


Venus, Sun, Jupiter, Moon, Saturn and Mars. Let us again see 
whether these 7 planets are really beneficial for marriage as 
per theory of substitution, Let us lock the planetary positions of 
the male chart, 


Rahu is in the sub sub ot Mars and Mars is in the star of 
Mercury who is at 5, a house of testive occasion, lover affair, 
free choice, sports, games etc. Therefore, Rahu is undoubtedly 
good. 


How is Rahu here? It is finally in the star of Mercury (besides 
its placement in Virgo Kanya}. Planet A in the star of planet B 
means B is becoming agent cf B. A will act what B does. 


Rahu is in the star of Sun i.e, in the star of Uttraphalguni lord 
of which is Sun. Its position is from 26°40’ of Leo-Simha to 10° 
of Virgo-Kanya. But rahu is spotted in the sub division of Rahu 
at the beginning of Virgu-Kanya. Yet this sub area is not small. 
itis located in the sub sub division of Mars. This little but sensitive 
area of Rahu who is Mars, is the agent of Rahu, and Mars is 
posited in the star of Mercury. So Mars in mercury star and 
Mars is agent of Rahu. Therefore Rahu and Mercury are inter- 
linked via Mars. Ifthat is so, we can replace Rahu by Mercury in 
the sub sub division where there is Rahu and theretby hazard 
appearance of the planetary positions appears to be easy. We 
can apply this theory tor any planet we like and things are 
believed to be in fruitful shape. Let us see. 


Then Mercury is instead of Rahu. Now who are the planets 
that are in the sub sub of Rahu? Remove Rahu and insert 
Mercury in his place. Mars, Mercury and Sun are in the sub sub 
of Rahu in whose place we can put Mercury Le. Mercury for 
Rahu. Then what may be the shape of the planetary positions? 
Take Mars, Mercury and Sun. Now they are in the sub sub 
Mercury and Mercury is in the star of his own (Mercury at 5, 
owner of 7, hence Mars, Mercury and Sun are good and fruitful 
for marriage). 


Examine Venus in whose bhukthi marriage had come Venus 
is in the sub sub of Saturn and Saturn is in the star of Sun. So 


170 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Venus should be replaced by Sun Sce who are the planets 
that are in the sub sub of Venus. Kethu and Jupiter are in the 
sub sub of Venus. So their sub sub divisional lords may be 
replaced by Sun. Then Kethu and Jupiter are in the sub sub of 
sun and Sun is in the star of Kethu at 12 (Sukhasayana i.e. bed 
comfort), close to lagna cusp and also tn association with Mars, 
lord of 2 al lagna bhava, hence Kethu and Jupiter (dasa lord) 
are good and fruitful 


Examine Saturn who will be replaced by Mars, Planets who 
are in the sub sub of Saturn should be replaced by Mars. Only 
Venus Is in the sub sub of Saturn. Then position of Venus will 
be Venus in the sub sub of Mars and mars in the star of Mercury, 
owner of 7 at 5, hence Venus is good and in where bhukthi 
period marriage has come. 


Therefore Jupiter-Venus-Mars i.e. dasa-bhukthi-anthra lords 
are found to be beneficial when we were a bit hesitant before 
arriving at the conclusion in our earlier analysis with help of 
node Rahu. 


(2) We can also solve the problem in the following way with 
the help of theory of Substitution. Take the case of Mars. Now 
mars is inthe sub sub of Rahu and Hahu ts in the star of Sun. 
oo Rahu and Sun are interlinked position. Remove Rahu, the 
sub sub lord of Mars and pul Sun in Hahu's place. What may 
then be the position ‘“ Now Mars is in the sub sub of Sun (instead 
of Rahu) and Sun in the star of kethu at 12 (Suhasayana i.e. 
bed comfort) in association with Mars, lord of 2 at lagna. Does 
not the thing appear to be clear? I feel, yes. so we should see 
both the ways-any of the two or both will indicate the bhava 
results. 


The above theory may be*helpful in the case of the theory of 
Retrogradation of planets. However the man is married even 
though he was in advanced age. 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI V7 


Female Chart : 


Ven. 9'6' Jup. 13°69) Mars 2°93 


1776 | Moog’ | xi2ras = | Mer.10°18 
x 19°96’ Sun 2397 | All 2226 
Urs. 2743 


, Kethu 12°36 
vil 1745 8-6-1953 Aso. 27°38 


at 9-12 a.m. (IST} 


22°34’ N - 88°24’ E 
Vil 24°38" Ayanamsa 23°6’ 


Rahu 12°¢ W1?4S 


HM A268 
Satum {A} 
VI 22°90 ¥ 21°30" Iv 49°30! 27°39) 
Neptune (R) 
_ 28410 


Balance of Kethu 2y-1m-25 days. 


When judged, Sun dasa Mercury bhukthi from 21-5-79 to 
27-3-80. 


Cusps upto Sub Sub : 


Asc. Moon Mercury Sun Moon 
fn Saturn Moon Venus Jupiter 


Ruling planets (APs) at birth -- 


1. Lagna Sub sun 

2. Lagna Star Mercury 
3. Lagna Lord Moon 
4. Moon star Kethu 

5 Rasi Lord Mars 

6. Day Lrod Moon 


Orsun, Mercury. Moon, Kethu and Mars. 


1f2 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Infact runt ing dasa bhukll: of the girlencouraged me to tell 
the man that there is a possibility of his marriage with this girl 
and that toc and in march 80. Of course, it may or may not be 
particularly with him She may be married elsewhere to other 
man who is running marriageable dasa/phukthi that may 
coincide with her. Since negotiation is going with him, we shall 
only suggest that there is a possibility after judging his and her 
dasa bhukthi the much. 


she was running Sun dasa Mercury bhukthi from 21-5-79 to 
27-3-80. Sun owner of 2 at 11 in the star of Mars at 11, Mars 
owner of 5, Sun is in the sub sub of Venus, owner of 11 al 9 
(good) in the star of Kethu at 12 (Sukhasayana) Kethu agent 
of Moon, owner of lagna at 9. Both Venus and Moon are in rapt 
conjuction. Next, Kethu agent of Saturn (being placed in the 
coust of Saturn), owner of 7 at 3. Sun trine to Saturn. Venus 
and moon, both trine to 2 and sextile to Mars and Mercury at 11. 


Next, Mercury (bhukthi lord), owner of 3 and 11, in the star of 
Rahu at 6. Rahu in the sign of Makara - Saturn, hence agent of 
saturn, owner of 7 at 3 also intrine with him Rahu is in the star 
of Moon at 9, Moon conjoins with Karaka Venus, sextile to 11 
and trine to 2. Rahu in the sub sub of Saturn and Saturn is in 
the star of Mars al 11. Doubt does not arise why she will not be 
married in this bhukthi of Mercury in Sun main dasa. 


Planets upto sub sub. 


Planels and Bhava Star and dhava Sub and Bhava Sub sub and Bhava 
Venus (ui) Kethu (12) Jupiter (10} Rahu (6} 

Moar 9} Kethu (12} Jupiter (10) Rah (6) 

Jupiler (105 Muon (9) Ratu (6} Mars (11) 

Sun (11) Mars (1 1} Mars (11) Venus {9} 

Mars (11) Mars (11) Venus (9} Venus (8) 

Mercury (11) Riahu (6) Jbpiter (10) ROhL (6} 

Kethu (12) Satum (R} 13) Mais (11) Mercury (11) 

salum (R) (3} Mars (11, Jupiter {10} Ranu (6) 


Rahu(6} Moon (9) Rabi 6} Satum (R}(9} 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHAT| 173- 


Verification with Multi-Stellar Theory :- 


Mercury is inthe Sub sub of Rahu and Rahu is in the star of 
Moon, owner of lagna at 9 Moon in Kethu star and Kethu ts at 
12 (sukhasayana) examine Kethu. Kethu 4s in the sub sub of 
Mercury and Mercury is in the star of rahu at 6 Sixth bhava is a 
doubtful bhava for marriage. But bhava alone is not all. Its 
constellational zones are to be well scrutinized. In the sixth 
bhava, there are 3 Zones viz. Venus, Sun and moon. Lords of 
these zonal constellations are well placed in the fruitful houses. 
Venus is at 9, Sun is at 11 and Moon is at 9, Rahu is placed in 
the 9. Moon lord of lagna, sextile to 11 and trine to 2. Hence 
position of Rahu at 6 in the constellation of Moon is good. 


Next Rahu agent of Saturn as it covers the whole of Makara- 
Satum sign. Saturn ts at 3 in the star of Mars at 11. Rahu is 
trined by Jupier. Both Jupiter and Rahu are in the constellation 
of Moon and Moon is at 9. Juptier is in the sub sub of Mars and 
Mars in Mars in 11. Hence Jupiter's aspect Rahu is good. Next, 
Mars aspects Rahu (as per Hindu by 8"" aspect}. Mars in Mars 
star and Rahu in Moon. Moon and Mars are in sextile aspect 
i.e. from good house to good house also Mercury is at 11, hence 
Mercury bhukthi is conductive for marriage event 


Verification by Thoery of Substitution :- 


1. Planets who are in the sub sub of rahu are to be replaced 
how? Rahu is in the sub sub of Saturn and Saturn is in the star 
of Mars. Now Rahu and Mars are interlinked. Mercury is in the 
sub sub of, Rahu and Rahu will be replaced by mars. Then 
Mercury is in the sub sub of Mars and Mars is in the star of his 
own (Mars) and Mars is at 11. Hence Mercury bhukthi appears 
to be fruitful. 


2. Rahu in Moon star hence Moon and Rahu are inter linked. 
Now replaced Rahu by Moon. Then Mercury is in the sub sub 
of Moon and Moon is in the star of Kethu at 12 (sukhasayana). 
Kethu is in the star of Saturn, owner of 7 at 3. Dasa lord and 
anthra lord even be done in same fashion 


1V¥4 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Verification by Lagna Dasa (Ascendant 
Cusp) 


Balance of Mercury at birth by lagna dasa is 10y7m30 days. 
When judged in May 79, she was running through Venus / rahu 
from 8-4-78 to 5-4-80. Both dasa and bhukthi are favourable 
for her marriage. Possibly, Venus-Rahu-Kethu or Venus-Rahu- 
Venus may be the period of her marriage. It is almost coinciding 
with her Moon dasa. This is just for verification. 


Verfication by marriage dasa (7 Cusp) 


Balance of Moon 1y3mSdays. When judged, she was running 
Jupiter / Jupiter. Juptiter-Jupiter-Saturn may be the possible 
period of May 80 from last of December 79. This period gives 
the indication of her marriage if dasa bhukthi is calculated from 
the Moon's position. One may examine both Jupier and Saturn. 
Jupiter is in the sub sub of Mars and Mars in Mars at 11. Saturn 
is in the sub sub of Rahu and Rahu in Moon at 9, conjoined with 
Venus the 11" lord Karakapati. 


All these possibilities helped me to draw up conclusion on 
the chart of the man that this marriage may likely to take place 
anyhow by February 80 or latest by March 80 and possibly with 
this girl since negotiation is in progress. 


Next, there are other reasons which may convince one to 
believe it. Ruling Planets are the guide. The Ruling Planets KP 
of both of them at birth will reveal how their marriage will be in 
agreement. Let us examine them how do they agree. 


Ruling Planets of the Man 


1. Lagna Sub : Saturn 
4.Lagna siar ‘ Saturn 

3. Lagna Lord Jupiter / Kethu 
4. Moon Star - Moon 

5. Rasi Lord : Venus 

6 Day Lord ‘ Saturn 


Saturn, Jupiter, Kethu, Moon and Venus 


KRISHNAMURTI PACRDHATI 175 
Ruling Planets of the Girl 


1. Lagna Sub / Sun. 

2. Lagna star ‘ Mercury 

3. Lagna Lord ‘ Moon / Kethu 
4. Moon Siar ' Kethu 

5. Rasi Lord : Mars 

6. Day Lord - Moon / Kethu 


oun. Mercury, Moon, Kethu and Mars 


The common are Kethu and Moon. We can reject the others. 
Now in man's charl. Moon in Moon and Sunin Kethu. So planets 
for man are Moon, Kethu and Sun. Now Sun is the lagna sub of 
the girl (1}. Kethu is the Moon star (4) of the girl, also Kethu 
represents lagna-lord and day lord of the girl and Moon is the 
lagna lord (3), and day lord (6) ofthe girl. That is out of 6 Ruling 
Planets. 4 are agreeing with the girl. If 50% Ruling Planets are 
coinciding then agreement is satisfactory, if between 60% and 
80% then itis good, 80% and above is the best Less than 50% 
is not conducive for marriage agreement. Then proposal of 
marriage with the opponent should be avoided. Ruling Planets 
arrangement also gives indication cf happiness. In the case of 
the man, arrangement Is over 60% hence agreement appears 
to be good. 


Inthe gilr’s chart, Jupiter and Rahu in Moon and Venus and 
Moon in Kethu. So planets are Moon, Jupiter and Rahu and 
Venus and Kethu. Moon is the Moon star (4) of the man; Jupiter 
and kethu are the lagna lord (3). Venus is the rasi lord (5) of the 
man. Here also 4 planets are agreeing out of 6 and arrangement 
appears to be good. Now Ruling Planets of the both are arranged 
below : 


For Man - Moon, Kethu, Sun 
For Girt — Moon, Jupiter, Rahu, Venus, Kethu 


50 they are Moon, Kethu, Sun, Jupiter, Rahu and Sun. Now 
at the time of judgement, the man was running Jupiter dasa 
Venus bhukthi. In the Ruling Planets, both Jupiter and Venus 
are present. Itis believed that this Jupiter / Venus period may 
offer his marriage. 


176 RETROGRADE PLANT 


The girl was running Sun dasa Mercury bhukthi. In the Ruling 
planets, Sun as dasa lord is there. But we do not see Mercury, 
the bhukthi lord of the girl A careful scrutiny will reveal that 
Mercury is strong in the star of Rahu. So Mercury bhukthi is 
indicating her marriage and it appears to be fruitful. Both are 
happily married on 18-2-80. 


Transits of the planets for girl on 18-2-80 when marriage 
performed in the night, were given below : 


Dasa lord Sun was in Kumbha in the star of Mars and sub of 
Venus (Karaka). 


Mercury was also in Kumbha at 23°42’ in the star of Jupiter 
and inthe sub of Saturn (anthra lord). Both Jupiter and Saturn 
were retrograde. One may satisfy his curiosity with the help of 
Theory of Retrogradation and he will get the thing cleared. 


Anthra lord Saturn was retrograde in Virgo-Kanya at 2° in 
the star of Sun and in the sub of Jupiter. Transit for both was 
same bul what we should examine whether there are 
significators tor marriage. 


lf we look to the charts, both aré married in delayed way. 
Sub lord of 7" cusp of the man is Saturn and sub sub lord is 
Moon, Saturn lord of 11 in 2, Moon has been placed at 3 but 
both Moon and Saturn are in association and both trine to 7. 
Moon owner of 5 at 3 in the sub of Saturn. This Mcoon-saturn 
combination causes "Poonerphoo" as a result of which marriage 
proposal falls through, makes cancellation of dates including 
refusal of fixed marriage. No proposal has so far maturated 
since he attained the age of marriage. Even he is not sure 
whether he will marry particularly this girl, because a number 
of proposals has fallen through for a reason or other for which 
he is not responsible. If we look to his age, we can understand 
the position. However it is a case of delayed marriage. 


On the other hand, the girl who is aged about 27 has caused 
head-ache to her parents. 27 years of age for a girl is sufficient 
enough fo snatch away peaceful sleep of her parents. Who 
made her delayed marriage? ti is Saturn. Saturn owner of 7 at 


KRISHNAMURTI PAGHDHAT| 177 


3 (delay) but Satum is inthe ster of Mars at 11. So she is destined 
to maniage but in delayed way she is not denied. 


Those whose 7" cusp falls in the sign of Saturn, it is seen 
from the experience that their marriage is delayed by a bit and 
also age difference between partners is much and some time 
is very high. But | am not sure that it is a must for all cases. 
One should make it a point for test and verification. 


However she has got an aged husband though the male 
appears to be wise and reasonable. It appears from the sub 
sub lord of her 7" cusp who is Jupiter. On the other hand, the 
man has got a young wife in compare to his age. Age difference 
is very high in their case eventhough girl is aged 2? years 
(young?) sub sub lord of 7" cusp of the man is Moon which 
indicates young partner. 


Apart from allthese above, they will lead a happy life because 
their Ruling Planets aré in good and favourable agreement. 
harmony and in agreeable state. 


Conclusion : 


The man is a state ranking cricketer but he failed to make 
his debut in it fer a reason or other for which his ill-luck is 
responsible | feel, this is for the disposition of Venus at 6 in the 
star of Sun who ts also at 6. Mercury, a playful planet at 5 (sports 
and games) in his own star at 5. Mars, a courageous and 
dashing planet is also in the star of Mercury. Mars is placed al 
lagna bhava (good) and also Mars an dMercury are in good 
triné Both are placed in fruitful signs. But Saturn, the 11° as 
well as the 12™ lord is placed at 2 in the star of Sun who Is at 6 
(bad). Saturn trine to Venus at 6 (bad). Saturn trine to Venus at 
6 (bad). Saturn square to Sun (bad). Interestingly, both Venus 
and Saturn are in Sun star and Sun in Kethu at 42 Sun and 
Kethu are in quin=cunx aspect. Planets in bad house and their 
mutual bad aspect is good. Because of this, possibly, he 
became a little bit successful in his cricket but finally he failed 
because though Kethu is at 12, it is within the orb of lagna cusp 


176 RETROGRADE PLANT 


which is in quin-cunx aspect with Sun (bad) and Kethu and Mars 
are opposing Venus (Karaka) and Venus in Sun (bad) at 6. 


The girl has done her M.A. in Sanskrit. Moon and Venus, lord 
of lagna and 4" (general education) and 11* (where desire is 
fulfilled) respectively are placed in 9 (higher education) Jupiter, 
the wise and Guru and the most helpful planet for learning 
sanskrit is posited at 19 (honour) is in the star of Moon, owner 
of lagna at 9 Jupiter trine to Saturn at 3 augumented her 
perserverence in learning Sanskritto a desirable extent. Saturn 
is in the star of Mars at 11 brought her success in her effort. 


itis reported thal she has a very good hand in paintings. Not 
imposiole Moon the imagination, owner of lagna nad fruitful sign 
at 9 (higher thought) conjoin with Venus, the symbol of art and 
music. 


Let us wish them a happy marired life. 


GOOL LUCK ! 


RESTORATION OF CURRENT 
WHEN? THROUGH R.P. 


Current failed on 1-12-85 from Morning 10.30 am My son 
Mr. Hari Prasad wanted to know when the current will come 
according to the principles of K.P. System. There is no current 
even upto 5.30 p.m. {| have started to calculate the ruling planets 
at 6.30 p.m. to find out the resumption of current. 


The ruling planets atthe time cf considering the querry are 
as follows: 


Day lord is Sunday Sun 

Moon in rasi Mercury (II) 
Moon star lord Jupiter 
Lagna lord Mercury {Il} 
Lagna star lord Mars 


Current wis restore during the point raising Lagna a fiery 
planet among n" ,g planets. Now considering the houses ruling 
the combination of atove ruling planets. First take £ n’'s House 
Leo-there is no Jup-. er, Mercury of Mars stars eliminate this 
house. Next take Mercury house Gemini, Mercury has come 
twice Rasi Lord and Lagna Lord. So Mercury is a strong planet. 
In this House (Gemini) Jupiter and Mars stars are there. So 
which of thse can be taken into account either Jupiter or Mars 
as star Lord for consideration. This doubt can be cleared from 
the strong ruling planets. Jupiter is the lord of lagna, whereas 
Mars is the star lord of Lagna. Hence Mars is stronger than 
Jupiter to give results. Now which sub period the current will 
come is the question. In Mercury sign (Il) Mars star, Sun sub, 
which is a fiery planet responsible for light and energy is taken 


180 RETROGRADE PLANT 


for fructification of querry. ie Mercury-Mars-Sun during their 
conjoined petiod the current will come. 


Now convert the time for restoring current during conjoined 
period of Mercury-Mars-Sun. This position rules in Gemini- 
4°53'20". 


1. To rise Lagna as Mer-Mars-Sun 4°53 20" 
2. Aynamsa of the day +23-33-25 
Sayana position 28-26-45 


Calculate the 5.Tto rise 28-26-45 as Lagna in Gemini. Find 
from the table of House at 13°O (Madras) falls between two 
times. The difference to the required position from 27-41-00 Is 
0-45'45" 


S.No. ST i Required lagna position 
1 23°3037" = 28°32 28°26'45" 
2, 23°26-56" = 27°41 2 7°4-00" 

0903'41" (P51! 0°45'45" 

221" 0-51" 45 x 60+45 = 2745" 


221 x 2745/51 =3'18" to be added to the S.No.2 @ 


The time of event in S T @ 23-30-14 the lagna raises at 28- 
26-45 in Gemini. 


Convert this time into 1.S.T. 23-30-14 
Less: ST. on 1-12-85 (-) 10-08-1 
13-21-56 
Less time correction @ 10 per Hour (-) 0-02-43 
13-19-43 
Add time difference + 0-09-00 
13-28-43 
From 5.30am.to630p.m — 13-00-00 
0-28-43 00-28-43 
0-28-43 


6-48-43 pm 13-28-43 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 181 


How wonder, at the stroke of 6-59 p m the lights in my house 
as well as neighbours were started glowing and given light. 


This prediction is entirely based on ruling planets and the 
help of horary chart is not considered, as the event is going to 
materialize within a matter of hours, lagna only taken into 
consideration. 


Hats off to the theory of ruling planets propounded by our 
Guruji and its application in predictions, which will come true. 


IS PROGENY PROMISED? 


One of my friends who knew that ! knew astrology, asked 
me on 29-1-1975 to calculate astro logically when he will be 
blessed with a child At my bidding, he gave No.9 between 1 
and 249. After blowing to Gurujee, the innovator of K.P Method, 
| started calculation at 9-15 p.m. on the same day. The chart of 
the heavens Is given. 

Houses lI V xl 

Sign Lord = Venus Moon A-Sat 

Star Lod Moon Mar Mars 

Sub Lord Rahu Rah Rahu 

Planets Sun Moon Mereu. Jupiter Venus Sa Aahu Kethu Mars 
SignLerd R-Sai Sun RSal ASat FASa Mer Mars Venus Jup 

siarLord Moon Venus Mars  Jup Mars dup ASat Moon Kel 
Subliod RSal Venus Ket) Mer Moon Jup Bahu Aahu ASat 

The position of the Moon, called Mathi should indicate the 
querent's mind. Here Moon is lord of the 5" House and posited 
in the 5" House, but in a barren sign. Itis posited in the star 
and sub of Venus, lord of 2" and 7* houses in 11™house. So, 
the position of Moon clearly depicts the querrents mind regarding 
child birth. 


In order to judge whether one is promised children, the 
following three conditions are to be satisfied simultaneously, 
reference Horary Astrology by Shri Krishnamurti, Page 192. 


1. The Sub Lord of the 5m House is not retrograde; 


2. Itis not posited in a constellation of a retrograde planet; 
and 


3 kis asignificator of either 2. or S™ or 11" house 


KRISHNAMURTI PAGHDRAT| 183 


If any one of these, conditions is not satisfied, one will not be 
able to have a child at all. 


| II 5-33-23 
an. Sal(R} 
[26-40 | Wise2 | ei, 
lV 28-33-23 
XII 28-3146 ) 
Jup.25-24-52 | Querrent Husband | 
V 23-33-23 
Ven.549-53 Child Birth When? | “~~ 
Mer. 1-56-34 | No.3 
Judgement Time | 
x124-33-23 | 915 p.m. M 29-1-72 Moon 


Sun 15-42-1 | Judgement Kalakot 14-20-11 


X 28-33-23 
Mars 11-20-52 
IX 5-33-23 


Vil 11-59-40 | VII 
Rahu 13-40-21 11-2640 


The sub-lord of the 5" house is Rahu. 
1. Itis not retrograde 
2. It is posited in the Star of Saturn which is retrograde. 


3. It represents 11° House, being deposited in the star of 
retrograde Saturn. 


since, the 2™ condition 1s not satisfied ie.. tis posited in the 
constellation of a retrograde planet, the querrent is not assured 
of progeny. 


The lagna of wife is the 7" House of the querent and her 5" 
house will be the 11" house of the querrent. In order to judge 
whether wife is able to produce we have to see the Sub-Lord of 
her 5" house ie. 11* house of the husband. In this case the 
sub-lord of the 5" House ts again Rahu As stated above, Rahu 
cannot contribute to child birth, so she is unable to produce. 


184 RETROGRADE PLANT 


This clearly shows that both husband and wife are sterile. 
Accordingly | told my friend about the result of my calculation, | 
wanted to confirm the result from a number given by his wife. 
On 4-2-1975, the couplevisited our house and his wile gave 
me the number 48 between 1 and 249. The chart of the heavens 
at 9-34 p.m. on 4-2-1975 at Kalakot is as under 


Whether the Querent can produce 
Judge sub lord of the 5" house. It is Rahu in this case 


1. itis not retrograde. 
2. lt is posited in the star of Saturn which is retrograde 


3. Itrepresents 2™ house being conjoined with moon, lord 
of 2" house. 


Out of three conditions, only two are satisitied. 


Xi 32-36 | §-40-0 
XI 25-3-48 Ketu Satum{R) 
13-19-59 1947-19 


Jup.264342 Querent - Wife 
K 31.348 Chied Birth When? (| 0-3-48 
Vertus led Bi en: Il 23-348 
13-20-12 No.-48 


Judgement time 


re 9-34 p.m. Or 4-2-75 
IX 23-3-49 Judgement Place 


Sun 71-47-50 Kalakot 
VIll 0-3-48 meno 


Mars VI 3-32-36 
1646-27 Moon 4-37-B ¥ 25-348 
Vil 8-40-0 13-19-59 


KRISHNAMURT! PABHDHAT| 


Planets Sun Moon Mars 
Signlord R-Sal mars lip 
StarLord Moon ASal Vers. 


Sutirod Venus Venus Moon 
Houses I V 
Sign Lord Moon R-Mer 
Stal Lond Jup Mars 
SUD Lord Moon ARahu 


ReMer 


R-Sal 
Mars 
R-Sal 


Xl 
up 
R-mer 
Rahu 


Venus 
F-Sal 
Rats 
A-Me' 


Sat-A 
RA-Mer 
Rahu 
Mars 


1845 


Rahu Kethu 
Mars Venus 
R-Sal Moon 
Faw Raw 


From these calculation, | was confident that there was no 
promise of a child tothem They had been married for a period 
of ten years without any child. On 5-2-1975, evening, t told my 
friend of my prediction He confessed that many astrologers 
had said that they would have issues if they performed pooja 
etc., which they had done many a time but invain. Similarly the 
doctors too never disappointed them and prescribed medicines 
which also failed to give the desired result. After a few months, 
the couple adopted a child and felt satisfied. 


GOOD LUCK. 


PROMOTION AND 
RETROGRADE PLANETS 


On one day evening a gazatted officer entered my room and 
asked me to predict the time of his promotion and for this he 
furnished Ne. 120. 


The cuspal chart and the planetary position for the time of 
Judgement is given here. 


According our Gurujee in Reader VI Page 287 for promotion 
consider the 11" cusp and find out whether the lord of the sub 
of the 11" cusp in either retrograde or deposited in a 
constellation whose lord in retrograde . If either is retrograde 
one can not get promotion. If the Sub lord and the lord of 
constellation in which it is situated are in direct motion and if 
the same sub lord is also a significator of houses 2 or 6 or 10 
or 11 then the promotion is promised otherwise not. Fulfilment 
of all these three conditions is a must. If any one of them is not 
fulfilled, promotion is not guaranteed. 


Balance dasa of Kethu at the time of Judegment was 2 years 
8 months and 17 days only. 


Xlth Cusp sub lord is Mars. 


Planet Detail 


Planet Star lord Sublord 
Mercury Moon .Rahu 
Jupiter Mars Jupiter 
Sun Mars Venus 


Venus Jupiter Mercury 


KRISHNAMURT! PACDHDHATI 187 


Mars saturn Venus 
Kethu Kethu Mars 
Moon Kethu Jupiter 
Saturn Venus Mars 
Rahu Mars Sun 
a. 
VII | Viil 
Z240 2" 
io 
Vi 24°43) | ¥| 29°43) 
Rahu Mars 
a3 KP. No.120 9 6 
: 725 p.m. IST 
19-35-89 . 
Monday Sherghati ,; x! 24°43) 
Vad4a Kathu 
say 
IV 2743 
Moon 8° 10" bag 
Saturn} 21°43 21 49 
1F48 


In Reader Ill page 247, our Gurujee says that if the lord of the 
11" cusp is retrograde then only whatever he desires to have 
will not be had. Ambition can not be realized. 


Here there is no trace of star lord whether it may be direct or 
retrograde According to this rule only sub lord is deciding factor. 


And it is my personal experience that only sub lord decides 
the case. Many times | have seen that sub lord is in direct motion 
and the star lord in which sub lord is posited is in retrograde 
motion. And the desire has been fulfilled as predicted. 


1am putting here the same type of case and in future | shall 
also write the articles on different problems applying the same 
principle. 


186 RETROGRADE PLANT 
For Promotion the houses to be Judged are 2,6,10 and 117. 


To know the state of mind of the queriest the position of Moon 
must be taken. Here Moon is the owner of 11 if is posited in the 
3™, Moon is in the star of Kethu occupant of 11, Moon is 
aspecting 10 house. It is conjoined Saturn owner of 6, and 
aspecting Venus the owner of 2. Hence Moon is fully connected 
with 2,6,10,11 so question is clear regarding promotion. 


Now fer desire of fulfillment the 11“ cusp sub lord, is Mars 
which is in direct motion and is the occupant of 10. Mars is in 
the star of Saturn which is retrograde. So one condition is net 
fulfilled, and hence there is denial of promotion. 


But, here the sub lord of the 11t cusp Mars is making an 
applying aspect of beneficial nature from the 11* cusp, and 
Mars Is also in direct motion so the desire of the querist will be 
fulfilled. There is no question of any doubt or denial. 


Now the significators of the required houses are:- Venus, 
saturn, Rahu, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, sun, Kethu, Moon, all the 
nine planets. 


Ruling planets are Jupiter, Venus, Jupiter, Kethu, and Moon 
as.lagna sign lord, lagna star lord Moon sign lord, Moon star 
lord and day lord respectively. So the common significators 
among the two are Jupiter, Venus, Kethu, Moon, Present dasa 
is running of Kethu dasa and Jupiler Bhukti. Mercury Anthra will 
run upto 19-7-89. There after Kethu anthra will run upto 9-8-89 
with the end of Kethu anthra, the anthra of Venus will start and 
will run from 943-89 to 5-10-89. 


Among ruling planets Venus is stronger than Kethu. So it 
was predicted that the promotion will take place in Kethu dasa 
Jupiter Bhukti and Venus Anthra". 


He received the promotion letter in Kethu anthra on 1 -8-89 
but joined the promoted post on 17-8-89 in Venus anthra as 
predicted. 


KRISHNAMURTI PACDHDHAT| 189 


This clearly indicate that though the sub lord of the 11"cusp 
was in the constellation of retrograde planet, the promotion was 
not denied. 


RETROGRADE SATRUN AND 
SETBACK IN SERVICE | 


“Rice and success followed by downfall and adversity". This 
is how Saturn's position in the 10 house, especially when it is 
retrograde is summed up in various astrological works. This 
should be especially so if the sub lord of the 10" cuspis Saturn 
and it is retrograde and occupies the Midheaven {10 house). 
The native in whose chart Saturn is so place must suffer reversal 
at some stage of life, whatever position he or she may occupy. 
| would like to touch this topic in this article, using a chart in 
which Saturn as lord of 10, occupies the 10™ house in 
retrogression and where Saturn also happens to rule the sub 
on the cusp of the 10’ house. 


Mr, 'X', to whom the chart reproduced hereunder belongs, 
was eager to know whether he would regain the lost position in 
service. He had furnished a horoscope as cast by some one 
else, but | had corrected it according to the scientific method 
described in Knshnamurti Padhdhat. 


|. Horoscope chart: 


Wl we 
(118° Mars 24°47" 


All 


"6 Ven 14°28 
ib oe | NatalChart 58 
| 12-8-32 10.30 p.m. : 

— Lat 21-28 N 
714 Ayanamga : 22-49 Jup 7230" 
x56  Nep 14°44 
Kelu 25°34" 
Moan 14 27! 


VIN 15°6' VILS?" 


14 10R 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHATI 197 


ll. Planetary Positions: 

Planets Houses) House Sign Occupying 
owned occupied occupied  Statownedby Sub owned by 

Sun 5 4 Kataka Mercury Jupiter 
Moon 4 ) Dhanus Ketu Mercury 
Mare 18 3 Milhung Ray oafumn({R} 
Mercury 3/6 5 Simha Ket Rahu 
Jupiter G12 a) Simha Keb Rahu 
Venus ZF 3 MUhuna Rahu Ket 
SatwmniRj 1041 10 Makara Sun Ketu 
Agi - 11 Kumbha Jupiter Mercury 
Kel - 5 Rah Venus Marcury 


The native is a Class | Government Officer, whose service 
particulars are as follows - 


30-5-1957: Joined service as a class II officer in Sun Dasa, 
Mercury, bhukti, Mercury anthra. 


23-/-1962: Promotedto aclass | post in Moon dasa, Jupiler 
bhukti, Jupiter Anthra. 


30-11-1968: Promoted to a class | senior post in Moon dasa, 
Venus bhukti, Mercury anthra and Rahu sookshma. 


17-2-1969: Reverted to class 1 post which he held in July 
1962. As a result of this, he lose his seniority in service. 


The sub lord of the #0™ cusp in a chart determines honour, 
fame, recognition, advancement in professional life, etc. and, if 
afflicted reverses in life. 


Houses 2,6 and 19 and their significators are considered in 
connection with professional life. The life @nq house relates 
finance the 6" house denotes service in return for wages or 
drudgery, and the 10" house the professional skills acquired, 
honour, recognition, merit, etc., among the other matters. The 
houses which are twelfth to these house are said to negate the 
influences ruled by them, and form this angle, houses 1,5, and 
9 which are twelfth to houses 2,6 and 10 respecticvely, are 
called negating houses [hey do not contribute to the matters 
governed by houses 2,6, and 10. In other words, during the 
conjoint periods of planets signifying 1.5 and 9 houses, there 


192 RETROGRADE PLANT 


will be change of work or duties or even job, or the native may 
proceed on leave, and in some cases even face reversal in 
service in the ordinary course and not necessarily as 
punishment. Any matter by way of punishment would come 
under the preview of the 8" house which is referred to in 
classical literature as Adhi' (Mental pain), 'Parabhava' (defear 
or insult) and 'Apavadha (Scandal or ill-repute}. If the 
significators of houses 10 or 6 also happen to be a strong 
significator of houses 8 and 1, 5 or 9, then obstacles, 
impediments and mental agony in service matters are the 
indications If there is no connection with house 8, no such 
harmful results will ensue. 


In actual life, we find that when a certain dasa operates the 
native enters into service, rises in the ladder, faces reversals 
and inimical activites, recovers from mental agony, leads a 
normal professiola life fora number of years and then secures 
a spell of accelerated promotions, etc. While a dasa denotes 
certain general indications, the bhukties are more precise and 
mark the time of stresses and strains, and the anthras specify 
the good or adverse periods more accurately. A result is the 
inter-action of more than two or three planets and cannot be 
ascribed to one planet the dasa lord or Bhukti lord alone. If the 
dasa lord ‘A’ the bhukti lord 6 and the anthra lord ‘Cjointly 
signify houses which have relevance to advancement in service, 
their conjoint period in Vimshottari Dasa will bring it about. But 
if the dasa lord A though gocd for professional matters, is weak 
and the bhukti lord 'B' and anthra lord 'C’ are more powerful to 
cause inimical such as reversion to a lower post or suspention 
in service, etc.. but dint of their significations of evil houses, 
their conjoint period in YVimshottari Dasa will mark the time of 
adversity. From this it would appear that one cannot come to a 
judgment solely from the sub-lord of the 10° cusp or the 6" 
cusp alone, or form Saturn, whether it is in direct motion or in 
retrogression. The sub lord of the 10m cusp indicates, in a 
general way without reference to any period of time in life, the 
native's status in society, his honour, fame, recognition, 
advancement, etc , and whenever it transits in favourbale 


KRISHNAMURTI PAGHDGHAT!| 193 


positions in the Zodiac, it will further its natal indictions. 
especially if, at birth, it was a strong indicator of the 10 house. 
Let us study the example chart applying all these principles. 


Inthe chart under discussion, the 10" cusp falls in Saturn's 
Makara in Sun's nakshatra Uttarashada and in the sub division 
governed by Saturn. Saturn is retrograde and occupies the 10" 
house in his own sign and is thus very powertul for the affairs 
ruled by the 10". The 5" house is governed by Mercury as the 
Sign lord. sun as the nakshatra lord and ketu as the sub-lord, 
and ketu has gone to the 5" house in conjunction with Mercury 
lord of 6 in 5 and Jupiter, lord of 9 and 12 in 5. What role did 
Saturn plat in matter of the native's professional career? 


On 30-5-1957 (Thursday), when the native entered service, 
he was running Sun Dasa, Mercury Bhukti, Mercury Anthra. 
The transits then were as follows: 


—_—L —_1____ 


oy | Sun 1538" | 
Mer ae Ven 2746 ° Mas 2373) 
Ketu Moon 28°38 | 


Uranus 
40°47 
Transit Chart 
30-5457 


Jup.28°52 


Rahu 25 37" 
Satum {R 
- a Nep{R) 
76 


The dasa lord, Sun, was the only planet in the chart tenanted 
in the constellation of Mercury, lord of 6 (service). The 6" house 
was unoccupied. And so Mercury itself represents the 6" house 
also, in addition to its other indications. Sun, it may be 


194 RETROGRADE PLANT 


remembered, ‘is also the constellation ruler of the cusps of 
houses 6 and 10. 


Transit 


(1)Lord of 10 and 11, Saturn who was retrograde at birth, 
was retrograde in transit also. He was transiting in the 8" house 
of the natal char! But in the constellation and sub of Mercury, 
lord of 6, and bhukti and anthra lord. Sani transited the sign of 
Mars who, by virtue of his disposition in the consiellation of 
Rahu in 11 as the representative of Saturn, lord of 10 and 11, 
and _ in the sub of Saturn occupying powertully the 10” house 
as lord of 10, is a very strong indicator of the matters coming 
under the 70" and 11" houses. 


(2\Dasa lord, Sun, was exactly over cusp of the 2" house 
ofthe birth chart. Sun in the constellation ef Moon in 9 shows 
removal and long journeys. 


(3)Bhukti and anthra lord, Mercury, transited in lagna in the 
constellation of Venus, lord of 2. 


Moon 27¥ Mars 16°46’ 


Jupiter (A) Sun 6°55) 
18°44" Rahu 16°00 


Monday 23-7-62 


Ketu Nirayana Transit Chart 

16°09" Ura 54a’ 
Sat {R) Ven, 18°48 

1826 


KRISHNAMURT! PACHCDHATI 195 


(4)Moon transited in the 2" house in the constellation of Mars, 
a powerlul significator of houses 10 and 11. and the sub of 
Saturn, lord of 10 in 10. 


(5)Rahu was exactly in trine (120 degree aspect) to its natal 
position. 


On 23-7-1962, when he was running Moon dasa, Jupiter 
Bhukti and Jupiter Anthra, he obtained promotion to a class | 
post. The transits at this were as follows: 


Moon and Jupiter conjointly rule the 2nq cusp as the 
constellation and sub lords respectively. Otherwise they can 
have no connection by lordship or occupation to houses2,6,10 
or 11. They are not in the constellation of planets owning or 
occupying houses 2,6, 10 or 11, but are situated in the 
constellation of kethu conjoined with lord of 6. Moon and Jupiler, 
however, occupy at birfh the sub ruled by Rahu in 11 as agent 
of Saturn, lord of 40 and 11. 


Transit 


1. The promotion came when Moon was transiting in the 
12" house! If we go deeper and see the stellar position, we find 
Moon in the constellation of Mercury, lord of 6, and in the sub of 
saturn lord of 10 in 10. It is not simply the transit of planet in a 
favourable house that is important; what is more important is 
its transit in a favourable constellation. A planet in 11 denies 
but a planet in 8 or 12 gives favourable results. Why? Because 
of its favourable situation by constellation and sub. 


2. Sun transited Saturn's constellation and Mercury's sub. 
Saturn, as already seen, is lord of 10 in 10, and Mercury is lord 
of 6. (Sun in kataka 6°-55° was sextile or 60° aspect, a 
harmonious aspect, to the cusp of the house, but al the same 
time in Opposition or 180° aspect, an inharmonious aspect, to 
the cusp 10" house and to Saturn at birth. Did the western 
system of aspects really work, and if so whal meaning can be 
derived from a sextile aspect to the 6" cusp but an opposition, 
aspects to the 10" cusp? Bul, according to Krishnamurthi 


196 


Padhdhati, the explanation is thal the transiting Sun activated 
the part of the zodiac conjointly ruled by Saturn lord of 10, and 
Mercury, lord of 6.) 


3 Here also Satum, lord of 10, was retrograde by transit, in 
the constellation of Moon, dasa !ord, and sub of Guru, bhukti 
and anthra lord. 


4. Mercury,lord of 6,was transiting in Mithuna, his own sign, 
in the constellation ruled by Jupiter, Bhukti and anthra lord, and 
in the sub Moon, dasa lord 


5 Jupiter, Bhukti as well as anthra lord, was also retrograde 
by transit in the 11th house but in theconstellation of Rahu in 11 
in the natal chart, and Sub of Sun, constellation lord of 6 and 10 
houses. 


6. Rahu was transiting in the constellation of Satum, lord of 
10 in 10 and the sub of Jupiter. bBhukti and anthra lord. 


The native secured a second promotion on Saturn day 30- 
11-1968, when Moon was transiting in Revati nakshatra ruled 
by Mercury lord of 6 The transits during this time were as stated 
below:- 


saturday 30-11-62 
Nirayana Transit © 
hart 


Jup 6-55 
Ura 10-00" 
Mars 19-29 


Ketu 12°56 


Ven 29-27") Mer 11-22’ 


KRISHNAMURTI PACHDHATI 197 


The native was running Moon dasa. Venus bkukti. Mercury 
anthra and Rahu sookshama Moon as we have already seen, 
is constellation lord of 2 house Venus rules the 2™ house by 
sign, Mercury is lord of 6, and Rahu is in 14 as the agent of lord 
of {0 and 1. 


Transits 


1. Dasa lord Moon was transiting in the 12 house ('} in the 
constellation of lord of 6 and sub of Rahu, significator or 10 and 
11 houses. Incidentally, Was also in triné exactly to the natal 
position of Sun. 


2. Venus was transiting his own constellation and in the sub 
of Mercury, anthra lord, ruling 6 at birth. 


3. Anthra lord Mercury was transiting in the 8" house (!) of 
the natal chart but in the constellation of Saturn, lord of 10 
occupying also 10, and in the sub of Moon, dasa lord. 


4. Rahu, sookshama lord was transiting in the constellation 
of Saturn, lord of 10 in 10, and in Rahu'’s sub, 


Saturn 28 16 
Ven. 20°13" 
Rahu 846° 


Moon 16°5' 
Sun 4°59’ 


Monday 17-2-1969 


Nirayana Transit Chart 


Neptune Kethu 8°46 
5°20) 
Mars 33 Jup (R) 44°30" 


196 RETROGRADE PLANT 


5 Jupiter transited over the 6" cusp in the constellation and 
sub of Sun and Venus respectively and, incidentally, in trine to 
the radicial postion of Saturn. 


6 saturn was retrograde by transit as on the two earlier 
occasions and was in conjuction with Moon, dasa nierd, in trine 
to the radical Sun, Saturn, more significantly, transited the 
constellation of Mercury, lord of 6, and sub of Rahu in 11 inthe 
co-natal chart and it may be borne in mind that Mercury ruled 
the anthra and Rahu the sookshama at this time. 


The reversion came when the dasa of Moon, bhukti of Sun 
and anthra of Moon was in operation. The day was Monday 17- 
2-1969. The transits at the time were as noted below. 


Moon in the radical chart. is occupant of the 9" house, inthe 
constellation of Kethu in 5, Sun is lord of 5 in the constellation of 
Mercury, lord of 6 in 5, and sub of Juptier, lord of 9 in 5. Sun and 
Moon have strong connections with the 5" and 9" house also. 


Transits 


1 Transits Moon squared the position of Sun on 30-5-1957 
and 30-11-1968, Moon, by transit, was in the 11" house in the 
constellation of Rahu who was in the 12' house by transit; Moon 
was also in 12 by transit. Transiting Sun was in Mars nakshatra 
but in Sun sub. The reversion came when the dasa bhukti and 
anthra lords were transiting labhasthana (!) 


2 By transit, Saturn was in direct motion, but over the 
transiting positin of Mon on 23-7-1962, 


3. Transiting Mercuy, lord of 6, was over the radical position 
of Saturn, inthe constellation of Sun, lord of 5. 


Whenever Saturn was transiting in retrogression, the native 
only had beneficial effects and when it was direct by transit he 
Suffered! When the reversion came, Saturn was not ruling the 
period in any manner according to Vimoshottari dasa. How far 
is retrograde Saturn evil in this particular case? It is for readers 
to judge. 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHAT|! 199 


Will he regain his lost position? He is now running the dasa 
of Mars and bhukti of Saturn which commenced on 29-12-1797 #. 
The details of the anthras in this bhukti are as follows:- 


Dasa  Bhukti Anthra From To 
Mars Saturn saturn 29-12-1971 2-3-72 
Mercury 2-3-1972 28-4-72 
Ketu 28-4-1972 22-5-/2 
Venus 2e-5-1972 28-/-/2 
Sun 28-7-172 18-8-72 
Moon 18-8-1972 22-9-f2 
Mars 22-9-1972 15-10-72 
Rahu 15-10-1972 15-12-72 


Jupiter 15-12-1972 98-273 


Mars, as seen from the table furnished before, is in the 
constellation of Rahu and sub of Saturn. Rahu in the natal chart 
is placed in 11 as the agent of Saturn, lord of 10 who turn is in 
the 10" house itself Saturn is lord of 10 in the 10m house very 
near the cusp. So the dasa and bhukti lords are favourable. 
The ruling planets at the time of judgment on 3-6-1972 also 
happen to be Saturn and Mars, the day being Saturday, the rasi 
being Kumbha owned by Saturn, the nakshatra being Dhanista 
ruled by Mars, and the lagna being Vrischika governed by Mars 
in Saturn's constellation Anuradha. Since Rahu is now transiting 
in Saturn's sign Makara and also aspected by Mars by the 8" 
aspect, this anthra is the most powerful. When Rahu anthra 
runs between 15-12-1972 and 15-12-1972, the matter shuld 
take a favourable turn In this period, when Saturn starts 
retrograding from 3-10-1972 and transits in Mars star and Rahu 
sub in Venus sign Rishaba, Mars transit in Thula in the nakshatra 
of Rahu and sub of Saturn, Mercury (lord of 6) transits in the 
sign owned by Mars in the constellation governed by Saturn 
and sub of Rahu, and Hahu transits in Dhanus in Venus 
constellation and in sextile aspect (60 degrees) to its radical 
position. The day will be Thursday the 23ra November 1972 when 
Moon transits in the sign of lord of 6 Budha and the constellation 
lorded by Rahu. 


20C RETROGRADE PLANT 


This is the scientific explanation according to Krishnamurti 
Padhdhati On the other hand, What have our traditional 
astrologers to say? 


One famous Astrological Correspondence Institute makes 
the following forecast with regard to the same horoscope :- 


Mees Sani is in a state of retrogression and hence becomes 
highly malefic From the 10" Lord. Rahu occupies the 2™ house, 
commonly called maraca sthana or place or death. Instead of 
the native losing his job, he only suffered humiliation. The job ts 
held intact since San: 's staying in his own house strongly....... 
The native is at present having Kuja dasa, Guru Bhukti. Guru 
Bhukti will be over by March 1971 Guru is in the 9” from 
Chandra lagna and ©" from Lagna. It occupies the 12° from 
the 6" house having reference to litigations. From the 6" lord, 
Budha, he is in Kendra. From Chandra lagna Guru in the 9". As 
such Guru is quite favorable for the native in this respect. 
However, we have to look to the gochara movements. Sani will 
be in Mesha till August 1970. After Sani leaves Mesha, things 
will take a favourable shape. We can say that the native will 
have his writ decided in his favour and will be posted back to 
his original position in March-April 1971. By about August 1970, 
the present reversion will be set aside" 


Will our traditional friends point out a single clear-cut 
combination for reversion in service? Have they any basis to 
go by or are their predictions mere conjectured? What relevance 
has Karakasthana in relation to the present case’? What is al 
this mumboo-jumboo? 


"Krishnamurti Padhdhati", on the other hand offers clear, 
codified rules which go to help every one solve problems where 
in the ultimate analysis, is in the eating, and Astrology in India 
can hope to recover from the disease of stagnation that has 
been afflicting it only it decides to rid itself of the many fallacies 
and adopt, scientific theories arrived at affer proper investigation 
and research 


RESEARCH STUDY 


Experiment and Success 
Retrograde Sat and his Main Dasa 


(in the tight of theory of Retrogradation) 


The role of retrograde planets has already been discussed 
in the issue of Astrology and Athrishta in September 1978 It 
has been categorically emphasized that the retrograde planet 
or if it is posited in the star or sub or sub-sub of another 
retrograde planet in horary cannot completely slip away the 
matter One is to examine the retrograde planet in the following 
way. 


1. Whether the retrograde planet is a significator or signifies 
the required bhava. It is immaterial if it is in another retrograde 
Star or sub or sub-sub Result will be experienced when the 
retrograde star or sub or sub-sub planet will resume direct course 


2 Resultcan also be experienced during retrograde course 
of a planet if it is found in the vicinity of the Sun or in the star lord 
of which will be also within the vicinity of the Sun. Result expected 
is favourable rf it is within 20° of the Sun but let us be optimist 
upto 30° 


3 As regards Mercury and Venus, they are generally found 
within the vicinity of the Sun, specially in their retrograde course. 
Every year planets are once found in conjunct with the Sun but 
are not found in conjunct nature in their retrograde course except 
Mercury and Venus (Any ephemeris will speak this truth). 


4, During retrograde course of Mercury and Venus, they may 
be found in conjunct with the Sun in any good/evil bhava but if 
they are disposed inthe benefic sub or sub-sub, result will read 
as per desire. 


202 RETROGRADE PLANT 


§ Major planets like Saturn, Jupiter and Mars. if they are 
retrograde but disposed in the consiellation of Sun or m the 
constellation of such planet who is near to the Sun and if he is 
beneficially disposed in the sub or sub-sub of a benefic house 
should read the result even during retrograde course. 


In this discussion, we will try to establish how did retrograde 
Saturn in his main dasa offer desirably result for a transfer. 
This experiment can convenieér any one about the truth of Stellar 
Astrology and one may wonder how big and mighty it is! Next, 
in Sub-division, we have 249 subs in the zodiac. Before sub 
was discovered in 1951, our revered guruji Krishnamurti had 
been doing experiment with 108, based on 2? constellations 
and 4 padas ie. 27 x 4= 108. But he was dissatisfied with this 
sysiem by not having so much desirable results. He then thought 
of subs and numbers thus derived out of this process are 249 


No body has given so much attention to sub-sub thought it 
is mighter than the familiar sub. We have already seen thal 
sub-sub assures greater accuracy and we have established it 
to a great deal in the role of sub-sub So we have no objection 
if we split the sub into sub-sub. If we do so, numbers will be 
from 249 into 2193 inthe zodiac chart. lfone wants to go more 
deep into sub-sub-sub then numbers will be around 19,689. (In 
this connection, | have already prepared a table under caption 
"Table of sub-sub-sub". With the help of this table, the cuspal 
positions as well as planetary positions can be easily located 
within a fraction of a minute from sub to sub-sub-sub. Since 
sub-sub is sufficient, | have put the nos. (numbers) for sub and 
sub-sub only. Since numbers, in sub-sub-sub are gigantic, 
hence the idea to put numbers is dropped but sub-sub-sub are 
retained only with a view fo locating planetary and cuspal 
positions for our purpose. 


Hence the numbers in sub-su6 are 1 to 2193 But | do not 
ignore 249. Anybody who is already familiar with 249 can furnish 
number from 249 bul as regards, cuspal and planetary 
positions, | go even upto sub-sub-sub. It is my personal choice 
but not compulsory for any K.P Follower .Hence choice is leff 
free to all. Let us bern our disc: 'ssion 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 203 


Ketu 6-38-56 
XI) 14-45-10 
Jup (RA) 
28-17-56 


Il 14-45-10 


X 6-45-10 


No.301 {il 9-45-10 


(based on sub-sub theory} Sat (R} 
Date : 28-12-1976 


22-35-56 
Tuesday | 
Time - 6 p.m. LS.T. 
Place 85°20'E /22°6'N 


Ayan : 23°25’ 


Ee 


I¥ 6-45-10 


Merc {R) 
51-11 VII Riahu 
Vill 14-45-40 6-38-56 
sigeoia | 199080 | wy 44-45-40 
Mg 3-57-56 


V 845-10 


Balance of Saturn-R : 1 Year 5 months 26 days of which 
bhukthi of Jupiter upto 18-6-78 anthra of Mercury till 11-1-77. 
Ketu anthra from 12-t-77 to 4-3-77. 


Cuspal Position upto Sub-sub : 


Il Moon Saturn-R Venus Satum-R 
VI Venus Rahu Ketu Mars 

x sat-R Rahu Ranu Rahu 

M Jup-R Saturn-R Venus Moon 

All Mars Venus Venus Jupiter-F 
Planetary Positions upto sub-sub : 

Ketu Ketu Aianu Mercury 
Satum-R Mercury-R Moon Jupiter-R 
Mars Ketu Moon Rahu 
Mercury-F sun Rahu saturmn-R 


204 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Moon saturn-R Jupiter-R Mercury-R 
Jupiter-R Sun Moon Venus 
Rahu Mars Moon Sun 

Sun Venus Venus Venus 
Venus Mars Saturn-R Venus 


(note : Saturn restrograde till 11-4-77 
Jupiter retrograde till 16-1 -77 
Mercury-Retrograde till 17-1-77} 


Ruling Planets : 


1. Lagna-sub : Mercury-R 
. Lagna-star : Jupiter-R 
_ Lagna-Lord: Mercury-R 
. Moon-star : Saturn-R 
. Rashi-lord : Jupiter-R 
. Day-lord : Mars/ Ketu 


Oo & ww ho 


Analysis : 


The querent is only interested to go back to his H.Q. on 
transter are furnished number 301 out of 2193. 11™ cusp is 
essential here to be included for this, along with the houses 3, 
10 and 12. Ifthe sub-sub lord of 10 or 6 becomes the significator 
of 3 or 12 then transfer is promised. If sub-sub lord is connected 
with 5 or 9 or ? then also transfer will be imminent. 


One will instantly reject the prospect of this transfer after 
examining the planetary positions and the ruling planets atthe 
time of judgment. But on experimental basis, | assured the man 
that his transfer might be effective in Ketu anthra from 12-1-77? 
to 4-3-77, specially when the Sun would be transiting the star 
of Dhanistha-Mars in the 9" cusp, in the middle part of Feb, 77. 
My expectation came true amidstthumping bewilderment. The 
man got the transfer order on 5-2-7/ and left the station for 
H.Q. on 18" Feb, 77, when the Sun transited on Dhanishta- 
Mars in the sub of Moon in the 9n cusp. Let us discuss how 
have we arrived at the conclusion. 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHAT1 205 


Retrograde planet in the star of Sun or in the star of such 
planet who is in the vicinity of Sun and in the favourable sub- 
sub is responsible for such bewitching result. Retrograde planet, 
or star, or sub or sub-sub is not the bar that can obstruct the 
result. Favourable disposition may bring desirable result even 
in retrograde course. Readers may give trail on thisand they 
may please send their findings to the esteemed editor for 
publication. Many hidden things may come out for our benefit. 


Let us take retrograde planets first. They are Jupiter, Saturn 
and Mercury, Jupiter is in the star of Sun, the big luminary. 
Whether Jupiter is benefice or evil for transfer is a different 
question. Jupiter being in the star of the Sun has lost his 
retrograde power i.e. he is acting like a direct planet. Next 
Mercury is retrograde and he is in association with the Sun- 
within 16°, hence Mercury too has lost his retrograde power 
and will act like a direct planet. Whether Mercury is malefic or 
benefic, this does not arise at this moment. Now Saturn, the 
big major planet is also retrograde. Distance between Saturn 
and the sun is too far but Saturn is in the star of Mercury and 
Mercury is within the vicinity of Sun within 16°, hence Saturn 
too will be losing his retrograde power. Whether Saturn is 
favourable or not is to be scrutinized afterward. So retrograde 
or direct is not a vital issue. Now we will scrutinize the planets 
that signify the bhavas 3-10-11-12. 


Ketu and Moon : they are in the sub-sub of Mercury and 
Mercury is in the star of Sun at 7. Sun owner of 4 (residence) at 
? (frequent change), hence Ketu and Moon are good for transfer. 


Jupiter, sun and Venus : theyare in the sub-sub of Venus 
and Venus js in the star of Mars at 7. Mars owner of 7 and 712 
(different environment), hence Jupiter, Sun and Venus are good. 


Saturn ; Saturn is in the sub-sub of Jupiter and Jupiter is in 
the star of Sun at 7, hence saturn is good. 


Mars : he is inthe sub-sub of Rahu and Rahu is in the star of 
its own and Rahu is at 5 (negation to daily attendance), hence 
good. 


206 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Mercury . he is inthe sub-sub of Saturn and Saturn is in the 
star of Mercury and Mercury is at 8 but in association with the 
Sun and Mars at the 7" bhava, hence good. 


' Rahu : it is inthe sub-sub of Sun and Sun is in the star of 
Venus at 9 (negation to profession), hence good. 


Whether transfer is promised is to be examined first. Sub- 
sub lord of 10“ cusp is Rahu, We have earlier seen that Rahu 
has been found good hence transfer is imminent. Yet we can 
examine it in the usual way. Rahu is in the star of mars at 7. 
Mars owner of 12 aspects 11" and 3, hence transfer is sure. [ff 
we want to examine it by the 6" cusp then also it is promised. 
oUb-sub lord of 6” is Mars, lord of 7 and 12 at 7 is in the star of 
Ketu at 11 (desire), Ketu conjoins Jupiter at 12) different 
environment, hence transfer is promised. 


In quest of significatars for 3, 10,11 and 12. 


Saturn at 3, none at 10 Moon and kethu at 11 and Jupiter is 
at 12. Hence they are Saturn, Moon, Jupiter and Kethu and 
they are the significators for 3, 10, 11 and 12. In our earlier 
scrutiny, we see that Satum, Moon, Jupiter and Kethu are found 
good and their stars or sub-sub is equally good and beneficial. 


Let us see who may be the other significators. 


1. Kethu is in the star of Kethu; and none is in the sub-sub 
of ketu. 


2. None is on the star of Moon, and none is the sub-sub of 
Moon. 


3. Moon is in the star of Saturn, and mercury is inthe sub- 
sub of Saturn. 


4. None is in the star of Jupiter, and Saturn is in the sub-sub 
of Jupiter. 


The final significators are Kethu, Moon, Saturn, Jupiter and 
Mercury. Now if we take common from the RPS at the time of 
judgement, only Moon will be dropped. Now Kethu, Saturn, 
Mercury, Jupiter and Rahu wilt decide the issue. Saturn dasa, 


KRISHNAMURT( PADHDHATI 207 


Jupiter Briukti and Mercury anthra (upto 11-1-77}, Kethu anthra 
is from 12-1-77 to 4-3-77 Now Sun in transit, will pass through 
the stars Venus (Sun is already in the Venus) and Sun and they 
are not the significators. When Sun will passs through Venus 
star he will cover 27° in Dhanu. Mercury anthra will come to an 
end on 11-11-77. Hence Mercury anthra will not read the result 
We can now look to Kethu anthra, who is agent of both Mars 
and Jupiter Kethu anthra is from 12-1-77 to 4-3-77, Sun will be 
transiting in Ohanishta Mars star from 6" of Feb., 77 to 19" of 
Feb, 77 and then onward in Rahu star upto 5-3-77. Transit of 
sun in this zone in the $" cusp appears to be favourable. It is 
expected that transfer may be effective during this period even 
though Saturn remains in retrograde motion whose main dasa 
iS ON. 


My expectation came true and the man went on transier to 
his H.Q. on 8.2.7? amidst utmost surprise when Sun transited 
in the star of Dhanista Mars and in the sub of Moon. Though 
Moon is not found common in the R.P.3. but ultimately she is in 
the star of Saturn who Is a fruitful RP It is proved that any planet 
in the star ofa RP is also a RP. Then why not the man did go 
when Sun transited in the star of Sravana-Moon’? But it was a 
fact that the querent received the transfer order on 5'"" Feb, 77 
when the Sun was in Moon star in the 9" cusp. It is a research 
study, and scholar may throw more light on this and their kind 
attention is invited forthe development cf the science. 


Good Luck. 


RETROGRADE PLANETS 
VIS-A-VIS MINOR EVENTS 


More often than not, some of the astrologers discuss the 
charts which they have erected for finding out fructification of 
certain events irrespective of their nature - whether minor or 
major events in life - reject outright the planets that are 
Retrograde in motion. | have come across a few where even in 
case of minor events they reject retrograde planets while 
discussing and pitch up the very planet while offering prediction, 
as has happened, for example, in one article published in the 
Magazine, September issue. 


Before writing anything further on this issue and giving my 
own experience, | would like to refer the readers to the Text 
Book on Horary Astrology by our Great Guruji, wherein on page 
No.146, under the heading Ruling Planets’ he clearly and 
categorically states that planets in retrograde motion if deposited 
in the constellation of a planet which is in direct motion indicate 
that after some obstacles and delay, the matter will materialize 
(underline mine), when {tis in direct motion again and passes 
beyond the point where-from retrograde motion started. 


What | make out from the above is that he never said that 
whenever you come across a Retrograde Planet among the 
Ruling Planets, it deserves outright rejection. You will have to 
find out first whether it is in the constellation and Sub of a 
retrograde planet. Ifso, it cannot give the results and hence to 
be rejected. Ifit happens to be in the constellation and Sub of 
planets in direct motion, it will definitely offer the results and the 
matter will materialize. But when? When the planet comes again 
into direct motion and passes the point wheretrom it started 
retrograde motion (correct K.S.K.) 


VUSHWNAMURT) PADHDHAT 209 


in case of Minor events which would fructify ina day or two 
or even within a few hours of time, if anybody predicts that the 
matter will fructify when the planet comes into direct motion 
and passe:sihat point from where it started its retrograde course, 
| need not say how miserably the astrologer would fail. "As the 
planet still continues to be retrograde we should reject the same 
outright". If anybody says like this, his experience would itself 
open his eyes and tell him that by disregarding such planet he 
failed to arrive at the correct conclusion On the basis of my 
above reasoning | started working out some questions, 
predicting the events taking the Retrograde Planets also into 
consideration and in almost all cases where the Retrograde 
Planets are involved, my predictions have come correct, This 
is not any deviation from the principles of K P This, i feel, what 
just our Guruyt has stated in his most popular work on Horary 
Astrology. (Statement is clearly and correctly stated-K.S K.). 


| therefore, thought it is advisable to bring it to the notice of 
the readers of ‘Astrology & Athrishta’, one of my latest 
experiences, so that the readers, particularly those who have 
been out rightly rejecting Retrograde Planets also in judging 
the events-particularly the Minor Events 


lt was on the 28" evening (28-8-1971) when | was going for 
evening walk with a friend Mr. Nageswara Rao, who is also a 
student of K.P, Mr.Rao reminded me of the fact that a common 
friend of ours. who is staying about 8 miles away from here, 
informed him that he would be coming to my place on Saturday 
evening. Therefore if we go out for walk as usual, he may come 
and finding none in the house think that these fellows have gone 
out even after their being informed well before. He, therefore, 
suggested that as it will not take much time, | should find out 
astrologically when this gentleman would come. 


Immediately | came inside my chambers and started working 
out the ruling planets as per K.P. The time then was exactly 
6.00 P.M. The sidereal time was noted, the Raphael's tables 
were referred and found that the Lagna rising in the East for 
23MO'N at that tme was around 3° of Kumbha That means 


210 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Saturn sign and Mars (R) star. Moon was then transiting in 
saturn star and Mars (R) sign Scorpio, The day lord was also 
‘Saturn. Therefore, the ruling planets were Saturn & Mars (R) 
As soon as | noled down these planets as Ruilng Planets, my 
friend Mr. Rao, said to himself, ‘Mars’ a Retrograde Planet - 
How can he offer the results? Then said to me, as the sky was 
cloudy and might rain anytime thereafter this gentleman may 
not come that day and come to us only on the Sunday morning. 
| reacted immediately and said that he would not come ona 
ounday as Sun was not a ruling planet to which he also readily 
agreed. 


The ruling planets are Saturn and Mars (R). Mars is conjoined 
with Rahu and aspects Ketu Therefore, Rahu and Ketu are 
also to contribute for the tructitication of the event in question. 
That means, all these four planets conjcintly operate when our 
common friend comes te us The combination of all the above 
four planets are found in the zodiac between 19°-13'-20" and 
20°-60'-00" of Kumba; between 14°-26'-40" and 15°13'20" of 
Kumbha and between 5°33'20" and 7°33'20" of Aries - Mesha 
and soon. 


Experience shows that wherever Saturn is involved in 
offering results he offers the results after sufficient delay [, 
therefore, thought that he would not allow the gentleman to meet 
us so shortly when the Kumbha Lagna rises. In addition to that, 
Rahu is the storongest, being conjoined with one Fuling Planet 
and occupying the sign of another ruling planet. Therefore, tt 
will be during Rahu sub only and that too in the Sub-Sub of 
oatum i.e. 6°O7'20" Aries (Nirayana). From the Table of Houses 
| calculated the time when that position would rise in the East 
and it comes to 9-16 P.M ((IST) Therefore, | told my friend Mr. 
Rao that he would come, aniy at 9-16 P.m. (IST). 


We went out for walk accordingly, and returned only after 
7.30 p.m. Itwas then raining heavily. My friend therefore thought 
that the prediction would fail. But he did not tell me. | was trying 
to look calm and indifferent. But, still in my mind | was thinking 
of it alone and | had the confidence that the Retrograde Mars 


KRISHNAMURT] PADHDHATI 211 
and his agents Rahu and Ketu would not fail me. 


Thereafter, we had our dinnertalking matters connected with 
housing problems. Then there was knock at my doors. The 
next moment the gentleman was in. It was sharp 9-16 p.m. My 
friend enquired from him how he could come in such rain; the 
gentleman gave his own explanation. That gentleman . who 
also knows traditional astrology was later informed about our 
prediction and the readers can well imagine his feelings at that 
moment. 


inthe meantime {thanked the Retrograde Mars for not letting 
me down. | bowed down my head and paid regards to my Guruji 
who has discovered such a system as K.P. which will never 
fail. 


RETROGRESSION - AN ENIGMA 


A retrograde planet had denied me the thunder when, in the 
initial days of my induction into Stellar Astrology ! ventured a 
prediction which proved right, yet wrong. The event fructified 
as predicted whereas timing went berseck. Amateurs as well 
as adepts in the field ery in symphony that both Retrograde 
planets and Timing of events are but the two problems which 
perpectually stab the ego of Astrologers. 


In my article (April 1978 issue) | made a passing reference 
to my initial encounters in Astrology resulting in inevitable ups 
and downs and that the "Post-mortem" reviews are nevertheless 
rewarding Here is how | experience It. 


One of my friend, a first class graduate appeared for the 
selection of Scientific Assistants conducted by the Electronic 
Corporation of India Limited, Hyderabad, in March 1973 in which 
he fared hopefully well but did not get any communication till 
October, 1975, not even a regret letter Hear say information 
was that the selections were finalized and the candidates already 
informed. He was anxious to know the result since it was his 
first appointment. He came to me on 15-10-1975 and quoted 
No. 100 The chart was worked out on the same day at 1.00 
p.m, strictly according to the principles laid down by our late 
guruji Sri. K.S. Krishnamur. 


Book used Astrology & Athrishta Magazine October 1975. 
Dasa  Bhukthi Anthra From To 


Mars Venus Mercury 8-10-75 7-12-1975 
Mars Venus Ketu ?-12-75 2-1-1976 
Mars Sun — 2-1-76 8-5-1376 


IMars Moon — 8-5-/6 8-12-1976 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHATI 


Rahu Rahu — 8-12-76 20-8-1977 
Rahu Rahu Rahu 20-8-77 4-5-1979 
Jupiter (RI). IX 247-28 Mars 
26-01 Kalu 6 -O2 
VIL 237-26" 29°-58' Xi 29°26 
Horary Chart 100 
eee Date: 15-10-1975 maa 
A oy Wednesday 34°95" 
Time-1 p.m.-Srikakulam 
OO 17 NS ASSTE 
Ayanamsa 29°25 
VI 2426" Balance of Mars Dasa 
1¥ 1M 23Days 
Rahu 29 -58 Merc {FR} 
NM 24°26" ll 24"-26 167-36" 
Neo.16°-25' Uranus | 2a°-26° 
R-4 1" Sn, 27-40 
Planet Star Lord Sub Lord 
Sun Mars Saturn 
Moon Mars Venus 
Mars Mars Moon 
Mercury (R) Moon Saturn 
Jupiter (FR) Mercury Rahu 
Venus Venus Venus 
saturn Saturn Venus 
Rahu Jupiter Moon 
Ketu Sun Rahu 
Cusp Star Lord Sub Lord 
il Jupiter Mercury 
VI Mars Rahu 
MG Mars Rahu 
x! Jupiter Mercury 


213 


214 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Analysis: 


Moon, the unfailing indicator of the Querrent’s mind, is in 6" 
bhava, denoting about success in competitive Examination and 
Service, in the star of Mars in 10, the universally acclaimed 
house of profession. M.C. is in the sign of Venus, star of Mars 
and sub of Rahu. Rahu in libra is an agent of Venus, Thus M.C. 
is Under the sway of Venus and Mars. Venus representing and 
Mars signifying machinery, it may be argued that MC represents 
Electronics Department. The chart thus tallies with the Query. 
The exchange of houses between Moon and Saturn causing 
Punarphoo explains the waxing and wanning of hopes and the 
delay 


X| Cusp sub-lord, Mercury who is also the lord of XI house is 
in the star of Moon in 6 and sub of Saturn in 11 which indicates 
success after initial reverses because the sub-lord of XI Cusp 
is under the sway of planets causing punarphoo but both are 
connected with houses of success. The retrograde state 
Mercury; is interpreted to worsen the delay. The net result 
appeared to be that his name will be in the waiting list but surely 
he willbe asked to join the concem ata later date. Astrological ly 
there is not one factor against his success and | re-assured 
him about it likewise the prediction proved correct. 


S0 far, so good. The real somersaults started in timing the 
event, An event is known to fructify during the conjoint periods 
of significators. The signal point where K.P. diverts from Hindu 
system is in the process of selection of significators. | 
attempted at the selection of significators as follows ; 


significators of the houses concerned with the query : 
2 - Sun, Ketu, Jupiter, Mercury 

6- Mercury, Moon, Saturn. 

10 - Sun, Moon, Mars, Venus, Rahu, Ketu. 


Once 3 or 4 planets emerge out as the most powerful 
significators with the dasa of one of them concurrently running, 
out of reluctance of my mind, | refused to work furfher which is 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 215 


not al all academic in nature. Mars whose Dasa was running is 
selected to bless the native with the job since it is situated in its 
own star in 10" bhava. Venus was rejected since it ts in 12 and 
in its own star and sub and thus powertully signifying 12'" bhava. 
Sun whose antara operated from 2-1 -76 to 8-5-76 was chosen 
as the most opportune period since Sun is in Il bhava in the 
Star of Mars discussed above Mercury was Retrograde from 
15-1-76 to 4-2-76 and the period was eliminated effortlessly 
since Mercury is Retrograde in the chart. Retrogression of Mars 
in January made me to eliminate January 1976. Cautiously | 
predicted that he would receive orders in March or April 1976. 
Pat, came the order on 17-10-1975 when Mercury was still 
Retrograde 


A word about Retrograde Mercury, Writers may note that 
draftings made while Mercury, the Karaka for writing, is 
Retrograde, the article has to be re-written. Auditors finalizing 
partnership deeds or Agreements made during the planet's 
retrogression get stuck up for one reason or other till the planet 
becomes Direct. 


In the given case Mercury is not only the lord and sub lord of 
Xl cusp but its interperiod was also running. The antara lord is 
Venus who was rejected since he is in 12. 


Review Venus as lord of 10 is in its own star and sub which 
factor weighs assertively for deciding the time of fructification 
of the event. During its sub-period the candidate was induced 
as a trainee since Rahu had to function better by Its placement 
in the sign of Venus. Libra. Aptly he was confirmed in the post 
in April, t9?7 when the period running was Rahu dasa. 
Rahubhukthi and Rahu Anthara. This ts a fact which is no more 
for discussion. How then, rahu in the star of Retrograde Jupiter 
could confirm him in the Job in its Bhukthi and Anthara, as a 
matier of controversy. 


Can a Node act independent of its star lord or counteract 
the effects of star lord and acquire or usurp the capacities of 
the rasi lord? Or since nodes, though imaginary points, move 
always backwards the retrograde state of its star lord claiming 


216 RETROGRADE PLANT 


exemption from the accepted principles of astrology. As pointed 
out by Sri Namacnivayam in Feb. '79 issue in the article “Mariage 
and Behaviour of nodes" the behaviour of nodes is always 
puzzling in the interpretation of horoscopes. One persistent 
point to note is that Rahu is the sublord of 4 cusp which is open 
to all Readers for interpretation. 


Editor’s Review : 


Your friend is interested in only getting the results about his 
interviews eventhough it is worried about his service in his mind 
while opted through the constellation of Moon. But Moon at the 
time of judgement is posited in the sub of Venus, lord of 3 and 
10 in 12" Bhava clearly indicates that he is mostly worried about 
the hearsay rumours of the interview and wanted to know about 
the communication. Here Sa house falls in Venus sign, Thula 
Rasi Jupiter star Mercury sub. Mercury,Retrograde, in Kanni, 
its own in the star of Moon, and sub of Saturn in Al Bhava. Ill 
house falls in a movable sign and Mercury also is posited in the 
star of Moon a quick-moving planet. But Saturn, sublord of 
Mercury, is a slow-moving planet and also Saturn occupied 
Moon Rasi and Saturn, Moon have got parivarthana Yoga. Hence 
friend's ambition will be some what delayed in getting 
communication to his hearsay rumours. 


On 17-10-1975 was Friday ruled by Venus. Moon was 
transiting in Jupiter star in Kumbha Rasi ruled by Saturn. Jupiter 
is in the star of Mercury and sub of Rahu in Illrd bhava. When 
Moon transitted in Saturn sign Jupiter star Sun sub he got the 
communication for his hearsay rumours giving an apprentice 
appointment. His service was confirmed when Rahu Dasa Rahu 
Bhukthi Rahu anthara operated, Rahu being posited in the sub 
of Moon who has got partivarthana yoga with Satrun in Al Bhava 
and Moon herself: is in VI Bhava. - 


Grood Luck. 


ROLE OF RETROGRADE 


JUPITER & HOROSCOPY 
(In the light of Advanced Stellar Astrology) 


There are divergency in opinion about the effects of 
retrograde planets in a nativity among the traditional astrologers. 
Various rules are given in different astrological texts which are 
contradictory to each other. We shall discuss these rules one 
by one. 


First of all we should know what is meant by retrogration of 
Planets? The movement of planet is always in forward direction. 
No planet actually moves in backward direction in the Zodiac. 
When observed from the earth due to the difference in speeds 
of the planets; their movement appears to be backward. This 
apparent backward motion ts called 'retrogration’. It is caused 
by combined motion of a planet and the earth and their positions 
relative to the Sun. 


sun and Moon are never retrograde. Rahu and Ketu are 
always in retrograde motion. 


saturn is retrograde for 140 days and stationary about 5 
days before and after retrogration. 


Jupiter is retrograde for 120 days and stationary about 5 
dyas before and after retrogration. 


Mars is retrograde for 80 days and stationary 2 to 3 days 
before and after. 


Venus is retrograde for 42 days and stationary 2 days before 
and affer. 


Mercury is retrograde for 24 days and is stationary one day 
before and after retrogration. 


218 RETROGRADE PLANT 


The rules given in different classical astrological texts about 
the effects of retrograde planets aré summerised below: 


‘Uitarakalamritam" by Kalidasa, chapter !|, Verse 6: When a 
planet is retrograde in his motion, his strength is similar to that 
when in exaltation. If a planet is conjoined with a retrograde 
planet, his strength is increased. If a planet be retrograde in his 
motion while in his exaltation house, he gets only his 
neechabala. If a planet be retrograde while in his debilitation 
house, his strength is similar to that when in his exaltation. 


"Phaladeepika" by Mantreswara, chaper IV, verse 4: A planet 
is said to possess strength when he Is retrograde of when his 
rays are full and brilliant though posited in depression or inimical 
rasi or amsa. 


“Saravali", chapter V. verse 30: The benefics being strong 
with the strength of retrogration will bestow kingdom and malifics 
in retrogration will cause miseries and unnecessary travels. 


Llewellyn George in his "A to Z horoscope Maker and 
Delineater" writes: "We believe thal the influence of benefic 
planet is weakened when they are retrograde. The condition of 
retrogration is contrary or inharmonious to be regular dissection 
of actual movement in the Zodiac and is in that respect will, 
hence when malefic planets are retrograde their malefic is 
increased". 


Grace Inglis observes in her book "Retrograde Planets": "In 
our experience, we have observed that when a planet is in 
Retrogradation, it fails to give the result of the house or houses 
of which he is the lord or the significator.” 


Our late Guruji K.S.Krishnamurti in his ‘'Horary Astrology" 
states: “In a natal chart, do not worry whether a planet is in 
direct motion or retrograde. There is no difference. Retrograde 
planets neither loses strength nor they are harmful." 


Inthis present article we are discussing the role of retrograde 
Jupiter in nativity with the theory of retrogration of planets. 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHATI 219 


et 


Let us illustrate the matter with the help of following birth 
chart, The casting is done according to K-P. Birth time is rectified 
with Rulling Planets theory. 


IX 26-20 
Sun 18-27 Ven 3-47 
Mercury | *7530 | Keutao7 | *! 99? 
1 
vil | Xib 4-22 
2632 | te1956Sunday | Jup (R) 
Vil0e?  at2-38 PM. (LMA) © 2845 
- —___ Lat. 25°46'N — --- 
| Long 89°17'E 
| ono! Asc. 0-27 
VI 1-22 Ayanamsa 23°09 26-42 
Mn. 26-55 
Mar 28-04 Rahu 18-07 
VO37 Nr Sal{R) PY 28-30 ll 26-20 
919 


Mercury dasa Balance : 3y - 11m-5D 


Planetary Positions: 


Planets Sign Lord Star Lord sub Lord 
Sun Jupiter Mercury Mercury 
Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter 
Mars Jupiter oun Moon 
Mercury = Jupiter saturn Rahu 
Jupiter (R) Moon Mercury saturn 
Venus Venus oun Saturn 
[Saturn (R) Mars saturn Venus 
Rahu Mars Mercury Mercury 


Ketu Venus Moon Mercury 


e2Q RETROGRADE PLANT 


In the chart under study, Jupiter is posited in the 12" point. 
Any planet in the 42" point is very undesirable according to the 
traditional theory. But Jupiter here is exalted. So it gets some 
strength. Again it is retrograde atso. Applying “Uttaara 
Kalamritam’s rule Jupiter is malefic to this nativity. According to 
Llewellyn George and Grace Inglis, Jupiter is inauspicious. But 
as per rule of "Phaladeepika" and "Saravali" Jupiter becomes 
benefic by retrogration, So the above rules are contradictory 
and confusing. 


Now we shall apply stellar theory. A planet may be posited in 
any sign or in any house. If the planet is deposited in the 
constellation and sub of the significators of a particular matter 
under judgement then il is favourable for that particular matter 
only. A planet never loses its strength by retrogration. Practically 
retrogration in a natal chart is nothing. 


Here in this case, Jupiter is not harmful by Mercury 
retrogration, Jupiter gets some power by exaltation. Although tt 
is posited in the 12" house but deposited in the star of Mercury 
(lord of 11) and sub of Saturn (lord of 6). Jupiter aspects the 6" 
house by the 7* aspect. Sun (lord of 2) is aspected by Jupiter 
(9" aspect). So Jupiter is a strong significatior of houses 2, 6 
and 11, 2na house indicates money matters, fortune and profit. 
6th house signifies service and favourable result in competition. 
Success in all undertakings, profit and incoming wealth are 
indicated by the 11" house. 


The native got the employment in Venus dasa and Jupiter 
bhukti on 1* December 1977. Venus occupies 10" point. 10" 
house denotes appointment, profession, occupation/ousiness. 
So Jupiter although retrograde at the time of birth yet it gave the 
native employment in its own bhukthi period. By transit Jupiterr 
was retrograde on #* December 1977, But retrograde motion 
of Jupiter did not deny the happening. At that time Jupiter was 
transiting the 11" point, inthe sign of Merucy (lord of 11), in the 
Star of Rahu and in the sub of Jupiter. Rahu is conjoined with 
saturn (lord of 6) and aspectred the 10" point. The transit of 
Jupiter is favourable for employment. 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI PA 


The native's service was confirmed on 1° Novermber 1978. 
when he was running Venus dasa and Jupiter bhukt. On 1* 
Novermber 1978 Jupiter was in direct motion by transit. It is 
meaningless whether Jupiter is in direct or retrograde motion. 
By transit Jupiter was passing through the 12" point, in the 
sign of Moon, in the star of Saturn and in the sub of Rahu. 
Saturn {lord of 6) aspected the 10" house So the transit of 
Jupiter is harmonious. 


In order to explain the role of retrograde Jupiter in a natal 


chart we are now analyzing the horoscope of our present Prime 
Minister, Sri Moraji Desai. His birth chart is given below- - 


ASO. 
Rahu 
Sun Jup. {Rj 
29-2-1896 

Yeous | 

Mars ioe 
Mercury °° 

Saturn HI 26-29 


Venus Dasa Balance: 2 yrs, 8 moths, 4 days. 


In this chart Jupiter, lord of the 7" and 10" houses is posited 
in the 2"° house being exalted and in retrograde motion 
According to Grace Inglis "If Jupiter is in retrogradation, it is net 
a good factor in considering one's finance, progency, fate, 
reputation and gains generally, in addition if he happens to be 


222 RETROGRADE PLANT 


the lord of the 7" and the 10" houses, his married lofe and 
working environments will not be homogenous.’ If this theory is 
valid then Sri Desai would not be able to obtain the Prime 
Minsitership, his married life would be unhappy, he would not 
acquire rank and position, name and fame, honour and prestige. 
But that is not the case. Retrograde and exalted Jupiter gave 
him Prime Ministership. happy married life, rank and position 
also. So retrograde Jupiter is not a bar in giving the desired 
results. 


Sri Desai got the Prime Ministership at the age of 81, Now 
what is the cause of his delay in obtaining the Prime 
Ministership’? It is due to the square aspect of Saturn on Jupiter. 
saturn is a planet of delay and dejection Jupiter indicates rank, 
position and mintstership Sri Desai was elected as Prime 
Minister of India on 24" March 1977. At that time he was 
undergoing Mercury dasa and Mercury bhukthi. Let us study 
whether Mercury ts eligible for giving him that highest post. 
Mercury lord of 1 and 4 is inthe 8m house. Although Mercury is 
in the 8 point yet it is conjoined with Venus, lord of 5 
(ministership) and Mars, lord of 6 and 11 (victory in competition 
and success in undertakings). Mercury is aspected by Jupiter 
lord of 10 (rank, honour and post). So Mercury dasa is highly 
favourable for Sri Desai. 


From the above analysis we may conclude that retrogration 
of planet in a natal chart is not a bar in giving the fruitful result if 
the planet concerned is favourable disposed by Star / Sub 
position and by aspect. 


ce eee eee 


~ *YOU HAVE FAILED IN 
PREDICTION” 
SAYS A POLITICIAN __ 


On 5-5-79, a Saturday, a minister from A P. sent for me to 
know about his future in politics. 


He posed a question to know if his present status would 
continue and gave No: 120 to work out Horary. 


It Was 3-30 p.m. when I took to working, using Ayanamsa of 
K.S.K. 23° — 28 for 1979. 


Place: Madras 


Mas( 24-23-15) 
Mercury 20.81 10) 
(2740-30} [A 21-3451" | X 21-34'57 
VII 22-400" Vill 


Ve (21-18) | 22-3491" 


VI 


Jupiter 
21-3451" 7-59-25 
Kel NIRAYANA \ x| 
(21-10-15) § HORARY CHART 94-34'5Y 
—— —— Balance In Ketu —_—_— 
Period Moon 4-12-55 
V rs 4-95-14 days sat (R} 13-38 
21-3451" y J Rahy 21-10-1 
| All 22-3451" 


oe 
IV i 


org451" | 2gegagir | H22S451" | 122-400 


224 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Cusp Sub Lord 
sun 
i Saturn 
i sun 
IV Jupiter 
V Venus 
VA oatum 
Vil Moon 
Milt Saturn 
IX Venus 
x Jupiter 
pt oun 
Xll saturn 
Planets otar Lord oub Lord 
Sun Venus Jupiter 
Moon Ketu Moon 
Mars Mercury satum 
Mercury Mercury Jupiter 
Jupiter Satum Ketu 
saturn (R) Venus Venus 
Venus Mercury Venus 
Rahu Venus Jupiter 
Ketu Jupiter Jupiter 


The strength of the 10" cusp sub lord has to be assessed to 
know about the political prosperity and ministership also. 


At the time of the judgement, the sublord of the 10m cusp 
should be Direct in movement duety signifying 10" or 17", or 
6” or 1%, 

At this Juncture, fwish to reproduce below the clear findings 
of our late revered Guruji Sri K S.K.’on this subject (see page 
146 of Horary Astorlogy by Sri K.S K.),for the benefit of the 
students of K.P. 


“Retrograde Horary Chart" 


KAISHNAMURTI PADHDHAN 225 


"In Horary Horoscope, planets in Retrograde motion if 
deposited in the constellation of a planet which is in Direct motion 
indicates that after some obstacle and delay, the matter will 
materialize, when it is in Direct motion, and passes beyond the 
point where from retrograde motion started." 


"But planets in; Retrograde if deposited in the constellation 
of another retrograde planet or in its own, when retrograde 
promises only failure. Never success." 


In the above Horary chart, the sub-lord of the Ath cusp was 
Jupiter, stationed in the Xth bhavam. This position was very 
encouraging. 


The same Jupiter was deposited in the constellation of Saturn 
situated in the Xfth, which was also very promising. 


But, it was at the same time, very unhappy and discouraging 
to note that the above Saturn inthe Alth, in whose constellation 
the deciding sub lord of the Xth cusp Jupiter was deposited, 
was in Retrograde motion. (up to 9-5-79). And so, it was final in 
my mind (in terms of K.S.K.'s findings above) that the matter 
for which it was queried (ie continuance of ministership) was 
not promising and he would loose his status and very soon he 
would hear, as the sublord of the XIth cusp Sun was found 
deposited in Aries, a movable sign. 


The above result was concreted for the fact that the Xth 
cusp sublord Sun, was in the Vilth having no planet in its stars 
and thus becomes a full significator of the Vilth and this position 
is not a supporting factor for the happy result of the matter now 
queried. 


| am never in the habit of telling out anybody any result that 
were to be very unpleasant or unhappy or that gives a stricking 
effect on the mind of the consultant. 


$0 | just told him. that he would be in better status after 9-5- 
79, when Saturn becomes Direct; and i come away, again on 
the night of 7-5-79 I was sent for, by the same V.I_P. and the 
same query was repeated, duly giving the No. 139. 


226 RETROGRADE PLANT 


The horary chart was drawn under K Plines 


Itwas 8-40p m Ayanamsa was 25°-28 (KSK). Itis as under.- 
Mars(29-5} | Mer (1-21) Xx 


oO VIII 
Verus (24-1) | Vil 20-00 ; 
vi 22-50' 13' | Sun (22-59) | 1801S 18-5013 


Jupiter 
Ketu era | (8-15) 
obso13 NIRAYANA | KX 
HORAAY CHART! (1680113 ; 
Balance in pericd Satum(R} 
NM yrs 4-2-9 days (43-57) 
18-5043" x1 20-5013" 
Rah (21-2) 


lil l 
18-5013" 18-5013" 


Cusp Sub Lord 

| Jupiter 

I Kethu 

a Rahu 

Iv Mercury 

V Jupiter 

Vi Moon 

Mil Rahu 

VIII Mercury 

IX Moon 

x Kethu 

XI Jupiter 

Xl Sun 
Planets Star Lord Sub Lord 
Sun Venus Saturn 


Moon Sun Rahu 


KRISHNAMURT! PADHOHAN any 


Mars Mercury Saturn 
Mercury Kethu Venus 
[Jupiter Saturn Venus 
Saturn(R) Venus Venus 
Venus Mercury Mars 

Rahu Venus Jupiter 
Kethu Jupiter Jupiter 


In this chart, the readers may note that the sub lord of the 
xth cusp is Kethu. 


Kethu is situated in the Vth bhavam in the constellation of 
Jupiter, a depositer of IXth bhavam. This position clearly and 
unambiguously indicated that the matter queried is a flat failure. 


To confirm the same, |! looked into the sublord of the xlth 
cusp . It was Jupiter, stationed in the IX (in Cancer, a moveable 
sign), in the constellation of Saturn in the X, but Retrograde. 
This added to my conviction that the matter is a complete failure, 
then itself. 


00 Itried, to console him by telling that the shuffling of cabinet 
would be postponed to 9" May. 


On this , he laughed, and shown me a telegram received by 
then, asking him to resign; and remarked that | am a failure in 
my prediction. 


| was not at all worried on his remark as above, on the 
contrary | was very happy inwardly to find that K.P. is so prefect 
in revealing the correct position of the event. 


tcame away telling him politely that | am not in the habit of 
giving out unpleasant and unhappy predictions 


For the information of the readers, | give below the Natal 
Chart of this V.t.P., duly worked out under K.P lines, wherein 
you will note that the above fall in status is well portrayed; the 
same is dicussed hereunder:- 


Date of birth: 9-6-1921 
‘Time: 11-38 a.m. IST 


228 RETROGRADE PLANT 


(Rectified at 1-30 p.m. on 6-5-7939 at Chennai, since the time 
was given by him as between 11 00 a.m and 3-00 p.m.) 


Piace (Naspur)Adilabad. 

49°-37 N_Lat 

78° -30' E.Long 

ST: Ars 4-29-25 

Ayanamsa: 22°- 39 (KSK} 

Balance in Saturn Period at birth yrs : 14yrs 9m 23days 


Mar (0-54) 
AI 16-2431" 
Maer (1915) 


vill Ket (1-55) | x 962491" 


pee Ven (11-56) 
15-24'31 Ne 10-24°31" Sun (25-12) 


BIRTH CHART 
Nirayana Bhava 


Chakram 
Jup (17-59) 


il ~ W152a'31" 


V IV vy qe 
age | 182431 Fortune 
162031 | 162631 | parass) | roo) 


Cusp sub Lord 


Sun 
Jupiter 
Venus 
Jupiter 
Mloon 
saturn 
Venus 


xsxstets =” 


ARISHNAMURT) PADHDHATI oe9 


VIll Jupiter 

IX ioon 

x Salum 

x) Venus 

Xl Jupiter 
Planets Star Lord Sub Lord 
oun Mars Rahu 
Moon Saturn Mercury 
Mars Mars Venus 
Mercury Rahu Mars 
Jupiter Venus Mars 
Saturn Venus Mercury 
Venus Ketu Mercury 
Rahu Mars Ketu 
Ketu Ketu Venus 


Present period of Ketu bukthi in the major period of Venus, 
is from 2-2-79 to2-4- 1980. 


Ketu is in its own star Aswini in the VIII bhavam, in the sub of 
Venus signifying fully the Villth house. Venus owns Ilrd and Xth 
cusps. So Ketu gets feeble signification of (Ilrd only as Xth is 
tenented by Sun and Mars. 


Ketu being a node, represents Mars alsowho is a full 
sionificator of Ath. 


Hence summing up, Ketu is full significator of VIllth and feeble 
signiticator of Xth and Illrd. 


Villth tells the end of the present political status and Ath 
denotes his continuity in political life. 


With the result, the ketu bukthi had ended his present status 
and its Xth house signification will continue him in political life 
with out any major portfolios. 


Ketu bukthi ends by April 1980 and the major period of Sun 
Starts on 2-4-1980 to run for 6 years. 


230 RETROGRADE PLANT 


sun is stationed in the Xth bhavam. No planets are found to 
have tenented Sun's stars Uthiram, Uthiradam and Krithigai. 
This gives this planets the full signification of Xth bhavam. 
(HouseO 


Xth house tells about 1} Position in Government. 2) Honours 
and stauts 3) Credit and standing, 4)The King 5)The head of 
State 6) The sphere of influence exerted by the individual. 


Further the above Sun in deposited in the constellation of 
Mars situated in the Ath bhavam in its own star mrigaseersham:; 
and added to that sun owns Lagna cusp, and Mars |Xth cusp. 
sun is in the sub of Rahu, stationed in Libra in the IInd bhavam 
deposited in the star of Mars signifying Xth. 


summing up, Sun signifies |i 1M, LX, and X. 


Fortuna is formed in Virgo 27° 22' in the star of Mars signifying 
Xth and represents Mercury in XIth being in Virgo. So Fortuna 
promises political success of recognition. 


The Longitudinal distance between Sun, the dasa and 
Fortuna is 122° which is a very luckiest kind of aspect (western), 
will bring maximum return with a minimum of effort in his political 
life, as Fortuna is imbibed with such matters, as explained 
above. 


All these combinations go a long way to say that this native, 
with the advent of Sun’s major period in its own bukthi and Anthra 
of Rahu, wil again emerge as a powertul politician and will be 
fortunate to held No.1 status in the A. P. politics, and continue to 
enjoy such status up to the end of Jupiter bukthi of Sun's major 
period. 


The above two Horary charts have thus proved of what is 
said by Jothish Visharad Ganapathi on page No:42. of A & A of 
March 73 issue. 


"K.P. is this a genuine attempt to rid science of Astrology of 
its many fallacies and adopt the correct line of approach." 


OM TAT SAT 


SIGNIFICANCE OF 
RETROGRADE PLANETS 


In Horary Astrology interpreted according to the principles 
outlined in Krishnamurti Padhdhati, a planet deposited in the 
constellation of retrograde planet does not denote favourable 
resulis, while a retrograde planet deposited in the constellation 
of a planet direct in course will deny favourable results till it 
changes its motion. The same rule does not hold good in respect 
of a radical chart (birth horoscope). Many prominent 
personalities rise to the zenith of their career and many others 
enjoy prosperity during the period of retrograde planets. 


As a devoted student of Krishnamurtiji's method and ever 
eager to verify the authenticity of certain doubtful and debatable 
propositions, | had an occasion to verily the above statement 
regarding retrograde Saturn. In my birth chart, Saturn is 
retrograde and , incidentally, its main dasa is operating at the 
moment. Although | did not experience any benefinical results 
during its dasa due to its signification according to my chart, 
yet | found it to offer its results instalments and with a delay 
and only partly and never in full. The narration below would reflect 
upon an important astrological deduction. 


Inthe second week of Novermber 1971, | received a cheque 
for a few thousands of rupees as refund on the Delhi Treasury 
from a Government office. Consequently, | deposited the cheque 
in my bank account and the bank sent the same to the treasury 
for collection. But when the cheque could not be cashed for 
about two weeks, | became apprehensive if something had gone 
wrong. Suddenly, it struck my mind that ! was running the main 
dasa of a retrograde planet, Saturn, a planet of delay, and that 
at that moment it was also retrograde in transit. Although it was 
clear to me that | cannot draw the money till it turned direct in 
motion, yet | made all possible efforts to realize the payment as 
expeditiously as possible, but in vain. The cheque was repeatedly 
returned to the bank for completion of certain ‘eft over’ formalities 


2de2 RETROGRADE PLANT 


and its payment could nat he drawn till the 4" February 1972 
when Saturn became direct in course 


As | was busy with certain guests that usually invade the 
residents of Delhi during the Republic Day celebrations, | could 
not contact my bankers directly till the 29m Janurary 1972. On 
the 29" January when | got in touch with them, | was told that 
the payment had not been received till then | felt completely 
frustrated, all possible endeavours and efforts on my part to 
realize the payment having proved fruitless. | remained away 
from Delhi from the 29" January 1972 and | could contact the 
bank again only on the 4" February 1972 On that day, the clerk 
in the cash branch of the bank dealing with the treasury receipts 
told me thal the payment had been received on the 24" January 
but somehow in the ledger the amount could not be credited to 
my account. On my persuasion, immediate efforts were made 
to trace the payment and it was discovered that the amount 
was wrongly credited to some other person's account. As such, 
a transfer entry was made and | could draw upon the sum only 
at 1-35 p.m. on 4-2-1972! 


It would appear that Saturn remained retrograde till 31-1- 
1972 and remained stationary thereafter on 36 degrees 13 
minutes position and it was only on 4-2-1972 that tt actually 
began to move direct in course and reached a position 36 
degrees 14 minutes. The fact remained that the payment was 
denied to me though it actually reached the bank on 24-1-1972. 
the reason for which is obvious. Retrograde Saturn did not allow 
it to happen till it took a direct course. 


This instance warns us that although a retrograde planet in 
the radical chart does not deny, whatever it portrays, in its dasa 
or bhukti or anthra period, it only contributes to frustrating 
attempts and delays whenever it is retrograde by transit. At the 
same time, it does not deny favourable results when it transits 
in direct motion. This is amply demonstrated here. 


Fellow scholars may like to throw light on this point based 
on their expenence, supporting their findings with the aid of clear 
and unambiguous data, the complete horoscope, transits, etc. 


RETROGRADE PLANET 
When My Daughter will arrive? 4.P.Exptains 


A lady friend of my wife living in my lane is a frequent visitor 
to my house. On 13-4-86 she came to my house and she and 
my Wife began their chatting for a long time in the kitchen room, 
When she was about to start for home she came to me and 
began "sir, my grand child has been ailjng with small-pox for 
the past 5 days. | have sent a word to my daughter who is living 
in Pothanur to come and see the ang child Now 3 days had 
gone. She has not turned outtilltoday | am eagerly waiting for 
her. You are telling Jothidam for all. Can't you tell me when my 
daughter will arrive?" | said, “by all means, please sit | will tell 
you. You please mention a number in between | and 249. She 
mentioed a number-104. She and my wife began their usual 
chatting about my néeighbotring family petty quarrels in the 
adjoining room. in the mean time | erected the chart for the 
number-104. The chart is as given below. 


Sun 29-23 
v ; “0-02 Verus 1946 Moon 12-31 | 198.43 
ry X 20.87 A 208 
149 | 
— | 
Vil 28-20 
13~4-86 at 9-35a.m. 
W40N 7TT-00E 
Ayanamsa:23-34KP., a,, 
ee 
a + 
IV 26408 
V 28-1 29-37 
Mars 1410 sam Kethu 6-50 It 25-02 


234 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Cuspal Sub Lord Planetary Star Lord Sub Lard 
Position Positions 

| Mare oun Mercury oalum 
2. Salam Moon Moon Rahu 
3 Moon Mars Venus Venus 
| Satum Mercury Jupiter Rahu 
5. Mars Jupiter Rahu Moon 
5 Saturn Yenus Venus Rlahu 
7. Venus Salum Saturn Jupiler 
8 Sal um Rahu Kethu Rahu 
i) Rahu Kethu Rehu Rahu 
10 Satum 

11 Venus 

{2 oalum 


Ruling Planets 


Day Lord - Sun 
Rasi Lord - Venus 
Star Lord - Moon 
Lagna Lord - Venus 
Lagna Star Lord - Moon 
Lagna Sub Lord - Venus 
Significators 

Sun 11-2-7-1-8 
Moon 12-9 

Mars 10-3-8-4-9 
Mercury 5-6-7-B-2-11 
Jupiter 8-9-4-5-6 
Venus 10-3-8 

Saturn 3-6-7 

Rahu 10-3-4-9-1 
Kethu 4-9-12-3-10-5-8 
Analysis 


First we should see whether one will come and meet the 
querent For that we should take the 4th cusp sub from the 
sign of the expected person. Ifthe sub signifies 3rd house from 
the sign of the expected person. and also tt should signify the 


KRISHNAMURT! PAGHDHAT| 235 


3,5.7 or 9 and 11. the querent wil} expect tne arrival of the 
expected person. 


Here 5th sign is taken, because if referrs to her daughter. 
5th sign is Dhanusu. The 4th from the Sth sign is in Meenam. It 
is Jupiter sign Mercury sign Mercury star, Saturn sub (29 2). 
saturn signifies 3 and 11th houses to the daughter as it is in its 
own star. The saturn is in the 3rd house and posited in the sub 
of Jupiter who is the significator of 5th house and also karaka 
of Puthra. So the daughter of the querent will come definitely. If 
the sub lord is retrograde or it is posited in the constellation of 
retrograde planet the matter will not materialize. It is correct to 
certain extent. Anyhow if the sub lord is retrograde or it is in the 
constellation of the retrograde planet we should see the 
signification of the sub lord and if it signifies the houses brilliantly 
for which it is needed the matter will materialize. But it will make 
delay only. 


Suppose the sub lord and its constellation are the same 
planet we should see the planet in which sub it is posited. If that 
sub is also retrograde or it is in the constellation of the planet 
which is retrograde, the matter will not at all materialize 


In this chart 8th sub which is 4th sub to the daughter is 
Saturn. It is retrograde and it is in its own star. Here both the 
sub and its constellation are same. Saturn is in Jupiter sub. 
Jupiter is not retrograde So there is no doubt that she will come, 
since the sub is Saturn it will make delay. Delay means it will 
take more time than the expected time limit. 


That too depends upon the matter and the course of the 
happening. Here the daughter is informed that the child is ailing 
with small-pox So she will come late because of Saturn. So 
one can infer that the delay may be some days but not months 
together. The Astrologer must have some common sense alsa 


Next we should see when she will come and meet her 
mother We take the houses 3.5,7.9 and 11. The house 3rd 
denotes meeting her daughter, 5th house denotes daughter, 
7th house which is 3rd to 5th denotes the daughter's moving, 


ENG RETROGRADE PLANT 


Sth house denotes the g!and child you know 5th fo Sth, 11th 
house denotes fullfilment of the querent. Then we consider the 
siynificators for the said houses. 


3rd house - Saturn, Venus, and Kethu 
5th house - Jupiter, Merucury 
7th house - Mercury, Sun, Saturn 


9th house - Mars, Rahu, Moon 
T1th house = - Mercury, Sun. 


So all the nine planets have come as significators. The KP. 
followers here | mean the beginners are confused to ascertain 
which planets for the transit depends on the nature of the query 
and the manner of the accomplishment. !n this query | explain 
how to approach the maiter and select the planets for transit. 


As seen above, all the nine planets have come as 
significators We should select the strongest of all. Here the 
daughter should move from her residence. The 3rd significator 
from the daughter's Lagna (that is 7th to 5th) will be considered 
first and foremost. We know /th house is 3rd to the daughter's 


Lagna, 


Merucury, Sun, and Saturn are the significators of 3rd house. 
Among the three which is the best should be judged. Here Sun 
signifies the 3rd house to the daughier since it is in the star of 
Mercury. But it is in the sub of Saturn which Is retrograde. So 
we need not consider the sun for transit. Next Saturn which is 
also retrograde and tt is in its own star. So we omit Saturn also. 
Then we take Mercury for assessment. Mercury is posited in 
3rd house to daughter's Lagna. There is no other planet except 
Mercury suitable for the Grd house, Here we can assume thal 
she will come in few days. So we take the Moon transit Moon 
must come to the star Mercury. At the time of Judgement Moon 
if in Taurus sign in Moon's star. The Moon will move and be in 2 
14 days Mithuna Rasi There is no «Mercury star in that sign 
There are Mirugasira, Thiruvathirai, Punarpusam stars. Their 
planets are Mars, Rahu, Jupiter. These planets are not the 
significators of 3rd house to the daughter (7th is 3rd to 5th). 
Though Mercury heocmes the owner of the sign Mithunam. It is 


KRISHNAMURTI PACHOHAT! fun 


Next follows Moon sign (Katagam). In that sign Mercury star 
Ayilyam is there. Now we have chosen the Moon sign Mercury 
star in Cancer. Next we should consider the other significators 
and the Ruling planets. In giving result there is difference 
between while a palnet comes as sign lord, and while a planet 
comes as a Star lord. Sign lord is weaker than star lord in giving 
result. Sign is an area comprising three stars. The sign lord my 
join with any of the three stars according to the matter So 
selecting the star is very important. In this context we have 
selected Mercury star in Moon sign. Moon has come in the 
Ruling planet as well as the 9th significator because it is posited 
in 9th significator because it is postited in 9th bhava to the 
querent. This position will be on 18-4-86 af 5.12 p.m Ayilyam 
star will begin at 5 12 p.m onwards and it will be on 19-4-86 
also. Here we should consider the Moon's sub, Lagna star, and 
its sub, and Ruling planets at the time of judgement. The 
moment when they conjoin the matter will materialize. 


On 18-4-86 at 5.12 p.m onwards Lagna will move in the 
Rasi Kanni and Thulam. Here we see the Ruling planets at the 
time of judgement and the time of fructifications. 


At the time of judgement. 


oun - Day lord 

Venus - Rasi lord 

Moon - Star lord 

Rahu - Moon's sub lord 
Venus - Lagna lord 
Moon - Lagna star lord 
Venus - Lagna sub lord 


Alt the time of fructification 


Venus - Day lord 
Moon - Rasi lord 
Mercury - Star lord 


Mercury - Moon's sub lord 


238 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Venus - Lagna lord 
Rahu - Lagna star lord 
Mercury - Lagna sub lord 


In the Kanni Rasi when lagna moves, Ruling planet will not 
agree. When the Lagna moves to Thulam the Ruling planet will 
agree Al the time of judgement Venus is inthe Rahu sub and it 
conjoins with Rahu. 


50 we conclude that when Lagna move in Venus sign and 
Rahu star it will materialize. So | boldly declared that the 
daughter of my wife's friend would come in the evening at 7.10 
p.m. on 18-4-86. She was reluctant to accept my prediction 
since she was expecting the arrival of her daughter earlier. She 
said that she would wait and see and went a way. 


On 18-4-86 at 8.00 p m. She came with her daughter and 
told me that my prediction was correct. At that time | thanked 
Jothida Mannan Jothida Marthand Prof.. K.S. Krishna Murthi for 
having given the clue to predict the matter with the help of Ruling 
planets. 


Good Luck 


- RETROGRADE SUB-LORD OF 
ASCENDANT AND LAST JOURNEY 


Having heard on 29th November, 1974, that one of the 
directors, an aged gentleman, of the Company in which | was 
employed, was admitted to a nursing home, | had an urge to 
know for myself what the planets had in store. All the same, 
having myself become an adherent of “Krishnamurti 
Padhdhathi" only since last year, | was in two minds whether | 
could venture a prediction with the poor knowledge and 
experience | had. However, opening a book, | noted No 79 at 
10.05 a.m. (IST) on 1st December, 1974, at Madras, in the 
absence of birth data. Given below is the chart : 


Pisces Aries Taurus Gamini 
Mesna 0 Mesha 2 Rishaba GO Mithuna 


Ketu 16-50 | oan 32 


XII 23-19 
M2338 | cal a40R 


IX 21-19 


Vi 20-19 
up te Madras: 13N4/80E17 | [22-11-20 


Mars Dasa 
Sun Bhukti 


Venus Anthra 
VIL 22-13-20 balance five days. 1 20-19 


VY 23-36. 


Van.21-17 


Sun 15-41 hy 93-19 Il 21-19 
Mar 4-56 


240 Searsio 2410 = Libra 180 
VASCTHK ~hularn 


240 RETROGRADE PLANT 


stellar Position of planets 


Planet Star Lord Sub Lord Sub-Sub Lord 
Sun saturn Jupiter saturn 

Moon Mars Sun Venus 

Mars Jupiter Moon Jupiter 
Mercury Saturn Saturn Rahu 

Jupiter (R) Rahu Venus Moon 

Venus Mercury Venus Mercury 
satum Jupiter Mercury Sun 

Rahu Mercury Mercury Mercury 

Kethu Moon saturn Sun 


| took the director as my employer and considered the 10th 
house (Aries-Mesha} from the horary lagna as his ascendant 
for all calculations. 


Is the chart radical’ 


lf the Moon's disposition indicates the matter quesited, the 
chart can be taken to be radical to give an accurate picture, If 
properly judged and judiciously interpreted. The Moon is posited 
inthe rnaraka stana and is in the same sign as Saturn, badhaka 
stanadipathi. Moon is stationed in the constellation of Mars in 
the 7th house (another rnaraka stana) as lord of 1 and 8 Is 
being made and 8th house is ayush stana as well as danger) in 
the sub of Sun tn 8. As such, the Moon clearly indicates the 
nature of the query and so the chart can be expected to reveal 
the true state of affairs and prognosis. 


First of all, find out whether short, medium or long life ts 
promosed. A simple method is to ascertain the disposition of 
the sub-lord of the ascendant, who is the deciding factor. Ifthe 
sub-lord is the significator of badhaka or rnaraka stanas or of 
the houses 6, 8 or 12 life is short from the date on which the 
subject matter is examined from the horary chart. If the sub- 
lord is a significator of houses 1, 5, 9 or 10, he promises long 
life A caution is necessary here As 9th house will be the 
badhaka stana for sthira lagnas, the sub-lord of lagna signifying 


KRISHNAMURT|PADHDHATI 241 
ninth house will only portend short life. lf the sub-lord is a 
Significator of both benefic and malefic houses, life is medium. 


Again, the eighth and third houses are houses of longevity. If 
they are weak by the occupation of the significators of rnaraka 
or badhaka stanas, and if their lord itself is a significator of death 
or these houses are aspected by these significators, life is short. 


For chara lagnas, the 11 th house is badhaka stana; for sthira 
lagnas, the 9th and for ubhaya lagnas, the 7th are badhaka 
stanas. Houses 2 and / are rnaraka stanas for all lagnas and 
the 12th houese is moksha stana. 


Now, let us first examine the sub-lord of the ascendant. He 
is Saturn, ayush karaka and badhaka stanadhipathi, in 
retrograde motion. He is posited in the 3rd house, house of 
longevity. He has a dual role to play, as ayush karaka and as 
badhaka stanadipati. When dealting with "Karako bhava nasaya" 
it is said that if the karaka planet is in the kara bhava, if he is in 
the constellation of a benefic, he will give beneficial results; but 
if he is in the constellation of a malefic, he will do only evil. This 
Saturn being badhaka stanadhipathi, is in the constellation of 
Jupiter, lord of 9 and 12 in 10. As far as longevily is concerned, 
Sth house shows long journey, 10th house shows retirement 
from this world and 12the house is vraya to lagna bhava. Thus 
the constellation position of Saturn is evil. Saturn is in the sub 
of Mercury who is in the constellation of badhaka standhipathi 
and Mercury is also lord of six. This disposition of Saturn shows 
imminent fatality. 


The sign and constellation lords on the cusp of the ascendant 
are Mars and Venus. Sign lord Mars is in the 7th house (rnaraka 
stana) in the constellation of Jupiter, lord of 9 and 12 in 10. 
Venus is posiied inthe 8th house in the constellation of Mercury, 
lord of 3 and 6 in 8. The position of Mars and Venus is also not 
favourable. Even if they signify beneficial houses, as the sub- 
lord of the ascendant is evil, he will prevail over Mars and Venus, 
as the sub-lord is the strongest force. Thus, short journey, 
illness, danger, hospitalisation, long journey, rnaraka. retirement 


242 RETROGRADE PLANT 


from this world and moksha are ail indicated Can there be a 
better picture indicating the immient fatality? However, in the 
face of all these as the sub-lord of the ascendant, Saturn, was 
retrograde, | was compelled to believe that the untoward event 
might not happen till such time as Saturn resumed direct motion. 
but it proved otherwise 


Significators 
Apart from the positional strength of the significators and 


their sta) lords, the signifactors are stronger to cause death in 
the following order 


1. The planets in the constellation of the occupants of 
badhaka stana are the strongest evils, next the occupants, then 
the planets in the constellation of badhaka stanadhipathi and 
then its lord are evil Planets conjoined with them or aspected 
by them acquire unfavourable effects. 


2. Next in order are the planets in the constellation of the 
occupants of rnaraka stanas, the occupants, planets in the 
constellation of the lords of rnaraka stanas, and lastly the lords 
of rnaraka stanas. 


In addition to the above, a Node is also included if it occupies 
any of the signs of the significators. The planets in the 
constellation of the Node are also to be considered. 


When a majority of the planets is in the constellation of the 
same star, even a planet in the constellation of markaa 
Standhipathi, if on the sub of other significators of death, is 
definitely eveil. 


The eighth house is the house of longevity. Planets in the 
constellation of evil planets in 8, except Saturn, occupants of 
the 8th, planets in the constellation of lord of 8th. the lord of 8th 
and planets in any manner connected with them threaten danger 
to life, show the cause of death and the place of death. 


lf the chart shows long life, the evil aspect formed to the 8th 
house or the planets connected with it by progression or transit, 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 243 


when the native is in youth, will not bring about death. It may be 
ill-health setting in temporarily. 


Ttth House: Unoccupied . Sun and Mercury are 
in the constellation of Saturn, 
badhaka stanadipathi. 

2nd house Occupied by Moon; Kethu is in the 


constellation; no planet in the 
constellation of 
Venus, lord of 2 and 7 


7th house Occupied by Mars; the Mcon is in 
his constellation. Rahu is in 
scorpio and Kethu is in Taurus. So, 
include them; Jupiter is in the 
constellation of Rahu and there is 
no planet Kethu's star. 


The significators are : Mercury, Sun, Saturn, Kethu, Moon, 
Venus; Mars, Rahu, Kethu and Jupiter. 


Ifthe sub-lord of the significators is a significator of the maiter 
under consideration by constellation and the sub-sub lord is 
stationed in the relevant house, those planets will be fruitful. In 
this case, the subs of the significators are evil and thé sub- 
subs are not any better. 


Ruling planets 


Lord of the day sunday sun 

Lord of the Moon sign (Gemini) Mercury 

Long of Moon's constellation Mrigasira Mars 
Lord of lagna (Capricorn) Saturn 

Lord of lagna constellation U. Shada Sun 


As sun and Mercury are conjoined with Rahu, Rahu will 
appropriate the powers of these two planets. Kethu in Taurus 
Will act as the agent of Mars. Moon being in the same sign as 
Saturn, badhaka stanadhipathi, will acquire more maleficience 
and will also become the ruling planet. 


244 RETROGRADE PLANT 


Death occurred at 10.00 p.m. on Sunday, the 8th December, 
1974, when, according to the horary chart, Kuja dasa, Chandra 
bhukti, Chandra Anthra, Rahu Sookshma was in progress. The 
dasanatha, Mars, is lagnadhipathi. Why should he kilt? Apart 
from his being lord of lagna, he is also lord of 8 and is placed in 
the 7th, rnaraka stana. Occupation is stronger than lordship. 
Therefore Mars is stronger as a rnaraka. He is in the 
constellation of Jupiter, lord of 12 in 10 As 10th house is 
retirement from this world and 12th house is negation to the 1* 
house, they are not auspicious when considering longevity. Mars 
is in the sub of Moon, and Moon has become a potent evil. That 
is why Mars dasa ilself saw the end of life. A planet on the sub 
of lagnadhipathi, it is stated, will not cause death normally. But 
such a configuration is not present. The bhukthi and 
anthranatha, the Moon, 1s evil. The Sookshma lord Rahu, 
acquires malficience by Sun being in conjunction and Mercury 
being conjoined with him. The sookshma lord can cause death, 
if he is connected to the relevant house by occupation or 
lordship. Rahu does net own any sign, but he is inthe 8th house. 
He gives the resulis of the planets which are conjoined with 
him. He is conjoined with Sun and Mercury whe are the strongest 
significators for death. The result is clear. 


The lagna rising af the time of death was in the constellation 
of Mercury in Cancer, the date was the 8th and the week-day 
Sunday. Even though, among the ruling planets, Saturn was 
retrograde, and Mercury was in the constellation and sub of 
retrograde Saturn, their influence has been brought out. 
Retrogradation seems to be of little consequence, if the planet 
concerned is a strong significator, as has been pointed out 
some months back in "Astrology & Athrishta". 


Transit on 8-12-74 


Inthe star of Inthe sub of 
Dasa lord Mars Saturn Satum 
Bhukthi & anthra 
lord Moon Moon Venus 


Sookshma lord 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 245 


Rahu Saturn Jupiter 
Sun Mercury Moon 
Mercury Saturn Jupiter 
Jupiter Rahu Kethu 
Venus Mercury Venus 
Saturn Jupiter Mercury 
Kethu Moon Saturn 


The transit also supports the occurrence. 


Good Luck ! 


