ASTROLOGY IN FORECASTING 
WEATHER AND EARTHQUAKES 


Dr. B.V. Raman 


3. 


CONTENTS 


Foreword 
Preface 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 


Heavy Rainfall and Sunspot Maxima 
Effect of Slow Moving Planets 

The Sun's Influence 

When Mercury Conjuncts Sun 

Mars and Dry Weather 

How the Winds arc Influenced 
Planetary Clues to Cyclones 
Prediction of Rain 

Rainbows in Different Seasons 
Weather Changes and Vagaries 


Astrology in Earthquakes Prediction 


Role of Solar Spots 
Eleven-Year Cycle Theory 
Parasara on Earthquakes 
Site of Earthquake 
Ground Glows 

Planets in Trikonas 
Saturn-Mars in Kendras 
Eclipse Degree and .Mars 
New Moon and Mutual Kendras 
Jupiter-Satium Opposition 
Jupiter-Satum Conjunction 
Historic Fact 


Appendix 


FOREWORD 


lhe only claim of this book is to present an 
ensemble of ancient astrological data concerning the meth- 
ods of forecasting certain natural disasters and the need on 
the part of the seismologists and meteorologists to shed 
their prejudices and embark on an investigation of the in- 
digenous methods being used for thousands of years with 
much success. 

We arc beginning to realise the futility of giving 
undue importance to so called methods of science. Many 
dogmas imposed by western science should be shaken off 
especially by the Indian scientists. The book has been 
written for those who arc bold enough to openly declare 
the relevance of ancient Indian methods of earthquake and 
weather forecasting to merit the serious attention of today's 
men of thinking. 

I must record my appreciation of the interest shown 
and the immense labour put forth by my daughter Gayatri 
Devi Vasudev not only in collecting the relevant editorials 
written by me in the past issues of The Astrological Maga- 
zine but also for re-ediling and presenting them in a book 
form. In fact the very idea of writing this book came from her. 


Bangalore B.V. RAMAN 
26-7-1992 


PREFACE 


4£ utting together my father Dr. B. V. Raman's pioneering 
work in forecasting earthquakes through astrology has been an 
eye opening experience. Going through the editorials of The 
Astrological Magazine, one came across many brilliant predic- 
tions proved to veracity with amazing but tragic precision. These 
predictions stand in strong contrast to the dismal forecasts of 
seismologists. 

The Seismology Department maintained at a considerable 
cost by the government has done precious Utile to justify its exis- 
tence. On the other hand, the government's supine ignorance to 
the tremendous potential of astrology is indigestible, especially 
since these fore-warnings can save countless lives and suffering. 

The astrological methods are, by and large, fairly reliable 
and accurate. However, much work yet remains to be done in 
locating more precisely the site of the occurrence of an earth- 
quake. But where individual effort and resources are the only 
means as has been the case with my father, this stupendous task 
remains difficult. 

Mr. S. K. Kelkar, a well-known astrologer of Pune, has 
been working on this aspect of earthquakes and many of his fore- 
casts have been fulfilled. 

I appeal to all right thinking persons, whether in positions 
of authority in the government or in scientific bodies, to be 
broad-minded enough to set aside their prejudices (which arc but 
a hangover of the colonial days when a massive inferiority com- 
plex was insiduously injected into the Indian psyche) to study the 
astrological clues Dr. Raman has collected as a result of decades 
of study of the science of astrology and to integrate these clues 
into their own methods to pinpoint earthquake occurrences. 

I am confident that my father's dedicated work in astro- 
seismology which he has pursued with a missionary zeal will 


xii Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


come to fruition. That, some day some thinkers capable of fecling 
for humanity will apply it with success, assuaging thereby the 
suffering an earthquake invariably leaves behind in its trail. 

Simple ground rules have been listed in this book. These 
have been culled from different editorials on earthquakes written 
by my father in the course of the last five decades. Anyone with 
a little knowledge of astrology and general science can use these 
tules to forecast earthquakes with considerable success. This in 
itself is a great achievement when the score of the official seis- 
mologist is just 01 per cent or even less. 

Astrology also provides much information on weather fore- 
casting, especially of rainfall. Heavy, scanty and delayed rains 
can all be indicated fairly accurately. Long-range forecasting of 
weather has also been elaborately dealt with in classical works 
which has also been highlighted in this book. Short-term forecasts 
of a few hours, one day and even a week can be made accurately. 
The only person I have come across in India, with a bent of mind 
for research in the field of forecasting weather on the basis of 
astrology, as developed by ancient seers and in the light of a 
modern approach to the subject, is Mr. K. N. Rao, LA.AS. 
(Retd.). In fact several of his forecasts on weather based on astro- 
logy have been fulfilled, while those of the meteorologists have 
flopped. 

The information and guidelines astrology provides in 
weather forecasting can be of great consequence in planning all 
kinds of activity. I hope those genuinely interested in unlocking 
the secrets of Nature will seriously study the basic astrological 
information vis-a-vis earthquakes and weather provided in these 
pages and employ it for the benefit of mankind for which the 
science of astrology was founded by the great rishis of India. 


Bangalore Gayatri Devi Vasudev 
18-6- 1992 


Section 1 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 


Heavy Rainfall and Sunspot Maxima 


Some years ago, on a Friday, the weather experts were 
expecting thunder storms over the north-western region of 
India. But hell broke loose in Delhi in the shape of a tor- 
nado — hailstones, the size of golf balls accompanied by 
violent rain and strong currents of wind lifting people and 
scooters into the air, dragging buses across the road and 
uprooting everything in sight, from trees to telegraph posts, 
resulted in hundreds of men and women ending up in the 
emergency wards of Delhi's major hospitals. The weather- 
men did not predict this. 

Earlier in 1977, life in large parts of coastal Andhra 
Pradesh came to a standstill on 11 November. A cyclone of 
tremendous intensity hit the coast, killing over 20,000 
people and destroying property, crops and livestock worth 
an estimated three billion rupees. The Meteorological 
Department had failed again. 

The Meteorology Institute had previously forecast the 
possibility of rain over Java at the time of the eclipse of 11 
June, 1983. But the skies were clear and 11 June passed 
off without a drop of rain. 

There is a certain statutory obligation resting squarely 
on the scientific community to make correct forecasts. 
Ironically, the Meteorological Department on which crores 
of rupees are being lavished to maintain an army of offi- 
cials simply issues bulletins not worth the paper on which 
they are written. 


4 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


Research studies conducted in the West indicate that 
periods of very heavy rainfall also coincide with sunspot 
maxima. Floodings of the Nile in Egypt also follow the 
solar cycle, being greatest at sunspot maxima. All things 
considered it is reasonable to conclude that at such times 
(viz., sunspot maxima) there is higher rainfall over the 
earth and there are greater number of storms in the tropical 
regions. Moreover, the general circulation of the atmos- 
phere is more violent which makes the temperature over 
the globe slighuy lower than the normal average. Meteoro- 
logical changes are also related to geomagnetic storms 
which, in turn, depend on changes taking place in the Sun. 
In any case, there is enough evidence to establish that there 
is a correlation between solar and terrestrial meteorological 
phenomena. 

The cause of the sunspot cycle, which is still a mys- 
tery, appears to synchronise with the period of Jupiter's 
orbit around the Sun. Just as the Sun and the Moon raise 
tides in the oceans and the atmosphere of the earth and 
even in the solid earth itself, so does the gravity of the 
planets raise tides on the surface of the Sun. 

2,000 years ago, the great Varahamihira dealt with 
the question of sunspots and their effects on the earth, 
fairly exhaustively at a time when the western countries 
perhaps did not know whether the Sun rose in the east or 
the west In fact, he also said that the appearance of these 
spots would bring thunderbolts, earthquakes and such un- 
usual phenomena boding calamity. 

It has been noticed even by western scientists that 
every 11 years or so there are great bursts of solar activity. 
During the maximum periods there is an acceleration of the 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 5 


"earth's heartbeats" causing as we shalisee in Section 2 a 
larger number of earthquakes, a phenomenon which as yet 
no scientist has been able to explain fully but which is an 
indisputable fact. It has also been found that sunspots 
cause the eruption of violent winds releasing charged cor- 
puscles which cause terrestrial magnetic storms. 

It is no more a question of superstition or doubtful 
assumption that there exists a connection between solar 
activity and the climate and weather on earth. Even as 
early as 1880, the French astronomer Camille Flammarian 
wrote in Popular Astronomy that "in our French climates 
cold rainy years and floods coincide with calm periods of 
the Sun when there are no eruptions and spots whereas arid 
and sultry years coincide with periods of the most intense 
solar activity." 

It looks as though what Varahamihira said years ago 
is echoed when the Russian scientist A. V. Dyakov obser- 
ves "the number of the spots, their size, shape and location 
on the Sun disc have to be carefully noted" for weather 
forecasting; In fact Varahamihira says that if there should 
appear in the Sun's disc spots in the form of a stick it 
portends the death of the sovereign; if it appears like a 
headless body there will be outbreak of diseases; if the 
form is that of the Keelaka (or wedge) there will be 
famine. 


etateyg: oferta ara de 


Again Dyakov says that should the spots assume 
jagged outlines and approach the centre of the solar disc 


6 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


or cross the equator, we may well expect meteorological 
cataclysms on the earth. 

Let us make it clear that weather can be forecast with 
considerable accuracy only on the basis of observing pro- 
cesses taking place on the Sun, which in their turn, are 
correlated to certain planetary juxtapositions. 

Looking at the planetary positions on cyclonic days 
we come across another interesting correspondence which 
when used in conjunction with sunspot maxima and con- 
ventional weather forecasting techniques can be of tremen- 
dous value in predicting future cyclones. 

A simple forecast of the weather is very general in 
scope. It is a simple fact that you cannot forecast a flood in 
the middle of a desert or a cold wave in the tropics because 
things like that do not happen within a lifetime but by all 
means one cannot rule out such a possibility. The forecaster 
must be familiar with climatology in all of its phases as 
well as the geography of the land. This is very important 


Effect of Slow Moving Planets 


Research has shown that when the planet Jupiter is in 
perihelion there is a great drought and likewise when in 
aphelion there is more dampness and cold weather than 
usual. Changes in the weather are associated with the Sun, 
the Moon and the planets under certain conditions of posi- 
tions, either when they act alone or in combination. 

Strong positions or aspects of planets leave strong 
impressions on the weather progressively all over the 
world. The slower moving planets (especially Jupiter and 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 7 


Saturn) exert a telling influence, because of their slow 
speed and their great masses for a longer period of time. 


The Sun's Influence 


The Sun's contact with the planets has its own effects 
on weather conditions on earth. 

With Mercury, the weather is given to windy spells 
along coastal areas and increases the depth of high and low 
pressure systems. 

With Venus, the weather gives rise to increase in rain 
or snow. 

With Mars, the weather becomes wanner and accord- 
ing to the season. 

With Jupiter, the weather becomes dry and sometimes 
as the season changes it will bring drought. 

With Saturn, the pressure is stagnant over long 
periods and colder than normal for the season. 

With Rahu, the weather is severe for the season and 
there are local storms during any month as well as the 
season. 

With Ketu, the weather is very changeable, with 
many changes within a short space of time. 

When Mercury and Venus pass the Sun, usually wet 
and windy weather occurs. The position of the Sun at times 
of new Moon and season-changes will give the observer a 
clue as to the type of weather likely during a specified 
period of time. The position of the Sun in the Nadir in any 
chart controls the weather over the area for a certain longi- 
tude and latitude. 


8 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 
When Mercury Conjuncts Sun 


Mercury-conjunct-Sun is the most important aspect 
to be taken into account when forecasting weather because 
Mercury itself is a rapid-moving planet and the positions of 
the conjunctions are very important. 

It is generally found that when Mercury and the Sun 
are in conjunction during the winter a blizzard or a cold 
wave Occurs. 

When Mercury and the Sun are in superior conjunc- 
tion followed by Mercury's conjunction with or opposition 
to Mars, and Rahu conjuncts Sun, a fast moving cold wave 
may be brought about. Temperatures may fall rapidly. 

Mercury and Saturn in mutual aspect may keep the 
area of rising temperatures limited. An aspect of Venus can 
bring moist warm air and a promise of moderate to heavy 
rain or even storms or tornadoes. 

Important methods have been given by ancient writers 
for forecasting flood. 

They are: 


(a) times of pregnancy of clouds; 

(b) entry of the Sun into the constellation of Aridra; 

(c) the Sun's entry into Capricorn; 

(d) Rohini, Swati and Ashadha Yogas; and 

(ec) mutual dispositions of planets and the transit of 
planets in different Nadis such as Vatanadi, 
Amritanadi, Sooryanadi, Jalanadi, etc. 


Using these methods the Hindu astrologers could 
foretell years of scarcity and plenty, pestilence, earthquakes, 
floods, inundations etc. 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 9 


Mars and Dry Weather 


Coming to the planet Mars, it raises the temperature, 
causing a dryness in the weather, especially when in Aries. 
If there is persistent drought and scarcity of water the cul- 
prit is again Mars. Mars also causes pestilent and blasting 
winds accompanied by droughts and lightning emitted from 
the sky. At sea, there is likelihood of ships wrecked by the 
turbulence of winds and strokes of lightning. Mars in con- 
junction with Jupiter exerts a disturbing effect on the 
weather, and storms of rain and thunder occur during the 
rainy season. Thunder, lightning and inundations are the 
outcome of Saturn-Mars influences. 


How the Winds are Influenced 


Mercury generates acute, sharp and whipping winds; 
Venus generates sunny weather consistent with the season; 
Mars gives rise to energetic watery winds and abnormally 
hot summers, and Saturn's action is frequently related to 
chronic cloudy skies and abnormal rainfall. 

Lunatics, hysterical or nervous people, neurotics and 
epileptics are very much under the beams of the Moon and 
it is a well-known fact that institutions housing such indi- 
viduals have to be on guard during the Moon's changing 
phases and especially during the full Moon, A few years 
ago the Chief of the New York Fire Department prepared a 
statistical study of the incidence of fire break-outs. He 
found. confirming astrological methods, that by far the 


10 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


greatest numbcr of such fires were started at the time of 
the full Moon. 


Planetary Clues to Cyclones 


The fury of nature becomes abundantly evident in the 
grim devastation caused annually by floods in India. The 
South-West Monsoon period, though usually welcome, 
causes so much havoc that lakhs of people are rendered 
homeless and crorcs of rupees worth of property destroyed. 
It is estimated that the loss of property in the State of 
Kamataka alone amounts to about rupees six crorcs. 
Damage to crops and property is indeed considerable in the 
coastal states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. In the South, thc 
Cauvery has always been benevolent, and it must be beyond 
comprehension to the high level Committee on floods, why 
the Cauvery was so wrathful in 1961, that it belied the fond 
hope of the Committee expressed many years ago: "there was 
no flood problem on this river." The ancient Chola rulers 
were certainly more realistic in the interests of the people, 
when they devised the Grand Anicut, a flood moderator, 
about a thousand years ago. 

The immensity and horror of the tragedy of floods in 
Poona in 1961 were equally shocking. Heavy rains 
breached the Panshet and the Khadakvasla dams and the 
entire city was immersed in water. The devastation caused 
was perhaps far worse than the official estimate. 

In the 1961 Annual of The Astrological Magazine, I 
wrote nearly nine months in advance: "The rainfall will be 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 11 


heavy and the land will be simply inundated with water. 
During the rainy season, there will be excessive rainfall 
accompanied by high winds and hailstorms, and severe 
gales cause loss of life and property. It is also said that 
most of the rain will fall in the seas and mountains. The 
ratio of wind to rain will be three to four units respec- 
tively. The crops will be good but just before the time of 
harvest, there will be much destruction by pests. Most of 
the rivers in India will be in spate but the flooding of the 
waters of Ganga, Cauvery and Godavari will cause Ict of 
havoc affecting the safety of large masses of people and 
cattle." 


I was able to anticipate on the basis of the ancient 
science of Astrology, what Meteorology and its experts 
could not. 

It is a matter of common occurrence that village 
astrologers arc right in a surprisingly high percentage of 
their weather predictions. Their rules are simple and dis- 
pense away with costly apparatus and laboratories. Obser- 
vation coupled with experience enabled the great sages of 
India to delve deep into the subject of astro-meteorology 
which was taken by them as a branch of Astrology because 
the heavenly bodies, the aspects, the conjunctions etc., are 
all common to both. Every member of the solar system 
exerts an important influence by gravitation upon every 
other and the Sun in particular produces diurnal, annual 
and other variations in the inclination and declination of 
the magnetic needle and effects may possibly be produced 
upon the very mobile atmosphere of the earth too. 


In Brihat Samhita, Varahamihira devotes eight chap- 
ters to the science of forecasting rain. His thesis is that as 


12 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


"food is the elixir of life and food depends upon rain, it is 
important to discover the laws of rain carefully". Mihira is 
so confident that he asscrts that “the prediction of an 
astrologer who pays exclusive attention both day and night, 
to the indications of rain afforded by the conception of 
clouds, will come true like the words of a sage." 

Modem meteorologists would do well to ponder over 
Varahamihira’s challenge: "What science can possibly 
excel Astrology, which determines the exact time of rain 
and by a thorough study of which one gets the power of 
predicting the past, present and the future even in this Kali 
Yuga which destroys all good things?" 

To determine the amount of rain one may expect 
during the rainy season, onc has to study the conditions of 
the atmosphere six months earlier. Long-range forecast 
was a Speciality with our ancient astro-meteorologists. 
According to Garga and other sages, the clouds become 
pregnant from the day the Moon reaches the constellation 
of Poorvashadha in the bright half of the lunar month 
Margasira (about 3rd November week each year). 

The ancient theory that the Moon exercises regulatory 
control over weather variations has now become an accep- 
ted fact of science, thanks to the research of some Austra- 
lian scientists. While the Moon's varying distance from the 
Sun, i.e., lunar day or tithi is a potent factor in weather 
changes, there is overwhelming evidence that the major 
planets have a powerful influence over atmospheric eventu- 
alities. 


Research has revealed that about twice as many tropi- 


cal storms have whirled to hurricane intensity on the three 
days centered at new Moon and full Moon. Meteorologists 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 13 


in the U.S.A. have found what they call an incidence of 
correlation between years rich in rainfall and Jupiter's 
movements. 

A cyclone of tremendous intensity hit the Andhra 
Pradesh coast on 19 November, 1977 killing over 20,000 
people and destroying property, crops and livestock worth 
an estimated three billion rupees. It was not, however 
totally unexpected. Two days earlier a severe cyclone had 
hit the neighbouring state of Tamil Nadu and most knew 
that the storm was heading towards Andhra Pradesh. But 
two days was not just enough time to prepare to receive 
the impact of the century's most devastating cyclone. The 
Meteorological Department had failed again and in spite of 
the statement of the Government of Andhra Pradesh that 
"... the Meteorological Department had given storm warn- 
ing and precautions had been taken" the people knew who 
were to be blamed. The statement was a cruel joke and an 
insult to the suffering people of the State. 

Very few newspapers had the courage to point out the 
inadequate and unscientific attitude of the Meteorological 
Department of India. Some hoped that with the completion 
of project Monex and the installation of some more scan- 
ners, they would be able to study weather patterns better. It 
is indeed a sad commentary on the apathy of the general 
public that crorcs of rupees have been frittered away by the 
Meteorological Department with no questions asked and no 
doubts raised. An example in point is the almost blind 
installation of scanners on the Andhra Pradesh coast. The 
department prides itself on the fact that the scanners can 
follow a cyclonic path upto 400 kms. But with cyclonic 
speeds being in excess of 100 kms. per hour this would 


14 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


give a four-hour warning — hardly time enough to prepare 
to face a cyclone. 

The failure of meteorologists is mainly due to a lack 
of sufficient scientific opcn-mindedness which prevents 
them from considering extra-terrestrial happenings as 
responsible for weather changes on the earth. 

Meteorological changes are also related to geo-mag- 
netic storms which, im turn, depend on events taking place 
in the Sun. It is worth noting that in 1957, a year of excep- 
tional solar conditions, the United States had an extremely 
large number of cyclones. 

Disturbances on the Sun affect different parts of the 
earth in different ways by producing changes of tempera- 
ture or pressure, humidity, rainfall and even storms. 

The solar wind is a stream of electrically charged 
panicles which blows along the lines of force of the Sun's 
magnetic field. This is funnelled into the polar regions by 
the carih’s magnetic field. Once they get into the earth's 
upper atmosphere small panicles such as these act as 
"seeds" on which crystals of ice arc produced. There may 
be other ways in which solar activity and the solar wind 
affect the weather. Studies of variations in the solar wind 
as measured from the Pioneer Spacecraft provide another 
clue, The solar wind is more ‘gusty’ around the time of 
maximum solar activity. There is statistical proof that when 
the Sun is more active, producing flares and spots, the so- 
lar wind contains more high-speed streams. And these 
high-speed streams arc very likely to affect the weather on 
the earth. 

Another piece of direct evidence linking sunspots and 
the weather comes from records of the occurrences of 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 15 


storms and lightning in the United Kingdom. Dr. M. F. 
Stringfellow of the U.K. Electricity Council Research 
Center has published graphs (Fig. 1) which indicate that 
the annual lightning incidence (which is a measure of the 
number of lightning flashes occurring in a given area each 
year) closely follows the mean sunspot index. 


Annual 
lightning incidence index 


Annual 
mean sunspot number 
8 


0 

1930 1940 1950 1960 1970 
Fig. 1. Top: Annual lightning Index. (as described previ- 

ously) 


Bottom: Yearly mean sunspot number. 
(Dr. M. F. Stringfellow, Nature) 


ad 


16 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


Just as the Sun and the Moon raise tides in the 
oceans, the atmosphere of the earth and even in the solid 
earth, so does the gravity of the planets raise tides on the 
surface of the Sun. And the height of the total tide depends 
on the relative alignments of the planets. 

The earth's magnetic field seems to be linked with the 
weather. Studies conducted by the U.S. Weather Bureau 
show a steady increase in magnetic intensity in England, 
Sweden and Egypt as well as a steady decrease in tempera- 
ture. At the same time in Mexico, Canada and the U.S.A. 
the magnetic intensity is decreasing and the climate is 
getting warmer. Sudden changes in magnetic intensity are 
followed by abrupt changes in weatheT. And again solar 
activity has a lot to do with the earth's magnetic intensity. 

A study of some of the most devastating cyclones on 
the Andhra Pradesh coast (see Table I below) shows they 
follow sunspot maxima. 


Table I 


Year of Sunspot Zurich sunspot 
Cyclone number 


April 1752 1750 83 
1879 1787 and 1788 132 in 1787 
1800 1802 and 1804 


1832 

1839 

1879 

1927 

1936 

1949 

1969 1967 and 1968 190 in 1967 
185 in 1968 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 17 


The planetary positions on cyclonic days reveal 
another interesting correlation. This correlation when used 
in conjunction with sunspot maxima and conventional 
weather forecasting techniques can be of tremendous value 
in predicting future cyclones. 

For example on the day of the 1927 cyclone there 
were loose conjunctions between Jupiter and Uranus and 
between Saturn and Ketu. In 1936 we find a Jupiter-Rahu 
conjunction In 1949 there was a Satum-Ketu conjunction 
in Virgo, the ruling sign of India. 1969 saw a Satum-Jupi- 
ter opposition and a Rahu-Uranus conjunction, the latter 
combination aspecting the 12th from Virgo. The 1977 
cyclone synchronised with a Jupiter-Rahu square and Sat- 
urn in the 12th (loss, death, etc.) from India's ruling sign. 

It seems that cyclones on the Andhra Pradesh coast 
are likely to occur close to periods of sunspot maxima 
when the planets Jupiter, Saturn, Rahu (Ketu) and Uranus 
form even loose aspects of Kendra (square) and Samagama 
(conjunction) between themselves. These indications are 
strengthened whenever either Virgo or the 12th from it are 
afflicted. 

When a suspected periodicity crops up in observa- 
tions but cannot be proved, the obvious thing is to find a 
physical reason why such a period should exist. All things 
point to the influence of the Sun on the earth and the influ- 
ence of relative planetary alignments on the Sun. 

Kepler, the great astronomer, to whose laws, even 
Newton was indebted for many of his discoveries, struck 
the correct note when he asserted that "a most unfailing 
experience of the excitement of sub-lunary natures, by the 
conjunction and aspects of the planets, has instructed and 


18 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


compelled my unwilling belief." As Dr. Pearce says: "If 
the meteorologists of the present day will but follow lead 
of Kepler in meteorology, as Newton did in astronomy, 
they wili constitute meteorology as a predictive science." It 
is the planetary Yogas — geometrical positions — in res- 
pect of themselves, the signs and the constellations that 
make the weather. The late John O'Neill, Science Editor of 
The New York Herald Tribune stated: "The hypothesis 
given by the astrologers that forces are transmitted to the 
earth without attenuation with increasing distance, and do 
not vary with respect to the difference in masses of the 
Sun, Moon and planets on which they originate, was totally 
inconsistent with the old style Newtonian mechanics; but 
today is in complete accord with the much more recent 
Einstein photo-electric theory which demonstrates that the 
effect on a photon does not diminish with distance, and 
which has been universally adopted by scientists to sup- 
plant the Newtonian mechanics in that field," 

Further, "The hypothesis, put forward by the astro- 
logers, that different effects will be produced by different 
configurations of the heavenly bodes, is entirely consistent 
with the modern developments in the field of chemistry, in 
which the properties of substances are stated in terms of 
the architectural configurations of the atoms within the 
molecules, and with the theories of the atomic physicists 
that the properties of the atoms are associated with the 
orbital architecture of the electrons." 

It cannot be a lucky hit that scientist John Nelson has 
stumbled upon a "puzzling coincidence" between meteoro- 
logical facts and astrological assumptions. He found certain 
planetary arrangements — which in the astrological lan- 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 19 


planetary arrangements — which in the astrological lan- 
guage are called benefic aspects — are apparently pacify- 
ing to the ionosphere. According to Nelson the most severe 
ionospheric disturbances will come when the "combined 
influences of Mars, Venus and Mercury are such that all 
the three are arrayed in positions where there will be a 
great concentration of planetary influences near Jupiter- 
Saturn team," and these are correlated to magnetic distur- 
bances on the earth. As Tice explains: “The earth and its 
atmosphere, though intensely charged with electricity, may 
be perfectly tranquil; until either it encounters an exciting 
cause in its own orbit, or until it is affected by similar 
occurrences in Mercury, Venus, Mars and Jupiter, when 
instantly a spasmodic paroxysm occurs either by earth- 
quakes and volcanic eruptions on the earth, by hurricanes, 
immense rainfalls and terrific electric explosions in the 
atmosphere, or by all combined, synchronous in lime and 
often coincident in place." 


"Since magnetic disturbances are but electric distur- 
bances, and since sunspots are synchronous with sudden 
and violent electric currents in the earth, and electric cur- 
rents are synchronous with oscillations in atmospheric 
pressure, with rain and wind storms, with hurricanes and 
with earthquakes, therefore we know that the bond of 
union between all these phenomena is electricity. The 
periodicity of the phenomena is owing to the ebbs and 
flows of electricity; and the ebbs and flows of electricity in 
the solar system ensue from the peculiar relations that sub- 
sist between the Sun and each planet at its equinoctial and 
solstitial points." 


20 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 
Prediction of Rain 


Astrology can provide reliable rain forecasts. Because 
of their training and apriori considerations, some scientists 
Uhave a tendency to disregard this fact of great importance 
that Astrology can be more accurate than meteorology. It 
must be noted that in Astrology as in other fields of scien- 
tific study, the great temptation that exists is the urge to 
deal with the problem by over-simplifying it. Thus for 
instance, the western astrologer might stick to the proposi- 
tion that a certain aspect between two major planets might 
cause storms. This inference is indeed an over-simplifica- 
tion and not consistent with the techniques employed in 
Hindu Astrology. The comprehensive methods of weather 
forecasting are to be found in ancient classics and they 
should be understood and applied through systematic 
investigation and research for excellent results. 

Science is beginning to indirectly endorse astrological 
theories. For instance, in 1962 Glen W. Brier of the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology announced the 
discovery of a remarkable correlation between the phases 
of the Moon and rainfall in U.S.A. Similar results were 
arrived at independently by E. E. Addericy of the Radio- 
physics Division of the CSIRO in Australia. When pre- 
cipitation data were found in terms of the Moon's phases, 
it was found that heavy rain occurred most frequently 
about four days after full Moon and reached a secondary 
peak about four days after new Moon In other words the 
greatest amount of rain fell when the Moon was either 45 
or 225 degrees from the Sun. These findings were based on 
the study of data taken from the U.S. Weather Bureau 


» Astrology in Weather Prediction 21 


precipitation statistics covering the period 1900-1949 and 
dates of maximum rainfall for each calendar month. 


When Rain Increases 


It should be within the keen observation of a student 
of Astrology that rain tends to increase when the Moon is 
at one of its nodes irrespective of its phase. Whether the 
mechanism involved is gravitational or electrical we do not 
know. But there is no doubt that a clear correlation persists 
between the movements -ef the Moon and variations in 
quantities of rainfall. 

The positions of planets in the north of the celestial 
equator have a definite influence on the movement of the 
pressure systems for periods of whole seasons. 

When a planet enters Cancer it will influence the 
weather more in the northern hemisphere while the south- 
em hemisphere is more influenced when the sign is Capri- 
com 


How Asterisms Regulate Weather 


When the Sun and the Moon are in neutral asterisms 
there will be winds; when they are in feminine asterisms 
there will be lightning and phosphorescence; and when the 
Sun occupies a femimine asterism, and the Moon a mascu- 
line asterism, or vice-versa there will be rains. 


22 ~=Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 
Heavy Rains and When They Occur 


At the time of the Sun's ingress into Gemini, if 
Venus occupies the 2nd or 12th from the rising sign and 
when at the same time, the Moon occupies a watery 
Navamsa in any sign, there will be copious rains during the 
year in question (Aries to Pisces is a year). 

When the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Saturn and Rahu 
cross the watery signs in transit and Mercury.and Venus 
conjoin a Sthoola Rasi, there will be very heavy rains. 

When the Sun, Mercury and Venus occupy the same 
sign and the same Navamsa, there will be heavy rains. But 
if these planets occupy the same Rasi (sign) and Navamsa 
and they happen to be watery signs, the rains will be all 
the more heavy. 

When the Sun occupies an earthy sign and the Moon, 
Mercury and Venus occupy watery signs, and at that time 
if a rainbow is seen in the western side, then also there 
will be rains in plentiful. 


Rainbows in Different Seasons 


In Varsha ritu (July-August) a rainbow in the eastern 
side does not give rain. 

In the other ritus (seasons) a rainbow in the east will 
bring in rains. 

A rainbow in the west during the Varsha ritu brings 
in a downpour. 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 23 


The Mock Sun and its Effects 


When the mock Sun is visible to the north of the 
Sun's disc, there will be rain; to the south there will be a 
tempest; and on both sides, a flood will come in. To the 
top of the Sun's disc means some danger to the king, and 
below will mean some calamities to the people. 


Rain at New Moon Heralds Goods Rains 


When it rains on the new Moon days and the days 
succeeding them (Prathipada days) there will be good rain- 
fall during that bright half of the lunar month. 

If it rains on full Moon days and the dark Prathipada 
(Ist lunar date) there will be no rains in the dark half. 

In both Pakshas (half-lunar months) when it rains 
during the first 15 ghatikas (6 hours) in Dwiteeya nd 
lunar day) and the last 15 ghatikas in Prathipada (1st lunar 
day) there will be copious rains during those Pakshas 
(fortnights). 

When it rains only a little on these days rains will be 
scarce during those Pakshas (fortnights). 

If it does not rain then, there will be no rain during 
that Paksha (fortnight). 


Direction of Winds and Rainfall 


When the winds blow from the north-east in the 


24 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


evening (sandhya) of the full Moon day of Ashadha (July- 
August) there will be downpour and consequent luxuriant 
vegetable life during the ensuing year. 


Lunar Days and Rainfall 


When it rains on the 4th lunar day of the dark half of 
Ashadha (July-August) on the day ruled by Poorvabhadra 
in the same month, there will be luxuriant vegetation 
during the year ahead. 

When the 5th lunar day of the bright half of the lunar 
month falls on a Sunday (in Ashadha) there will be a little 
rain. 


Weekdays and Rains 


If such a day is on a Monday there will be a downpour. 

If it is a Tuesday rains will be fierce. If Wednesday it 
would bring in a storm. 

If a Thursday, general prosperity. 

Ifa Friday — rain and loss; and 

If a Saturday, there will misery everywhere. 


Terrible Rains 


If the constellation of Rohini coincides with the 10th 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 25 
lunar day (Gin the month of Ashadha) there will be exces- 


sive rains. 

The information below is useful in giving long range 
forecasts which appear to have been a speciality with our 
ancient meteorologists. 

The Sun occupies two-and-one-fourth Nakshatras 
every month beginning from Aswini, making up 12 months 
from Aries. It occupies Poorvashadha in the month of 
Sagittarius and stays there for 13 days and 8 hours (13 
degrees and 20 minutes). 

If during the Ist day, all the sky including the Sun is 
found to be completely covered by dark clouds, there will 
be rain during the month of Gemini when the Sun occupies 
Aridra. 

If during the 2nd day all the heavens are found to be 
dark by clouds, there will be rain during the latter part of 
Gemini and the first part of Cancer when the Sun will 
occupy the asterism of Punarvasu. 

On the 3rd day, 4th day, 5th day and 6th day and so 
on till the 14th day, if the same conditions prevail, there 
will be rains during the succeeding months when the Sun 
will be in Pushyami, Aslesha. Makha, Pubba, till Moola in 
regular succession. 

If the heavens are clear, then there will be no rain 


Miscellaneous Factors and Rain 


Rains can be expected in the following periods also: 
(a) When the combustion periods of the various 
planets begin and end. 


26 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


(c) On full Moon and new Moon days. 
(d) When the Sun transits Cancer and Capricom. 
(ec) When the Sun enters the Aridra asterism. 


When Mercury conjoins Jupiter or Venus or when 
Jupiter joins Venus there will be rain. 

When Mars and Saturn join planets, then danger from 
fire, lightning and storms can be expected. 


The First Rains and Clouds 


We are also enabled to determine the very day of the 
occurrence of rain from a knowledge of the nature of the 
clouds during the day. When clouds surrounded by a radi- 
ance resembling that of the Moon, with a blue black spot 
in the centre, and pouring layers of water pass from west 
to east or east to west, we can predict that there will be 
very heavy rainfall before long. 


Halo at Sunrise shows Rain 


If in the rainy season, the sunrise is observed to have 
a halo in the east and the noon (midday) is marked by the 
intense heat of the Sun's rays, we can be sure rain will 
follow. 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 27 
Animal Behaviour 


Apart from atmospheric factors, the ancient meteoro- 
logists also took note of the behaviour of certain animals 
as indicating immediate rainfall: 

(a) Cows hastening home to meet their calves; 

(b) Cats scratching the ground with their claws; 

(c) Hills shining at a distance with a blue colouring; 

(d) The disc of the Moon gets a circular red line, the 

. colour being that of the eyes of the hen; 

(e) Chameleons climbing up trees and staring at the 

sky; 

(0 Cows too staring upwards; 

(g) Cocks crowing in the day while looking up; 

(h) Rashes of lightning are marked in the north-east 


The Moon is observed to have the colour of honey or 
of the eyes of parrots or doves. The disc of the Moon, 
though enveloped in clouds, appears to emanate a radiance 
round in shape or Prathi Chandra (mock Moon). 

Immediate rainfall is indicated when: 

(a) Claps of thunder crash in the night; 

(b) Deep red flashes of lightning are observed during 

the day; 

(c) Cold winds blow from the east; 

(d) Young sprouting leaves raise their heads high; 

(e) Birds freely bathe in water or in dust; 

(f) Serpents bask in the sunshine lying on grass; 

(g> Clouds assume the colour of a peacock, parrot, 

wild crow, or Chathaka bird and take on the 
shape of waves, hills, tortoise, pigs and fishes. 


28 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


The Solar Ingress 


Ifthe Lagna rising at the time of Aries ingress 
happens to be a watery sign and is aspected by watery 
planets there will be proper rains. If the Rasi is a fiery one 
and is associated with or aspected by fiery planets, there 
will be no rain. 

When Aries ingress happens to fall on Rohini, Anu- 
radha, Jyeshta, Uttarashadha, Abhijit, Sravana, Dhanishta, 
the year is known as {mdra Mandala. This kind of year 
brings on a fear from fire, poverty everywhere, crops fail 
and autumn crops are destroyed. 

When the ingress happens to be on Aswini, Mriga- 
sira, Punarvasu, Uttara, Hasta, Chitta or Swati, then the 
year is Vayu Mandala. Fear from kings, storms and scar- 
city of rains will be the result. 

When the ingress happens to be on Aridra, Aslesha, 
Moola, Poorvashadha, Satabhisha, Uttarabhadra or Revati 
then the year is Varuna Mandala. Good rains and general 
prosperity will ensue. 

If the fifth day of the bright half of the lunar month 
Chaitra falls: (a) on Monday or Thursday, rainfall will be 
equally spread throughout the year, (b) if on Wednesday, 
disturbed rains accompanied by winds; (c) Friday, crops 
will be destroyed; and (d) Saturday or Tuesday, there will 
be poor rains, 

If the 8th day of the bright half of the lunar month 
Vaisakha falls on Saturday or Tuesday famine will set in 
and the year will be marked by absence of regular rains. 

The constellation Mrigasira or Aridra rising on the Ist 
day of the lunar month, Jyeshta, produces excellent rains. 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 29 


Weather Changes and Vagaries 


Jyeshta Masa Index: The month of Jyeshta (May-June) 
seems to be very important for measuring the rainfall. 

If there is likely to be rain when the Moon passes 
through certain asterisms from Purvashadha to Moola in 
the lunar month of Jyeshta, there will also be rain when 
the Moon passes through the same asterisms in the rainy 
season. 

If there is no rain in the month of Jyeshta, there will 
be no rain during the monsoons. 

If there happens to be a shower during Mrigasira, 
Chitta, Revati, and Dhanishta in Jyeshta there will be good 
rains in the rainy season. 

If there be rainfall when the Moon passes through 
Satabhisha, Jyeshta and Swati, the subsequent rainfall will 
be ordinary. 


Pregnancy of Clouds 


The four days commencing from the eighth day in the 
bright half of the month of Jyeshta (May and June) are 
known as Vayudharana days. The nature of the health of 
the pregnancy of the rain clouds can be determined from 
the winds that blow on these days. 

If on the 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th days of the bright 
half of Jyeshta there happens to be rainfall in the four days 
when the Moon passes through the asterisms from Swati or 
Jyeshta, there will be good rains in the rainy season i.e., 
from Sravana to Kanika (August to November). 


30 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


If, on the Dharana (rain supporting) days the Sun and 
the Moon should be covered by wet clouds there will be 
good rains. 


Prospects of Rain — Ashadha Index 


Three days in the month of Ashadha Gune-July) have been 
specially selected by our ancient meteorologists for obser- 
vation of atmospheric conditions with a view to determine 
the future prospects of rain. 

They are the days when in the lunar month of Ashadha 
the Moon passes through the asterisms of Rohini, Swati 
and Uttarashadha. They have been respectively called the 
Rohini Yoga, Swati Yoga and Ashadhi Yoga days. 

Every Hindu astronomer had to study the atmospheric 
conditions on these three days. If the sky is noticeably 
covered with huge clouds, serpent-like in shape, white in 
certain pats and black in certain other parts, or the sky is 
covered with red clouds or clouds of the colour of blue 
lotus, and marked by lightning immediately before sunrise 
and after sunset, this is again a sure indication of heavy 
rains during the monsoons. 


Swati and Ashadhi Yogas 


On the Swati Yoga day, rainfall throughout day 
and night, purports uninterrupted rain for several days in 
winter. 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 31 


Wind from the east or north-east on the Ashadhi 
Yoga indicates good rain, good crops; wind blowing from 
the south-east, south-west or north-west indicates very little 
rainfall in the future. 

Continuous hot wind from the south-east or high 
wind from the south-west at sunset, on the Ashadhi Yoga 
day spells terrible famine. 


Rohini Yoga 


When the Moon passes through the asterism of 
Rohini in the dark half of the lunar month Ashadha, Rohini 
Yoga is caused. The astronomer "shall ascertain the direc- 
tion of the wind at the time when the Moon enters Rohini. 
He shall divide this day into eight equal parts (three hours 
each) commencing from sunrise — the parts representing 
the eight fortnights of the four months of the rainy season 
from Sravana to Kartika; and he shall determine on which 
month or fortnight and how long there will be rain judging 
from the direction and duration of the wind," 

Varahamihira then dwells at length on the nature of 
the clouds appearing on Rohini day and the results of such 
appearances. 

If on the Rohini Yoga day, the sky is clear and the 
Sun exceedingly hot, there will be rain in the rainy season. 
No rains whatsoever and much misery arc indicated if 
unusual phenomena such as meteoric falls, thunderbolts, 
mock fires etc., occur on the Rohini Yoga day. 


32 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


Rain Gauging 


Rain gauging is also found in astrological texts. According 
to Varahamihira, falling rain should be collected in a 
vessel whose capacity is an adhaka. An adhaka has been 
defined as the quantity of rainfall which falls to the brim of 
a vessel 20 inches in diameter and eight inches deep. Four 
such adhakas constitute a drona. Equipped with such a 
rain-gauge our ancient meteorologists were able to measure 
the exact quantity of rain that fell during the whole season; 
and by correlating the amount of rain that fell with the 
factors that made it possible, they were able to predict the 
exact quantity of rainfall that could be expected in the 
rainy season. If the "conception" of clouds is due to all the 
five conditions of wind, rain, lightning, thunder and clouds, 
says Varahamihira, then the quantity of subsequent rainfall 
will be one drona, and this will fall over an area of 400 
square miles. 


If the "conception" of clouds has been due to wind 
alone, the resultant rainfall will be three adhakas; 

If due to lightning, the rain will be nine adhakas; 

If due to thunder, twelve adhakas, other factors af- 
fecting rainfall. 

These quantities of rainfall are, however, modified by 
the amount of rain that falls on the days when the Moon 
passes from the asterism of Poorvashadha to that of Moola 
in the lunar month of Jyeshta Qune-July), 

During one month if it rains on the day on which the 
Moon is in the asterism of either Hasta or Poorvashadha or 
Mrigasira or Chitta or Rcvati or Dhanishta then on the 
corresponding days of the next lunar month, there will be 
16 dronas of rainfall. 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 33 


If it rains on days when the Moon is in either Sravana 
or Makha or Anuradha or Bharani or Moola then on the 
corresponding days of the next month there would be [4 
dronas of rainfall. If the Moon resides in either Satabhisha 
or Jyeshta or Swati, there would be 4 dronas of rainfall on 
the corresponding days of the rainy seasons. 

' If in Krittika, 10 dronas; 

If in Poorvaphalguni, 25 dronas; 

If in Visakha, Uttarashadha, 20 dronas; 

If in Aslesha, 13 dronas; 

If in Uttarabhadrapada or Uttaraphalguni or Rohini, 
25 dronas; 

If in Aswini, 13 dronas; 

If in Aridra, 18 dronas. 

In all the above cases the subsequent rainfall depends 
upon the asterisms being unaffected by comets, meteors 
and the like between the month of Jyeshta and the rainy 
season. 

If the asterisms should suffer by the meeting together 
,in them of the Sun, Saturn and Ketu (Moon's descending 
, Dode) or by the course of Mars through them or by plane- 
tary conjunctions, there will be neither rain nor prosperity 
in the land. 

\ If benefic planets should pass through the asterisms 
or if the asterisms should remain unaffected in any of the 
ways described above, rainfall would be good. 


Delivery of Clouds 
The delivery or birth takes place 195 days after, when the 


Moon will be in the same asterism (i.e., seven sidereal 
months after). 


34 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


Clouds that conceive in the bright and dark halves of 
the month of Margasira (November-December) and in the 
bright half of Pausha (December-January) will be delivered 
of rain respectively in the dark half of Jyeshta (May-June) 
and in the bright and dark halves of Ashadha (June-July). 
But in both these cases the rainfall will only be moderate. 

Clouds that conceive in the dark half of Pausha will 
be delivered of rain in the bright half of Sravana (July- 
August). 

Clouds that become pregnant in the bright half of 
Magha (January-February) will deliver rain in the dark half 
of Sravana (July-August) and those that become pregnant 
in the dark half of Magha will deliver in the bright half of 
Bhadrapada (August-September). 

Clouds that conceive in the bright half of Phalguna 
(February-March) will deliver in the dark half of Bhadra- 
pada and those that conceive in the dark half of Phalguna 
will deliver in the bright half of Aswiyuja (September- 
October). 

Clouds that conceive in the bright half of Chaitra 
(March-April) will deliver in the dark half of Aswiyuja and 
those that conceive in the dark half of Chaitra will deliver 
in the bright half of Kartika (October-November). 

Clouds that conceive in the east will be delivered in 
the west and vice-versa. 


Hour of Rainfall 


The very hour of the occurrence of rainfall can also 
be determined; for, says Varahamihira, clouds 'conceiving' 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 35 


during the day will be delivered at night and clouds 'con- 
ceiving’ at night will be delivered during the day; clouds 
‘conceiving' in the twilight of the evening deliver during 
the morning twilight, and vice-versa. Again, if at the time 
of conception, clouds have appeared in the east, then at the 
time of birth, they will appear in the west and so on with 
the other quarters. Similarly, if at the time of conception 
the wind has blown from the east, then at the time of rain, 
it will blow from the opposite quarter. 


Clouds that Bring Rain 


What are the signs of a healthy "conception" which 
would in due course yicld abundant rains? For that, the 
observer must study all atmospheric phenomena, such as 
rainbows, clouds, lightning and thunder, from the begin- 
ning of the month of Margasira, for about four months. 
The general atmospheric conditions for a healthy concep- 
tion of the clouds arc as follows: 

(1) Gentle and agreeable winds from the north, 

northeast and east 

(2) Clear sky. 

(3) Soft, white, deep halo round the Moon or the 

Sun. 

(4) Dark coloured sky, dark as the crow's egg. 

(5) Sky overcast with huge, bright, dense clouds. 

(6) Needle-shaped clouds. 

(7) Blood-red clouds. 

(8) Rainbow in the morning or in the evening. 


36 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


(9) Low, rumbling roar of thunder. 

(10) Lightning. 

(11) The appearance of the mock-Sun; and 

(12) Planets shining in full form and with soft light. 


Apart from these general signs, certain phenomena 
observed in certain seasons of the year indicate healthy 
"pregnancy" of the rain clouds. 

In the month of Margasira (Novcmber-December) and 
Pausha (December-January) red sky in the morning and in 
the evening, clouds surrounded by halos, and less than 
usual cold with excessive fall of snow are indications of a 
healthy conception. 

In the month of Magha (January-February) the signs 
of a healthy conception of clouds are high winds, frost and 
mist obscuring the Sun and the Moon, excessive cold, and 
sunrise and sunset under clouds. 

In the month of Phalguna (February-March) strong, 
violent winds; fine clouds marching from place to place; 
broken and imperfect halos round the Sun and the Moon; 
and tawny colour of the Sun, all these are indicative of 
abundant rainfall 195 days after. 

Sky marked by winds, clouds and halos in the months 
of Chaitra (March-April) and Vaisakha (April-May) indi- 
cate a healthy conception of clouds. 

If during the months of conception (November-May) 
the pregnant clouds appear to take on the colour of pearls 
or stiver or tamala leaf, or blue lotus, or of collyrium, then 
the rain during the season will be profuse. 

If the pregnant clouds should be exposed to the hot 
rays of the Sun, or accompanied by gentle winds, then the 
rain that follows after 195 days will be excessive. 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 37 


Certain phenomena, however, tend to nullify the 
chances of future rainfall. Clouds taking the shapes of 
cities and towers, thunderbolts, duststorms, meteoric falls, 
appearance of comets in the sky and of spots in the solar 
disc, occurrence of eclipses — all these are indications 
that the pregnant clouds will miscarry. Also, if there is 
heavy rain at the time of conception, or if the symptoms of 
a healthy pregnancy assigned to the several seasons of the 
year should fail, then the clouds will yield little’or no rain 
during the rainy season. 


Direction of the Wind and its Uses 


Here is an experiment suggested in an ancient work 
to note the direction of wind and its predictive use. Of 
course in its place we can employ the latest method for 
observing the direction of the wind. 

A thick cloth of 24 feet length and 6 feet width 
should be hoisted on a pole measuring 144 feet high firmly 
fixed to the ground, on the morning of the 15th day of the 
lunar month Ashadha. The 'flag' should be carefully 
obscrved. 

If the flag flies: 

(a) towards the east (which means the wind blows 

from the west) crops thrive well during the year; 

(b) towards agneya (north-east) — rainfall will be 

below normal; 

(c) towards south or niruti (south-west) — clouds 

form but there will be little or no rain; 


38 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


(d) towards west — excessive rainfall and strong 
winds; 

(e) towards yayuvya (south-east) — enough rains to 
give good crops; 

(f) towards eeasanya (south-east) — destruction of 
crops of heavy untimely rains. 


When the 7th day of the bright half of the lunar month 
Ashadha coincides with the 4th quarter of Purvabhadra, 
Uttarabhadra or Revati, a clear halo will form around the 
Sun and the rains will be mixed with heavy winds during 
the year in question. 


Role of Venus 


Venus in Hindu Meteorology has a close relationship with 
weather 

(a) Rainfall will be below normal in the year in 
which, during the lunar months of Sravana, Kar- 
tika, Margasira, Magha or Jyeshta, Venus sets and 
a solar eclipse caused by Rahu occurs. 

(b) There will be unprecedented rainfall resulting in 
heavy floods when Venus rises helically or sets in 
the constellations of Swati, Visakha and 
Anuradha. 

(c) Famine will break out for want of rains when 
Venus rises or sets in one of the constellations 
from Jyeshta to Sravana. 

(d) There will be drought conditions when Venus sets 
in or retrogrades in Makha or Uttarashadha. 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 39 


(ec) When Mars and Saturn are in conjunction, rainfall 
will be very low. 

(f) Clouds become scattered and rainfall disturbed, 
when the Sun, Mars and Venus transit the same 
sign. 

(g) If Jupiter joins the above combinations, clouds 
will deliver rains in plenty. 

(h) When Jupiter retrogrades in Rohini, the year will 
have less rainfall. 


Much rain results when Jupiter is in Pisces while 
Venus is in Cancer. 

Heavy winds occur when Venus and Jupiter are in 
any airy triplicity. 

Extreme heat is felt when they are in a fiery triangle. 

In an earthy triplicity the climate is rendered very 
dry, except when Jupiter is strongly aspected by a moist 
planet at the time of its ingress into an earthy triplicity. 

When Mars is in Aries in trine to the Sun in Leo a 
hot season is made hotter still and warmth added to a cold 
period. Rain in abundance is shown when they are in a 
watery triplicity and in conjunction with Venus. Very 
heavy rainfall follows an eclipse or a great conjunction in 
Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces and more so if Saturn and Jupi- 
ter see each other or they aspect the phenomena referred 
to. 

When the Sun is in conjunction with Sirius the heat 
becomes offensive and no rain could be expected unless 
the Sun is aspected either by Saturn and Jupiter or Venus. 
When Venus is transiting the area known as Pleiades in 
Taurus there is much rain and the air is kept cool. 


40 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 
Snow and Hailstorms 


During the cold season Venus in conjunction with 
Saturn gives rain. In northern and southern latitudes, 
farther than the Tropic, there will be heavy snowfall. Dur- 
ing the hot season in the equatorial regions there will be 
tain and hailstorms. 

Mercury in conjunction or opposition with Venus 
gives both sunshine and showers. Real gloomy weather 
with heavy mists results when Mercury, Mars and Saturn 
form a Tri-graha Yoga having the aspect of Venus. Cold, 
dull weather can be foreseen at a time when Saturn is as- 
pected by either the Sun or Mars together with an aspect of 
Venus. 

Jupiter in a watery sign in conjunction with or in 
opposition to Venus gives short showers and a very cool 
atmosphere. Jupiter so placed with an aspect of Satum in 
any airy sign produces a windy and wet day. Plenty of rain 
follows when Mars in Cancer is aspecting Venus in Libra 
and the rains will continue for several days if the Moon 
and Jupiter cast their aspects also. 

Mars rules thunder, especially when in a fiery sign it 
brings terrific thunder without rain. Sometimes lightning 
also occurs. If aspected either by Venus or Saturn, heavy 
tains with large drops of water will pour down accompa- 
nied by violent thunder. 

Whenever the Sun is in conjunction with or in oppo- 
sition to Satum the weather is cool (or cold according to 
the latitude) only if either Mars or Mercury does not aspect 
the Sun. Similar indications are noted when Jupiter is in 
roniunction with or in opposition to Satum. 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 41 


The aspects of Mars and Satum produce clear, cool 
weather with slight showers but Satum and Venus produce 
a dull wet time. 

Any planet separating from the aspect of Jupiter and 
applying to an aspect of Satum reduces the temperature of 
the air. In latitudes where winter is normal there will be 
bitter cold winds. Along the equator the temperature will 
be reduced. 


Forecasting the Winter 


A mild winter can be easily foresecn when at the time 
of Sun's ingress into Capricorn (about December 22) the 
Moon or Venus passes over Satum and joins Jupiter. A 
very cold, hard, frosty and snowy winter follows if the 
movement is from Jupiter to Satum. This is especially so 
in countries like England and Germany. 


Droughts and Saturn 


Droughts are noticed when Satum is unaspected in 
Aries, Leo or Sagittarius. 


What Kind of Winds 


Strong south-west winds are indicated when Mars or 


4zAstrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


Satur occupy Gemini, Libra or Aquarius and the two are 
in opposition or square to each other. Mars in Gemini and 
Satum in Pisces bring heavy winds. 

South-west winds result when Jupiter is in Aquarius 
in opposition to Satum in Leo. North-west monsoon winds 
are ruled by Satum and south-west, by Jupiter. When they 
are in airy signs the direction of the wind is easily ascer- 
tained. South-west winds also arise when the eclipse occurs 
in an airy sign. 

Directions: North winds — Jupiter: Easterly — 
Satum; Westerly — Mars; Southern — Venus; and Mixed 
— Mercury. 

The air is essentially ruled by the planet which is 
applying to the Moon after its conjunction, opposition or 
square with the Sun. 


Constellational Methods to Forecast Rain 


Ancient Astro-meteorology divides the different con- 
stellations into different groups as in the Table below: 


Punarvasu, Uttarashadha, Rohini, Jyeshta Vayunadi 
Uttara, Unarabhadra, Poorvabhadra, Hasta Amritanadi 
Anuradha, Abhijit, Pushy a, Krittika Dahananadi 
Satabhisha, Revati, Chitta, Pubba Jalanadi 
Bharani, Visakha, Aslesha, Sravana Soumyanadi 
Swati, Makha, Dhanishta, Aswini Neeranadi 
Moola, Purvashadha, Aridra, Mrigasira Chandanadi 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 43 


During winter solstice (Dakshinayana) malefic planets 
(Satum, Sun, and Mars) transiting through the Amrita, Jala 
and Neeranadis, would give rise to ordinary rains. If bene- 
fic planets transit the above constellations there will be 
plenty of rain. 


Planets Nature of Nadi Results 
Saturn, Sun, Mars Saumya Ordinary rain 


Jupiter, Venus, 
Mercury and Moon Saumya Good rain 


Jupiter, Venus, 
Mercury and Moon Vayu. Chanda, Ordinary showers 
Dhana 


Saturn, Sun, Mars Vayu, Chanda, No rain 
Dhana 


Cancer, Pisces and Capricorn are full watery signs; 
Taurus, Leo and Aquarius are half watery signs; Aries, 
Libra and Scorpio are quarter watery signs while Gemini, 
Virgo and Sagittarius are not watery signs. 

Aswini, Krittika, Rohini, Purvabhadra, Uttarabhadra, 
Anuradha, Sravana, Punarvasu, Pushya are masculine; 
Bharani, Hasta, Chitta, Swati, Visakha, Pubba, Uttara, 
Aslesha, Makha, Jyeshta, Aridra, Dhanishta, Puryashadha 
and Revati are feminine; Satabhisha, Mrigasira and Moola 
are neutral. 

Cast a horoscope for the time at which the Sun enters 


44 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


a certain constellation or a certain quarter of a constellation 
(in the rainy season). If at this time the Moon is in Jalarasi 
or watery sign and Mars or Satum is in the Sth, 7th or 9th 
from Lagna, there will be heavy rain on that day. 

The time (number of ghatis after sunrise) at which the 
Sun enters a particular constellation or quarter of a 
Nakshatra may be taken as root number; add to this the 
number of thithi (on the day in question), weekday and the 
constellation. Multiply the sum by 6 and divide the product 
by 8. If the remainder be 1, ordinary rain; 2, fairly good 
rain; 3, ordinary rain; 4, rain accompanied by wind; 5, 
excess of rain; 6, no rain; and 7, ordinary rain. 

In regard to the foretelling of rainfall, (a) the 5th day 
of the bright half of Chaitra, (b) the 8th day of the light 
half of Vaisakha, (c) the Ist day of light half of Jyeshta, 
(d) the lunar months Ashadha and Sravana seem to have 
some special significance attached to them. Coincidence of 
certain constellations on certain dates seems to give rise to 
sudden fall of rain and all these details deserve our careful 
attention. Of all these, the lunar month Ashadha is of para- 
mount importance according to Varahamihira, which we 
shall explain at length on a subsequent occasion for the 
information of our readers. 

If the Sth day of the lunar month Chaitra falls on 
Monday or Thursday, there will be an equable distribution 
of rain throughout the year and crops will thrive; Wednes- 
day — disturbed rains accompanied by winds; Friday — 
destruction of crops; Saturday or Tuesday — want of rains 
and famine indications. 

If the 5th day of Chaitra coincides with the constella- 
tion of Aridra, famine conditions during the year are most 
likely. 


‘astrology in Weather Prediction 45 


If the 8th day of the light half of Vaisakha falls on 
Saturday or Tuesday — crops will be destroyed for want 
of regular rains; Monday — plenty; Wednesday — higl 
winds; Thursday — good crops; Sunday — ordinary rains. 

lf the Ist day of the light half of Jyeshta coincides 
with the constellations of Mrigasira and Aridra — the rain- 
fall would be plenty; with Bharani, Krittika and Jyeshta — 
want of rain and destruction of crops. 

lf an assessment on rain has to be made during the 
monsoon the best indications are: 1f the Moon be in one of 

the watery signs and if that sign at the same time be either 
" the Lagna or the 4th, the 7th or the 10th, it then being the 
bright half of the month, there will be an abundance of 
immediate rain; if it be the dark half of the month, and the 
Moon in one of the watery signs and within sight of bene- 
fic planets, there will also be an abundance of immediate 
rain; if in the latter case, the Moon is aspected by malefics, 
there will be slight rain. 


if the Moon is in the 71h from Venus and within view 
* of benefice planets, or be in the 9th, Sth or 7th house from 
Saturn there will be immediate rain. 

The rainfall would be very great, if the planets are 
close to the Sun — either towards the east or towards he 
west. 

Practical experience will go a long way towards 
simplifying these problems; and careful observation will 
prove that however difficult it may be to unravel some 
combinations and foresee their precise effects, yet cach 
factor actually exerts its influence and works towards the 
final resultant. 


46 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


Of the several methods recommended by classical 
writers for forecasting rainfall, floods and weather vaga- 
ries, the most important ones are: (a) the lunar new year 
chart, (b) time of pregnancy of clouds, (c) entry of the Sun 
into the constellation of Aridra, (2) Sun's entry into Capri- 
com, (e) Rohini, Swati and Ashadha Yogas, and () mutual 
dispositions of planets at a given time. 

I shall illustrate some of these methods with reference 
to the lunar year (17 March, 1961 to 4 March, 1962) which 
goes under the name of ‘Plava’. This means "the land will 
simply be inundated with water due to heavy rains, people 
wiil suffer from affliction and crops will be destroyed by 
pests". The principal cloud going under the name of 
Varuna takes its origin in the N.W. of Meru, hence indicat- 
ing heavy rains during the rainy season. It is during the 
lunar month of Nija Jyeshta (14 June, 1961 to 12 July, 
1961) and also in Ashadha (12 July, 1961 to 11 August, 
1961) that heavy rainfall and great floods are indicated. In 
the beginning of the month of Jyeshta, the Sun travels in 
dahananadi for a period of eight days. Venus transits 
ativatha and vatha while Mars, Mercury and Saturn pro- 
gress in jalamriia soumya rasi nadi. In the lunar month of 
Ashadha the influences are more favourable for causing 
destructive rains especially because all the planets, except- 
ing Venus, pass through rasajalasoumyanadi, Throughout 
this lunar month there is no Ravimadhya dosha, i.c., the 
Sun being hemmed in between Mercury and Venus; hence 
the locus of destruction will be in the western and southern 
parts. The Sun enters the asterism of Aridra on 20 June, 
1961 at about 822 am. (LS.T.) (See Chart No. 1). 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 47 


The chart is highly significant. The Ascendant is 
Cancer — a profusely watery sign, aspected powerfully by 
Saturn. Even Capricorn is a semi-watery sign. Hence 
Jupiter becomes a watery planet by occupation. Its as- 
pecting Lagna from amrita nadi, ruled by the Moon, a 
watery planet is equally significant. 

According to astro-meteorology of the Hindus, the 
Moon and Venus are full-blown watery planets. Here 
Venus is situated in the 10th, a powerful place for causing 
floods. Fortunately here it does not occupy a watery sign 
but the Navamsa is semi-watery. Mercury is in Aridra 


48 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


itself. These are all influences favouring heavy rainfall. 
From Ist August to 15th August both the Sun and Mercury 
will be in Cancer, a purnajalarasi while on the 14th and 
15th, both the planets will be in purna jala Navamsa. 
About these dates Venus will be in Mesha Navamsa, 
countering to some extent the indication for heavy rainfall. 
Added to these, the bright half of the lunar month Ashadha 
falls on a Tuesday. According to PRASNA MARGA, all 
such celestial phenomena favour heavy rainfall. 


Rain in the Immediate Future 


While ancient meteorology can predict rain long in 
advance, it is no difficult thing to forecast rain in the 
. immediate future. 

During the rainy season, immediate rainfall is indi- 
cated: 

If the Sun at the time of rising is exceptionally bright 

and red, or 

If the taste of water is insipid, or 

the colour of the sky is that of the cow's eye. 

If at the time of sunrise or sunset rainbow is seen in 

the sky, or 

If salt begins to sweat, or 

If fish in tanks jump from water on the bank, or 

If mctal vessels emit a fishy smell, or 

If ants with their eggs move from one place to 

another. 


Astrology in Weather Prediction 49 


When rain is expected and a low cloud is approaching, 
the odour of metal vessels and of drains becomes 
noticeable as the lower pressure causes some of the air to 
escape, and one observes a change in the behaviour of 
animals and insects which react to a change in the 
atmospheric conditions. The red colour of the Sun, the halo 
around the Sun and the Moon and presence of clouds, all 
indicate the hazy condition of the atmosphere. 

Measures can be devised by the authorities concerned 
to teduce flood-threats by building embankments at vulner- 
able spots. The intensity of the evil can also be minimised 
by having recourse to remedial measures prescribed by the 
sages. These measures consist mainly of employing certain 
Japas. It is not superstition that connects mantras with 
rains. Mantras are regulated forms of sound vibrations. 
And sound waves can not only create rainfall but they can 
also reduce the intensity. 


Section 2 
Astrology in Earthquake Prediction 


Role of Solar Spots 


A major earthquake rocked the West Coast of India 
and razed Koynanagar to the ground at 4.22 am. (IST) on 
11 December, 1967 causing heavy casualties and rendering 
thousands of people homeless. Apart from the heavy loss 
of life and property, the earthquake upset the theory of 
geologists that the Deccan Plateau was immune to major 
earthquakes. Considering the intensity of the earthquake, 
experts felt that the country had indeed escaped with the 
major havoc confined to a small area. Geologists, gco- 
physicists and seismologists were puzzled as to how this 
quake could have occurred in a zone which was considered 
quite safe and busied themselves with making post-mortem 
studies of the causes. Some Japanese experts who were 
there then expressed the view that the major shocks "were 
of tectonic origin". One geophysicist suggested that the im- 
pounding of water in the Koyna Dam and the resultant 
pressures and earth subsidence, could have caused the 
earthquake. While conceding the scientist's right to indulge 
in speculative theories, we have to observe that the cata- 
strophic visitation in this area only demonstrated that 
Nature has its own unpleasant surprises to reveal, thereby 
putting human beings in an utterly insignificant stature in 
the cosmos. 


Western scientists think that earthquakes are due to ° 
some sudden displacement within the earth. John Michell, 
a geology professor of Cambridge Unversity, was the first 


54 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


to attribute the vibratory movement in earthquakes to what 
he called "elastic waves traversing the crust." Though 
seismology is held to be "an exact science", we have yet to 
hear of a seismologist who can predict correctly the occurr- 
ence of an earthquake. The only interesting development of 
seismology seems to be the seismograph which registers 
even distant earthquakes but of course, only after they have 
occurred. 

On the statistical side (regarding distribution, fre- 
quency, secondary effects, periodicity, etc.,) modem scien- 
tists have no doubt done considerable research work. The 
following findings are interesting: 

In countries like Italy, Japan, Peru and China earth- 
quakes are not only of frequent occurrence but of destruc- 
tive strength also. 

In countries like Switzerland earthquakes are numerous 
but they seldom cause damage. 

According to Mantessu, out of every 100 earthquakes, 
53 occurred along the Mediterranean circle, 38 along the 
circum-Pacific circle and nine, elsewhere. He also supposed 
that there is an intimate connection between earthquakes 
arid volcanoes. Despite all the advances claimed by seismologists, 
it is clear that the provision of earthquakes is as yet in its 
initial stage and that so long as the seismologist confines 
his investigations only to a study of the "faults" in the 
bowels of the earth, the true causes of earthquakes will 
continue to remain a mystery. 

According to the theory of astrology propounded by 
ancient sages, all phenomena, including the occurrence of 
earthquakes, are regulated by planetary movements. Some 
of the scientists have also been indirectly confirming astro- 
logical theories. For instance, P, Merian noticed that the 


Astrology in Earthquakes Prediction 55 


epoch of greatest frequency occurs in winter, while in insu- 
lar and peninsular regions the frequency is greatest in 
summer. 

An exceptionally violent earthquake hit a very densely 
populated industrial region, 150 kilometres east of Beijing 
in China in July 1976. The city of Tangshan was reported 
to be in total ruins. At least 100,000 people were said to 
have lost their lives. The quake-damaged buildings in 
Beijing, amongst them the famous hall of the peoples. Fear- 
ing more shocks, the city's six million people stayed out of 
their houses. The tremors were said to be of a great magni- 
tude damaging several dams, bridges and houses in many 
parts of north-east China. 


Apart from the huge loss of life and property and the 
need for diversion of resources to rehabilitate the areas 
damaged, the earthquake in China was also feared to have 
political implications. The impact of the earthquake on 
"superstitious peasants" worried the Government, because 
of the anticipation (of the peasants) that this natural pheno- 
menon "presaged a national calamity or a change of 
dynasty as had been interpreted when monarchs ruled the 
land." 

Scientists, as usual, were not agreed as to the exact 
cause of the earthquakes. Though the Russians claimed 
about 15 years ago to have made an important discovery in 
the field of earthquake prediction, nothing further has been 
known as to whether any reliable system of forecasting 
earthquakes was developed. Their discovery that the "ratio 
between the velocities of natural wave motions through the 
ground dropped significantly days before an earthquake 
and then returned to normal just before it took place" is 
said to be an important step towards the direction of 


56 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


making earthquake forecast But no two scientists seem to 
agree either regarding the cause of earthquakes or methods 
of forecast. 

After the Koyna disaster in 1967, the "water-load" 
theory was advanced by the French scientist Rothe and 
later by the Indian scientists, Gupta and Rastogi. Then a 
team of UNESCO experts found that "the impounded 
water was not the cause." Subsequently Dr. McKenzie of 
Cambridge and Dr. Brune of California Universities 
advanced the theory that "earthquakes lubricate themselves 
at an early stage and then spread rapidly”. 

The astonishing fact is that most of the scientists, 
engaged in earthquake studies, do not seem to take an inte- 
grated view of what is happening on or above the eatth’s 
crust. 

It must be noted that it is the planetary positions vis- 
a-vis the Sun that account for earthquakes. Such a theory is 
not an idle fantasy especially in the light of the findings 
of some scientists that earthquakes can be triggered by 
changes in solar activity. 

Dr. Anderson, a seismologist of the California Insti- 
tute of Technology, docs not look at seismic events in iso- 
lation. In an analysis of a 17-year period of violence (1897 
to 1914) "during which there were quakes of a magnitude 
greater than eight on the Richter scale" he saw that "tsuna- 
mis (tidal waves 30 meters’ high) increased in number, 
the length of the day changed, that is, the earth's rotation 
slowed down, the world's mean temperature rose by one 
degree and the ‘Chandler wobble was at its peak'." He 
says further that they were interlinked. All these geo-physi- 
cal events are part of a large energy-chain. The periodicity 
of the Chandler-wobble is 40 years and this is said to 


Astrology in Earthquakes Prediction 57 


explain the 1950 and 1952 earthquakes in Assam at 
Kamchatka. 

Therefore, the vagaries of the Sun are not without 
consequence for our planet, let alone for the human species 
on it. Dangjon, Director of Observatory at Paris, announced 
that during January, February and March 1963, the days 
had been shorter. And it is worthwhile noting that Dangjon 
announced an important deviation in the earth's rotation 
before the disaster of Agadir. 


If, as scientists have discovered, the Sun's vagaries 
alter the duration of the day, it is reasonable to assume that 
they may even induce earthquakes. In 1966 astronomer 
Trellis showed evidence that the "gravitational effect of the 
planets moderates the eleven-year solar-active cycle". Con- 
sequently, it is the Sun and the planetary juxtapositions 
that could afford a mathematically workable mcthod to 
forecast all natural phenomena including, of course, earth- 
quakes. 

The Sun has been worshipped by the great sages of 
India as a true benefactor. They realised its vast and bene- 
ficient influences on the earth. The Sun which transforms 
the waters of the ocean into vapour and thus generates the 
dew, the rain, also the springs, the rivers and organic matter 
extends his influence to the depths of our planet as well. 
The Sanskrit classic GARGA SAMHITA traces the quak- 
ing of the earth to Kefus or dark spots on the Sun. This 
theory is gaining credibility with some modem scientists. 

In May 1960 in Chile when everything was shining 
with joy and freshness, the ground suddenly swung under- 
foot like an old wooden bridge. Cracks appeared on house- 
walls. The needles of seismographs jerked and automatic 
recorders began to pen wild curves. Buildings collapsed 


58 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


like a pack of cards. Thousands were left homeless as 
Chile was rocked by an earthquake. Two days earlier the 
scientists had found that a huge spot was passing over the 
central meridian and they thought that the spot had caused 
the disaster. And many scientists have also attributed, even 
if they do not publicly admit this, the formation of solar 
spots to configurations of planets. It is when the solar spots 
are large and numerous, that the magnetic storms occur 
upon the earth causing in their turn subterranean disturb- 
ances, volcanic eruptions etc. Many scientists have been at 
pains to prove the connection that exists between these ter- 
restrial phenomena and those of the Sun. Indeed it is not 
the Sun alone which provokes the earthquake shocks. The 
Moon, the planets and even the comets stimulate the 
activity of the subterranean forces. 


Eleven-Year Cycle Theory 


We can construct a simple theory in simple non-tech- 
nical language. These countless heavenly bodies, as they 
gravitate round the Sun in turn, approach and move away 
from it in measured periods, some gravitating alone and 
others in harmonious groups, some passing rapidly like 
lightning and in clusters, some slackening their speed when 
they move away from the Sun as if loath to leave it, some 
speeding towards it at a headstrong and ever quickening 
pace. And all these bodies, which form around the Sun, 
their common lord, such an animated, harmonious and 
life-like chain exercise a marked influence upon one 
another. Infinite i its variety, this reciprocal action depends 


Astrology in Earthquakes Prediction 59 


upon the magnitude of the planets, upon their distance and 
upon their position in space. The nearer a planet like the 
earth is to another planet in the solar system, the more it is 
attracted by it, and if this planet is powerful, if its action is 
at any moment combined with that of a neighbouring body 
to influence the earth, the latter may be affected to an 
extraordinary degree. Investigations have been made in 
view of this, to discover whether at the principal epochs of 
Sidereal influence there have been many severe earth- 
quakes. 


More investigations have tended to confirm that a 
greater proportion of earthquakes falls on the high latitudes 
at the beginning of the 11-year cycle and on the mean lati- 
tudes when the Sun's activity is on the decline. It follows 
therefore that within a cycle the centre of seismic activity 
moves from the high latitudes to the equator. According to 
some scientists, if we compare the graphs of solar activity, 
the occurrence of earthquakes and the velocity of the earth's 
rotation, we find that the curves are distinctly similar thus 
showing a definite connection between these three factors. 

Decades ago M. Delanney of France showed that 
each time the earth in its revolution round the Sun is 
brought within the action of a large planet like Jupiter, 
there are more or less severe earthquakes. Our own investi- 
gations have shown that at the times of severe earthquakes, 
Jupiter is placed in an angle or the 12th or 8th from the 
rising sign at the time of the earthquake occurrence. 


Jupiter-Rahu Movements 


It has also been noted that "shocks are fell more 


60 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


frequently during the quiet hours of the night" shortly after 
midnight. Milne has also found that great earthquakes are 
frequent "near the times when changes occur in the direc- 
tion of the polar movements.” It has also been found 
"based on the list of destructive earthquakes from 1701 to 
1889 recorded in Milne's catalogue" that there are periods 
of "11, 23, 33, 119 years in earthquakes of the northern 
hemisphere". These periodicities remind us of the periodi- 
city of sunspots and Jupiter's and Rahu’s movements. At 
least two scientists — Alekis Perry and Stetson— have 
come nearer to truth by indirectly confirming the fact that 
it is the earth's relation to the rest of the solar system that 
is of consequence in predicting earthquakes. Perry asserted 
that earthquakes are most numerous about the time of new 
and full Moon, when the Moon is nearest to the earth and 
when it crosses the meridian of the place of observation. 


According to Dr. H. J, Stetson "When the orbit of the 
Moon is in a particularly close relation to the epicentres of 
earthquake sources, the strain on the earth at that point is 
at its maximum and therefore the crust of the carth is likely 
to break producing an earthquake.” 

It is not only the movements of the Moon that cause 
earthquakes but other planets, especially Jupiter, which are 
equally responsible. 


Parasara on Earthquakes 


It is said that the subject of earthquakes has been 
exhaustively dealt with by Sage Parasara in the third part 
of his Hora, but unfortunately this particular part has not 


Astrology in Earthquakes Prediction 61 


been traced. We have some notes purporting to be based 
on this volume, from which it becomes clear that earth- 
quakes are due to some extra-terrestrial causes. 

As early as the beginning of Kaliyuga (310 B.C.) 
Parasara had observed thus: "Arka Chandra grahana graha 
vikrithachara jamscha kampana hayulu" meaning that 
when the course of a planet is disturbed from the normal 
path owing to the attractive force of other planets there is a 
shaking of the planet which is perceived as an earthquake. 
Though sage Gargi says that earthquakes are due to 
volcanic eruptions Parasara's view seems to be more 
reasonable as it can be proved astrologically. In fact, pla- 
netary action as an exciting cause of earthquakes is only 
doubted by those who have never made any fair and com- 
plete inquiry into it. Aristotle placed on record the fact that 
it sometimes happens that there is an earthquake about the 
time of the eclipse of the Moon. 


Site of Earthquake f 


By means of monthly lunations and solar and lunar 
eclipses, it is possible to predict earthquakes. When a num- 
ber of superior planets are in conjuction or in the same 
declination or in the same latitude, there will be earth- 
quakes. Several planets in the Tropics also give rise to this 
phenomenon. Eclipses falling at quadrants to Jupiter, 
Satum or Mars also produce earthquakes. The area of the 
occurrence is generally indicated by the zodiacal sign in 
which the above combinations occur or by the sign which 


62 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


has the conjunction or the eclipse of the meridian or the 
Nadir. The locality is also indicated in places where Satum' 
or Jupiter is on the meridian. 


On 15 January, 1934 a massive quake occurred in 
Bihar. It was a new Moon day and seven planets were 
in configuration in the sign of Capricorn (Chart 1), The 
Sun, Mars and the Moon were all in exact conjunction in 
the constellation of Uttarashadha niled by the Sun, lord of 
the 8lh from the Moon It will be noted that the earthquake 


Astrology in Earthquakes Prediction 63 


occurred after the Moon entered Capricorn. The occurrence 
of the earthquake had been forecast by a number of Indian 
astrologers, long before the event. The sign involved is 
earthy. Shocks were also felt in Mexico and Chile ruled by 
Capricom. For China, the deadly conjunction falls in the 
Nadir. The conjunction and the eclipse have both taken 
place in Capricorn. Mark the fact that Mercury is in close 
conjunction with the Moon 

Coming to the July 1976 Chinese earthquake, the 
US. Geological Survey, Colorado, estimated the magnitude 
of the first quake (which occurred on 28th July, 1976) at 
LIS am. (IST) or 3.45 am. Peking Time as 8.2 points “on 
the open-ended Richter Scale" and said that it was the 
world's strongest for 12 years. 

It is said that Chinese scientists had predicted a few 
weeks earlier of the impending earthquake. According to 
Dr. C. Barry Raeigh, geo-physicist, and his colleagues 
in the team that visited China a month earlier, the radio- 
stations in Peking had been warning the people of the 
natural calamity. It is also acknowledged that the Govern- 
ment could not give any advance warning to the people to 
stay out of doors. 


Ground Glows 


One implication of the disaster was the earthquake 
predicting system could have failed to work. But the 
American visitors, referred to above, learnt that the 
Chinese were able to forewarn on the basis of "earthquake 
lights" or "ground glows" discerned in their laboratories 


64 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


and also by peculiar animal behaviour. Geophysicists say‘ 


the Chinese theory of "ground glows" is convincing 
“because of the considerable release of electricity" during the 
earthquakes, which means a correlation between positions 
of planets and the electrical disturbances. The American 
visitors did not wish to dismiss the theory of unusual 
animal behaviour also. Two hours before the quake, tigers 
at the Tienstin zoo began acting strangely. There was panic 
among the chickens. Pigs refused to enter their holes and 
horses and sheep ran about in a frenzy. Nature's earth- 
quake sensors gave good clues to the oncoming disaster. 


om 


Chart 7 


Rasi 
28-7-1976 


Astrology in Earthquakes Prediction 65 


In Chart 2, the Lagna is Gemini, an airy sign. There 
is a five-planet combination in the 2nd house affecting the 
8th or house of destruction. Jupiter and Mars are in mutual 
square (Kendra). The earthquake on the 28th followed in 
the wake of the new Moon on the 26th. The most impor- 
tant feature is again the closeness of the Moon and Mer- 
cury. On the new Moon day, the Moon was in Punarvasu 
and the earthquake occurred when it entered Aslesha, the 
constellation hcld by Mercury. It is evident that the Moon 
and Mercury have a significant role to play in causing 
earthquakes. 

It will be seen that on the day of the Chinese earth- 
quake except Jupiter (and the shadowy planets Rahu and 
Ketu) the rest were all clustered within an arc of 38°. 

Certain basic astrological facts bearing on the occur- 
rence of earthquakes thrust themselves prominently before 
us after a study of several charts. If, according to modem 
science everything in life is electrical in nature, then the 
tiniest atom and the great cosmos, including the planets, 
the earth and the Sun, are therefore subject to certain 
mathematical laws. We do not know whether earthquakes 
are caused by gravitational effects of the Sun, the Moon 
and other planets. The grouping of planets in certain signs 
shows significant correspondence with earthquakes. Planets 
may affect the force-field of the earth and cause earth- 
quakes. 

The planetary bodies occupying certain sensitive areas 
in the zodiac, occasion the occurrence of earthquakes. But 
the paradox is that though there arc astrological principles 
for predicting earthquakes, some clues are yet to be dis- 
covered. There is some snag somewhere and it is only by 


66 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


deep study and research that we can reconstruct astro- 
seismology on the basis of ancient astrological principles. 

A careful study of over 200 earthquakes reveals the 
following interesting features: 


(1) Earthquakes generally, though not always, occur at 
the times of eclipses and near new and full Moon 
days; 

(2) The time of occurrence will be near about midnight, 
midday or early morning; 

(3) The major planets — Mars, Satum, Rahu and Jupiter, 
and the minor planets — Mercury and the Moon — 
will be in mutual angles (Kendras) or trines (Trikonas) 
and near the 10th or 4th house; 

(4) The Moon plays an important role and the Nakshatra 
ruling on that day gives a clue to the area of occur- 
rence on the basis of the Avakahada arrangement; 

(5) Major planets generally occupy earthy or airy signs; 
and 


(6) The asterism of the day belongs to "Prithvi" or 
"Vayu" Mandala. 


A study of earthquake charts will confirm these find- 
ings. 

The most devastating earthquake on the sub-continent 
of India was the one on 11 October, 1737 at about mid- 
night, when lakhs of people are believed to have perished 
in the region. On the night between October 11 and 12, a 
terrible cyclone raged at the mouth of the Ganga. Just as 
the storm subsided violent shocks of earthquake destroyed 
imumerable houses not only along the banks of the river 
but at Calcutta also. The waters of the Ganga, it is said, 
rose more than thirty fect above their ordinary level and 


Astrology in Earthquakes Prediction 67 


more than 300,000 people died. The study of planets on 
this day reveals that not only were the major planets Satum 
and Mars in mutual angles, (Chart 3) but even the meridian 
and the Ascendant were afflicted. The lunar day was the 
3rd. 


Planets in Trikonas 


The earthquake of 23 February, 1887 (time unknown) 
which caused much destruction in Rivera, Argentina, 


68 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


closely followed the annular eclipse of the Sun on the 22nd 
of the month. But the Moon (Chart 4) was not in perigee. 
Mars, Moon and Mercury were in conjunction and in trine 
to Satum. Seven bodies are disposed in mutual Trikona 
Rasis in airy signs. 


: i: iY 


On 3 June, 1887 the terrible earthquake of Manila 
destroyed 1,000 lives. On the | June, there was a total 
lunar eclipse and Moon was in perigee (Chart 5). 


Astrology in Earthquakes Prediction 69 


Navamsa 


Jupiter} Ken | Merc. 


Saturn-Mars in Kendras 


When an annular eclipse of the Sun took place on 
10 November, 1882, the Sun, Moon, Rahu and Mercury 
were in Libra and Mars and Satum in Scorpio and Taurus 
respectively in mutual Kendras (Chart 6). At the time of 
the eclipse Libra was rising in Java. From 13th November 
began a series of earthquakes which continued at short inter- 
vals throughout 1883 “rendering the period memorable for 
frequency of earthquake shocks and volcanic eruptions.” 


70 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


Eclipse Degree and Mars 


One of the greatest earthquake disasters was the Japa- 
nese earthquake on 1 November, 1923. Some 60 per cent 
of Tokyo alone including 300,000 houses was destroyed. 
80 per cent of Yokohama was reduced to ashes. The total 
loss of life was around 140,000. The shocks began just 
before noon. The ruling star of the day was Bharani presi- 
ded over by Yama, the deity of destruction (Chart 7). The 
lunar day was the 6th, neither full Moon nor new Moon. 


Astrology in Earthquakes Prediction 71 


There was a lunar eclipse on 26 August, the eclipse degree 
being aspected by Mars. At the time of the earthquake the 
10th degree of Scorpio was rising and Mars was exactly in 
the 10th house and Ketu was in trine from Jupiter. 


New Moon and Mutual Kendras 


When the Bihar earthquake took place on 15 January, 
1934, it was a new Moon day (Chart 1). Except Venus all 


72 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


the planets are in mutual Kendras, the Moon and Mercury 
being in exact conjunction and the sign involved being 
watery. The constellation is Uttarashadha and the earth- 
quake occurred after the entry of the Moon into Capricom. 
Mercury and Jupiter, the indicators respectively of know- 
ledge and wisdom in natal Astrology, cannot escape the 
blame for causing earthquakes. Mercury is unstable, and 
therefore, possibly reflects the vibrations of other planets. 


Jupiter-Saturn Opposition 


Rasi 
15-8-1950 


Astrology in Earthquakes Prediction 73 


The Assam earthquake which occurred on 15 August, 
1950 is said to be the greatest recorded upto this time, and 
British observers calculated that "Mount Everest had been 
lifted two feet by it". Here again the earthquake occurred 
just two days after new Moon when the Moon was near 
perigee (Chart 8). Mars and Jupiter are in mutual trines 
while Mercury is in conjunction with both the Moon and 
Satum. Jupiter and Satum are in opposite signs. Another 
factor to be noted is the situation of Mars and Jupiter in 


airy signs. 


Jupiter-Saturn Conjunction 


Two of the worst earthquakes occurred in 1960 per- 
haps due to Jupiter-Saturn remaining in the same sign. 

Earthquakes uprooted the coastal city of Agadir, in 
France leaving over 12,000 dead. The first quake hit the 
town just before midnight on 29 February, 1960. 

How severe the tremors were can be judged from the 
fact that the earthquake was registered by seismographs as 
far away as in Moscow and even the recording instruments 
in Morocco were damaged by the shock. According to 
Professor Bernal, the energy required for such an upheaval 
would approximate the strength of one thousand hydrogen 
bombs. Immediately after the first tremor, a huge tidal 
wave swept in adding enormously to the suffering of the 
people. Floods, fires and sea erosions all followed the 


disastrous earthquakes. 


74 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


29-2-1960 


The Moon rules liquids and hence in the occurrence 
of earthquakes, it has a significant part to play. It will be 
seen that the earthquake on the 29th February (Chart 9) 
followed the new Moon on the 26th in Aquarius, an airy 
sign. On 27th the Moon joined Mercury and on the 29th 
the Moon was exactly in a Kendra from Satur. The dispo- 
sition of Rahu, Satum and Jupiter and the Moon and Mer- 
cury in mutual Kendras is also to be noted. The asterism 
was Revati ruled by Mercury. 

About three thousand people were killed and 3,000 
injured in the earthquake which shattered the south Persian 


Astrology in Earthquakes Prediction 75 


towns of Ler and Carash on 25 April, 1960. The first shock 
occurred at 13 G.MLT. It cannot be a coincidence that on 
23rd April the Moon occulted Mercury and passed through 
Kendra positions from Jupiter and Satum. It was a new 
Moon day. The Ascendant is an earthy sign, aspected by 
Mars (Chart 10). Both Jupiter and Satum are near the 
lower meridian while Mercury is setting. Jupiter, Satum, 
Mercury and Rahu are all in mutual Kendras, the Naksha- 
tra being that of Ketu. 

A most terrible earthquake disaster devastated several 
thousand square miles of northwest Iran on 2 September, 


76 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


1962, the first shock having occurred at 10.55 p.m. It 
brought ruin to 75 towns and villages and even according 
to official reports ten thousand people were killed. 


The Lagna is again an earthy sign, Taurus (Chart 11). 
The earthquake followed in the wake of the new Moon on 
30 August, 1962. The most remarkable feature is again the 
fact that the Moon passed over Mercury on Ist September 
having trined Satum also. Jupiter is exactly in the 10th 
house, though not in the medium coeli, and Mars and 


Jupiter in mutual trines. Mercury and Mars are again in 
mutual Kendras. 


Historic Fact 


One of the greatest of all known earthquakes was that 
which mined Lisbon on 1 November, 1755. It is reported 
that shocks were felt all over Portugal and parts of Spain, 


78 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


southern France and northern Africa totalling the disturbed 
area to nearly a million square miles. "The sea retired, 
laying bare the bar and then rolled into a height of 40 feet. 
In Italy and Switzerland lakes were set in oscillation". The 
destruction of life was immense. It will be seen that on the 
day of the earthquake Mars, Jupiter, Rahu and Moon were 
in mutual Kendras. Satum and Jupiter were in earthy signs, 
and the earthquake occurred two days before new Moon 
(Chart 12). The day of the earthquake was Ist November. 
Marie Antionette was bom on the 2nd November, 1755 
under almost the same turbulent pattern of the heavens. 
Her fateful life and how she died is self-explanatory. 


For years, we had been in correspondence with the 
nuclear physicist Dr. Tomascheck (See Appendix). Accord- 
ing to him the grouping or “picture” of the planets abdut 
certain axes shows significant correspondence with earth- 
quakes, A “gestalt” factor is present It has been found that 
Jupiter is associated with the strongest of earthquakes in 
contrast to its astrological significance in human relation- 
ships. 

In my editorial dated 14 November, 1977 appearing 
in The Astrological Magazine, the January 1978 issue I 
predicted: “There will be a total lunar eclipse on Saturday, 
16 September, 1978, involving the Virgo-Pisces axis. There 
is a possibility of a major earthquake also, about the area 
of Iran.” The newspapers of 18 September, 1978 carried 
headlines of the earthquake in Iran which killed over 
10,000 people. The earthquake occurred on the night of 
16/17 September, 1978 resulting in huge loss of life and 
property. 


Astrology in Earthquakes Prediction 19 


An eclipse of the Moon had occurred. Jupiter and Mars are 
in square while the waxing Moon had just passed through 
an exact opposition with Mercury the previous day. 

In an editorial written on 15 November, 1989 which 
appeared in The Astrological Magazine, January 1991, I 
wrote: "Rahu, situated in Capricorn 24° 45' (Dhanishta 
constellation) at the beginning of the English year enters 
Sagittarius on 25 April, 1991, having conjoined Satum on 
21 January, 1991 in Capricorn 7° in the constellation of 
Uttarashadha. The implication of this particular conjunction 
in regard to world affairs will be discussed on a subse- 


80 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


quent occasion. Jupiter-Mars opposition (1 February, 
1990), Saturn-Mars conjunction (28 February, 1990) and 
Jupiter-Satum opposition (14 July, 1990) are capable of 
triggering earthquakes in earthquake-prone areas like Iran, 
Assam, China and Mexico, especially about the times of 
the new Moon and full Moon." Exactly as anticipated a 
massive earthquake rocked Iran on 21 June, 1990. The 
earthquake occurred on a Chaturdasi (Chart 14), just before 
new Moon. Mercury conjoined Moon on 21 June, 1990. 
The major planets Mars and Jupiter were in square. 


Rasi - 
21-6-1990 


Astrology in Earthquakes Prediction 81 


In October, 1989, earthquakes occurred in Los Angeles 
and China 1 had indicated these quakes in The Astrologi- 
cal Magazine, Annual (January) 1989 issue, while discuss- 
ing the trends for the year 1989: "Unusual weather condi- 
tions in certain states may cause loss of life and damage to 
property. An eanhquake is possible in California about 
August-September.” The quake occurred in October 1989 
which in seismological terms is remarkably correct, 
especially because of the fact that the return periods of 
large seismic events are of the order of few decades 
according to Dr. Arun Bapat of the CWPRS, Khadakwasla, 
Pune who wrote to me congratulating me on this accurate 
Prediction. In the same editorial under "China and the Far 
Fast," 1 wrote “A major natural disaster such as an earth- 
quake is likely somewhere near the province of Sinkiang 
about the time of the Jupiter-Satum opposition" The oppo- 
sition took place on 9 September, 1989 and the quake hit 
China in October. 1989. 


These predictions were based on astrological factors. 1 
would like to ask which seismologist in the whole history 
of seismology, not only in our country but anywhere in the 
world, came close to making such a prediction in spite of 
all the resources and funds being spent on this science. Yet 
a giant inferiority complex tightly holds back our thinkers 
from looking at the remarkable methods of earthquake- 
forecasts which Astrology offers. It is the tragedy of our 
times that our Government would rather see thousands and 
lens of thousands of people die than take recourse to As- 
trology. Nothing can be more ironic than the fact that in 
the country of its own origin, Astrology is not recognised 
for its true worth. 


82 Astrology m Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


There is no doubt that the causes of earthquakes lie 
outside the relationships that natural physical science deals 
with today. The planetary groupings can release the accu- 
mulated energy resulting in a quake. As Mr. Gulomanoy 
says: “The energy of the tectonic processes is very great. 
Imagine that tension appears and energy begins to accumu- 
late in some region of the earth. In the long run a moment 
comes when little is needed for an earthquake to begin. An 
earthquake may be triggered by changes in solar activity." 

Scientists should note that our earth, apart from being 
an inert mass, is also a living ofganism and that it is sensi- 
tive to the Sun's rhythms. If only our Universities and 
National Laboratories devote at least a meagre pan of their 
talents and resources to Astro-seismology, they can dis- 
cover simple mathematical methods based on ancient astro- 
logical guidelines which will enable them to forecast the 
occurrence of earthquakes and other similar natural cata- 
strophes so that precautions could be taken in advance to 
minimise human suffering. 

If only modern scientists could keep their minds 
open, the accumulated wisdom of Astrology could be of 
great assistance. 

The loss of life and damage to property are the chief 
features of a great earthquake. The death toll rises appall- 
ingly in a matter of minutes. While we cannot prevent this 
natural phenomenon, we can certainly endeavour to lessen 
the destruction by heeding the forecasts. 

Earthquakes occur because of the disturbances of 
earth's field-force. And these disturbances are brought 
about by the incessant motion of planets. 


Appendix 


86 Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes 


to the astrological teaching, which convinced me. 
Especially one occurrence gave the starting point to my 
thoughts. It was the following: I met — as a cause of the 
events of war — a colleague of mine who with his institute 
had moved from Vienna into the village as I had done 
from Munich and in the course of events we joined with 
our institutes in the same house. I was very surprised to 
learn that he was bom exactly the same day as I was, not 
far away (about 50 miles). We were both physicists; both 
Directors of large Institutes and worked on similar, but, not 
exactly the same fields. This event at this time more 
received in the subconscious — later became the starting 
point of my conversion as it were. 


I must confess that Astrology has given me an 
immense widening of inner horizon and I think it is one of 
the most important means to overcome materialism. 

You will perhaps be surprised to hear, that though my 
whole life has been devoted to discover the electro-mag- 
netic structure of matter and the atoms, yet I refuse to 
explain the astrological effects of the planets by an electro- 
magnetic action. I think that the planets in their orbits and 
the man in his life are parts of one infinite happening 
where all is linked together by one breathing principle. 

As to the outer events of my life, it may perhaps 
interest you in connection with my map, that I lost my 
father at six years of age. Nearly at the same time I lost 
more and more my eyesight on my right eye (which must 
have been disturbed already at birth), at ten (or 11 years) 
I underwent an operation of this eye and the lens was 
extracted. 1 am now blind on this eye, astrologically quite 
understandable. In 1918 I married and divorced in 1927. In 
this year I was marricd the second time (Uranus, Mars). 


A Great Physicist Becomes an Astrologer 


Sir, 1 was very glad to receive your kind letter dated 
30 September, 1948 and I thank you very much for send- 
ing me some past issues of The Astrological Magazine, 
which made a very interesting reading for me. 

1 am sorry for the delay in replying work at the 
laboratory has kept me from it. 

Perhaps, you arc intcresicd in ‘asnine how a Physi- 
cist has tumed to Astrology. As you see from my date of 
birth, it is atleast according to the western astrology, quite 
understandable. I am bom on 23 December, 1895, Oh, 
46m. pm. G.T. = Ih. 44m. 1.T. 49° O'N, 14° 29° E. Ura- 
nus exactly on the descendant seems quite- significant. It 
seems to me more a map for inner development than for 
outer success. 

As all western scientists of my age, I ignored and 
despised Astrology, embraced by the materialism of my 
time and my surroundings. But a strong philosophical 
training and inclination prevented me from accepting this 
materialism as the true way of science. I never lost the 
conviction that there must be a spiritual ground to all 
physical happening. 

The time was ripe when Pluto was transited by 
Uranus. This gave on the exact day a fundamental change 
in my outer life. The following transit of Uranus over 
Neptune led me to the knowledge of Astrology and its 
appreciation. It was the coincidence of planetary 
constellations and the events which they indicate according 


Appendix 87 


In the same year I became Assistant Professor, 1934 and 
Director of the Institute of Physics at Dresden, 1939 at 
Munich. I have written several books (a textbook has in 
German now 14 editions), in English 4 reprints and 18 
translated into Spanish and edited about 70 scientific 
papers. 1945, I lost my position in consequence of the 
marching-in of the Americans. It clipped severely my 
material resources, but gave me the possibility of studying 
Astrology without any other disturbance. Rahu conjunct 
Ascendant brought me new material possibilities here in 
England. 
I should be very glad to hear from you again, 


Surrey, England R. Tomaschek, Ph.D. 


