FROMHERE 

TO 

THERE 



An Astrologer s Guide to 
Astromapping 



Edited by 
Martin Davis 



this pdf have been saved as 300dpi with maximum quality 
and minimum mb. size using "luradocuments PDF compressor desktop" 
_OCR text recognition (copy-paste & search unabled) have been applied 
_ it was saved as PDF A so that it will not be altered or changed with time, 
still pages can be extracted as images to make another pdf 



Contents 

Preface 

Introduction 

1 

History 

Martin Davis 1 

2 

The Astro*Carto*Graphy Book of Maps 

Jim Lewis and Arielle Guttman 25 

3 

The Uses of Astromapping in Astrology 

Martin Davis 3 1 

4 

Relocation can be a Career Move 

Robert Currey 58 

5 

My Summer Vacation 

Maya White 77 

6 

Between Heaven and Earth: The Influence of Astrology on Earth 

Angel Z. Thompson 87 

7 

Reincarnation in Local Space & A*C*G Maps 

AT Mann 93 

8 

Looking at the World Geodetically 

Chris McRae 113 



9 
Would Relocation Change Your Life? 
Donna Cunningham 130 

10 

Jyotish Locality 

Dennis Flaherty 142 

11 

A Locality Tale 

Kathryn Cassidy 162 

12 

The Stars and Stripes 

Bernadette Brady 168 

13 

The Solar Return Astro*Carto*Graphy Map 

David Meadows 196 

14 

The Business of Place and The Place of Business 

Faye Cossar 203 

15 

Locality and the Question of the USA Birth Chart 

Dale O'Brien and Martin Davis 220 

16 

A History Lesson: The A*C*G, Geodetics and Local Space of the 

George W Bush Presidency 

Arielle Guttman 251 

Index 269 



Preface 



"And, at the round earth? s four imagined corners , blow your trumpets, 
angels." 

John Donne (1572-1631) 



The astromapping techniques of Astro*Carto*Graphy (A*C*G), Local 
Space (LS) and Geodetics have become widely available to all through 
their inclusion in contemporary astrological software. This is surely one 
of the most revolutionary developments of modern astrology, for, with 
their help, we now have the tools to identify significant earth locations 
and directions. Some call this an "archaic revival" as it is a modern 
equivalent of the ancient craft of earth divination. This development has 
been possible because of the speed and graphical capabilities of modern 
computers. It makes astromapping a perfect fit for this era of technology 
and information, and when the world is experienced as a 'global village 1 . 
Nowadays, we are often required to move due to family, professional or 
social necessities. Equally, we can expect people and events to come to 
us or at us from almost any location in the world. It becomes imperative 
to know our significant directions and global hot spots. Astromapping 
tools answer this need. Furthermore, these tools and techniques are no 
longer limited to the study of nations or world regions; they can now be 
applied to individual data for personal relocation information. This opens 
up a new potential for human development as we come to understand our 
connection with Mother Earth through the influences offered to us from 
her various earth locations and directions. Our birth charts no longer 
reflect isolated birth locations. With astromapping our horoscopes become 
the whole world and we become potential global citizens. 



Introduction 



I was delighted when I received my first Astro*Carto*Graphy map from 
Jim Lewis in the late 1970s, The lines - each with their own astrological 
symbolism - clearly matched much of what I had experienced roaming 
the planet in my travelling years. I, like many others, went back to Lewis 
to obtain maps for friends and family. Evenings were spent pouring over 
the lines and reading his detailed text from beautifully produced booklets. 

Under the spell of the maps and Lewis's lucid text, the essence of 
astrology expanded for me. Astrology's connection with earth location 
became evident: it was no longer limited to something vaguely 
psychological and out there in the sky; it was also right here where I 
stood, where I had travelled and where I longed to visit one day. My 
natal horoscope had metamorphosed from a chart limited in time into a 
world map describing qualities of my past, present and possible future, 
all in terms of location (space). 

Soon after this, I came across Michael Erlewine's articles on Local 
Space. By 1984, 1 was able to explore the technique using the program 
he had written for early Commodore computers. This was really magic! 
We now had a tool to describe the significance of earth directions in our 
lives, be it for our natal planets or any other object placed on earth or in 
the sky. 

In the mid 1 990s another mapping system, Geodetics , was brought 
to my attention. It came from the work of Canadian astrologer Chris 
McRae, who, by 1988, had worked out how to present it on a world map 
using the computers and software of that time. Geodetics represented a 
unique world horoscope, with the zodiacal signs wrapped around the 
earth itself. McRae showed how Geodetics could be employed to give 
meaning to both global events and personal relocation. I was impressed 
at how the Geodetic world map seemed to identify the varied cultural 
patterns we find around the world, as if they had arisen from the earth 
itself. 

By the early 1990s, it was clear that a great maturing in the 
astromapping field was under way. Computer power was all but exploding, 
allowing maps to be calculated quickly and with stunning graphics, 



xii From Here to There 

important books had been published, and, most of all, some of the finest 
astrologers and astrological minds had begun employing the astromapping 
techniques in their studies. There was a growing corpus of work that was 
notable for its richness and detail. It was, in a way, substantiating astrology 
itself, as specific locations could now be added to timings of events. 

By 1998, as my lecturing experience grew, I saw a need for a 
textbook to document the details of each of the locality techniques. I felt 
the book should become a central resource for students, augmenting the 
separate, varied sources I had found. The absence of such a book felt to 
me like a void that needed to be filled. I acted upon this and in 1999 my 
book, Astrolocality Astrology -A guide to what it is and how to use it, 
was published in Great Britain. 

Some years have passed since the publication of Astrolocality 
Astrology and the writing of this, my next book on mapping. In this time, 
astromapping techniques have achieved acceptance and become 
mainstream in astrological use. The techniques are routinely found in 
astrological books, magazines, workshops and conference lectures. They 
have become a requirement in mundane (world) studies and a great 
addition to other types of astrological enquiry. In other words, 
astromapping has arrived! 

Why this book? Yet again, I feel a void exists in contemporary 
astrological literature. It's time we pause to reflect upon what has happened 
since the use of astromapping became widespread. This reflection includes 
reviewing the history of the field (telling its story) and presenting a cross- 
section of examples from the work of the contemporary astrologers who 
employ astromapping today. To this end, this book is an anthology of 
astromapping examples. The word 'anthology', by definition, is a 
collection, and, sweetly, the derivation of the word from the Greek means, 
'flower gathering'. So here, kind reader, we offer a bouquet of locality 
flowers ! 



1 



History 



The Beginning 

What we know today as Locality Astrology started with the yearning of 
astrologers over the centuries to associate terrestrial location with the 
qualities of zodiacal signs. The first known efforts at this can be traced 
back to Babylonian and Assyrian tablets. 1 

The first known classical attempt, ascribing zodiacal rulerships to 
nations, is found in Marcus Manilius' work, Astronomica, written around 
the beginning of the Christian era. An early attempt that survives was by 
Claudius Ptolemy in the first to second centuries AD and published in his 
work Tetrabiblos. 1 Muslim astrologers of the ninth to twelfth centuries 
added to these attempts, most notably Al Biruni, writing in 1 029. Medieval 
astrologers followed, most borrowing heavily from the work of Ptolemy. 
Of note was the work of William Lilly who published in 1647. Further 
lists were produced by Raphael, Green, Sepharial and Charles Carter, 
each adding their insights to the correlation of zodiacal qualities with 
locations on Earth. 

Early Influences 

In the early twentieth century, works appear that, in hindsight, can be 
seen as inspirations for the mapping techniques that would follow. For 
example, there is Sepharial's work, The Geodetic Equivalent, published 
c. 1924, and Edward Johndro's book, The Earth in the Heavens, published 
in 1929, which was about calculating and using "ruling degrees of cities". 
In the introduction to his work, Johndro writes about investigating "the 
important problem of aiding the individual to find his place in the world" , 
and he concludes, "who among professional astrologers and students has 
not felt the need of coordinating the heavens and the earth?" 



2 From Here to There 

The First Maps 3 

The earliest locality maps that we would recognise as such were 
astronomical diagrams of eclipse paths over the Earth. Appearing in 
astrological magazines, it is possible that Charles Jayne 4 published the 
first one in 194 1. 5 

• In 1957-58, Donald Bradley, in American Astrology Digest, 
published a hand-plotted map showing the rising, setting and 
culminating lines of all the planets over the entire world for the 
1958 sidereal 6 ingress of the Sun into Capricorn. His transformation 
of this mundane 7 chart into a world map was probably a first. 

• In July 1962, Roy Firebrace, first president of the British 
Astrological Association and editor of Spica, the British siderealist 
journal, also published a hand-plotted map, this time of the Sun's 
ingress into sidereal Cancer. Though not a first, this further 
demonstrated the usefulness of astromaps in mundane studies. 

• In 1966, a computerised astromap created by programmer Gary 
Duncan was published in the Llewellyn Annual for that year. It 
was the first computer-generated map ever published. Again, the 
map was of a mundane (worldly) moment, affecting large numbers 
of people. 

• Also in 1966, Cyril Fagan (a siderealist) writing in his Solunars 

column of American Astrology magazine described the 
mathematics and interpretive methods that were to become so 
important in Astro*Carto*Graphy. Though he didn't include an 
actual map, he spoke of the case study of a young woman who 
could improve her life by moving to locations where benefic rather 
than malefic planets were angular. 

The Stage is Set: Jim Lewis 

In 1969 Jim Lewis comes into this narrative. His work was to become a 
key contribution to astromapping. That year Lewis joined the Personal 
Service department of American Astrology. There, he became acquainted 
with the mundane work of Bradley and Fagan, and especially their 
emphasis on the importance of angularity in charts and maps. 



History 3 

The Big Leap 

At this point, the big leap occurred in the development of astromapping 
techniques. Jim Lewis recognised and seized upon the potential of 
astromapping as the best tool to use in his consultations. He began offering 
natal A*C*G maps to his clients, arduously drawing each one by hand. 

Along with this, and as a necessity of his consulting service, Lewis 
developed a complete interpretive system, using both the natures of 
planetary energies themselves and feedback from his clients on their 
relocating experiences. 

Though Lewis was not the inventor of the mapping approach, he 
was certainly the first to develop a complete system of interpretation for 
it, transforming a natal chart into a world map of rising, setting culminating 
and anti-culminating lines. This had not been done before in natal 
astrology. It was a true first. 

In my book, Astrolocality Astrology *, 9 I note that his work brings 
space into our usual time-oriented astrological perspective, thereby better 
matching the modern view of existence as a space-time continuum. I 
also point out that his system strengthens astrology itself, emphatically 
showing us the connection of planetary energies and influences directly 
upon the earth, where we live and roam. 

A*C*G Introduced to the Public 

• In 1 975 , Lewis approached Gregg Howe of Astro Numeric Service 
(ANS) ,0 "to automate the production of A*C*G maps". ANS 
successfully employed a breakthrough combination of hardware 
and software (especially for the computers of the time) to create 
plotted A*C*G maps. With this setup there was now a precise map, 
at an affordable price, ready to offer to the wider public. 

• In 1976 Lewis published a 44-page booklet entitled 
Astro *Carto *Graphy. The booklet was "dedicated to the astrologers 
who pioneered understanding of planetary influence, and 
particularly to the late Donald A. Bradley". It introduced the 
Astro*Carto*Graphy name itself, suggested how to use the map, 
defined the planetary symbols used, gave the general meanings 
for each of the four angular positions, and most importantly, it 



4 From Here to There 

contained interpretations for each planet at its angular positions. 
The booklet finished up with interpretive text for planetary 
crossings - which he later referred to as Parans." The interpretative 
texts were written with such insight that even today, decades later, 
they remain among the best available. It was this package of map 
and booklet that Lewis offered to the astrological community. 12 It 
was, and still may be, the single most revolutionary development 
in modern astrology. 

• In 1978, Jim Lewis received the Mark Edmund Jones award for 
his work on A*C*G. 

• In 1979, at the suggestion of the late, eminent British astrologer, 
Charles Harvey, Lewis published his first Sourcebook of Mundane 
Maps. This was to become an annual publication for the year ahead, 
which included the coming year's four ingresses, New and Full 
Moons and solar and lunar eclipses. Harvey called it a "totally 
indispensable publication". 13 

The Stage is Set: Michael Erlewine 

In the early 1970's another astrologer, Michael Erlewine, began to 
investigate the spatial side of things to see how it could be brought into 
astrological practice. Erlewine, who is also a musician, computer 
programmer and businessman, was influenced by the 'whole system' 
writing of Edward Johndro and by his mentor, Charles Jayne. Together, 
their view was that the three great co-ordinate systems comprising our 
natal charts, i.e., Ecliptic, Horizon and Equatorial, be studied separately 
as different reality views. 14 Jayne also felt the Horizon system was so 
important that it should be studied around its entire plane and not just at 
the points that intersect the Ecliptic to give us the ascendant and 
descendant of our natal charts, 15 

Initially spurred on by the desire to better understand house systems, 
Erlewine began working with sky maps. Laying out his natal horizon 
system on an equatorial star map allowed him to identify the chart's 
sensitive points (e.g., house cusps, ascendant, descendant, vertex etc., as 
well as the planets) etched in the sky. As the result of what he called "a 
grace", Erlewine came to see that the sky map was a reflection of the 



History 5 

map of the earth - or vice versa. He observed "that heaven and earth are 
interchangeable, or in the last analysis one living entity - a single whole" . 
Further natal investigations utilizing the Horizon co-ordinate system 
with both the earth and sky perspectives led him to what he called the 
Local Space chart, "where every object in the universe, celestial and 
mundane, has an equal and valid position." 16 Erlewine's first steps in Local 
Space (LS) were similar to Lewis' in as much as they both had to rely on 
hand drawn maps. In an email to me, Erlewine writes, "I originally was 
doing Local Space lines on a hand-held calculator. It could take me an 
entire day to plot the basics of a LS map that can be now done in seconds. 
I don't think folks have any idea of what it was like to have none of these 
tools. [For example] I had to design and print my own heliocentric 
ephemeris in order to study that." Here's a timeline of some of these 
developments: 

• 1975 - Michael Erlewine published The Sun Is Shining: Helio 
Ephemeris 1653-2050. This is astrology's first ephemeris from a 
Sun-centred perspective. 

• 1977 - Astrophysical Directions was published. This book, co- 
authored by Michael and Margaret Erlewine, introduced astrologers 
to the major co-ordinate systems used in astrology. It is a detailed 
catalogue of deep space objects of all kinds, and it delineates the 
methods for astrologers to plot their natal charts on sky maps. To 
this day, it is the only work of its kind. 

The First Astrology Programs for Personal Computers 

• In 1977, Michael Erlewine released the first astrology programs 
for personal computers 17 (including one for LS). Thus, we can say 
that in 1977 a new era in astrology had begun. Initially loaded 
from cassette tapes (and later floppy disks), the programs performed 
accurate calculations more quickly than possible by hand. In 1978 
Erlewine founded Matrix Software to sell his programs. 18 A few 
years later, in 1980, he was to publish The Manual of Computer 
Programming for Astrologers. This innovative work provided the 
routines necessary to calculate planetary positions. Some 



6 From Here to There 

astrologers credit this work as having started them in the computer 
programming field. 

Local Space Introduced to the Public 

• 1977 - Local Space was introduced to the public when Michael 
Erlewine's article, The Astrology of Local Space', was first 
published in Charles Jayne's Cosmology bulletin #6. Soon 
afterwards Erlewine made calculator routines available for other 
astrologers to discover their own Local Space directions. It must 
be emphasised here that this work was about as complete a one- 
man project as could be. Inspired, and on what he called "a voyage 
of discovery" , he had conceived the idea of what might be possible 
from the horizon perspective, then programmed the calculator 
routines to get the necessary information and finally, identified 
the significant indicators within it. 

• 1978 - Erlewine published another article on Local Space in the 
Circle Books Astrological Calendar. In that article more was 
revealed about his own experiences and insights accompanying 
the development of Local Space. 

Local Space: The Word Spreads Slowly 

• The dissemination of Local Space into the astrological community 
was much slower than that of the technique of A*C*G There was 
no specific LS booklet or finished product that could be offered 
directly to the public. Rather, it remained with a small group of 
enthused technical astrologers. Erlewine had discovered that the 
tracing of Local Space directional lines onto world maps uncannily 
revealed the actual routes individuals had taken on their travels. 
The technique gave individuals their significant directions, just as 
A*C*G yielded their significant locations. With Local Space, 
astrology now had the means to re-create the magical circles of 
the mystery traditions, uncovering one's personal Feng 
Shui? 9 directional patterns in the home, the community and around 
the entire globe. 



History 



Jim Lewis' Work Goes on: Cyclo*Carto*Graphy (C*C*G), 1982 

• In 1982 Jim Lewis published a 55-page booklet on 
Cyclo*Carto*Graphy. C*C*G is the mapping of one's transits and 

90 

progressions onto the A*C*G map. In the booklet, each transiting 
or progressed planet is described in terms of its rate of motion 
across the map, the duration of its influence and, importantly, the 
nature of its effects. As in his first booklet, the writing is informative 
and unsurpassed to this day. Lewis presented the C*C*G planets 
to clients on a transparent overlay made to fit over their natal 
A*C*G map. This way the original factors of the A*C*G map 
could be visually compared with the temporary influences of transits 
and progressions. With this new development, Lewis brought time 
or, more aptly, 'an unfolding' into the static A*C*G map. Clients 
were encouraged to obtain overlays periodically to better follow 
the changing patterns and influences. C*C*G was another masterly 
development by Lewis and a first of its kind. We can say he 
completed the major part of the technical side of his work with the 
publication of this booklet. 

• Through the rest of the 1 980s, Jim Lewis wrote and lectured widely 
on A*C*G The maps and booklets sold very well, bringing more 
and more recognition to the technique, ever widening the sphere 
of those who felt its impact. Meanwhile, at the Heart Centre in Big 
Rapids, Michigan, Michael Erlewine held summer gatherings on 
Local Space and other cosmological issues, which attracted a small 
but growing group of excellent astrologers. 21 As the tools of A*C*G 
and Local Space were being discovered by an increasing number 
of astrologers, Lewis, Erlewine and their colleagues continued 
refining their work. 



1984 



99 

In 1 984, Mundane Astrology was published in Great Britain. This 
book, written by historian Michael Baigent ~ and astrologers 
Nicholas Campion and Charles Harvey (1940-2000), 24 was the first 
of its kind, presenting a comprehensive survey of the mundane 
field. Of importance to the astromapping perspective are chapters 



1985 



1986 



From Here to There 

10 and 1 l,on Astro*Carto*Graphy and Earth Zodiacs, respectively, 
both written by Charles Harvey. Harvey establishes the tool of 
A*C*G as vital to mundane investigations. He states that A*C*G's 
ability to point out where a particular configuration may manifest 
or find expression "transforms" things such that mundane forecasts 
no longer need be "vague, unfocused and lacking any real 

9S 

conviction." His chapter on Earth Zodiacs is well researched, and 
is a standard-setting survey of the field. 

Neil F. Michelson (193 1-1990) 26 of Astro Computing Services, 27 
began offering "Astrolocality Maps" in 1984. These geographic 
maps of angularity (similar to A*C*G maps) were notable for their 
inclusion of aspect lines (60, 90 or 120 degrees) from the Midheaven 

9 S 

or Ascending lines. Locality maps were now available to 
astrologers from two sources: Gregg Howe's Astro Numeric Service 
and Michelson's Astro Computing Services. 29 



In 1985, Lewis inaugurated a program to create a network of 
A*C*G practitioners. His idea was to offer training and certification 
to a core group who would be proficient in the application of his 
techniques. To this purpose, with Jeff Jawer assisting, he held the 
first training and certification seminar in San Francisco that year; A 
major part of the certification was to sit an exam. Some passed it, 
successfully graduating as the first certified A*C*G 

19 

practitioners; Maya del Mar (1928-2006) held Lewis' certification 
#1 from the seminar. 



Lewis, this time with Ariel Guttman assisting, held the second 

A*C*G certification seminar in Laguna Beach California; more 

astrologers were certified and ideas for new projects came from 

■J -J 
this focused meeting of minds." 

So too, the advance of technology was offering new opportunities. 
Data was being gathered that correlated planetary positions with 



1987 



History 9 

location. Blue Star, Matrix's DOS program (designed by Michael 
Erlewine with a small group of colleagues), Nova from Astrolabe 
(designed by the noted astrologer, Robert Hand) and other DOS 
astrology programs 34 were available to run on IBM's XT computer, 
allowing more individuals to do their own research with speed and 
accuracy. 



In 1987 Jim Lewis completed the text for a computerised 
astrological report to be made available to the public. Customers 
could now purchase his map with the informative booklet and get 
his computerised interpretive text for three locations of choice. As 
with his previous writing, the text, to this day, remains outstanding 
for its insight into planetary effects and influences on Earth. Soon 
after, a version of his text was offered to the general public as a 
DOS program. It continues to be available today in Windows, as 
Matrix Software's 'Astro*Carto*Graphy Explained' report-writing 
program. 35 



1988-1989 



Many of the fruits of the activity of the 1980s seemed to burst 
upon the astrological landscape in 1988-9, with four significant 
events: 

1 . The publication of The Astro *Carto *Graphy Book of Maps, by 
Jim Lewis and Arielle Guttman was a milestone almost on a par 
with the publication of Jim's original material in 1976. The book 
was comprised of the charts, the corresponding A*C*G maps and 
interpretive text for 136 famous people. It clearly and definitely 
showed the correlation of planetary lines (location) with significant 
events in the subjects' lives and their personal history. With this 
book, those who had not heard Jim's lectures could see the power 
of A*C*G. In one swoop, the book showcased A*C*G for its 
modern and revolutionary approach, it showed our connections to 
cosmic rhythms in space as well as time, and it was impressive as 
evidence for the effectiveness of astrology itself. TheA*C*G Book 



10 From Here to There 

of Maps set a standard in the superb presentation of its maps, the 
high quality of the writing, the care taken with the data' and its 
helpful appendices. It was truly an impact book. Guttman reports 
that it was a great sadness to Lewis that the book was never reprinted 
after the initial print run of about 3000 copies quickly sold out; 

2. Hi Res Astro Maps. In 1988 Michael Erlewine completed 

in 

programming the first DOS mapping program, Hi Res Astro Maps, 
offering it to the astrological public that year. This was quite a feat 
considering the technical limitations of the time. With it, users could 
display and print A*C*G and LS natal or event maps on their 
desktop computers. The program included C*C*G lines of transit 
and progression for user-selected dates, and, to top it off, Michael 
had incorporated his database of deep space objects and cosmic 
points (from his book, Astrophysical Directions) to plot on both 
Earth and sky maps. Technically, for its time, the program was a 
tour de force JYtc\mic?\ features aside, the availability of Hi Res 
Astro Maps to all astrologers represented a significant turning point 
in the history of the field - though its significance might not have 
been apparent right away. For the first time, astrologers could 
independently create their own maps - as many as they might want 
- to use for their projects and general research. Though Jim and 
Michael still led the way, exploration of the field was now open to 
all. An example of this was my own experience with the program. 
Within the first hour of receiving it, intuitively, I set out to see 
where on earth my Local Space lines of direction and A*C*G lines 
of location would intersect when mapped together. I was stunned 
to see how meaningful those places of crossing had been in my 
life! Soon afterwards, I named the intersections Destiny Points, or 
more technically, Bi-Parans (crossings from two systems). In 1989 
I published this finding as part of an article entitled, 'Local Space 
Astrology' 40 , where I first proposed the mixing of LS and A*C*G 
information on one map. 

3. Planets in Locality, 4 * Steve Cozzi's book on Local Space, was 
published in 1 988. It was the first book offered to the public on the 
technique. Selling well, it took Michael Erlewine's system into 



1990 



History 1 1 

wider public awareness. Cozzi is well versed in the esoteric 
traditions of the world. Bringing this perspective into the book, he 
emphasised what could be seen as the system's magical or near 
magical properties. Cozzi showed how the LS chart could be used 
as a Feng Shui type tool to find preferred directions in one's home, 
community or city. Using the LS chart this way, one creates what 
he called a "Geomantic Compass". Also of interest, he illustrated 
how a city's "birth" or incorporation time could be turned into a 
LS map for itself, thereby pointing out the significance of 
neighbourhoods according to its own inherent planetary energies. 
The book also includes discussions of other systems that are not 
specific to Local Space, such as esoteric grid systems, a secret 
geometry of the pyramids and Jose Arguelles' Holonomic model 
of knowledge. 42 

4. The Geodetic World Map. Also in 1 988, Chris McRae, published 
her book on Geodetics, The Geodetic World Map , 43 McRae 
describes herself as a curious person who tries "to probe the secrets 
of astrology". Her interest in correlating astrological signs with 
earth location and earth events was rewarded when she came across 
a reprint of Sepharial's little book, The Geodetic Equivalent. 44 
Working with a calculator and drawing by hand, she created a world 
map for the system and then began to explore it for events of all 
types. She found meaningful applications in client relocation 
studies, Geodetic identities of nations, weather prediction, and 
global upheavals, especially for great disasters such as volcanic 
eruptions, earthquakes, fires, storms and the like. 

Finally, in 1988, the technological advances of the time 
allowed her to computerise her Geodetic material. Using both 
Digicomp DR-70 and IBM XT computers, along with Michael 
Erlewine's Blue Star calculation program, she was able to create 
an accurate geodetic world map and thereby publish her work. 



At the beginning of the last decade of the twentieth century, Charles 
Harvey teamed up with the British astrologer Michael Harding, to 



1 2 From Here to There 

write a book on what they believed to be the most important 
contemporary advances in astrology. The book, Working with 
^^ro/ogy, 45 included a full description of A*C*G, as one of the 
three most important advances of that time - the other two were 
Harmonics and Midpoints. 



1991 



1992 



Edith Hathaway's book, Navigating by the Stars, was published in 
199 1. 46 In the chapter entitled 'Where on Earth?' she presents 
A*C*G and then includes the A*C*G maps of many interesting 
cases. Jim Lewis liked this work. In a blurb on the first page, he 
wrote: "For those who have never attended one of my seminars, 
this book may be the next best thing; for those who have, Edith 
Hathaway has added depth and insight to standard A*C*G 
interpretation techniques, plus suggesting some new ones!" 

Also in 1991, Matrix Software added, Quick* Maps (a mapping 
module) to its DOS program, Blue Star. Quick*Maps was endorsed 
by Jim Lewis who allowed his trademarked name of A*C*G* to 
be used on the 'hi resolution' printed output. 



In 1992, the astrological community honoured Lewis by awarding 
him the Regulus Prize 47 for his excellence in research and 
innovation. Jim also received the Matrix Pioneer Award for 
outstanding contributions in the area of marketing astrology to the 
general public. 

In 1 992 the first full-featured Windows astrology programs became 
available. From the locality perspective, this was to be great news. 
The visual Windows environment was ideal for the display of maps 
and for quality printing. Solar Fire from Esoteric Technologies 
and AstrolDeluxe for Windows from Halloran Software hit the 
market first, followed in 1993, by Matrix software's WinStar (which 
included a full-featured mapping module) and then good products 
from other companies followed. Soon, Solar Fire (Solar Maps) 



1995 



History 13 

and others joined Win*Star (Win*Maps), with innovative mapping 
modules integrated into their offerings. From this time on 
astrologers had the astromapping tools on their computers and 
therefore, at their fingertips. With Windows and fast computers, 
the technology had caught up and could now deliver high quality 
astromapping tools for use in a wide variety of astrological studies. 

Also in 1992, Robert Currey 48 made improvements in the 'official' 
A*C*G maps sold from his London-based business, Equinox. 49 
The Nodal and Chiron lines were now added to the maps, as were 
coloured planetary lines and planetary glyphs. 



Lewis passes away. On the 2 1 st of February 1995, Jim Lewis died, 
his life cut short at age 54 by a brain tumour. The astrological 
community mourned his passing. Robert Currey summed it up well: 
"God, we astrologers were lucky to have a mind like his among us 
and by heaven, we will miss him." 

CONTINUUM is founded. As Lewis' life was slipping away, he 
arranged his affairs and dictated his last wishes to astrologer Angel 
Thompson. At his direction she became the sole trustee for all of 
his intellectual properties, a role she maintains to this day. After 
his passing, Thompson pondered how to best fulfil the promises 
Lewis had made to those he trained and tested. On the 1 st of August 
1995, she, along with Karen McCauley and a small group of friends, 
brainstormed ideas around the suggestion that a network should 
be created to maintain and support the A*C*G practitioners that 
Jim Lewis fostered. They came up with CONTINUUM as the 
name and thus, the organisation was born. 50 As a mission statement, 
CONTINUUM setoutto: 1) transcribe Jim's 1993 training seminar, 

2) create a curriculum to help those involved in independent study, 

3) reconstruct Lewis' original certification test, 4) offer A*C*G 
proficiency testing and certification and, 5) maintain a list of 
certified practitioners on their website. 



14 From Here to There 

More on CONTINUUM. Since that time in 1995, CONTINUUM 
has been a great success, supporting the field with donations, 
scholarships and grants. Its website has become the focal point for 
spatial astrology, 51 identifying the network of A*C*G practitioners, 
providing proficiency testing, certification and copyright protection. 
A fall description of activities can be found on their website: 
http ://continuumacg .net . Presently, CONTINUUM remains under 
the direction of Angel Thompson, with the administrative help of 
Karen McCauley, and the cyberspace talents of noted astrologer, 
Donna H. Cunningham, who is the designer and web master of 
the current CONTINUUM website. 

CT 

• Also in 1995, Esoteric Technologies of Australia ~ launched its 

stand-alone mapping program, Solar Maps. The program had 
animated C*C*G capability and it included Local Space and 
Geodetic features. 



1997 



Dennis Flaherty's article entitled, 'Jyotish Locality', was published 
in the 1 997 August- September issue of The Mountain Astrologer. 
Flaherty 54 showed how Vedic astrologers could use the locational 
techniques just as easily as Western practitioners. He also pointed 
out that various Vedic tools - such as preferred lines of angularity 
for each planet - could "enrich" Western interpretations. 

In 1 997 The Psychology of Astro *Carto *Graphy 55 was published. 
Written by Kenneth Irving with Jim Lewis' notes, it is the definitive 
work of Lewis' approach, especially from the perspective of depth 
psychology. Erin Sullivan edited the work and, more importantly, 
was the active intermediary in it all: getting Jim to release his notes 
(as his health deteriorated), convincing the publisher to take the 
proposed book and encouraging Irving to take on the task of writing 
it all down, blending Lewis' material with his own. 56 The book 
ably explains the essence of A*C*G; it provides fundamental 
descriptions of planetary energies in relation to the earth and, it 
presents important historical and technical notes. 



History 15 



1998 



1999 



In 1998 (and 1999) Robert Hand and Arielle Guttman held 
professional astromapping seminars in Santa Fe, NM. At these 
seminars they applied the traditional astrology Hand had translated 
from Latin texts to A*C*G and locational astrology in general. 

Sasha Fenton's book Astrology on the Move was published in this 
year also. 59 Fenton is an experienced astrologer and best-selling 
UK author of popular books on subjects such as Sun sign astrology, 
tarot and palmistry. Here she turned her attention to locality and in 
doing so, brought it to a wider, non-astrological public. The book 
features her interpretations. 

In 1998, David Meadows' book, Where in the World with 
Astro*Carto*Graphy 60 was published. This is a big book. It is a 
detailed, technical analysis of almost every imaginable A*C*G & 
C*C*G technique. The book is notable for its presentation of 
A*C*G and C*C*G for Solar Returns. Using an A*C*G map for a 
Solar Return (SR) chart solves a few problems. One is that you don't 
have to worry about which house system to use, and, there is no longer 
the issue of whether to relocate a SR to the current location of the 
native, or to keep the birth location. Meadows comments that Jim Lewis 
did approve the use of A*C*G maps for Solar Returns, and that 
both he and Lewis used precession correction 61 in the calculation. 



In 1999, Erin Sullivan published Where In the World? 62 Her book 
is comprised of the transcripts from two seminars given in London 
in 1997 at the Centre for Psychological Astrology. Part one of the 
book covers the essentials of A*C*G and part two relocation. With 
this book, Sullivan adds her knowledgeable voice to the literature 
of the field. 

In 1999, my book, Astrolocality Astrology was published. 63 1 took 
on the project because I felt that a 'how to' textbook was needed 
for the techniques of A*C*G, Local Space and Geodetics. 
Furthermore, I proposed they be seen and utilised as one synergistic 



1 6 From Here to There 

system of locality, each bringing their different perspectives to the 
same issue of the space around us. For A*C*G, I approached the 
development of the map from a sky perspective, with planetary 
energies "imprinting" the earth. For Local Space I gave detailed 
procedures for using LS charts and maps - along with A*C*G - to 
pinpoint significant Earth locations. For Geodetics, I added some new 
examples and proposed investigating something original, the resonant 
location, where the natal and Geodetic charts match one another. 
The appendices of Astrolocality Astrology included new A*C*G 
interpretations by Jeff Jawer, Local Space interpretations by Angel 
Thompson and myself, and an obituary of Jim Lewis by Robert Currey . 
Feedback has been encouraging. The book won the British Spica 
award in the year 2000, for the best astrology book of the previous 
year. And, I was very pleased when Michael Erlewine wrote in an 
email to me that I had "accurately presented the concepts and the 
techniques (of Local Space) in a clear, concise, and meaningful way." 64 



2002 



2004 



2006 



Jim Lewis' posthumous book, Peter Pan in Midlife and the Midlife 
of America: A Personal and Collective Memoir, was edited and 
offered by Erin Sullivan. 65 This material was very close to Lewis' 
heart, and he was disappointed not to see it published in his lifetime. 
The book is philosophical and analytical and not directly related 
to locality. 



In 2004, Robert Currey added Chiron interpretations 66 to the A*C*G 
booklet he offers from Equinox in London 67 This booklet is only avai lable 
with the authorised A*C*G maps he provides, and not sold 
separately. In spite of this, in terms of numbers, it can be considered 
a best seller, on a par with any of the popular Sun-sign books. 



In 2006, Matrix Software launched its stand-alone mapping 
program, Horizons. Along with many features it has the first 



History 1 7 

published interpretative Local Space text written by Michael 
Erlewine. John Townley wrote the A*C*G interpretive text, 
bringing his experienced voice to the field. 



2007 



• As I write this, I hope this work, From Here to There, will be a 
significant addition to the locality field. For a starter it includes 
this first complete history of all the techniques in one integrated 
timeline. It then offers the reader a variety of astromapping 
examples from a group of experienced astrologers. This should be 
both an inspiration and guide to others for utilising the techniques. 

What's Coming Next for Astromapping? 

• Computer advances should allow us to work with three-dimensional 
images, and offer evermore clarity, topographical accuracy, speed 
and beauty of presentation. 

• We should be able to merge astromapping lines with the detailed 
maps of Google Earth. We would then be able to identify 
neighbourhoods, city streets, or even a specific house for our 
relocation studies. 

• We can expect the development of effective mapping procedures 
for handling the relocation of couples and whole families. 69 

• All mapping programs should have an inbuilt filing system that 
will save maps - as well as charts and any notes - storing them 
under a person's or project name. This would be the workbook 
approach in saving maps for retrieval and future use. 

• Perhaps it will be possible to create a database that includes locality 
interpretations written by different astrologers. I realise there are 
copyright issues here but let's not have this block our thinking 
about the possibility. Some might like to see Lewis' interpretations 
as he first wrote them, next to those with his depth psychology 
slant, next to those of others. 70 The same could be said for 
interpretations now available for Local Space from Erlewine and 



I 8 From Here to There 

others too. We all hold pieces of the puzzle of understanding and 
though some may hold larger pieces, all can help in fitting things 

7 1 

together. As Goethe said, "Only everyone can know the truth". 

• The arrival of a developed "Internet2", 72 with its advanced 
networking and research capabilities could play a role in locality 
research one day that can only begin to be imagined right now. For 
example, a research program could be created that would list and 
compare information from maps stored at different information 
nodes around the globe. With such a program we should be able to 
investigate our geographical patterns more closely and see our earth 
connections in a new light. 

• As good as our mapping tools become, perhaps one day better 
maps will no longer be the real purpose of things. Rather, we may 
discover that we ourselves are being changed by a new attention 
to Mother Earth, that they bring to us. Though it is said, "the map 
is not the territory", ~ perhaps through changed consciousness, the 
maps can lead us to new and magical connections with it. 



NOTES 

i* For an account of the history of earth zodiacs see Appendix 9, The Book 
of World Horoscopes, by Nicholas Campion, The Wessex Astrologer, 
2004. 

2. ibid page 455. 

3. For a complete narrative of the developments leading to A*C*G, see 
Ken living's website: http://www.planetlines.com/acgbook/intro.htm and/ 
or his book, co-authored by Jim Lewis, The Psychology of 
Astw*Carto* Graphy, Arkana, 1997. 

4. Jayne (1911-1985) was a brilliant technical astrologer. 

5. Astrologer Bill Meridian attributes the first published eclipse-path maps 
to Jayne. 

6. In the Sidereal Zodiac the twelve signs are based upon the constellations 
of fixed stars. Though usually only used by Eastern astrologers, Bradley 
and Firebrace employed it in their calculations, rather than the Western 
Tropical system, which starts at the vernal point. 

7. Mundane: From the Latin mundus meaning worldly or profane. In 
astrology it refers to studies of world, regional or national events, including 
large groups of people. 



History 19 

8. Lewis rejected their siderealist approach for his own astrological work, 
but he pointed out that A*C*G worked in both the Tropical and Sidereal 
systems. 

9. The Wessex Astrologer Ltd, 1999, UK. 

10. See Gregg Howe's website for Astro Numeric Service, http:// 
www .astronumerics .com/index .html 

Prior to 1973, many astrologers used the ANS computational 
services of Gregg's father, Horace A. Howe, who, among other 
accomplishments, was a noted physicist and computer programmer. In 
an email to me, Gregg writes: "I came to ANS in 1973 when my father 
(Horace A. Howe) died in a vehicle accident. Jim Lewis did not approach 
ANS to do his work until two years later. At first, Jim just wanted planetary 
positions, which he would then plug into his own program to produce the 
maps. Then he asked us to make a map-making program when his 
programmer left him taking the program too! It took us (my staff 
programmer and myself) only about two weeks to build the program which 
is, essentially, the same as that used today. Don't ask me how we did 
things so quickly in those days... youthful energy, I guess!" In another 
email, Howe wrote to me about the technical side of this event: "When 
Jim Lewis came to Astro Numeric Service in 1975 to automate the 
production of ACG maps, we had just converted our entire calculation 
service from an IBM 360 (FORTRAN) to a Data General Mini-computer 
with all of 16K bytes of memory! The computer language was FORTH, 
which I had learned while working at Kitt Peak Observatory in Arizona. 
FORTH went on to become a fairly successful language in imbedded, 
laboratory automation, particularly in scientific instrumentation. And yes, 
the maps were actually drawn with a Tektronix desktop pen plotter for 
many years". 

11. According to Rob Hand, the word 'Paran' was coined by Cyril Fagan as 
a shortening of 'paranatellon', a Greek word meaning 'co-transit'. The 
term first appeared in American Astrology magazine. 

12. I believe every serious student of A*C*G should obtain the booklet which 
is filled with Lewis' wisdom. This package of A*C*G map and booklet is 
still offered today at three main locations: 

• In North America, Gregg Howe, Astro Numeric Service, Oregon, 
http ://w ww .astronumerics .com 

In the French and German languages, Claude Weiss, Astrodata 
AG Switzerland, http://www.astrodata.com 

• In the UK - and the rest of the world - Robert Currey, Equinox, 
London, http://www .equinoxastrology .com 

13. Mundane Astrology by Baigent, Campion and Harvey, 1984, Aquarian 
Press, UK. Page 282. 



20 From Here to There 

14. Johndro probably was the first modern astrologer to study the differences 
between the Ecliptic and Equatorial systems. Jayne emphasised the 
importance of the Horizon system and suggested it be added to any whole 
system investigations. 

15. Erlewine writes: "The actual distinctions between these different systems 
of coordinates are lost to most of us, and they are jumbled together to 
form some kind of Zodiac pie." See Astro locality Astrology, Appendix 
Four, 'Two Articles By Michael Erlewine', page 203. 

16. Ibid, page 213. 

17. The first hardwired, pre-programmed natal chart computer was introduced 
at the 1976 AFA Astrological convention. 

18. Along with Microsoft these are the two oldest software companies on the 
Internet still in existence. 

19. Feng Shui idiomatically means, 'perfect placement'. 

20. A Cyclo*Carto*Graphy map always refers back to an original, fixed-line 
A*C*G map. The C*C*G map displays the moving, changing positions 
of transiting, progressed, and/or directed angular planetary lines at any 
given time. Jim Lewis wrote: "Astrology is comprised of two major 
dimensions - time and space, and it is the purpose of Cyclo*Carto*Graphy 
to add to the information about locations given in the Astro*Carto*Graphy 
map the vital information about when in time the potentials might be 
expected to manifest." (From the booklet that accompanies C*C*G 
overlays, 1982, Chapter 1) 

2 1 . Participants included: Dane Rudhyar, Michel Gauquelin, Charles Harvey, 
Charles Jayne, Robert Hand, Theodor Landschiedt, Noel Tyl, Roger Elliot, 
Geoffrey Dean, John Townley, Robert Schmidt, and scores of others. 

22. Mundane Astrology, by M. Baigent, N. Campion and C.Harvey, 1984, 
Aquarian Press, Great Britain. 

23. Michael Baigent is the author of many historical books, one of which is 
The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail (with Henry Lincoln and Richard 
Leigh), Penguin, NY. 

24. Both Campion and Harvey are past presidents of the British Astrological 
Association. 

25. Mundane Astrology, page 275 , Chapter 10. 

26. Neil Michelson's wife, Maria Simms, writes in an email: "Neil was born 
May 11, 1931, 5:34am CST, Chicago, IL. He died on May 15, 1990, at 
approximately 4:00am in San Diego." 

27. See: http://www.astrocom.com for their current products. Maria Simms 
writes in an email: 

"The original birth data for ACS is March 20, 1973, 1:30pm EST, White 
Plaines, NY." She then goes on to point out that Neil waited in line to 
register his business, noting the time his papers were handed over and 
stamped. It turned out that the moment was exactly at the Spring Equinox, 
so the Astro Computing Services business chart has Sun at Aries 00. 



History 21 

28. Jim Lewis rejected the addition of aspect lines to his A*C*G maps. Gregg 
Howe writes: "He (Lewis) saw their inclusion as a heresy because they 
violated his emphasis on strictly angular relationships to a new location." 
Others have pointed out that aspects should be calculated by Ecliptic 
ascension and not Equatorial degrees. My own experience is that aspect 
lines, especially squares, do 'work', showing locations of some tension 
for the native. Some aspect lines are always there within planets 
themselves. In my chart, for example, my natal Sun squares Mars. 
Wherever I have a Sun line it will always carry the tension of a square 
from Mars energy, and vice versa. In an email, Gregg Howe (of ANS) 
writes positively of his competitor's (ACS) locality map: "If only Jim 
lived now, he could appreciate ACS for their old-fashioned business ethics. 
They used a different name for the product, they produced their own 
map, and they computed the map differently." 

29. In an email to me, Gregg Howe adds a fascinating historical footnote 
about the rivalry of his father, Horace Gregg, founder of ANS, and 
Michelson (ACS). He writes: "In the early 70s I used to talk to my father 
about his budding business. He said he had several small competitors. 
But the only one he was concerned about was an IBM programmer in 
New York, whom he said "really knew what he was doing." This was, of 
course, Neil Michelson. During the mid-70s ACS (Michelson's service) 
and ANS had a mild "arms race" of astrological computations. Each 
wanted to make sure they had the most extensive set of services for every 
kind of astrological practice. Astrologers would come to either company 
with an original way of computing charts and, particularly if they had 
written a book, we would be eager to provide calculations in just the 
manner they wanted. I would say that the rivalry between ANS and ACS 
was great for astrology, and helped expand the market enormously. All 
this programming was expensive, of course, so when ANS became heavily 
involved with Astro*Carto*Graphy, we took a different tactic. To appeal 
to a broader, less technical audience, we felt it was important not to have 
dozens of different ways to compute the horoscope. So instead we started 
focusing on some basic, core calculations that most of our professional 
clients used, and that our new customers, largely attracted to astrology 
through Astro*Carto*Graphy, could easily grasp. This meant backing 
away from asteroids, Uranian planets, harmonics, and a host of other 
techniques, which, at the time seemed too technical to have broad appeal." 

30. A friend of Lewis comments: "Jim did not like to do much personal 
counselling with A*C*G and this was partly why he set up seminars to 
train interpreters." 

31. The 1985 seminar was facilitated by Jim Lewis and Jeff Jawer. Jawer can 
be reached at: jjawer@stariq.com . 

32. Arielle Guttman was in the first group to be certified. In an email, she 
writes: "In 1985 I received an invitation to the very first Certification 



22 From Here to There 

Seminar in A*C*G given by Jim in San Francisco. I signed up 
immediately, took the exam and became certified (that exam was not 
easy!) I hold Certificate of Proficiency #9 given to me by Jim in March 
1985." 

33. One such idea took form three years later as The ACQ Book of Maps. 

34. See Wikipedia, Astrology and Computers: http : //en . wikipedi a .or g/ wiki/ 
Astrology andcomputers 

35. Matrix Software, Big Rapids, Michigan, 
http:// www. astrologysoftware.com 

36 . The Astro* Car to* Graphy Book ofMaps:How 136 Famous People Found 
Their Place, by J Lewis and Arielle Guttman, 1989, Llewellyn 
Publications, Minnesota, USA. 

37. All data sets were categorised by what was called, at that time, 'The 
Rodden Code of Accuracy'. 

38. The book was later translated into German (Astro Data 1990) and French 
(Editions du Rocher, Jean-Paul Bertrand, ed., 1994). It is the only 
astrological locality book translated into two other languages to date. 

39. Matrix Software, Big Rapids, MI, USA. 

40. The British Astrological Journal, November/December 1989, Vol. XXXI 
No .6. 

41. Planets in Locality, by Steve Cozzi, Llewellyn Publications, 1988, St 
Paul, MN, USA. Later reprinted in 1997, American Federation of 
Astrologers, Inc., Tempe, AZ. 

42. See appendix B of Planets in Locality. 

43. The Geodetic World Map, by Chris McRae, 1988, American Federation 
of Astrologers, Inc., Tempe, AZ, USA. 

44. First published c.1924, W. Foulsham, UK. Reprinted by The American 
Federation of Astrologers in 1972. Sepharial was Dr Walter Gorn-Old, 
(1864-1929). 

45. Working with Astrology, by Harding and Harvey, Arkana, 1990, London. 

46. Navigating by the Stars, by Edith Hathaway, 1991, Llewellyn Publications, 
MN,USA. 

47. United Astrology Conference, Washington, DC. 

48. http://www.equinoxastrology.com/RobertCurrey.htm 

49. http://www.astrocartofiraphy.co.uk/ 

50. In addition to Angel Thompson, the founding group included: Karen 
McCauley, Lawrence Walters, Arielle Guttman, Madalyn Hillis, Donna 
Cunningham, Ken Irving, Erin Sullivan and Gregg Howe. 

5 1 . Thompson is well known for her writing and lecturing on Local Space 
and her support for spatial astrology. 

52. For information on Donna Cunningham and her work, see: http:// 
www .moonmavenpublications .com/bio .html 

53. http://www.esotech.com.au/products/solarmaps.html 



History 23 

54. See the website for his organisation, Northwest Institute of Vedic Sciences. 
http ://w ww .vedicsciences .com/ 

55. The Psychology of Astro* Carto*Graphy, by Jim Lewis and Kenneth 
Irving, 1 997, Arkana, London. 

56. In the 'Author's Preface', Irving writes: "We would not even have had a 
book now if it had not been for Erin Sullivan..." 

57. Robert Hand's organization is called AHRAT, Archive for the Retrieval 
of Historical Astrological Texts. See his website: http:// 
www. robhand com/ 

58. In an email to me, Hand writes: "The main thing we explored that might 
have been a little different from your point of view was the effect of 
essential and accidental dignities upon planets in locality analysis. There 
is a tendency to regard beneflcs as always good in locality and malefics 
as bad, but the dignities do appear to make a difference... if one does 
case studies involving people who did well or badly in places where one 
might have expected the opposite, that would be a way of looking for the 
effect." 

59. Astrology on the Move, by Sasha Fenton, 1998, Zambezi Publishing, 
Brentford, UK. 

60. Wherein the World with Astro* Car to* Graphy , by David Meadows, 1998, 
AFA,Tempe,AZ,USA. 

61. For a good explanation of precession correction, see Planets in Transit, 
by Robert Hand, 1976, Whitford Press, PA, USA, pages 29-31. 

62. Where in the World? , by Erin Sullivan, 1 999, The Centre for Psychological 
Astrology Press, London. 

63. Astro locality Astrology, by Martin Davis, The Wessex Astrologer Ltd., 

1999, Bournemouth, UK. 

64. "As the originator of the Local Space technique, so valuable to me in 
understanding myself and my personal place in this world, I had always 
hoped that some writer would take the time to document this most useful 
and wonderful astrological technique. I had to wait some 25 years for a 
book to accurately present the concepts and the techniques in a clear, 
concise, and meaningful way. I want to thank Martin Davis for making 
this possible. Good job! -Michael Erlewine" 

65. To order the book see: www.ErinSullivan.com 

66. Currey comments that living on Chiron lines is best handled by following 
an impulse to become whole. By this, he means that Chiron will reveal and 
test inner contradictions, in ourselves and in others. Where an individual 
is fragmented into separate sub-personalities, pressure and conflict 
result. The additional force on these natural fault lines in our psyche leads 
to stress or emotional or physical wounding and eventually illness. The 
solution lies in synthesising these sub-personalities into one healthy, 
centred whole. Thus, locations on Chiron lines provide an opportunity to 



24 From Here to There 

become conscious of our inner fragmentation. With this understanding 
we can enter into a process of healing both physically and psychologically, 
through the experiences and encounters depending on the lines. This 
process may involve healing others, an adjustment of life-style and diet 
and a heightened attunement to nature, natural phenomena and the 
environment. 

67. http://www.equinoxastrology.com/ 

68. www.astrologysoftware.com 

69. Gregg Howe of ANS writes in an email: "Here is a topic that is probably 
the # 1 issue among our customers: How do you use Astro *Carto*Graphy 
for relationships? We need a lot more work from a theoretical point of 
view in that area. Jim worked on several techniques: composite maps, 
relationship maps (Davison), several types of overlays (lines of two charts 
on one map), but he never found anything that he felt worked well in 
analyzing how a couple or family would do in a new location." 

70. The works of Jeff Jaw er, John Townley and Stephanie Johnson come to 
mind. 

7 1 . Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, 1749-1832. 

72. http://www.internet2.edu 

73. Coined by Alfred Korzybski. 



The Astro*Carto*Graphy Book of Maps 1 
Jim Lewis and Arielle Guttman 

This book, subtitled The Astrology of Relocation and How 136 Famous 
People Found Their Place \ was a major step in the acceptance of A *C*G 
as the mainstream technique it is today. Published in 1989, the 136 
biographies demonstrated that a revolutionary development had emerged 
in modern astrology. The biographies were of people from all walks of 
life. Each consisted of a birth chart, the corresponding A *C*G map, and 
a historical and/or personality profile. The book was written by a 
committee of two: Jim Lewis and Arielle Guttman. Lewis of course, had 
developed the technique itself and had a mountain of files on the 
personalities. Guttman supplied the research and organisation to help 
bring it all together. She writes of this time: 

"Jim Lewis and I met at an astrological conference in southern 
California in the early 1980s, say about 198 1 ? I think. I loved 
his talk and his product and began ordering the maps from 
him for my clients immediately. A few years passed and I 
continued to see him at conferences and promote him in 
southern California where I lived at the time (San Diego). In 
1985 I received an invitation to the very first Certification 
Seminar in A*C*G given by Jim in San Francisco. I signed up 
immediately, took the exam and became certified (that exam 
was not easy!) I hold Certificate of Proficiency #9 given to me 
by Jim in March 1985. The second certification seminar was 
held in Laguna Beach, California in 1 986, which I helped Jim 
organize and co-teach. After that seminar, he said to me, 'You 
know as much as anyone else in the world about A*C*G 
besides myself and one other person.' I was thrilled. I never 
asked him who the other person was. Jim was always being 
hounded by seminar attendees for a book. At that time I coaxed 
him into doing something. Jim was so busy running his 



26 From Here to There 

business, lecturing and travelling, that he just never seemed to 
have time to write as much as he would have liked to. 
Nevertheless, he succumbed to the pressure and invited me to 
his office/penthouse apartment in the Haight Ashbury district 
of San Francisco for the purpose of sorting through hundreds 
of maps in his research files. Those got pared down to the 135 
or so that we used in The A*C*G Book of Maps. I spent 
hundreds of hours in libraries, researching biographies of the 
people we used. I then jotted down notes to go along with the 
maps, typed them up and sent them to Jim for his editorial 
work. Thus was born The A*C*GBook of Maps, published by 
Llewellyn in 1989. About 3,000 copies were initially printed. 
It sold out in two or three years and was never re-printed which 
greatly saddened Jim in the years before his passing." 

For those readers who are relatively new to astrology, it is valuable 
to recall how it was before the advent of A*C*G. In the introduction of 
The A*C*G Book of Maps, Lewis and Guttman quote from a client's 
letter: "Under Saturn's influence in Colorado, I worked very hard on a 
ranch for low pay and spent my spare time rock climbing". They then 
comment: 

"Prior to 1976 ? few astrologers would have been able to make much 
sense out of this statement. But since then, astrology has been aug- 
mented by a new technique, which has more to do with where than 
when. Saturn used to be found only in the sky as a malefic, wiz- 
ened killjoy, spending two and a half years making natives of any 
one astrological sign miserable as he 'afflicted' them. How did he 
get to Colorado?" 

Lewis and Guttman go on to answer this, stating that A*C*G, 
"enables a person to determine which parts of the natal chart potential 
will be accented, highlighted, or brought into consciousness in a new 
location." 

In doing her research, Guttman states that one of her favourites 
was the biography of Jacqueline Onassis. As in the book for each 
personality, we will present her birth chart, A*C*G map and profile. Figure 
1 is Jacqueline's birth chart. Figure 2 is her equivalent A*C*G map. 
Note how, with A*C*G her localised birth chart becomes a world map, 
with much of her life story etched upon it! Along with displaying her 



The Astro*Carto*Graphy Book of Maps 27 



chart and map, Lewis and Guttman write: 

"With natal Neptune directly overhead at birth, Jacqueline Bouvier 
has embodied several archetypes and acted out collective fantasies 
on a national stage. The public's curiosity about her intensified 
the more she tried to shroud herself in an aura of mystery. While 
married to her first husband, President John F. Kennedy, the public 
was able to project onto her the Arthurian fantasy of Camelot. The 
Kennedy's seemed to represent a new era in American politics, 
bringing youth, style and glamour into a heretofore stuffy White 
House. The act had a very short run, however, and her next role 
was that of mater dolorosa, the wounded, but glamorous widow. 




28^54' 



Figure 1 - Jacqueline Onassis birth chart 



28 



From Here to There 



< US $ -I fi> o 




r 5* £>** 

L , w .v> 

< < < 






Figure 2 - Jacqueline Onassis A*C*G world map 



The Astro* Carto*Graphy Book of Maps 29 

From what has since been revealed about her relationship 
to JFK (her NE-MH goes exactly through his birthplace), the events 
in Dallas (the SU-MH and ME-MH) may have been a self- 
realization, freeing her from a rigid role unsuited to her true self. It 
did not, however, free her from publicity maniacs. The press 
pursued her as mercilessly as any Hollywood celebrity, and even 
running off to her sister in Europe where the SU and ME are again 
angular on the DSC did not help. Los Angeles, where JFK reputedly 
had extramarital affairs, is identified by UR-DSC and PL-MH on 
her map. 

Meanwhile, over in the Mediterranean several Greek Isles 
were not only home to Greek shipping tycoon Aristotle Onassis, 
her second husband, but also Jacqueline's JU on the IC. NE-DSC 
crosses JU-IC nearby, and these two planets of good fortune and 
surrender of ego provided her with a secure financial future in an 
isolated and probably confining milieu. 

After Onassis' death, Jacqueline returned to New York as a 

publishing executive (NE-MH) where it can be presumed she still 

■J 

deals with collective fantasies."" 

© Arielle Guttman, material 6am her article, 1989. 

The above was written by Lewis and Guttman in 1988. Since then, 
we can add that Jacqueline was diagnosed with lymphoma cancer in 
January 1994, and began chemotherapy. The end came quickly for her, 
as she died some four months later, in May of that year. She was buried 
at Arlington cemetery next to John F. Kennedy. 

Arielle Guttman began her formal astrology studies in 1974 in San Diego, 
California. In 1980 she founded Astro Originals, a consulting firm utilizing 
astrological teaching tools. Based in Santa Fe since 1986, her work 
primarily focuses on private one-to-one client sessions, group seminars 
and writing books on astrological subjects. Conversant in the many fields 
of astrology, her specialty areas are listed on the Astro originals pages. 5 
Guttman is well known for her work with relocation techniques, 
both as a teacher and active practitioner. She has written about 
Astro* Carto*Graphy, Parans, Local Space, and Geodetics, used 
individually or in combination to obtain a better understanding of a 
situation. 



30 From Here to There 

Guttman offers seminars, testing and certification in relocation 
techniques. She is currently teaching a correspondence course through 
Astro Originals, which includes Mythic astrology, Relocation astrology, 
Geodetics, relationship compatibility and transits/progressions . She also 
offers local classes in the Santa Fe area. For further information or 
personal consultations, contact her at: 

Arielle Guttman 
P.O.Box 31116 

SantaFe, NM 87594 

USA 

001 (505) 984 8330 

sophiasantafe@earthlink.net 



NOTES 

1. Llewellyn Publications, 1989,MN, USA. 

2. The birth time used, of 2:30pm, is still widely preferred today. Quoting 
from AstroDatabank, it has an "A" rating of "moderate confidence". The 
source is Frances McEvoy, quoted from Jacqueline's friends and not 
released until after her death. Note that the Midheaven degree of her 
birth chart is 28 degrees, 54 minutes of Virgo. This within just a degree 
orb of the fixed star Regulus, often called the Royal star and the Lion's 
Heart. Properties attributed to Regulus include nobility, ambition and 
status. This effect holds true for Jacqueline as she was often referred to as 
"America's Princess" and, when married to JFK, she was called "Queen 
ofCamelof. 

3. Also on her NE MH line, in approximately 1977, she began a long term, 
"discreet" relationship with financier Maurice Tempelsman. They lived 
together in her opulent apartment overlooking Central Park. 

4. For information on Guttman's books, see: 
http://www.sophiasantafe.org/arielleguttman.html 

5. http://www.sophiasantafe.org/astrooriginals.html 



The Uses of Astromapping in Astrology 

Martin Davis 

In the previous chapter, we have seen how Jim Lewis andArielle Guttman 
got everything moving in 1988-9 with their groundbreaking work, The 
Astro*Carto*Graphy Book of Maps. Here, in Chapter 3, 1 have reprinted 
excerpts from my article in The Mountain Astrologer magazine, ' adding 
some new material as well. This article takes us forward to the present, 
showing what we can do with the locality tools currently available on 
our home computers. 

When I include astromapping techniques in my studies, I find that they 
are useful for various types of investigations: 

Relocation 

This is the most obvious and perhaps the most popular use of Astrolocality 

today. A*C*G maps display simultaneously where every planet would 

be angular over the Earth and on or near an angle of a corresponding 

■J 
relocated chart; Angularity is important because it shows where on Earth 

the energies are most likely to manifest as events. In some instances, 

Local Space (LS) 4 direction, when combined with A*C*G location, makes 

our stories even more meaningful. Though LS is less well known than 

A*C*Q I will include LS information in the examples that follow, to 

illustrate its usefulness. 

Lindbergh Flies to Paris 

Let's first tell the story of pioneering aviator Charles A. Lindbergh 
'relocating' to Paris; this can help us to better understand what happened 
to him there. Lindbergh captured the imagination and admiration of the 
Western world when he took off from Roosevelt Field, New York on 



32 



From Here to There 



May 20, 1927 and flew solo nonstop across the Atlantic for 33 hours and 
29 minutes, reaching Le Bourget airport, near Paris, the next day. This 
event was considered a milestone for human courage as well as aviation 
at that time. 

There were no maps at all for an Atlantic crossing, so Lindbergh 
had to seek weather and directional information from fishermen who 
worked off the Newfoundland coast. Even more astounding was that no 
one knew the exact location of his destination, Le Bourget airport! He 
was advised to search north of Paris and not to worry, as the airport 
would be well lighted. In fact, it wasn't. Airport authorities had turned 
off most of the lights so that the crowd could catch sight of his approaching 
aircraft, The Spirit of St. Louis. As we know, he managed to locate the 
airport and landed to great acclaim. Lindbergh then became an instant 
celebrity; tumultuous and triumphant parades were given in his honour 




Figure 1 - Lindbergh A*C*G map, European detail 



The Uses of Astromapping in Astrology 33 




Figure 2 - Lindbergh, chart relocated to Paris 

in Paris, London, and especially in New York, where he received a hero's 
welcome with a ticker-tape parade. 5 This was the pinnacle of his public 
life, however, for his later years were marred by personal tragedy and his 
unpopular political views. 

Figure 1 is the European detail of Lindbergh's A*C*G map. This 
will help us to see how the location of Paris played out in the story of his 
historic flight. Paris is 58 miles west of his Moon-MC line. This means 
that the Moon will be near the Midheaven of his relocated chart there, 
and in the 10th house (see Figure 2), so our story includes the possibility 
for him to become a focus of public attention at that location. This lunar 
quality may also explain the emotional but ultimately ephemeral nature 
of the adoration that he received. John Townley 6 writes of an A*C*G 
Moon-MC location, "This may not be the best place for a quiet getaway, 
even if its location is fairly out of the way, as you'll tend to become the 



34 



From Here to There 






W 





.*>■-*-' 



tQCAl SPACE MftECTt OM 




Figure 3 - Lindbergh Local Space (LS) map, Atlantic/European detail 

talk of the town and folks will seek you out even when you'd just as soon 
they didn't , , .Obscurity probably isn't an option, but fame may well be." 

Figure 3 is the Atlantic/European detail of Lindbergh's natal Local 
Space map. What we discover here is quite startling. His LS Mars line 
runs across the eastern Atlantic, over southern England, and right on to 
Paris, almost perfectly duplicating the actual flight path of his bold, 
pioneering journey! Might it be a surprise that his journey was planned 
on the path and in the direction that would give him the very Martian 
qualities he would need to complete it? This is, in fact, a substantiation 
of one of the principles that Erlewine identified when he developed Local 
Space: We are drawn towards our planetary Local Space lines (directions) 
to fulfil the needs that require those specific energies. Regarding one's 
LS Mars direction, Erlewine writes, "The Mars line and direction have 
to do with drive and ambition, getting things pumped up and going, and 
then taking action of all kinds. It is Mars and ambition that drives your 
career, propelling you along whatever life path you may be on. Mars 
places are connected to action and action events, not just sports and 
exercise, but adventure and adventuring of all kinds - what motivates 
you..." 7 

Let's now go back to the Lindbergh saga, using this astrological 
information to further develop and deepen our story with the help of a bi- 



The Uses of Astromapping in Astrology 35 







■ 



Figure 4 - Lindbergh A*C*G and LS lines shown together 

o 

paran (destiny crossing). In Figure 4 we have both Lindbergh's A*C*G 
and LS lines shown together. The LS direction of Mars and the A*C*G 
location of the Moon-MC energy merge about 62 miles from Paris, France. 
This, therefore, is Lindbergh's LS Mars and Moon-MC bi-paran, or 
destiny crossing! His pioneering Mars directional line brought him (10th- 
house, lunar) fame at the latitude and longitude of the lines' crossing, 
near Paris. 



Martin Goes to the Olympics 

Our own experiences are, naturally, very poignant for us. They form the 
narratives we construct as our history, our personal life stories. One such 
story for me is about my 'relocation' to Munich, Germany. In late August 
1 972, 1 participated in the Olympic Games in Munich as a member of the 
United States foil fencing team. I had been reasonably successful in my 
sport, having participated in world championships and the 1963 Pan 



36 From Here to There 



::.:■: ; . 



■ 



MO 







Figure 5 -M.Davis A*C*G and LS lines, European detail 

American games, but I had always missed selection to Olympic teams: I 
fell just short as a non-participating first alternate for the Games in 1960, 
'64, and '68 . In 1972, however, at the ripe old age of 35, 1 was as good as 
I had ever been, and I finally made the team with a number two national 
ranking. Why then and why there? Let's see what astromapping might 
add to this story. 

Figure 5 is a detail of my natal A*C*G map with LS included. 
That map detail shows my natal Mars-MC line (vertical) and the curved 
LS Venus line/direction. Munich (Munchen) is about 78 miles from the 
Mars line and less than 10 miles from the Venus line. The intersection of 
lines, a destiny crossing, is about 90 miles from Munich (I consider 
distances up to about 150 miles from destiny crossings as strong in 
influence; however, as in other astrological matters, the setting of orbs is 
really up to the user). A destiny location it was: many millions around 
the world saw me on TV, marching into the Olympic stadium, although 



The Uses of Astromapping in Astrology 37 

of course I was a faceless part of a large group and a very minor figure in 
the spectacle at that. No matter, my Mars (combat sport) was being brought 
to public attention (MC or Midheaven meridian), in a pleasant scenario 
of enthusiasm and adulation by the spectators (Venus LS). 

More on Mars-MC: In spite of my ripe old age for an Olympian 
(at 35, I was the oldest man on the US team), I had never felt better or 
stronger in my life. Near my Mars line and with my natal Mars in 
Sagittarius, my legs were moving as if I were ten years younger. And the 
world remembers the terrorist attack during those games; Israeli athletes, 
officials, and German police officers were killed. These tragic events 
happened just a few doors away from me, expressing the dangerous side 
of my Sagittarius Mars-MC (international terrorism?) for me at that 
location. 

More on LS Venus: Because of my 'advanced' age, I looked forward 
to the trip as an interesting and growth-oriented experience rather than 
with the nervousness and concern of a younger man. Perhaps it was the 
Venus energy that protected me from the Martian danger of terrorism so 
close to me there. Venus energy also most likely explains the happy times 
I had going to a concert, visiting Munich's parks, and travelling southeast 
(yes, unknowingly toward the destiny crossing!) into the beautiful Austrian 
countryside. 

Might there have been a 'resonance' between that Mars-MC 
location and my surge of energy and good form relatively late in my 
sporting career? After years of failure, did my nearby geographic destiny 
lines draw me to Munich for that Olympiad? 

Shivdasani Founds His Business in Thailand 

Sonu Shivdasani was born in London on 23 November 1965, into a family 
with extensive international business interests. After his education at Eton 
College and Oxford University, he worked in his family's various 
businesses, gaining an international perspective for both business and 
world markets. Starting moderately in 1 991 he began to create Six Senses 
Resorts & Spas, which today is a growing chain of environmentally 
sensitive, high-end (five star) resorts and spas in many beautiful locations 
around the world. 9 Though a global business, the hub of Six Senses' 
operations and main office is in Bangkok, Thailand. 



38 Rom Here to There 







PAflAN 



tt 






Figure 6 - S.Shivdasani A*C*G map with eclipse path 



Of interest here is that Shivdasani was born about 30 minutes after 
a New Moon (Annular) Eclipse, giving him a pre-natal eclipse path 
transpiring just moments before his birth. Pre-natal eclipse paths over 
the Earth can be valuable tools for studies of individuals as well as for 
mundane events, showing us where significant events may transpire. 10 
Computer programs today can plot these paths on maps which also have 
A*C*G and/or Local Space lines. Figure 6 is a detail of Shivdasani's 
A*C*G map with his pre-natal eclipse path drawn on it. With this map 
we can begin to see why he eventually moved to Bangkok, centring his 
business (and bringing most of his management staff) there. Note how 
Bangkok is in proximity to his eclipse path - as well as his conjoined 
SU-MH and MO-MH A*C*G lines. The SU and MO A*C*G lines- 
eclipse-path crossing is a very strong indicator of both power and destiny 
for Shivdasani in that region. Furthermore, a PL-JU Paran line goes right 
through the crossing (making it a triple crossing!) and the Paran line is 
only about 30 miles south of Bangkok itself. Jim Lewis spoke of combined 
PL-JU planetary energy as indicating places where business can go well, 
where miracles can happen and where setbacks can be overcome with 
new forms arising from the old. 



The Uses of Astromapping in Astrology 39 

Mundane Mapping 

The word 'mundane' comes from the Latin mundus, meaning 'world'. 
Therefore, we use the term mundane astrology to refer to the study of 
charts and maps of countries, regions, world leaders, and various 
geocosmic event moments (e.g., eclipse paths, lunations, ingress 
moments). No other field of astrology has so immediately and directly 
benefited from astromapping techniques. It is hard to imagine any 
mundane study today that doesn't gain from them. Technically , the A*C*G 
(and Local Space) mapping procedures are exactly the same as in the 
relocation work of the previous examples. The important difference for 
mundane mapping is that we don't have relocation in mind when we 
read the map; rather, we use them to discern global hot spots where 
important events either have or most likely will manifest. 

Apolitical revolution in Washington DC 

For example, in the issue of The Mountain Astrologer where this article 
was first published, you can find a mundane A*C*G map for the then 
coming moment of the Full Moon on 5 November 2006, u two days before 
the mid-term elections in the USA. See Figure 7 for this map. Looking at 
it from the perspective of possible locational hot spots, we see the Uranus- 
IC line less than 20 miles from Washington DC. Jim Lewis said of this 
line, "...houses may self-destruct in some fashion." 12 This, to me, prior 
to the election, was another indication that the Republican controlled 
houses of congress would 'self-destruct' for the incumbents and move 
into Democratic control. 

Hugo Chavez talks tough 

Another example of a possible hot spot from this Full Moon A*C*G map 
can be seen in the Pluto- Ascendant line of Figure 7, about 200 miles 
from the Venezuelan oil port of Puerto La Cruz. Pluto rising can indicate 
places where power is imposed - individuals wanting to take control of 
everything around them, with little patience for others' wishes. From the 
mundane perspective we can expect the force of the Plutonian influence 
to be expressed either by the government and/or the people en mass. The 
Associated Press reported on 4 November 13 (the day before the Full 
Moon), that Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez, speaking to oil workers 



From Here to There 



£:££ o 



"S : " a Qj 

tf » fr 




Figure 7- A*C*G map, Full Moon, 8 November 2006 



The Uses of As tromapping in As trology 41 

there, warned the US government that he would halt oil exports to them 
if there was any attempt to destabilize his leftist administration. While he 
was at it, he also warned any Venezuelan citizens opposing his government 
that they would not be welcome in either the military or the state-run oil 
company. The map's South Node line runs exactly over Puerto La Cruz, 
possibly indicating that he intends to complete his country's return to a 
fully nationalized oil industry. 

Peace in Northern Ireland 

Let's look once more at this mundane, Full Moon A*C*G map, Figure 7, 
to see another possible location of note for that lunar period: Jupiter- 
Midheaven is only about 12 miles from Belfast, NI. And, it is intersected 
by a nearby A*C*G Chiron rising line, making an A*C*G Paran, less 
than 20 miles from Belfast. Jupiter-Midheaven would indicate the 
possibility of some progress in the stalemated political process there, 
while the crossing with Chiron might offer the possibility of a healing of 
old wounds during this period. 

On 10 November 2006 (5 days after the Full Moon), the BBC 
reported the following: "Signs of Movement in NI Process" and, "There 
are indications of movement in the Northern Ireland political process..." 
as both sides of the divided community had given "a cautious response" 
and "qualified agreement" to a possible power sharing arrangement. 
Considering the acrimony and previous bloodshed over these issues, this 
was significant in the slow healing process for that locality. 

That's the gist of it in mundane astromapping: identifying 
significant Earth locations for national birth moments, coronations, treaty 
signature moments, geocosmic events (e.g., eclipse paths, lunations, 
ingress moments) and, as I'll show in the next example, for the maps of 
individuals who take on public roles. 

Mrs. Thatcher Goes to War 

Margaret Thatcher was British Prime Minister from 1979 to 1990. Her 
time in office is remembered for, among other things, the victorious 1982 
Falkland Islands campaign against Argentinian forces, which made her a 
heroine to the British public. Let's see how mundane astromapping can 
deepen our understanding of this war. 14 Firstly, we should note that 



42 From Here to There 







■ 




Mt 



© 






. 












Figure 8 - Margaret Thatcher A*C*G map, Falklands detail 



astromapping calculations and the planetary placements remain identical 
whether we map for the purpose of relocation or to identify possible 
mundane hot spots. What changes is how we use the information. 
Secondly, we note that a leader's natal chart can become pertinent to 
events in the country he or she governs. With this in mind, see Figure 8, 
the Falklands detail of Mrs. Thatcher's natal A*C*G map. We'll be looking 
at it for possible clues to her country's victorious campaign there. 

Mars- Ascendant. It is striking that Mrs. Thatcher's Mars- Ascendant 
line is in the battle zone, less than eight miles from the southern tip of 
West Falkland. To the North that same Mars- Ascendant line is only about 
60 miles from Argentina's capital city, Buenos Aires, the home of her 
adversary's government. What does this mean? From the mundane 
perspective, it indicates that courage and martial focus would easily be 
exercised in that region (more so than in other parts of the world). The 
leader or nation that 'owns' that line would be empowered and ready to 
act with Mars-like aggression there. Jim Lewis said about Mars- Ascendant 



The Uses of Astromapping in Astrology 43 

locations, "You look for confrontation, and woe to those who affront you 
under a rising Mars." In other words, both Thatcher and the nation she 
governed were up for the fight. 

Sun- Ascendant. Mrs. Thatcher's Sun- Ascendant line crosses East 
Falkland and is less than 15 miles from Port Stanley, the island's main 
city and a focus for the fighting. The force of the Sun at any of its lines 
will stimulate an urge to action, a desire to make things happen, and the 
drive to become master of one's own fate. In general, it is a positive 
place for an individual (or nation) where there can be strong leadership, 
authority, and a good plan of action. With the Sun ascending in this region, 
Mrs. Thatcher would embody such characteristics there to plan and lead 
the fight. Amongst a list of qualities, Jim Lewis said of Sun- Ascendant, 
"You exhibit leadership, audacity, courage, and a noble demeanour." 

Pluto-MC/Jupiter-IC. Margaret Thatcher's birth chart (not shown) 
has a 'tight' (partile) Jupiter-Pluto opposition at 14° Capricorn and Cancer, 
respectively. Because these planets are in opposition, the MC meridian 
line of one will exactly overlap the IC line of the other. That is, wherever 
we find the Pluto-MC line, we will find the Jupiter-IC line conjoining it, 
and vice versa. Reviewing Figure 8 again, we see those conjoined lines 
in the battle zone, though about 300 miles east of the Falklands. This is a 
larger orb, but I believe that the influence of those lines on the conflict is 
strong and gives meaning to the story. Mrs. Thatcher was, in effect, living 
out her planetary opposition there, responding to those opposing 
Jupiter-Pluto forces. Jim Lewis said of this planetary combination, 
"Circumstances are frequently upset violently, but through such change 
you usually advance in position." Historians point out that the success of 
the Falklands war turned Thatcher's political career around: she had 
become unpopular at home, but this victory assured her re-election. 

Bush Meets Resistance in the Middle East 

Here we have another example of a leader's personal natal astromapping 
information correlating with the destiny of the country that he governs. 
It helps us to better tell the story of unfolding world (mundane) events. 
Figure 9 is a Middle Eastern detail of President George W. Bush's natal 
A*C*G map. I have omitted a few of his planetary MC lines (Mercury 
and Venus 15 ) in that region to simplify the map and to focus on the 



44 From Here to There 














■ 



Figure 9 - GW. Bush A*C*G map, Middle Eastern detail 



The Uses of Astromapping in Astrology 45 

dangerous, confrontational situation we find there. The vertical lines are 
A*C*G Midheaven lines, and the two curved lines are from Local Space. 
The first thing to note is Bush's Pluto-MC line on the left. At his birth 
moment, the planet Pluto itself was in a zenith position, almost directly 
over Medina in Saudi Arabia (within about 50 miles) and about 1 50 miles 
from Mecca, the centre of the Islamic world. Bush's Pluto-MC line, 
therefore, runs near those locations - though not shown, that same line 
runs further north to within 70 miles of Moscow, implying a 
confrontational possibility there as well. For political leaders, Pluto can 
represent a region or location of confrontational struggle where they desire 
to be an agent of change. Jim Lewis tells us that Pluto-MC locations "can 
be about going it alone, having a great hunger for power, and grasping it 
at any price - where all contesting parties risk descending into tyranny." 

If we were to look at this map from a relocational standpoint - for, 
say, a client wanting to visit that area - this same Pluto-MC line could 
also speak of locations offering intense but transformational situations, 
where there is a possibility of change and where miracles might happen. 
I myself have a Pluto-MC line near Las Vegas, Nevada in the US. Years 
ago, I was invited to participate in a fencing competition there. I enjoyed 
Vegas and won that competition (perhaps by imposing my will in a 
confrontational situation?). However, it was the only time and place in 
my sports career of 1 7 years where I witnessed two fencers getting into a 
real fight with their weapons, flailing away, both trying to hurt one another. 
At first, I stepped in, trying to break it up, but then was forced back, 
sensing the danger of the steel flying about me. The altercation finally 
ended when a passing casino guard intervened by drawing his pistol. 
Pluto! 

Also in Figure 9, we have Bush's Mars-MC line. This line represents 
an active location where the native can dominate and be courageous. 
This line runs through the centre of Afghanistan, some 1 85 miles from its 
capital, Kabul. (We should note that GW Bush, like Mrs. Thatcher, actually 
won the fighting war in Afghanistan, on his personal Mars line. The 
problem was that he really didn't finish it, turning his attention to Iraq 
before the Taliban were neutralized). Further south, the Mars line is less 
than 70 miles from Karachi, Pakistan, linking these countries into the 
Martian political theme. 



46 From Here to There 

The vertical MC line in the middle of the diagram is the Midheaven- 
Mars/Pluto midpoint line. Here, we have an example of the value of 
midpoints in our studies. Only with the help of modem computer programs 
can we can get this kind of information. Note that this line runs right 
through Tehran, Iran, making this potentially a very dangerous place for 
both President Bush, personally, and the US by association. Jim Lewis 
said of this Mars-Pluto planetary combination, "Violence is thought to 
be the answer to everything" and "Passion here can be explosive and 
dangerous." The curved Local Space Mars line runs about 70 miles from 
Baghdad, Iraq, which ties that location into the combustible mix. 

Synastry (Relationship) Mapping 

Synastry mapping evaluates the combined data of two individuals to tell 
the story of how they, as a single entity, would respond to Earth influences 
at various places in the world. For many years, I described the search to 
bring this into astromapping as the holy grail of the field. Nowadays, we 
can do it by using the Davison Relationship charting technique, 16 giving 
us another valuable tool. The Relationship chart is a proper chart in its 
own right, using the average in space and time of the two participants as 
the couple's 'birth' moment. From this information, we obtain the useful 
corresponding maps relevant to the story of the relationship. 



! 







/ ^ 



Figure 10 - A. Jolie A*C*G and LS line, Walvis Bay detail 



The Uses of Astromapping in Astrology 47 



Angelina and Brad have their baby in Namibia 

Celebrities Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt had their first child together, 
Shiloh Nouvel Jolie-Pitt, 17 on 27 May 2006. The child was born in Walvis 
Bay, Namibia. The government there went to extraordinary lengths to 
protect the privacy of Jolie and Pitt, who wanted to avoid photographers 
in the weeks leading up to the birth. Namibia refused to grant entry to 
reporters seeking to cover the birth without the actors' written permission. 
Photographers were arrested, film confiscated, the couple's hotel was 
ringed with heavy security and large green barriers were set up on the 
beach to shield the family. 

As might be expected, both Jolie and Pitt, individually, have 
significant locality markers near Walvis Bay: 

Jolie has a Local Space Sun and Neptune rising (A*C*G), destiny 
crossing within 45 miles (see Figure 1 0). Relocating there on her LS Sun 
line (direction) indicates that she felt energized and confident about having 
the child at that location. Intersecting her A*C*G Neptune rising line 
there at Walvis Bay, the vibrant Sun line would offset the sometimes 
weakening effect of Neptune, possibly leaving her with an experience 
much like a beautiful movie. Jim Lewis called this planetary pair "a potent 
combination" and on the positive side, a location that can be "intensely 
inspirational" . 



; 




Figure 1 1 - B. Pitt A*C*G and LS Mercury Lines, Walvis Bay detail 



48 



From Here to There 



<£ MIDPOINT »f 

_J_. _.J ■ i,l_l . 




Figure 12 - Jolie and Pitt, Relationship A*C*G and LS, Walvis Bay detail 

For Pitt, Walvis Bay is less than 60 miles from his A*C*G Mercury- 
Midheaven line (see Figure 11). In fact, the planet Mercury was at its 
zenith position (directly overhead the earth) only 100 miles from the bay 
at his birth moment. With such strong Mercurial energy, his name was 
brought to global public attention there, with much media attention and 
public consciousness focused on the birth and its location. From Pitt's 
Mercury placement, we can surmise his communication with the 
government was excellent, receiving all the help and co-operation he 
wished. Pitt would experience this location as a natural command centre 
or headquarters from which to successfully maintain his family's privacy. 

As a couple, Jolie and Pitt have a strong relationship map for Walvis 
Bay. See Figure 12, which is a detail of the area. There are three important, 
interwoven patterns to review on this map. Firstly, they have an almost 
direct hit from their LS Jupiter line, which is only about 8 miles away 
(see the diagonal line labelled with Jupiter's glyph: 1 *). This indicates 
they travelled there in an optimistic frame of mind, satisfied that they 
had everything in place for an expansion (Jupiter) of their family through 
the successful birth of their child. With the boosting - and lucky - energy 
of their combined Jupiter direction, their optimism was probably fully 
justified. Upon their arrival, they reached their joint A*C*G Venus 



The Uses of Astromapping in Astrology 49 

Descending line, making the location a Jupiter- Venus destiny crossing. 
This crossing is less than 75 miles from the bay where they resided. 
From the Venus descending energy, we can surmise that they found Walvis 
Bay beautiful from the first moment they saw it. And, we can further 
surmise that the birth was a new bonding for them, reinforcing their 
marriage commitments to each other. Jim Lewis said of Venus Descending 
lines, "This is probably the best place to get married, especially for 
women" . Of Venus and Jupiter planetary energies working together, Lewis 
said, "This location is marked by good fortune, success, beauty and 
laughter in almost too great measure". 

Was there anything there to keep them grounded for the birth? 
Yes! In Figure 12, we can also see the A*C*G Saturn-IC line about 120 
miles west of them. Saturn on the IC at a location can bring hardship, but 
in this case I think we can see it as the wall built up to protect the couple's 



\TRANSITING JUPITER <CCG) 




CD 

> 



•Windhoek 



'alvis Bay 



Figure 13 - Jolie and Pitt, Relationship C*C*G daughter's birth, Walvis Bay 

detail 



50 From Here to There 

living space from the public eye. Saturn is about boundaries and their 
joint Saturn-IC separates them from most of Western Europe and the 
USA (to the North, not shown), all of which are on the other side (west) 
of the line. 

One unexpected line in Figure 12 is their A*C*G Mars-Pluto 
Midheaven midpoint line, less than 10 miles from the bay. John Townley 
says of this midpoint line, "When you hit, you hit hard, or at least that 
can easily be what they say about you here". 18 ! see this as the forceful 
measures taken to keep gatecrashers out of their living territory. 19 Another 
correlation with this midpoint could be the nature of the birth itself, which 
required surgery (Mars). People. aol.com reported that their daughter was 
"delivered via scheduled C-section (she was feet first, or in breech 
position, inside the womb)". 

More: Cyclo*Carto*Graphy (C*C*G) is the mapping of one's 
moving transits, progressions and directions on or over a 'fixed' line 
A*C*G map. Lewis stated that C*C*G lines can "point to times when 
potentials of the life are most apt to manifest". Looking at the C*C*G 
lines on the couple's map, for the birth date of their daughter (27 May 
2006), we find transiting Jupiter on the Midheaven, almost directly over 
Walvis Bay (see Figure 13). In other words, they were under Jupiter's 
protective energy, then and there! Jim Lewis said of a Jupiter-Midheaven 
location, "here is one of the best places to be" . 

Rectification 

Rectification is the process of creating a birth chart when the time of 
birth is essentially unknown or uncertain. Charles Jayne (1911-1985), 
the father of modern technical astrology, called rectification the Royal 
Art of astrology, because it requires much from its practitioners, who 
must use all of their astrological knowledge, intuition, and sound 
judgement to complete the process. Studies will often begin by moving a 
chart in time through the day of birth, observing the shifting chart angles 
and the planets travelling through the changing houses, all the while 
comparing this with the subject's known disposition and circumstances. 
That, however, is only the first step. Next, a proposed chart would be 
tested for 'hits' from Transits, Progressions, and Solar Arc Directions, to 
see whether the proposed timing actually worked well with the subject's 



The Uses of As tromapping in As trology 51 

known history. There are other approaches to rectification, which can be 
used independently or in combination with the method above. Of note, 
but not inclusive, are the Prenatal Epoch, the Age Harmonic and the use 
of directions for timing with major life events. 

/ suggest that we add astromapping to the mix of rectification 
techniques. 20 In general, the idea is to consider where things happened to 
us on Earth. Using a computer mapping program, we note the movement 
of planetary lines over the subject's astromap for that day, watching for 
the time when planetary lines might best match known event locations. 
We then consider this time as a possible rectified birth time. With this 
approach, we are no longer looking at chart angles or at planets moving 
through houses; rather, we are working with earth maps themselves, 
observing the timing of planetary lines over specific earth locations for 
the subject's birthday. To accomplish this, we would enter the birth date 
into an astromapping computer program that has an animation or stepping 
function. 21 Focusing on the entire world map and/or specific detailed areas 
of it, we watch the planetary lines move past us (right to left, or westward, 
if we go forward in time during that day). 

What a sight to see the great dance of planetary energies parading 
by! Vertical MC and IC lines, curved rising/setting lines, and arching 
Local Space lines: all have imprinted the world that day in a unique 
sequence, one after the other. 

Martin Seeks His Birth Time 

My birth time of 10:58am is known from my birth certificate. For the 
sake of this example, let's pretend that I don't know my birth time at all, 
and my quest in astrology is to discover a good birth time for myself. 

I could start by entering 00 hours (midnight) for my birth date 
(September 7, 1937) in my astromapping program, then stepping through 
it in time for the next 24 hours. Now, I admit this is a big task that requires 
concentration, patience, and perhaps a bit of good luck too. Doing this, I 
note that at about 11:00am that day transiting Mars-MC approaches 
Munich, Germany. As I described in a previous example, I had a Mars- 
MC kind of experience there years ago as a member of the US fencing 
team in the 1972 Munich Olympics. Because of this, I could easily be 



52 From Here to There 




Figure 14 - M.Davis, SU and JU Destiny Crossing, Philadelphia, PA 

alerted to stop the animation at that point and look more closely at other 
regions of the map. 

Another important public event for me was the Pan American games 
of 1963 in Sao Paulo, Brazil. I had done well there, but the experience 
was notable because I had been carried on the shoulders of an adoring 
Brazilian crowd after the opening ceremonies. And guess what? Looking 
at the 1 1 :00ammap, I might also notice that the Moon on the MC (public, 
emotional acclaim) runs close to that location! It's looking good, so I 
zoom in on another location of interest: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. I 
spent 13 years of my career as an industrial engineer there, and that's 
where I trained for my sport. So, still at 1 1 :00am, I zoom in on Philadelphia 
and find my Sun-MC line (shining forth, career) only about 8 miles away 
- and it is being crossed by Jupiter's Local Space direction (vocation, 
honours) even more closely (see Figure 14). That 1 1 :00am map describes 
the quality of my happy 13 years of residence in Philadelphia. I had been 
living on a very favourable Sun- Jupiter destiny crossing! 

Keeping the 1 1 ; 00am map on screen, I carefully move it back and 
forth in time, a minute here and a minute there, to get the very best fit for 
Munich, Sao Paulo, and Philadelphia. I settle on 10:59am and begin to 
test the chart for this time with its corresponding C*C*G Transits, 
Progressions, and Directions. My rectification investigation is underway. 



The Uses of Astromapping in Astrology 53 

I admit this example is simplified: The lines fit nicely, and I do in 
fact know that my birth time was recorded for one minute earlier, at 
10:58am. However, even for more difficult studies, this technique may 
yield some good starting possibilities, which can then be tested by other 
standard rectification techniques. 

Captain Edward John Smith Goes Down With the Ship 
Here's another example to help us see how this works. If I were looking 
for a rectification starting point on the birth chart for, say, the captain of 
the Titanic, Edward John Smith, I might generate a map for his birthday 
(January 27, 1850; Stoke-on-Trent, UK). Then I'd step it through time 
that day, all the while noting the times when a significant cluster of 
planetary crossings might have formed over the location where the Titanic 
ultimately sank (41°N46\ 50°W14'). Then I would look for lines over 
Belfast, where the great ship was built, and, perhaps, Southampton, her 
port of embarkation. Any such time or times would be a starting point for 
a possible birth chart for Smith. Get it? A good birth A*C*G map - and, 
therefore, birth chart - might resonate with the locations that ultimately 
defined his fate. Furthermore, in this case, where we have only one real 
defining event for Captain Smith, I would check out the corresponding 
C*C*G map for the night the Titanic sank, expecting to see a 'difficult' 



Figure 1 5 - Captain Smith, LS map, UK detail 



54 From Here to There 

array of lines for him, there and then (this would be the equivalent to 
checking transits and progressions for his relocated chart that night). 

One interesting possibility (starting point) for Captain Smith's birth 
time is about 1:14am. His natal Local Space map for that moment (see 
Figure 15) has his LS Saturn line (direction) going right to Belfast where 
the great steel vessel was built. Southampton, the ship's port of 
embarkation, sits between his LS Neptune line on one side and his LS 
Mercury on the other, each within 17 miles of the city. Mercury and 
Neptune are the perfect symbols for a sea journey. The area of the Atlantic 
where the ship sank is less than 150 miles from a difficult destiny crossing 
on his 1:14am birth A*C*G map: Saturn Descending and Mars Local 
Space direction (not shown). Jim Lewis wrote of this planetary 
combination, "One of the least desirable of places... that leaves you open 
to victimization and violence" and, "Here is where physical concerns are 
dominant". In terms of Local Space lines only, the sinking was exactly 
on his Chiron line (direction) and only 50 miles from his Mars LS line. 
Captain Smith's Local Space Pluto line (direction) falls about 80 miles 
from New York City pier 59, the Titanic's planned destination. Pluto is 
associated with death and transformation and the kind of force majeure - 
unforeseeable circumstances preventing an act from happening - which 
meant the ship never arrived. 

Captain Smith's C*C*G transits for the date and time of the 

99 

sinking are harsh - as can be expected. The ship was less than 10 miles 
from a Mars-Midheaven line and 128 miles 23 from a triple destiny crossing 
of Mars-Midheaven, Jupiter LS and a Mars-Pluto Paran. Jim Lewis' text 
on Mars-Midheaven includes the possibility of "accident proneness" and 
"overestimation of oneself at this location. His text on the Mars- Jupiter 
combination is also telling: "There is raw courage, ability to 'take arms 
against a sea of troubles', though many of these troubles may be self 
created" . The Mars-Pluto Paran also has a dangerous edge. John Townley 
writes of it, "Forceful, no-holds-barred action may be your first instinct 
here, but it could be your last." 

Thank you for joining me on this astrological journey through both space 
(location) and time. I hope I have shown how mapping can add to our 



The Uses of Astromapping in Astrology 55 

astrological investigations, indicating where on earth events may transpire 
or from where they may come to us. 

© Martin Davis 2006, with new material added 2007. 

Martin Davis first book, Astrolocality Astrology, presents the techniques 
of A *C*G, Local Space, and Geodetics as one interconnected field. The 
book won the year 2000 Spica Awardfor excellence. Martin can be 
reached via his Website: www .astrologymapping .com 

Chart Data and Sources (In alphabetical order) 

George W. Bush, July 6, 1946; 7:26am EDT; New Haven, CT, USA (41°N18\ 

72°W56'); AA: birth certificate. 
Martin Davis, September7, 1937; 10:58amCST; St. Louis, MO, USA (38°N38*, 

90°W12'); AA: birth certificate. 
Angelina Jolie, June 4 1975; 9:09am; Los Angeles, CA, USA (34°N03\ 

1 1 8°W14'); AA: birth certificate. 
Jolie-Pitt Relationship chart data (spherical Earth midpoint): September 10, 1969, 

2:20pm GMT; (35°N09\ 107°W40'); combined data, each from an AA 

source. 
Charles Lindbergh, February 4, 1902; 2:30am CST; Detroit, MI, USA (42°N20\ 

83°W03'); AA: birth record, as reported by AstroDatabank; I slightly 

rectified the 2:30am time to 2:34am and have used that time in my studies. 
Brad Pitt, December 18 1963; 6:3 lam, Shawnee, OK, USA (35°N19',096°W55'); 

AA: birth certificate. 
Captain Edward John Smith, January 27 1850; 1:14am GMT; Stoke-on-Trent, 

UK (53°N00\ 02°W10*); DD (caution), preliminary rectification by M. 

Davis. 
Margaret Thatcher, October 13, 1925; 9:00am GMT; Grantham, England 

(52°N55', 00°W39'); A: from memory; reported to Charles Harvey from 

Mrs. Thatcher's private secretary. 



NOTES 

The Mountain Astrologer, October- November 2006, Issue # 1 29, Mercury 
Direct section, page 2. 

Jim Lewis (1941-1995) was the developer of Astro*Carto*Graphy* 
(A*C*G) and Cyclo*Carto*Graphy (C*C*G). Both terms are trademarks 
registered to him. Lewis' development of the techniques and his writings 
about them remain unsurpassed to this day. Interested readers should visit 
http://continuumacg.net , a website devoted to his work. 



56 From Here to There 

3. For a discussion of 'angularity' and 'En Mundo' vs. Zodiacal positioning, 
see: Astro locality Astrology: A guide to what it is and how to use it, by 
Martin Davis, The Wessex Astrologer Ltd., 1999, Appendix 6, page 221. 

4. Michael Erlewine is the sole developer of Local Space (LS). Local Space 
is the registered trademark of Matrix Software, a company that he founded. 
Erlewine is known for his pioneering work in astrological software 
programming and his writings on astrology and music. 

5. A Biography of Lindbergh (A. Scott Berg, Lindbergh, Penguin Group, 

1999) makes the point that he was the 20th century's first media hero 
because of the newly employed 'wireless', which instantly informed the 
whole world of his exploits. 

6. John Townley is a noted astrologer and author; his text is quoted from 
Horizons, Matrix Software's astromapping program. For more on 
Townley's work, see: www .astrococktail .com 

7. This selection is from Michael Erlewine's text in the Horizons computer 
program. 

8. See Davis, Astrolocality Astrology, pp. 73-75, for a more detailed 
explanation of Destiny Crossings. 

9. The chain's core purpose is 'to create innovative and enriching experiences 
in a sustainable environment'. See their website: 
http://www.sixsenses.com/ 

10. Astrologer and financial expert Bill Meridian lectures on eclipse paths 
and their use in understanding both personal and mundane situations. 
Meridian can be reached via his website: http://www.billmeridian.com 

11. 5 November 2006, 12:59pm, GMT. 

12. All quotes from Jim Lewis can be found in the Astro*Carto*Graphy 
official booklet, unless otherwise specified. 

13. http://www.iht.eom/articles/ap/2QQ6/l l/05/america/LA_GEN_ 
VenezuelaUSOil.php 

14. For the full A*C*G analysis, see: www.skyscript.co.uk/acg.html 

15. The Bush family has a very friendly and lucrative relationship with the 
Saudi royal family. Bush's Venus -Mi dheaven line is less than 15Q miles 
from the Saudi capital city of Riyadh. 

16. A post-Davison improvement to this technique employs spherical 
geometry in the calculation, giving spherical Earth midpoints for the 
couple's longitude and latitude. The spherical method is employed here. 

17. CBS news reported: "Shiloh - which in one longstanding translation from 
the Bible has come to mean 'the peaceful one' - was born in The (nearby) 
Cottage Hospital in Swakopmund." 

18. From the Horizons computer program, by Matrix Software. 

19. Pitt had his own personal security team in addition to Namibian police. 

20. I'm certainly not the first to propose this. For example, David Meadows 
had an article on rectification with astromapping in the first-ever 'Mercury 
Direct' section of The Mountain Astrologer magazine (June/July 2000). 



The Uses of Astromapping in Astrology 57 

21. Horizons by Matrix Software and Solar Maps by Esoteric Technologies 
are two mapping programs that have this feature. 

22. April 13 1 9 1 2 : Titanic hits iceberg at 11 :40pm Greenland Time. The ship 
sinks about 2 hours and 40 minutes later. 

23. This is within the orb of up to 150 miles that I usually use. At sea, where 
locations are not really specific, an even greater orb could be considered, 
though it is not necessary here. 



Relocation can be a Career Move 
Robert Currey 

In this chapter we present a personal history of George W Bush, written 
by Robert Currey. Note how Currey weaves Astro* Car to* Graphy into 
the very fabric of his narrative. This is an excellent example of A *C*G in 
biographical writing, using it both from relocation and mundane 
perspectives. 

How the extremes in the life of President George W. 
Bush (GWB) are mapped out by Astro*Carto*Graphy 

A tale of two cities 

One of most pathetic news images in recent times was a sad George W. 
Bush gazing helplessly out of an aeroplane window at the flooded city of 
New Orleans. Yet, one of the most inspiring sights was the same man 
addressing the rescue workers at Ground Zero, New York. 

Why such a contrast? Is this as simple as the difference between a 
Neptune IC line and Pluto Ascending line? Under his Neptune crisis (New 
Orleans), Bush's popularity plummeted [36% CBS] while under Pluto 
(New York City), he hit his highest ratings [90% CBS]. This dramatic 
contrast is more concerned with the way these planets work in GWB's 
chart, than what some astrologers consider to be the fundamental positive 
or negative nature to these two outer planets. Neptune is in a challenging 
square to his Sun, while Pluto is in a singleton conjunction with Mercury, 
close by his Leo Ascendant. Under Neptune in New Orleans, Bush's 
fragile ego, incompetence and misplaced sensitivity surfaced. Under Pluto, 
his instinctive mind, leadership and persuasive powers of speech emerged. 

George W. Bush's Astro*Carto*Graphy map has already provided 
a wealth of insight into the man and his underlying strategy. So far, his 



Relocation can be a Career Move 



59 



h h \h 



®h 



'^Andover, MA 
[Phillips Academy] 
Cambridge, MA 
[Harvard Univ.] 




Figure 1 - Detail fiom George W. Bush's natal A*C*G map 

presidency has become a textbook case for the technique of 
Astro*Carto*Graphy. Just to prove how closely it follows the text, I have 
included published quotes from Jim Lewis (1941-1995), the pioneer of 
the technique we know as Astro*Carto*Graphy. 



Moving to Mercury for education 

George Walker Bush's first significant relocation was in 1961 . He moved 
from near his Sun line in Texas to Andover, MA to attend Phillips 
Academy. Here he landed spot onto his Mercury rising line - a fitting 
planet for learning his basics and ball games including basketball, 
American football and, his obsession, baseball. Mercury can be vocal 
and GWB was head cheerleader. 

In 1973, Bush returned to his Mercury line for more education in 
the form of an MBA from Harvard Business School in Massachusetts. 



60 From Here to There 

"You may be known for your mental abilities, repartee .. .manual 
skills. Physical coordination ...may improve here." 

'Mercury Ascendant' 

"These are good places for perfection of mental and verbal skills, 
education, a mischievous irreverence .. .Lines of communication 
develop through involvement in public affairs." 'Mercury Lines', 
in Handbook of Astro*Carto*Graphy by JimLewis. (HA.C.G.) 

Membership of an elite secret society - Skull and Bones under Pluto 

In 1964, he enrolled at Yale in the centre of New Haven, Connecticut - 
the city of his birth (6 th July 1946 7.26am EDT). Now, he was hard back 
onto his Pluto rising line. Here George became head of the Delta Kappa 
Epsilon fraternity and a member of the exclusive Skull and Bones, a 
secret society whose membership included his father and grandfather. 
Bonesmen, as they are called, are forbidden to reveal what goes on in 
their inner sanctum: the windowless building on the Yale campus that is 
called "The Tomb". Bush included several bonesmen in his administration 
and his democratic presidential rival, Senator John Kerry, was also a member. 

"A tendency to hide self and personal secrets, and to live apart 
from others. There is hidden power within you, that often acts 
to change other's lives by mere contact with you." 

'Pluto Rising', HA.C.G. 

Back to the Sun in Texas 

GWB returned to his Sun rising line in 1971 when he went to work in 
agriculture in Houston, TX. He was also "involved in a mentoring program 
for children in inner-city Houston." 

"Children (of all ages) find you irresistible, and you will prob- 
ably do everything you can to ensure that you have a following 
of some sort." 'Sun Ascendant lines', Psychology of Astro* 
Carlo *Graphy (PA. C.G.) 

During this time, he flirted with the idea of running for state 
representative in Texas but decided against it. Along Sun lines, Jim Lewis 
writes about: 

" ...an urge to action demand that you become master of your 
own fate, be your own boss .. .leadership [is] accented .. .ruth- 
less in your quest for fame. Men become fathers here." HA. C. G 



Relocation can be a Career Move 61 

Being on his Sun line has been a mixed blessing for Bush. Because 
his Sun is square his stellium in Libra, gaining any credit or recognition 
in the large shadow cast by his outrageously successful father was a 
superhuman task. In pursuit of this quest, he drilled many dry wells as an 
oil man and saw the bottom of many a bottle in his private life. However, 
the Sun is his chart ruler and he eventually struck oil in a different form. 
The form this took was a share in the Texas Rangers baseball team, which 
he bought in 1989 and sold at a huge profit ten years later. In keeping 
with the location on his Sun rising line, Bush became their spokesman. 
Under Sun rising lines: 

"You pattern yourself after your father." 

"Work succeeds in areas that attract other's attention." 

"A profession that puts you before the public is thus likely to 
attract your attention, as you feel quite self-confident, impulsive 
and extroverted." HA. C. G 

Gaining popular support by fostering the myth of the all-Texan hero 

Bush's Sun rising line covers the two largest cities of Texas (comprising 
over half the population of the state. Source: The Economist Diary 2006). 
This solar energy enabled Bush to create his own heroic image in the 
eyes of Texans and win popular support. Oil interests backed him on the 
basis that he was his father's son, an oilman at heart. Through carefully 
choreographed photographic shoots on his ranch in his cowboy hat, Bush 
managed to look the archetypal Texan rancher. His public connection 
with baseball also enhanced his image as a spokesman for the people. He 
even managed to win support from traditional democratic voters such as 
the Hispanic minority. So, it was in west Texas that George Bush found 
his path on his heroic journey. This state proved to be an ideal foundation 
for his surprisingly successful bid for governorship, followed by an even 
greater majority in his re-election to a second term. Like his father, George 
H. W. Bush, Texas was his springboard into politics. 

"Your relationship with your father may lie deep beneath this 
personal quest for identity, as you consciously or otherwise seek 
to imitate the power that he exercised over you in your 
relationships with others." 'Sun on the Ascendant,' P.A.C.G. 



62 From Here to There 

How GWB's lines gave him the momentum to clinch his first 
presidential election, but only just ...! 

"His (George Bush's) win in South Carolina set the stage for an 
eventual triumph in the final round of primaries. Through the 
primary season, his mother and father made appearances on his 
behalf." First Son, by Bill Minutaglio, Crown, 1999 & 2001 . 

His Jupiter, Moon and unaspected Saturn lines cross South Carolina. 

On Moon IC lines: 

" . . .you are able to blend into any environment, seem to belong 
where you are, despite the constant change and emotionalism." 

HA.C.G. 

"Family matters may take up more time and energy than you 
are used to. Any comfortable sense of belonging, however, is 
balanced by a constant fear of loss of security .. .unpredictable 
things keep happening and people keep intruding into your life 
unexpectedly." PA.C.G. 

On Moon lines: 

"you identify with your mother." HA.C.G. 

It was this same Jupiter/Moon IC line, that worked so well for 
Bush in the primaries, which helped him to pip Al Gore, who won a 
majority of the popular vote in the race for the presidency. With less than 
half a percent difference in the vote and several court rulings, it came 
down to shrewd lawyers, family influence and luck. 

The combination of Jupiter and the Moon on the IC can, in simple 
terms, be described as good fortune through your family. In Bush's natal 
chart, this conjunction also includes Chiron. Because his Moon (and the 
whole stellium) is square his Sun and trine Uranus, Bush is likely to have 
mixed feelings about his closeness to family. Certainly, his relationship 
with his mother, Barbara has been up and down. 

"Bush said the Queen asked him why his mother had seated 
them so far apart. Bush said he told the Queen it was probably 
because he was the 'black sheep of the family.'" 
(Referring to a dinner at the White House in 1 990, in an interview 
with Oprah Winfrey Sept 20, 2000). 



Relocation can be a Career Move 63 

Yet, family support has been decisive along his Jupiter/Moon line. 
After South Carolina, it was critical at election time in Florida, where his 
brother, Jeb was governor, and later in Washington, DC, all along these 
supportive lines. 

On Jupiter IC lines (Washington, DC and Florida), according to 
Jim Lewis: 

"You ...become a patriarch, pillar of society, and successful 
though conservative politician." "You become benevolent and 
generous, as you contentedly pursue your own religious or 
family destiny." 

Moon IC: 

"You react to circumstances and situations, that require you to 
come to terms with your family and your ancestral background." 

HA.C.G. 

GWB personifies the USA so his potential personal crises manifest 
as national disasters 

George W. Bush identifies very strongly with his homeland and he takes 
anything that occurs to the USA extremely personally. There are two 
strong astrological pointers to this. First he was born on 6 th July so that 
his Cancer sun is conjunct the chart of the USA (4 th July 1776). The 
second factor is that his Moon and Jupiter are on the IC in Washington, 
DC. He feels at home in the capital city and a close connection to the 
mood of the nation. So, in personifying the nation, his chart comes into 
effect on a national scale. With Pluto rising in Leo, GWB is prone to 
spectacular crises in his personal life. This may account for such major 
national disasters occurring on sensitive zones on his A*C*G map during 
his presidency. We have returned to a pattern from earlier millennia, when 
the astrologer would use the birth chart of the king to interpret the fate of 
the kingdom. 

"Our nation is somewhat sad, but we're angry." GWB 

Ridiculed for the 'My Pet Goat* episode on his Chiron line 

It was along his Chiron (IC) line in Sarasota, FL that George first received 
confirmation of the terrorist attack on the twin towers. GWB came in for 
stinging criticism for his stoical reaction to the news, as he remained 



64 From Here to There 

seated in that Floridian classroom. He was ridiculed in the film Fahrenheit 

9/11: 

"Mr. Bush just sat there and continued to read My Pet Goat. 
Nearly seven minutes passed with nobody doing anything." 

Fahrenheit 9/11 

His supporters argue that his blank response was dignified in that 
he did not alarm the children. Cynics say he was more interested in hearing 
what happened to the pet goat than face the national catastrophe. 
Nevertheless, within a short time, Bush was on Air Force 1 heading west 
towards his Neptune (confusion) line where he touched down in Barksdale 
Air Force Base in Louisiana. 

Mr. Bush says the first hours were frustrating. He watched the 
horrifying pictures, but the TV signal was breaking up. His calls to Cheney 
were cutting out. And he says he pounded his desk shouting, "This is 
inexcusable. Get me the vice president." "I was trying to clear the fog of 
war, and there is a fog of war," says the president. "Information was just 
flying from all directions." (60 minutes, CBS Broadcasting September 
10,2003.) 

After landing at an underground command centre in Nebraska, 
Bush was back in Washington, DC within nine hours of the attacks. In 
the aftermath of 9/11, Bush mostly remained on his more relaxed, 
responsive and easy-going Libran Moon/Jupiter zone in Washington, DC. 
His first reaction appeared timid and uncertain (very Sun Cancer in 12 th 
house). 

"Immediately after the assaults on the World Trade Center and 
the Pentagon, [the President] did not get off to a distinguished 
start. 'Where is the president?' people wondered, and 
understandably so." The Alchemy of Leadership, by Warren G. 
Bennis and Robert J. Thomas, Harvard Business School Press. 

Pluto rising in New York brings crisis and transformation 

Pluto, the planet associated with destruction, revenge and re-birth, runs 
through New York in GWB's map. There is no doubt that GWB personally 
felt the bitter collective pain of mass destruction caused by vengeful 
suicide terrorists to this wealthy and powerful metropolis. 

It was not until Bush moved onto his Pluto (Rising) line in New 



Relocation can be a Career Move 65 

York on September 14th, that he reinvented himself as a warrior with a 
mission. 

"Even more dramatic was how President George W. Bush 
seemed to be transformed in the same crucible." (Also quoted 
from The Alchemy of Leader ship .) 

I remember witnessing his epiphany on television. The scene on 
Ground Zero was one of desolation and tragic debris. Smoke was still 
rising from what had become a pyre. Bush later described the atmosphere 
as ghostly. Surrounded by firemen and clearance workers chanting "USA! 
USA!" Bush tuned into the mood of his audience. His voice and language 
changed. He had rediscovered his personal power. At one point, a voice 
in the crowd calls "I can't hear you." Spontaneously, Bush responds, "I 
can hear you. (Applause.) I can hear you. The rest of the world hears 
you. (Applause.) And the people who knocked these buildings down will 
hear all of us soon." (Applause.) 

"There was [sic] tears, there was anger," recalls the president. 
"There was a lot of bloodlust. People were, you know, pointing their big 
old hands at me saying, 'Don't you ever forget this, Mr. President. Don't 
let us down.' The scene was very powerful. Very powerful." 

By the end of that day, Mr. Bush flew to Camp David, visibly 
drained. "He was physically exhausted, he was mentally exhausted, he 
was emotionally exhausted, he was spiritually exhausted," recalls 
president's chief of staff , Andy Card. 

The next day - Saturday, Sept 15 - Mr Bush told members of his 
war cabinet in a last decisive meeting at the presidential retreat: 

"My message is for everybody who wears the uniform - get 
ready. The United States will do what it takes." CBS News 

New York: the phoenix was born again, out of the ashes 

Within a few moments on the corner of Murray and West Streets in 
downtown New York, President Bush metamorphosed from a verbally 
challenged, psychologically paralysed head of state, to an inspirational 
leader. The symbolism of Pluto was palpable. America (and Bush) 
symbolically became a phoenix rising out the ashes of the old incarnation. 
At the time of writing this, 9/11 had been the greatest crisis of his 
presidency, and, with Pluto rising in his natal chart, he picked up the 



66 From Here to There 

gauntlet. Now he had a purpose, he felt he could fulfil his destiny. Only 
history will tell whether his subsequent path was of benefit to the world 
or simply destructive and counter-productive. 

The connection between Bush, New York City and Mercury 

Now the symbolism of New York goes even further. Having lived in the 
city in my early twenties, I have long felt that the Big Apple is ruled by 
Gemini. It is a city full of change, mobility, quick talkers, cops who talk 
as if they have just kissed the Blarney Stone, fast taxis with drivers with 
unpronounceable names and sharp-witted radio station disc jockeys. So, 
I was not surprised to find that the city was incorporated as New York 
(from New Amsterdam) on June 12, 1665. On that day the Sun, Moon, 
Mars and Pluto were in Gemini. 

The twin towers symbolised the heavenly twins and the attack 
occurred with Saturn and the Moon in Gemini, opposite Pluto in 
Sagittarius. Now Bush has the ruler of Gemini, Mercury, conjunct his 
Pluto Rising in his natal chart, suggesting that this mercurial energy is 
tied up with crises. Mercury is connected with siblings and, by association 
with the sign of Gemini, twins. So, whenever this type of familial tie 
features in George's life, Pluto is also invoked, bringing potential crisis. 
For example, when George was seven years old, his sister tragically died 
of leukaemia. Years later, the birth of his twins brought George to another 
critical point. After trying to conceive for three years, he and Laura 
considered adoption. So, the eventual arrival of Barbara and Jenna, five 
weeks prematurely (due to toxaemia), must have felt like a miracle to 
George. Twenty years later, on a clear autumnal day, his Mercurial crisis 
arrived from the sky in the form of four Boeing 757/767 aircraft. It took 
three days for Bush to connect with his inner power to handle this crisis 
and to start to pronounce his plans for extreme and decisive retaliation. 

GWB's hot spot with his Mars line through Afghanistan 

For you or me, Mars lines on our Astrocartography maps show zones 
(about 300 miles either side of the line) where we are more oriented to 
sports, workouts and other activities. Here, we are more direct and at 
times more confrontational. This also applies to heads of state, but here 



Relocation can be a Career Move 67 




Figure 2 - Detail fiom George W Bush's natal A*C*G map 



Mars also manifests in their foreign policy. Mars defines areas of potential 
conflict, which could escalate into war. 

For George Bush, Afghanistan - right on his Mars Midheaven line 
(see figure 2), became his first proactive battleground. With an "on-off" 
unaspected Mars, GWB's inner aggression found expression in his outer 
world. This Mars is a strong planet and we should not forget that he 
shares this configuration with Sylvester Stallone a.k.a. Rocky and Rambo 
(born on the same day as GWB). The theme in his chart with Mercury 
conjunct Pluto and his unaspected Mars may explain why GWB tends to 
"fluff his lines" when he talks about emotional issues, but becomes 
articulate and single-minded when making hostile statements. Mars MC 
lines: 

"Here, you strive for success and position in society, often 
through military work .. .there is a definite identification of self 
as somewhat 'macho'. Success comes through initiative, courage 



68 From Here to There 

and confidence in self, and through the overcoming of 
antagonisms and competition." HA. C. G. 

"... conflicts with authorities that lead to violent confrontations 
...you learn your true power to exist and prosper in a hostile 
environment that demands taming." PA.C.G. 

On Mars lines: 

"Pain and danger are dealt with frequently .. .the world is seen 
as a hostile place where one does battle with others for selfish 
ends. You take actions that commit you to the struggle for 
survival "JfAC.G. 

Mars lines have a history of prescribing war zones, but there's 
always an exception 

The Mars line is a good indicator of potential war zones for world leaders. 
For example, Margaret Thatcher's Mars line goes through the Falkland 
Islands and Jimmy Carter's through Tehran, Iran. JFK's Mars line does 
not go through the Bay of Pigs as one might expect, but through Moscow. 
While for Bill Clinton, his Mars line joined Venus and Neptune (in Libra) 
over the UK, where the slogan "Make Love, Not War" took on a special 
meaning. As a student in the 1960s he marched with the peace rallies 
demonstrating against the Vietnam War outside the US Embassy in 
Grosvenor Square, London. And it was as a student in Oxford University 
that he famously smoked cannabis but he claims did not inhale. However, 
a friend who was a contemporary at University College disputes this. 
The sporting potential of Mars came out as Clinton played rugby while 
at Oxford. Later as President, he took key initiatives in setting off the 
peace process in Northern Ireland close to his Mars/Neptune (pushing 
compassion) lines. So, Mars doesn't always point to aggression or war. 
On Mars and Neptune combined: 

"In unusual cases, there may be non-violent victory, implement- 
ation of ideals." 

On Neptune MC: 



"You come to stand for certain ideals, especially non- violent 
ones." 

Drugs are mentioned under Mars/Neptune and Venus/Neptune. HA.C.G. 



Relocation can be a Career Move 69 

Besides Afghanistan, GWB's Mars line goes through southern California, 
within orb of GWB's third major presidential crisis, where over half a 
million acres were destroyed by wildfires in October 2007 , the Azores 
where he met Tony Blair and the Spanish Prime Minister in preparation 
for war, and Canberra, Australia (see figure 3). In October 2003, Bush 
addressed the Australian parliament thanking them for their support in 
"his war on terror" . During the speech, two Australian Green party senators 
heckled him. For Bush, Mars was setting exactly in Canberra when he 
was born. War in Afghanistan was his first major action as President. He 
acted in his professional capacity as leader of his nation and it furthered 
his career by gaining popular support. All this is in keeping with Mars 
being at his MC over Afghanistan. However, in Canberra, Mars on the 
descendant took the form of a personal attack. In keeping with the 
symbolism, here he was confronted by aggression within his personal 
presence. 




Figure 3 - Detail fom George W Bush's natal A*C*G map 



70 



From Here to There 



Middle East: a complex love/hate zone for GWB 

For Bush, the Middle East is a 'love/hate' zone. This pan- Arabic region 
is bordered by Mars over Afghanistan to the East; Venus over Tehran, 
Iran and East Saudi Arabia; Pluto over Mecca, and Mercury over West 
Syria, Lebanon and West Jordan. 

In the Sibley chart for the United States (July 4th 1776 at 5:10pm LMT 
Philadelphia, PA), Pluto in Capricorn is opposite personal planets in 
Cancer. This aspect instils into the US national psyche a congenital feeling 
of threat to security from outside. Historically, this has taken the form of 
an intense aversion to any controlling dictatorial leadership. It started 
with George III and British imperial power, but continued with Hitler, 
pre-perestroika Soviet leaders, and Fidel Castro, Saddam Hussein, Osama 
bin Laden, to name a few. This almost paranoid fear was bound to become 
a reality around the Millennium when transiting Pluto crossed the US 




Figure 4 - Detail from George W.Bush's natal A*C*G map 



Relocation can be a Career Move 71 

Ascendant. With Baghdad on the US A*C*G Pluto line, Saddam became 
a natural scapegoat and a dangerous threat, with his supposed weapons 
of mass destruction. 

To add to this dangerous line-up, GWB's Pluto MC line also goes 
over Mecca, the symbolic heart of the Muslim region. It is as if GWB 
and the USA are meeting their projected demons out there. In true Plutonic 
form, the encounter between Bush and the Muslim nations has been, and 
will be, intense and neither will ever be the same again. The more Bush 
tries to control Islamic fundamentalism, the greater the backlash for US 
interests and for future generations. In this clash, Pluto is primarily about 
oil and control under the banner of democracy. 

"Here, a basic alienation from society causes great power hunger, 
and it is grasped for at any price, with danger of tyranny existing. 
You resent authority , yet crave it for yourself and seek to become 
number one at any price, so there is alternate hero-worship and 
desire for power. In this location, you could become famous, 
murdered, notorious, a fugitive or great leader. Your image, 
perhaps in the press, comes to stand for some popular ideal, or 
its antithesis, and the ultimate battle of life is fought ...with 
mortally high stakes." Pluto MC lim\ HA.C.G. (GWB's line 
over Mecca, Saudi Arabia.) 

It is worth remembering that Saudi Arabia may be a US/Bush ally 
(with Venus), the Pluto influence (as described above) surfaces in that 
the majority of the 9/11 terrorists including Osama bin Laden were of 
Saudi origin. 

The presence of Bush's Venus, a planet connected with love, in 
this potential war zone seems inappropriate. It hints that Bush is not simply 
locked into a crusade against the Muslim faith; the Middle East is for 
him a bazaar filled with treasures. Venus is also connected with alliances 
and finances. Well before 9/1 1, the Bush family were 'in bed' with Saudis 
through the Carlyle Group - primarily a defence consortium. 

While George's Venus line crosses allies, like Saudi Arabia and 
Kuwait, who supported both Desert Storm wars, it also goes over Tehran, 
capital of his current adversary, Iran. Though this clash has yet to run its 
course (at the time of writing), reports suggest that there have been behind- 
the-scenes requests by the US for Iran to exert its influence on the Iraqi 
Shi'ite Muslims. 



72 



From Here to There 



Tony and George - like Swan Lake: a love affair across a pond 
based on myth, fantasy and misapprehension 

In the UK, GWB's Neptune ascending line is within 50 miles (80 
kilometres) of London and Tony Blair's Neptune (and Saturn) Midheaven 
line crosses George Bush's ranch in Midland, Texas. Even though their 
two countries have been close allies since 1 8 1 2, an American Republican 
and a British Socialist are not natural allies. However, with Neptune so 
strong, it appears that they saw in the other what they wanted to see. For 
Blair, the combination of Saturn and Neptune may have prompted a sense 
of social and spiritual obligation, possibly followed by disillusion when 
Bush failed to get a UN mandate for his Iraq war. 



BRITISH 
ISLES 




Figure 5 - Detail from George W. Bush's natal A*C*G map 



Relocation can be a Career Move 73 

It is interesting that while there are no clear or strong Neptunian 
aspects in the Bush/Blair synastry, this astrocartographical theme of 
Neptune does appear to colour their alliance. Both leaders have revealed 
that God was behind their decision to go to war. They each promoted 
what now appears to be the myth of Saddam's weapons of mass 
destruction. So while Bush benefited from Great Britain as a leading 
country in "the coalition of the willing", the shared intelligence and joint 
planning has revealed a pattern of confusion and delusion. For both Bush 
and Blair, Neptune is a difficult planet in their natal chart. For Bush, as 
we will see, it points to a vulnerable blind spot. 

This type of locational synastry is similar to the Lennon/Ono 
A*C*G synastry. John Lennon's Venus rising line ran through southern 
Japan and Yoko Ono's Venus MC ran through Liverpool. 

What happens when Poseidon lies at the bottom of the chart? 

In September 2005, 1 was looking at a giant image of George W. Bush's 
world A*C*G map on display on our booth at the New Living Expo in 
Fort Lauderdale, Florida. No matter how closely GWB's life follows his 
map, it took my breath away to see his Neptune IC line fall right on the 
then recently flooded city of New Orleans. Neptune (or Poseidon to the 
Greeks) was the god of the sea and placed on the zone of the home (IC), 
we can expect an encounter between water and homes. In most charts, it 
might describe an urge to live near water, though it can also manifest as 
rising damp or a liability to flooding. Well this last potential became a 
reality for the citizens of New Orleans, one day after the category 4 
hurricane, Katrina, made landfall. The resultant storm surge broke the 
levees and soon 80% of the city was flooded. What did Jim Lewis write 
about the Neptune IC line? 

"Real estate and home matters usually don't go too well, and 
you begin to become dependent on others for sustenance..." 

"Community living may be best ...So that the past can be left 

behind here." [The Louisiana Superdome provided shelter for 

9,000 refugees.] 

"Whatever is built has foundations of sand ...and it too is subject 

to self deception and illusions. Isolation and non-attachment 

make feeling rooted here impossible, except where you depend 

onothers."tf.A.C.G. 



74 From Here to There 

When it rains at home, it pours! 

Was GWB's natal Neptune activated on August 29, 2005 when Katrina 
made landfall? Yes - Neptune, in his natal chart is widely conjunct his 
Moon and Jupiter in Libra - so when it rains at home, it pours! At the 
time, Jupiter, Venus and the South Node were conjunct GWB's Moon in 
the middle of his Libran stellium. 

There's another take on transiting Jupiter and Venus in Libra 
(indulgent pleasure) going over his natal Moon (at home). This may 
explain why George was slow to end his extended holiday and why his 
mood (Moon) was so optimistic (Jupiter) about the impact of the 
hurricane! 

"Leaked video footage and transcripts of top-level briefings in 
the six days before the storm showed federal officials telling 
Mr Bush the storm could breach levees and overwhelm rescuers. 
.. .He did not ask a single question in the final briefing on August 
29 last year, the day before Katrina made landfall. But he told 
officials in Louisiana: 'We are fully prepared'. ...The footage, 
obtained by the Associated Press, appears to contradict Mr 
Bush's announcement four days after the storm that he did not 
think 'anyone anticipated the breach of the levees'. The inept 
initial handling of the disaster shattered Mr Bush's reputation 
as a strong and decisive leader." Alec Russell, Daily Telegraph, 
2nd March 2006. 

At this time, Saturn was crossing his Leo ascendant (exact on 13 
September 2005) and in typical style, the Katrina disaster brought him 
down to earth with a bump. Being Leo rising, his only option was to 
respond with a humiliating public apology. In the event, he shouldered 
his responsibilities (Saturn) and publicly (Leo) accepted blame as the 
commander in chief. 

George Bush and his advisers initially misread the scale of this 
massive disaster. In an antediluvian moment, even newscasters were 
announcing that New Orleans "had dodged a bullet". This misreading of 
the threat along with the ensuing chaos and disorder, are symbolic of 
Neptune - the key planet directly under New Orleans when GWB was 
born. However, Neptune can also bring guilt and GWB's uncharacteristic 
comments afterwards suggest that he might have been moved by the plight 



Relocation can be a Career Move 75 

of the victims of the disaster. According to the BBC, on 16 September 
GWB said: 

"The task of rebuilding after Hurricane Katrina is a chance to 
wipe out poverty and remnants of racial injustice." 

Was the flood part of George Bush's karma? 

There's a strange irony that the extreme nature of the two big 2005 
hurricanes, Rita and Katrina were a result of rising temperatures in the 
Caribbean. While some climatologists argue that this is part of a natural 
cycle, a larger number point to increasing fuel emissions as the cause of 
global warming. In the USA, the principal fossil fuel is oil. The path of 
both hurricanes went through USA's primary petroleum processing 
centres. During his first term George W. Bush was notorious for his refusal 
to cooperate with world initiatives to limit fuel emissions and fierce in 
his protection of oil companies. Is this the Earth 'making a statement' or 
karma or just an unfortunate coincidence? 

© Robert Currey 2006. 

Robert Currey trained in Astro *Carto *Graphy under Jim Lewis and is a 
certified Astro* 'Car 'to* Graphy consultant. He has practised astrology 
since 1981. His company, Equinox, prepares a range of chart analyses 
written and programmed by himself, plus authorised Astro *Carto *Graphy 
world maps and analyses by Jim Lewis. He has added an interpretation 
for Chiron to Lewis' originalAstro*Carto*Graphy handbook. In 1989, 
he founded the Astrology Shop in central London. He now runs Equinox 
as an international mail order service - see www. astrology, co. ukformore 
information about written analyses and www .astrolivelink.com for 
Astro* Carto* Graphy and other astrological consultants. 

NOTES 

1 . Sometimes I have put keywords next to a planet. This is to help people 
unfamiliar with astrology understand one dimension to the energy of the 
planet. However, it is important to note that the planet will not always 
manifest in this way and that the nature of the planetary energy is much 
greater than a few keywads. 



76 From Here to There 



2. When I write that New York is ruled by Gemini, I am saying that the sign 
of Gemini is very strong in the chart for the founding of the city and in 
the life of the city. 

3. Astro*Carto*Graphy® is a registered trademark. See: 
http://continuumacg.net/ for more information about licensed users and 
certified consultants. 

4. Thanks to Donna Cunningham for bringing to my attention that George 
Bush is a twin of Sylvester Stallone, Adrian Duncan for pointing out that 
Baghdad is on a Pluto line in the US chart and to my wife, Karen, for 
various ideas including noticing GWB's Mars Descendant line on 
Canberra. 



My Summer Vacation 
Maya White 



Locality astrology is useful to everyone who wishes to tell a story. Here 
we have a fine example from Maya White. White has been an astrologer 
for over 25 years. She specialises in Astro *Carto *Graphy, having earned 
her certification in 1992 from Jim Lewis. Over the years she has become 
one of the most experienced practitioners in the US. White set off on a 
dream holiday with the highest of expectations . Things don't quite turn 
out for her as she nearly loses her life! 

That which does not kill us makes us stronger. 

Friedrich Nietzsche 

Astro*Carto*Graphy has long been my passion. I ordered my first A*C*G 
map in 1979, and earned certification from Jim Lewis in 1992. The 
synchronistic nature of A*C*G has been a driving force in my life, and it 
continues to fascinate me. There is no palette which better illustrates the 
accuracy and strength of Astrolocality than my own experiences. 

I left my brother's house under the best of circumstances - a crisp, 
clear, late summer morning. Never had I seen Colorado looking so 
beautiful. The land was lush with overgrown prairie grasses and rich 
green cottonwood trees. I'll never forget the date: August 15, 2004. I 
began my journey in Denver at 8am, full of hope and anticipation, and I 
ended it in Billings, Montana, at 8pm, with parts of my body shattered, 
in fear of losing my life, and being held in the arms of an angel. 

My entire trip to Colorado had been planned with an eye to current 
astrological transits. As Saturn entered my 4th house, I purposefully chose 
to visit my childhood home and my aging father. You know, burn the 
karma; get it before it gets you. I did indeed get a chance to say a last 
farewell to my father, but the rest of my chart also sprang into action. I 



78 



From Here to There 



■ — 

* 







Figure 1 - Detail of natal A*C*G map, Maya White, Nov 6, 1953, 4:47 PM, 
Longmont, Colorado. 

am one of the fortunate survivors of an incident which is played out in a 
drama that has shattered many lives: an automobile accident caused by 
an intoxicated driver. The road to recovery has been a long and twisted 
journey which rocked my foundations. Every step of the way, the A*C*G 
maps illustrate my story. 

A*C*G is a synchronistic interface between one's natal chart and 
resonant Earth locations. Planetary influence lines pinpoint the geographic 
places where each luminary is shifted into a point of activation. The heart 
of A*C*G is the power of angularity conveyed by each planet's 
Midheaven (MC), Imum Coeli (IC), Ascendant (ASC), and Descendant 
(DSC) locations. These four points of activation are where and when 
things happen, both in natal chart astrology and on the A*C*G maps. 
While software options in mapping programs make it possible to create 
maps with dozens of other lines, such as house cusps, major and minor 
aspects, coordinate system reference planes, etc., I think the strength of 
planetary angularity reigns as the primary brilliance of A*C*G. 

See Figure 1. Billings Montana sits on the 45th parallel, only 67 
miles from the direct crossing of my Uranus IC and Sun DSC. I also have 
a Saturn DSC and Moon DSC crossing only 200 miles further west. Both 



My Summer Vacation 79 




Figure 2 - Jupiter-Pluto parans. 



80 From Here to There 

are within orb of distance to be considered major planetary influences. I 
also have two paran' crossing of Jupiter and Pluto, one at 44° North latitude 
(over the North Eastern US), and another at 45° North latitude (over the 
Pacific Ocean, 660 miles West of Oregon); both played a significant role 
in this event. See Figure 2 for those parans. 

In my natal A*C*G map, Billings invokes the locational influences 
of Sun and Uranus, as well as Moon and Saturn and parans of Jupiter and 
Pluto. With a loose trine between the Sun and Uranus in my natal chart, 
I was expecting the more positive manifestations of Sun and Uranus: 
once- in-a-lifetime events, creativity and increased personal freedom. 

I eagerly looked forward to my visit in this astrologically exotic 
locale on the 45th parallel. In my innermost being, I had visions of past- 
life reconciliation with known and unknown ancestors. My plan was to 
visit the new home of a dear friend who had recently moved to Billings. 
We had also planned a short trip into the South Dakota Native American 
lands, the place where my father was born and raised. I had long felt that 
I retained a connection with another disaster, the Wounded Knee Massacre 
of 1862. This journey was initiated with an intention to ritually heal my 
tie to this ancient wound; I just had no idea how much it would hurt. 

I took the long way out of Colorado that summer day, into the 
Rocky Mountains and up over the Continental Divide. Just before noon I 
stopped in Allenspark to revisit another childhood memory, 'Charlie Eagle 
Plumes', a well-known Native American store in Allenspark, Colorado. 
As I was leaving Charlie's store, a strand of prayer beads caught my 
attention, begging to make the journey with me. I continued my excursion, 
pleased to have threads from a distant past hanging on the rear view 
mirror of my red rental car. The weather was perfect, the scenery 
spectacular and the wildlife abundant. As I drove over the highest 
mountain pass, my car was accompanied by a low flying Golden Eagle; 
surely this was another good omen for what I hoped was an auspicious 
journey. 

Perhaps it is because the planetary gods were with me that I lived 
to tell the story of that day. Just minutes before arriving at my destination 
in Billings, I witnessed the unthinkable: ahead, a car was speeding the 
wrong way out of an exit ramp, coming headlong towards me! It seemed 
to have me in its sights, as if guided by a demon. I had only a split second 



M7 Summer Vacation 81 

in which to make a critical choice of which way to swerve, but no matter, 
it seemed locked in on my path, and I suffered its head-on assault. Next 
I heard and felt a deadly thud and crunch, which I knew would change 
my life forever. As time passed, I never lost consciousness, even while 
being cut out of the car by technicians using power tools. The safety 
airbags diligently saved my life, and yes, I was wearing my seatbelt! In 
addition to various cuts and bruises, I experienced the most intense pain 
in my right foot - a pain beyond anything I had ever imagined possible. 

My excursion to the highly charged A*C*G zone of Sun/Uranus, 
Moon/Saturn and Jupiter/Pluto had suddenly turned deadly. Without 
warning I experienced the influence of the Imum Coeli (IC) aspects of 
Uranus on my core being (Sun). And, I had suddenly drawn into my life 
a manifestation of the most troubling Moon and Saturn aspects in A*C*G: 
health concerns, poor treatment, and seeming activation of an ancestral 
or karmic curse. One of the questions posed by use of A*C*G maps is 
'how long does it take until one feels the effects of planetary influences?' 
My answer regarding this location has to be that the effects manifested 
almost immediately. My life was dramatically changed in an instant. 

Dismally, the accident was only the beginning of my change in 
fortune on that fated day. Because of the high-speed impact, my car was 
spun around and left facing the oncoming interstate traffic. Beside terror, 
my only thought was how ironic it would be to have survived such an 
accident, only to be cut down again by oncoming cars. Thank God for 
my angel, the woman who stopped to comfort me before the ambulances 
arrived. I was trapped inside my vehicle, but she cradled my head and 
reassured me that those blazing headlights from oncoming high speed 
traffic would stop in time. Simultaneously, two ambulances arrived and 
my angel disappeared into the night. As she walked away, so did my 
only connection to hope and sanity in the hours which followed. 

The first clue that I was in for a bad spell could have been that the 
driver who had obviously caused this accident was transported to the 
hospital before me. Although his injuries were far less than those I 
sustained, the onsite medical personnel could not evaluate his condition 
because he was passed out, drunk. I had to wait, all the while in torturous 
physical and emotional pain. Once inside the hospital, I felt like a stranger 
in an even stranger land. 



82 From Here to There 

My right foot, the one I had unconsciously gripped onto the brake 
in a desperate attempt to avoid impact, was severely damaged from the 
head-on collision. My hospital stay was a bizarre nightmare of pain and 
nausea. Morphine made me violently ill, but other drugs barely touched 
my agony. For the first two days I laid in bed with bits of auto glass still 
stuck to my body! To make matters worse, the physician assigned to my 
case was barely civil. I could not understand why this doctor was so 
incredibly rude, and I was in too much pain to really care. (Months later, 
I considered that perhaps he wrongly thought it was I who was the 
intoxicated driver). More painful days passed there. After the swelling 
subsided I had a four-hour operation to rebuild the heel of my right foot, 
requiring a steel plate and twelve metal screws. 

Drunk driving is a tragedy which has affected far too many lives. 
In that area I am just another statistic, yet a fortunate one, because I lived 
to tell my story. The man who ran into me pled guilty to his offense. He 
received a $600 fine, one day in jail (suspended), and restricted driving 
privileges for six months. This was his second intoxication crime involving 
personal injury of another driver, yet he did not really even lose his legal 
right to drive - or go to jail! Montana seems to be peculiarly behind the 
times in both judicial attitudes and laws. At the time of this tragedy (August 
of 2004), it was actually legal for a person to drive with an open alcoholic 
beverage! I understand that statute has since been changed; however, in 
addition to a lifelong physical injury, I suffered a gross denial of justice 
from the state of Montana legal system. 

Not only did my natal A*C*G map point to the possibility for 
danger, my personal transits were also active and illustrated in the 
Cyclo*Carto*Graphy maps. C*C*G is an auxiliary technique which 
displays progressed and transiting planets as an overlay to the natal 
Astro *Carto*Graphy map. The C*C*G map is a quick and accurate 
locality visualization of one's progressed Sun, Moon, Venus, Mercury 
and Mars. The outer planets, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto 
are displayed by transit position on the C*C*G map. The next map reveals 
more relevant detail to this drama. Transiting Saturn IC on the C*C*G 
map is approaching Billings (36 miles) at the moment of the accident, as 
is progressed Mars DSC, less than 200 miles away. See Figure 3. 

Thankfully, this story has a happy ending, and there are numerous 



My Summer Vacation 83 




Aliens Park 



i i 

As Ds io 

■ a $ v 



Figure 3 - Montana detail. C*C*G for Maya White, August 15, 2004, 8:00pm 

angels included in my tale. The first one was the mysterious lady who 
appeared only minutes after the accident and comforted me during the 
darkest moments of my life. As the ambulance arrived that horrifying 
night, she disappeared from the scene, never to be seen again. I shall 
always thank God for this helper who gave me hope when I had none. 

The next angel was my dear friend whose house was only minutes 
away from the scene of the accident - yet a far distant light. She stood by 
me every step of the way and for two months graciously nursed me back 
to health in her home. I shall be forever grateful to my spiritual sister 
who fed me nutritious food, gave me healing herbs, and shared so much 
love. She also went with me to retrieve the prayer beads out of the wrecked 
vehicle from which I so miraculously emerged. Those prayer beads from 
Charlie Eagle Plumes' store had surely served their purpose. 



84 From Here to There 






. 




Figure 4 - Billings MT. Detail, C*C*G transits. December 22, 2005. 

Amazingly, my adventure also brought a welcome face from the 
past that I had not seen since my early teens. I was reunited with a long- 
lost cousin during my unexpected stay in Billings! In this strange and 
distant town, I found a true paternal blood relative. One of my cousin's 
hobbies is genealogy, and she showed me pictures of ancestors whom I 
had no idea ever existed. Together we examined our common blood line 
in photos of gypsy-like European immigrants who camped and lived on 
the great plains of America. More leaves and branches of my family tree 
were brought into focus. 

One more angel who had crossed my path previously was a 
competent automobile insurance agent. Thank Jupiter I had adequate 
uninsured motorist coverage in my policy! It came as no surprise that the 
drunken driver who assaulted me carried only a bare minimum of 



M;y Summer Vacation 85 

insurance - nothing near what was needed to cover even the first 24 
hours of my hospitalization. But, I was armed with the blessing of my 
44 th parallel crossing of Jupiter and Pluto in the Northeast, which 
materialized as financial abundance backed by integrity. "Money business 
and inheritance are the areas of life that go well under these planets, and 
to some few people, miracles may happen. You can become rich, find, 
win, or inherit wealth, and seem to be protected by guardian angels in 
times of trial". Finally a positive manifestation of Pluto: a large sum of 
money! My insurance company located in Maine (less than 120 miles 
from my Jupiter ASC- Pluto IC paran) came through for me with a decent 
settlement; certainly a life changing contribution towards my recovery. I 
received my settlement check on the day Jupiter transited my natal Sun 
(therefore, also conjoining my natal SU DSC line through Billings MT, 
the scene of the accident)! See Figure 4, transiting Jupiter DSC line 
through Billings on the day I received my settlement check. 

Even armed with astrological knowledge, one faces endless doubts 
when the worst possible outcome of a challenging transit manifests. As 
Saturn continued its transit of my natal 4th house, I worked diligently to 
build my new foundation, literally one step at a time. The accident 
happened in seconds, but my long journey towards healing was measured 
in years as I daily confronted uncomfortable body changes which brought 
issues of mortality into crystal clear focus. 

In addition to the physical trauma, I also faced psychological 
ramifications from an accident of this proportion. Current New Age 
philosophy would advise me to explore why I created such an event. 
That is a good question, and I have done so, but the reality denies a 
simplistic answer. How does my peaceful state of mind on that particular 
day reconcile with the last hours? Did I indeed attract this? Was I 
relentlessly pursued by a negative force, or a victim of my own hungry 
ghost? Maybe I was just in the wrong place at the wrong time. Perhaps I 
encountered a devilish pocket of energy whirling around on the Earth. 
What can explain the fact that 24 hours after my accident - at the same 
location - a woman my age was killed in another head-on collision? 

There are unanswerable questions which still spiral around this 
event. Sadly, my father took his life a few short months after I almost lost 
mine. My visit with him in August, on the day before my journey to 



86 From Here to There 

Billings, was our final goodbye - for this lifetime. The single answer I 
can provide is that the only thing I could control about this entire situation 
was my attitude. I learned to affirm life. What I could command was how 
well I went about my daily routines on the road to recovery, and finally, 
embracing a lightening of my heart and soul. 

Thanks to the grace of blessings housed within this personal tragedy, 
I harvested a much needed psychological reconciliation as well as financial 
sustenance. But it's not about the money. It's about healing a sacred 
wound. Much of the work was simply in regaining a sense of normalcy 
about life. Transformation comes as a necessary expression of rising from 
the ashes of tragedy, and I choose to fly with the Golden Eagle who 
accompanied me over the highest mountains. I have journeyed with Inanna 
into the underworld, then returned. And, with my sisters I raise a toast to 
the blood of the Phoenix: that precious elixir which brings back life, 
passion, and joy. 

©Maya White 2007. 

Maya White's astrology columns have been found as far afield as in the 
TCorat Post * in Korat, Thailand, and Toeing ■ magazine, in Hollywood, 
Florida. She is the creator of Easy Astrology Oracle Cards, scheduled 
for release by Hay House, Intl. in September of 2008. White can be reached 
via her website: www. WhiteStar Astrology .com or directly by email at: 
maya@mayawhite . com 

NOTES 

1 . In A*C*G theory, the term 'paran' is used to convey the concept that the 
energy of any planetary crossing has a secondary effect at that given 
latitude anywhere around the entire Earth. So, at any place on the planet 
where I am on the 45° North latitude, 1 am affected by my direct Sun/ 
Uranus and Moon/Saturn crossings in the western United States. I also 
have the activation of my Jupiter/Pluto paran crossings, which are located 
in the Northeastern US and the Pacific Ocean. Paran influences are not as 
strong as primary planetary lines, but they do have a role in A*C*G 
interpretation. 

2. Astro*Carto*Graphy interpretation booklet, Jim Lewis, 1976, Pages 41- 
42. 



Between Heaven and Earth 
The Influence of Astrology on Earth 

Angel Z. Thompson 

Angel Z. Thompson is a noted participant in the Astrolocality field. She 
writes on the subject, teaches, and develops new material as well. In this 
chapter Thompson gives us a helpful overview of locality. 

"The world was given to us in motion and the forces of natural 
evolution keep it in motion. It is the responsibility of the stellar 
geographer, or astrologer, to keep an eye on that motion, to call 
our attention to that motion. And to give shape to that motion with 
maps and charts." 

Sister William & Angel Thompson 

A traditional horoscope is a study of movement through time. It is a 
symbolic representation of the planets, as they are arranged in the heavens 
at a specific time, and is connected to the Earth by the longitude and 
latitude of a specific place. 

Placement colors the phenomena of time and space because where 
you are determines what you are able to see. Change the place and the 
time will change. Change the time, and the horoscope changes. For 
example: at 9:00am in California the Sun appears to be rising and a 
horoscope cast for this time and place will have the Sun in the twelfth 
house. At the very same moment in New York it is 12 noon. The same 
Sun that was rising in California is now high in the New York sky, and a 
horoscope cast here will position the Sun in the tenth house. When the 
longitude and latitude change, the connection to the Earth changes and 
the chart reflects these differences. 

Astrology gives meaning to time. It is an abstract discipline of the 
mind that conceptualizes the complexities of the human spirit, and 
objectifies cyclical patterns of behavior. However, life is organic, the 



88 From Here to There 

human experience subjective, and the chart is subject to modifications 
based on placement. As a result, astrology doesn't always work the way 
we think it should. Even as we struggle to fit the concept to the individual, 
symbols on paper distance us from planetary energy. With our head in 
the stars, we miss the power of the planets at our feet. 

Spatial astrology gives shape and meaning to planetary power as 
it is expressed on the Earth. It offers us the opportunity to experience 
directly the forces that give shape to destiny. And since the most profound 
wisdom is learned without teaching, this experience shows us how to 
accentuate or diminish planetary energy at will, making us co-creators of 
fate, and astrology a moveable feast. 

No matter where you go, there you are. Yes, the birth chart is set 
for a specific time and place and will always be the primary vibration of 
one's life. Yet, when the location changes, the vibration changes, shifting 
our perception and stimulating latent potential. We experience life a bit 
differently in New York, we get that 'New York state of mind'; in Los 
Angeles, the sun and sea help us to relax and unwind. One place may be 
luckier for the individual while the other place is not: tragedy happens to 
a tourist on holiday, wedding bells ring for another; the conservative 
librarian dances on a table, while the party girl is down with the flu. Is it 
the place or is it the planets? It is both. 

The astrological technique of relocation offers us the opportunity 
to see what our life might be like in a location different from that of our 
birthplace. 'Change your latitude, change your attitude'; a relocated chart 
modifies the radical chart, it does not replace it. To calculate it, use the 
longitude and latitude of the alternate location and adjust the time to 
compensate for any differences (PST at 9am is 12pm EST). This does 
not change the sign or degree of the planets but it can change the signs 
and degrees of the house cusps. Because the angles change, planets can 
gain or lose power and influence over the chart. Some astrologers use 
this technique to find the 'perfect' place to experience their solar return; 
others use it to understand the influences surrounding the life in the new 
location. However, there are times when we just don't know what place 
would best serve our needs. When that happens, an Astro*Carto*Graphy 
map can help one discover where in the world is best for them. 



Between Heaven and Earth 89 

Astro*Carto*Graphy is an ancient technique perfected in the twentieth 
century by Jim Lewis. Instead of a wheel with signs, planets and houses, 
an A*C*G map is a flat map of the world, with vertical and curvilinear 
lines drawn through it. The lines mark the places on Earth where each 
planet reaches maximum angularity, or where each planet is on the first, 
fourth, seventh or tenth house cusp. The angles are the most powerful 
spots in the chart and planets positioned on them have maximum 
expression, and manifest in the world of physical phenomena. Their 
expression is strong, active and visible. However, a complete and 
comprehensive understanding of the natal chart is essential in order to 
determine what will happen when a planet comes to an angle. Activate a 
strong planet and many good things can happen. Activate a poorly placed 
or severely stressed planet, and the problems of that planet are magnified. 
For example, a woman with heart problems, born in Chicago at Central 
Standard Time, had Mars placed in the physically weak twelfth house. 
She relocated to Pacific Standard Time, in Portland Oregon, where Mars 
was conjunct the physically strong ascendant, and her heart condition 
disappeared. Sometimes, however, it is better for a planet to be off the 
angle. For example, President John Kennedy had a fortunate and safe 
chart in Boston. In Dallas, Texas, a potentially dangerous planet came to 
the Midheaven angle and he was assassinated while visiting there. And 
yet, an individual born in San Diego had the Sun and Jupiter in the angular 
fourth house and was completely dominated by his mother. When he 
relocated to Boston, the Sun and Jupiter moved into the third house, here 
he was able to reclaim the powerful energy previously projected onto his 
mother and become a world famous psychic. 

If there is no possibility of relocating, or if a planetary line goes 
through an undesirable or inaccessible place, you can use the law of 
correspondences to bring a more positive place to you. Say your Venus 
line runs right through Siberia, but you have no desire to go to Siberia. 
You can activate that Venus line by listening to Russian music, eating 
caviar, drinking vodka and watching Doctor Zhivago and in this way 
bring Siberia to wherever you are. 

Another technique that places planets on the Earth is Local Space 
Astrology. Local Space Astrology gives meaning to space and helps 
maximize the potential of your planets. Created by Michael Erie wine, a 



90 From Here to There 

Local Space chart has no signs, houses or aspects. Using azimuth and 
altitude to calculate their location, the planets are placed around a 360 
degree compass. This gives a map of the horizon surrounding a birth 
time or event: a circle in which all the planets are arranged around a 
compass and North, Northeast, East, Southeast, South, Southwest, West 
and Northwest become the arenas where planetary energy is expressed. 
To activate or access a planet, position yourself, your furniture, equipment 
or objects on the line. For example, placing a telephone on a Pluto line 
assures you peace and quiet, because the telephone never rings. On a 
Mercury line, the telephone may never stop ringing. If a planetary line is 
not accessible, or is in an inappropriate place (for instance, if the Sun 
line runs through your closet) do not panic. The directions hold for 45 
degrees, so exactitude can be sacrificed for effect. And, you may be able 
to extend the planetary influence to a more suitable location. 

In addition, directions extend along a continuum - North eventually 
becomes South, Northeast becomes Southwest and so on. Rather than 
sitting on a planetary line, facing the direction of the line also activates 
it. For example, say you want to place your dining table on a Venus line, 
but the Venus line is in the North and the dining area is in the South. 
Place the table in such a way that the head chair faces North and you 
have Venus energy 'in your face'. 

Also, by using the law of correspondences, as we did in A*C*G, 
we can bring any planet to us by using the appropriate colors and objects. 
If the dining room table is on the Saturn line and cannot be moved, using 
copper accessories, silvery-blue colored linens or other 'Venus' items in 
the table decorations will emphasize Venus qualities and create a more 
harmonious dining experience. A word of caution: each horoscope is 
unique. In some charts, Venus can be light-hearted and cheerful, while in 
other charts it may be indulgent and lazy. Study the horoscope carefully 
to determine the strengths and weaknesses of each planet. 

To try this technique, you must use a Local Space chart, not the 
natal chart. A computer generated Local Space chart is the most accurate, 
though you can draw one yourself, using the 'eye-ball' method. Divide a 
360-degree circle into eight segments, each with 45 degrees. Then, using 
your natal chart as a reference, start with the Midheaven, which is due 
South and the only point in the horoscope aligned to space. This will 



Between Heaven and Earth 91 

give you a compass-like circle. Now, using your horoscope as a reference, 
place the planets in their approximate directions. This is about 70 per 
cent accurate, but since each direction spans 45 degrees, it is close enough 
for 'field work' or when a computer report is not available. 

Perhaps you want to live in a state where the Sun line is prominent, 
or to find a gym in your hometown located on your Mars line, or to go to 
a school near your Mercury line. You can use your Local Space chart to 
discover the places where your planetary lines are most active. To do 
this, place your Local Space chart over a map of the world, or over a 
specific country, state or town. 

To discover the effect of your planetary lines in your home or office, 
place your Local Space chart over a diagram of the entire building or 
house, aligning the Local Space chart with the direction of the entry. To 
determine the direction of the entry, stand in the main doorway, looking 
out. Use a compass for accuracy and check the direction your nose is 
pointing towards. This is called the 'facing direction' and from it you can 
determine all the other directions. For example, if the entry door faces 
South, place the Local Space map within the interior and align the South 
of the map to the South of the entry door. If the entry faces West, align 
the West point of the Local Space map with the entry door. Now, discover 
the rooms or spaces within the rooms where each planetary line finds 
expression. 

A Mars line through the bedroom can account for a noisy neighbor 
or barking dogs. A Venus line through the refrigerator can portend weight 
gain, while a Saturn line running through a reproduction of an antique 
armoire will add to the illusion of genuine antiquity. When the alignment 
is inappropriate, use the law of correspondences to reduce the negative 
and accentuate the positive. 

To refine these techniques, Feng Shui, the ancient Chinese art of 
placement, offers some help. Feng Shui is the study of energy and how it 
affects the spaces we occupy. The eight directions are used to define 
eight specific areas of life. Each direction is associated with an element, 
a planet, a color, a shape and many other correspondences. All eight 
directions must be included in every space, otherwise certain areas of the 
life will be lacking. When this occurs, objects, colors, images and shapes 
can be used to imply or compensate for the missing directions. In addition, 



92 From Here to There 

functions and forms work best when they are placed according to their 
directional correspondence. For example, the South is ruled by Fire and 
represents fame and popularity. To activate the South, and your potential 
for fame, place pictures of yourself in this direction and use Fire colors 
and flame-like shapes and objects (such as lights and candles) in this 
area of the home or office. Placing watercolors, shapes and objects on a 
South wall can diminish your popularity in the same way that storm clouds 
shroud the Sun. Of course, if you desire privacy, adding Water to the 
South can hide your light. 

Poised between Heaven and Earth, we can be conduits of planetary 
energy. No longer victims of our horoscope, the techniques of spatial 
astrology enrich our understanding of the power of the place and enable 
us to harness the planetary energies. Planets on the Earth assist us in 
enhancing every area of life and offer us the opportunity to change our 
destiny and make astrology a moveable feast. 

© Angel Thompson 1992. 



Angel Thompson is a well- known astrologer and fengshui practitioner 
who for the past twenty years has been building the bridge between 
Western astrology and Chinese philosophy. Her approach and her 
interpretation is humanistic yet practical. She combines the location 
techniques of astrology with the solutions and cures of compass school 
feng shui, to create harmonious spaces for her clients. 

She is the author of "Feng Shui, How to Achieve the Most 
Harmonious Arrangement of Your Home and Office, " published by St. 
Martin 's Press in 1996, which is now in its sixth printing! Thompson was 
a founder of www .ContinuumACG .net , which is the center of A*C*G 
information on the web. 



Reincarnation in Local Space & A*C*G 

Maps 

ATMann 

Tad Mann s work is unique. It is known for its embracing of the ancient 
arts along with the mystical and mystery traditions. In this chapter Mann 
describes his system for determining previous incarnations from natal 
astrological parameters . 

Thirty-five years ago I developed a system for determining one's previous 
incarnations based on the position by sign of the planets in the horoscope. 1 
One of my starting points was a statement by Sigmund Freud that 
"ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny," which is a scientific way of saying 
that in our individual life we relive the developmental stages of human 
history. When we learn language at the age of three (during the 3 rd House/ 
Gemini time in my Life Time Astrology system), we are at a similar 
developmental stage to that humanity was in when language evolved in 
about 14,000-7,000 BC. Another influence is Jung's theory of the 
collective unconscious, which posits that we all contain a repository of 
the common archetypal religious, spiritual, and mythological symbols 
and experiences of humanity. 

I believe that the sequence of zodiacal signs (and houses) is a 
metaphor for the developmental stages in individual human life, and 
echoes our collective historical development. To portray this, we grade 
history logarithmically over two precessional cycles (about 50,000 years), 
making a (logarithmic) time line. This time line is then correlated with 
zodiacal signs, creating what we call the Reincarnation Time Scale (see 
diagram 1 from The Divine Plot: Astrology and Reincarnation, 
HarperCollins, 1986). In the Reincarnation Time Scale each 
developmental stage is about half as long as the previous stage, reflecting 
the increased density and population through history, and its subsequent 



94 From Here to There 

compaction of time as we approach the present time. Early stages take 
thousands of years, while later stages, more toward the present, take mere 
decades. The positions of the planets and personal points in the horoscope 
indicate our twelve primary incarnations and their equivalent historical 
times. The mechanism ties us to historical ages and the cast of characters 
that influence future generations with their work, ideas, creations or 
personalities. It shows the specific influence we derive from previous 
generations. One needn't be Shakespeare (Venus in Sagittarius) or Walter 
Raleigh (Mars in Sagittarius) to be influenced by Elizabethan England; 
if you have planets registering at this time, you will be naturally drawn 
to the appropriate place and time. This is often verified by one's interest 
in certain foreign places, periods of historical time, particular religious 
beliefs or customs, taste in art history, where you live and even where 
you choose to take your holidays. In such cases, we are recapturing the 
essence and feel of parts of ourselves that are embedded in history. 

The metaphor is powerful, especially when one sees the correlations 
of signs to the sequence of historical eras. The first four signs are the 
Mythic Era before there were specific historical individuals in 3000BC, 
and this correlates with the deepest archetypal or mythic layers of the 
psyche that are often the focus of Jungian depth psychology. Aries is 
nomadic; Taurus is the time of agriculture, Earth Mother cults and 
domestication of animals; Gemini is tribal and the creation of language 
and diversity of crafts; and Cancer is the first cities and hearth and grain 
goddesses. The Era of Consciousness begins when the first legendary 
individuals appear around 3000 BC, with Leo being Babylonia, Chaldea 
and Egypt and the age of kings like the legendary first Emperor of China 
and the first pharaoh; Virgo is the Classic civilizations of Greece and 
Rome and the major religions founded by Confucius, Lao Tse, Buddha 
and Jesus Christ; Libra is the East- West cross-fertilization after the fall 
of Rome, the Arthurian mysteries and also the origin of Islam; Scorpio is 
the Middle Ages, the Crusades, cathedrals and the Black Death. The Era 
of Individuality begins in 1500AD with Sagittarian world voyages of 
discovery and the profound philosophy and art of the Renaissance; 
Capricorn is the industrial revolution, the world states in revolution 
(France, the US and Russia), Protestantism and the ascendancy of science; 
Aquarius is the Victorian era, Socialism, Darwin's Origin of Species and 



Reincarnation m Local Space and A*C*G Maps 95 




Figure 1 - Thor Heyerdahl birth chart 

the United States Civil War; Pisces is the dissolution of classical science, 
mathematics, music and the two World Wars. 

The idea is that the positions of our planets place us in certain 
historical ages and carry the quality of the planets into the present, which 
we then interpret by studying it or writing about it, attracting sympathetic 
energies. For example, it would be logical that historians are drawn to 
the time periods in which they have planets, particularly those related to 
their studies. What is even more interesting is that the Local Space (LS) 
or A*C*G map may show the places of their interest. 

The Norwegian explorer and historian Thor Heyerdahl was of 
Viking origin (his Sun in Libra dates at 750 AD, the height of Viking 
civilization. He postulated that the Polynesian peoples were populated 



96 



From Here to There 



_. r 

; : ■ ■ 




-• ■ ' • ■-"- 



_ 



J 



Figure 2 - Thor Heyerdahl, detail of A*C*G map 



Reincarnation in Local Space and A*C*G Maps 97 




Figure 2A - Thor Heyerdahl, detail of Local Space map 



98 From Here to There 

from Peru, instead of vice-versa, which he demonstrated by sailing a 
raft, Kon Tiki, westward toward the Marquesas. His birth chart is shown 
in Figure L Note that his PL-SA conjunction registers around 6500BC, 
the Stone Age time when this original voyage supposedly took place. 
His A*C*G SA-DSC and PL-DSC lines pass through Peru, and his 
A*C*G PL-MH and SA-MH lines pass west of the Marquesas in French 
Polynesia, the ultimate destination of his voyage. See Figure 2. Not only 
that, but his Local Space SA and Local Space PL lines also pass west of 
this area, as well as through Hawaii. Pluto shows major movements of 
societies and SA with PL is toughness and endurance. See Figure 2A. 

Napoleon Bonaparte 

A well-known case of reincarnation is that of Napoleon Bonaparte (See 
Figure 3: Horoscope of Napoleon), who believed himself to be a 
reincarnation of Alexander the Great (356-323 BC is 9° to 10° Virgo) 
and Charlemagne (AD 742-812 is 12° to 15° Libra). His Neptune-Mars 
conjunction is in early Virgo, corresponding to Alexander as the spiritual 
warrior. The Ascendant in Napoleon's horoscope is 10° Libra, showing 
that his personality is within two degrees of the time of Charlemagne. 
Napoleon's Sun in 22° Leo, which is equivalent to 1280BC, during the 
prime of Egypt and just after the time of the Sun- worshipping Pharaoh 
Akhenaten. 

Figure 4 is an A*C*G and Local Space map detail for Napoleon 
(Note that some lines have been omitted for clarity). What is extraordinary 
is that his Local Space SU line passes through Cairo and his A*C*G ME 
line passes along the Nile River valley where he sent his armies to conquer 
and retrieve the secrets of the pharaohs (1798-1801). His Mars and 
Neptune Local Space lines pass through Athens and the heart of ancient 
Greece. As these refer to his incarnation as Alexander the Great, Mars 
refers to the legacy of his skill in battle, and Neptune represents the well- 
known interest of Alexander in spiritual matters and philosophy, as he 
was tutored by Aristotle, who also told him to search for the (Neptunian) 
Great Outer Sea, which led to Alexander conquering almost the entire 
known world east of Greece. These lines show where his incarnations 
are, just as the degree points show when they happen. 



Reincarnation m Local Space and A*C*G Maps 99 




Figure 3 - Napoleon Bonaparte birth chart 



102 From Here to There 





: 




le 



Figure 6 - Thomas Mann, detail of A*C*G and Local Space map 

As there is no evidence that Thomas Mann knew astrology, it would 
be natural for him to instinctively use his own horoscope as that of Joseph, 
and the agreement between the two lives is striking. It would seem obvious 
that Mann felt a sympathy and strong connection to Joseph, but the life 
parallels are beyond chance because the Bible records the plot of the 
Joseph story. What is amazing is that the life of Joseph is prophetic of 
Thomas Mann's life during the years when he wrote the novel. Many of 
the events in Mann's life happened after he had written about them in 
Joseph's story. One example is the parallel between Joseph receiving the 
Coat of Many Colours over his ten older brothers and Thomas Mann 



Reincarnation in Local Space and A*C*G Maps J03 

winning the Nobel Prize over his more famous brother Heinrich. Another 
is that Joseph famously interpreted the Pharaoh's dream of the coming of 
war and Thomas Mann's prediction to Franklin Delano Roosevelt (FDR) 
that America would eventually have to enter the Second World War. In 
addition, both Thomas Mann's A*C*G ME-MH and ME-LS lines pass 
through Egypt near Cairo, showing a communication and writing 
connection. See Figure 6, a detail of Mann's locality A*C*G and Local 
Space lines. 

Robert Graves 

The English poet and author Robert Graves wrote a novel, LClaudius, 
that spawned a very successful television series and is based on the life 
of the Roman Emperor Claudius (10BC-54AD). What could the 




* 



Figure 7 - Robert Graves birth chart 



104 From Here to There 




Figure 8 - Robert Graves, detail of A*C*G map 



®^ 




*s* 



w. 



y 

V , •Manchester 

,^\*Liverpool 

MBtCWY^WAWISPARAN 













Figure 9 - Robert Graves, detail of A*C*G and Local Space map 



Reincarnation in Local Space and A*C*G Maps 2 05 

connection be? Graves has Venus in the 17 th degree of Virgo, which is 
just one degree away from a perfect correlation with Claudius' birth year. 
See Figure 7: Graves' birth chart. 

He also has his A*C*G SA-MH line going right through Rome, 
and his ME-DSC only about 115 miles away, which would seem to be 
appropriate, considering this series in some ways 'defined' him (ME- 
SA). See Figure 8. 

We also see that Graves' PL-LS andNE-LS lines run through North 
Wales, near the Druidic sacred mountain where his White Goddess, about 
early Celtic goddess and tree cults, is set. Neptune and Pluto in Gemini 
are in the time when language was developed and they are in a close 
square to Venus, possibly linking these two great interests of his life. 
Figure 9 shows those Local Space lines through Wales with the ME-UR 
paran line from his A*C*G map. Note the crossing of all of those lines is 
exactly at the Druid's initiation center, Mt Snowdon. The Mercury-Uranus 
paran intersecting the LS lines (in North Wales) shows a powerful 
connection, as Mercury is the ruler and depositor of both Venus and his 
Neptune-Pluto conjunction. Furthermore, the ME-UR paran at that 
crossing indicates his great talent for speaking and writing about it, 
possibly emanating from his early historical influences. 

Pablo Picasso 

The work of the cubist painter Pablo Picasso is very instructive. It is 
often remarked that many of his paintings, drawings and other imagery 
evokes African art: amorphous female bodies, unusual proportions, 
strange patterning and other stylistic qualities. All this makes sense when 
we see that Picasso has a stellium in Taurus, (see birth chart, Figure 10), 
the sign historically of the Earth Mother cults throughout Europe and 
Africa twenty thousand years ago, and that in LS the same stellium of 
SU, SA, NE, PL, JU and ME passes through the heart of Africa. See 
Figure 11, the Local Space map for Picasso. In Figure 12 we see that 
Picasso's Saturn, Neptune, Chiron, Jupiter and Pluto were all at their 
zenith positions over Africa at his birth moment. This powerful Earth- 
aligned stellium is bounded by the Sun on the IC to the west, and Moon 
on the IC to the east, both also over Africa. 



106 From Here to There 




Figure 10 - Pablo Picasso birth chart 



Reincarnation in Local Space and A*C*G Maps 107 



SJ 



J 



■ 1 









Figure 11 - Pablo Picasso, detail of Local Space map 



Mil Mc tarMr Me 




Figure 12 - Pablo Picasso, detail of A*C*G map, Zenith positions 



108 



From Here to There 




Figure 13 - Ossian MacLise birth chart 



Ossian MacLise 

An aware individual has primary consciousness only of the stage in which 
he/she lives in the present time, with partial access to the octave 
immediately before or after. During our gestation, many previous lives 
may be simultaneously recalled, and in childhood, the gestation octave 
of previous lives is still sensed, although such memories begin to fade 
and are often suppressed as unnatural. There are many cases of young 
children remembering past lives so vividly that objects, words and ideas 
totally alien to their new life are recognized instantly. Such a process is 
in action in the selection of Tibetan Buddhist lama or tulku incarnations. 
Figure 13 is the horoscope of a young Western boy, Ossian MacLise, 
who was recognized as the incarnation of a high Tibetan Buddhist lama 
at the age of seven, in Kathmandu. MacLise was born in Massachusetts, 



Reincarnation in Local Space and A*C*G Maps 109 




Ai Ds Ic 



Figure 14 - Ossian MacLise, detail of A*C*G and Local Space map 

of Western parents who were interested in Tibetan Buddhism. Shortly 
after his birth the whole family had moved to Kathmandu in Nepal. While 
walking past a monastery, the young child ran into the courtyard and 
began speaking Tibetan with the other young monks. Shortly afterwards, 
elder monks were dispatched to find him in Western Massachusetts, but 
he was already in their monastery ! 

We see that his Venus is at 8° Capricorn (dated 1758 AD) and that 
his LS-VE 4 and A*C*G VE-IC both pass through Lhasa, the capital of 
Tibet, as does his action-packed A*C*G MA- AS. He also has JU-AS 
and UR-AS A*C*G lines (dated 1639 AD) passing through Kathmandu, 
where he spent much of his early life and where he was 'discovered' 
(See Figure 1 4). I have a suspicion that this is when and where his Tibetan 
Buddhist lineage was established. 



1 10 From Here to There 




Figure 15 - Guiseppe Verdi birth chart 

Giuseppe Verdi 

The great opera composer Giuseppe Verdi's (1813-1901) most famous 
opera is Aida, which tells a tale of an Ethiopian princess during the 
Ethiopian Wars with Egypt. JU at 2° Virgo in his horoscope registers 
around 700BC and A*C*G JU/IC aligns with the western deserts of Egypt. 
See Figure 15, Verdi's birth chart and also Figure 16, which shows a 
Moon-Saturn paran in orb (less than one degree in latitude) from Mit 
Ruhaynah, the site of the ancient city of Memphis. It was here where 
Aida was enslaved, hiding both her true royal identity and her love for 
the Egyptian warrior Radames, Moon-Saturn paran latitudes have been 
associated with the 'cautious heart', where a reluctance to show true 
feelings may be necessary for one's survival. 5 



Reincarnation in Local Space and A*C*G Maps 1 1 1 




—H$ 






^^^_^^^^ 







Figure 16 - Guiseppe Verdi, detail of A*C*G map 



There are many more examples of the correspondences between historical 
individuals who felt previous incarnations that guided them through their 
lives, but test them and see where and when your historical roots lie. 

©ATMann2007. 



A TMann is an architect, astrologer, artist, teacher, designer and author. 
His twenty books explore time, astrology, calendar systems, symbolism, 
tarot, dowsing, healing, reincarnation, sacred architecture and sacred 
sexuality. Tad practices many arts: astrology and tarot; Feng Shui and 
sacred architecture; the sacred arts and design education. He worked 
with Mystic Fire Video on the D VD of the Dalai Lama I Kalachakra Tantra 
Teachings and is a founder/ partner of UniversalQuest. com .His website 
is: http:llwww.atmann.net 



1 1 2 From Here to There 

Chart Data and Sources (in alphabetical order) 

Napoleon Buonaparte, 15August 1769, 09:14AM LMT, Ajaccio, Corsica. Italy 

(Source: Cirkels, Jan Kampherbeek, Schors, Amsterdam, 1980.) 
Robert Graves, 24 July 1895, 17:00PM GMT, Wimbledon, England (Source: 

The American Book of Charts, Lois Rodden, 1980.) 
Thor Heyerdahl, 6 October 1914, 16:40 PM MET, Larvik, Norway. (Source: 

The American Book of Charts, Lois Rodden, 1980.) 
Ossian MacLise, 21 November 1968, 15:26 PM EST, Great Barrington, MA 

(Source: Birth Certificate from his parents.) 
Thomas Mann, 6 June 1875, 12: 15 PM LMT, Lubeck, Germany (Source: Thomas 

Mann Diaries, Andre Deutsch, London, 1984.) 
Pablo Picasso, 25 Oct 1881, 23:15 PM LMT, Malaga, Spain (Source: The 

American Book of Charts, Lois Rodden, 1980.) 
Giuseppe Verdi, lOOctober 1813, 08:00PM LMT, Parma Italy (Source: Cirkels, 

Jan Kampherbeek, Schors, Amsterdam, 1980.) 

NOTES 

L The Divine Life: Astrology and Reincarnation is a combination of Life 

Time Astrology and The Divine Plot and is available as an eBook published 
by the author. See his website: www.atmann.net . 

2. Mann, Thomas, Joseph and His Brothers, Knopf, 1944,New York,p.231. 

3. See Mann's book: The Divine Plot: Astrology and Reincarnation, pp .235-7. 

4. It is noted that his Local Space VE line directly connects his birth location 
with Lhasa, the capital of Tibet. MacLise's natal VE is in his 9th house of 
religious and philosophical study and long-distance travel. In Capricorn, 
it speaks of the love of tradition and ceremony. 

5. See John Townley's MO-SAparan text in the Horizons computer program 
by Matrix software. 



8 

Looking at the World Geodetically 
Chris McRae 



Chris McRae s book. The Geodetic World Map, brought the geodetic 
technique to the attention of the astrological community in 1988. 
Developedfrom the Geodetic Equivalent Theory ofSepharial, it was 
another unique and innovative contribution to locality astrology popping 
up at that time, supported by advances in computer technology. McRae 
lectures widely on this subject and is considered the leading light in the 
field. 

The Geodetic Equivalent (GE) concept is an effective way of 
systematically assigning the zodiac to locations on Earth for use in making 
political or geophysical predictions, as well as for ascertaining how a 
person feels or functions in a given location. For that purpose we 
essentially have a specific and unique house cusp structure for each and 
every geographic location, into which we can insert natal planetary 
positions, current transits, lunations and/or eclipses. As shown below, 
the Midheaven and ascending angles, at any location, can be plotted on a 
map for a quick analysis. 

To determine the specific Midheaven for any geographic location, 
the zodiac is stretched eastward from Greenwich, each longitude degree 
representing a corresponding zodiacal degree commencing at degrees 
Aries. In other words, degrees Greenwich translates to a GE Midheaven 
of degrees Aries. Berlin, with a geographic longitude of 02°E20', would 
have a Geodetic Midheaven of 02°20' Aries. Likewise, Moscow, with a 
geographic longitude of 37°E35' would have a Midheaven of 7°35' Taurus. 
New York is situated at 73°W57'. We could move forward from Greenwich 
or backwards in the zodiac to determine New York's Midheaven at 16°03 T 
Capricorn. You can see that fairly closely even on a small map. (See 



114 From Here to There 




Figure 1 - Geodetic World Map. The Midheavens run north and south on the 
map and you can observe the Zodiacal signs marked across the top of the 

graphic. 



Looking at the World Geodetically 1 1 5 

Figure 1, Geodetic World map.) Once a Midheaven is ascertained, the 
Ascendant is derived from the geographic latitude of any location. This 
can be done manually in a Table of Houses or by computer. Note from 
the map that, in most instances, the Ascendant lines angle across the 
Midheaven lines with Aries rising, beginning at 90 degrees west 
geographic longitude and moving through the zodiacal signs in 30 degree 
segments in an easterly direction. For clarification, please note that Spain 
is enclosed in a Cancer Ascendant, as is a segment running through Africa. 

With such a map, one can easily see where transits, eclipses or 
other planets are geodetically effective anywhere on Earth. Coordinates 
for constructing a geodetic map can be found in my book, The Geodetic 
World Map? 

Geodetics was used by various mundane astrologers during the 
early 1900s, then slid from use until it was again popularized by this 
book, which plotted the Geodetic angles on a world map making the 
concept recognizable to many. Since the publication of the book in 1988 ? 
I have lectured widely on the subject, bringing it to the attention of many 
astrologers who have found it very useful in both their personal and 
mundane studies. 

Country Rulerships 

As we look at the map, it is easy to understand why, over the ages, since 
the time that Ptolemy assigned signs to countries, that it has been difficult 
to assign a specific sign to a country as large as Russia. We can see that it 
has six different Midheavens, stretching across its vast region, and four 
different Ascendants. Canada, with the second largest landmass in the 
world, next only to Russia, has four Midheavens and seven Ascendants. 
No wonder the country has difficulty expressing its national identity. 
The United States has the third largest landmass, and has four Midheavens 
and seven Ascendants. There is little doubt that the eastern part of both 
Canada and the United States are much more traditional in their thinking 
and habits under their Capricorn Midheaven, while getting freer in 
expectation and habit going west with a Sagittarius Midheaven. In fact, 
there was a saying, "go west young man and make your fortune"/ 

The Midheaven of a nation or locality represents how the 
inhabitants wish others to see them, their reputation, and what they 



1 1 6 From Here to There 

collectively deem most important. The Ascendant symbolizes their 
collective attitude and how they express themselves. We could use this 
theme to view a country from the geodetic cusps of their capital city, or 
we can relate other factors of a city with its distinctive characteristics. 
For instance, Las Vegas, the gambling capital of the world, has a Geodetic 
Sagittarius Midheaven (gaming) and a Geodetic Aquarius Ascendant (Las 
Vegas' casino architecture is eclectic, unique and eccentric; visitors there 
can be seen as independent, free spirits). Tokyo, with a geodetic Scorpio 
Midheaven and Leo Ascendant, has distinctive features in this regard. It 
has often been called "The Land of the Rising Sun", and the Tokyo Stock 
Exchange is renowned as being the most powerful money market in the 
world. The western seacoast of Europe with its watery Pisces geodetic 
Midheaven and Cancer Ascendant is reported to have the most and best 
seaports in the entire world. As you scan the globe from a geodetic point 
of view, you will be able to correlate many cities and regions with the 
symbolism of their geodetic angles. 

Geodetics for Personal Relocation 

We know important events occur when planets are in angular positions. 
We can use the geodetic map to see visually where planets fall into angles 
on it. However, it is also advantageous to set up a personal chart inserted 
into the geodetic cusps of a location for a fuller analysis. You will note 
the natal chart of Sir Edmund Hillary, 4 Figure 2. 

We are more interested in observing his planets, so we can see 
their effect in a geodetic location, than we are in studying the placement 
by house in a natal chart interpretation, but this chart does, nevertheless, 
have relevance to his life. We can observe the energy, dedication and 
commitment from his Mars/Pluto conjunction with a Uranus trine, as 
well as the powerful transformative effect he had upon Nepal over his 
lifetime. This combination should also be notable for a mountain climber. 
Hillary's Sun/Jupiter in the 9 th would certainly indicate world acclaim 
and his knighthood, his Mercury /Saturn conjunction, in the 10 th house of 
this chart, ruling the 8 th , 11 th and 3 rd , would exemplify the education he 
brought to the area and the transformation it created. In fact, he built 
over thirty schools, two hospitals, twelve medical clinics, and also built 
bridges and reforested. He built an airstrip so he could fly in and out 



Looking at the World Geodetically 1 1 7 




Figure 2 - Natal Chart for Sir Edmund Hillary, 20 July 1919, Papakura, NZ, 
12:30pm local time. Rodden DD. 

from his various fundraising expeditions, and to bring in supplies. Sadly, 
Hillary's wife was killed in a plane crash while landing on this field. 

We will now look at his natal planets inserted into the geodetic 
cusps for the location of Mount Everest. See Figure 3. This tells us about 
his specific, personal relationship with that location. Please note that the 
natal Ascendant and MC are not included due to the uncertainty of his 
birth time. If known they could be inserted into the GE cusps as well. 

Note the proximity of the powerful Mars/Pluto conjunction on the 
MC, as well as the angular Sun/Jupiter conjunction. The Mars/Pluto 
conjunction forms a trine with Uranus in the 6 th house in Pisces, indicating 
that Hillary used his strong will to improve the living conditions of the 



118 From Here to There 




Figure 3 - Geodetic Chart of Sir Edmund at Everest 

people in the region. It became his life's work, as previously indicated. 
In this instance we can use cusps with confidence because they are not 
the uncertain natal cusps but known geodetic ones. 

It should now be interesting to see the whole geodetic world map 
using Sir Edmund Hillary's natal planets where they appear on the map 
angles. (See Figure 4.) 

Now we can clearly see the global area of influence from his Mars/ 
Pluto conjunction. Note, it is within proximity to his GE Midheaven at 
Mount Everest. The Ascendant of this planetary combination runs in the 
vicinity of his birthplace, as well as Sydney and Melbourne, Australia, 
where he often went to raise funds for the wonderful work he was doing. 

Also note that the Sun/Jupiter conjunction geodetic Ascendant line 
runs right through England where he was honored and knighted by the 
Queen of England. 



Looking at the World Geodetically 119 



fi$ ^f ^4^ 30 Si O 




Figure 4 - Geodetic World Map with Sir Edmund's natal planets 



120 From Here to There 

Geodetics for Mundane Astrology in determining global hot spots 

In mundane astrology, one needs a reference or structure as well as tools 
to work with. We do have a choice of systems, as follows: 

1 . Chart of a nation 

2. The corresponding Astro*Carto*Graphy map of the nation's 

chart 

3. Four cardinal ingress charts per year 

4. Geodetic equivalents. 

Tools, of course, would include transits, great conjunctions, 5 
progressions, eclipses and lunations. 

This chapter is focusing on the geodetic equivalent. The map is 
exceptionally handy for observing where a powerful eclipse or other 
planetary influence will have its greatest impact. It may indicate a powerful 
storm if it is within a hurricane, tornado or cyclone area. It may indicate 
a political disturbance if such an event is ready to shift. It may be a 
geophysical disruption, again, if the region is prone to such activity. 

It is noteworthy to look at the eclipses that influenced the Gulf of 
Mexico, the Caribbean, and Florida during the year 2005. That year 
witnessed the most number 5 intensity hurricanes since 1960 and had the 
most major hurricanes since 1954. Katrina raced into the Gulf, stormed 
into New Orleans and up the Mississippi River from August 21-31, 2005, 
ranging in intensity from a number 2 to a number 5 hurricane. Damage 
was estimated as the most ever, at $100 billion plus. Then, on October 
27 th ' along came Wilma that devastated the resort areas of the Caribbean. 
Wilma was reported to be the strongest hurricane in recorded history. 

Eclipses can signal such events and when they fall on or in geodetic 
angles where storms are likely to occur, that is an easy prediction to 
make. There are two eclipse seasons in a year, producing no less than 
two solar eclipses a little less than six months apart. I have observed that 
any pair less than 10 degrees apart in opposition, increases the power 
along a global range of those few degrees. Then one would look across 
the map to see where those degrees would be in an angle. Let's see how 
this works in practice. 

It is important to note that from December 2001, eclipses traveled 
across Gemini and Sagittarius alternatively until the end of 2003. There 



Looking at the World Geodetically 121 

were no eclipses in the signs of Taurus/Scorpio this time around the zodiac 
as they move backwards through the signs. They went from Gemini/ 
Sagittarius right into Aries leading into the devastating year of hurricanes 
that swept across the Atlantic into the Gulf of Mexico. The following is a 
list of these Aries eclipses: 

April 19,2004 Partial Solar 29°50' Aries GMT 13:34:05 

October 14, 2004 Partial Solar 21 °06 r Libra GMT 2:59:22 
April 08, 2005 Annular Total 19°06' Aries GMT 20:35:50 
October 3, 2004 Annular Total 10°19' Libra GMT 10:32:46 
(This is by far the longest in the series being the only one to date 
that lasted over a minute at 4 minutes, 3 1 Seconds. I believe duration 
affects the strength of an eclipse.) 

March 29, 2006 Total 8°35 r Aries GMT 10:11:21 

The next eclipse in the year 2006 shifted to mutable but it is 
noteworthy partly because its obscuration period is a whopping 7 minutes 
09 Seconds, and secondly, because it still has influence within the Aries 
group. According to NASA, this eclipse was one of the longest possible 
in the annals of eclipses. 

September 22, 2006 Annular 29°20 f Virgo GMT 11:40:15 

The next eclipse was on March 19, 2007. Only a partial, its 
significance was in being at 28°07 r Pisces, which was exceptionally close 
in opposition to the previous one. 6 

One can see by these eclipses that the buildup continues past the 
noteworthy year of 2005, through 2006, which is the year of this article, 
and into the year 2007 . 

Go back now to the geodetic map , Figure 1 , and see that these 
eclipses strongly influence the whole Gulf of Mexico, the Caribbean, 
and, indeed, even inland along the Gulf coastline. On the map, look for 
the area covered by the geodetic Aries Ascendant. Of course the 
corresponding geodetic Descendent, which is not shown, would be Libra. 

Note that the Ascendant of 0° Aries also follows up along an area 
often referred to as "Tornado Alley" , where those storms increased during 
this period, in both frequency and intensity. 



122 



From Here to There 




Figure 5 - Geodetic chart of the massive Sumatra quake and subsequent 

devastating tsunami. 



The opposite geodetic Ascendant of 0° Libra, is located on the 
map at a geographic location of 90 degrees East Longitude in the region 
of Thailand, Sumatra and Malaysia. This would also be the point of an 
angular Ascendant. This is the region where cyclones are more prevalent 
globally than anywhere else. In fact, the great Sumatra Quake (9.0 on the 
Richter Scale) on December 26, 2004 that created such immense 
devastation and loss of life along relevant coastlines, was easily seen 
geodetically by the position of the aforementioned two previous eclipses 
at 29°50' Aries and 21°06' Libra. These eclipses lay across the geodetic 
descendant/ascendant angles, which formed a t-square with the position 
of Saturn at the time of the quake.See Figure 5, which is the geodetic 



Looking at the World Geodetically 1 23 

chart for the epicenter of the quake. Then refer back to Figure 1, The 
geodetic map, and observe where the 0° Libra Ascendant is located, which 
starts at geographic longitude of 90 degrees East. The Descendant would 
be 0° Aries which is not shown on the map itself, but is assumed as the 
opposite point of the Ascendant. 

The Life of Amelia Earhart, as seen both Geodetically and with 
Astro * Car to* Gr aphy 

Let us start with a brief biography and the natal chart (see Figure 6) of 
this amazing woman pioneer aviator, lecturer and author who broke 
several records in the annals of aviation history. Various locations pertinent 




l9 a S00' 



Figure 6 -Amelia Earhart, July 24, 1897, 11 :30pm, CST, Atchison, KS, USA. 
Rodden rating A, from memory (AstroDataBank). 



J 24 From Here to There 

to her life are mentioned, so you can observe where her natal planets fall 
in both the Astro*Carto*Graphy and geodetic maps that will follow 
(Figures 7 and 8). This will allow us a comparison of the two relevant 
systems in this type of (locational) astrology. 

Earhart's early years were far from ideal, with significant mother 
problems and an alcoholic father. However, due to helpful relatives and 
much perseverance, she was able to achieve a decent education, but her 
life purpose eluded her until she became captivated with flying. Prior to 
flying, one stint in her life took her to Toronto, Canada, where she was a 
nurse's aid, followed by odd jobs such as a settlement house worker in 
Boston. 

It was in Los Angeles that she took her first flying lessons. Two 
years later she became the first woman to fly across the Atlantic, with 
two other pilots. Flying solo, she later set a transatlantic record. She was 
also the first woman to fly across the Pacific Ocean, setting out from the 
Hawaiian Islands. 

Let's look first at her A*C*G map, Figure 7. There are a multiplicity 
of lines there, supporting new pathways (North Node Ascending) and 
travel - with the help of her navigator, Frederick Noonan (Mercury and 
Sun Descending). We can also note the nearby Saturn and Uranus 
Midheaven lines at the Islands, emphasizing the planning detail and hard 
work required for her journey, as well as the excitement and emancipation 
her journey represented. On the GE map, the Hawaiian Islands are at the 
midpoint of those positions to the east and her Gemini Stellium, 
represented by the Descending lines of Moon, Pluto, Venus and Neptune, 
all to the west (shown on the right hand side of the map to the north of 
Australia). 

On July 2 nd , 1937 she set out on a round-the-world flight with her 
co-pilot, Fred Noonan in an attempt to circumnavigate the globe flying 
along the equator. When they were flying from New Guinea to a scheduled 
stopover on tiny Howland Island (note map position) they disappeared 
and their fate is, to this date, still unknown. The main conspiracy 
speculation of her disappearance has been that their plane either crashed 

o 

or was shot down somewhere around Saipan where there was a Japanese 
air base (note map position) but it is not known where they actually did 
go down. On the other hand, there is evidence that they had an erroneous 



Looking at the World Geodetically 125 




&■■&& &■ ft & 



© c; »• 

m jj it 
Q <t O 



a- 'b 



■ ■ ■ ■ 



Figure 7 -Amelia Earhart, AstroCartoGraphy, Culmin/Anti/Rise/Set 



126 From Here to There 



% S* ftfl» ^ 



i^ 




...:.:.: Q Q Q O 









Figure 8 - Amelia Earhart, Geodetic MC/TC/Asc/Desc 



Looking at the World Geodetically 127 

map putting them about 200 miles off of Howland Island. Noonan had 
received slightly - though fatally - outdated naval maps. The error had 
been corrected but had not worked its way out to publication. Howland 
wasn't where they expected it to be. The National Geographic 
Magazine 9 alludes to this possibility, as does Earhart's biography, The 
Sound of Wings! 

On the GE Map (see Figure 8), the position of Howland Island is 
very close to her Moon/Pluto/Venus/Neptune Stellium of Gemini 
Descendant lines, which are square to Mars and Jupiter in her natal chart, 
adding a dangerous volatility to this planetary mix. Her Mercury/South 
Node/Sun Midheaven lines run down close to the Saipan area, perhaps 
indicating why the 'crashing and being captured by the Japanese' theory 
of her disappearance remains to this day. Her Saturn/Uranus conjunction 
Ascendant line is also close. This is a famous planetary combination of 
tension, perhaps even possible "breaking" or violence. Note on this map 
that her Mercury Descendant line runs right through Los Angeles where 
she learned to fly, and her Saturn/Uranus Midheaven lines are very close. 

As a comparison, now look to these planetary positions on angles 
in the Astro*Carto*Graphy map, Figure 7. You will note similarities of a 
different description. Her Sun, and Mercury Descending and Node 
Ascending lines, as well as her Saturn/Uranus Midheaven lines are 
somewhat in the vicinity of Howland Island, although Saturn/Uranus 
Midheaven line may be a little too far away to be considered significant. 
In the area of Saipan we see a congestion of Mars/Jupiter Midheaven 
lines and Moon/Pluto/Venus/Neptune in Gemini Descendant lines. If you 
look to the position of Los Angeles, where she learned to fly and earned 
an international reputation, you will note the Jupiter Descendant line. 
Running through the vicinity of the Hawaiian Islands from whence she 
flew the Pacific, we see the Sun and Mercury Descending and the ground- 
breaking North Node Ascending line. 

This article is primarily a description and use of geodetic 
equivalents as a framework to relocate a natal chart, or to observe mundane 
events. However, it has also been pointed out that other systems do exist. 
It is obvious that each of these systems must have some merit or they 
would not be used by so many notable astrologers. Each has a purpose 
and each is relevant in our work as astrologers. That is why a comparison 



J 28 From Here to There 

has been shown between these two remarkable systems. One, A*C*G, 
shows where planets are angular and shift according to the chart being 
used. The other, geodetics, shows specific and unique, Earth-generated 
angles, into which planets can be inserted (plotted). 

© Chris McRae 2007. 

Editor's comments: 

The fullest historical exploration of. Earth zodiacs can be found in chapter 
11 of the book, Mundane Astrology. u Other important resources are 
appendix 9 of Nicholas CampionifThe Book of World Horoscopes' 2 and 
Chapter 5 in my book, Astrolocality Astrology." 



NOTES 

1 . The Geodetic World Map, I.I. Chris McRae, published by AFA, AZ, USA, 
1988. 

2. Ibid, page 114, McRae also offers an accurate and beautifully printed 
Geodetic World Map, 3' x 5' wall size. For your own copy, email her at: 
cmcrae @ interbaun .com 

3. "Go West Young Man", Indiana newspaper writer John Soule's 1851 
advice, would be popularized by Horace Greeley and serve as the mantra 
for nineteenth Century American migration. 

4. Hillary's data is rated DD in Astro Data Bank, as there are conflicting 
stated times. One source does give 12:30pm, however, and it is reported 
that his mother said the birth time was between Noon and 1pm that day, 
making the 12:30pm time a reasonable mid-range possibility. Some 
astrologers have proposed that geodetic angles be used for the location of 
birth when a birth time is unsure or completely unknown. 

5. Great Conjunctions are conjunctions of planets from Jupiter outward. 
Conjunctions of Jupiter and Saturn are the original Great Conjunctions. 

6. This article was written before March 2007, so no specific event could 
be tied to it at that time. 

7. Howland Island, Oceania, is in the North Pacific Ocean, about halfway 
between Hawaii and Australia. 

Location: Longitude 176W38, Latitude 0N48. 

8. Saipan is part of the Mariana Island chain of Micronesia. Longitude 
145E75, Latitude 15N25. 

9. National Geographic, January 1998, "Amelia Earhart", by Virginia 
Morell. 



Looking at the World Geodetically 129 

10. The Sound of Wings, by Mary S. Lovell, Hutchinson, London, 1991. 

11. Mundane Astrology, by Baigent, Campion and Harvey, Aquarian Press, 
UK, 1984. 

12. The Wessex Astrologer, UK, 2004 - updated regularly. 

13. Astrolocality Astrology , The Wessex Astrologer, UK, 1999. 

Bibliography 

The Geodetic World Map, I.I. Chris McRae, published by AFA, 1988. 
Planetary Phenomena, Neil Michelson, ACS, 1990. 
AstroDataBank computer program for chart data and biographies. 
Biography.com website for biographies. 

The Geodetic World Map, 3' x 5' wall size is only available from Chris McRae. 
She can be contacted at: cmcrae@interbaun.com 



Would Relocation Change Your life? 
A Look at Astrology's Answers 1 

Donna Cunningham, MSW 

Donna Cunningham is a noted international astrologer whose extensive 
writing and lecturing have been important contributions to the 
Astrolocality field. She is the originator of the core locality aphorism, 
"Wherever you go, you take yourself along" . Cunningham is active in 
the web y s central A*C*G* resource, www.ContinumnACG.net . In this 
chapter she asks if relocation can change our lives. 

A major geographic move is a huge displacement in your life and ranks 
high on the lists of stressful situations published from time to time. It is 
not something to be entered into lightly, for even the best of moves require 
an intense adjustment period of at least a year. You would want to read 
about your chosen location in Places Rated Almanac, a reference book 
that belongs in any astrologer's library. On the Internet, you also have a 
number of great tools for researching and getting to know any given area 
you might be considering. 

However, astrology itself - particularly the branch known as 
locational astrology - provides helpful tools for making an informed 
decision about where and when to move. Locational astrology techniques 
can take much of the guesswork out of moving, especially the highly 
sophisticated tool of Astro*Carto*Graphy or other computerized maps 
that show the spots on earth where the various natal (or progressed) planets 
come onto the four chart angles (Midheaven, Ascendant, Descendant or 
IC). Working with this tool, I am often surprised at how many people are 
instinctively drawn to spots that are excellent for them - although others, 
with less trustworthy instincts, are strongly drawn to spots that represent 
their own worst nightmares. 



Would Relocation Change Your Life 131 

The first consideration in relocation work is how accurate the birth time 
might be. Astro*Carto*Graphy and other locational astrology techniques 
are not forgiving of birth time errors. A time of 3:20pm, for instance, 
looks promising, as it seems less likely to be a rounded-off estimate than 
3:30pm would be. With a rounded off or vague birth time, some 
rectification may be required, and though a good rectification can be 
costly, so can a move that is several hundred miles off target! 

Transits: The Moving Force Behind a Move 

Transits are usually the stimulus for a major geographic change. Moving 
to a new home may be part of what happens under a transit to the natal 
Moon, the 4 th house cusp (IC), through the 4 th house, or aspecting a natal 
planet in the 4 lh . Such transits are the primary triggers for changes in 
residence. Relocation goes more smoothly under a trine, with the Moon/ 
Uranus trine being the swiftest and the least hassle. Amove under a Moon/ 
Saturn trine, however, is more organized and more likely to be permanent. 
Under a Moon/Uranus or Uranus/IC aspect of any kind, you might as 
well keep nonessentials packed in their boxes, as you're likely to move 
more than once during the two or three aspects you will generally 
experience from transiting Uranus. Under Moon/Neptune transits, you're 
probably not thinking things through carefully enough and may regret 
the decision - do not buy a house until the transit passes. You're not so 
much moving to something as moving away from something because 
you've become disillusioned. Your fantasies about a wonderful new life 
tend to be unrealistic. 

Generally speaking, when life conditions change dramatically at 
the time of a move, the change is not just due to the location but also the 
timing. You will probably find a similar message in transits to both the 
birth and the relocated charts. Often, someone who moves during an 
important transit is drawn to the exact area where that transiting planet is 
on one of the four angles. For instance, many 28-30 year olds who are 
undergoing their Saturn return seem unerringly drawn to an area where 
Saturn is on one of the angles. They are drawn to a place where the 
energies of Saturn are maximized. Whatever the planet, under transits 
like these, the new location makes the issues and lessons of that planet 



132 From Here to There 

even more pressing to resolve - you might say it forces the issue - but 
that is not generally a good place to stay for any length of time. 

A smooth move is a combination of two things: the right time and 
the right place. You may hit one of them and not the other; for instance, 
the location may be promising but the timing may stink! Timing is 
important even when moving to a positive location. Don't move when 
nothing is happening to your Moon, IC, or 4 th house planets, or when 
Neptune or Saturn are aspecting them. If you do, you could just sit and 
spin your wheels for a costly year or two. Cyclo*Carto*Graphy, derived 
from the natal Astro*Carto*Graphy map, is the best clue to understanding 
why a location may be promising at one stage of your life and not at 
another. 

"Wherever You Go, You Take Yourself Along" 

When considering a move based on your map, it is important to refer to 
the birth chart for interpretation. Suppose you are thinking of moving to 
one of your Venus lines, generally considered the best places in the world 
to find love, believing it will improve your chances in relationships. First, 
you have to consider what your own natal Venus is like. If natal Venus 
has difficult aspects, then any undesirable long-standing patterns in 
relationships would be not only active but intensified there. For example, 
if you were born with Pluto on Descendant squaring Venus, and you 
move off the Pluto line to a place where Venus is on the angle, you are 
only increasing the strength of that already challenged Venus. In fact, 
now you probably have Pluto square the local angle. You'd be better off 
picking one of the Descendant lines, like Sun or Jupiter on the Descendant, 
if love were your goal. 

Another example might be relocating to improve career potentials. 
You might expect that Jupiter or the Sun on the Midheaven would be an 
excellent choice. Suppose, however, that natally Neptune closely squares 
Jupiter. If you moved to your Jupiter/Midheaven line, you would at the 
same time be moving to a spot where Neptune squared the local 
Midheaven - an aspect that is easy to miss, and, under which, it is harder 
to diagnose a possible undertow of self-sabotage. Difficult conjunctions 
or oppositions in the natal chart can present a special blockage in 
relocation, for wherever one of the pair is on an angle the other one is as 



Would Relocation Change Your Life 1 33 

well. Thus highlighting that pair of planets by placing them on the MC or 
IC would not be a good career move. 

Difficult aspects and placements in the birth chart represent ways 
that we create our own difficulties, so analyzing the behaviors represented 
by those astrological factors is essential to a successful relocation. What 
you need to consider is that your self-defeating attitudes and behaviors 
go right along with you when you move, so if the problems you are 
having in the old location are mostly of your own making, they will be 
with you in the new one as well. 

You may get a temporary break from them, given new people and 
unfamiliar circumstances in which you are on your best behavior: a kind 
of honeymoon period. However, unless you have well and truly learned 
whatever lesson is involved and healed whatever wounds or patterns you 
kept tripping over in the old place, the old patterns will eventually creep 
back in the new location. Thus, if you entertain the thought of a move, 
you need also to examine your contributions to recurrent problems 
honestly. Take responsibility for shaping a new reality for yourself in the 
new location through new attitudes, behaviors, and relationship strategies. 
However, suppose that you have been working on yourself and have 
truly changed, and yet the people and situations in the old place have 
become so entrenched that they cannot allow you to be different and to 
grow. In situations like these, then a major change in location can give 
you the space to create a new reality. This is particularly true of long- 
standing roles that family or others around you have assigned you (Family 
Mess-Up, for instance, or Saviour of Us All), roles that you are no longer 
willing to fulfil. A whole new set of people will not have the same 
expectations, so you have room to grow. 

Consider Your Motive in Moving 

Sometimes we relocate for the wrong reasons, and when we do, we are 
likely to make costly errors in judgement. An ill-considered move can be 
a major roadblock in our lives. While the transiting planet involved shows 
the circumstances of the move, the real question is why are you doing it? 
It is generally due to an important shift in the lunar areas of life. Often, 
the reason is that the womb has gotten too confining. As a young adult, 
you leave your parents' house to go out on your own, or maybe with a 



1 34 From Here to There 

partner. Sometimes, because any aspect to the IC is simultaneously an 
aspect to the MC, either you or your partner may find a job in a new 
place. Maybe you have a family now and the house has gotten too small. 
Or, your family has grown up, and you don't need so much space. The 
Moon waxes and wanes, all within a life cycle. The pressure to leave the 
womb precedes the relocation. There is a lunar realignment before the 
move, followed by a long adjustment to the new home. 

It has been especially interesting to me to observe what happens 
when people are struck by nostalgia and think along the line of a 
pilgrimage to their roots - maybe even moving back home with the folks 
for a time. This type of pilgrimage generally comes about with a major 
transit to the Moon, the IC/MC axis, or a 4 th house planet by Saturn, 
Chiron, Uranus, Neptune, or Pluto. (When more than one of those points 
is impacted by transits, it is even more of a rite of passage). I forget who 
said that you can't go home again, perhaps Thomas Wolfe. That ringing 
phrase has become part of conventional wisdom, the sort of truism that 
people love to utter. 

Like most bits of conventional wisdom, it is wrong as often as it is 
right. In observing people over these past 35 years - clients, friends, 
colleagues, and acquaintances - I've repeatedly been struck by how 
profoundly they are affected by returning home after a long absence. 
Often it is a deep healing of old wounds, especially when the Inner Child 
is still stuck in seeing the parents as all-powerful, spending time with 
elderly parents can provide a reality check. They become just people, 
maybe mellower or frailer and thus finally seen as life sized rather than 
the giants our unconscious makes them into. Often, based on exposure to 
the people your parents have become, you can begin to forgive them for 
what they did to you 30 or 40 years ago, and that forgiveness can be a 
great healing. Even if you cannot forgive, the experience of confronting 
them and seeing their humanness can be empowering. Yes, You can go 
home again, but you'll never be the same! 

Often, major moves will entail purchasing a house, so I also look 
into the effect of transits on that particular decision. Buying a home, 
especially the first one, is a rite of passage into adulthood. Having a 
home of your own gives you a greater sense of security, roots, and 
belonging - for lunar types, especially. Moon/Saturn and Moon/Pluto 



Would Relocation Change Your Life 135 

aspects are the most likely to involve actual purchases of real estate, 
although Pluto as often accompanies major remodeling efforts. With 
Moon/Saturn or Saturn to the MH/IC, a home of your own may be the 
result of well-earned success. You may be conservative in your purchase. 
You may settle for something smaller or less luxurious than you'd like, 
because you are being realistic about not taking on too hard of a financial 
commitment. 

With some Moon/Pluto contacts, the new house may be financed 
by something other than your own efforts. The source could be an 
inheritance, a gift or bribe from your parents with strings attached, a 
trust fund, or a divorce settlement - or, it may be a last-ditch effort to 
keep the marriage together. If you've suffered losses during this phase, 
take time to mourn the end of one chapter in your life. The grief may be 
intensified by a period of isolation in the new location. 

If you buy property under a Neptune transit to the Moon or other 
points listed above, you probably haven't inspected the cellar or 
foundations. The realtor saw you coming, and you may have a lemon on 
your hands for a good, long time. What to do about it? Ah, well, it would 
be reprehensible of me to suggest you find a buyer who is also under a 
Moon/Neptune aspect, wouldn't it? Maybe you could donate it to the 
church, your guru, or some charitable organization. Or, hang in there for 
whatever deep spiritual lessons it may teach you - like the one about not 
signing anything you haven't read and understood. 

What Relocation Charts Can and Cannot Do For You 

You would want an Astro*Carto*Graphy or other computerized map if 
you are moving more than 500 miles east or west of your birthplace. 
Especially if you have no idea where you want to live, this tool can help 
you find optimal locations for business, love, home life, health, and travel. 
It can also help you avoid really serious relocation mistakes, like moving 
to a place where Saturn, Neptune, or Pluto fall on an angle. While you 
may want to order such a map from the various places that offer them, 
relocation is not a do-it-yourself project. Getting an Astro*Carto*Graphy 
printout can help you narrow down choices, but for all the complexities 
of the map you really need the advice of a trained Astro*Carto*Graphy 
professional, one who will take into account the natal chart features it 



1 36 From Here to There 

reflects. While such services may entail a fee of $100-$250, moving itself 
is extremely costly in life force energy, finances, and other resources. 3 
Know that a geographic change cannot offset an important transit to the 
natal chart, though it might mitigate it somewhat or strengthen a supportive 
astrological aspect. Under a major outer planet transit to a natal placement, 
people often spontaneously gravitate to a place that puts that natal planet 
(or the transiting planet) on an angle, to intensify it for purposes best 
known to their higher self. 

It would be important to have a relocated chart calculated as well, 
showing the new Midheaven, Ascendant, Descendant, and IC and any 
aspects natal planets form to them. (I do not experience the relocated 
house positions as overriding the natal interpretation). You need to 
scrutinize the resulting chart carefully to make sure you're not fooling 
yourself. You may move to a place where the locational angles are aspected 
by difficult planets. Suppose your motive is to get away from a difficult 
outer planet line at your birthplace. Did you really get away from that 
outer planet, or is it now aspecting a different angle? For instance, suppose 
you have Pluto natally conjunct Midheaven, only to find out that now 
you're living in a place where it squares the local Ascendant. In other 
words, I don't believe an individual can always cheat their fate by a 
move. In fact, this issue reminds me of that old song from the Seventies, 
Games People Play, which went, "They're gonna teach you how to 
meditate, read your horoscope and cheat your fate". 

You would want to watch the transits to the angles of the relocated 
chart, also, as these transits have a strong, though not permanent effect. 
Suppose you move to a place where you have Aquarius on the Midheaven, 
and Neptune will be crossing back and forth over that Midheaven for 
two or three years. You are likely to have a devil of a time establishing 
yourself career wise. That transit to the local Midheaven would be 
particularly important if you were already sensitized to Neptune by natal 
impact on career houses. In considering going to a place where Neptune 
is emphasized, you may fool yourself into believing that what is coming 
is spiritual, creative, and therefore wonderful, but it may still mean several 
years of floating in space. 

Relocation astrology becomes more complex the more people there 
are in a household. Often a desired location is excellent for one partner 



Would Relocation Change Your Life 137 

but the pits for the other. Or, it suits both parents fairly well but is a 
disaster for one or more of the kids. Especially when business is calling 
a family to that spot, situations like these become a very hard life decision. 
You can find out interesting things about the dynamics of a family, 
however, by comparing their relocation prospects. I have sometimes done 
relocation work for couples in which many regions of United States were 
promising career- wise for the wife, but none for the husband. Relocating 
abroad to satisfy the needs of both partners is not always feasible. In 
cases like these, explaining the situation in astrological terms has made it 
less frustrating for the couple to understand and deal with a role reversal 
in which the wife is likely to be more successful than the husband. 
Astrology is a superb tool for gaining detachment and letting go of 
needlessly blaming oneself or another for things that just are. 

Getting Out of Dodge: Can Relocation Help the Outer Planet 
Person? 

Outer Planet People (OPPs) are those with more than one of the outer 
planets emphasized in their birth charts, especially those with the outer 
planets on one or more chart angles. 4 If you have an outer planet on the 
angles natally, locations far east or west of your birthplace can change 
your life and career in very important ways. With Uranus, Neptune, or 
Pluto on the Midheaven, for instance your relationships with parents and 
other authority figures have doubtlessly presented an ongoing challenge 
in terms of having the freedom to pursue a fulfilling life work. (As 
mentioned earlier, this technique is not forgiving of birth time errors, and 
when dealing with such powerful planetary forces, you need to be exact. 
However, those with outer planets on the Ascendant natally have often 
had dramatic birth circumstances and other dramatic events that make it 
easy to check whether the birth time is in the ballpark). 

I hear from many OPPs who have struggled a lifetime with the 
complications an outer planet on an angle can entail. Having one on the 
Ascendant, for instance, can color their social connections with everyone 
they meet. Since mainstream individuals often have little clue about what 
to do with their own outer planets, they tend to be very reactive and 
rejecting when encountering a person who wears one of these planets as 
an outer garment. Consistently being treated this way can be alienating 



138 From Here to There 

in the extreme. Moving half a continent away can mean getting out from 
under familial parental pressures and the projections of everyone around 
you so that you can start over afresh. But as we've discussed already, 
leaving home won't change all your problems so you can't avoid the 
work you need to do on your use of the outer planets, or the same patterns 
will catch up with you. 

Suppose you don't have an outer planet on an angle natally, but 
the outer planets are strong in your chart in other ways. If the outer planets 
represent our genius - those ways we help ourselves and the collective to 
move beyond everyday reality - then could it not be argued that the OPP 
needs to move to where those planets are on the line? Should you not, in 
fact, put that planet on the locational Midheaven if you want your 
contribution to be recognized by the world? Still, you have to ask yourself 
if you are not biting off far more than you can chew, maybe even asking 
for a broken tooth or two. If Pluto, for instance, is strong in your birth 
chart, it will always be a strong part of you, but do you want to make it 
even more dominant by living in a place where you can never get away 
from its pressures? Since Plutonian types are prone to becoming the targets 
of other people's projections, would you want to live in a spot where 
others are continually projecting their disowned Pluto qualities onto you? 
Is that even safe? 

Before making such a choice, assess how purely and how 
consistently constructively you are using the energies of the outer planet 
in question. Be honest with yourself, for when you intensify the energies 
by moving to a line on the map where that planet is angular, keeping it all 
in balance may become far more difficult. It becomes harder not to crash 
and burn dramatically. You will doubtlessly also find yourself surrounded 
by others of the same type - a mixed blessing, since it can be wonderful 
to find like-minded souls, but you'd also have to monitor your associates' 
expressions of those energies carefully, as they can pull you toward the 
negative expressions. As long as you are going to the considerable effort 
and expense of moving, you might instead wish to emphasize a more 
solidly grounded part of your chart. 



Would Relocation Change Your Life 139 

The Outer Planet Person: City Mouse or Country Mouse? 
Certainly there are individual differences, but it is my observation that 
the various outer planet types thrive in certain types of locales and are 
miserable in others, depending on the nature of the highlighted planet. 
Except for Neptunians, who are extremely sensitive to their environment, 
OPP often thrive in larger cities, where they are less apt to fall under the 
scrutiny of small-minded others and more likely to meet like-minded 
folks. 

Uranians love the glitter and excitement of big city life, where 
they can stay abreast of all the newest trends, like seeing the newest film 
releases immediately. They love the intellectual stimulation and the 
concentration of bright, innovative, and often quirky thinkers. They finally 
have a chance to have a group around them who thinks like they do. 
Here, they find true peers who validate their counter-culture ways, so 
that they can be who they are without shame or social pressure to conform. 
(They may handle small town life better now with Internet access to the 
myriad of groups and email lists that flourish on the net). The less evolved 
Uranian loves excitement for its own sake. 

Plutonians, too, may be happier in large cities, where they can 
have the privacy and anonymity they crave. They are often singled out or 
ostracized in small towns for their differences and even for their power, 
since nothing remains a secret in such places. All is judged and 
remembered. The less evolved Plutonian likes cities for the sleaze, 
especially the license to engage in sexuality compulsively and 
anonymously, without continually tripping over their discarded conquests 
on the town square. 

Neptunians may not do so well in large cities, especially those 
who have become psychically and environmentally sensitive (as often 
happens under Neptune transits to the 6 th , 1 st , or 12 th houses). Psychic 
sponges, they can become hyper-reactive to noise, neighbors, crowds, 
environmental toxins, and other disturbances in the force. As they become 
increasingly sensitive, they may not be able to handle cities any more 
and may need to go to a remote place where meditation and other spiritual 
practices are made easier. They thrive on quiet spaces to immerse 
themselves in creative pursuits, and they often thrive on being near water. 



140 From Here to There 

Moving Stress? Be Good to Yourself? 

As you can see, relocating isn't just a matter of packing boxes and calling 
a mover. For instance, you may find that while packing, you take an 
intense trip down memory lane. Each object you touch has memories 
and feelings attached, which you may relive. The process of deciding 
what to keep and what to get rid of involves re-evaluating your priorities 
and values. The home is related to the Moon and to the sign Cancer, and 
a move is an immense readjustment in many lunar areas of life, for what 
is more basic than the home? A crab goes through a period of vulnerability 
when it sheds its shell. 

We, too, may feel especially vulnerable for at least a year after a 
move - a complete cycle of lunations. There can even be strong somatic 
reactions, particularly to the stomach or menstrual cycle. In particular, 
lunar types - those with the sign Cancer, the Moon, or the 4 th house 
prominent in their charts - can find relocation distressing. A move is 
nothing to take lightly: it is a major displacement requiring maybe a year 
or longer to recoup those forces and adapt to the new location. Give 
yourself plenty of space to feel the losses and insecurities and to lay 
down roots in the new home. 

© Donna Cunningham 2005 . 

Donna Cunningham, MSW (Columbia University), has been an 
internationally -known professional astrologer for over 40 years, with 
numerous awards, books and classes to her credit. She is listed in several 
Who's Who volumes. For information on her astrological or web design 
services, visit her web site at: http://www.DonnaCunninghamMSW.com . 
Cunningham is now conducting an intermediate level astrology 
correspondence course by email, Chart Interpretation and Synthesis . For 
more information, go to http:llwww.moonmavenpublications.com/ 
correspondancecourse. html 

She has several ebooks which can also be found on her Moon Maven 

publications web site. They include: The Outer Planets and Inner Life, 

Volume 1: The Career Path of The Exceptional Soul, An Astrological 

Guide to Self- Awareness, (2005 Edition), and the book this excerpt comes 

from, Astrological Analysis: Selected Topics in Chart Interpretation. 



Would Relocation Change Your Life 141 

Editor 's note: 

About her own professional travel Cunningham comments: "As a writer 
and international speaker, I've been fascinated with the effects of lines in 
other countries where I've spoken or had books translated into other 
languages. For instance, my book Healing Pluto Problems did extremely 
well in its German version (Pluto Probleme) and for many years earned 
me as much in royalties as the English version. However, when I spoke 
in cities along my Pluto MH line in Germany and Sweden, the audiences 
were very distant and unresponsive. One lecture that had audiences rolling 
in the aisles laughing in England and Ireland (My Sun and Jupiter on the 
MH there) got absolutely no response in Sweden. The sponsors said the 
audience loved it. I said, "Really, how would I know if they hated it." 
They said, "They'd get up and leave." 

In Brazil, my Venus and Uranus are on the MH in all the major 
cities up and down the country. Every book I've ever written has been 
translated into Portuguese and does well there. I've been brought to tour 
three times to enthusiastic audiences, standing ovations, treated like a 
princess, and interviewed in the media. I was even recognized in the 
street once. Needless to say, though my traveling days are over, I'd go 
back there in a heartbeat! 

NOTES 

1 . This article is an excerpt from Donna Cunningham's ebook, Astrological 
Analysis: Selected Readings In Chart Interpretation. To order a copy, 
visit http://www.moonmavenpublications.com 

2. A difference of 13 or 14 minutes, for example, can erroneously place a 
MH or IC line fern one border of a medium sized US state to its other 
side and across into a neighbor's state. 

3. For a list of professional astrologers who are certified in this technique, 
visit the website of Continuum, the organization dedicated to preserving 
the work of the late Jim Lewis and to furthering knowledge of locational 
astrology: http://www.contouumacg.net . On that site, there is also a library 
of articles on this topic. 

4. How does a planet become prominent? The Sun, Moon, Ascendant, or 
Midheaven could be conjunct, square, trine, or opposite that planet. Or, 
the Sun, Moon, Ascendant, or several planets could be in that planet's 
sign. A planet would be strong if it is in a major configuration like a T- 
square, grand trine, or grand cross. It gains strength if it is one of the 
most aspected planets. 



10 

Jyotish 1 Locality 
Dennis Flaherty 



In this chapter, I y m pleased to present an important work by Dennis 
Flaherty. He is one of a group of astrologers who are proficient in both 
Vedic and Western astrology. Much of this article was first published in 
the August-September 1997 issue q/The Mountain Astrologer magazine. 
In it, Flaherty explains how both Eastern and Western systems meet in 
locality, each using the same A*C*G map in their interpretations. Written 
just about two years after Jim Lewis ^passing, he clearly details the basic 
principles of A *C*G and shows how the Vedic perspective can enrich 
our A *C*G studies. 

Ancient Vedic Astrology Meets Modern 
Astro*Carto*Graphy 

Nearly every practicing astrologer has heard of the late Jim Lewis' 
research in relocational astrology trademarked as Astro*Carto*Graphy™ . 
Today's astrologers owe a great debt of gratitude to Jim Lewis and his 
precursors, as he and his kind have forever enriched and changed the 
way we practice astrology. 

Jim Lewis ingeniously built upon research in relocational astrology 
that already was a century ripe. The idea had fascinated astrologers well 
back to the 1800s. Before Lewis, the precursors of relocational astrology 
were A.J. Pearce in the 1870s, L. Edward Johndro, in the 1920s and 
1930s, and the famed sidereal astrologer, Cyril Fagan, who extensively 
researched and wrote about it in the 1940s. The idea of movement in 
time and space is germane to the realm of astrology, and the concept of 
moving the astrological chart played itself out in the varying progressions 
and transits that astrologers utilize in their work. But the great minds of 



Jyotish Locality 143 

Pearce, Johndro and Fagan extended this sense of movement to localities 
outside of the birth locality. It was Jim Lewis, however, who galvanized 
these ideas into a revolutionary modern tool he called 
Astro*Carto*Graphy. 

Continuum magazine succinctly summarizes Lewis' immense 
contribution to relocational astrology in a tribute entitled: "Jim Lewis 
and Astro*Carto*Graphy". Continuum explains: "Lewis' contribution was 
to take time and place beyond the narrow focus of a single horoscope 
and recast them onto a world map. Lewis' Astro*Carto*Graphy, then, is 
an angularity map that displays orbit tracks of the lights and planets for 
all horizons and meridians. ..forthe birth moment. The premise behind it, 
again, is that people will experience the intrinsic natures of the planets at 
locations where their natal planets fall angular. Lewis himself received 
many thousands of letters, corroborating this notion, from customers who 
were so impressed with the technique that they felt compelled to write to 
him and explain the detail of their lives. He advertised that changing 
one's locale could substantially change the prevailing conditions of one's 
life circumstances. It's true. There is no advertising hype behind it." Those 
of us who have practiced what Jim Lewis developed can attest to the 
veracity of that statement. 

Although Jim Lewis was a tropical astrologer, the techniques he 

developed in Astro*Carto*Graphy were never zodiac specific. One can 

be a tropical astrologer, or sidereal astrologer, or use any of the several 

■J 
ayanamsas (difference between the tropical and sidereal zodiac)^ 

available, or invent one's own, and the relocation technology is still 

relevant. How can this be so? Let us examine the fundamental principles 

of how Astro*Carto*Graphy measures the planets as they come to the 

angles, that is the horizon and meridian of a given locality. 

Astro*Carto*Graphy: How it Works 

On any given day the planets have a specific spatial relationship with 
one another irrespective of where one is born on the planet. This planetary 
relationship changes slowly over time due to the slow orbital speeds of 
the planets. The planets also have a specific relationship to any given 
locality dependent on the rotation of the earth, and because the earth 
rotates so much more quickly than the planets move, this relationship 



744 From Here to There 

constantly changes over the course of twenty four hours as planets quickly 
rise in the East, culminate overhead, and set in the West, at the observers 
locality here on the earthly sphere. 

Even though the Sun, or any planet for that matter, may not be 
rising or culminating or setting at the locality of your birth, at the time 
when you came into space, that is the moment you were born, it was 
specifically rising, culminating and setting somewhere on the earthly 
sphere. In fact, on the day at the time you were born, somewhere in the 
world all of the planets were rising, culminating, setting, and falling. 
Astro*Carto*Graphy measures this, and this measurement is profoundly 
simple. Just as parallels of latitude (north and south) and meridians of 
longitude (east and west) locate a place here on the earthly sphere, their 
celestial counterparts of parallels of declination and meridians of right 
ascension assist us in measuring planets on the heavenly sphere. By 
extending the Earth's equator into the heavenly sphere as a celestial 
equator, we can locate the planets in parallels of declination north and 
south along the celestial equator, and in parallels of right ascension east 
and west along the celestial equator. In this way the declination of a 
planet corresponds exactly with terrestrial latitude, and the right ascension 
of a planet corresponds exactly with terrestrial longitude. This system 
measures all of the planets through lines of extension to all terrestrial 
locations where the planets appear on the four angles: the ascendant, the 
MC, the descendant, and the IC. It's that simple, yet profound. 

Most importantly: Astro*Carto*Graphy is locality specific, not 
zodiac specific. To further explain, Astro*Carto*Graphy uses a world 
map to measure the planets on the earthly sphere only in reference to the 
planets rising and falling on the four angles at given localities. This local 
activity of the planets is an observable phenomenon (except the IC, of 
course). It is determined by local observance, not by the zodiac 
or ayanamsathe practitioner uses. Like ancient astrology it returns us to 
an observance of the night sky, replete with the rising and setting of the 
heavens. It is therefore a valid technique for tropical, as well as sidereal 
astrologers. No one group of astrologers can claim a monopoly for 
Astro*Carto*Graphy, for the one thing we astrologers all share in 
common, and upon which our eyes must agree, is the local observance of 
the planets as they rise on the horizon in the East, culminate directly 



Jyotish Locality 145 

overhead, and set in West, as they fall out of our line of sight. Jim Lewis 
developed a tool which completely sidesteps the tropical/sidereal zodiac 
debate and returns us to an observable astrology we all can agree upon. 
As I am both a practicing sidereal and tropical astrologer myself, this is, 
in my opinion,ts the definitive tool which joins East to West, where ancient 
astrological techniques meet modern techniques, utilizing the full potential 
of each zodiacal preference. 

Let me show you how easily this modern tool of astrology can be 
incorporated into your practice of Jyotish (Vedic astrology) and how easily 
the ancient tool of Jyotish can augment and enrich your current practice 
of relocational astrology. You need not draw up special relocational maps. 
The Astro*Carto*Graphy maps developed by Jim Lewis, and marketed 
by several fine astrological software programs work perfectly regardless 
of zodiac. The Vedic relocational astrology I have researched and 
developed over the last several years is what I call Jyotish Locality. 

In the Eastern school of astrology we have a tradition honoring 
our gurus and teachers. The ancient Vedas of India say we owe a debt of 
gratitude to our forefathers. I honor and pay homage to sage Parser for 
his gift of Jyotisha and I honor and pay homage to Jim Lewis as well. 
Knowing Lewis' fierce dedication to independent astrological thinking 
through our service together on the AFAN (Association For Astrological 
Networking) steering committee, I would like to think he would be pleased 
with the rise of a new star in the realm of astrological independent thinking 
as relocational astrology moves eastward. 

Jyotish Locality: The Right Angle on Relocation 

Ancient astrologers from both the Eastern and Western traditions observed 
that planets near the angles of the astrological chart (near the horizon 
and meridian) were imbued with great power to influence the life of a 
person. The fundamentals of Astro*Carto*Graphy are built upon this 
ancient principle. But the genius of relocational astrology lies in the 
principle that if you cannot bring the planets to the angles of your chart 
because of the time you were born, then by all means bring the angles to 
the planets by relocating in space to the various localities on terra firma 
where the planets were on the angles at the time you were born. In this 



146 From Here to There 

way you can bring Venus and Jupiter, or Mars and Saturn, to the horizon 
or meridian of your chart. 

The conventional wisdom of contemporary relocational astrology 
suggests it is best to enhance the classic benefic planetary lines of Jupiter 
and Venus, and to prudently be prepared, or to avoid classic malefic lines, 
such as Mars, Saturn and Pluto. For example, the Jupiter line of angularity 
on the eastern horizon is said to increase personal influence and popularity, 
increasing a person's optimism. On the other hand, the Saturn line of 
angularity on the eastern horizon is said to increase personal power but 
decrease self-esteem and popularity. Venus angular on the eastern horizon 
is said to enhance the personal image, refine personal aesthetics and create 
an atmosphere of indulgence. Mars, however, angular on the eastern 
horizon, is said to increase a virile, machismo image, magnifying 
competitive and confrontational energies in the person's life, often 
subjecting the person to physically challenging and harsh life 
circumstances. As you can see, the conventional wisdom certainly favors 
the benefic planetary lines of angularity. 

Vedic astrology also generally favors the benefic planetary energies 
of Jupiter and Venus over Saturn and Mars but there are important 
exceptions to this general rule and very important distinctions about which 
planetary energies to embrace and which to avoid. To understand this 
let's begin to weave a basic understanding of Jyotish, commonly called 
Vedic astrology, into our current understanding of relocational wisdom. 

Jyotish Locality: Preferred Planetary Placement 

The astrology of India is a sidereal-based system of astrology, which 
incorporates several distinct factors not currently used by today's 
contemporary Western astrologers. 

Ancient Jyotishis (practitioners of Vedic astrology) observed and 
recorded that planets near or on the kendras (angles), bring great power 
to influence a life, just like today's contemporary Western astrologers 
utilize the angles for the most obvious and distinguishing characteristics 
of a person's life. The Ascendant (1st angle) indicates the appearance, 
the IC (4th angle) indicates the family of origin, the descendant (7th 
angle) indicates the significant other or spouse, and the MC (10th angle) 
indicates the profession. The same principles of relocational angularity 



Jyotish Locality 147 

of the planets apply equally to Vedic relocational astrology, for as 
previously noted, relocational astrology is locally specific, not zodiac 
specific. It makes no difference what ayanamsa (difference between the 
tropical and sidereal zodiac) the astrologer uses; the calculations of the 
planets angular lines will always be the same. 

The Vedic sage Parasara, in his masterpiece, Brihat Hora Shastra, 
says further, that each of the planets has a preferred kendra (angle) where 
the planet gains its greatest directional strength. This system of planetary 
strength is called dik bala (directional strength). Parasara explains that 
each of the planets has a direction (North, South, East and West) in which 
it is most powerfully placed. Here is a table of these directional strengths. 



Planet 


Directional Strength 


Mercury 


East 


1st Angle 


Horizon East 


Jupiter 


East 


1st Angle 


Horizon East 


Moon 


North 


4th Angle 


Lower Meridian 


Venus 


North 


4th Angle 


Lower Meridian 


Saturn 


West 


7th Angle 


Horizon West 


Sun 


South 


10th Angle 


Upper Meridian 


Mars 


South 


10th Angle 


Upper Meridian 



Relocational astrology suggests that as planets come to angularity, they 
become more powerful. Vedic relocational astrology, or Jyotish Locality, 
agrees wholeheartedly, and further suggests that each planet has a specific 
angle at which it is most powerful. This implies preferred planetary lines 
of angularity for all of the planets. 

For example, as you can see from the table, the Sun is best placed 
directly overhead, on the MC, the upper local meridian or 10th angle. 
That is the Sun's preferred and most powerful placement according to 
dik bala (directional strength). This will be the most powerful planetary 
line of angularity for the Sun, more powerful than the ascendant, the IC, 



1 48 From Here to There 

or the descendant lines of angularity. This directional strength of the Sun 
is so obvious it is almost indisputable. The Sun appears strongest overhead 
and it casts little or no shadow. Both ancient and modern astrologers 
agree on this point. Jyotish Locality further suggests that each of the 
planets will correspondingly be most powerful on its preferred line of 
angularity. The Moon's most powerful preferred placement is the IC line 
of angularity, opposite the Sun. Saturn's most powerful line of angularity 
is in the West and Jupiter's line in the East, and so on and so forth for all 
of the planets. 

Although, as we have seen, relocational astrology is predicated 
upon the principles of local planetary angularity, Jyotish Locality agrees, 
and further gives preferential treatment to one line of angularity over the 
others for each of the planetary lines. This preferred line further increases 
the power of the planet. But as a planet becomes powerful we need ask 
ourselves powerful for what"? Modern relocational astrology suggests that 
the characteristics indicated by the specific planet will become more 
powerfully enhanced, such as optimism and friendliness for Jupiter's 
planetary lines, and realism and an increasing sense of isolation for 
Saturn's planetary lines. Jyotish Locality again agrees on these powerful 
enhanced planetary indicators according to the nature of the planets 
involved. But Vedic astrology further indicates that as planets become 
more powerful, the astrological houses these planets are associated with 
also become increasingly powerful. In fact, in Vedic astrology, the 
astrological houses a planet owns will singularly determine whether that 
planet will be powerful to help you, or to hinder you. Thus, again, some 
planets are preferred over others. 

Yoga Karakas: Preferred Planetary Energies 

As you have read, ancient and modern astrologers alike agree that the 
angles, or kendras of the chart are preferred planetary placements of 
power. The ability of a planet to make itself prominent in a person's life 
is attributed to its angularity. The four angles are powerful, that is why 
they are considered beneficial planetary placements. If a planet becomes 
powerful on an angle, then certainly the purpose behind this power is 
also a powerful consideration, for ultimately the purpose is a determining 
factor on whether the planet will become beneficially disposed or not. 



)yotish Locality 149 

Therefore the astrological houses of purpose are of special importance in 
Vedic astrology. These houses of purpose are called the dharma houses, 
and they ultimately determine whether the power of any given planetary 
angularity will be a positive or negative force in a person's life. 

The dharma houses, commonly called the trims in Vedic astrology, 
are the 1st house, the 5th house, and the 9th house. The Sanskrit word 
dharma implies the inherent purpose, the duty of the soul to fulfil itself. 
The purpose behind anything reveals its intent. The intent of the soul is 
sacred, thus in Vedic astrology these astrological houses are especially 
auspicious. The 1 st house does double duty as both an angle and a dharma 
house, called a trine. It is supremely auspicious because the planet that 
rules it is fully indicative of the self. The purpose of these trinal houses 
reveals the dharmic path of the soul through many lives. This makes 
these soulfully purposeful houses. Further, the planets that rule these 
houses are purposeful, benefic planets, that is, they are unusual for the 
astrological chart in question, whether these planets are the benefics 
(Mercury, Venus and Jupiter) or the malefics (Mars and Saturn). 

In Vedic astrology, when it so happens that a single planet owns 
both an angle (houses 1,4,7 ,and 10) and a trine (houses 1,5, and 9), it 
becomes a supremely auspicious planet for the person in question, for 
when purpose and power are combined, it is truly auspicious for the 
dharma of the soul. Like ancient Greek astrology, ancient Vedic astrology 
uses the original seven planets (the Sun through Saturn) in its house 
rulership principles. Modern Vedic astrologers use the outer planets 
(Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto) but not in the house rulership principles. 
Again, like ancient Greek astrology, Vedic astrology utilizes a whole 
sign house system. So the planets will rule over each sidereal house/sign 
in zodiacal succeeding order. This order is determined approximately 
every two hours by the sidereal sign that is rising in the eastern horizon. 
So all the planets, with the exception of the Sun and Moon, will rule over 
two houses, as they rule over two signs each (Venus rules Taurus and 
Libra, Mercury rules Gemini and Virgo, Jupiter rules Sagittarius and 
Pisces, Saturn rules Capricorn and Aquarius, Mars rules Aries and 
Scorpio). When the two houses that a planet rule are each an angle and a 
trine, then that planet gains a special status of positively influencing the 
life of the person. This is because the planet that rules both an angle and 



150 From Here to There 

trine has that aforesaid synergy of power and purpose behind it (because 
of its house rulerships) to lift it above the other planets and confer upon 
it a preferential status. In some cases two planets are necessary to create 
this linkage of power and purpose. The preferential status given to such 
planets is called &yoga karaka in Vedic astrology. Yoga karaka in Sanskrit 
means the best indicator of planetary combination. It is the best planet, 
or planets, benefic or malefic, for a given chart and this is entirely 
determined by what sidereal sign you have rising at birth. Below is a list 
of the highly beneficial yoga karakas for each of the twelve sidereal 
planetary ascendants: 

Ascendant Yoga Kararkas 

Aries Ascendant: Sun and Jupiter 

Taurus Ascendant: Saturn alone 

Gemini Ascendant: Mercury and Venus 

Cancer Ascendant: Mars alone 

Leo Ascendant: Mars alone 

Virgo Ascendant: Mercury and Venus 

Libra Ascendant: Saturn alone 

Scorpio Ascendant: Sun and Moon 

Sagittarius Ascendant: Jupiter and Sun 

Capricorn Ascendant: Venus alone 

Aquarius Ascendant: Venus alone 

Pisces Ascendant: Jupiter and Moon 

Jyotish Locality suggests that these are the best planetary lines of 
angularity for each of the twelve ascendants due to the auspicious house 
rulerships of the given planets. 

So if you are a sidereal Capricorn or Aquarius rising, the benefic 
Venus is your yoga karaka, and thus your best planetary line of angularity. 
If you are a sidereal Cancer or Leo ascendant, the malefic Mars is yours 
yoga karaka, and thus your best planetary line of angularity. It is the 
same for the sidereal Taurus and Libra ascendants, where the malefic 
Saturn is the yoga karaka and thus the best planetary line of angularity. 
When malefic planets such as Mars and Saturn are yoga karakas, they 
become temporarily benefic for those sidereal ascendants only. This is 
how Mars and Saturn, usually malefic energies, become highly beneficial 



Jyotish Locality 1 5 1 

lines in Vedic relocational astrology, because of their specific status as 
yogakarakas for Cancer, Leo, Taurus and Libra ascendants. To begin to 
practice Jyotish Locality, you will need to remember the yoga karakas 
for each of the twelve differing ascendants as these are the most auspicious 
planetary lines. 

Devas and Asuras: Friendly Planetary Groups 

The concept of yogas (planetary combinations) and especially yoga 
karakas is fundamental to the workings of Vedic astrology. You have 
already seen how certain planetary lines of angularity become exceedingly 
auspicious because of the preferred astrological houses over which the 
planets in question have dominion. Vedic astrology further divides 
planetary energies into two planetary camps: Devas 4 and Asuras 5 . Just as 
the yoga karakas work well with one other, planets from the same 
planetary grouping have a natural affinity and also work well together. 
The planets that rule the fire and water signs in Vedic astrology are 
friendly members of the Deva planetary group. These planets are the 
Sun, Moon, Mars and Jupiter. They generally work well together. The 
planets which rule the air and earth signs are friendly members of the 
Asura planetary group. These planets are Mercury, Venus and Saturn. 
They also work very well together. Vedic astrology mimics life. We 
generally can do no wrong in the eyes of our friends and do no right in 
the eyes of our enemies. Below, please find the table of planetary 
friendships for easy reference: 

Planetary Friendships 

Planets Friendships 

Mercury Asura Planetary Group 

Venus Asura Planetary Group 

Saturn Asura Planetary Group 

Sun Deva Planetary Group 

Moon Deva Planetary Group 

Mars Deva Planetary Group 

Jupiter Deva Planetary Group 



152 From Here to There 

Jyotish Locality suggests that next in importance to your yoga karaka 
planetary line of angularity you can't do much better than relocating to 
the line of a planetary friend. The first line of preference, next to the 
yoga karaka, should be the planetary line of the ascendant lord. No man 
or woman can be a better friend to oneself than by relocating to the 
planetary line of the planet that represents self. Next in order of importance 
will be the planetary lines of the planets from the same planetary grouping. 
Planetary friends will be supportive and beneficial for the chart as a whole. 
So you see, Jyotish Locality follows the same principles of modern 
relocational astrology when it comes to assessing local planetary lines of 
angularity. It then distinguishes the planetary lines by giving preferential 
treatment to the planetary line of angularity, which has dik bala, or the 
directional strength, for a given planet. It further qualifies planetary lines 
preferentially in the order of yoga karaka, ascending sign ruler, and lastly 
by planetary friendship lines of angularity. Each technique from ancient 
Vedic astrology enriches our understanding of modern relocational 
astrology, giving, in my opinion, a more distinctive and in-depth analysis 
of each of the traditional seven planetary lines. Jyotish Locality is just 
that profound and yet simple. 

Planetary Dasas: Preferential Planetary Periods 

Vedic astrology has a time-tested, unique feature, which has no equivalent 
in modern Western astrology: planetary dasas. The dasa system is one of 
planetary periods lasting anywhere from 6 to 20 years each, somewhat 
the eastern version of planetary progressions. 

The classic dasa system utilized by today's Vedic astrologers is 
the Vimshottari dasa system. Each person will start life in one of nine 
planetary periods, including the seven original planets and the two nodes 
of the Moon. According to the principles of Vedic astrology, you will 
receive the indications, and thus the karmic results, of each of the planets 
in your chart over the course of time, as you change from the planetary 
period of one planet to that of another. There is no need to discuss how to 
calculate the planetary dasas, as any of the several fine Vedic astrology 
software packages will easily calculate these planetary periods for you. 

The premise behind the planetary periods is that some planetary 
periods deliver better results than others do. This has much to do with 



Jyotish Locality 153 

how powerful the planet is in the chart, i.e. whether the planets are in 
their own sign or exaltation, and how powerfully the planetary period 
lord is placed, i.e. whether the planet is in one of the aforesaid angles or 
trines. The periods of well placed planetary friends are generally said to 
give the most favorable and supportive results. Jyotish Locality will take 
the dasa system one step further. 

Jyotish Locality suggests that if you are running the planetary period 
of a planet that is friendly to your chart, then, this planetary line usually 
becomes the best possible line of angularity to embrace if you are 
relocating during the planet's dasa. The concept is simple. If a person is 
running a planetary cycle of a planet friendly to their chart, say the planet 
Mercury for example, for a Taurus sidereal ascendant, then they are 
experiencing the karmic results of the planet Mercury during his cycle, 
which generally would be favorable for a Taurus sidereal ascendant. This 
is because Venus, the ascendant ruler, is a friend to Mercury in the system 
of planetary friendship groupings. If the person wanted to move in 
Mercury's cycle, Jyotish Locality would suggest the Mercury lines of 
angularity, especially the eastern horizon line, as there Mercury receives 
dik bala, his most powerful directional strength. The reasoning is again 
straightforward. Mercury's cycle will generally bring about auspicious 
results for a Taurus sidereal ascendant, and these results will greatly be 
enhanced and magnified by relocating to a Mercury line of angularity. 
This, in my opinion, will bring about the greatest possible planetary 
confluence, linking the current planetary period lord-with the planetary 
period lord's best line of angularity. This technique of Jyotish Locality is 
to be employed only when the current planetary period lord is from the 
same planetary friendship group as the ascendant lord. But what happens 
when the current planetary period lord is not that of a planet from the 
same planetary friendship group as the ascendant lord? What does Jyotish 
Locality have to say then? 

Jyotish Locality Upayes: Remedial Relocation Measures 

When a person is running the period of a planet that is not friendly to the 
ascendant lord, the results of a such a planetary cycle are generally not as 
favorable for the person, unless other mitigating factors are involved. 



154 From Here to There 

Vedic astrology utilizes a number of remedial measures to 
ameliorate difficult planetary energies. These are called upayes in Sanskrit. 
These upayes range from the use of prayer and mantras to the use of 
spiritual ceremonies (yagyas) and gemstones to propitiate difficult 
planetary energies. In ancient India, people did not relocate as readily 
and as easily as we enjoy today in modern Western culture. Because of 
our recently acquired mobility, Jyotish Locality can now be employed as 
an additional remedial measure. This technique of Jyotish Locality is 
again very simple and straightforward. If a person is wishing to relocate, 
and is running a difficult planetary period, simply suggest moving to a 
line of planetary angularity friendly to that person's chart! In my opinion, 
this, along with other suitable measures, will help propitiate the negativity 
of the difficult planetary cycle by realigning the person's energy with the 
positive resonance of a friendly planetary line of angularity. 

For example, imagine a person with a sidereal Leo ascendant is 
running the cycle of Venus. Venus is not part of the planetary friendship 
grouping that is friendly to the ascendant lord, the Sun. So if the person 
wanted to enhance their life by relocation, Jyotish Locality would suggest 
that they first move to their Mars line of angularity, for Mars is the yoga 
karaka for the Leo ascendant. Jyotish Locality further suggests the Mars 
line of angularity on the upper meridian, the MC, as this is where Mars 
gains dik bala, or directional strength. We would further suggest the 
planetary lines of the ascendant ruler, the Sun, and Jupiter, all of which 
are from the same planetary friendship grouping. These lines will bring 
out the best planetary resonance for the Leo sidereal ascendant. 

Case Histories 

Now that we have established the fundamental principles of Jyotish 
Locality, let us see just how well this system functions using actual case 
examples researched over the last two years from my private client files 6 . 

Practicum One: 

It Must Have Been the Right Place But the Wrong Time 

The first case history is that of a man who wished to relocate for personal 
and business reasons. John was born April 16, 1947, at 11:50am, MST, 
in Bozeman, Montana. Let us systematically establish the aforesaid 



jyotish Locality 155 

principles of Jyotish Locality so we can begin to interpret his A*C*G 
map for the best locality for relocation. See Figure 1, John's A*C*G 
map. John's Vedic chart has a sidereal Cancer ascendant. Mars is the 
planet who is yoga karaka for the Cancer ascendant. Mars gains dik bala, 
or directional strength, on the MC, the upper meridian planetary line of 
angularity. Therefore, according to Jyotish Locality, the Mars line, 
particularly the MC line of angularity, is the best possible relocational 
planetary line of angularity for John's chart. The Moon is the ascendant 
ruler and so the planetary friendship grouping of the Sun, Mars and Jupiter 
are the lines of planetary friends. These are the next best planetary lines 
of angularity. 

Now, according to the principles of Jyotish Locality, we will want 
to examine what planetary period John is running, and whether that planet 
is friendly to his chart. When John called me he was just finishing the 
balance of the planetary period of Saturn, a planet which is not friendly 



MC Mc to 




Figure 1 - John's A*C*G map, USA, West Coast detail 



156 From Here to There 

to his chart. Saturn is within degrees of the ascendant. At the time of the 
consultation he was unhappily involved in a relationship with a woman 
from the eastern part of Washington State. This is where, in fact, his 
Saturn planetary line of angularity was rising on the eastern horizon. It is 
thought that we receive the positive or negative energy represented by 
the planets from the people who come from the localities which their 
planetary line of angularity run through. This concept seems to work in 
Jyotish Locality as well. Saturn, in John's Vedic chart, rules the 7th house 
of relationship and the 8th house of joint finances for a Cancer ascendant. 
As John's Saturn planetary period of time was finishing, he was 
simultaneously also finishing the karmas of this very difficult relationship, 
which involved aspects of deep personal rejection and financial difficulties 
reflecting the Saturn house rulerships. Amazingly he was fulfilling all of 
this not far from his rising Saturn line of angularity in Eastern Washington 
just as he was finishing the difficult cycle of Saturn. The synchronicity 
of Jyotish Locality can be incredible! 

In examining John's A*C*G map (Figure 1) you will certainly see 
the Saturn line rising through eastern part of the state of Washington. 
You will also notice a Mars line, in fact the preferred Mars MC, upper 
meridian line of angularity running along the whole western coast, going 
directly through the Puget Sound area of Washington. This would be 
John's best planetary line according to Jyotish Locality. In John's Vedic 
chart, Mars was with Mercury in the sidereal sign of Pisces, in the 
preferred 9th trinal house. He was a successful technical writer in the 
Puget Sound area of Washington. There he had been financially successful 
on his Mars and Mercury lines of angularity. But, in the Puget Sound 
area the Saturn rising, eastern horizon, planetary line of angularity was 
just too close for comfort, even though it went through Eastern 
Washington. The memories of a long-term difficult relationship were just 
too much to bear for his Cancer ascendant. The sorrows of the relationship 
culminating in Saturn's planetary period ultimately made this locality 
unacceptable. It was time for amove. 

I recommended a transfer with his company to the San Francisco 
Bay area, as his Mars line cuts directly through this locality, as well a 
Mercury planetary line of angularity for his technical writing skills. John 
has since relocated to his Mars yoga karaka preferred planetary line of 



Jyotish Locality 157 

angularity in the San Francisco Bay area, directly on the MC, the local 
upper meridian, where his confidence and business assertiveness skills 
are currently flourishing. That is exactly what Jyotish Locality would 
expect, bringing out all the positivism and confidence of a Martian, that 
is what Mars as a yoga karaka for a Cancer ascendant promises. 

Practicum Two: Fairy Tales Can Come True 

The second example is that a woman who wished to relocate for personal 
and vocational reasons. Joan was born September 13, 1965 at 4:30pm, 
CST, in Dumas, Texas. Joan hadjust finished a very interesting time in 
her life, felt she was waiting for her life to take off again, and wanted to 
relocate to fulfil emerging career ambitions. Once again let's follow the 
fundamental principles of Jyotish Locality in interpreting the best locality 
for relocation. 




•» 



Figure 2 - Joan's A*C*G map, USA, West Coast detail 



158 From Here to There 

Joan has a sidereal Capricorn ascendant. Venus is the yoga karaka 
for Capricorn ascendants. Therefore, Joan's Venus line of angularity holds 
the best promise for relocation. Especially good is the Venus line on the 
IC (the lower meridian) as this is Venus' preferred planetary line of 
angularity. It is where she would receive dik bala (directional strength). 
Next in order of preference would be the planetary line of angularity 
from the same planetary friendship grouping as the ascendant lord Saturn. 
This includes the grouping Venus, Saturn and Mercury, in that order. 

When Joan spoke to me she has just finished the planetary period 
of Venus, the dasa of her yoga karaka planet, and potentially her best 
planetary period of time. She was now well into the planetary period of 
the Sun. Joan's Venus is well placed in its own sidereal sign, Libra, in the 
10th house. Her Venus forms a powerful planetary configuration called 
Malavya Yoga. Certain yogas, that is, certain planetary configurations in 
Vedic astrology, confer positive attitude and have great power to lift up 
one's life. Malavya Yoga is one such yoga. Venus's Malavya Yoga is said 
to confer great beauty, poise and refinement and the person is generally 
well liked by all. Such a planetary yoga delivers its powerful results 
during the yoga planet's planetary period of time. 

Joan had already experienced the results of this yoga, when she 
entered the Venus planetary period in 1971 . Venus' cycle was to run for a 
full twenty years, until 1991. During that period of time she had moved 
form Texas to the greater Seattle area. Why Seattle? By referring to Joan's 
A*C*G map (Figure 2) you will see that her Venus planetary line of 
angularity on the MC (the upper meridian) goes directly through the 
greater Seattle area. She came here to be a teacher to children. Venus in 
her Vedic chart rules the 5th house of children and the 10th house of 
career. There are no coincidences here, only the law of karma in full 
effect! Venus as yoga karaka for a Capricorn ascendant was conferring 
'karmic bliss' through relocation during her planetary cycle, as the Venus 
line of planetary angularity on the MC went through the greater Seattle 
area. As good as this planetary line is, it is not the greatest planetary line 
of angularity for Venus. That is the IC line for Venus, as she receives dik 
bala (directional strength) on the IC, the lower local meridian. 

What is most astounding in examining Joan's life is that during 
the Venus major planetary cycle she also left the country to teach abroad. 



Jyotish Locality 1 59 

She received great personal recognition when she moved to Oman to 
teach the children of a royal Sunni Muslim family. Oman is directly on 
that aforesaid best Venus line of planetary angularity: the Venus IC, its 
lower meridian line of angularity. 

All this glory behind her, Joan wanted very much to recapture the 
fullness of her Venus period of time, but she was no longer in the cycle of 
Venus, and had well over a year remaining in the present cycle of the 
Sun. According to Jyotish Locality, the Sun is not a planetary friend to 
the Capricorn ascendant planetary friendship group. Further, her Sun was 
in his own house, the 8th house of the Vedic chart. It was a time for 
seclusion, something of a retirement from the high energy of the Venus 
cycle. In 1997 her Moon planetary cycle was to begin. Although not a 
planetary friend, the Moon in Vedic astrology really has no true enemies. 
The cycle of the Moon promises to be a much better period, as the Moon 
in her Vedic chart is placed in the 4th house, where she gains dik bala and 
rules one of the angles, the 7th house of relationship. 

I recommended that Joan continue to reside in the Puget Sound 
area, or perhaps relocate to Northern California, as she entered the 
planetary period of the Moon in 1997. This locality is where the Venus 
MC, upper meridian planetary line of angularity is strong. Venus, after 
all, as yoga karaka is a great friend to her ascendant lord, Saturn. A Venus 
line will act as an upaya, a planetary propitiation, and offer much support 
for a Capricorn ascendant during the concluding difficult cycle of the 
Sun. In concluding her consultation, I recommended staying in the Puget 
Sound area because her Moon IC was just off the west coast, much closer 
to the Puget Sound area than Northern California. 

Conclusion 

The Vedas of India explain that, "a king without an astrologer is like a 
man who is blind in his own home." Jyotish in Sanskrit means the 
'knowledge of light'. In ancient India, astrology is given special distinction 
as being the 'eye of the Veda'. Astrology gives us sight through the light 
of the Divine. The usual processes that go on in the dark proceed very 
differently when those processes take place in the light. What takes place 
in the dark can no longer remain the same when the light of astrology 
shines. We are then no longer blind. 



I 60 From Here to There 

If you are a tropical Western astrologer, think of the techniques of 
Jyotish Locality as shining an additional ancient light on your current 
astrological practice. If you are a sidereal Vedic astrologer, think of the 
techniques of Jyotish Locality as shining an additional modern light on 
your astrological practice. 

In my opinion, Jyotish Locality is one place where ancient Eastern 
astrology meets modern Western astrology. Don't just take my word for 
it; try its dynamic techniques for yourself. Relocational astrology maps 
can't distinguish the difference between the two systems of astrology. 

Must we? 

© Dennis Flaherty 1997. 



Dennis Flaherty is an internationally known astrological consultant, 
lecturer, teacher and mentor with over 25 years experience . He is one of 
the few westerners experienced and practiced in both Western and Vedic 
Astrology, having been the recipient of the prestigious Jyotish Kovid and 
Jyotish Vachaspati, awarded by the late B V Raman of the Indian Council 
of Astrological Sciences and the Jyotish Navaratna by the American 
Council of Astrological Sciences. 

Flaherty is the first elected President Emeritus of the Council of 

Vedic Astrologers, and one of the original founding board members of 
the American Council of Vedic Astrology. He is a past president of the 

Washington State Astrological Association and has served four terms on 
the board o/AFAN, The Association for Astrological Networking. He 
writes regularly for The Mountain Astrologer. He is the author of "Mythic 
Measurements of the Moon y s Nodes" and "The Eastern Moon Through 

Western Eyes ", and is featured in anthologies from Llewellyn and Samuel 

Weiser. 

Flaherty teaches Jyotisha through his audio correspondence 
course, which has been distributed widely and in several foreign countries. 
He is the founder and director of the Northwest Institute of Vedic Sciences 
in the Seattle, Washington area, where he teaches, consults, and tutors a 
curriculum in Vedic astrology. Over 25 of his personal students have 
graduated at Level I and Level II from the American College of Vedic 



Jyotish Locality 1 6 1 

astrology. He can be reached through his web site: 
www .vedicsciences .com 

NOTES 

1 . "Jyotish" is the Hindu system of astrology; the Sanskrit word means "light, 
brightness", but in the plural also "the heavenly bodies, planets and stars". 
Idiomatically, it is "the knowledge of light". 

2. Continuum magazine, 1997 edition, "Jim Lewis and Astro*Carto* 
Graphy", by Ken Browser. 

3. From www.eastrovedica.com : The Concept of Ayanamsa: The Date of 
Coincidence of the Tropical and the Sidereal Zodiacs was found to be 
285 AD and the Ayanamsa (precessional distance) was called Lahiri's 
Ayanamsa. Different scholars gave different dates but the Indian 
Government, in order to standardise the Ayanamsa value, took the initial 
point of the Zodiac as the point in the Ecliptic opposite the star Chitra 
(Alpha Virginis), which was the vernal equinoctial point on the Vernal 
Equinox day of 285 AD. The rate of precession of the Vernal Equinox 
was taken as 50.3 seconds per sidereal year. 

4. Deva: Sanskrit for god, deity, angel and/or celestial being. 

5. Asuras: Sanskrit for power-seeking deities, sometimes referred to as 
demons. They were opposed to the Devas. 

6. Although these are actual case histories, the names have been changed. 

7. As has been stated, note that the A*C*G map would be exactly the same 
if the birth chart had been of the tropical zodiac, rather than sidereal. 



11 

A Locality Tale 
Kathryn Cassidy 



Astrologer Kathryn Cassidy has travelled widely, especially during the 
years she worked as a flight attendant. Here we have the narrative of 
how locality astrology actually played out in her real-life experiences. 

When I turned seventeen years of age, astrology was already my passion. 
It was not, however, something that the careers officer at my college 
recognized as being a 'proper job'. Not wishing to get into the tick-tock 
of office-bound life, I decided to indulge my Venus in Sagittarius and 
earn some money working in the travel industry. In my early twenties I 
began working as a flight attendant for British Airways. I spent an entire 
decade operating either short haul (European) or long haul (worldwide) 
routes. This satisfied my Mars in Cancer and Uranus in the 1 th perfectly 
- a service industry (Mars Cancer) that gave me freedom to roam (Uranus). 
It also didn't escape my notice that there was a wonderful correlation 
between my desire to work towards helping people reach their higher 
potential, and this work, which found me soaring high in the clouds! 

In the mid 80s I was introduced to Jim Lewis's Astro*Carto*Graphy 
technique. As I had the added advantage of being an astrology student 
who was constantly on the move across the planet, I was able to directly 
apply, and test, the fundamental tenets of A*C*G What I found was that 
Lewis had developed the most incredible and accurate technique for 
describing the events and feelings I had experienced, or was yet to 
experience, at locations across the globe. 

Armed with my map and the little accompanying A*C*G booklet, 
I began to investigate where I had planetary angularity and parans and 
how my experiences matched up to 'my lines'. As a control for my 
experiment, I also recalled events that had already happened in the first 



A Locality Tale 163 

few years of my flying. I wanted to satisfy myself that I wasn't 
subconsciously manifesting events as a result of my newfound A*C*G 
knowledge. 

The results were astounding. I can personally attest to the use of 
these maps and lines to elaborate on the type of energies and resonances 
encountered at given locations. 

Hooray for Venus! 

Venus is primarily the planet of relationships. In my birth chart it is in 
trine (flowing 120 degree) aspect to my Uranus and in wide conjunction 
to Jupiter. I have Venus and Jupiter angular nearby Dubai. On every trip 
to Dubai, I loved the opulence and beauty of the hotels and the value of 
goods I could get for my money. Being considerably younger and perhaps 
a little more materialistic, I would shop, shop, shop 'til I dropped for 
luxury items in the souks and duty free outlets. This is a very Venusian 
pastime. On one trip I went for a sumptuous meal and met a man (I was 
single then) who was a Taurean. Taurus is the sign ruled by Venus. We 
got chatting and it transpired that he was on a business trip and actually 
lived very close to me in England. We dated for about two years and I 
ended up having a live-in relationship with him in London. Venus/Uranus 
perfectly describes my delight, but surprise, at meeting a man in Dubai 
and quickly establishing an unexpected romantic relationship. 

If I look back over my life I have also always been a magnet to 
people of Middle Eastern origin. The received A*C*G wisdom is that 
you don't have to actually travel to the lines; the energies can come to 
you. In other words, I have a particularly sympathetic resonance in the 
area of Venusian matters with people who were born , or reside , under my 
Venus lines. As another example, I have my Venus Local Space (LS) line 
(more of Local Space later) running near to my Venus IC through the 
Caribbean. One year, before I knew of A*C*G> I took a week's holiday 
to Antigua with my mother. When we arrived we appreciatively surveyed 
our resort and glanced at the yachts moored in the bay. I turned to my 
mother and said to her jokingly, "Now all we need is the millionaire with 
the yacht". The very next day (remember I have Venus trine Uranus) a 
man approached us on the beach and, to cut a long story short, he turned 
out to be a very wealthy Californian who had a holiday home on the 



1 64 From Here to There 

island (Venus IC). We spent the entire week with him; he flew us over to 
St Maarten where he hired a yacht with crew and we sailed to St Barts, 
all expenses paid and no strings attached, other than a bit of harmless 
flirtation. He remained a friend until we drifted apart a few years later. 
I should also note here that in later years, when I was married and 
no longer flying for a living, I won a national newspaper competition to 
fly to the Caribbean island of St Lucia for a week. Here we have Venus at 
work again. 

Mercury and Neptune Undermine and Infiltrate 

Another example is a trip I made to Southern Mexico, which lay near 
both my A*C*G Mercury/Neptune IC lines and my Mercury and Neptune 
Local Space lines (called a "destiny crossing" of those planetary energies). 
Mercury is the planet of movement, especially by car. Neptune is 
associated with liquids, especially alcohol. It also has correspondences 
to the emotion of fear. In this location, I was involved in a car accident 
when my inebriated taxi driver ploughed into a midline road barrier. I 
wasn't hurt but, from that day to this, I have had a phobic fear of being 
driven by anyone I don't know well. 

In 1989, on a subsequent trip to this location, (under those Mercury/ 
Neptune lines) I contracted an illness that put me, upon my return, in the 
Hospital for Tropical Diseases in Isleworth, London. The doctors were 
baffled and originally thought I had contracted typhoid. Subsequent tests 
showed that I had mycoplasma, a genus of bacteria that lack cell walls 
and is transmitted via microscopic, airborne water droplets. Neptune is 
associated with illness that is hard to diagnose and also anything that 
lacks boundaries. The microbes gave me pneumonia; Mercury has 
astrological resonance with anything tiny (and this includes the 
microscopically small) and with the lungs. 

Incredibly, later in my life, whilst on a trip to Kuwait, which also 
lies directly under my Mercury /Neptune LS lines, I contracted dysentery. 
This is an illness in which micro organisms are transmitted by 
contaminated water. 

Mars and Saturn pose a threat 

Mars is a planet whose energies are usually very unsubtle. It has 



A Locality Tale 165 

correspondence with the adrenals, violent events and physical injury. My 
Mars line stretches up through the mid- Atlantic Ocean. Whilst working 
for British Airways, flying back from Brazil, and crossing close to where 
Mars MC links with my Saturn LS line (a MA/S A destiny crossing) I had 
my worst in-flight experience when, as a result of air turbulence we 
suddenly lost altitude. We were going to put down in the Azores but the 
captain made the decision to fly on when none of the injuries were life- 
threatening. The incident certainly got my adrenaline pumping overtime! 
Mars/Saturn can be read in astrological parlance as 'the tendency to get 
hurt or injured'. 

Local Space Helps Out 

Since making astrology my career in the early 1990s the field of 
Astromapping has grown phenomenally. New methods and techniques 
have been added and in 1996 1 was fortunate to be introduced to Martin 
Davis. He hails from St Louis, USA, which is exactly on my Sun IC and 
within miles of my Uranus Ascendant line; perfect symbolism for the 
male astrologer who is now bringing my experiences to public attention 
via this book. Martin has also led a very peripatetic life and his 
knowledgeable writing and lecturing on Local Space (LS) techniques 
empowered me to explore my own maps with a greater understanding. 

Pluto 

It was only after I learned more about Local Space that I was able to see 
the pattern in another event. Local Space projects your potentials out 
across the globe. My Pluto LS line arcs through Paris over to Los Angeles. 
In 1989 I had met someone special to me who lived in Paris but came 
from California. He put in an appearance as transiting Pluto was conjoining 
my Sun. I spent almost two years commuting back and forth to Paris to 
see him. I later lived in LA. for a year. This suggests that my Pluto Local 
Space line assumed greater significance when Pluto conjoined my Sun. 
As I am a Scorpio, I would expect to have a naturally strong resonance 
with my Pluto lines anyway but the Sun highlighted it and I was 
subconsciously drawn to locations along this line. 



166 From Here to There 

Cyclo*Carto*Graphy (C*C*G): Because Timing is Everything 

Another technique we can utilise with modern day A*C*G computer 
programs is that of secondary progressions. This is one ingredient of 
what is called Cyclo*Carto*Graphy or C*C*G. 

Here's a story which illustrates C*C*G: Though I have a natural 
affinity (Uranus 10th) with astrology and airlines, within weeks of joining 
British Airways, I was surprised to learn I had come top of the training 
course, with the reward, or prize, for this being an around-the- world ticket. 
I chose to go to across to Hong Kong and then down to Australia. If we 
were to look at the C*C*G for the period of my trip - bearing in mind I 
hadn't even heard of A*C*G at this time let alone C*C*G - we would 
see that both my progressed Sun and progressed Uranus had cycled to 
their MC's, straddling Hong Kong and going down to Western Australia. 
My Jupiter LS line cut right through Hong Kong and down through 
Sydney. I visited both Sydney and Perth on that trip and these lines all 
perfectly describe the unexpected nature of my visit. 

Parans Are Important Too 

From looking carefully at all my travels I also feel that parans are of vital 
importance in pinpointing an exact line of latitude where planets find 
expression. The Sun-Moon paran is the paran for describing 'you' as it 
links the masculine and feminine, the past and present, the emotional 
and the physical. Local Space lines add a truly personal flavour; linked 
as they are to your birth location, whilst the actual lines of angularity, i.e. 
ASC, DESC, MC and IC, have quite a wide orb but serve to highlight 
areas of countries, or continents, which will be of significance in the life 
of the individual. 

I have had particular success, whenever I have been ill, in using 
Tibetan Medicine. I choose to see practitioners in England who are visiting 
from The Tibetan Medical & Astrology Institute (Men-Tsee-Khang) in 
Dharamsala. This is near to where my Saturn, Mars, Neptune and Mercury 
A*C*G lines converge with my Venus LS line. This location lies exactly 
on my Sun/Moon paran latitude. 



A Locality Tale 1 67 

In Conclusion 

I believe the angularity of planets at the time of our birth sets up a field of 
vibration, or a natural resonance, with various locations on Earth. Just as 
aspects in the birth chart can manifest on a whole host of levels, so too do 
our lines describe areas where manifestations of the archetypal meaning 
of the planet and its harmonic aspects can arise. I highly recommend that 
all practicing astrologers make careful study of this knowledge in order 
to understand where, and with whom, their client might increase their 
chances of avoiding difficulties and embracing love, success and 
fulfillment. 

©KathrynCassidy2007. 



Kathryn Cassidy is a UK based astrologer who writes extensively on 
astrology, A *C*G and the ancient Hermetic wisdoms. All of her writings 
and videos can be accessed via www kathryncassidy .com 



12 

The Stars and Stripes 
The USA Presidential Inaugurations and the 

Complex Sky 

Bernadette Brady 

Bernadette Brady is well known for her innovative work in Visual 
Astrology, the astrology of working with the whole sky. Vm pleased to be 
able to include this important and previously unpublished article by her. 
In it, she alerts us to the idea that the earth is not intrinsically a neutral 
canvas waiting for locality lines Ho impregnate if. Rather, places and 
regions have inherent qualities, some of which come from their relationship 
with the sky. 

Places and calendar dates have a relationship. We raise monuments at 
these places and hold ceremonies at these monuments on the calendar 
dates of the events enshrined in that time and place - the anniversary. 
Two such times and places for the USA are the events of 9/11 in New 
York City and Pearl Harbour in the Pacific. For Australians, one of these 
is the cold and windswept cliffs of Gallipoli. Culturally we acknowledge 
time's relationships to certain places. 

But as astrologers our knowledge of this relationship is generally 
retrospective. Our astrology is better suited to looking at what has 
happened, rather than providing a tool which we can use to explore the 
potential of a place to produce an event. Granted we do have the technique 
of Astro*Carto*Graphy but this method views the Earth as a neutral 
canvas, blank and empty, waiting for a planet line to impregnate it. Yet 
the Earth is not a neutral canvas. Places and regions have an inherent 
quality, and some of this quality, I believe, comes from a location's 
relationship with the sky, the whole sky. 



The Stars and Stripes 1 69 

If we focus solely on the planets and their movement along the 
ecliptic, then we tend to forget what is meant by the word fixed when 
referring to the stars. The earth rotates on its axis and every day the 
whole sky, stars, planets, ecliptic, sun and moon, appear to rise and set. 
Yet unlike the planets, the stars are, for all observations and purposes, 
fixed in their place in the dome of the sky and therefore, since the dome 
of the sky appears to rotate, they will, for any given place, always rise in 
the same place on the horizon, set on the same place on the horizon, and 
culminate at the same degree of elevation above the horizon. They do 
not wander around the sky, changing their times and positions of rising, 
setting and culmination like the planets. They are fixed. To change this 
we must either wait seventy-two years for precession to move these 
positions by roughly a degree or, and this is the important point, change 
our location. 




The ecliptic- the sun's 
path through the sky 



The star's path 
through the sky 



A star rising when 10<Q 
is rising on the ecliptic 



Figure 1 - Ignoring precession, for any given location, a star will always rise 
with the same degree of the ecliptic and at the same place on the horizon. As 
transiting planets or the luminaries move into the 1 th degree of Leo , then when 
that planet rises it and the star will be in a paran relationship. 



1 70 From Here to There 

The Quality of a Latitude 

Given the fixity of the stars for a particular location, a star will always 
rise (or set, culminate or be on the IC) when a certain degree of the 
ecliptic is rising (or setting, culminating or on the IC). The star may be 
further around to the north or south of the ecliptic but when it (the star) 
touches the horizon, we can look to see what degree of the ecliptic is also 
touching the horizon. 

For example, the star Sirius, the brightest star in the sky (the Dog 
Star, known to the Egyptians as The Scorcher), will always co-rise with 
1 0° Leo for the latitude of New York, NY but for Tokyo, Japan it co-rises 
with 5° Leo. So for New York every year the Sun co-rises with Sirius on 
the 2 nd August (when the sun is at 10° Leo), but for Tokyo this date is 
around the 27 th July (when the Sun is at 5° Leo). Further south, down in 
Sydney, Australia, Sirius co-rises when 14° Gemini is rising and this 
corresponds to the 4 th June (when the Sun is at 14° Gemini). So it can be 
seen that these three cities all have a relationship with Sirius and the Sun 
but this relationship is expressed on different calendar dates which in 
turn are a reflection of the latitude of the city. 

So fixed stars are fixed and this fixity gives us an important tool 
with which to examine the quality and potential of a particular latitude 
for the unfolding of certain types of events. 

Therefore, as astrologers we can recognise that specific bands of 
latitude on the globe are coupled with specific fixed star combinations. 
We can look at the globe and realise that certain areas or zones will have 
potentials, which are quite different from other zones or latitude bands. 
Some latitudes will have combinations of difficult stars that will move 
onto the angles (rising, setting, culmination or on the IC) at the same 
time. Other latitude bands may have a combination of stars which are 
more productive or successful. Additionally, a single band of latitude 
will contain times when a certain ecliptical degree will align with difficult 
stars, and times when another ecliptical degree will align with easier 
stars. 

Every line of latitude on the Earth is rich with these combinations; 
rich with its own stories, history, qualities and potentials - and these 
have been seriously neglected by astrologers. 



The Stars and Stripes 171 

Thus, we can examine a line of latitude for its key degree positions 
on the ecliptic and if transiting outer planets move into these sensitive 
degree positions, a nexus is formed between stars, planets and the Earth. 
This nexus will be unique for that particular latitude. These patterns can 
be seen if one examines historical events which are sorted by latitude. 
Additionally, if we involve the Sun in paran to a star, then the events will 
also occur around the same calendar date. Consider the following events: 

• The San Francisco earthquake of 1906 happened on 18 th April at 
latitude 37N36. 

• The Oklahoma City bombing of 1995 happened on 19 th April at 
latitude 35N29. 

• The assassination of Abraham Lincoln in Washington, DC, in 1 865 
happened on 15 th April at latitude 38N54. 

These events occurred in mid- April, for a latitude band around 
36° North, which is the period in which Sirius rises when the Sun is 
culminating. 1 Every year the Sun and Sirius are tied together in mid- 
April at this latitude. There are many years where no events occur but the 
key issue here is that this potent combination speaks of a potential between 
place and calendar. 





Figure 2 - For this latitude band in mid-April when the Sun culminates (24-25° 
Aries), 6-7° Leo are rising. This is also the degree at which Sirius will rise every 
day for this latitude in mid- April, therefore, the Sun and Sirius are in paran for 
the cities in this latitude band. 



172 From Here to There 

When the outer planets form a difficult pattern and also occupy 
one or more of these key degree positions for this latitude, then the stage 
is set for memorable events to occur. See Figure 2. 

The San Francisco earthquake occurred in this 'charged time' when 
a tight Uranus-Neptune opposition was in paran with Alhena, the heel of 
the twin Pollux. In mundane work this star is known as a ground shaker. 
The Oklahoma City bombing occurred in this 'charged time' when a 
Uranus-Neptune conjunction was in paran with Altair the Eagle, meaning 
in mundane terms: ungrounded, ill-planned or fanatical actions. The 
assassination of Abraham Lincoln occurred in this 'charged time', when 
transiting Pluto had moved into a key zodiacal position so that it was in 
paran with Algol at this latitude: assassination, to kill one's enemies . (All 
star meanings taken from Starlight). 

Places and times have relationships. When those relationships 
involve the Sun, as in these three examples, then places also have a 
relationship to a calendar date. For latitudes of around 36° North, the 
time of mid- April is a potentially difficult time and if other factors become 
involved via the movement of the outer planets, then ill-omened events 
can unfold; 

These types of dates are littered throughout history. For example 
the Great Fire of London erupted on September 2, 1666, and the London 
Blitz of World War 2 began on September 7 , 1 940. At both of these times 
London was nearly destroyed. Is this a coincidence? No. From an 
astrological point of view, London in early September, every year, is 
governed by a star called Alphard, the heart of the Serpent. 4 Some years 
there are also difficult planetary patterns which coincide with these 
degrees. For the Great Fire of London it was a Saturn-Neptune 
conjunction; for the London Blitz, Saturn and Neptune were not in aspect 
to each other but, by a strange quirk of the mathematics of that latitude, 
they both formed parans to the same stars as for the Great Fire. 

Place and time do have a quality and one of the ways we can explore 
the potential this creates is to examine the possible unions of stars and 
planets for a location. 

Star Phases - How Stars Govern a Place and Time 

This fixity produces more than just stars that rise with the Sun. It also 



The Stars and Stripes 173 




Figure 3 - Some stars can, at fixed times of the year, be seen in the east at sunset 
and still be visible in the night sky the following dawn. Such a star does not 
touch the horizon and is therefore said to have lost touch with the mortal Earth 
and joined the realm of the immortal deities, which are the circumpolar stars. 



I 74 From Here to There 

produces a type of ballet, an annual dance of stars over a particular 
location, which few astrologers appreciate or even understand. Over your 
city or town there is a precise calendar pattern to a given star's annual 
rhythm. Stars have their own individual path through the sky. For some 
stars this pathway can be shorter than the path that the Sun takes (see 
Figure 1) and these stars will disappear from view at a set calendar date. 
Even if you watch the night sky from dusk to the next dawn you will not 
see that star. However, after a while (days or months) the star will be 
seen to rise again just before the Sun. Now if you watch the star over the 
next few days and weeks it will appear to rise earlier and earlier until one 
evening it will set just before sunset and not be visible again until the 
same calendar date next year. Then you will see it rising again just before 
the sunrise. 

Such a star, when seen in the predawn light, was considered by the 
Egyptians to be born again. The star had travelled into the realm of the 
Underworld, died, and was now reborn. This star was called by Claudius 
Ptolemy 5 the Heliacal Rising Star. 6 

Nevertheless, if you really are star watching, you would also notice 
another group of stars that have a pathway through the sky longer at 
times than the path of the Sun. These stars will set in the west at some 
time during the night. Each night, these stars will set closer and closer to 
dawn, until one night the stars will not set at all. Instead, they remain in 
the sky the whole night and the Sun will rise before the stars are seen to 
set. (See Figure 3.) 

Such a star will 'lose touch' with the Earth on the same calendar 
date from one year to the next for that location. This star was deemed to 
be a deity visiting the realm of the Immortals, those beings who never 
died because they never set - the Pole Star, Polaris is the most obvious 
example of an immortal star. When a star returned from this realm and 
was seen to set again just before the dawn, it was understood to be rejoining 

"7 

life on Earth and Ptolemy called this star the Heliacal Setting Star. 

The Governing Star 

When a star returned from its journey from the Underworld or returned 
from its annual visit to the Immortals, it was believed to govern (I have 
used the term 'govern' in preference to 'rule' to avoid confusion with the 



The Stars and Stripes 175 



Date of change of 
Governorship 


Heliacal Rising 
Star 


Heliacal Setting 
Star 


The quality of the governorship 


January 2 


Acumen 




Scandal and Rumours 


January 4 




Mirfak 


A time of action 


January 16 




Capella 


Independently minded 


January 23 




Pollux 


A painful truth coming to light 


January 25 




Castor 


New ideas, new knowledge 


February 9 


Rukbat 




A time of steadiness, a tifBfc of OH 
change 


February 17 


Desieb M%tdi 




A time of the Fstablishment and the 
law 


February 19 




Regulus 


A noble, righteous act that inspires the 
nation 


March 31 




Zosma 


The small person, or underdog, takes 
centre stage 


April 5 




Denebola 


Clashes with the Fstablishment 


April 9 


Fomalhaut 




Idealism, illusion, and even deception 
abound 


April 29 




¥i«s<S«Hiiatii& 


A time of gathering people or ideas 
together 



Figure 4 - A partial parapegma for Washington, DC, latitude 38N54 (and other 
cities at this latitude). Each period has two governing stars which hold their 
influence until the next star in their column takes over. 

relationship a planet has to a zodiac sign) that time and place until the 
next star took over and returned to once again touch the Earth. Two 
millennia ago the calendar was measured by these star risings and settings. 
Such a star calendar was called a parapegma. The parapegma was 
originally a peg board or stone in which markers or pegs were moved to 
measure the days of the year as different stars rose or set before the dawn. 

I believe that once a star governs a period of time the nature of that 
star will dictate the quality of the period of time until the next star takes 
over. Thus, any given location will have an annual rhythm with set times 
of the year being governed by set stars that hand over their governorship 
on the same dates each year. This is the potential of a place, the rhythm 
of a city. For the city of Washington, DC, the parapegma for the first four 
months of any year of the 20 th and 21 st century looks like this: 9 
Every latitude band has such an annual calendar and every one will be 
different. Compare the above parapegma for Washington, DC with that 
of London, UK in Figure 5. 



176 



From Here to There 



Date of change of 
Governorship 


Heliacal Rising 
Star 


Heliacal Setting 
Star 


The quality of the governorship 


January 1 


Facies 




The shadow of war, the darkness of 
cruelty or aggression 


January 6 


Aculeus 




A period $£ strong debate or criticism 


January 22 


Acumen 




Scandal and rumours 


February 4 




Pollux 


A painful truth coming to light 


February 17 




Castor 


New ideas, new knowledge 


February 21 




Regulus 


A noble, righteous act that inspires the 
nation 


February 22 


Deneb Algedi 




A time of the Establishment and the 
law 


April 28 




Denebola 


Clashes with the Establishment 


April 29 




Zosma 


The small person, or underdog, takes 
centre stage 



Figure 5 - A partial parapegma for London, UK, latitude 51N31 (and other 
cities at this latitude). Each period has two governing stars which hold their 
influence until the next star in their column takes over. 

The pattern for Washington, DC has the potential for scandal and 
rumours for all of January, then a shift to the focus of law and order 
which holds sway from mid-February till early April, where a period of 
illusion is encountered. Whereas for the city of London, UK the new 
year opens with a potential for darkness or the worries of war, which 
rapidly (by 6 th January) shifts to a debate. This debate is followed by 
rumours and the flushing out of the truth, and the whole period from late 
February to late April is governed by the themes of law and order. It is 
not until late April that there is the opportunity for challenging the 
establishment line. This calendar is affected by precession but only one 
day in seventy-two years. 

It is important to understand that these events will not happen every 
year, but if there is, for example, in late April of a given year, a planetary 
combination which lends itself to a clash with law and order, it will have 
a greater chance of gaining expression at the latitude of London than at 
the latitude of Washington. The stars prime a location and the stars for 
London at that time are conducive to clashes with the law. 

So, we can think about a relationship between calendar and place 
in terms of the stars. Some periods of the year will be blessed with joyful 
or creative stars which provide a background of potency. For a given city 



The Stars and Stripes 1 77 

or place, some days will be naturally happy, while other days will hold 
sadness. Some days will contain the potential for tragedy while others 
the potential for more positive outcomes. Sometimes this will occur over 
a period of only a few days; other times it can be a few weeks as a star 
holds sway over a particular city until the next star returns from the 
Underworld or from its journey with the Immortals. But each year will 
be different as the quality of this governorship will vary from one year to 
the next via the other star and planet parans happening at that time. 

Time and Place - The First Tuesday in November 

As a society we tend to organise events to fall on set calendar dates and 
in set places. In Melbourne, Australia, the first Tuesday in November is 
devoted to a horse race called the Melbourne Cup. By a good chance, 
rather than design, at that latitude for that time of the year the Sun rises 
with Procyon, a bright star linked with glamour and glitter. 10 In mundane 
work, I have delineated this in Starlight as simply: A time of sporting 
success or short-lived, ephemeral glories . 

This is the perfect background for the nature of this event and is, I 
believe, one of the astrological reasons for its growth from a small 
provincial race, starting in 1861 , to one of the major racing events of the 
sporting world. But what would happen if the Melbourne racing authorities 
moved the event to another month? In effect, they would be placing the 
event and all of its importance into another type of time, charged with 
different stars, which may or may not be supportive of the horse race. 

In the USA, however, in every fourth year, the first Tuesday in 
November is a race of a different nature. It is Election Day. On that date, 
for the latitude of Washington, DC, the governing stars are Spica and 
Alpheratz. Spica, the Wheat sheaf of Virgo, symbolises making the most 
of an opportunity or a choice, and Alpheratz in Pegasus, the flying horse, 
is concerned with making changes, asking us to take action, to not be 
restricted." This is a good combination for apolitical election. This is the 
potency of that time of the year for that latitude. 

All elections are different from each other and depend, according 
to astrology, on the position of the planets and how those planets relate to 
other stars on any particular election day. Nevertheless, the background 
energy is in rapport with the intentions and actions of the population. 



J 78 From Here to There 

Any changes to this date, as in the example of the Melbourne Cup, could 
have serious long-term consequences, for, according to my hypothesis, it 
would open the door to different energies and flood this important event 
with energies that may not be so supportive. 

Yet a key date in US political events has been changed; firstly in 
its location and secondly in its calendar date. When George Washington 
became the first US president, he was inaugurated 12 on April 30 th , 1789, 
in Wall Street, New York City. After that inauguration the event was 
moved to Philadelphia, PA, and the date was changed to March 4 th . It 
was then moved to Washington for the 1801 inauguration of Thomas 
Jefferson. Having settled on that place in 1933, the date was changed 
from March 4 th to January 20 th for the second inauguration of Franklin D. 
Roosevelt. 



1789 April 30 - George Washington 


New York, NY 


1793 March 4 - George Washington 


Philadelphia, PA 


1801 March 4 - Thomas Jefferson 


Washington, DC 


1937 January 20 - Franklin D. Roosevelt 


Washington, DC 



Figure 6 - A summary of the changes to the inauguration dates and places for 
the US presidents. The president listed in the table is the first president to be 
inaugurated on that calendar date. 

So the important event of the inauguration of the presidents of the USA 
has been placed into different places and different dates. Like a seed, it 
has been planted into different types of soil, each one having different 
qualities. What were and are these qualities? And have these changes 
been of service or disservice to the presidency? 

George Washington's Inauguration 

George Washington was inaugurated on 30* April, 1789 in New York, 
NY. His inauguration stars are as follows: [Note: All the following 
meanings are from the delineations that I researched for the software 
Starlight. Starlight is also designed to take the date of an event and search 
back in time to find the dawn where a star was returning to the Earth - 
either becoming the newly-crowned Heliacal Rising star or Heliacal 
Setting star]. 



The Stars and Stripes 1 79 

30 April, 1789 - New York, NY 
Themes that Occur for this Latitude Every Year in this Era 

Heliacal Rising Star 

Fomalhaut - Rising before Sunrise 

Idealism, illusion and even deception abound 

Heliacal Setting Star 

Vindemiatrix - Setting before Sunrise 

A time of gathering people or ideas together 

Sun - The stars in paran with the Sun on this day 
Setting when Mirach is Setting 

The promotion of peace, or order, in a territory 
Rising when Altair is Culminating 

Bold or daring actions by a group or a person, 

military matters 
Rising when Vindemiatrix is Setting 

People gather together, an event that unites 



These are the star themes that repeat themselves every year for New 
York, NY, at this time of the year and they are fairly self-explanatory. 
Here we see that the ritual of the first presidency was planted in a rich, 
supportive soil. The act of creating a republic and a president was a noble 
idea, full of dreams held together by ideals which united people; a bold 
venture, a pathway to peace, the victory of self-government after the 
military matters of the American War of Independence. This was a good 
day and a good place for George Washington to stand on a balcony on 
Wall Street and take the oath of office. It gives the fledgling nation the 
best chance to grow into its dreams. And grow it did. 

However, for the second inauguration both the date and the place 
were changed. George Washington's second inauguration was on March 
4 th , in Philadelphia. 



180 From Here to There 



March, 1793 - Philadelphia, PA 
Themes that Occur for this Latitude Every Year in this Era 

Heliacal Rising Star 

Deneb Algedi - Rising before Sunrise 

A time of the Establishment and the law 

Heliacal Setting Star 

Regulus - Setting before Sunrise 

A noble, righteous act that inspires the nation 

Sun - The stars in paran with the Sun on this day 
Setting when Sualocin is Setting 

The talented long-shot takes centre stage 
Culminating when Rukbat is Setting 

A leader stands steady, or a leader is seen to be 

stubborn 
Rising when Regulus is Setting 

To engage in a noble, or military, endeavor 



As can be seen from the quality of this date for Philadelphia, the shift of 
the inauguration put the presidency, with all its new dreams of nationhood, 
on a more solid footing. Gone is the idealism of the 30 April, New York 
inauguration and now, in its place, we have the energy of Deneb Algedi, 
the tail of the goat of Capricorn. This is the mark of law and order, the 
establishment acting in a ritual which is about nobility, an act that inspires 
a nation (Regulus is the heart of the Lion and one of the royal stars of 
Persia). Present also is a statement concerning the new concept of a 
republic which elects its leaders based on their ability, rather then anointing 
the heir to the throne (Sualocin in paran with the Sun). The inauguration 
in Philadelphia was a good move. 

But there were still changes to come. Thomas Jefferson became 
the third president of the United States. His inauguration on 4 March, 
1801 was held in the new seat of power, Washington DC. His presidency 
ended twelve years of Federalist rule. There was only a small shift of 
latitude, with Philadelphia being sited at 39N59 and Washington DC at 



The Stars and Stripes 1 8 1 



4 March, 1801 - Washington, DC 
Themes that Reoccur for this Latitude Every Year in this Era 

Heliacal Rising Star 

Deneb Algedi - Rising before Sunrise 

A time of the Establishment and the law 

Heliacal Setting Star 

Regulus - Setting before Sunrise 

A noble, righteous act that inspires the nation 

Sun - The stars in paran with the Sun on this day 
Setting when Alphecca is On Nadir 

(Strength and leadership found through hardship) 
Rising when Regulus is Setting 

7b engage in a noble, or military, endeavor 
Rising when Mirach is Rising 

The promotion of peace, or order, in a territory 



38N49, so the stars are quite similar and as for Philadelphia they also 
talk of law and order, but there is an important difference. 

The only change is the star Sualocin which has been replaced by 
Alphecca, the alpha star of the Northern Crown. The Greeks called this 
constellation the Wreath, and the star is linked to the action of being 
offered a crown. Now the presidential candidate who will be offered the 
crown needs to be a hardworking respected leader; skill alone is not 
enough. 

Of course each president had his own unique natal chart as well as 
his inauguration chart. However, during this period of US history all of 
the presidents placed their inauguration charts into this quality of time 
which promoted successful growth for their country. We can see how 
some parts of an inauguration chart will be encouraged by the stars, while 
others are not. 



182 



From Here to There 




Figure 7 - The first Inauguration of Abraham Lincoln. March 4, 1861 at 12 
noon LMT (estimated time) in Washington, DC 38N53, 77W02. 

Lincoln's Inauguration: a March 4 type 

The chart for Abraham Lincoln's first inauguration, I have set to noon 13 
on March 4, 1861 in Washington, DC. One of the features of this chart is 
the Mars-Pluto conjunction. 

Given that we already understand the quality of this time and place, 
we can expect that this stellar quality will enhance certain planetary 
combinations in the chart that are of a similar nature while reducing the 
potency of other planetary combination which are not of its nature. 

The quality of this time and place already contains the theme of 
leadership in the face of hardship, as well as the theme of military activity, 
enabling us to highlight the Mars-Pluto in Lincoln's inauguration chart 



The Stars and Stripes 183 

and say that there will be military endeavours of great hardship. Indeed, 
it was Lincoln who took the Union into the Civil War; the most bloody of 
conflicts. And the Civil War began April 12, 1861, within five weeks of 
his inauguration. One can then look at the actual Mars and star links 
(parans) for the period of the day of his inauguration and see not only the 
bloodshed but also the potential for the Union victory: 

Mars was in paran to two stars on the day of his inauguration: 
firstly, to Facies, the meaning of which in Starlight is: Matters of 
endurance or great hardship, and secondly to Sualocin, which I have 
delineated in Starlight as: Assuming mastery of the territory, to take the 
upper hand. 

Planet Combinations Supported by Star Parans 

This is a key point: one needs to look for support for a particular theme at 
both levels of the astrology, on the ecliptic - that is in the chart -as well 
as in the sky, using the full dome of the celestial sphere. This point bears 
repeating: one should look for an issue firstly in the chart and then look 
for its nature or expression being reflected in the stellar background. In 
Lincoln's inauguration chart we have a difficult planetary combination 
of Mars/Pluto, this is supported in the star parans for the inauguration 
and thus can grow and gain expression. 

The Change of Inauguration Date 

In order to allow enough time for officials to gather election results after 
election day, as well as for candidates to make the long journey in the 
winter months to the north of the country, the United States had enshrined 
in its constitution that the inauguration would be held on 4 March, unless 
that was a Sunday, in which case it would be held on 5 March. However, 
with improvements in communication, as well as travel, the lengthy time 
until the transition of power now seemed unnecessary and in 1933, with 
the passage of the Twentieth Amendment, the constitution was changed 
to move the date to 20 January, or 21 January if that was a Sunday. 

Hence, with the second inauguration of Franklin D Roosevelt (his 
second of four), the seeds of nationhood and presidency were to be planted 
into a different type of soil. A different time, and therefore a different 
quality, was being used as the foundation for the presidency. 



1 84 From Here to There 



20 January 1937 - Washington DC 
Themes that Reoccur for this Latitude Every Year in this Era 

Heliacal Rising Star 

Acumen - Rising before Sunrise 
Scandal and rumors 

Heliacal Setting Star 

Capella - Setting before Sunrise 

A period which favors the independently-minded 

Sun - The stars in paran with the Sun on this day 
Setting when Schedar is Culminating 

The people, or an exalted woman, act with dignity 
Rising when Algol is On Nadir 

A person who destroys through passion 
On Nadir when Alpheratz is Setting 

7b take independent action 
Culminating when Altair is Culminating 

Bold or daring actions by a group or a person, 

military matters 
Rising when Menkar is On Nadir 

A time of extremes of action or weather 



This is a vastly different theme to the 4 March date. Gone is the nobility, 
the honor, the action that inspires a nation. Not all presidents will be 
hounded by scandal and rumors and not all presidents will be driven to 
the extremes of the nuclear attack on Japan (symbolized by the joining of 
the two stars Algol and Menkar with the Sun) but this is the potential, 
into which the US presidents - and thus US history - were embedded 
from 1933 onwards. 

A few inaugurations of the 20 January type 

To date, Richard Nixon has been the only president to resign in office. 
The second inauguration of Richard Nixon on 20 January, 1973, is shown 
in the following chart: 



The Stars and Stripes 185 




Figure 8 - Richard Nixon's 2 nd inauguration. 20 January, 1973, 12 noon EST 
(estimated time), Washington, DC. 38N53 77W02. 

This chart contains a strong Mercury conjunct the MC, as well as a partile 
Mars-Saturn opposition with a wide separating conjunction between Neptune 
and Mars. 

Mercury and Scandal 

The background star theme for this time and place already contains the 
potential for scandal or rumours (Acumen, one of the stings of the 
Scorpion, being the Heliacal Rising Star governing that time period). 

So into this star theme is laid an inauguration chart which has a 
strong Mercury tightly conjunct the Midheaven, and its ruler, Saturn, is 
linked with Mars and just happens to be in Mercury's sign of Gemini. 
Additionally, Mercury forms a square to Uranus and a conjunction to 
Jupiter. There are many ways such a strong Mercury could be delineated. 



186 



From Here to There 



We could say that detailed knowledge of Richard Nixon's dealings will 
keep expanding and growing (Mercury conjunct Jupiter) with totally 
unexpected outcomes (the square to Uranus) which have difficult or even 
fatal results (bringing in the nature of the Saturn-Mars opposition). 
However, when we consider the background star potential, then we begin 
to understand that, combined with the Acumen, this could open the 
doorway to scandals and rumors. 

The unfolding story of the strong Mercury in the inauguration 
horoscope has a tendency therefore to flow into the Mercurial themes of 
rumor and scandal present in the background star themes. There is a 
match, a sympatico between horoscope and stars. 




Figure 9 - George W. Bush's first inauguration, 20 January 2001, noon EST 
(estimated time), Washington, DC. 38N53 77W02. 



The Stars and Stripes 187 

There are other supporting star and planet parans in Nixon's second 
inauguration chart that indicate difficulties, but the main point is to show 
how the stress on Mercury in the chart expressed itself via rumours, which 
grew stronger. These rumours, of course, lead to Nixon's resignation. 

In looking at another example, George W. Bush. Bush has had two 
inaugurations. The first was on 20 January, 2001 , in Washington, DC. 

George W. Bush was elected with a minority of the popular vote; 
the potential for scandal, rumors and the muttering of corruption was a 
rich legacy from the elections. His inauguration chart contains among 
other planetary combinations a Mercury-Uranus conjunction squaring 
both Mars and Saturn. We see in this horoscope the potential for a sudden 
and unexpected event or piece of news which could herald hardship or 
even war. This could be economic, military or social hardship. We still 
have the annual star theme linked to this date and place, which, for Bush's 
first inauguration was: 

Heliacal Rising Star 

Acumen - Rising before Sunrise 
Scandal and rumors 

Heliacal Setting Star 

Capella - Setting before Sunrise 
A period which favors the 
independently minded 

Sun - The stars in paran with the Sun on this day 
Rising when Algol is on the Nadir 

A person who destroys through passion 
Culminating when Al Rescha is Rising 

A person who unites or polarizes 
On the Nadir when Alpheratz is Setting 

To take independent action 



When considering the quality of this time, we would bias our interpretation 
more towards the difficult Algol with the Sun and its passion and 
destruction predominating, rather than the rumours or scandal which was 



188 From Here to There 

the focus with Nixon's chart. Keep in mind that we are looking for themes 
being repeated in both the sky and if found, are the ones on which we 
should focus. In Bush's first inauguration chart we have the themes of 
sudden upset and new hardships, so these are what we seek in the stars. If 
they are there as well, it is a strong indication of the nature of the unfolding 
of events. 

We can expand this information by looking at the star parans to 
the planets involved in the particular combination. For Bush's first 
inauguration the following star planet parans were also in effect: 

Uranus with Alphard - (The heart of the Serpent) - Outrage in the 
community because of threats to families 

Mars with Zuben Elgenubi -(One of the claws of the Scorpion) - People 
helping people 

Mercury with Alk.es - (The Cup) - Important news that will be 
remembered by many and with Antares - (The Heart of the Scorpion) - 
Anxiety and worry 

For Saturn there are several stars but one that stands out is: 

With Pollux (one of the twins of Gemini) - People's lives altered by a 

disaster or the actions of an aggressive group 

Given this additional information, the sudden news item is more 
likely going to be a disaster affecting innocent people and/or families 
than a presidential scandal, as was the case for Nixon. Within eight months 
of this inauguration the events of 9/11 unfolded in New York City. 

This marriage between sky and chart reveals a focus to the planetary 
patterns in the chart and enables us to gain clearer insights into the potential 
indicated by the inauguration charts. 

The 2005 Inauguration 

The second inauguration chart for George W. Bush was for 20 January 

2005. 

In this chart Saturn is in detriment conjunct the IC. Once again, as 
with the inauguration chart for Abraham Lincoln, there is a Mars-Pluto 
conjunction. Additionally, there is a Jupiter square Mercury- Venus, while 
the other major aspect is the Moon squaring Uranus. 



The Stars and Stripes 




2e°&oa- 



Figure 10 - George W. Bush's second inauguration. January 20, 2005, 12 noon 
EST (estimated time), Washington, DC. 38N53 77W02. 



Before considering this chart let us examine the stellar themes that are 
also present. We already have the difficult themes inherent for this time 
and place produced by the Heliacal Rising and Setting stars and the parans 
to the Sun but we can also consider the themes which are unique for this 
event. The following is the full printout from Starlight of star parans, 
apart from the solar annual themes already discussed. 



1 90 From Here to There 



The rest of the stellar themes for January 20, 2005 Washington, 
DC, Stellar period commencing January 16 

The background themes which can be active for many months: 

Uranus - Public opinion, public expectations 
On Nadir when Ras Algethi is Rising 

A sudden upset in the political balance of power 

The acute themes that are active just for this time period 

Moon - The emotions of the people 

Culminating when Spica is culminating 

The hope that new technologies, or a new plan, 

will save the day 
Culminating when Murzim is Rising 

Emotional speeches, emotion-charged 

announcements 

Mercury - Business and the media 

Rising when Hamal is On Nadir 

Jolting news, the truth unveiled 
On Nadir when Sirius is Culminating 

A publication, or the words of a person, 

have far-reaching repercussions 

Venus - The social conventions 

Culminating when Alhena is On Nadir 

Social reform issues 
Culminating when Denebola is Setting 

Society s ideas or standards ruffled 
Rising when Al Rescha is On Nadir 

Recognizing what lies underneath a social issue 
Culminating when Vega is Culminating 

A celebration of the arts, a charismatic person 

takes centre stage 



The Stars and Stripes 1 91 



Culminating when Facies is Culminating 

A ruthless approach to social problems, or 

savage artistic comment 
Rising when Thuban is Culminating 

Protecting society s values and culture, even at 

the expense of other groups 

Mars - The events of the day 

Setting when Acumen is Setting 

To act against social opinion 
Setting when Aculeus is Setting 

The hardships endured by people 
Setting when Ankaa is Rising 

Seeing the previously unknown potential of a 

group or person 

Jupiter - The type of action which is favored by this 
period of time 
Culminating when Diadem is Culminating 

By helping others, old problems can be solved 
On Nadir when Mirach is Culminating 

Greed and excesses 
On Nadir when El Nath is Setting 

Aggressive actions or people rule the day 

Saturn - The law and civic order 

Rising when Ankaa is Culminating 

Strong leadership comes out of chaos 

Are these horoscopic themes supported or altered by the stellar 
themes? 

Not all of these stellar themes will come to pass, just as not all the 
possible expressions of the inauguration chart will come to pass. This is 
one of the dilemmas of astrology: what to emphasise and what to ignore? 
This is easy in retrospect but harder in the art of prediction. However, by 
looking at the horoscope and then looking at the stars for supporting or 
similar themes, we can focus our delineation of the inauguration chart. 



J 92 From Here to There 

Mars-Pluto Theme 

The star parans indicate that the Mars-Pluto of the inauguration chart is 
not as violent as it was for Lincoln's first inauguration, as it seems to be 
focused more on the themes of social opinion coming from hardships 
suffered by a particular group. So, instead of a bloody conflict, such as 
the Civil War of Lincoln's era, we are more likely to see the angry social 
uprising of a particular group within the community. This possible civil 
unrest will be fuelled by a heavy-handed or even aggressive action taken 
by those in power. 

Additionally, the star themes are indicating that from this turbulence 
a leader emerges. 

Jupiter Mercury and Venus themes 

This planetary pattern is focused into the expression of an orator, a leader 
who can talk on social issues. This person could be from the political 
arena or they may be a spokesperson from a grassroots cause. The shadow 
side of the Jupiter- Venus combination is that of greed or over-indulgence, 
gross waste or neglect, and this is also reflected in the stellar themes with 
Jupiter inparan with Mirach, the potentially artistic but also self-obsessed 
or over-indulgent star in Andromeda. So corporate greed or personal greed, 
or waste and excess may well be one of the unfolding issues of Bush's 
second term. 

The Moon- Uranus theme 

Moon-Uranus in any chart can suggest turbulence and upsets, but here 
we see that this is also supported by the stellar themes. Both the full 
dome of the sky and the horoscope are producing the same message: 
political upheaval. 

Future Inaugurations 

If the US continues to inaugurate its presidents on 20 January, in 
Washington, then it is not until the inauguration of Tuesday, January 20, 
2037, that a new stellar background theme emerges via the action of 
precession. This inauguration theme will still contain the same Heliacal 
Rising and Setting stars of Acumen and Capella and the Sun will still 



The Stars and Stripes 1 93 

form a paran to the difficult Algol. But gone is the theme of the 
independent, free-agent style president. The parans are: 

Sun - The stars in paran with the Sun on this day 
Rising when Algol is on Nadir 

A person who destroys through passion 
On Nadir when Alphecca is Rising 

Strength and leadership found through hardship 
Culminating when Zuben Elgenubi is Setting 

A time of salvation, a leader is sacrificed 

Interestingly a particular star returns that was first present for the 
inauguration in Washington of Thomas Jefferson on 4 March 1 801 • This 
star is Alphecca and it represents the Wreath, 'to be handed a crown'. 
Linked with this is a socially-aware and humanitarian star, Zuben 
Elgenubi. Accordingly, this will herald a new era of US presidency, one 
with less emphasis on the glory or power of the individual and more on 
the needs of the people. This theme will stay with the presidency, with 
variations, until the end of the 21 st century. 

In Conclusion 

For most readers the concepts that I have expressed may be quite foreign, 
different to the astrology to which they have become accustomed. Yet by 
combining both the sky and the chart, by using the Ml dome of the heaven 
with the horoscope, we find that there is a great deal more information at 
the astrologer's finger-tips. Without doubt, this type of astrology is more 
complex, and harder for the astrologer to glance at and give quick 
judgement. Indeed, it is because of its complexity that the Greeks 
abandoned the stars and concentrated on the planets and the ecliptic. For 
them, this was based in necessity. But we live in the 21 st century and 
astrologers now sit with their hands on a computer keyboard, not an 
armillary sphere, and therefore, unlike the Greeks, we can quickly and 
accurately reproduce the full dome of the sky for any time and place. If 
astrology is to reflect life then, like life, it will be complex. Surely now it 
is only the naive or very new to astrology who believe that a simple 
aspect or midpoint can explain or even be used to predict a forthcoming 
event with all its complexity. 



194 From Here to There 

The sky is a vital and key principal of our craft and we should not 
run from it or try to reduce it down to a neat, simple line; we need to 
allow it to have its full complexity and grandeur. The parans and phases 
of the fixed stars provide us with a tool to gain a greater understanding of 
the unique relationship between the sky, the Earth and time. This unique 
relationship gives us the nature of the quality of times that flow across 
the different cities and locations on the globe. By accepting the complex 
sky we not only enhance our ability to delineate charts, we also gain a 
technique which tells us about the quality of a location itself. 

© Bernadette Brady 2005. 

Bernadette Brady, MA., is a professional consulting and teaching 
astrologer who lives in Bristol, UK. She holds a masters degree in Culture 
Astronomy and Astrology from Bath Spa University , UK. In September 
2006 the Astrological Association of Great Britain presented her the 
prestigious Charles Harvey Award for ^exceptional service to astrology \ 
In her capacity as an astrologer she lectures, teaches, designs 
software and writes. Her books include, Brady's Book of Fixed Stars, 
Predictive Astrology: The Eagle and the Lark and her latest, Astrology, a 
Place in Chaos. Bernadette Brady can be reached via her website: 
http://www. bernadettebrady. com/ 

NOTES 

1. The Civil War commenced on April 12, 1861 in Charleston, South 
Carolina. This is another mid- April date for the US but it is at a latitude 
of 320N47 which falls outside of the range given in the example. However, 
Sirius was also forming a paran with the Sun on that day for this latitude. 

2. Starlight software, authors Bernadette Brady and Barnswood Ltd, 
published by www .zyntara.com 

3. All non-polar latitudes will have annual dates where the Sun is in paran 
to Sirius. This example is simply showing one of the background stellar 
influences for this latitude which history has shown to be sensitive to 
being amplified by other planetary and star events happening at the same 
time. 

4. Allen (1963) p. 249. 

5. Ptolomy, Claudius (1993), The Phases of the Fixed Stars. Translator R. 
Hand. Berkley Springs, WV:Golden Hind Press. 



The S tars and Stripes 1 95 

6. For a more detailed explanation of Star Phases see Brady, 1998; Evans, 
1998. 

7. For a more detailed explanation of Star Phases see Brady, 1998; Evans, 
1998. 

8. Evans (1998) p. 200. 

9. The meanings of these star periods have been taken from Starlight. 

10. Brady (1998) p.89. 

11. Brady (1998) pp.5 1,271. 

12. Inauguration is defined in this article as the organised ceremony of the 
president elect taking the oath of office. This is different to a swearing- 
in which occurs upon the death of the incumbent president and is held as 
soon as possible at the location of the vice-president, or next in succession 
to the presidency. 

13. The US Constitution states that the term of the President expires at noon 
on the day of the inauguration. Therefore, I have set all the inaugurations 
charts to this time. Additionally any debate about the exact time of the 
beginning of a new president's term is not relevant for fixed star work as 
parans only require a date and place. 



REFERENCES 

Allen, Richard Hinckley. (1963) Star Names, Their Lore and Meaning. 

New York, USA: Dover Publications. 
Brady, Bernadette. (1998) Brady's Book of Fixed Stars. Maine. USA: 

Samuel Weiser. 
Evans, James. (1998) The History and Practice of Ancient Astronomy. 

Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press. 
Ptomley, Claudius. (1993) The Phases of the Fixed Stars. Translator R. 

Hand. Berkley Springs, WV: Golden Hind Press. 
Starlight software (2001-2006) Zyntara Publications, UK - 

www.Zyntara.com 



13 
The Solar Return Astro*Carto*Graphy Map 

David Meadows 



David Meadows has researched and written extensively on the use of 
Solar Returns with Astro* Carto* Graphy . In this chapter he describes 
how he works with the Astro* Car to* Graphy solar return map, giving us 
a real life example of its use as a predictive tool in his own circle of 
family and friends. 

Astrologers use various techniques when they examine how the natal 
chart is temporarily influenced. These include transits, secondary 
progressions, tertiary progressions, minor progressions, solar arc 
progressions, solar returns and lunar returns. Most astrologers do not 
have time to use all these techniques, as there is too much work involved. 
Cyclo* Carto* Graphy is the main technique to find temporary 
influences on an Astro*Carto*Graphy map. I decided to embark on 
research to find out whether an Astro*Carto*Graphy map for a solar 
return chart can provide additional information about locations. 

Solar Return chart 

This is a chart that is calculated every year when a person has a birthday, 
so it can be also called a birthday chart. It shows what a person will 
experience in life during the next twelve months. 

The solar return chart is calculated for the date and time when the 
Sun returns to its exact position in the natal chart. This occurs once a 
year, either on the birthday, the day before or day after. For example, if 
the natal Sun is at 24° Libra \2\ then a chart is calculated for the exact 
date and time that the transiting Sun reaches this position. 



The Solar Return A*C*G Map 197 

Location for Solar Return chart 

The first problem when calculating a solar return chart is which location 
to use. Some astrologers will calculate a solar return chart using the 
birthplace, and not consider the person's present living location. Other 
astrologers insist that the place of residence should be used for the solar 
return chart. Then there is the theory that a person can change a solar 
return chart by being in a different location for their birthday. If, for 
example, a person goes on holiday for two weeks in Spain and celebrates 
their birthday there, then the coordinates of the holiday location should 
be used for the solar return. But what if a person is travelling on a long 
plane journey at the time of a solar return? This makes it extremely difficult 
to calculate a solar return chart for where a person happens to be at this 
time. 

The problem of deciding which location to use for a solar return is 
avoided when Astro*Carto*Graphy is used. When a solar return is drawn 
on a map of the world the planetary influences can be found for any 
location. Using this technique, it doesn't matter which location is used 
for the solar return, so I would recommend that you keep to the birthplace. 
Other locations can be examined after the solar return is drawn on a map 
of the world. 

With or without precession 

The next problem that an astrologer faces when calculating a solar return 
chart is whether or not to allow for precession. 

In astrology two types of zodiac can be used, the tropical and the 
sidereal. Each year when the Sun returns to zero degrees Aries this is not 
the same place in relation to the fixed stars. The vernal equinox (zero 
degrees Aries) moves backward 50.25 seconds of a degree each year 
through the fixed stars. This movement is called precession, which is 
attributed to a wobble in the Earth's axis. The tropical zodiac (moving 
zodiac) is the one used by most astrologers, but very little thought is 
given to the effects of precession. The sidereal zodiac (fixed zodiac) is 
used mainly in Hindu astrology and is unaffected by precession. There 
are two ways of overcoming the effects of precession: 



198 From Here to There 

L Use the tropical zodiac and allow for precession 1 
2. Use the precession-free sidereal zodiac 

Using the tropical zodiac we need to consider the following: As a 
person gets older the natal planets should be corrected for precession. As 
zero degrees Aries is moving backwards it means that the natal planets 
are moving forward in the tropical zodiac. A few astrologers take 
precession into consideration when examining transits. The amount of 
precession is added to all the natal planets before looking at the transits. 

Robert Hand gives a table for the precession correction values in 
Planets in Transit* At age 72 the amount of precession will be one degree, 
which can make a difference in the timing of transits. The effect of 
precession becomes more noticeable when a solar return chart is 
calculated. At age 18 the difference between a solar return calculated 
with and without precession will be six hours! The difference is 12 hours 
at age 36, and an entire day at age 72. 

The two types of solar return charts will have totally different 
angles, so this will obviously change where planets are on the angles 
when an Astro*Carto*Graphy map is drawn. 

The key question is which type of solar return chart is used in 
Astro*Carto*Graphy? 

Having used both types of Astro*Carto*Graphy solar return maps 
it was very clear to see which chart was the correct one. I was amazed to 
find out that an Astro*Carto*Graphy map with precession was the one 
that provided accurate information. After I arrived at this conclusion I 
asked Jim Lewis if he had done any research with Astro*Carto*Graphy 
solar return maps. He told me that his research showed that solar returns 
with precession were the most effective when applied to 
Astro*Carto*Graphy. 

Interpretation of the Astro*Carto*Graphy solar return map 

The same techniques used to find the planetary influences at locations on 
an Astro*Carto*Graphy map are used for the solar return map. That is, 
planetary lines and latitude crossings (parans) at a location. 

It is important to remember that the Astro*Carto*Graphy solar 
return map shows the temporary influences for one year. The information 



The Solar Return A*C*G Map 1 99 

obtained should be added to that found with Cyclo*Carto*Graphy to get 
a broader view of the temporary influences. 

With the Astro*Carto*Graphy solar return map further information 
is obtained about the temporary influences at specific locations. It is also 
possible to examine the birthplace on an Astro*Carto*Graphy solar return 
map to find out which temporary influences will have a worldwide effect. 

Is it possible to time events on an Astro*Carto*Graphy solar return 
map? Quite a few astrologers use various techniques in a solar return 
chart to time events. I have tried these techniques myself, applied to the 
Astro*Carto*Graphy solar return map, but found that they did not provide 
accurate information about when events would take place. 

Example: an event predicted from an Astro*Carto*Graphy 
solar return map. 

On 18 th March 1989 1 got married in Dresden, which at this time was in 
East Germany. It was extremely difficult to get married behind the Iron 
Curtain as permission had to be obtained first from the authorities. From 
the time of the engagement it took 18 months to obtain permission from 
the East German government before it was possible to get married. 

The solar return map for my 33 rd birthday was valid from 2 1 st March 
1988 to 21 st March 1989. When I examined an Astro*Carto*Graphy map 
of this chart with precession I saw very clearly that I would get married 
in Dresden before my 34 th birthday! 

On the Astro*Carto*Graphy solar return map with precession I 
had MO-MH, VE-MH and PL-IC near to Dresden (see Figure 1). I was 
convinced that this indicated getting married in Dresden against the odds. 
The same planetary lines have an influence in East Berlin where the 
application to get married was processed. I couldn't help but think that 
some kind of miracle would happen in East Berlin for this prediction to 
come true. 

When I told my fiancee this she said it would be impossible to get 
married before my 34 th birthday as it could take years to obtain permission 
from the authorities. This was confirmed when the East German authorities 
turned down our application to get married after we had waited six months 
for a decision. When I visited Dresden at Christmas in 1988 the East 
German government had just turned down a further application for our 



200 



From Here to There 



Mc- McMc 




Figure 1 - Astro*Carto*Graphy solar return map, with precession 



getting married. This meant that we had to make yet another application 
and wait a further six months for an answer. With only three months till 
my 34 th birthday I couldn't see how my prediction would come true. 

The British Embassy in East Berlin was doing all it could to help 
me obtain permission to get married. The Foreign Office in London was 
also putting pressure on the East German government to change their 
minds and my local MP became involved as well. Finally, much to our 
amazement, on 18 th January 1989 we were given permission to get 
married. But before a wedding date could be arranged all my documents 
had to be re-translated, as they were more than six months old! 



The Solar Return A*C*G Map 201 




Figure 2 - Astro*Carto*Graphy solar return map, without precession 

During the time that all my documents were being re-translated I 
told my family it would be best to arrange visas to visit East Germany. 
My family couldn't understand this as no wedding date had been arranged, 
but reluctantly agreed to do so. It usually took four to five weeks to 
obtain a visa to visit East Germany, which was then valid for six months. 
There was still a chance that I could get married before my 34 th birthday. 

After the translation work was completed, my fiancee was informed 
on 28 th February 1989 that she could now go to the registry office to 
arrange a date for the wedding. At this registry office my fiancee was 
told that only one date was available. This was 18 th March 1989 at 9.00am 
or 10.00am! 



202 From Here to There 

She asked what would happen if we didn't accept 18 th March 1989. 
If this date was turned down, we would have to start all over again by 
making a new application to get married. So we had no choice but to 
accept this date. 

As my family and I had applied in January 1989 for our East 
German visas it was possible to get married at short notice. Had we waited 
until a wedding date was arranged there wouldn't have been enough time 
to obtain visas to visit East Germany. So the information I obtained from 
my Astro*Carto*Graphy solar return map certainly helped to overcome 
the obstacles in getting married. 

The marriage took place four days before my 34 th birthday. Yet in 
December 1988 it was very hard to believe that my prediction would 
come true, so it really was a miracle that made this event possible. 

Map 2 shows my Astro*Carto*Graphy solar return map calculated 
without precession. There is no way that I would have predicted getting 
married in Dresden looking at the planetary influences on this map. 

© David Meadows 2007. 

David Meadows is a British born astrologer who now lives in Finland. 
He has specialised in locational astrology for 20 years. One of Europe } s 
most active locality practitioners, with a world-wide clientele, Meadows 
is known for his techical grasp ofAstro*Carto*Graphy.He is the author 
of Where in the World with Astro*Carto*Graphy/ His blog on locality 
issues can be found at: http://astromapping.blogspot.com/ 



NOTES 

1 i Adding procession correction to Solar Return calculations is easily and 
automatically done as an option in astrological computer programs. 

2. Information about the noted astrologer Robert Hand can be found on his 
website: http://wwwjobhand.com/ 

3. Planets in Transit, Second Edition, May 2002, SchifTerPublishing, Ltd, 
USA. 

4. American Federation of Astrologers, Tempe, AZ, 1 998. 



14 

The Business of Place and The Place 

of Business 
Making Astrolocality Techniques Useful 

Faye Cossar 

Faye Cossar has successfully brought astrolocality into her practice as 
both a business consultant and therapist. In this article she shares some 
of her extensive experience from the business realm with us. 

"To be on a quest is nothing more or less than to become an asker 
of questions." 

Sam Keen, American author, professor and philosopher. 

All the techniques involved in astrolocality are fun to look at and can 
offer insight. These include Astro*Carto*Graphy , relocation, Local Space 
and Geodetics. We should, however, choose the right tool for the job, so 
we first need to identify the question or problem we are attempting to 
address. I want to focus here more on business questions, but first a word 
on the personal side. 

The Personal 

Examples of the types of personal questions that I have been asked are: 

• I have been offered two jobs, one in France and one in Portugal, 
which one should I take? 

• I felt really at home and alive in South Africa - why is that? 

• Where is the best location for me to buy a house in Amsterdam? 
Where should I look? 

• I am redesigning my house - where would a good place for my 
desk be? 



204 From Here to There 

• My husband is going back to the States, I have never been there - 

how will that be for me and our dog? 

Where there is a specific place mentioned, I would normally go 
straight to using a relocation chart as this provides more depth and more 
to work with than other techniques involving place. It provides an entire 
chart. When we relocate, we take our whole chart with us with all the 
aspects, so we are not just getting planetary lines as in the other techniques 
and we need to take this into account. By moving we are simply reorienting 
our basic nature. Different facets of ourselves can be expressed in different 
life areas. 

Where there is a general question, such as "Where should I go on 
holiday?" I would look at both the world local space map and the global 
Astro*Carto*Graphy map to get a general view of where planetary lines 
run and then home in for a closer look at a few places. I would tend to 
focus more on the Astro*Carto*Graphy map as this gives more 
information. It is actually a type of summary of all the relocation charts 
for the world, showing where planets aspect or fall on the angles and, 
thus, where we will find powerful locations. Together with the client I 
would discuss the question further to see what the issues and wishes 
might be, and then give advice on the specific places based on these 
discussions. 

For issues relating to a smaller scale, such as the question about 
where to buy a house in Amsterdam, and where to place a desk, the Local 
Space chart is the only way to go. 1 This chart is what I like to think of as 
your personal compass or direction-meter. If this chart is printed out on 
acetate it can then be placed on a map of the location, in this case 
Amsterdam, with the centre in Dam Square (the central point in 
Amsterdam), to ascertain where all the planetary lines run. As an example, 
I have had success with using the Moon line for this specific 'where to 
buy a house 1 question. We appear to be more likely to feel nurtured and 
comfortable (Moon) with houses (the kind we live in!) that are on this 
line. 

Similarly, the acetate can be placed on your house plan. By placing 
the centre of the chart at the centre of your house (you sometimes have to 
guess where this would be), you can see where the lines run in your 



The Business of Place and The Place of Business 205 

house. Advice can then be given, in discussion with the wishes of the 
client, as to how the energies might be used - a Western Feng Shui if 
you like. So that's the personal in a nutshell. 

Mundane issues 

Then we can have mundane questions like: 

• What will happen in China over the next few years? 

• Who will win the US elections? 

There are several ways astrolocality techniques can be used. All 

the techniques already mentioned can be used for the horoscopes of 

countries. For example the Pluto on the Midheaven line for the US chart 

(I have found July 4 th 1776 17: 10 Philadelphia, with Sagittarius rising, to 

be effective) runs through the Middle East, exactly through Baghdad - 

enough said perhaps. 

Geodetic charts and maps are also often used for mundane issues 

■I 
but this is outside what I wish to cover in this article. 

The Business 

The topic I do want to focus on here is business. Questions such as: 

• I have a problem with supply in China - what's going on there? 

• I love Italian design, should we incorporate that into our products? 

• I am thinking of expanding our international group, which countries 
should I look at? 

• Will I have a problem with importing from India? 

• Our head office is in Amsterdam and we want to merge with another 
company whose head office is in Paris. What issues will we face? 

And many other questions that have to do with anything involving other 
countries or places. 

One of my friends, who is a finance director and is very supportive 
personally, is an absolute astro-sceptic. However he once said, "If you 
can help me with where to expand our business, I might be convinced 
that astrology is useful!" So there is the challenge for astrologers in 



206 From Here to There 

business. How can we make astrology useful? In my view, that is the 
only way to make it acceptable to a wider audience. If we can give advice 
on these very real questions, our image will improve. 

So how to attack this? What is happening in a specific country 
may be relevant for companies, so mundane issues may be of interest. 
The charts and maps of directors may also be interesting, however I wish 
to focus on company charts. The first thing to do is to obtain a chart for 
the company that works. This sometimes requires a bit of research. You 
may need to delve into the history of the company to see which chart 
works better at times when major transits or progressions would have 
been active. I usually use the incorporation chart as this seems to work 
well, but that is not always available. Once you have a company chart 
you can produce all the maps and choose your weapon! 

The question 

So, the main choices for companies are the Astro*Carto*Graphy map, 
the relocation chart and the Local Space map. And again it depends on 
the question as to how to select the right tool for the job. In my experience 
most clients have a country in mind, so I would start by looking at which 
lines run through those countries on both the Local Space and the 
Astro*Carto*Graphy maps. I will try to give an explanation of the 
difference between these two and will start with Astro*Carto*Graphy as 
I can get my head around what that represents and therefore how to use 
it! Let's take the horoscope of a company, say KLM. 4 Their birth date is 
7 th October 1919 in The Hague, midnight, because from then on the 
company exists. Figure 1, shows the chart using Koch houses, which I 
use because of the Huber Age Points but that's another story. 5 

For what I want to discuss here, the house system is irrelevant. 
What is relevant is the aspect pattern. I have my own preferences but you 
should use whatever aspects you like except the aspects to the MC and 
the Ascendant. I never put these in as they are a different type of aspect: 
they indeed show our relationship to our place of birth - the actual location 
- and should be used as such. 

Visually, we have an aspect pattern here that has three 'pointy bits' 
to the right. I like to see this whole aspect picture as KLM's (or whoever's) 
'crystal'. It is their own specific centre, which always remains the same. 



The Business of Place and The Place of Business 



207 




Figure 1 - KLM Founding, 7 October 1919, Midnight, The Hague 



This pattern is inherent in the time but not the place, so this pattern will 
be present anywhere in the world at that moment. When we relocate we 
effectively roll this aspect pattern around so the three pointy bits will be 
pointing up or down or to the left as we move around the globe. The 
relocation chart (a horoscope made for a specific location at exactly the 
same time as the birth chart) will show the orientation of the crystal - i.e. 
our orientation in that place. The Astro*Carto*Graphy map simply shows 
the summary of all of these (so it shows everywhere where specific planets 
would be on an angle or making aspects to the angles). Although, with 
the software, you can look at all the aspects to the angles, most people 
concentrate on planets on the angles, which is what is done here. 



208 From Here to There 




Figure 2 - KLM founding moment, USA detail 



For KLM, the Sun is on the descendant through the US near 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. We can see this from the Astro*Carto*Graphy 
map, Figure 2. 

What this actually means is that at the exact moment KLM started 
(midnight in Holland) the Sun was exactly setting in Minnesota. So, we 
can then interpret that as we would a normal chart. Places where KLM 
has its Sun on the Descendant line might be seen as locations of partnership 
possibilities. There is something about the places on this line, where the 
Sun is setting, that makes KLM notice them. And KLM certainly did. A 
bit of history taken from the web: 

July 1989: KLM takes an important step towards being a global 
airline by acquiring a 20% share in Northwest Airlines. 



The Business of Place and The Place of Business 209 







05°5p 52 < 
Figure 3 - KIM founding moment, relocated to Eagan, Minnesota 

September 1993: All KLM and Northwest Airlines flights between 
Europe and the USA are operated as part of a joint venture. 

March 1994; KLM and Northwest Airlines introduce World 
Business Class, a new product on intercontinental flights. 

February 1998: KLM-Northwest Airlines alliance honoured with 
Airline of the Year Award' by influential US trade magazine Air Transport 
World. 

The head office of Northwest Airlines (NWA) is in Eagan, Minnesota. 
Figure 3 is set for Eagan and as we can see, the Sun is exactly on the 
Descendant. Note that the aspect points are now to the left but the aspect 
picture remains the same. 

This is after the event of course, but we could have said this 
beforehand and we could still say that other places on this line would 



210 Rom Here to There 

also provide potential for partnership. Anything coming from places on 
that line, be it companies or people, may be potential partners for KLM. 
KLM doesn't have to go there for this to work. But what we do need to 
take into account is that it is not just a Sun in Libra looking for a partner 
with Sun on the Descendant. KLM also has a powerful square to the Sun 
from Pluto and Pluto is on the IC near Minneapolis, making this indeed a 
very powerful place. It could also mean, though, that Northwest Airline 
(NWA) has all the power. With the relocated Moon now in the twelfth 
house, KLM's feelings or the staff of KLM (as the Moon in a company 
chart represents staff in my view) may not be seen. A discussion about 
this with KLM would be necessary to see how this works in practice. 

Interestingly, KLM's main partner now, following a merger, after 
many attempts, is Air France. The Sun on the IC line for KLM runs 
exactly through Paris, so, although Paris is not far away from The Hague 
the natal Sun in the 3 moves enough to put the Sun on the IC, again with 
the square to Pluto. For KLM this is a powerful foundation (IC) for further 
development, which so far has proven to be true, although KLM are 
definitely the smaller partner, as again the Sun-Pluto aspect is brought 
into focus. How much KLM can use this Pluto energy could only be 
ascertained by discussion with them, but the potential and the possible 
problems can be seen. So that's one example of Astro*Carto*Graphy 
and relocation and how it can be used to foster discussion with clients. 

Local Space lines 

So what's the difference between local space lines and the 
Astro*Carto*Graphy lines? This can best be explained visually. Let's 
take KLM again. 

What we see in Figure 4 is the KLM compass, also known as the 
local horizon chart or Local Space directions. The solid lines show the 
actual direction of each planet. 6 The lines of course go in two directions; 
the dotted lines represent the extension of the line in the opposite direction. 
If we take the Sun in this example, which is close to the IC (due North) 
then we see a solid line near the North. If we keep extending the lines 
and continue around the globe, we get the lines shown in Figure 5, in 
which KLM Local Space lines as shown on the globe. As we continue 
around the globe this line will approach the starting point from near the 



The Business of Place and The Place of Business 2 1 1 



Figure 4 - KLM Founding 
Local Space Compass (Local Horizon Chart) 

South - the MC. So, the Sun line in this case runs close to N-S. See the 
Sun line in Figure 5. 

So, if we had a KLM plane we could fly all around the world on 
the Saturn line, probably not one I might personally choose, and we would 
end up back at The Hague. We might have more fan flying on the Venus 
line, or experience more unexpected things on the Uranus line. Travelling 
on the Sun line would mean going almost due north or south and we 
would have Sun experiences on or near this line. Although I can see that 
these lines represent places where these energies are present, I find it 
difficult to get much more out of this technique on a global scale, although 
places that have meaning for clients are interesting to discuss. For me, 
the Local Space compass has more use in the office or in the local 
environment, as mentioned in the personal examples. I would need to do 
more company research to say anything more sensible about this. 



212 



From Here to There 




:x--:. ;*■.«•:■■ ^. 



.: .; 



Figure 5 - KLM Local Space lines 



Bums on different seats - Studio Schrofer 

To finish I would like to give an example of a current client to show how 
I work with these techniques. Studio Schrofer was started as a one-man 
company on 1 st January 1984 in The Hague in Holland. Later, on 1 st 
January 2001 , it was registered at the Chamber of Commerce. See Figure 
6, Studio Schrofer. The January 2001 date is the one I use for them 
(midnight), having checked which one seems to work better now, although 
both charts have relevance. 

The directors are husband, Frans Schrofer, and wife, Sonia Sin. 
Frans is a gifted furniture designer who heads up the design team. Soma's 
background is in PR and marketing, although she does more than this for 
Studio Schrofer. Generally, their clients are manufacturers, who also 
market the products. In the past seven years, their company has rapidly 
expanded with the number of clients growing in Asia and Europe. Design 
is a tricky area, as there is a lot of intellectual property theft and copying 



The Business of Place and The Place of Business 213 



29*158 




29 °/58' 

Figure 6 - Studio Schrofer Registration, 1 January 2001 , Midnight, The 

Hague 
that goes on in this industry. As their products receive more international 

recognition, so the number of intellectual property right infringements 

grows, especially in China. 

First questions 

I first had a quick discussion with Sonia Sin, the co-director, to ascertain 
where their international clients are located. For the discussion here, I 
will cover only international clients. As Sonia is sales and marketing 
based, she gave me information concerning these areas and mentioned 
the China problem, which was her question, although not in detail. Their 
goal (and therefore mine) was to try to see if any other countries might 
be interesting for them in any way and I wanted to see if I could throw 
any light on the China problem to see if I could offer some advice. As 
always, I wanted information from them so I could learn how these lines 
work for them. Only the client knows this and we can never guess how 







Figure 7- Studio Schrofer, A*C*G world map 



The Business of Place and The Place of Business 215 

creative clients can sometimes be with these energies. We also need to 
ascertain this to see if the lines are working in a positive or negative way. 
After all, if they are working positively there is little we can add. 

My preparation 

I looked at the global Astro*Carto*Graphy and Local Space lines, and 
again found the Astro*Carto*Graphy lines to be of more interest. The 
Local Space lines did not touch anywhere they mentioned. See Figure 7 
for the Astro*Carto*Graphy map. 

Of particular interest is the Sun on the Ascendant line which goes 
through China very near Shanghai, which is where the problem lies, and 
also near Singapore and Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam, where they have 
clients as well. 

I also noted that the Sun on the IC line goes quite close to Bari in 
Italy where they have a major client. Bangkok in Thailand, where they 
also have a client is nowhere near any line, so I was interested to find out 
how this works. Now I had my questions and I had my suspicions about 
how their Sun on the Ascendant might work. Are they being too self- 
focused? Is there too much attention for Studio Schrofer where the client 
feels overshadowed? (Incidentally, both directors are Leos!) 

The discussion 

We talked about the lines in general, which they found fascinating, and 
they asked about specific places they were considering as possible 
markets. I gave general information about these; however, we also wanted 
to focus on current problems and current clients. In Soma's words: 

"In Shanghai, a Dutch client sold to a Shanghainese ex-employee, 
so we are actually holding the original Dutch holding company 
responsible for infringements. The Shanghainese want our designs, 
so does the Singaporean based firm (who has manufacturing in 
Indonesia and China) owned by Germans. In Ho Chi Minh City, 
there is a Danish owned manufacturing firm, who want our designs 
as well." 

In all of these, communication and commitment are tenuous. 

"They will take our designs and agree to paying advances for the 
design concept, but when it comes to keeping us within the loop of 
design concept expansion and informing us exactly of their 
developments, we get radio silence." 



216 From Here to There 

The following gives information on specific places. 

Shanghai, China - Sun near the Ascendant: Schrofer 's design collections 
propelled this client to international recognition ten years ago with a 
collection that is now considered mainstream. Unbeknown to Schrofer, 
the company was sold, breaching the contractual agreement. Discussions 
involving lawyers are underway concerning theft of one of their designs. 
The client is postponing action and Schrofer believe that the client does 
not realise the legal implications and complexities of international design 
infringement. There is simply no response from any correspondence. 

I suggested that maybe the correspondence is too self-focussed, 
although this is of course necessary in this case. The other possibility is 
that they are being too careful. Sun on the Ascendant would imply that 
they want to be seen and acknowledged. Perhaps if they can get publicity 
for a great design somehow, the money may not be the top priority. They 
are considering these options and it has given them something to reflect 
on. 

Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam - Sun near the Ascendant: Schrofer has made 
several different proposals to help expand the client's collections, 
incorporating more technology and more eye-catching models. 
Communication with the client entails a lot of designing, but the client 
lacks a clear design strategy. Because the client has tremendous production 
capacity and deals with predominately the mass middle market, they are 
hesitant to create a true market differentiation and an identity. A recent 
reorganisation has created more open-mindedness. The communication 
with their management team has been increasingly synergetic and 
transparent. However, strategic design direction gets dissolved by 
unfocussed 'mid-market' trends, resulting in a lack of clarity and 
commitment for Schrofer. 

Singapore - Sun near the Ascendant: What came out of the discussion is 
that the client here is for some unknown reason stalling with the contract. 
The client refuses to agree with financial transparency . Again, I suggested 
that the contract may be all about Studio Schrofer, with not enough focus 
on the client. I am of course happy to give feedback on this contract and 
they are considering this. Again, it has given them food for thought. 



The Business of Place and The Place of Business 217 

However, to give more information on this problem it is vital to go back 
to the whole chart. It is interesting to note that in all these locations the 
Mercury can be seen in that there are communication problems - a lack 
of response or no clarity. What needs to be discussed with this client is 
how clear and structured (Capricorn) the contract is. Or is Capricorn 
working negatively in that the contracts are too limiting? How are 
discussions being handled with clients? Is there enough clarity before 
the contract stage? Maybe lessons could be learned here. 

If we know that the Sun is near the Ascendant in these three places 
then we also know that this is actually a Sun-Mercury conjunction in 
Capricorn, near the Ascendant. It is obvious that these archetypes are 
being brought into focus at these locations. Communication (Mercury) 
and commitment (Capricorn) and 'radio-silence', a wonderful description 
of this conjunction in Capricorn, are among the problems. 

I always say the solution is in the problem, so the solution is the 
positive use of this aspect, particularly in these places. Actually, what I 
notice is that there is usually a basic problem in the company that happens 
to come to light in these locations. So what would be a positive use of 
this aspect? The issue is likely to be one of authority. Studio Schrofer 
need to be authoritative, clear and state the goal. Capricorn calls for very 
structured communication. If I were the client I would want to know 
exactly what I was agreeing to in having to provide information about 
my developments. As is, that requirement would be too vague and broad 
for me. What might lie behind radio-silence is a fear of Studio Schrofer 
being able to block developments or their being too authoritative or strict. 
How far does a design concept go and what are clients buying? Clients 
would need to have a clear idea of what is allowed. Silence puts the 
client back in the lead. 

Capricorn has an air of the teacher about it; this can also be positive 
or negative. It brings up ideas of punishment but Studio Schrofer could 
think about acting in a sort of mentor role, which would work much 
better. Perhaps a clear contract based on Studio Schrofer having an 
advisory role might stand a better chance of being signed. This still needs 
to be discussed with the client but it gives ideas for possible solutions. 



218 From Here to There 

Bari, Italy - Sun on the IC: This is indeed a big client and is a good basis 
for them. It is going well. What I enjoyed most about this client is that 
the director of the company is also a Leo ! Advice here is to keep this 
client happy and maintain contact. They will want attention and I 
confirmed it is an important base for them. Sometimes confirmation is 
very important to clients. 

Bangkok- no lines: There was a mild reaction to Bangkok: it seemed to 
be neither good nor bad; nothing special, which seems to reflect the lack 
of any lines. 

Although the lines do not run through all the places exactly, they 
appear to be near enough to have an influence and if you look at the 
relocation charts you will see that the Sun is no more than three degrees 
from the specified angle, usually much closer. The only other aspects the 
Sun makes, apart from the conjunction with Mercury already mentioned, 
are, for those of you who use them, a semisquare with Venus and a 
sesquiquadrate with Saturn. 

Sun- Venus can be too nice. How is this working? There is a 
dilemma here with the Sun in the spotlight at these places aspecting Venus. 
Does Studio Schrofer need the limelight (Sun) or is the relationship and 
the customer (Venus) more important? How can they achieve a balance 
(Venus) here? The aspect with Saturn is similar to the discussions on 
Capricorn above. 

I have tried to show how the charts and maps can be used as input for 
discussions. The client always knows more about any issues than we do 
but it is possible to give new ideas, suggestions and advice. Astrolocality 
adds a valued tool to your company toolkit. 

©FayeCossar2007. 



The combination of F aye Cossar 's background in business, together with 
her therapy training and her long experience with astrology, makes her 
unique. Currently, as well as consulting, she teaches in Amsterdam and 
lectures frequently in Holland and London. Cossar offers astrology 
training from her school, The Amsterdam School of Astrology 



The Business of Place and The Place of Business 219 

[ www. asastro logy .nl]\ and business services from her organisation, 
juxtaposition b.v. [www, juxtaposition. nl]Mer business clients have 
included KLM in Amsterdam, (consultant for culture study), NIBC Bank 
in The Hague (consultant forstaff development) and the Ministry of Justice 
in The Hague (management consultant). Cossar can be reached through 
either of her websites. 

NOTES 

1. See the local horizon chart in Solar Fire/Solar Maps (Esoteric 
Technologies) or the Local Space chart wheels and Local Space map 
wheels in Win* Star (Matrix Software). 

2. Steve Cozzi's book, Planets in Locality, has good examples of how this 
can be used. 

3. For more in depth information on this topic, I recommend the book 
Astrolocality Astrology by Martin Davis. Chapter 5 covers this topic in 
more detail. 

4. KLM, Royal Dutch Airlines, founded 1 9 1 9 in the Netherlands. This makes 
KLM the oldest international airline in the world. 

5. For more information on this see www.api-uk.org/artageprog.htm 

6. Directions are worked out in Azimuth, so you need a special program to 
do this. The directions are not easily seen from the birth chart, even though 
the MC is due South and the IC due North (Northern Hemisphere). 



15 

Locality and the Question of the USA 

Birth Chart 
Dale O'Brien and Martin Davis 

This chapter includes the work of astrologer Dale O } Brien and myself. It 

has its roots in a talk I gave at the Tucson Astrologers 'Guild in November 

2005 on Astrolocality techniques. One point of discussion was that a 

'good'birthtime (chart) for the USA, should exhibit a strong correlation 

between its locality maps and the country 's origins and history. O } Brien 

was present and added his overview of USA chart possibilities. His 

important insight is that there have always been two valid birth charts 

for the USA. One, on 04 July 1776, he calls, "the chart of the American 

people " . The other, for 15 November 1 777 , hecalls, "the chart that reflects 

the American elite" . Input from myself and O^Brien follows. The points 

of focus are on two charts, one chart for 4 July 1776 and an Articles of 

Confederation chart for 15 November 1777. 

Local Space in Mundane Astrology 
Martin Davis 

A fertile area for Local Space (LS) analysis is in the field of mundane 
astrological research. LS maps, for example, indicate the 'directionality' 
associated with the politically related events for a country or world region. 
This in turn can help us with rectification studies when a mundane birth 
time is unknown or in dispute. 

There is currently a divergence of opinion as to the 'best' chart for 
the birth of the USA or even whether one chart alone can ever provide us 
a satisfactory amount of information. After many years of detailed 
research, British astrologer Ronald W. Howland proposed an American 
birth time of 1 lam, Local Mean Time, on 4 July 1776, Philadelphia, PA. 
His well-researched work is presented in his book, A Chronology of 



Locality and the Question of the USA Birth Chart 221 




Figure I - USA Holland. l.KAJ Space 1in» 




Figure 2 - USA Howland, Local Space Uranus line 



222 From Here to There 

American Charts. ! Is this chart a good one? A look at it from the 

Astrolocality perspective shows some startling correspondences that 

indicate that yes, it's certainly worthy of further serious study. An analysis 

of the chart itself can be found in Chapter 4 of my book, Astrolocality 

Astrology. 

Let's begin by looking at the telling Local Space map for the 

Howland chart. Figure 1 shows the Uranus line, its origin in Philadelphia, 

running across the Atlantic and right over to London, England. Uranus 

lines are associated with the issues of freedom. We often find rebellious 

behavior along its pathways and directions, springing from a need for 

liberation from past patterns. This of course is & perfect representation of 

the radical and rebellious relationship that the founding fathers had with 

the English monarchy at the time of the Revolution. Figure 2 is a detail 

of this map. Note that the Uranus line from Philadelphia curves upward, 

running exactly through Boston harbour before connecting with England. 

To those who know the history of the events of the colonial uprising this 

is truly amazing. The most important act of American defiance to British 

rule happened in Boston harbour in what has become known as 'the Boston 

Tea Party'. The Local Space map for an 11am 'birth time' confirms the 

historical connection of the events in Philadelphia, Boston and England. 

Uranus issues and Uranus lines seem to play a role in Anglo-American 

■I 
relations even today : 

• Boston (via the Irish- American community) remains the centre of 
anti-British feeling in the USA to this day. 

• Most Americans acknowledge and appreciate what is called the 
'special relationship' (another Uranian keyword) between their 
country and Great Britain. 

• One can note the testimony of British visitors to the USA, who 
state they feel 'free' when traveling there. 

There is more. Figure 3 shows that the same Uranus line running 
southwest from Philadelphia is 25 miles from Atlanta, Georgia, Martin 
Luther King's birthplace ("Free at last, free at last!"). The Uranus line 
also runs within 35 miles of Montgomery, Alabama. It was here that the 
Union experienced another act of rebellious defiance, less than 100 years 
later, when the Confederate states declared Montgomery to be their 



Locality and the Question of the USA Birth Chart 223 




Figure 3 - USA Howland, Local Space Uranus line 




**■ 






Figure 4 - USA Howland, Local Space Saturn line 



224 



From Here to There 



independent capital city; one of the acts that precipitated the US Civil 
War. Montgomery was also the city where Rosa Parks refused to submit 
to segregation laws in what was to become the famous - and effective - 
bus boycott, 1955-56. 4 

Figure 4 is another view of the South Eastern USA. I removed 
some lines so we can focus on the Saturn LS line. Note how the LS 
Saturn line almost perfectly divides what were to become the warring 
Northern and Southern states of the Civil War, with much of the Saturn 
line actually right on the physical state boundaries themselves! 
Astrologically , we know that Saturn represents boundaries, and the Saturn 
line for this map delineates them. 5 

Mars too can give us insights about US relations. See Figure 5. 
Mars itself was almost directly overhead (zenith position) Havana, Cuba 
at the moment described by Howland's 1 lam USA chart. This obviously 




J&J^ 



Figure 5 - USA Howland, Local Space detail with Zenith positions 



Locality and the Question of the USA Birth Chart 



225 



i m$mm i 



i .. 



<£ 

*» ^ 



7— ^r \" " **;*$ 




5 3<*s^-* 



~ 



Figure 6 - USA Howland, A*C*G world map 



226 From Here to There 

implies tension there. The map also shows the LS Mars line running very 
close to Havana and Managua, both locations at which the USA had 
troops stationed in the past and where there are military undertones and 
tensions, some remaining to this day. 

The interested reader is urged to review the corresponding A*C*G 
map for the 11am chart, as shown in Figure 6. In his book Howland 
points out significant historical correspondences, such as: 

• The Pluto-MC line crosses over the southern tip of Japan, aptly 
describing the atomic bombs dropped there in 1945. After the war, 
American influence regenerated Japan, helping its transformation 
into one of the great industrial nations of the 20 th century. 

• The Saturn-MC line near Moscow describes the USA's chilly 
(inhibited) relations with Russia and her former 'Iron Curtain'. 

• The Moon-Descending line runs alongside the most seismically 
active part of the US mainland, the San Andreas Fault in California. 
Howland reminds us that the Moon's connection with seismic 
phenomena is well known to both astrologers and seismologists. 

I can add here that the A*C*G Uranus-MC runs within 70 miles of 
Oklahoma City, OK, the site of a devastating bomb blast, which was 
directed by anarchists against a US government building. That same 
Uranus-MC line is only 35 miles from Dallas, Texas, where US president 
John Kennedy was assassinated, and under 60 miles from Waco Texas, 
the location of what has been called the Waco massacre, involving 
government agents and the members of an anarchistic cult. In the USA 
Howland chart, the Rudhyar Sabian (degree) symbol for Uranus (8 
degrees, 55 minutes of Gemini) has aggressive overtones: "A Quiver 
Filled with Arrows", and a keynote: "Man's aggressive relationship to 
natural life, as a basis for survival and conquest." 6 

Whatever one's preferred 04 July USA chart (11am or not), the 
locality indicators should show strong correlations with its history. The 
1 lam chart looks to be a great fit! 

©Martin Davis 1999. 



Locality and the Question of the USA Birth Chart 227 

America: 1776 to 1777: From a Declaration of 
Independence to The Creation of a Government Of, By, 

and For the Elite 

Dale O'Brien 

Since the late 1 770s, there have always been two valid birth dates for the 
United States. One, of course, is July 4, 1 776, popularly celebrated as the 
nation's birthday since the days of Thomas Jefferson and John Adams. 
On this date, in Philadelphia, at 'about eleven o'clock am', debate ended 
and a vote was taken. The Second Continental Congress verbally approved 
the final version of the Declaration of Independence - primarily written 
by Jefferson and most strongly advocated by Adams. 

Although, at the time, Adams wrote excitedly about July 2 nd , both 
he and Jefferson died on the same day, July 4, 1 826. Each died considering 
July 4 th to be highly significant. Jefferson described the Declaration as 
the "expression of the American mind." Americans have spoken fondly 
for years about 'the Spirit of 76 '.We could call this chart the chart of the 
American people. 

The second valid birth date is far less well known. In York, PA, in 
the 'early afternoon' (at, or just before their 1pm three-hour break) on 
November 15, 1777, the Continental Congress verbally approved The 
Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union. The document declared 
the authority of the Continental Congress as the central government over 
the individual states. This was the birth of the United States government. 
In 1782, the essentially same Continental Congress would declare the 
bald eagle as the new nation's symbol. The 'Articles' chart reflects the 
American elite who quietly, but definitively, did, and very much still do, 
run America. 

The late astrologer David Solte (1949-2002) was the first to bring 

■7 

this birth date to our attention. He used a time of 12:46pm. I use a slightly 
later time of 1:00:30pm. David chose 12:46pm because it seemed to 
coincide with certain significant transits. However, I place the greatest 
significance on the Sabian Symbol Zodiacal degree images for the four 
angles of the chart of this long-established national government. 



228 



From Here to There 




Figure 7 - USA 1 (for 1pm), birth chart 

In York, at 1pm on November 15, 1777, the Sabian Symbol of the 
MC degree, at the top of the chart, is "A Flag Turns Into An Eagle; the 
Eagle Into a Chanticleer Saluting the Dawn." (See Figure 7). How could 
we not have a chart for the US government that did not exalt (MC) the 
ubiquitous USA flag and eagle? Similarly, the corresponding IC Sabian 
Symbol image also perfectly fits the chart. (A discussion of this follows.) 

David's research uncovered "early afternoon". My own research 
determined a scheduled three-hour break starting at 1 pm, less than fifteen 
minutes from David's estimate. (I choose the exact time to the half-minute 
to coincide with other appropriate Sabian Symbol degree images, 
especially the ascendant and descendant degrees.) Although the 
approximate Astro*Carto*Graphy of Solte's chart and what I like to call 
the 'USA 1 (for 1pm)' chart are essentially the same, the latter 
Astro*Carto*Graphy seems to work even more precisely as I will show 
in details to follow. 



Locality and the Question of the USA Birth Chart 229 

I will always treasure the great privilege of speaking often and at 
length and in depth with David about this chart. We agreed on almost 
everything regarding the validity and significance of the chart he called 
the 'Scorpionic America' chart. However, we disagreed when he insisted 
that there could be only one chart for America: his. Similarly, some 
proponents of this chart, years later, still want to negate the use of any 
July 4 chart. 

It is interesting to me that there are about as many versions of the 
July 4 chart as there were colonies that became states. Just as the colonists 
saw themselves differently by region and colony turned state, so do 
different astrologers advocate different times and ascendants for their 
favorite July 4, 1776 chart. Similarly, the dominance-tending-towards- 
paranoia signature of the Nov 15, 1777 chart itself, seems to evoke a 
dominant, power-oriented, monopolistic attitude among some of its 
astrological adherents to this day. 

Historic Context 

To understand the context of the times, a little history is in order. The 
Boston Tea Party' of December 16, 1773 was an action taken not only 
against the king of England, but equally against the king's favoritism 
toward the British East India Company. Other rebellious actions against 
king- and royalty-favored corporations also went reasonably well for the 
discontent Americans before the Declaration of July 4, 1776. 

Thomas Jefferson, predominantly, wrote the Declaration of 
Independence. Then, and later, Jefferson championed significant 
enactment of equality, democracy, freedom, and the rights of man. These 
values were so obvious to him that he described them in his document as 
"self-evident". As an Aries (cardinal) Sun sign, he was perfectly suited 
to initiate something new, declaring this new beginning when the Sun 
was also in an initiating sign, Cancer. 

It Didn H Take Long for Things to Become as Serious as Scorpio! 
Between July 4, 1776 and November 15, 1777, matters became less 
obvious, and far less easy. Newly appointed commanding General, George 
Washington and his army had suffered defeat after defeat. There was 
poor rank and file morale when the war did not end quickly and easily, as 
had naively been expected. The spirited voluntary populist militias of 



230 From Here to There 

'76 were replaced by pampered elite officers, leading and intimidating 
increasingly exploited and impoverished soldiers. (Some soldiers were 
without shoes even in winter; most were threatened with execution if 
they might try to go home. The term 'foot soldiers' had a particularly 
grim meaning at this time!) 

The value of the currency by this point in 1777 was less than 25% 
of its face value! Members of the Continental Congress were told they 
would be executed if caught. The delegates to the Continental Congress, 
concerned for their lives and fortunes, had moved from city to city, driven 
by the impending threat of nearby British troops. Continental 
Congressman John Adams said that they were "chased like a covey of 
partridges" to York, a small Pennsylvania town. As if that wasn't bad 
enough, individual states, commoners and slaves (the latter about 20% 
of the population) were all threatening to take their own freedom. Even 
John Adams' beloved wife, Abigail, advocated freedom and equality for 
women, slaves, and free former slaves. Another very serious problem for 
the Congress members was the reluctance of both the people and their 
colonies/states to adequately pay for the war voluntarily. 

Determined to overcome all of these challenges, these few men 
boldly created and exerted their authority. They confidently did so because 
they considered themselves politically, intellectually, economically, 
morally and spiritually superior to common men ('the rabble'), to women 
('the lesser sex'), and most of all to slaves and the Native Americans. In 
1 774, the wealthiest 1 0% owned over 50% of the Caucasian population's 
wealth, America's wealth. The overwhelming majority of these men 
owned, or had owned, slaves, or benefited directly and significantly from 
slave-based commerce. They were mostly men who had previously, 
individually been dominant and successful. Now they were 
uncharacteristically failing, and were seriously, mortally threatened by 
the then dominant power of their former king and country. 

Scorpion, Where Is Thy Sting? 

On November 15, 1777, these few men came together literally and 
figuratively, and boldly defined themselves as a legally unified national 
governing body. Under these dire circumstances, they needed to do so 
immediately, in order to establish a desperately needed alliance with 
France against their then common enemy, England. John Adams (Sun in 



Locality and the Question of the USA Birth Chart 231 

Scorpio) strongly influenced them as they declared themselves a central 
government at a time when the Sun was also in Scorpio. They were 
determined to no longer feel like, in Adams' terms, "a covey of partridges" 
who had scurried from city to city, and now to this humble little town. 
Less than five years later, they would as a group identify themselves not 
as a flock of several vulnerable little birds, but instead they would be one 
great bird, the greatest of all, the American Eagle. The eagle, in its superior 
position, dominates the sky, the land, and the water (where it feeds). The 
eagle, as they saw it, rightfully dominates everyone and everything. 

The Astro*Carto*Graphy of this USA 1* Chart 

Geographic Relevance 

One fair test of the validity of a chart of a nation should be reflected in its 
Astro*Carto*Graphy and/or Local Space lines. These geographic 
dynamics should be relevant throughout the nation's history. The nation's 
story in any era, anywhere, should make sense using the same techniques 
viable for a human individual, including Cyclo*Carto*Graphy. Consider 
each A*C*G planetary line as a center point, with a range of relevance 
up to 500 miles in either direction if no other lines are present. Proximity 
of more than one line corresponds to an area of blended planetary energies. 
Parans, or latitude crossings, add more specific information. 

A World of Difference! How the American People See and Express 
Themselves in contrast to How the American Controlling Elite See 
and Express Themselves 

It's extremely impressive to see the Howland chart's (11am July 4th, 
1776) Local Space Saturn line basically draw the Mason-Dixon line! 
(See Figure 4). Saturn, the planet associated with defining boundaries, 
divides the country in a way that makes sense. In every era, Americans 
have always divided themselves into Northerners ('Yankees') and 
Southerners. It also makes so much sense to follow the same July 4th 
chart's A*C*G Venus MH line from the Caribbean islands, where sugar 
and sugar-derived rum was shipped, closely parallel to the A*C*G Jupiter 
MH line through merchant-affluent New England. (See Figure 6). 



232 From Here to There 

Basic Location Information for the USA 1 Chart of 
November 15, 1777 

IC: Before exploring Astro*Carto*Graphy for this chart, it is helpful to 
examine the natal chart's IC, including its fourth house story. (See Figure 
7 for the chart). That story is essentially the same for both York, PA and 
the long time home of the US government, Washington, DC. Gemini at 
the IC implies more than one home for governing VIPs. This was true in 
the early stages, but since then as well. Presidents and legislators tend 
not to stay in DC all year round. Uranus here can indicate a discontent 
with weather conditions (DCs heat and humidity). Technology (Uranus) 
makes weathering the city tolerable, plus allows the ability to govern, 
via technology, from places as remote as Crawford, Texas. 

Uranus at the IC opposes the Midheaven, an indicator of potential 
rebellion here. Remember (or learn for the first time) that thousands of 
veterans marched on and camped in the city during the Great Depression, 
demanding much- needed back pay for service in WWL (Payments were 
to be delayed until 1 945). When the Senate retained the same delay period, 
the United States' first millionaire president, Herbert Hoover ordered 
General Douglas MacArthur, his aide Eisenhower (a future Republican 
president), and George Patton to handle the discontent. The US military 
were involved in tear-gassing the veterans and their children, burning 
their shack shelters, and the shooting of two men. 

Since 1800, Washington has been the home of the United States' 
government. For almost as long, DC has been, and it still is, predominantly 
an African-American city, (affectionately formerly described as 
'Chocolate City'). There is much poverty. For the 1pm chart, the IC Sabian 
Symbol degree image is "A Black Slave-Girl Demands Her Rights of 
Her Mistress." 9 DC residents have only limited political self- 
representation, and for most of US history there was no political 
representation ('home rule'). From the beginning, the majority of the 
'founding fathers' either were slaveholders or financially benefited from 
slave trade. Slaves were once traded in the Georgetown area of the city, 
today overwhelmingly white and affluent. 

Political discontent and African- American issues combined in civil 
rights era marches on Washington and Martin Luther King's unforgettable 
T had a dream' speech (Gemini) before the Reflecting Pool. King was 



Locality and the Question of the USA Birth Chart 233 

assassinated the same year that he was to lead a multi-racial Poor Peoples' 
March on Washington. His assassination occurred a year to the day that 
he spoke out against the war in Vietnam, a war that he saw as poor 
Americans killing poor Vietnamese in the interest of America's elite. 
DC has also seen a variety of demonstrations of various discontented 
Americans, demonstrations with people carrying signs with various brief 
slogans (Gemini: saying things while walking, carrying written words). 

Uranus at the IC can also indicate surprising disruptions in local 
residence, shaking the government at its very underpinnings. Uranus can 
be seen as Prometheus (see Prometheus The Awakener, by Richard 
Tarnas). 10 Prometheus, who stole fire from the gods, can be seen, in a less 
flattering light, as a simple thief. What older American can forget the 
Watergate break-in during the Nixon administration, as well as its ultimate 
consequences? What of Daniel Ellsberg and the Pentagon papers? 

MB: So, who are these IC 'Slave' and 'Mistress' 'opposed' to? 
For the 1 pm chart, the MH Sabian Symbol degree image is "A Flag Turns 
Into An Eagle; The Eagle into a Chanticleer Saluting The Dawn." In 
June 1782, this same dominance-oriented American elite chose the 
American bald eagle, an image of dominance, to represent themselves 
and their commander-in-chief- the eagle at the center of the Presidential 
Seal. In the late 1770s, balde meant white, the color of the feathers upon 
the bald eagle's head. (Perhaps the eagle's white head reminded them of 
the powdered wigs worn by some of the elite.) The eagle holds images of 
war in one claw, an image of peace in the other. The eagle looked toward 
the arrows until President Truman had it changed to face the olive branch. 
(Presumably that change was made after Truman ordered the aerial nuclear 
annihilation of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Similarly, the Department of 
War became the Department of Defense, with the capacity to destroy the 
world many times over.) This image also fits the American government's 
worldwide reputation for rooster-like crowing and 'cockiness'. 



234 From Here to There 

Unprecedented Pluto Transit to the Midheaven 

November 7, 2000: A Majority of Americans Voters Choose Gore; 
December 12 t 2000: Five Very Important People Choose Bush: The Elite 
Win 

2000 wasn't the first time that the people's choice was denied the 
presidency; however, it was the first time that the fourteenth amendment 
was used against recounting the votes of the African Americans that the 
amendment was meant to empower. Transiting Pluto was exactly conjunct 
the MC with transiting Chiron just five degrees away, exactly opposite to 
secondary progressed Uranus. 

Thomas Jefferson not only enthusiastically favored democracy but 
also wanted the emerging nation to eliminate slavery. If he were alive in 
2000, he might well repeat a quotation of his: "When the government 
fears the people, there is liberty. When the people fear the government, 
there is tyranny." Or perhaps he'd revise the sentiment to something like 
"When a government fears the people, an elitist government denies the 
people their liberty." 

The USA's Worst Domestic Tragedy: 9/11/2001 

Transiting Saturn conjunct USA 1 Uranus: legal restrictions on non-elitist 
people's free speech and 'right to know'; transiting Pluto opposite the 
same: austere, secretive 'top-down' policies suddenly (Uranus) to be put 
into place. 

When the United States Were the Least United: "Brother Against 
Brother" 

Civil war begins, 1861 : secondary progressed Uranus in Gemini conjunct 
USA 1 *s IC. Transiting Mars in Gemini conjunct transiting Uranus, which 
is just about two degrees shy of the IC. Note that secondary progressed 
Moon was exactly conjunct USA 1 's IC while conjunct the secondary 
progressed Uranus when Lincoln was elected five months earlier. 

First Uranus Return: 1862: Slavery is abolished in DC; the war 
worsens; not enough volunteers eventually leads to the Conscription 
(draft) Act of March 03, 1863, 

Emancipation Proclamation: 1863: Transiting Pallas Athena 
conjunct transiting North Lunar Node, opposite transiting South Lunar 



Locality and the Question of the USA Birth Chart 235 



2£ £g 

at 4 -fa 



si? 5 ^ 

r i 




Figure 8 - USA 1, A*C*G world map 



236 From Here to There 







Figure 9 - USA 1, A*C*G world map, asteroids, Chiron and Lilith 

(Dark Moon) 



Locality and the Question of the USA Birth Chart 237 

Node, exactly conjunct USA l's Uranus. The Proclamation granted 
freedom to most Southern slaves and gave them permission to attack the 
Southern insurgents. Pallas Athena is the ultimate strategist. The 
harmonious aspects indicate apian that worked out just as intended. 

Post War Uranus Transits; The Atomic Age 

Transiting Uranus conjunct IC: April 25 to May 12, 1945 (exact May 9): 
Popular president, Franklin Delano Roosevelt is dead; war in Europe 
ends; communist challenge begins in earnest. For example, there was the 
coming partitioning of Berlin, June 5, 1945. (See also the first occurrence 
of the second Uranus Return, below). 

Second Uranus Return: June 18, 1945; January 11, 1946; March 
31, 1946: UN charter: June 26,1945; Potsdam Conference and first atom 
bomb test: July 16, 1945; Churchill ousted: July 26, 1945; Truman nuked 
Hiroshima August 6, 1945 and Nagasaki August 8, 1945. Note that the 
American people are shown no film, nor photos, nor reports of the 
Japanese civilians killed or horrifically injured by nuclear destruction. 
The CIA is established: January 22, 1946; 400,000 miners strike on April 
1, 1946; Truman has the federal government take over the railroads to 
prevent a nationwide strike: May 17, 1946; The first FDR-influenced 
Supreme Court desegregation decision: June 3, 1946; The army was 
desegregated: July 26, 1946. 

USA 1, Astro*Carto*Graphy: 'Lining Up' America's Controlling 
Elite 

Both Figure 8 and Figure 9 are Astro*Carto*Graphy maps for November 
15, 1777 at 1pm. Figure 8 shows the usual planets. Figure 9 depicts the 
positions of four asteroids, Chiron and Lilith (the dark Moon). All the 
points could be on one map but they are separated here for easier viewing. 
Interested readers are encouraged to review the details from their own 
computer software including the display of parans, which will be discussed 
soon. To assist with this the following list is provided: 

Pallas Athena: Military, political and/or business strategy (especially 
involving a woman); the management of government (MH) or property/ 
defenses (IC); no nonsense; "taking care of business" 



238 From Here to There 

Juno: Allegiances, alliances, partnerships, co-operative ventures. (In the 
USA 1 chart, Juno conjunct Mars in Capricorn in the eleventh house 
indicates military alliances.) 

Ceres (the first asteroid discovered, it is now considered a dwarf planet): 
Food, Farming, Finances: taking care of oneself and/or others. The 
provider is likely to be condescending in the treatment of the one 
benefiting from the provisions. 

Vesta: Dedication to purpose and duty; selfless quiet devotion; 
conscientiousness; loyalty; integrity; the importance of doing what one 
is supposed to be doing. 

Lilith: Refusal to be neither managed nor controlled; fiercely independent; 
'wild'; may be seen as savage, primitive or backward by more cultured 
people/countries; the sometimes frightening wildness of'MotherNature' 
as storms, etc. 

Chiron: Outsider, 'underdog' humans who, because they are different 
from others, may be denied their humanity. In the USA, this has included 
Native Americans, African slaves, free African Americans and the 
physically disabled. Chiron is also associated with environmentalists, 
environmental concerns and problems. Unlikely outsider-turned-insider 
mentor/advisor figures are also Chironic, including awkward 'nerds'. 
Chiron activities are neither 'strictly by the book' (Saturn) nor flagrantly 
violating laws (Uranus). Rather, there is unusual activity that is different 
from what the unimaginative would ordinarily expect. 

York, PA: Where it all began 

The closest line is Jupiter DSC (west of York): Having crossed the river 
from Lancaster on September 30, 1777, the Continental Congress felt 
safe enough to conduct business here. 
Parans (in order of proximity, and therefore relevance): 

Chiron AS C / Juno MH: Feeling vulnerable and misunderstood, but 
coming together cooperatively, compromising on central government vs 
states right issues. Presenting a collaborative structure - a unique hybrid 
of one government of United States. 



Locality and the Question of the USA Birth Chart 239 

Neptune IC/ Juno DSC: uncertain base of operations; longing for an ally 
(the answer to their prayers). 

Mars ASC /SaturnMH: Seriously organizing themselves in order to win 
national autonomy. 

Mars DSC IN. Node ASC: (from Solar Maps): " ...challenged to become 
assertive and focused... Independence and self confidence are keys.. ,and 
it is important that you assert yourself. Under this influence you may 
find yourself thrust into leadership roles..." 

Philadelphia, PA 

The closest line is Uranus IC, the second closest is Jupiter DSC. 

Parans the same as York, PA: Continental Congress's sudden displacement 
from Philadelphia, but Congress later return there. 

New York City 

The closest line is Uranus IC (very close): The Continental Congress had 
sudden relocations of their base of operations from here. 

Parans the same as York, but Mars ASC/Sat MH is closest; Mars DSC/N. 
Node ASC is second closest, and Chiron Ascendant/ Juno MH is third 
closest. 

Boston 

The closest line is Uranus IC. 

Two of a few parans: 

Neptune ASC / Pallas Athena DSC: Idealism challenged to be practical. 
During the earlier years of the pre-revolution and the early revolution 
prior to Nov 15,1 777, idealism drove Massachusetts like no other colony 
or state. Idealism met pragmatism as taxes and other challenges were 
imposed on the idealistically principled. 

Mercury MH/ Mars ASC: Powerful and potentially persuasive logic, but 
can be off-putting to the less intelligent (especially those outside of this 
geographic area). 



240 From Here to There 

Paris, France 

The USA couldn't have existed without French initial support and 
cooperation. The closest line is Jupiter IC: Members of the Continental 
Congress were generously welcomed. 

Exact paran: 

Venus DSC I Mars MH: cultured French 'girlie men' with money help 
their American Continental Revolutionary ally. Peace treaty with England 
signed here. Parisian society ladies found Ben Franklin charming. Perhaps 
they put in a good word for the USA on his behalf? 

Paris' parans within one degree orb: 

Pluto in Capricorn ASC I Moon in Gemini IC: Culture shock, as the 
strange and secretive advocate(s) of a new government try to talk-up 
taking a stand against a common enemy, the King of England. 

Pluto in Capricorn ASC I Ceres IC: Dire need for 'bread' (money) in 
their stance against the colonies' king, France's adversary,. 

Mars ASC I Lilith MH: Insistent persuasion of the French to help the 
unlikely new American government, but Congress' abandonment of 
French contact once they got what they wanted. 

Neptune IC I Pluto DSC: In a most unfamiliar land, the challenge of 
Americans in Paris dealing with people very unlike themselves. 

Jupiter MH I Lilith ASC: Freedom-loving people of the New World 
wilderness helped tremendously by a prosperous, generous French 
government. 

Uranus ASC I Ceres ASC: Freedom to care for oneself; throwing off the 
need for a mother country; autonomy. 

Vesta MH I Moon DSC: Dependence on the French to help sustain the 
tiny flame of their new government (the Continental Congress). 

Venus ASC /PlutoIC: Culture shock: all dressed up and on best manners 
to stir up the French who have the power to bring their dominant adversary 
down. 



Locality and the Question of the USA Birth Chart 241 

Washington, DC - Capitol City since 1800, Essential 
Astro*Carto*Graphical Information 

The closest line is Jupiter DSC, the second closest is Uranus IC: 

Jupiter, under any line: (from the Astro Numeric Service (ANS) 
booklet)" "... prosperity, success, good luck, honor, and accomplishment 
... self-important ... the best place for business .,. growth through external 
addition, and thus under Jupiter, you grow and evolve, under the imagined 
protection of deities or forces favorable to self. Superstition and religion 
flourish under Jupiter, as one's luck and distinction from the mass are 
seen as the product of forces' or persons' favoritism ... Righteousness, 
leisure and bourgeois morals and pleasures triumph ..." 

Jupiter DSC: (ANS booklet) "Here you attract influence and assistance 
from persons in high places ... others ... aid ... financially ... relate to 
people who are well off... excellent location for a lawyer or salesperson, 
and any legal battles go best here ... business or dealings with the public 
prosper. Life seems guided by others and you usually get wide public 
sympathy and support, as well as material assistance ... one of the most 
fortunate areas possible, one in which forces beyond your control seem 
determined that you are to have an easy time of it." 

Blending Jupiter & Uranus: (ANS booklet)" ... your extraordinary good 
luck zone. This is where wishing makes it so, and you are blessed by 
unusual good fortune. You become independent ... You are rescued from 
difficult circumstances, handle more money than is your custom, and 
learn to think on a broad scale ... Daring ideas work ... inventing your 
own idea of universal purpose. Reform can be successfully undertaken 
here, and you pattern yourself after your ideals, aided by the unusual 
luck that manifests from time to time ..." 

Parans within one degree orb of Washington, DCs latitude: Neptune IC/ 
Juno DSC: 

Neptune IC: City built on swampland, Potomac River, Reflecting pool; 
Tidal Basin; Anacostia River; Masonic architecture; monuments to 
Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln. 



242 From Here to There 

Juno DSC: Keywords: fairness, equality, consideration; location chosen 
as approximately midway between northern and southern states; the 
'First Lady' and the White House mystique. 

Neptune IC I Juno DSC: the mystique of certain monuments here, 
especially to three advocates of equality: Lincoln, Jefferson and FDR. 

Sun MH/PlutcASC: (interpretation from Solar Fire) 12 "You are intense, 
obsessive and have great personal power under this influence. You find it 
easy to rid yourself of the unwanted but may be intolerant of others less 
powerful. The use and abuse of power, either your own or other people's 
will become a focus..." 

Also note the "Sun*Pluto" combination description from ANS 
booklet: "... there is a thirst for extreme individualism that manifests 
often in petty criminality, defiance of authority, passion, envy, and an 
overwhelming need for recognition and sexuality that hints at alienation 
and desperation ..." 

About the Locational Dynamics of Significant Nations Involved in 
WW-II With or Against the US Government 

Please refer again to Figure 8, the A*C*G map of this November 15 
chart. Note the planetary lines and the cities they encompass: 

Mars DSC = Berlin: A potential direct and open battlefield enemy 
threatens armed conflict. Here one's adversary will likely win, unless 
another army (the Russians) joins the battle. 

Mars IC = Japan: The warrior who can viably attack one's land (e.g. 
Hawaii) via sneak attack. The challenging wrestler underneath. 

Jupiter IC = London & Paris: The Allied 'family'; expansion of territory, 
safe home, the grand welcome of the US (e.g. the liberation of Paris). 

Pallas Athena in Aries: (The armor-wearing goddess of military defense, 
i.e. Great Britain, The English Channel.) Strategically important area in 
war; armored amphibian landing at Normandy Beach. (See Figure 9.) 



Locality and the Question of the USA Birth Chart 243 

Partner Nations/Potential Partner Nations 

Juno DSC (the nation's 'partner' line): Israel (especially Jerusalem) and 
Turkey. Note - because this US chart has Mars conjunct Juno, partnership 
almost invariably means military alliances. 

Potentially the most dangerous area of the world for the US 

This could be via military action and/or arming of those in the region, as 
well as for the enemies, allies, and innocents in this region: 

Between Mars DSC and Pluto DSC: Here the American governing elite 
has either battle-to-the-death allies or, more frequently, perpetual 
dangerous enemies, in unending battles of revenge followed by revenge, 
fear of violence, or actually engaging in extreme violence and unending 
war, even nuclear conflict or suspicion of Weapons of Mass Destruction. 
No lasting peace with the US government and powers that be is ever 
likely here once hostilities have begun. The relevant area includes Iraq, 
Syria, Lebanon, and America's ally, Israel... See detail A*C*G map, 
Figure 10. 




Figure 10 - USA 1, A*C*G detail, danger zone 



244 From Here to There 

Other telling lines 

Sun MH: Houston, TX: An area from which power rules. 

Pluto ASC: Oklahoma City, OK: Federal building bombing; largest 
munitions plant. Waco, TX: (Branch Davidians. Kansas City, MO: home 
to Truman, who nuked Japan. Crawford, TX: GW Bush ranch: hobby: 
vegetation destruction; near this line US VP. Cheney nearly kills his friend 
and political ally. 

Uranus MH: Hanoi; Saigon; Cambodia: Where the US government 
involved itself in revolutionary action; where a revolutionary government 
threatens the US government. Always expect the unexpected on a Uranus 
line! 

Venus IC: Dubai: Place of tremendous wealth! The elite can even snow 
ski indoors in the midst of the desert outside. Effective 2007, Dubai 
became home to Haliburton, the multi-million dollar, formerly USA-based 
corporation previously headed by US Vice-President Dick Cheney. 
(Speaking of elite, note that when Cheney was tasked by the Republican 
party to choose their Vice Presidential candidate, he chose himself!) 

Pallas Athena MH: goes through nearby Abu Dhabi = A Place of Strategy. 

Pluto DSC nearby Dubai; Abu Dhabi. Secret powerful allies or secret 
powerful enemies. 

Saturn IC: Kabul, Afghanistan; Tashkent, Uzbekistan. The weary burden 
of maintaining an occupied police state in order to prevent the social 
organization of an opposition. Look for approximately seven-year 
commitments, then reassessments. 

Chiron MH: Tehran, Iran. Here the US government powers can take 
actions that are neither clearly legal, nor clearly illegal Solomon-like 
wisdom at best, regarding how the US interacts with the local government. 
Less wisely realized, flawed execution of intentions. 

Pluto DSC: Iraq/Iran border; Kuwait; the Persian Gulf; United Arab 
Emirates; Oman: (from ANS booklet) "There is great danger under this 
line and the battle of selfhood is with a hostile world that seems intent on 
extinguishing you. The world withdraws from you, and leaves you to do 
battle with the very things or people that are closest to you ..." 



Locality and the Question of the USA Birth Chart 245 

Moscow 

The city has very complex A*C*G indicators for the USA chart. Neptune 
IC and Pluto DSC lines are relevant, but neither is exceptionally close. 
This could be interpreted as a disliked opponent who is/seems religiously 
or ideologically opposed to the American government. Increasing the 
complexity, there are 14 relevant parans within plus or minus 1 degree, if 
parans involving Chiron, Pallas Athena, Juno, Ceres and Lilith are 
included. Hence, any juxtaposition of the US government and a Moscow 
based government is subject to change, at very least in emphasis. Similarly, 
any supposed assessment as either friend or foe is not realistic, even if 
the true complex dynamics are only obvious to the consummate insider 
(or perhaps also to some savvy locational astrologer!). 

Changing Lines (C*C*G) Reflect a Changing Story 

September 11,2001 

See A*C*G map detail, Figure 1 1 . Coinciding with the first plane striking 
the WTC tower, Saturn IC and Pluto MH were either side of New York, 
with secondary progressed Mercury IC conjunct New York. 

Meanwhile, a secondary-progressed paran of Pluto IC/Chiron DSC 
at 39N00 near DC and the Pentagon (in nearby northern Virginia) might 
indicate destruction of a government building and death of support 
personnel. However, a Lilith MH/Jupiter-IC secondary progressed paran, 
at within less than Vz degree of latitude from DC, might indicate a safe 
haven for high-level personnel. (Vice President Cheney and his 'shadow' 
government in 'an undisclosed secure location'?) 

President Bush, in Florida at the time, was quite safe near the natal 
Jupiter DSC line, plus secondary progressed Jupiter DSC and secondary 
progressed Moon are running through Florida's panhandle. 

Tertiary progressions are lunar-based, and can show motives for 
emotionally-based actions and reactions. On September 11th, tertiary 
progresseed Saturn DSC and Pluto DSC both went through Afghanistan 
(among other countries, like Pakistan). Bombing and occupation of 
Afghanistan immediately followed. 



246 From Here to There 




£k*» 



Figure 11 -USA 1,C*C*G detail, 9/11 attack 



March 2003: Paris and London 

France went from essential ally in the American Revolutionary War, 
courted by John Adams and others, to a distrusted participant by Articles 
of Confederation architect/US President John Adams, and others, -only a 
few years later. Although France was a US ally again in WWI and WW 
II, this was not so for the US government action against Iraq. 

England, adversary in the US war for independence, but an ally in 
WWI and WWII, was again an ally in the US government's military 
aggression against Iraq. 

Paris and London, just before the US invasion of Iraq in March 2003: 
secondary progressed Mars ASC and North Node ASC near those cities 
indicated US pressure to support US military action. (The same lines 
appear near Rome also, but not as close.) 



Locality and the Question of the USA Birth Chart 247 

Paris: the two closest secondary progressed parans are Sun DSC/Saturn 
MH, plus Mercury DSC/Pallas Athena DSC: France as an important 
potential ally, or a VIP opponent, suggested appeal to a slower, more 
sober governing body - the UN; a call for defensive (Athenian) strategy, 
not Mars aggression. 

London: Jupiter IC/North Node ASC indicates the support the US 
government had desired: a safe, hospitable staging area would also be 
probable (air bases, etc.) 

Federal Government response to post-Hurricane Katrina, New 
Orleans and vicinity, early September 2005 

The most telling story of how those at the highest level of the US federal 
government saw post-Katrina New Orleans and vicinity is reflected in 
tertiary progressions for that time. The hurricane of August 29, 2005 was 
first mistakenly thought to be "not that bad." Even after realizing the 
severity of the problem, federal response was limited and delayed 
(typically Saturnian adjectives). Although the media were there 
immediately, significant federal government presence was not. President 
Bush tried out a new guitar complete with a presidential seal, a gift of a 
country western star. The National Enquirer printed a story implying 
that the former alcohol abuser had fallen back to the bottle. (Supposedly 
the same Enquirer reporter who wrote this story was the first to tell the 
world of the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal.) 

Once a federal presence was established, imposition of law and 
order was the priority. Since then, criminal charges sent liquor store looters 
to jail. A doctor and nurse in a nursing home accused of lethal injection 
mercy killings have been brought up on murder charges. The relevant 
tertiary progressions for August 29, 2005, 7:30am CDT, when the White 
House is notified of the levees being breached, show Saturn and Chiron 
emphasized by tertiary progression (the fastest moving form of 
Cyclo*Carto*Graphy, relevant for brief but dramatic events). The Node/ 
Lilith paran is also relevant: the fierce power of nature. 

The closest tertiary-progressed line, Saturn IC, was nearest New 
Orleans and nearby hurricane-damaged coastal Mississippi, west of New 
Orleans, indicating a serious domestic issue calling for order and 



248 From Here to There 

responsibility. The issue: will the (Saturnian) boundaries/walls (levees) 
of the 'home' (the city of New Orleans) hold as they are supposed to, 
particularly in the poorer (Saturnine) neighborhoods. The outcome: Saturn 
can define the arbitrary imposition of domestic law and order on the 
Chironic, predominantly African- American poor people of the region. 
Mythologically , Chronos (or Saturn) ate his children, or tried to eat them. 
Chiron was his bastard offspring. When Saturn and Chiron aspect each 
other, the issue will be whether or not the poor and those often 
discriminated against will receive just or unjust treatment by the law. 
Unfortunately, usually the treatment received is unjust. 

Adding to the complexity here is tertiary-progressed Chiron IC. 
Chiron IC can be seen as both the troubled/troublesome natural 
environment, and ecological issues, as well as regional people likely to 
be seen (by the prosperous economic elite at highest level of government) 
as less than human. Regarding the environmental issue: the ecologically- 
minded had unsuccessfully tried to warn the federal government (and 
others) about the danger of the ongoing destruction of the wetlands, 
particularly in the event of a serious hurricane. Global warming analysts 
(also Chiron IC) had also unsuccessfully tried to warn of the increasing 
probability of greater and more frequently occurring hurricanes due to 
global warming, also to no avail. Ever the underdog unheard Cassandra, 
such Chironic environmental advocates are particularly at a disadvantage 
when Saturn is involved. (Mythic Saturn would have eaten all of his children 
if he could, and Chiron was not only his son, but also a bastard son!) 

Similarly, any advocates of the poor and unfortunate were/are at a 
great disadvantage here. Remember that the federal government saw their 
African- American ancestors, the slaves, as less than human. Legally the 
federal government saw the African-origin slaves as 3/5 human. 
Unfortunately, apparently not a lot had changed. Katrina victims who 
lost everything were given FEMA checks for up to $2,000. Supposedly 
because of allegations of fraud, in the next disaster, those applying for 
federal assistance must not only somehow prove that they did indeed 
reside in the devastated area. Even if able to do so, maximum cash benefits 
to be paid will, by law, be limited to no more than $500 each. 



Locality and the Question of the USA Birth Chart 249 

Post-Katrina African-American voices said that President Bush 
doesn't care about 'Black people' 

The USA 1 chart and its Astro*Carto*Graphy imply the same, not only 
about the GW Bush administration, but about the collective American 
elite that have and still do run this country. Like their elite predecessors, 
the 1777 Continental Congress, these modern day elitists don't seem to 
care much about the ordinary people of other colors. By every economic 
measure, the richest of the rich have become significantly richer under 
the Bush administration, the middle class has shrunk, and the number of 
ordinary Americans living in poverty has significantly increased during 
the same time period. Note that the big astrological difference during 
this time period has been Pluto transiting into the USA 1 tenth house. 
The 'Plutocracy' is in charge, now more than ever in the United States. 

©Dale O'Brien 2007. 



Dale O ] Brien is a full-time professional astrologer, A *C*G-certified by 
Jim Lewis in 1991. He has had articles in The Mountain Astrologer and 
other magazines and has taught, lectured and performed for major 
astrological organizations such as UAC, ISAR, NCGR and ARC. O ] Brien 
offers a wide variety of astrological services. He can be reached through 
his web site: www .docchiron.com , or by email: docchiron@yahoo .com , 
or by phone: 001 541 485 9772. 



NOTES 

Poz Publications (1998). With over 500 charts, Howland's book is a feast 

of American charts and historical information - recommended. Howland 

can be reached at his email address roninlucy a@ yahoo .com 

The Wessex Astrologer Ltd , UK, ( 1 999), pages 119-128. Astrologers will 

note the Virgo rising with Neptune prominent, the Gemini Midheaven 

and the Aquarius Moon. 

Interested readers will note that the LS Uranus line continues eastward 

from London near to Paris (the French supported the US in its War of I 

Independence), then it runs on between Jerusalem and Baghdad, two cities 

with a different 'special relationship' with the US to this very day. 

Although the gains of the Montgomery bus boycott were small compared 



250 From Here to There 

with the gains blacks would later win, the boycott was an important start 
to the movement. The lasting legacy of the boycott, as Roberta Wright 
wrote, was that "It helped to launch a 10-year national struggle for freedom 
and justice, the Civil Rights Movement, that stimulated others to do the 
same at home and abroad." 

5. Timothy Leary and revisionist historians have postulated that the real 
cause of America's Civil War was not the issue of slavery but the 
conflicting reality viewpoints of the industrial (the North) vs the 
agricultural (the South). Looking at the core issue of the war in this light 
also makes the Saturn line meaningful because it truly separates the 
industrial and agricultural sections of the country. Note that Saturn runs 
along the very southern (bottom) boundaries of the industrial states of 
(West to East): Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, and Pennsylvania, separating them 
from the more rural and agricultural states below them. 

6. An Astrological Mandala, by Dane Rudhyar, Vantage Books, New York, 

1974. 

7. For a memorial to Solte, see 
http://www.solsticepoint.com/astrologersmemorial/solte.html 

8. Cyclo*Carto*Graphy (C*C*G) lines are the moving transiting and 
progressed lines relative to the fixed lines of an A*C*G map. Both the 
names A*C*G and C*C*G are copyright to Jim Lewis's estate. 

9. See The Sabian Symbols as an Oracle, by Lynda Hill, self-published, 
Australia, 2002. Also see: 360 Degrees of Wisdom, by Lynda Hill, Plume 
(Penguin) USA, 2004. 

10. Spring Publications, Connecticut, USA, 1995. 

11. See http://www.astronumerics.com/ 

12. The Solar Fire and Solar Maps computer programs are products of 
Esoteric Technologies Pty. Ltd, South Australia. Text by Stephanie 
Johnson. 



16 

A History Lesson: 

The A*C*G, Geodetics and Local Space of 

the George W Bush Presidency 

Arielle Guttman 

In conclusion, we have another piece by Arielle Guttman. We opened the 
book with her chapter from The Astro*Carto*Graphy Book of Maps, 
written in 1988, which introduced A*C*Gas a substantial biographical 
tool. Here, she deftly blends the three locality techniques of A *C*G, Local 
Space and Geodetics to give us a 'history lesson \ one which is very 
close to her heart and, she says, was inspired by the late Jim Lewis. 

From working within the mythic and archetypal dimensions of astrology, 
we know that the planets act in accordance with their archetypal natures. 
In my mind, there is no better way to see these themes come alive than in 
locational astrology, where the living archetype plays out its drama on 
the landscape of our lives. People who use Astro*Carto*Graphy as a 
means of understanding their lives know that living on a Pluto, Venus, 
Mars or Mercury line does indeed bring that character to life in ways too 
numerous to count. The voices of some of these planets are gentle and 
loving; others absolutely scream at us. This puts us in a workable 
framework to best use Astro*Carto*Graphy. It is not a case of, "Is this a 
good place or a bad place for me to live?" The truer question becomes, 
"Does this planet serve my needs? Or, "Is this planet useful to me in my 
life theme at this stage?" We should remember that the planets (as shown 
in our birth charts) do not exist outside of ourselves, but are part of our 
own lives, residing in our own psyches. 

The use of Astro*Carto*Graphy along with Geodetics (Geo-detics 
= geo = geography = Gaia) is another winning combination, especially 
when viewing situations and events that have a global impact. You could 



252 From Here to There 

call Geodetics the astrology of planet earth. While this system lends itself 
well to A*C*G maps, the Geodetic placements on the map convey a 
more universal, global and archetypal view of the energy at hand, while 
the personal A*C*G map is just that: personal to its owner. 

Nothing has had a greater global impact in recent years than the 
presidency of GW Bush. The November 2000 election itself was a case 
study in classic textbook astrology, especially regarding the Mercury 
retrograde phenomenon (delineated later in this piece), but also contained 
other juicy pieces of transit and eclipse tidbits which included a real-life 
drama of the nodes, Jupiter, Saturn, Neptune and Pluto as they made 
landfall over key geographical areas. Following the election was the 2001 
Inauguration, which has proven to give us even greater insights into what 
we could expect with this administration and its key players. 

The Astro*Carto*Graphy Map for the Election of 2000, set for 
November 7, 7pm EST (See Figure 1), contains a striking planetary 
signature, which includes the nine-month long opposition (September 
2000 to May 2001) of Jupiter and Pluto that was peaking that year. This 
opposition occurred on the USA natal horizontal axis, giving it a much 
bigger impact on the country and its citizens than just any old Jupiter/ 
Pluto aspect would have. 

The space in-between any two planetary A*C*G lines can be treated 
as the boundary of operational field energies for that particular planetary 
pairing or aspect. In this case it was Washington DC and Florida. Jupiter, 
you will note from the A*C*G map, is placed over Florida and it was the 
first time in US history that an election was based on a selection, first by 
the Florida Court, then by the US Supreme Court in Washington (where 
Pluto, among others, sits), and where the will of the people casting the 
ballots of the candidates of their choice was all but ignored and rendered 
insignificant. A precedent-setting presidential (s)election, indeed. 

There are two ways to project the planets on a map with A*C*G. 
The map featured in Figure 1 is the In Mundo version, which places the 
planets in a truer relationship to the horizon of any location by considering 
how far off the ecliptic that particular planet rises or sets. It was Jim 
Lewis' preferred way of projecting the planets. There is also a Zodiac 
projection, which is used in Figure 2. This method ignores the ecliptic 



A History Lesson 253 




Figure 1 - A*C*G Map of Election Night 2000 - In Mundo 



and simply projects the planets in zodiac order on the degree they are 
occupying at that moment. 

What's particularly striking about the true Zodiac version of this 
map (Figure 2) is that the afore-mentioned Jupiter/Pluto opposition 
precisely straddles the state of Florida. Pluto sits over Dade County (Miami 
and West Palm Beach); voters there were treated to a very real-life Pluto 
on the Descendant drama when illegal seizure of power occurred. Add to 
this the opposition of Jupiter (over Tallahassee - Florida's capitol and 
the seat of its high court), in its fallen sign and retrograde, where 
scandalous impropriety from the highest places reigned down upon the 
people - so uncharacteristic for a US election that one would have thought 
this was a military take-over in a banana republic. (Minus the bananas; 
recent history has proven this to be true). 



254 From Here to There 




Figure 2 - A*C*G Map of Election Night 2000 - In Zodiac 



Astrology as a science involves capturing the planets in a particular 
pose of the moment and freezing it, much like a photograph. The birth 
chart of election night will not go away. Though it 'happened one night' 
it is something that impacted for a four-year minimum, leading toward 
eight and beyond. It lives on for the extent of its life. 

For those who don't recollect clearly the details of what happened 
that night, here is a summary. Voters in Dade County, particularly the 
aforementioned places, were treated to a nightmare of confusion, including 
ballots so skewed they couldn't be read and Gore's name couldn't be 
located. Then, when a voter believed he was casting a vote for Gore, it 
turned out that the vote was registered for Pat Buchanan or Bush. At this 
point in the story it would be a good idea to introduce the concept of 
Mercury retrograde. 

Mercury, the single most 'tricksy' planet was in the single most 
trickster position it could be in on Election Day 2000. Forever in my 
memory as an astrologer, this event will carry the signature of the most 



A History Lesson 255 

retrograde of all Mercury retrograde events I have witnessed in my 
lifetime. 

Mercury retrograde is a message that blazes to the astrologically 
literate to: read the fine print carefully before making a decision that is 
irrevocable. The ironic part of this is that Mercury was stationary on 
Election Day, about to turn direct that night, but before it did, it had to 
traverse a dramatic shift of signs and directions that even the most astute 
navigator would have found mind-boggling. Within 24 hours of the 
election, Mercury was ordered to leave Scorpio, enter Libra, turn direct 
from retrograde, then re-enter Scorpio. As the rules of engagement for 
each direction, station and sign placement for Mercury are different, even 
the usually bright and competent over-soul of Mercury, Hermes himself, 
was befuddled and confused by all of this. As he himself has been pegged 
with the most trickster energy of any of the planetary players, you could 
say we were all in for one of the biggest tricks of all. It's interesting to 
recall at this point that Mercury is the planet that disposits Jupiter in 
Gemini for this event, and that Mercury is clearly the communication 
channel. Those remembering this particular election night will recall how 
the news media were changing their tunes by the hour and by the minute, 
embarrassingly and awkwardly attempting to keep up with the changing 
charade of events that Mercury itself was going through that fated night. 

So much for the event. Now, who were the planetary players for 
this particular dramatization? The starring planet in both candidates' charts 
was none other than Neptune, as both Al Gore and GW Bush have 
Ascendants of early Leo rising. There was Neptune, straight on opposition 
to both of them. If you think the people were confused, imagine being in 
their shoes. They, no doubt, were the most confused of all that night, as 
the orchestration of these events was clearly in the hands of the Jupiter/ 
Pluto police force, behind closed doors in a steamy, murky underworld 
setting. Both of these political figures (Gore and Bush) have their natal 
Neptune lines occurring over the East Coast, and specifically Florida in 
their natal A*C*G maps Let's start with a review of Al Gore's natal ACG 
map. See Figure 3. 



256 



From Here to There 




Figure 3 - Al Gore A*C*G Map 



Bad news for Gore: notice the Sun/Neptune opposition in the birth 
map, playing out near Tallahassee Florida, where the Court decided to 
select the President rather than observe constitutional US law to let its 
citizens elect the President. With Pluto Ascending close enough to 
Washington to be dangerous, Gore was pushed into a corner of the ring 
and forced to accept defeat, even knowing there was no evidence proving 
that outcome. The Sun MH position for Gore, one that indicates fame 
and glory, passes through the state of Tennessee, his home state. 

Now, let's look at Al Gore's A*C*G map in the Geodetic zodiac, 
Figure 4. 

His Sun, Neptune and the asteroid Pallas all congregate over 
Florida. The Sun-Ascending, precisely over Florida, suggests a victory 
in that state. But Neptune, in opposition to the Sun, is literally producing 
a tidal wave over Miami, and Gore wound up being affected even more 
than Bush by the Florida ballot fiasco and court decision because of that 



A History Lesson 257 



Mo As Ds 










At Os 



Figure 4 - Al Gore Geodetic A*C*G Map 



placement. As for the presidency, Gore's Sun is close to Washington but 
not close enough. The asteroid Pallas is close to Washington, but not 
close enough. Neptune is close to Washington, but as a politician there, 
you probably wouldn't want it any closer than it is. Neptune is shadowed 
in Gore's chart (in an opposition to his Sun). That's a situation that asks, 
"What just happened?" or "What is it I'm not seeing?" or "How could I 
have fallen for that one?" And that's why, if you're afraid of Neptune - 
and it's astounding to me how many people are - it comes down to just 
that. The shadow side of Neptune is that it resides in the shadows, in the 
fog, but oh what seduction! It's not seen because people don't want to 
see it. Then, when they come out of it, they wonder how they didn't see 
it. And further, it's as if the entire country didn't see it. 

Gore was actually influenced by three Neptune positions on 
Election Day 2000: transiting Neptune opposite natal Ascendant, Neptune 
in the A*C*G map of Florida, and Neptune in the Geodetic map of Florida. 
That's just too much Neptune to make any sense out of the events as they 



258 From Here to There 




i n - 



Figure 5 - George W Bush A*C*G Map 



A History Lesson 259 

occurred and to give any real understanding to the situation at hand. It 
literally means there's a leak in the boat, but we can't see it; we just 
know we're sinking fast. 

Now for the GW Bush map and the Election of 2000. See Figure 
5. Like Gore, Bush has his Sun passing through his home state of Texas. 
For a politician, the Sun line is important. For anyone, the Sun lines on 
the map are important, especially the visible areas of the Sun: where it 
rises and where it culminates. This harkens back to its astrological 
rulership of Leo, the sign of the King or the young prince. In cases like 
this you often have an archetypal shadowing overruling the facts. That 
is, people perceive the person with the Sun in a given place to be the true 
leader or winner of the prize or position: the one who deserves the most 
fame, the highest rank and victory over their competitors, even if they 
are less skilled, less intelligent or less qualified for the job. With the Sun- 
Asc passing through Texas, Bush would shine as its representative on the 
national scene, especially with his particular family backing and support. 
But Washington is even better for him. Clearly, with this many planets 
hugging the nation's capital (seven in highly angular positions), there 
would be few people with this amount of planetary clout to challenge 
him. And it gets even stronger when taking into consideration the 
Geodetics. See Figure 6. 

Here we have a case of five to seven planets (depending upon your 
use of orbs) affecting Washington DC and Florida. Again, we have the 
Sun (in this case occupying the lesser visible position, the IC) precisely 
over Washington. And in this case the Sun therein suggests a position of 
receptivity and some obfuscation, as we never see the Sun at midnight. 
The circumstance of an individual having so many Geodetic positions 
over Washington puts that person in a position of great power, using the 
rule of Will as their mode of operation. The combination of planetary 
power over both maps literally gives the individual carte blanche to do 
what he wants with little concern for how it affects the nation. It's the 
rule of the King, the tradition of which comes down from former times 
as: "if it's good for me, it's good for everyone else." Between the two 
maps, it was as if destiny carried Bush to Washington in a carpeted, 
canopied hand-basket with an entourage, much like Cleopatra's entrance 



260 From Here to There 



m§ I 4 




i ft 






Figure 6 - George W. Bush Geodetic A*C*G Map 

into Rome. And he himself had little to do with it, apart from showing up 
and smiling for the cameras. 

What's interesting from an astrological point of view, regarding 
both candidates' maps, is that they are both about the same age, they 
both have an early degree of Leo rising, they both were having a Neptune 
opposition to their natal Ascendant, they both have personal and Geodetic 
Neptune over the state of Florida and they both had the Sun representing 
them from their home state. It was a difficult election for astrologers to 
call. Most picked Gore to win this election, and if the ballots had been 
cast and read properly, I believe he would have won Florida, thus winning 
the US because, at that point, Florida was the critical mass that would 
turn the tide one way or the other. Though I believe he would have won 
Florida, I had to use some amount of objectivity in picking who I thought 
would wind up as President, and based on A*C*G and Geodetic map 
renderings, I had to conclude Bush would wind up in the White House. 
The powerful vortex of planets surrounding Washington for him in both 



A History Lesson 261 

maps forces him to act out some kind of destiny or pre-written script 
there. The force of planets that cushions him represents the interests of 
the people and corporations he is cloistered by, leaving him little room to 
deviate from the script. 

In the weeks following the election, Mercury became direct in 
Scorpio and the news media could not stop headlining the story of the 
Florida vote, the Florida re-count, the Florida court decision and, finally, 
the US Supreme Court Decision. In early December, Mercury left Scorpio 
to enter Sagittarius, and the die was cast. We were now to forget everything 
we just heard; Neptune was still casting its hypnotic effects. The new 
King had been announced, orders were issued for the news media to stop 
running this story and get on with other pressing business, such as the 
annual glorification of holiday time and shopper alerts, lest business suffer 







Figure 7 - Inauguration 2001 Geodetic A*C*G Map 



262 



From Here to There 



from such uncertainty in leadership; and so that America would not suffer 
from the humiliating exposure that this totally unconstitutional, unlawful, 
unprecedented, but especially, unresolved take-over might mean for its 
innocent citizens. 

On election day 2000 the transiting lunar nodes, which are always 
related to nearby eclipses, were featured in the Geodetic map, just off the 
East Coast of America. In the year 2000, there was an unprecedented 
number of eclipses (six - the usual being four per year). These eclipse 
and node degrees occurred on or around the US natal Sun (13° Cancer), 
the US natal Geodetic MH (12° Capricorn) and the natal Sun of GW 
Bush (13° Cancer). On Inauguration Day 2001 , when King George would 
be crowned, the South lunar node was conjunct the nation's capital. See 
Figure 7. 

Such a placement indicates what we had in store for us: a harkening 
back to the past to resolve some unfinished business. The new cabinet 
contained seven members of GW Bush's father's former cabinet and 






-JC 1 !- 




Figure 8 - The A*C*G Map of the Inauguration of GW Bush 



A History Lesson 263 







36' 
iff 


"^" 2B*^40' 






/ T / 


19 - * ~ 
V 1 


^r^ 










^11y^ ^\ 


e h 




h 

AT 






'« 


'GW Bush Inauguration 
Jen 20, £001 

■ Washington. DC 

\ 12:02:24 PM EST / 


i.T] 


17" TlIS"^ 


14' 


U01 




L 1 


rflh 




\ 13* V 

\ I \ 

\ 35" * 








4^ 




/ Q7 / 


* 


\G6* f 


^1 H 


' 5 










^_^^ 36*tf*0' 





Figure 9 - Chart of the Inauguration 

would take the country backwards in time to the pre-Clinton era, virtually 
erasing every gain and accomplishment Clinton had produced in his eight 
year term. 

The A*C*G Map of the actual Inauguration (12:02:24 pm on 
January 20, 2001) is even more telling. See Figure 8 for the map. Also 
see Figure 9, the inauguration chart. 

Here, what clearly stands out is an angular Mars on the Descendant 
position of the map and chart of the event. Mars, powerfully placed in its 
own sign of Scorpio and in an angular position of the chart, gives that 
planet strength and power above all else. To make matters worse, Mars 
in this chart is square Mercury, square Uranus and in a wide opposition 
to Saturn, indicating a shadowed effect. Mars so highly amplified gives, 
first and foremost, an aggressive, warrior stance, and also gives the 
military the rule of law. Mars on the Descendant in any chart can indicate 
hostile relations with partners, open enemies, and in the house of peace 



264 From Here to There 




















Figure 10 - Mars lines for the Inauguration of GW Bush 



A History Lesson 265 

can actually mean war. There was no doubt in analyzing the chart of this 
event that we would be faced with four years of a warrior national stance, 
emanating from the White House. Guns and state-of-the-art weaponry 
pointing out from the White House Oval Office would make its residents 
feel secure. But, clearly, with Mars Descending over Washington, this 
location is where Bush is in the greatest danger himself! 

Jim Lewis used to say, "US Presidents love making war on their 
Mars lines." In this case, between the chart of George Bush personally 
and the Inauguration Chart, the Mars spreads itself out pretty much over 
the world, including his own residence. 

The Inauguration A*C*G map Mars culminates over Alaska, and 
in the first days of his presidency Mr. Bush asserted that the Arctic Wildlife 
Refuge was non-essential and open game to oil drilling. Another Mars 
line in this map falls between China and Japan; in the first few weeks of 
Bush's office, Asian relations quickly deteriorated. But the ongoing assault 
to Japan has been his and his administration's complete disregard for the 
Kyoto Agreement, which sets limiting goals on greenhouse gases. Though 
other industrial nations have signed up to the agreement, Bush chose to 
reject it, questioning the validity of any limits. See Figure 10 which is an 
A*C*G map of the Inauguration showing just the Mars lines. 

Within six months of the Inauguration, the most pronounced full- 
moon eclipse for the country and its president was experienced on July 
5, 2001 at 13° Capricorn, portending a crisis situation for both country 
and president in the weeks and months that followed. At the same time, 
the Saturn/Pluto opposition was coming into place across the US natal 
horizontal axis. (Sibly chart, July 4 th , 1776, 5:10pm, LMT) 

Some very clear examples of this 'Mars effect' will also come 
from Bush's Local Space map. See Figure 1L 

The Local Space map gives us another picture of planetary 
projection. In this case, all planets emanate from the birth place out to 
the horizon in whatever direction they happened to be pointing. A very 
sharp image of this extended Mars for Bush shoots itself to the Persian 
Gulf, encompassing Iran, Iraq and Saudi Arabia but practically screaming 
down the streets of downtown Baghdad. Bush's Pluto Local Space line 
(the higher octave planet of Mars) passes through Paris, France, where 
chilly, if not downright hostile relations soon surfaced with French 



266 From Here to There 




Figure 1 1 - George W Bush Local Space Map 



A History Lesson 267 

president Jacques Chirac regarding the US invasion of Iraq. Pluto and 
Venus pass close to Mecca as well, symbolizing both Plutonian conflict 
with the Muslim world and possibly the desire for their oil riches. 

By the end of 2006, transiting Saturn triggered all the planets in 
the fixed T-square of the 2001 Inauguration Chart (see Figure 9). It fell 
into a first-quarter square to itself from Leo, a third-quarter square to 
Mars and an opposition to Mercury and Uranus. Saturn reached the nadir 
of the chart in 2005, indicating a low point for this chart at the same time 
it reached its own first quarter phase of the cycle. That would give the 
project at hand a sense of extreme challenge and potential crisis, while at 
the same time indicating attempts to elicit support from friends and allies 
who question the aims and sanity of pursuing such a direction. Themes 




Figure 12 - The Geodetic chart for Baghdad, September 2006. 



268 From Here to There 

of failure, particularly in leadership and management face the individual 
at this stage in the cycle. Bush's former allies and supporters of his military 
campaign began to question the mission and its purpose. Also, in 
September-October 2006 transiting Saturn arrived at the ascendant degree 
(19° Leo 39) of the Geodetic chart for Baghdad. See Figure 12. 

This would indicate a show-down in Iraq, creating a brick wall or 
a ring-pass-not situation. Saturn spoke by warning this administration 
that it wouldn't be possible to push forward any more with the mission in 
Iraq as outlined previously. To succeed from this point, a completely 
new direction would have to be defined and practiced, or stalling and 
stalemating of any activity would transpire. (Note: within a few months, 
on December 06, 2006, the Iraq Study Group released its official report 
to the President, Congress and the public, affirming this need for new 
approaches.) 

Keep in mind that personal horoscopes operate differently from 
event horoscopes and mundane considerations. You and I have free will 
to determine how we will best make use of our planets, whether they are 
consciously directed or shadowed. It is clear from the above example 
that destiny had a hand in playing out these events which became much 
bigger on the world stage than the situations and events of the average 
individual. But what is also clear is that the A*C*G Geodetic and Local 
Space maps are excellent tools for understanding how energies play out 
on the world stage. We as astrologers can make use of our understanding 
of planetary archetypes and make our own choices. Right? 

© Arielle Guttman 2006 [excerpts from NCGR lecture, 2001 .] 

This article is dedicated to the memory of Jim Lewis, whose voice spoke 

during its preparation. 



Index 



Astro*Carto*Graphy 
accident 83, 84 
Book of Maps 9,25 
business 203,208, 214 
fixed stars 168, 173 
Geodetic 114, 119, 126,257, 

260,261 
introduction, 3,78,89, 143, 

144, 145 
Jyotish locality 142 
mundane 39, 40, 42, 44, 67, 

69,70,72,225,235,236, 

243,246,253,254,258, 

262,264 
parans4,38,79,86, 104, 111, 

166 
rectification 50, 5 1 , 52, 53 
reincarnation 93, 96, 100, 

102, 104, 107, 109, 111 
relocation 31, 32, 33, 36, 37, 

38,52,59,69,72,78,79, 

125, 135, 155, 157,208 
reports 9 

Solar Return 196,200,201 
synastry 46,47,48,49 
USA 220, 225, 235, 236, 243, 

246,253,254,256,258, 

262, 264 

B 

Baigent, Michael 7 

Blair, Tony 72 

Bonaparte, Napoleon 98, 99, 100, 

Bradley, Donald 2 

Brady, Bernadette 168, 194 

Bush, GW43, 58, 59, 67, 69, 70, 72, 
186, 189,258,260,261, 
262,263,264,266 



Campion, Nicholas 7 

Cassidy, Kathryn 162, 167 

Chavez, Hugo 39 

CONTINUUM 13, 14,92 

Cossar,Faye203,218, 219 

Cozzi, Steve 10 

Cunningham, Donna 14, 130, 140, 

141 
Currey, Robert 13, 16,58,75 
Cyclo*Carto*Graphy 

examples 49, 50, 58, 83, 84. 
166,246 

introduction 7 



D 



Davis, Martin 1, 10, 15, 17,31,35, 

36,51,52,220. 
Destiny Point 10, 35, 36, 44, 46, 47 

48,52 
Duncan, Gary 2 

E 

Earhart, Amelia 123, 125, 126 
Erlewine, Michael 4, 5, 10, 89 
Esoteric Technologies 12, 14 



Fagan, Cyril 2 
Fenton, Sasha 15 
Firebrace, Roy 2 

Flaherty, Dennis 14, 142, 155, 157, 
160 



Geodetic charts 118, 122, 267 
Geodetic World Map 11, 113, 114, 
119, 126 



Gore, Al 256, 257 
Graves, Robert 103, 104 
Guttman,Arielle8, 15,25,29,251 
268 

H 

Hand, Robert 9, 15 
Harding, Michael 1 1 
Harvey, Charles 4, 7, 8, 11 
Hathaway, Edith 12 
Heyerdahl,Thor95,96,97 
Hillary, Sir Edmund 117 
Howe, Gregg 3, 8 
Howland, Ronald 220, 22 1 , 223 , 
224,225 



M 

MacLise, Ossian 108, 109 
Mann,A.Tad93, 111 
Mann, Thomas 101, 102 
Mar, Maya del 8 
Matrix Software 5, 9,12, 16 
McCauley, Karen 13, 14 
McRae, Chris 11,113,128 
Meadows, David 15, 196,202 
Michelson,NeilF. 8 

N 

Nixon, Richard 185 



Irving, Kenneth 14 



O'Brien, Dale 220, 227, 249 
Onassis, Jacqueline 26 



Jawer, Jeff 8 
Jayne, Charles 2, 4, 6 
Johndro, Edward 1 , 4 
Jolie, Angelina 47 
Jyotish locality 142 



Picasso, Pablo 105, 106, 107 
Pitt, Brad 47 

R 

Relocation issues 130 



K 

KLM charts 207, 209, 211,212 



Lewis, Jim 2, 8, 12, 13, 16,25, 143, 

268 
Lincoln, Abraham 182 
Lindbergh, Charles 31, 32, 33 
Local Space 5, 6, 10, 11,31,34,53, 
89,97, 100, 102, 104. 
107, 109, 165,210, 
211,212,220,221, 
223,224,266 
compass 211, 212 



Sepharial 1 

Shivdasani, Sonu 37, 38 
Smith, Captain Edward 53 
Solte, David 227, 229 
Studio Schrofer213, 214 
Sullivan, Erin 15 



Thatcher, Margaret 41, 42, 43 
Thompson, Angel 13, 14, 87, 92 

u 

USA birth chart 220, 228, 235, 236, 
243 



Index 271 



v 

Verdi, Guiseppe 110, 111 

w 

Washington, George 1 78 

White, Maya 76, 78, 79, 83, 84, 86 



