Roots of 



Naadi Astrology: 

A Comprehensive Study 



Contents 



Ch. Description Pg. 

No. No. 

Prologue vii 

Roots of Naadi Astrology Introduction . ix 

What You Read » xxvii 

1 Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 1 

2 Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Keralam 93 

3 Bhrighu Nandi Naadi . 144 

4 Stellar Based - Naadi System - Method 1 206 

5 Stellar Based - Naadi System - Method 2 251 

6 Stellar Based - Naadi System - Method 3 315 



Prologue 



Informative articles on Naadi have flooded the internet and 
many authors have come up with Naadi books with different 
titles which contain either the material from Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 
or some stellar based system. 

My books on Naadi Astrology like Revelation from Naadi 
jyotisha, Orbital Providence, Celestial Matrix, and Prashna Hora 
are research based works on Bhrighu Nandi Naadi and Kasyapa 
Hora. 

There are other good works under Naadi system. In order 
to organize these works with workable principles which will be 
helpful for those who wants to do further research in application 
of these Naadi principles, I have ventured into bringing out all 
of them in one volume. 

Satyacharya's Dhruva Naadi, Stellar Based astrological works 
by scholars like Late Sri. H.S. Seshadri Iyer, Sri. R.Gopalakrishna 
Row, Sri N V Raghava Charry, Late professor K S Krishnamurti's 
stellar astrology and of-course the Bhrighu Nandi Naadi principles 
are included in this work. 

Utmost importance is given to explain workable principles 
of different Naadi systems and their method of application. 
Therefore, this volume does not repeat the fundamentals 
explained. 

I am thankful to Sagar publications for being instrumental 
in bringing this work. 

We as a team dedicate this work to Late Sri R G Rao 
the legend living in the hearts of Naadi Astrological 
fraternity 

SATYANARAYANA NAIK 



Roots of Naadi Astrology 
Introduction 



There are various types of Naadi granthas. Chandra Kala 
Naadi, Dhruva Naadi, Bhrigu Naadi, Nandi Naadi, Saptarishi 
Naadi, Vidyamadhaveeyam, Kakabhujandar Naadi, Guru Naadi, 
Buddha Naadi, Surya Naadi, Kapila Naadi, Vashistha Naadi, 
Shukra Naadi, Saptarishi Naadi and Pushya Naadi. Some of them 
are in different libraries or with traditional families in south India 
and North India. 

These Naadi systems have five different methods of giving 
readings. One set of granthas relates reading based on 
horoscopes with divisional reference points as with Dhruva Naadi, 
Chandra kala Naadi. Another set of Naadi goes with the stellar 
division which has some basis in Vidya Madhavaveeyam. Yet 
another set of reading is based on signification of planets with 
or without relating to Dasha bhukti like Nandi Naadi and Bhrigu 
Naadi. One more set is called Mantra Naadi which has some 
occult interference in reading through the palm leaves. Very 
rarely I have come across a Naadi reader having this mantra 
Naadi. However, some Naadi palm leaves and old scripts are 
available in the south Indian and North Indian libraries. Most of 
them are in Sanskrit, Tamil, Telugu and Kannada languages. 
The 5 th one is Naadi reading based on thumb impression index 
and identifying the palm leaf having the whole life reading 
including the names of relatives. This has become famous across 
the world over two decades. Originally this was restricted in 
and around Chidambaram and some places in Tamil Naadu. 
Now we can find branched out readers across the word and in 
every city there are number of such Naadi centers. 



x Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

There are number of articles on this type of Naadi, many 
giving their experiences hosted on the internet. There are 
arguments for and against the thumb impression Naadi system. 
Foreigners who visited Chidambaram have recorded their 
experiences and opinions. Many Indian scholars like Dr. B.V. 
Raman, Sri C.G. Rajan Sri. Santanam, Sri. C.S.Patel and some 
scholars from Andhra and Karnataka have also experimented 
with this system and have documented their experiences. 

There are recorded instances about the experience of the 
legend Dr. B. V. Raman who encountered certain Mantra Naadi 
exponent having the Guru Naadi palm leaves. He exhibited an 
empty palm leaf witnessed by Dr. Raman. With closed eyes 
certain mantras were recited and when eyes were opened the 
empty leaf had written messages in Kannada, a south Indian 
language. Again mantras were recited with closed eyes and 
they turned into another south Indian language Tamil. It is learnt 
that this Naadi reader explained niceties of this system of Naadi. 
Dr. Raman had also experience of another Naadi called Agastyar 
Naadi by which the exponent used the thumb impression of Dr. 
Raman and predicted certain events which came true. It is learnt 
Dr. Raman's group has a copy of Dhruva Naadi. 

Naadi in Sanskrit means, any tube or pipe, son of nada, 
vein, any tubular organ of the body, Nerve, pulse, box of a 
wheel, tubular stalk or any plant or any tubular organ, artery, 
deception, sort of bent grass, any hole or crevice, flute, strap of 
leather, any pipe or tube, juggling trick, thong, 

Naadika means osmium sanctum, any tubular organ, hollow 
stalk, and another pot-herb, windpipe or throat, trachea. 

In Muhurtha, Naadika is half of Muhurtha that is 24 minutes. 
In Naadi astrology possibly the meaning of pulse, or the box of 
a wheel, that is out of 12 zodiac sign wheel, a sign is considered 
as a box, or the juggling trick, or a string, or cord ( that is 
thong), or 24 minutes of Muhurtha, might have been attributed 
to word Naadi. It also means the subtle channels in the body. 



Roots of Naadi Astrology Introduction x! 



In Tamil the word Naadi gives many expressions such as "Search" 
or search of existence, search of past. 

Recordings of human life predictions by Rishis Bhrigu, 
Angirasa, Atri, Viswamitra, Kashyapa, Vashistha and Agastya 
are known as Naadi, How they recorded the destinies of human 
race including those yet to born is a million dollar question yet 
to be answered. The personal experience of Dr. Raman about 
the changing contents in a palm leaf is an astonishing 
phenomenon for which no answer can be found within the frame 
work of science which has limited resources. Writings of rishis 
are not only confined to Astrology, but also include medical 
science, Yoga, Metaphysical life, and Occult science. Whether 
these subjects also have sirtiilar magical powers to situational 
changes with regard to content and languages? I have no 
evidential research findings on this aspect. 

Contents of Palm leaf if written by Rishis in Sanskrit, which 
is evident from the libraries having some of the original works 
on Naadi, then the Naadi which books are in Tamil, Telugu and 
Kannada or Hindi must have been translated at a later date. 

Even these translated versions are also in palm leaf that 
means they date back to an era when paper was not in use for 
writing. In 2 nd century BC China has the archeological record of 
fragments of paper making. That means these translations 
should have taken place before 2 nd century BC. The 
earliest epigraphic records found on rock edicts and hero 
stones date from around the 3rd century BCE. The Sangam 
literature dates back from the 300 BCE. Tamil language history 
has been classified into three categories attested by scholarly 
research. Old Tamil dates back between 300 BCE - 700 CE, 
Middle Tamil dates back between 700-1600 and Modern Tamil 
dates between 1600-to date. Since the language of Tamil used 
is very old it can be traced between 300 BCE - 700 CE and 
therefore these palm leaves must belong to this period when 
paper was not in use. 



xii_ Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Prior use of written language, the subject Naadi was taught 
orally to the disciples. Later on some of them have been 
transcribed .in to vernacular on palm leaves. That's how the 
"taala-patra granthas"came into existence. The wonder incident 
that Dr. Raman experienced where the blank palm leaf converted 
into contents and then changing in the choosen language 
languages endorses the miraculous powers of transcribers. Such 
occult powers which are flowing through the palm leaves till 
recent centuries cannot be ruled out based on our limited 
perception levels framed in modern scientific outlook. There 
are others who had wonderful experiences with regard to Naadi 
reading. One of the famous Astrologer and an advocate by 
profession vouchsafed similar experience with little variations. 
He was dumbstruck when the Naadi reader said in Tamil 
"Kumbha lagnathil kelvikaaran..."(The person born in Kumbha 
Lagna is waiting for reading). 

To record description and events of generations in coded 
language on Talapatra bundles there must be a secret key which 
is known only to these traditional Naadi readers. The original 
Sanskrit contents were transformed into many regional 
languages like Tamil, Kannada, Telugu, Malayalam and Hindi. 
Segregated regionally, the collection of talapatra granthas run 
in to thousands which are by legacy possessed by the Naadi 
readers. These Granthas include Agastya Naadi, Brighu Naadi, 
Brahma Naadi, Shiva Naadi, Kaushika Naadi, Kashyapa Naadi 
etc. 

Unfortunately some of these great works were lost due to 
destruction of the talapatra and some have been lost due to 
negligence of people who did not realize the importance of these 
granthas. During 10 th and 12 th century AD kings of Chola dynasty 
helped to preserve these granthas duly classified and kept in 
the library of Tanjore in Tamil "naadu. 

The rich knowledge data base of Indian heritage suffered 
destruction due to invasion of Mughals and British. Mughals 
ruthlessly burnt most of the materials and nonetheless English 
men transported many Naadi granthas to Britain. However they 



Roots of Naadi Astrology Introduction 



Xtli 



did not destroy it but sold most of them "to those connected 
with astrology. Some community hailing from Chidambaram has 
brought them. This Vallavar community settled down around 
Vaitheeshwaran Koil in Tamil Naadu which is now famous for 
Naadi readers- It is learnt that Lord Kartikeya is the key diety 
who is changed to protect these granthas. The planet Mars is 
attributed to Lord Kartikeya and this place is especially auspicious 
to ward of evils of planet Mars. 

The Map of Tamil Nadu is appended below marking 
Chidambaram. 



TAMI.LNAQU 




* 


,-*.-?,- N 


Tourist Desisrafcon 




'.'■-, ANf)HRAP«AD£Srt ^ -^ ^ - -..m ** 

• \ *, < t>d '■'-■.' ;■"■'". 








1 - 
t 










' - . . 1 




KARNATAKA 


' » A, - , 


*• w .♦/ * *>«*'**■ 




'. & • 


">$ .$■ ^■.,^:-:;;j^;,; 




* 


j .-> ^^ii*^*.::* 1 * /, .j*;,,**.^.. » *■-*, 






$* * jp'^-*. "\ j-r^^X^ ■■::■■;■ 




' ^ $0t*«^A>-5- 


^7 < a ' -J **** 






■>f ******* ^ 


-, r -'--'. =■. , 










V ?A*^3T»y>'r:i' 






t * 


• i •" J .i« r. ,v *;■ ,' 


i_* 


,' .: " > ^iv;S7^ 


•**)*» ♦'. '. ....^-.tfiOi**!'-:- -.«■;-■ 



The entire area is covered by many Naadi readers where in 
the Naadi granthas are under protection of Lord Shiva and 
Kartikeya. All of them follow a typicaf methodology of taking 
thumb impression, finding the index bundle then getting 
confirmation of events and later on gives general reading. These 
Naadi readers need not have any astrological background. Some 
of them even do not know how to draw a chart. They just know 
how to interpret the poetic coded language from the palm leaf. 
In the normal course if they get right bundle of leaves they can 
uninterruptedly read the past present future and also suggest 
remedies. If they encounter a palm of incomplete information 
or mismatch of events they stop reading. 



xiv Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

It is learnt that unless a person approach the reader with 
due respect to the knowledge and to the place of worship, the 
person will not get right readings or even find a relevant leaf. 
Mostly with faithless approach you are bound to land in front of 
a wrong interpreter. There is also myth about time of meeting 
the Naadi reader. If you approach a Naadi reader on a wrong 
Muhurtha you may get irrelevant readings or readings of 
displeasure. I have experiences of various persons who have 
gone there and returned with displeasure of having not found 
their leaf. Some were given wrong readings about future. But 
there are instances where every bit of life matched with that of 
reading. 

The first step in these Naadi methodologies is taking the 
thumb impression. For male the right hand thumb impression 
is taken and for female it is left hand. From 1008 types of thumb 
impression coded in Naadi granthas the impression of the 
consultant has to be segregated and matched with the batch of 
Naadi bundle related to the life readings. 

This establishes the fact that there is a relation between 
lines on the hand and the Naadi system of reading. In other 
words palmistry is also a part of Naadi reading. 

Once the right leaf is found then you will have different 
sections belonging to your life. They are called Kandams. This 
is more or less the regular reading of a horoscope based on 12 
houses. 

In Kandam one, many matters of general nature including 
the parental, spousal, siblings and progeny details are covered 
at times with their perfect names. It will have a general reading 
of all the houses with regard to past present and future. If 
requested specific reading of a Kandam will be read at an extra 
cost for each Kandam. 

The v 2 nd Kandam contains readings of second house of 
horoscope which generally covers the matters relating to Wealth, 
Family, and Education etc. 

The 3 rd Kandam reads about Siblings and Communications. 



Roots of Naadi Astrology Introduction xv 



4 th house matters like property, happiness and mother are 
covered in the 4 th Kandam. 

The 5 th Kandam covers the higher knowledge, Progeny and 
Its positive and negative aspects. 

Diseases, debts and enmity factors are covered in 6 th 
Kandam. 

Kandam seven reads about marital life and related matters 

Kandam 8 is about eighth house covering Dangers, 
difficulties and Longevity matters. 

Spiritual matters, fortune and endowment and father are 
covered in 9 th Kandam 

10 th house Karma, in material concept profession and 
business are covered in 10 th Kandam 

Second marriage, gains and loss factors are read through 
11 th Kandam 

Twelfth house matters like foreign journey, loss, 
emancipation and next birth are read through 12 th Kandam, 

Up to this the procedure is just like that of custom horoscope 
readings covering 12 houses. 

Normally a horoscope of the person is also given in writing 
in Tamil language marking Lagna and planetary positions. 
However this does not match always with that of horoscope 
erected by modern methodology as these Naadi horoscopes 
are based on Vakya panchangam where in the ayanamsha differs. 

The system described upto this level of horoscope based 
on the 12 houses, most of the reading given by the Naadi readers 
tally exactly when the Saturn in the horoscope is rotated in 
every sign and taking the planets posited in 2, 12 and 7 th houses 
and matching the significations of planets with regard to 
transiting Saturn. This system is from Nandi Naadi and Bhrigu 
Naadi decoded by an eminent Astrologer Late Sri R.G. Rao of 
Bangalore and is discussed in subsequent chapters. 



xvi Roots of Naadi Astrology; A Comprehensive Study 

Incidentally the scribe has a practical episode narrated by 
his friend Mr. R.Narasimha Murthy who visited Chidambaram. 

He met a Naadi reder from Agastya Naadi center at 
Vaideeswaran koil during 1977. He was asked to give his thumb 
impression. The reader searched for the relavent index bundle. 
After several attempts he could find bundle related to Narasimha 
Murthy, Many questions were asked and the bundles were 
disposed when not matched. In the last bundle the following 
question and answer session tookplace. 

Reader: Your father is a singer 

Narasimha Murthy: Yes 

Reader: Your father suffered family problems 

Narasimha Murthy: Yes 

Reader: Your's is case of dual marriage 

Narasimha Murthy: Yes 

Reader; Your father's name belongs to Vishnu and Lakshmi 
or it may relate to soorya 

Narasimha Murthy: Can you be more specific 

Reader: It may start with Female goddess Lakshmi or Rama 
devi 

Narasimha Murthy : Yes his first name is Rama 

Reader: Then the second part of the name may relate to 

Soorya 

Narasimha Murthy: Yes to a certain extent it may tally 
because the sencond part is Kantha 

Reader: That is.Ramakantha is the name of your father 
but he must have one more name attached to it which may 
relate to Vishnu or Narayana. 

Narasimha Murthy: Yes his name is Ramakanth 
Purandara. 



Roots of Naadi Astrology Introduction 



xvn 



Reader : Ok the leaf belongs to you. What to do you want 
me to read: sepcific kanda or general reading? 

Narasimha Murthy: General reading is enough for the 
time being. Can you give me my horoscope: 

Reader: Ok I will write and give you: Then I will give 
general discription of your life. 

The following is the horoscope given by the Naadi reader in 
Tamil. Astonishigly though no date of birth was asked, and none 
of the confirmation question relates to any clue towards date of 
birth the reader produced the horoscope which is given below: 



»Oft 


C«£J 






y\ 9 n<f & )6 


*&<*> 














9"@ 





He gave the following reading: 

Your father had to go in for a second marriage and this has 
the effect on your marital life also. Your first wife is not surviving 
at this time of consultation and she has left two children for 
you. Prior to your second marriage the bride had some 
relationship problems. You must have had some accident due 
to which you suffered injuries to head and foot which has resulted 
difference in your gait. You had troubled education and might 
have discontinued the education. Your professional life is also 
not settled till date. After 40 years of your age things start 
progressively beneficial and your profession will relate to 
accounting but you will not continue the same and you will 
settle down in some cinema or TV related firms and will have 



xviii Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



some technical experience. From 44 th year onwards you may 
settle down with good earnings and even you may have your 
own business with the help of your friends and relatives. Children 
born to your first wife will be away from you and suffer troubles. 
You may suffer due to your second marriage. The general reading 
of Naadi ends here as lord Murugan has stopped the reading 
and advised remedial measures: Do you want me to read the 
remedial palm leaf? 

Narasimha Murthy: No not at this juncture I shall visit 

again. 

Couple of years after this incident Narasimha Murthy met 
me and narrated the entire episode and he wanted some 
clarification regarding profession. Computer generated birth 
chart is given below. His date of birth is 18/11/1938 at 6 am at 
Hyderabad. 



SaR18 


Ke24 






\ Su 2 VeR 5 /\ Mo 14 / 
\ Me 22 / \ Ma 21 / 

\5/ Ra 24 \2^ 

Ju llX Ke 24 ;><3 
TlK / 2 V 

/ SaR18 \/ \ 


JuO 












Su2 
VeR 5 

Me 22 


Ra24 
As 26 


Mo 14 
Ma 21 



He then produced the horoscope given by the Naadi reader 
in an exercise book it was in Tamil as shown above. Since he 
has explained me about his experience as detailed above, I was 
astonished to see the correctness of the horoscope given by 
the Naadi reader and the one generated by me. The occult 
power hidden in Naadi granthas is fabulous. As a matter of fact 
I follow the Rao's system of Naadi astrology based on Bhrigu 
Naadi Naadi. I started to study his horoscope. Transit Saturn 
was about to come to Libra and I told him his career progress 



Roofs of Naadi Astrology Introduction xix- 

will commence shortly and you may even start your own, I also 
indicated the problems of first wife born children and also about 
the problems facing with his second wife. I suggested some 
remedial measures. Incidentally he told me that he had contacted 
Sri R.G. Rao in Bangalore and more or less the prediction read 
out by him also similar to what the Naadi reader as said and 
some of which the scribe predicted now. He told me that his 
horoscope matches with one of the horoscopes in Bhrighu Nandi 
Naadi in Kannada. The scribe took out the book and searched 
as this book contained horoscopes for period between 1889 
and 1980. I found on page 229 a horoscope numbered 180 
which exactly matched. The following is the reading and its 
comparison with facts. 

Bhrigu Nandi Naadi contents for this horoscope: 

The person is divine contemplative. He has the nature of 
helping others. His father is an intelligent person and a musician. 
But his father is deprived of family happiness. Moon if posited 
between Taurus and Virgo the father will have dual marital affairs 
but if Moon is in Virgo, the native will have dual marriage. Native 
will have two children a male and a female from his first wife 
and she will end her life after that. Native will go for second 
marriage. Unfortunately the second wife prior to marriage had 
an affair with a low class person who commits suicide after she 
gets married to this native. Due to aspect of Mars on Saturn 
having Ketu approaching and having link of Jupiter, the person 
will have different gait due to functional defect in the feet. 

(Fact: I cannot call him an atheist but he was normal just 
like others to perform a few minutes Pooja at home and visit 
temples once in a while. Helping nature was only a thought 
process in him and never was it practical. His father was a vocal 
singer but not a celebrity. There was not much unhappiness in 
his father's marital life nor did he have dual marriage. Native 
had to go in for second marriage. The second wife might have 
had some affair before marriage but there is no information 
about involvement of a low class person in her life and ending 
his life after her marriage.) 



xx Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

The children born to first wife will undergo difficulties and 
will not have harmonious relation with the second wife of native. 
However after 18 years of age they will see prosperity. From 
the second marriage the native will get one male child physically 
handicapped and will have miscarriage and then a female child 
having disease relating to Vayu. 

(The fact: As said the children of first wife did not have 
harmonious relationship with the second wife of the native. 
However he had one child from the second wife and one 
miscarriage. The male child born is healthy. The children born 
to first wife progressively settled in their education and 
professional career). 

Mercury signifying education is with Sun and Venus is also 
under the sway of Saturn and Ketu which indicates break in 
education. But there is an exchange of Jupiter by which Jupiter 
will help Mercury to get knowledge in shadow related technical 
learning. This is due to the fact that Jupiter from his original 
position links to Rahu and then when get exchanged he gets 
the link of Moo, Mars, Venus Sun and Mercury. 

Professionally he had to suffer a lot and struggle for a square 
meal this is due to effect of Mars Moon and Ketu on Saturn. Up 
to the age of 44-45 he will not settle down in any profession. 
He may do odd jobs relating to accounts and shifts many jobs 
of similar nature. At the age of 44 he will get into a job relating 
to light and shadow. Later he will also own a business relating 
to that which will also have some technical nature. He will involve 
his brother in the business and take help from others for this 
business. Up till 60 years there will be prosperity. 

(Facts regarding education and profession: His School 
education suffered and he was a dropout. Luckily he had an 
opportunity of doing a diploma course in accounting from Pune 
for which minimum education was only 8 th or 9 th standared. 
This diploma is recognized by other Universities as equal to 
their Intermediate education. After this he started working in 
private firms as accounting clerk. He could not stick to one 
organization and moved to different places doing the same job. 



Roots of Naadi Astrology Introduction xxi 



He went to Pune and started working in an organization having 
night shifts. During that period he went to film institute in Pune 
and got an admission for film photography course. He was 28 
years of age when he did that course. After that he left the job 
in Pune and came back to Hyderabad. He tried his level best to 
become a cameraman but all his trials failed. He was doing 
some part time job in some company to earn his bread. He 
struggled for many years to meet the two ends. He lost his wife 
during that period leaving two children. It was difficult for him 
to concentrate on professional life due to taking care of his 
children. He decided to go for a second marriage. He found a 
desperate family to settle a match for their daughter. He married 
her. She was adamant and self-centered and due to this the 
two children could not get the right care. The purpose of second 
marriage at one side of it failed. He lodged them in a hostel. 10 
years from this time was a hell for him as his earnings were 
meager and he was doing odd jobs in firms and he was also 
doing some commission jobs for photographic studios for 
arranging different functions to them. Somehow he made some 
money and changed the idea of becoming a photographer. He 
accumulated some money and bought a film Camera equipment. 
He started lending it on rental basis. His earnings increased 
and he further invested on equipment and accessories. His 
professional life got settled.) 

His second wife will physically handle him by hitting on his 
head and the native will go unconscious. He will not have 
happiness from the second marriage. 

(The fact: No doubt the lady is self-centered and 
concentrated only on her son and herself. She was short 
tempered and quarrel some in many aspects and eccentric. 
This normally would take place when this man gets drunk and 
wastes money on entertaining his friends with parties. However 
never ever she raised her hand on him; instead it was reverse 
case. In drunken mood several time he slapped her) 

From 45 th year till 60 th year he will see fortune and enjoy 
life. This commences when Saturn transiting in Libra. 



xxii Roots of Naadi Astrology; A Comprehensive Study 



(Fact: from 1984 he was doing well in his business in leasing 
out Cinema equipment. He enjoyed the life very well. His 
business went on well and made money upto 2002.) 

In 2004 he breathed his last due to diabetic effect 
on heart and brain. 

There are many matters which exactly tally with the reading 
of Naadi when the same were compared and read with the 
rules of BhriguNandi Naadi of Sri. R.G. Rao. Some of my friends 
who visited thumb Naadi reader and got their horoscopes were 
studied by applying the R.G.Rao principles. Sri R.G.Rao has 
done extensive research on the delineations of horoscopes from 
Bhrigu and Nandi Naadi. In these works only the results were 
given for each horoscope and the reasons were scarcely given. 
Sri R.G. Rao with his efforts zeroed in the key factor behind 
these results. He found out that the entire predictions were 
based on the Karakatwa of Planets and their combination in the 
chart. In his book "Bhrigu Nandi Naadi" he has applied his 
principles of combination of planets and given 500 horoscopes. 
His system was totally deviating from the traditional house 
system hence this book was not received well in the beginning. 
In his later works he clarified the principles elaborately. However, 
still his system was not acceptable in the traditional circle. My 
research on his works and I consolidated the method of Sri. 
R.G. Rao and came out with a structured approach in my book 
"Prediction secrets Naadi astrology" and further modified in the 
next work "Revelation from Naadi Jyotisha", Orbital providence, 
Celestial Matrix and Prashna Hora. Having seen the accuracy 
percentage of this system many astrologers shifted to R.G. Rao's 
system. There are many who even wrote articles and books on 
Naadi claiming their individual credits or inherited credits. 
However the credit of inventing the methodology of analysis 
definitely goes to Late Sri R.G. Rao. 

Based on my experience with these principles, some of the 
horoscopes belonging to my friends who have had the experience 
from thumb Naadi and got their horoscopes written in a book 
were put to experiment. 



Roots of Naadi Astrology Introduction xxii! 



In the thumb Naadi most of the past events tallied and as 
far as future predictions some have tallied and some failed 
miserably. When these horoscopes were studied with the Rao's 
method, 90% of future results came true. I found the reason 
for failure in thumb Naadi readings where in the results were 
mostly based on Saturn rotation and therefore most of the past 
results exactly tallied. They used Saturn for future results and 
presumably missed the rotation of Jupiter, Rahu and Ketu in 
transit rotation. But when I rotated Jupiter, Rahu and Ketu along 
with Saturn, results relating to Marriage, Health, Profession, 
Progeny and many more exactly matched and I got the 
confirmation for future readings also. 

With more charts coming to me I have zeroed is on the 
methodology used by Palm leaf contents which the Naadi reader 
spells out and it is mostly based on Saturn rotation. This may 
be one factor of the truth. However it worked on many charts 
brought by friends who visited Naadi centers. Logic here is Saturn 
is karma karaka who gives the results of past karma. Therefore, 
it is but natural that the past predictions tally. It is the Jupiter, 
the present living factor, who when encounters Karma becomes 
future karma. Similarly every planet has to be moved as different 
segments of life to understand the effects of future with regard 
to their signification. In the "Brighu Nandi Naadi" section I will 
deal in detail about the principles and the methodology of Late 
Sri R.G. Rao. 

The whole wonder is these 12 Kandams which closely relates . 
to 12 houses counted from Lagna seems to have no signification 
as none of the readings, the Dasha bhukti factors are considered. 
Only the age factor is mentioned. What I construed then is that 
these 12 Kandams are relatively structured based on the 
signification of planets. For example to know about health and 
personality matters, the Jupiter and Sun links are taken into 
consideration, for 2 nd house and 7 th house matter the Venus or 
Mars is considered for 3 rd house matters Mars and Mercury are 
considered. For 4 th house Moon, Ven, Mar, for 5 th house, Sun 
and Venus are considered, for 6 th & 8 th house matters, Mars, 



xxiv Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Moon, Rahu and Ketu are considered. For 9 th house Sun, Venus 
are considered , 10 th house linked to Saturn, 11 th house linked 
to Ven, Jup, Mer and 12 th house Ketu, Saturn and Jupiter are 
taken into consideration. 

In several cases such experiments yielded satisfactory results 
yet we cannot confirm this is the only key adopted in Naadi 
readings. Once again the occult powers referred in earlier 
paragraphs restrict our experimental curiosity. There are cases 
of astonishing predictions from Naadi palm leaves which cannot 
be attributed to any system of horoscope analysis. Definitely 
there must be some wavelength which is prevalent in heritage 
of Naadi community. 

There other Kandams in this Naadi system. 

Shanti Kandam: This is similar to past life regression; where 
in the sins committed in past has to be relieved by performing 
certain rituals. Rightly accepted in literal sense but greed grown 
giant will interpret differently and corrupt the originals for 
personal gains. Cautiously getting read this Kandam and not 
yielding to titanic demands, they can be consulted elsewhere 
for proper remedies. Usually Navagraha and their adhi devata 
and pratyadhi devata propitiations with proper Dana prakriya 
will suffice to clear many maladies. 

Deeksha Kandam: In this Kandam initiation of a secret 
knowledge will be given which will help to use right mantras for 
protection and prosperity. This Kanda cannot be independently 
read and performed. This has pre-condition that the Shanti 
Kandam rituals must be completed. This is the crux of the 
intention of materialistic gains for Naadi community. Because I 
have personally seen umpteen cases at Chidambaram where 
the chief Naadi reader demands golden idols with a specific 
weight, golden bangles, or golden coins etched with certain 
Yantra etc. In some cases they demand groceries, worth 
thousands of rupees. Some of them even read out in the palm 
leaf a certain amount to be paid to the Naadi reader as parihara. 



Roots of Naadi Astrology Introduction xxv 



Aushadha Kandam: This refers to healing diseases with 
herbs. 

I have no idea about how this is read and its efficacy and 
have no comments. 

Next is Dasha Bhukti Kandam. It is difficult to understand 
what type of Dasha they use and what they delineate because 
if a person makes them to read all twelve Kandams he will have 
covered all the matters of life as the events are time based age 
factor. 

Since I have not come across any experienced person on 
this issue I reserve my comment. 

Much has been written about the Naadi systems with varied 
opinions and arguments for and against, Yet this peculiar 
methodology is a traditional secret. Centuries down the lane 
eminent personalities of astrological fraternity have been 
discussing Naadi astrology. Though I have reservations in 
discussing this methodology of Naadi Astrology, I have tried my 
level best to give some clues regarding this methodology with 
due respect to my friends who shared their experiences with 
me and my own experiences during research stay over a period 
of 5 months at Chidambaram. 

When I was asked to write about Naadi in detail reluctantly 
I accepted because, unfortunately there are no sufficient material 
to support a particular methodology which I can share with 
regard to great works like Dhruva Naadi (not of Satyacharya), 
Saptarishi Naadi or for that matter any of the above Naadi 
granthas in their original formats. Translated versions Satya 
Jaataka (Dhruva naadi) of sage Satyacharya, Chandra Kala Naadi 
some portions from Saptarishi Naadi and Bhrighu Naadi of Sri R 
G. Rao of Bangalore, are with me in both English Kannada 
versions. Modern works from scholarly authors like Sri H R 
Seshadri Iyer, Sri R Gopala Krishna Row, Sri N V Raghava Chary 
and Sri K S KrishnaMurthy, deals with stellar system which is 
the base for Naadi systems. 



xxvi Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

From the first set of classical works I have tried to pick up 
the main theme and explain the principles in more lucid manner 
especially with Dhruva Naadi. From Chandrakala Naadi I have 
picked up general principles applicable in traditional astrology. 
Saptarishi Naadi has only predictions and does not have any 
adoptable principles. Sri J. N, Bhasin's book under the same 
title contains a few horoscopes for six ascendants with principles 
derived from his and adopted to support the delineations. Either 
I have to reproduce a few from his book with his point of view 
of prediction or include a few horoscopes from the version which 
I am having with my personal hypothetical formule to support 
the predictions. In both the cases it will not be of any help to 
reader. I prefer to skip this. 

From the second set of modern scholarly works, I restricted 
myself to pick up the main principles and explain them with 
examples at right places. In many sections I have also introduced 
my research materials. I have presented the gist of these works 
in a structured method establishing there applicability and also 
offered my opinion on several points. In this section the work is 
classified into two groups as follows: 

CLASSICAL NAADI SYSTEMS 

a) Principles of Dhruva Naadi 

b) Selected rules from Chandra Kala Naadi 

c) Principles and application of Bhrigu Nandi Naadi 
STELLAR BASED NAADI 

a) Stellar Based Naadi System - Iyer's Method-1 

b) Stellar Based Naadi System - Meena's Method-2 

c) Stellar Based Naadi System - Krishnmurthy's Method-3 

Bowing my head to Rishis, I offer this this work as a tribute 
to all those legends who gave such wonderful works for the 
astrological fraternity. 

SATYANARAYANA NAIK 



What You Read 



In the introduction of Roots of Naadi Astrology, essence of 
Palm leaf naadi systems are discussed with authenticated 
experiences of great personalities like Sri B.V. Raman besides 
an interesting case study of the friend of the scribe. This contains 
the details of 12 kandams and the methodology of Naadi readers 
situated across the world. At the end the subject selection and 
organisation of this book is given. Now summrising each method, 
I wish to give a summary of what you gain: 

By the Prninciple of Dhruva Naadi: 
A. Determination of fortune: 

a. The Lord of Lagna (Lagnadhipathi) 

b. Navamsa sign lord where Lagna falls in Navamsa 

c. Star lord of the birth Star of Moon or Ascendant 
whichever is stronger (Janma nakshatridhipati) (Same 
lord can also appear as sign lord) 

d. Dispositor of the above (sign lord where these lords 
are posited in Rashi chart) Compute strength of the 
above planets according to Shadbala. The computation 
of d, is the extended strength or weakness of 
Dispositor who will decide the ultimate strength of 
the Planets in a, b, c. If the Dispositor gets minimum 
strength, then the planet gets supported. If the 
Dispositor becomes weak, the planet gets weak. 

e. If all the 3 planets gets more than stipulated shadbala 
and their Dispositor also gets minimum required 
shadbala, then the Native will have excellent fortune. 



xxviii Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

f. If any 2 planets and their Dispositor gain full strength 
as above the native will be in a good status and position 

g. If only one planet along with Dispositor gain strength 
the native will be have average position 

h. If all 3 of them along with their Dispositor are weak 
the native will have poor yoga (difficulties in life) 

B. Pancha Siddhantika 

1. Grahasheela 

2. Karaka 

3. Nakshatra 

4. Vargottama 

5. Adhipatya 

In grahasheela you get detailed account of planetry 
significations especially their natural signfications which is the 
basis for any system of analysis. 

Karaka Siddhanta explains the significations of planets that 
are empowered to give during their Dasha periods based on 
their strengths. 

Nakshatra Siddhanta is the most important deviation you 
find and needs logical application particularly in Dasha system 
and Bhava analysis. 

Vargottama Siddhanta is again a planetary strength matter 
and Adhipatya siddanta is about the capabilities of lords of 
houses. 

By the Prninciple of Chandra Kala Naadi 

Selected rules which are universally applicable to traditional 
method of astrology are given. 



Wha t You Read xxix 

By the Principle of Bhrighu Nandr Naadi 

You will understand the diffrence between the traditional 
astrology and the prediction secrets hidden in Bhrighu Nandi 
Naadi in which only Sign and Planetary signfictions are used for 
studying the chart. This is a powerful method of prediction. It 
has simple rules but needs lots of practice to devleop the logic 
to study the horoscope in detail. If a person is a saadhaka 
(especially of Navagrahas) then this system works wonders for 
him. 

Unfortunately this system founded by late Sri R.G. Rao was 
pushed aside for quite long period by the so called stalwarts of 
tradtional astrology as it does not consider Lagna for prediciton. 
Even now many of them do not accept it as a system of prediciton 
though they use this system internallly for their commerical use 
and externally claim the credit thorugh traditional method. Some 
of them claim that they have better Naadi seecrets and consider 
Late R.G.Rao's system as just one drop out of the ocean of 
knowledge they have which neither they teach to others nor 
publish it as workable systems. 

No matter what others claim, there are umpteen number 
of disciples of Sri R.G. Rao, some of them are Ekalavyas but 
have mastered the subject and give excellent prediciton. 

The scribe conducts classes regularly on Naadi, traditon 
and KP systems and train students in live prediction methods. 

Stellar system: 

Tithi Vara and Yoga in predictive system: 

Late Sri H.S, Sheshadri Iyer introduced Vara, thiti and yoga 
in his systme with his intellgently woven system of yoga avayoga 
and the Dasha analysis. Yes, there are really good workable 
points that can be applied to in traditioal analysis and being a 
system which brings in deviation and divisional effects involging 
Nakshatra it is considered as Naadi system. 



xxx Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Meena system: 

This is a pure Nakshatra system where the point of focus is 
on that a planet gives the results of the Planet in whose nakshatra 
it is placed. One of the other interesting factor is about Jeeva 
and Sareera concepet basing it on Nakshtra. The authors have 
focused mainly on these two points. These two points can be 
taken up while traditionally analysing the horoscopes for better 
results. 

Krishnamurti Paddhati 

This system is well known across the world due to its 
sturctured approach. Like in every system this system has also 
certain unfocused issues, but largly it is claimed to be a successful 
predictive tool. The fact is it has used the exisiting calculation 
of Nakshatra dasha and bhukti of Parasara and super imposed 
its digital configurations in a blank chart renaming them as Star 
and Sub. The marvel of Professor Krishnamurti is bringing Naadi 
Karakatwa combination in these divisions of signs, star and sub. 
Amazingly these 249 subs through signs and its star denoting 
results of these plantary signficaitons is sufficient to predict 
answers to question when the person asking question indictes 
a number for his quesiton. However there is a system of Prashna 
Paddhati introduced seperately. Focused on the Sub and star 
using essentials from traditional astrology this system is 
appreciably an essential tool for prediciton. 

BE HAPPY, BE HEALTHY, BE STRONG AND MAKE OTHERS 
STORNG - SATYANARAYANA NAIK 



Classical Naadi System 

Dhruva Naadi based 
Satya Jaataka 

Section I 



In thumb Naadi though there is a mention of Dasha Bhukti 
in Palm leaf reading which comes at the end of Kandam, in 
general reading of any Kandam, the reader points out the events 
that happen at particular age. This is the clue that this system 
of analysis is not entirely based on Parasara methods. Even if it 
is construed that they are reading only Bhava Phala, the timing 
factor is not attached to Bhava Phala as per Parasara or by any 
allied works like Jaataka Chandrika, Phala Deepika etc. Again 
considering results declared at certain ages due to unique 
planetary combinations is independent of its nature and irrelevant 
to house matters. 

Therefore any other method deviating from the standard 
principles of Parasara, Jaimini & Tajika is considered as Naadi. 
This is the only best logic by which I can differentiate between 
Naadi and Traditional astrology. Dhruva Naadi or Satya Jaataka 
has many such deviations and therefore it is called Naadi. This 
scholarly work has delightful astrological matrix that would give 
a splendorous experience to the reader. 

Birth epoch 

Sage prescribes three birth epochs to consider the planetary 
influences on the native. First is the time of conception, second 
the appearance of the head at the Vagina of the mother of 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



native, third is when the child falls out completely and touches 
ground. There is no way to record first two epochs especially in 
the modern conditions. The third one is normally considered 
for astrological recordings. 

To Decide the Birth star: 

Traditionally it is the practice to take the star in which Moon 
is located at the time of birth as birth star. Predictive part 
especially the Dasha readings in this work are based on the 
correct selection of birth star. Therefore, Sage suggests the 
following alternates to decide the correct birth star. 

The 27 Stars are grouped into 9 segments consisting of 3 
stars as a set governed by a planet 



Aswini-Makha-Moola 


Governed by KET 


Bharani-Pubba-P.Ashada 


Governed by VEN 


Krittika-Uttara-U.Ashada 


Governed by SUN 


Rohini-Hasta-Shravana 


Governed by MOO 


Mrigasira-Chitta-Dhanishta 


Governed by MAR 


Aridra-Swati-Satabisa 


Governed by RAH 


P-vasu-Visakha-P.Bhadra 


Governed byJUP 


PusyamhAnurada-U.Bhadra 


Governed by SAT 


Aslesha-Jyeshta-Revathi 


Governed by MER 



This is also the order of Dasha periods for the persons born 
on these Nakshatra which is called birth star. 

Keeping the Dasha order based on star in which Moon is 
present at the time of birth, selection of actual birth star is 
based on the strength of star assessed as follows: 

Judge the Shadbala of the following: 

A. Planet represented by the Star where the Moon is posited 
at the time of birth 

B. Planet represented by the Star where the Ascendant degrees 
fall in a sign. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 



The Star represented by the strongest planet out of Moon 
and Lagna planet will be treated as Birth star. 

Any subject will be clearer when illustrated with example. 
So I take an example horoscope and maintain it as standard 
horoscope throughout and add up information for practical 
application of principles of this system. 

Male born on 22-10-1976 at 5 PM at Hyderabad India 



As 


Ke ■ 


0u) 




(Ju) 2><^ As \^io 

/ \ / Ma X 

/ \/ RaSu \ 




MALE BORN ON 

22-10-1976 

17:00:00 Hrs 

Hyderabad 

India 


Sa 








Ve 


Ma 

Ra 
Su 


Me 

Mo 



Object 


Sign 


Degree 


Nakshatra 


Pada 


Navamsa 


Lagna 


Pisces 


21:52:00 


Revathi 


2 


Capri 


Sun 


Libra 


5:45:00 


Chitta 


4 


Scorpio 


Moo 


Virgo 


25:18:00 


Chitta 


1 


Leo 


Mar 


Libra 


15:51:00 


Swati 


3 


Aquarius 


Mer 


Virgo 


25:13:00 


Chitta 


1 


Leo 


Jup(r) 


Taurus 


6:01:00 


Krittika 


3 


Aquarius 


Ven 


Scorpio 


8:42:00 


Anurada 


2 


Virgo 


Sat 


Cancer 


22:14:00 


Aslesha 


2 


Capricorn 


Rah 


Libra 


10:05:00 


Swati 


2 


Capricorn 


Ket 


Aries 


10:05:00 


Aswini 


4 


Cancer 



4 


Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 




Shadbala Rupa 


Planet 


Bala 


Required 


Attained 


Sun 


320.83 


5 


5.35 


Moo 


519.72 


6 


8.66 


Mar 


336.55 


5 


5.61 


Mer 


468.19 


7 


7.80 


Jup 


387.21 


6.5 


6.45 


Ven 


332.04 


5.5 


5.53 


Sat 


483.32 


.5 


8.06 



Moon is in the Star of Chitta whose lord is Mars and in 
Shadbala Mars gets 5.61 Rupa, 

Lagna falls in Revathi Nakshatra whose lord is Mercury and 
he gets Shadbala of 7.80 Rupa 

The Lagna felling in Revathi star is stronger than the Moon 
star Chitta. The birth star of this native is Mercury. 

Please remember for Dasha calculation only Moon star is 
taken into consideration. For the assessment of horoscope the 
Lagna star Revathi is the birth star and its Lord Mercury is birth 
star lord. 

Alternatively some suggest the birth star to be considered 
based on the shadbala strengths of the following lords 

C. Lord of Moon Sign 

D. Lord of Ascendant 

According to above horoscope the Lord of the sign where 
Moon is posited is Mercury gaining shadbala of 7.80 Rupa 

Lord of the Ascendant Jupiter gains only 6.45 Rupa. 

Therefore birth star should be taken as Chitta where the 
Moon is posited. 

This method is not convincing as the Sage has targeted 
star as specific Siddhanta. Obviously the correct method is to 
consider star position prescribed in the first formula. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 5 

PS. It is inspiring to deduce logic for tarabala in muhurtha. 
Normally the tarabala is matched for an auspicious work by 
taking the birth star reckoned from Moon. My logic is Birth star 
of Moon is subconscious instinct of the person and deals with 
constitution and personal matters of the person. Therefore, it is 
quite right to consider the Moon birth star for all personal and 
emotional matters like, health, healing, initiating, beginning of 
basic learning, occult rituals etc., But for material matters like 
money, luxuries etc., Star of Ascendant cusp is to be considered. 
However it is very much essential to consider the star of Dasha 
Lord who is actually the ruling planet for a particular period. 
This is the theory of cosmic vibration, 

Determination of fortune: 

a. The Lord of Lagna (Lagnadhipathi) 

b. Navamsa sign lord where Lagna falls in Navamsa 

c. Star lord of the birth Star of Moon or Ascendant whichever 
is stronger (Janma nakshatridhipati) 

(Same lord can also appear as sign lord) 

d. Dispositer of the above (sign lord where these lord are 
posited in Rasi chart) 

Compute strength of the above planets according to 
shadbala 

The computation of d, is the extended strength or weakness 
of dispositor who will decide the ultimate strength of the 
planets in a, b, c. If the dispositor gets minimum strength 
then the planet gets supported. If the dispositor becomes 
weak, the planet gets weak. 

e. If all the 3 planets gets more than stipulated shadbala and 
their dispositor also gets minimum required shadbala, then 
the Native will have excellent fortune. 

f. If any 2 planets and their dispositor gain full strength as 
above the native will be in a Good status and position 



6 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

g. If only one planet along with dispositor gain strength the 
native will be have average position 

h. If all 3 of them along with their dispositor are weak the 
native will have poor yoga (difficulties in life) 

(Note: The basic strength of a, b, c is of prime importance, if it is less 
than prescribed shadbala, even if the dispositor gains more shadbala 
there is of no value. On the contrary if the prime planet gets shadbala 
and the dispositor lesser one then it should be compared with other 
two. The best way is to total up the strength of both planet and its 
dispositor and then divide by 2 and derive net shadbala which will be 
easier for comparison.) 

Example horoscope: Fortune of the native: 

1. The Lord of Lagna - Jupiter (Rupa 6.45) Weak 

la. Jupiter is in the sign Taurus - Venus is dispositor (Rupa- 
5.53) ok 

Average shadbala for Jupiter = 5.99 it is less than the 
prescribed. 

2. Navamsa sign lord where Lagna falls in Navamsa in the 
sign of- Saturn that is Cpricorn, (Rupa-8.06) strong. 

2a. Saturn is in the sign Cancer - Moon is dispositor (Rupa - 
8.&6) strong. 

Average shadbala for Saturn = 8.36 which is higher than 
required minimum. Therefore it is strong. 

3. Birth star lord (as above in example) - Mercury (Rupa- 
7.80) strong. 

3a. Mercury is in Virgo- Mercury is dispositor (7.80) strong 

Both being Mercury it is 7.8 which is higher than minimum. 

Out of 3 planets two of them are strong therefore the fortune 
of the native is good. 

This is the first hand analysis in a horoscope which gives a 
bird's eye view of the status of native. This is an indication to 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 



astrologer to selectively focus on issues of life of native and 
study the related Bhavas and time factors based on Dasha. 

(Note: Taking reference of Phaladeepika this rule can be 
extended to all bhavas and status if related matters can be 
assessed) 



Significations of 12 Bhavas 



1 st Bhava 


2 nd Bhava 


3 rd Bhava 


Ability 


Begging 


Brothers 


Balarishta 


Death 


Courage 


Body 


Eyes 


Death to father 


Caste 


Family 


Dress 


Colour 


Finance 


Fear 


Foreign stay 


Food 


Fruits 


Happiness & Unhappiness 


Nose 


Stability 


Residence 


Speech 


Strength 


Self-actions 


Timidity 


Voice 




Tongue 






Wealth 




4 th Bhava 


5 th Bhava 


6 th Bhava 


Chest 


Charity 


Armies 


Buildings 


Children 


Diseases 


Cattle 


Deeds of Merit 


Enemy troubles 


Comforts 


Duty 


Injuries 


Conveyance 


Intelligence 


Legalities 


Education 


Respect to Parents 


Litigation 


Friends 


Royal 


Maternal uncles 


House 


Success in ventures 


Mental worry 


Lands 




Sorrow 


Mother 




Worries 


Relatives 







8 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 





7 th Bhava 


8 th Bhava 


9 th Bhava 


Change of residence 


Death 


Charities 


Death 


Debts 


Deeds of Merits 


Foreign Journey 


Difficulties 


Father 


Marriage 


enmity 


Fortune 


Spouse 


Grief 


Past merits 


Travel 


Impediments 


Preceptor 




Longevity 


Righteousness 




Misfortune 






Past sins 






Sins 






Unhappiness 






10 th Bhava 


11 th Bhava 


12 th Bhava 


Authority 


Commercial gains 


Charities 


Commerce 


Elder Brother 


Donation 


Dress 


Fulfillment 


Expenditure 


Fame 


Gains 


Hostility 


Honour 


Ornaments 


Loss 


Inherited profession 


Profits 


Misery 


Occupation 


Wealth acquisition 


Poverty 


Pilgrimage 




Salvation 


Profession 






Status 






Trade 







The matters of houses given above are limited and with a 
few more additions I give below the modified versions which 
may be useful to reader. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 



1st House 


2nd House 


3rd House 


Basic 


Self 


Basic 


Expression 


Basic 


Ability 


Dignity 


Acquisition 


Agreement 


Self 


Death 


Communication 


All ambitions 


Documents 


Courage-Ability 


Beginning 


Earnings 


House change 


Character 


Express 


Longevity 


Fame 


Speech 


Sale of Property 


Health 


Food 


Self Agreement 


Longevity 


Observe 


Short-Travel 


Vigour 


Wealth 


Writing/Publishing 


Dignity 


Banking Activity 


Interviews 


Head, Heart 


Face, Eyes 


Neck-Shoulder 


Personality 


Family 


Younger Siblings 



4th House 


5th House 


6th House 


Basic 


Comfort/Learn 


Basic 


Wisdom 


Basic 


Hard-work 


Emotion 


Pleasure 


Fault-Rift 


Basic Education 


Speculation 


Enemies 


Conveyance 


Disease Cure 


Job & Service 


Happiness 


Divinity / Deities 


Obstacles 


Home place 


Love 


De-Link-partner 


Lands 


Oppose to Work 


Debt-Loans 


Masses 


Pleasure Pursuit 


Diseases 


Private Life 


Politics / Royal 


Litigations 


Properties 


Sports 


Win over 


Peace 


Wisdom 


Struggle Fear 


Chest, Lungs 


Heart, U. Belly 


Stomach 


Mother 


Children 


Mtrnl. Uncles 



10 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



7th 


8th House 


9th House 


Basic 


Association 


Basic 


Illicit 


Basic 


Merits 


Target 


Distress 


Religious 


Death 


Longevity 


Past Merits 


Business 


Unearned Wealth 


Higher Education 


Partners 


Legacy 


Foreign Travel 


Marital - Life 


Violent/Hidden 


Pilgrimage 


Opposite Person 


Difficulty - Scandal 


Legal Matters 


Foreign Relation 


Defame - Blame 


Spiritual 


Legal Matters 


Quarrel - Accident 


Others Agreement 


Journey Break 


Insurance - Will 


Occult - Intuition 


Foreign Contact 


Sick Chronic 


2nd - Relation Wife 


Waist - L Belly 


Private Parts 


Thighs 


Spouse 


Spouse Wealth 


Father 



10th House 


11th House 


12th House 


Basic 


Action 


Basic 


Hope 


Basic 


De-Link 


Status 


Achievement 


Reallocate 


Profession 


Fulfillments 


Disappointment 


Promotions 


Hopes 


Displacement 


Name, Fame 


Profits 


Asylum - Jail 


Rewards 


Gains 


Death 


Nature of Work 


Success 


De-Link 


Work Condition 


Political 


Foreign Travel 


Progress 


Friends 


Expenses - Loss 


Fathers Earning 


Satisfaction 


Bed Comfort 


Career 


Income 


Sin - Bondage 


Knees 


Calf Muscles 


Feet 


Mother in Law 


Elder Brother 


Salvation 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 1 1 

Section II 

The grand Pancha Siddantika of Satyacharya is discussed 
below: 

Pancha Siddantika 

1. Grahasheela 

2. Karaka 

3. Nakshatra 

4. Vargottama 

5. Adhipatya 

1. Grahasheela Siddantika 

This section deals with the planetary significations. The 
qualitative effects of these planets will be positive if they are 
strong by virtue of lordship and placements in accordance with 
the rules prescribed by the Sage. Negative effects of these 
planets will be experienced if they are weak. These effects are 
to be predicted during their Dasha periods. 

(Note: This is the fundamental principle in Parasara, the natural 
signification of planets to fructify during the Dasha of the planet. 
Favorable and Unfavorable results are attributed to strength and 
weakness of planets computed on Shadbala formula) 

SUN 

Description 

Dark Red little hair on head, strong bones, honey coloured 
eyes, upward looks, short in stature, 8 yojana 

Humor quality 

Hot, fury, bile-Pitta 



12 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Nature 

Satwa Guna 
No. of Rays 

Five rays 
Cereal 

Wheat 
Strength 

Strong Day time/noon 
Gem 

Ruby 
Caste 

Kshatriya 
Age 

30 years of age 
Direction 

Eastern direction 

Significations 

Represents King, Intellectuals, Gold, Copper, Brass, Jewels, 
Fruit Bearing Trees, Vegetative Animals, Thatched House, Girls 
of Eight Years, Brinjal, Beans and Pungent Herbs, Thick Clothes 

MOON 

Description 

White, Round Shape, Huge Body, One Yojana, Beautiful 
Eyes, Friendly Nature, Travel Oriented, Female Planet and Cold 
in Nature 

Humor quality 

Mild and Meek, Kapha/Vata soft in speech 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naedi based - Satya Jaataka 13 

Nature 

Satwa Guna 
No. of Rays 

Twenty one 
Cereal 

Rice 
Strength 

Suklapaksha Night 
Gem 

Pearl 
Caste 

Vaisya 
Age 

70 years of age 
Direction 

North West Direction 

Significations 

Watery Nature, Poets, Strong Houses, Feminine Nature, 
Milk Oozing Trees, Rope, Chain, Silver, Sweets, Silk Cloth, Lilies, 
Salt, Cucumber, Plantain, Bronze, Brass, Rice, Ornaments of 
Youngsters 

MARS 

Description 

Lean Waist, Built Muscles, Square Head, Fiery Upward Looks 
Seven Yojana 

Humor quality 

Pitta nature Cruel, Ferocious, Rash, Warm body 



14 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Nature 

Rajoguna 
No. of Rays 

Five rays 
Cereal 

Red grains 
Strength 

Dark Lunar night 
Gem 

Corat 
Caste 

Kshatriya 
Age 

Four years of age 
Direction 

Southern direction 

Significations 

Sharp instruments, Bitter Taste, Wild Animals, Bricks, Fire, 
Thorny Trees, Roaming in Forests, Thieves, Mosquitoes, Bronze, 
Sin, Youth 

MERCURY 

Description 

Green in Colour, Lean, Talkative, Fun Loving, Long Reddish 
Eyes, 8 Yojana, Dual Nature 

Humor quality 

Intelligent, Learned, Mixed humor, Vata, Pitta, Kapha 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 15 

Nature 

Rajasic 
No. of Rays 

Six rays 
Cereal 

Green-gram 
Strength 

Both Night & Day Strong 
Gem 

Emerald 
Caste 

Vaisya 
Age 

Teen age 
Direction 

North direction 

Significations 

Bangles, Blue Lilies, Betel leaves, Seed fruits, Centipedes, 
Bitter fruits, Village administration 

JUPITER 

Description 

Huge or fatty body, Yellowish, noble nature, Brownish eyes, 
Elliptical shape 

Humor quality 

Kapha-Noble and generous, Clear speech, Intelligent 



16 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Nature 

Satwa Guna 
No. of Rays 

Seven rays 
Cereal 

Bengal gram 
Strength 

Strong in day time 
Gem 

Yellow sapphire 
Caste 

Brahmin 
Age 

30 years of age 
Direction 

North East 

Significations 

Vedas, Religion, Fine Flowers, Betel Nut, Sweet fruits, 
Sugarcane, Interior wood decoration, Coconut trees 

VENUS 

Description 

Handsome/pretty, proportioned limbs, Curly dark hairs, 
Lovely eyes, Soft speech 

Humor quality 

Personable, Feminine in nature Vata kapha 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 1 7 

Nature 

Rajasic 
No. of Rays 

Eight Rays 
Cereal 

Lima beans 
Strength 

Strong Bright half night 
Gem 

Diamond 
Caste 

Brahmin 
Age 

16 years of age 
Direction 

South East 

Significations 

White colour, Vitality, Jasmine, Artistic houses, Trees of 
watery places, Place of Enjoyments, Honey bees, and Sour fruits 

SATURN 

Description 

Dark Colour, deep eyes, Lean nerve body, downward looks, 
8-Yojana 

Humor quality 

Vata, Cruel, Pitiless, Idle and Slow 



18 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Nature 

Tamasic 
No. of Rays 

Five Rays 
Cereal 

Sesame/Til! 
Strength 

Night strong 
Gem 

Blue Sapphire 
Caste 

Shudra 
Age 

Old age 
Direction 

West 

Significations 

Bangles, Blue Lilies, Betel leaves, Seed fruits, Centipedes, 
Bitter fruits, Village administration 

RAHU 

Black, Tall, Skin, Abusing language, Talking ill of others, 
South-West, Paternal grand-father, Serpents, Poison, Twenty 
yojana, Psychic problems, Imprisonment, Foreign, Unethical, 
Fraud, Talkative, Low level occupations, Low castes, Gomed, 
Black grain, 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 19 



KETU 

Demonic looks, fiery talks, Venomous, Wounded limbs, 
Cruel: Salvation, Religious, Maternal Grand-father, Skin diseases, 
Suicide, Murder, Unhappiness, Grief, Fire accidents, Small jobs, 
Horse gram, Cat's eye 

The above information is useful in determining the details 
of many events. These will get modified by association aspect 
and strength of the plants. The strength of the planets is to be 
assessed based on shadbala. 

The friendship and enmity relationship as per Satyacharya 
is given below which is based on his simple principle that from 
its Moolatrikona sign planets posited in 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, 12 and the 
Lord of his exaltation sign are friends to "ft and rest are not. This 
is evident from the ensuing sloka. There is no reference of Neutral 
planets in this sloka. Subsequently there is an explanation of 
Planetary avastha in which the neutral effect of planets is 
considered based on Ati Mitra (close friend), Mitra (friend), and 
Sama (Neutral), Shatru (Enemy) relationships. In the normal 
course of Bhava analysis only friendship and enmity are taken 
into account. The same is illustrated below: 




9. Ma 




Sun 

Friends 
Mer Mar 
J up Mon 

Enemies 
Ven, Sat 



4. Ma 




11. Me 



12. Mo 



O 

M. 
Trikone 



2. Me 




20 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Ju 


12. Ma 


M. 
Trikone 


2, Me 


Sa 


Mon 

Friends 
All Planets 

Enemies 

NIL 

(due exaltation lord 

is Ven also friend) 


Mo 


9. Sa 


4. Su 


8. Ju 


Ma 


Ve 


5. Me 



\ 2. Me 




12. 'Ma / 


Mo <*X 


3 

M. 
Trikone 

\2jS 


/v 2 Ju 


/ 4. Su 


Vx 11 

/8\ 


Sa \ 


S. Me6X 
/ 7 x 


Ma 


>^0 9. Sa 
/ 9 x 


/ Ve 




8. Ju \ 



12. Ju 


J 1 

M. 

Trikone 


2. Ve 


X 




Mar 

Friends 

Ven Mon Sun 

3 up Sat 

Enemies 
Mer 


4. Mo 


Ex of Ma 

Lord Sa 


5. Su 


9. Ju 


8. Ma 


Ve 


6>^e 



\ 2. Ve 




12. Ju / 


\/\2/ 


<7 

M. 

Trikone 

N. 1 / 


\l2/ 
/X 11 


/ 4. Mo 


4 /\ 10 

/7\ 


Ex of Ma ) 
Lord Sa / 


5. Su 5><^ 


Ve 


X? 9. Ju 
/ 8 X 


/ 6>fe 




8. Ma \ 



Ju 


8th 


9th 


Me 


Sa 


Mer 

Friends 

Ven Mar Jup 

Sat Sun 

Enemies 
Mon 


X 


S.Sa 


12. Su 


4.Ju 


Ma 


2.Ve 


¥ 

M. 
Trikone 



\ 2. Ve 




12. Su 




X 7 / 

Ma 8X 


¥ 

M. 
Trikone 

\6/ 


X.5/^ 
/X 4 




/ 4. Ju 


9Y3 

/irx 


Me 




S. SalW^ 


Ju 


/ X X 


9th 


/ Sa 




8th 





Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 21 



4. Ju 


S. Ma 


X 


X 


Sa 


J up 

Friends 
Sat Mar 
Mon Sun 

Enemies 
Ven Mer 


8, Mo 


2. Sa 


9. Su 


X 

M. 
Trikone 


12. Ma 


X 


X 



\ 2. Sa 




12 


.Ma / 


\10/ / 
Sa lp( 


X 

M. 
Trikone 

\v 9 / 




K7 J& 


/ 4. Ju 








S. Ma lX 
X 2 x 






><5 9. Su 
4 \ 






8. 


Mo \ 



X 


Ma 


8. Ve 


9, Me 


5. Sa 


Ven 

Friends 
Mar Sat Mer 

Enemies 
J up Mon Sun 




4. Sa 




X 


2. Ma 


? 

M. 
Trikone 


12. Me 



\ 2. Ma 






X\ 9X 


¥ 

M. 

Trikone 

\ 7/ 


\6/\ / 
XX 5 /\ 


Q 4. Sa 


1 v\ 4 




S. Saiy^ 
XlZ\ 


Ma 


X3 9. Me 
/ 2 X 

8. Ve \ 



2. Ju 


X 


4. Ve 


S. Me 


M. 
Trikone 


Sat 

Friends 
J up Ven Mer 

Enemies 
Mar Mon Sun 




Sa 




Ju 


X 


9. Ve 


8, Me 



\ 2.Ju 




Sa / 


s\ Vx 


M. 
Trikone 

\n/ 


\io/ 

Y9 Ju 


/ 4, Ve 


2 /x 8 




5. Me3X 
X 4 x 




/7 9. Ve 
/ 6 \ 

8. Me \ 



^ ft^ (from Moola Trikone) ^ftt^r (of graha) ^tf (5), ^ (12) ?w 
-m^^ (2 house) Vfsfi (4th house), ftspT (8th), ^nf (9th house) V&£ (lord of his 
exalted sign) ^f^r, (^^ = friends) ^ ^fai; (others are not) 



22 Roots of Naadi Astrology; A Comprehensive Study 



Based on the sloka in the enclosure, sign lords not crossed 
are friends and crossed sign lords are enemies to each Planet 
from its Moolatrikona sign, 

(^ercjqf^) Planets which come both as enemy and friend 
by virtue of being dual sign lord should be considered as Neutrals 
especially for a particular purpose to decide the planetary states 
derived by their Temporary relationships as given below. 

Planets posited in 2, 3, 4, 10, 11, 12 are considered as 
Temporary friends and in other places they are considered as 
enemies. 

Combining both permanent and temporary factors ultimately 
the planetary relationship is given below: 



Permanent friend + Temporary friend = Best friend 



Permanent friend =h Temporary enemy = Neutral 



Permanent enemy + Temporary enemy = Bitter enemy 



Permanent enemy + Temporary friend = Neutral 



Permanent Neural = Temporary friend = Friend 



Permanent neutral + Temporary enemy = Enemy 

These temporary relations are to be considered especially 
in horary astrology. 

Planetary Yogas: 

1 A Planet will get Shubha yoga when it is in the Rasi, 
Navamsa or in the Star, or hemmed between or 
having an aspect of Benefic Planets 

2 A Planet hemmed between friendly planets and placed in 
its direct motion heading towards his exaltation place will 
produce good results of his significations 

3 An Exalted Planet will give good result of his significations 

4 A Planet will give good results of his significations when he 
gets number of good Vargas, 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 23 

5 A Planet gives the results of the other planet which has 
aspect to it 

6 A Planet hemmed between malefic planets wilt give bad 
results of his significations 

7 A debilitated planet will give bad results of his significations 

8 A Planet which do not get good Vargas and not having 
other strength will give bad results of his significations 

9 A Planet is said have attained Ashubha yoga when 
it is in Rasi/Amsha of Malefic planets, hemmed 
between malefics or having aspect of malefics or 
placed in 3, 5, 7 Nakshatra from Janma Nakshatra, 

Planetary Avastha: which are based on the combination 
of Permanent and Temporary relationship and the possible effects 
during their Dasha are given below. (For all good results the 
planets must have good shadbala strength) 

1. Deepta (Brilliance) Exalted will give: Vehicles, 
happiness, courage, marriage, respect from relatives, 
education, material comforts favours from government 

Example horoscope 

Mercury is exalted: During Jupiter Dasha and 
Mercury bhukti, Vehicles and Marriage/ Education, 
and respect from relatives have all happened. 

2. Swastha (happy) Own sign will give: Happiness, 
wealth, conveyance and comforts 

Example horoscope 

Again Mercury is is in his own sign, which conferred 
happiness and comforts. Wealth of -course did not 
come due to weakness of Jupiter. 

3. Pramudita (comfortable) Ati Mitra sign will give: 

Pilgrimage, comforts, clothes, luxuries, religious knowledge 
and Happiness 



24 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

4. Shanta (Peaceful) Mitra sign will give: Royal favours, 
comforts, health, wealth and personality 

Example horoscope 

Moon is in friendly sign for the native of example 
horoscope during the period of Rahu, Moon bhukti 
he developed his personality and tried to earn for 
his comfort levels. 

5. Deena (Miserable) Neutral sign will give: Occupational 
hazards or low profiles, strained relations with relatives and 
diseases to native 

Example horoscope 

Venus is in neutral sign of Mars. In Rahu Dasha and 
Venus bhukti the native suffered due to disease, then 
he had problems with relatives, he also had to 
undertake low profile jobs 

In Jupiter Dasha and Venus Bhukti, he had health 
problems and also professional problems with lesser 
progress in financial growth. 

Mars is in neutral sign of Venus. In Rahu Dasha and 
Mars Bhukti, he had to take up low profile jobs and 
off-course he had problems with relatives 

6. Ati dukhita (extremely sorrow) Enemy sign will give: 

Many types of hardships, worries and tensions 

Example horoscope 

Current Dasha of the native is Jupiter who is in 
enemy sign, though due to his average strength he 
gave job, education and money, yet the native is 
facing worries, and tensions and hardships in 
professional level. 

7. Vikala (defective) Conjunct with malefic will give: 

Defects and deformities due to ill health, disgust, worries, 
hardships, ill health to wife and children troubles from 
vehicles, loss of clothes 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 25 

Example horoscope 

Rahu is conjunct with Mars, and in Rahu Dasha, he 
faced many problems but luckily he was not married 
at that time. The hard ship and worries were of 
different nature. 

8. Khala (cruel) Debilitation will give: Suffers ill health, 
difficulties, dangers from enemy/iow class, thefts 

Example horoscope 

Sun though debilitated/ being with a friend Mars did 
not cause any of these problems, In Rahu period in 
his Bhukti he helped him to recover from bad period. 
In Jupiter Dasha in his Bhukti Sun lifted him 
professionally and became more health conscious. 
However he could not get his due credits. Most 
probably, the 6 th lord being in 8 th causing yoga must 
have overshadowed the bad effects of his positional 
deficiency. However, he was deprived of his due 
credits. 

9. Kopa (angry) Combust with Sun will give: 

Unhappiness, difficulties, losses, and dangers to wife, 
children and relatives, eye troubles 

Example horoscope 

Mars is combust with Sun, I have already discussed 
the bad effects of Mars, Yes of-course, the native 
had eye sight problem and was made to wear glasses 
during Rahu Mars period. 

With 10 Planetary Avastha and 9 planetary Yoga the planets 
are entitled to give their results of Karaka Siddhanta. 

2. Karaka Siddhanta: 

In this Siddhanta Sage explains the significations of planets 
that are empowered to give during their Dasha periods based 
on their strength hitherto explained. 

I give below the table of planetary strengths for the example 
horoscope: 



26 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Planetary Stregnt 


i 


Strength Pivotal 


Sun 


Mon 


Mar 


Mer 


Jup 


Ven 


Sat 


Rah 


Ket 


1 Exalr/M.Trik/Own 








1 












2 Friendly house 




1 




1 








1 




3 Benefic hemmfng 


1 




1 










1 




4 In good house 




1 




1 




1 








5 In even stars/birth 


1 


1 




1 


1 


1 








6 Hora 


1 


1 




1 








1 




7 Drekkana 




1 


1 


1 




1 




1 




8 Navamsa 


1 




1 






1 




1 




9 Dasamsa 






1 






1 








10 Dwadasamsa 


1 


i 




1 




1 




1 




11 Trimsamsa 


1 


i 




1 




1 








Total A 


6 


7 


4 


8 


6 


7 


8 


6 


6 



Planetary Weakness 


Strength Pivotal 


Sun 


Mon 


Mar 


Mer 


Jup 


Ven 


5at 


Rah 


Ket 


1 Debilitation 


1 


















2 Enemy house 


1 








1 




1 




1 


3 Malefic hemming 




















4 Combust 






1 














5 In odd stars/birth 






1 










1 




6 Hora 






1 




1 


1 








7 Drekkana 


1 


















8 Navamsa 




1 




1 












9 Dasamsa 


1 


1 




1 








1 




10 Dwadasamsa 






1 














11 Trimsamsa 






1 










1 


1 


Total A 


4 


2 


5 


2 


2 


1 


1 


3 


2 



Total: A- B 


2 


5 


-1 


6 


4 


6 


7 


3 


4 


11 item is 100% 


18 


45 


-9. 


55 


36 


55 


64 


27 


36 


Total Percentage 


18% 


45% 


0% 


55% 


36% 


55% 


64% 


27% 


36% 


55% and above 
good yoga 








Me 


Ju 


Ve 


5a 






28% above 
ordinary yoga 




Mo 














Ke 


Below 28% 


Su 




Ma 










Ra 





Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 27 

While dealing with karaka I also simultaneously discuss the 
example horoscopes. Therefore, I am giving the strength of the 
planets against each planet. After the significations in italics I 
give the results pertaining to significations during their periods 
either Dasha or Antar Dasha. 

SUN: 

For example horoscope: it gets the strength of below 
28% therefore weak: 

Atma, Self, Father, Vigor, Personality, Character, 
Determination, Governing and Government factors, Health, 
Excellence, Head, Fever, Indigestion, Eye defects, Trouble from 
kings rulers and deities 

Example horoscope 

Rahu Dasha and Sun Bhukti, Native's father did undergo 
difficult period. The native had eye trouble; he was having 
problems with his unsettling job profile. But he recovered from 
difficulties during that period. In Jupiter Bhukti the same Sun 
bhukti gave him upliftments. 

Moon: ordinarily good: above 28% 

Mind, Mother, Favours from elite, arts, Milk and Milk 
products, Cold, Cough, Blood impurities, Lungs problems, Curse 
of angels. 

Example horoscope 

His mother was having health problems, but the native was, 
though working had little problems but getting cooperation from 
his higher ups. No health problems noticed. 

Mars: Weak 

Construction, Buildings, Powered machines, Land, 
Uniformed men, Injuries, Fire, Danger from dogs, Trouble from 
Shaivetes, Danger from horned animals, Diseases, Enmity, 
Tensions, BP, Hydrocele 



28 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Example horoscope 

Rahu Dasha Mars's period, no bad effects of above 
experienced but he had to face problems of job and hard work 
causing tensions. He got treated for dog bite. 

Mercury: Strong: 

Education, Business, Communication, Intelligence, Power 
of judgment, Maternal uncle, Stomach disorders, Skin diseases, 
Devotion to Lord Vishnu and wise persons. 

Example horoscope 

Rahu Mercury, though had problems in education, changed 
the line of education, however in Jupiter Mercury period, he 
had all good results in profession and personal life. Experienced 
stomach upsets. 

Jupiter: Strong 

Higher Intelligence / Religious rites, Yoga, children, Minister, 
Royal favours, Devotion to Guru, Fat, Liver, Belly diseases 

Example horoscope 

Jupiter Dasha he had all good results, and off-course he 
had digestive problems. 

Venus: Strong 

Vehicles, Jewelry, Wife, Wealth, Fine arts, Sexual desires, 
Sandal wood, Clothes, Diabetes and related diseases 

Example horoscope 

Rahu Dasha Venus Bhukti, the native started earning. 
However not much of Venus results were coming due to Venus 
being lord of 8 th . 

Saturn: Strong 

Longevity, Profession, Control, Wealth of paternal uncles, 
Punishment, Imprisonment, Sin, Stammering, Fear, Poverty, 
Worry, Danger from devils and thieves, Rheumatism, Pains 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 29 

Example horoscope 

The strength of Saturn saved him from evil results in both 
the Dasha; in fact in Jupiter Dasha his professional progress 
was seen. 

Rahu: weak 

Authority from the position, Regal umbrella, Paternal 
grandfather, Epilepsy, measles, Trouble from devils, Witchcraft, 
Confinement, Imprisonment, Muslims, Indigestion, Tuberculosis, 
Leprosy, Poisoning, Danger from snake bite, Aggravation of 
diseases 

Example horoscope 

During Rahu Dasha he had to join military air force services 
for a short period, during that period he had problems with 
food poisoning and he had to leave the job. He had indigestion 
problem. Other than this nothing serious happened. 

Ketu: Strong: 

Itches, Scabies, Trouble from enemies, Maternal grandfather, 
Incurable diseases due to karma, Low caste, Trouble from low 
caste people, Dejections 

Example horoscope 

Despite Ketu being strong often during his Antara period 
the native will get health problems, though financially there is 
no problem. Off-course there is no incurable disease as such. 
He has no skin problems. 

The Karakatwa results are directly linked to planetary house 
lordship and positional dignities. Some of the significations may 
synchronize with the results. But these are well experienced 
during transit of planets. This aspect is discussed in Bhrighu 
Nandi Naadi 

3. Nakshatra Siddhanta 

In fact this Siddhanta is the crux of Naadi system. Though 
many other texts have Nakshatra references the logical 



30 



Roots of Neadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



application part in birth chart analysis is given in this work of 
Satyacharya. 

The following table with regard to Nakshatra compatibility 
is generally given in most of the almanacs and commonly used 
by all for selecting a good day to commence something. There 
is no technicality involved in this. The only difference is that the 
Dasha lords are attributed to it. 

Most important: Birth Nakshatra can either be from the 
Birth ascendant or from Moon whichever is stronger as explained 
earlier. 



Janma Nakshatra and 




Aswin[ 


Bharani 


Krittika 


Rohini 


Mrigsira 


Ardra 


Punarvasu 


Pushya 


Ashlesha 


The Lords of the Dasha 


Makah 


Pubba 


Uttara 


Hasta 


Chitra 


Swati 


Vfsakha 


Anura. 


Jyestha 


Moola 


RAsh. 


UJteh. 


Shravana 


Dhanishta 


Satabhisa 


P.3ha. 


UBha. 


Revathi 


Star Compatibility Placed From Janma Nakshatra 


Ket 


Aswini 


Makah 


Moola 


1 


2 


X 


4 


X 


6 


X 


8 


9 


Ven 


Bharani 


Pubba 


Pish. 


9 






X 




X 




X 




Sun 


Krittika 


Uttara 


U.Ash. 


8 


9 


1 


2 


X 




X 


6 


X 


Mon 


Rohini 


Hasta 


Shravana 


X 




9 


1 




X 




X 


6 


Mar 


Miigsira 


Chiba 


Dhanishta 


6 


X 


8 


9 


1 




X 




X 


Rah 


Ardta 


Swati 


Satabhisa 


X 




X 




9 


1 


2 


X 




Jup 


Punarvasu 


Visakha 


P3ha. 


4 


X 




X 


8 


& 


1 


2 


X 


Sat 


Pushya 


Anura. 


U.dha. 


X 




X 


6 


X 


8 


9 


1 


2 


Mer 


Ashlesha 


Jyestha 


Revathi 


2 


X 


4 


X 


6 


X 


3 


9 


1 


1. Janma, 2. Sampath, 3, Vipath, 4. Kshema, 5. Pratyhak, 6. Saadhak, 7. Vadha, Ji. Mitra; 9. Parana NJtra 



Satyacharya uses this in qualifying the Dasha lord to give 
good or bad results based on the same principle. But most 
intelligently he uses it for entire period of Dasha equaling it to a 
day and compares them with Janma Nakshatra to decide the 
effect of the Dasha period whether good or bad. Here the word 
Naadi aptly fits in as the lengthy period of Dasha Lord is 
compressed to a time slot of a day represented by the Nakshatra 
of the Planet to compare it with the Nakshatra of day in which 
the Native was born that is Janma Nakshatra. 

{Imp: It is not simply dividing the time factor to its minutest 
divisions as in the case of divisional charts, it is also other way 
round, compressing the lengthy periods into smaller time slot 
with logical algorithms using the tools not deviating from the 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 31 

standard text is the basis of Naadi. (This is the secret of Naadi 
which I use in the Naadi delineations.)} 

1. The events of the life should be predicted from the 
Lagna alone if Lagna is stronger than Moon Lagna 
else it should be predicted from Moon Lagna. Even 
the birth star is to be considered based on the 
strength of Lagna. 

2. The Dasha of planets as indicated in the Nakshatra 
table above is to be considered in association with 
Bhava analysis 

3. Planets in Sampat (2), Kshema (4), Sadhaka (6) and 
Mitra (8) Tara gives Excellent results during their 
Dasha/Bhukti 

A Planets placed in signs trines (1, 5, and 9) to 
the signs of above stars will give best results 
during their Dasha/Bhukti 

B Planets placed in signs angles (4, 7, and 10) to 
the signs of above stars will give good results 

C Planets placed in signs cruel places (6, 8, and 
12) to the signs of above stars will give bad 
results 

4. Planets in Janma (1) and Parama Mitra (9) Tara gives 
best results during their Dasha/Bhukti 

A Planets placed in signs trines (1, 5, and 9) to 
the signs of above stars will also give best results 
during their Dasha/Bhukti 

B Planets placed in signs angles (4, 7, and 10) to 
the signs of above stars will not give good results 
but may give satisfactory results 

C Planets placed in signs cruel places (6, 8, and 
12) to the signs of above stars will give bad 
results 



32 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

5. Planets in Vipat (3), Pratyak (5) and Vadha (7) Tara 
gives bad results during their Dasha/Bhukti 

A Planets placed in signs trines (1, 5, and 9) to 
the signs of above stars will also give bad results 
during their Dasha/Bhukti 

B Planets placed in signs angles (4, 7, and 10) to 
the signs of above stars will not give bad results 
but may give satisfactory results 

C Planets placed in signs cruel places (6, 8, and 
12) to the signs of above stars will give good 
results 

6. Wherever auspicious results are being produced by 
the Planet in the above cases, it is based again on 
the shadbala of the planet. If the planet has full 
strength the results will be very good and if it is of 
moderate strength it will be moderately good and 
where the planet is weak the good results will be 
meager. In case of bad results, a strong planet may 
reduce the effects of bad whereas the weak planet 
worsens the bad effect. 

Though the Nakshatra Siddhanta predominantly empowers 
the planet to give good or bad results in its Dasha bhukti 
periods, it is also used in Bhava analysis with respect to 
Bhava lord's stellar position, 

We have already used this Siddhanta in earlier example. 

This peculiarity is the reason for calling it as Naadi 
system especially Dhruva Naadi because Dhruva also 
refers to Nakshatra 

4. Vargottama Siddhanta: 

The Planetary strength will be determined by its position in 

1 Rasi 

2 Navamsa 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 33 

3 Drekkana 

4 Dasamamsa 

5 Dwadashamsa 

6 Trimsamsa 



A Benefic planet getting more than two Vargas 

A in its exaltation will have 100/% strength 

B in its Moola trikona it gets 75% strength 

C in its own sign it gets 50% strength 

D in its friendly sign it gets 25% strength 

E in enemy sign it gets lesser than 25% strength 

F If Debilitated, Astangata or Moudhya it will be weak. 



Planet 


Degree of exaltation 


Degree of debilitation 


Sun 


Aries 10 Degree 


Libra 10 Degree 


Moon 


Taurus 3 Degree 


Scorpio 03 degree 


Mars 


Capricorn 28 degrees 


Cancer 28 degrees 


Mercury 


Virgo 15 degrees 


Pisces 15 degrees 


Jupiter 


Cancer degrees 


Capricorn 05 degree 


Venus 


Pisces 27 degree 


Virgo 27 degree 


Saturn 


Libra 20 degree 


Aries 20 degrees 



5. Adhipatya Siddhanta 

Including Lagna all the 12 signs are called Bhavas. The 
sign lords of these Bhavas are lords of the Bhava. Each of these 
Bhava will signify several matters of life. There are innumerable 
significations which run into volumes if put it on paper. However 
commonly studied important significations are tabled in section 
I. 

Each of these Bhavas have planets representing it as Karaka 
as shown below: 



34 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 





1 st 


Sun 


2nd 


Jupiter 


3rd 


Mars 


4th 


Moon 


5 th 


Jupiter 


6 th 


Saturn, Mars 


7 th 


Venus 


8 th 


Saturn 


gth 


Jupiter, Sun 


10 th 


Jupiter, Saturn, Sun, Mercury 


11 th 


Jupiter 


12 th 


Saturn 



In continuation to the Bhava analysis said earlier, in this 
Siddhanta, Sage prescribes the strength and weakness of Bhava 
based on Adhipatya. Natural benefics however will flourish the 
Bhava with their influence. On the contrary natural malefic will 
destroy the good effects of the Bhava. One good clarification 
the Sage gives here is about the 6, 8, 12 houses. Benefic planets 
here will reduce the evil effects of the houses while the malefic 
here will enhance the malefic nature of these houses- 
Counted from Lagna or Chandra whichever is stronger, the 
houses 3, 6, 10, 11 are upachaya (producing prosperity 
progressively) houses rest of the houses are apachaya houses 



Strength and Weakness of the Bhava 

A Bhava will be strong to produce its full effects: 

1 When the lord of a particular Bhava gets the aspect from 
benefic planets 

2 When a Lord is placed in upachaya houses from Lagna 

A Bhava will be weak to produce its full effects: 

1 When the lord of a particular Bhava gets the aspect from 
Malefic planets 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 35 



2 When the lord is placed in 6, 8, 12 from Lagna, from Lagna 
lord or from the Bhava. 

(Note: Elaborated scholarly commentary on Jaataka Chandrika has 
some different view on placement of lords especially when a planet 
gets the dignity of Dosha due to Adhipatya of benefics and malefics 
planets. There is a striking intelligence involved to pin down yoga 
classifications to planets. This technicality is based on the Dharma, 
Artha, Kama, Moksha classification of houses. The qualitative dignities 
are classified into Shubha, Raja yoga. Yoga, Shubha, Avayoga, 
Ashubha, Yoganukoola, Sandharbha Guna, Papa. Then the results are 
attributed through their relationships with houses and planets.) 

In addition to this the Bhava analysis prescribed below is to 
be considered. 

Bhavas Thrive or Decline 

1. If its lord and Karaka both are in their Exalted, Moola trikona 
or own signs the Bhava will thrive 

la. If it is debilitated or placed in enemy quarter the Bhava will 
decline 

2. If the Bhava lord is hemmed between natural benefic planets 
the Bhava will thrive 

2a. If it is hemmed between natural malefic planets the Bhava 
will decline 

3. If the Bhava lord is placed in Kendra or Trikona houses the 
Bhava will thrive 

3a. if the Bhava is lord is placed in 6, 8, 12 from Lagna and also 
placed 12 th to its own house, then the Bhava will decline 

4. If a Bhava lord is placed 2, 3, 11 houses which are either 
his exalted, Moola trikona, own or friendly house, then the 
Bhava owned by him will thrive. 

4a. if the above houses happen to be his debilitated, enemy 
sign then the Bhava will decline 

5. If the Bhava lord is placed in the even stars counted from 
Birth star as decided earlier based on strengths, or if it is in 
birth star itself or in 9 th star the Bhava will thrive. 



36 



Roots of Neadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



5a. If the Bhava lord is placed in the odd stars excluding birth 
star & 9 th star counted as above, the Bhava will decline 

6. If the Bhava lord is combust the Bhava will decline 

7. If the lord of the Bhava is placed within 6 signs from his 
own Bhava (which shall not be 6, 8, 12 to Lagna) or his 
debilitated or enemy sign the Bhava will thrive. 

8. If the Lord of a Bhava is progressing towards exaltation 
sign and if it does not happen to be 6, 8, 12 or 12 th to his 
own Bhava and if it is not his debilitated or enemy sign the 
Bhava will thrive, 

8a. Unless Bhava lord gains more benefic places in shodasha 
varga charts, his direction towards his debilitated sign not 
being a Kendra, Kona, exalted, Moolatrikona, Friendly sign 
the Bhava will decline. 

9. Bhava itself will thrive if it is occupied or having aspect of 
natural benefics or hemmed between benefic planets. 

9a. A Bhava will decline when it is flanked on either side by 
natural malefic planets or influenced by them by occupation 
or aspect. 

To apply the above rules to example horoscope some more 
components are needed to compute as follows: 

Planets in Even stars, Odd stars and in Janma Tara 
and 9 th Star Parama Mitra Tara in the example 
horoscope: 



Planets 




Tara 
in 


Nature 


lord 


Nakshatra 
trines 


Sat 


1 


Janma 


Birth 


Mer 


Rev 


Asl 


Jys 


Ket 


2 


Sam pat 


Wealth 


Ket 


Asw 


Mgh 


Mol 




3 


Vipat 


Danger 


Ven 


Bha 


Pbb 


P.as 


Jup 


4 


Kshema 


Good 


Sun 


Krl 


Utr 


U.as 




5 


Pratyak 


Obstacle 


Moo 


Ron 


Has 


Srv 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 37 





Sun, Moo 
Mer 


6 


Sadhaka 


Success 


Mar 


Mrg 


Chi 


Dns 


Mar, Rah 


7 


Nidhana 


Death 


Rah 


Ard 


Swa 


Stb 




8 


Mitra 


Friend 


Jup 


P.vs 


Viis 


Pbr 


Ven 


9 


P.mitra 


Good 


Sat 


Pus 


Anu 


Ubr 



Further it is essential to have varga charts for the example 
horoscope: 



Varga charts for above 
Example: 













Natal Chart 

HORA 
D-2 


Ma 




Su Sa Mo 
Ra As Ke 

Me 












Set 




Me 




Ra 

Ma 


Natal Chart 

DREKKANNA 
D-3 






Ke 




Ve 
As 


Su 






38 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 







- 




\. Ma / \. / 

\j/ Sa \9/ 
12X As X 8 s u 
/ \ Ra / \ 

2X Ke Xs Ve 

/3\ / 5 \ 


IS 


Natal Chart 

NAVAMSA 
D-9 


Ke 


Sa 
As 

Ra 


Me 
Mo 




Su 




Ve 



fl? 






As 




Natal Chart 

DASAMSA 
D-9 


Ke 


Me 

Ra 

Mo 






Su 


Sa 


Ve 





Ke 








x 4 / 


AS 

\. 3 / 

/ 9 X. 


X'ffi 


Ve 


7X 

Sa 


Su 


X 11 Ra 
/io\ Mo 



Sa 



Ra 
Ve 



Su 



Ma 



Natal Chart 

DWADASAMSA 
D-12 



As 




Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 39 











\ Su 
/ 3 \ 


Sa 
As 


Ra Ke / 
Ma / 

NK Me 
/\! Mo 


Su 


Natal Chart 

TRIMSAMSA 
D-13 




Sa 

As 




Ra 
Ke 

Ma 


Me 
Mo 




Ve 
(Ju) 



With these additional information and with the information 
earlier explained the strength and weakness of the Bhavas is to 
be computed for the example horoscope: 



Bhava strength computation f 


or 


the example horoscope: 


Benefic Points for Bhava through Lords - Benel 


FicP 


anet Influences 


Strength Pivotal 


1 


2 


3 


4 


S 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


Ra 


Ke 




Ju 


Ma 


Ve 


Me 


Mo 


Su 


Me 


Ve 


Ma 


Ju 


Sa 


Sa 


Ra 


Ke 


Exalt/M.Trik/Own 








1 






1 
















Friendly house 








1 


1 
















1 




Benefic hemming 




1 








1 






1 








1 




■In good house 






1 


1 


1 




1 


1 






1 


1 






In 2, 3, 11 


1 


















1 








1 


In even stars/birth 


1 




1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 




1 


1 


1 




1 


With in 6 houses 


1 


















1 


1 


1 




1 


Towards exaltation 


1 




1 










1 




1 


1 


1 






House own aspect 




1 


1 










1 


1 




1 








Jup asp house 






1 








1 




1 




1 








Ven asp house 






11 
























Mer asp house 


1 












1 
















House Hemmed 
















1 














Hora 








1 


1 


1 


1 








1 


1 


1 


1 


Drekkana 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 




1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


Navamsa 


1 


1 


1 






1 






1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


Dasamsa 


1 


1 


1 










1 


1 


1 


1 


1 




1 



40 


Roots of Naadi Astrology 


>:A 


Comprehensive Study 




Dwadasamsa 


1 




1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 




1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


Trimsamsa 


1 




1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 




1 


1 


1 






Total A 


10 


S 


11 


8 


7 


6 


9 


9 


6 


9 


12 


10 


6 


8 


Bhava weakness for the above example horoscope; 


Benefic Points for Bhava through Lords - Malefic Planet Influences 


Strength Pivotal 


1 


2 


3 


4 


S 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


Ra 


Ke 




Ju 


Ma 


Ve 


Me 


Mo 


Su 


Me 


Ve 


Ma 


Ju 


Sa 


Sa 


Ra 


Ke 


Deblitation 












1 


















Enemy house 


1 










1 












1 




1 


Malefic hemming 






























6, 8, 12/12 th 

to own house 




1 








1 






1 








1 




Combust 




1 


























In odd stars/birth 




1 






















1 




Beyond 6 houses 




1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


1 










1 




Towards diblitation 




1 


























Hora 


1 


1 


1 










1 




1 










Drekkana 












1 


















Navamsa 








1 


1 




1 
















Dasamsa 








1 


1 


1 














1 




Dwadasamsa 




1 














1 












Trimsamsa 




1 














1 








1 


1 


Malefic occupation 






























Sat asp houses 




1 






i 




1 
















Mar asp houses 






1 


1 








1 






1 








Mon asp houses 




1 










1 
















Sun asp houses 






1 










1 














Rah asp houses 
















1 














Ket asp houses 




1 


























Malefic hemmed 
houses 












































Total B 


2 


11 


4 


4 


4 


6 


4 


5 


8 


1 


1 


1 


s 


2 



By deducting Bhava weakness total (B) from Bhava strength 
total (A) I the following strength for the 12 Bhavas. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 41 





A - B Top Score 


8 




7 








5 






8 


11 


9 




6 


Average 








4 


3 






4 














Below Average 




-6 















-2 








1 




Houses 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 







With this computation applying the rules as mentioned 
above, for the example horoscope we get the strength of the 
Bhavas as follows: 

Bhavas 1, 3, 7, 10, 11, 12 has full strength 

Bhavas 4, 5, 8 Bhava gets average strength. 

Thus Bhavas 9, 6, 2 Bhavas have no strength at all. 

In Karaka Siddhanta strengths of Karakas will be considered 
to assess the qualitative effect of Bhavas. 

Proclaiming that the predictions made considering 
Panchasidhanthika would never go wrong, the great Sage ends 
his hi-tech Adhyaya on Panchasidhanthika. 



42 Rdots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Section III 



Bhava Phala 

Sage maintains brevity in enumerating the Bhava Phala 
generalizing for all 12 Ascendant and advises to use experience 
and logic in delineation of Bhava Phala independently for each 
ascendant. 

We find the following method to be useful in delineations 
of Bhava Phala 

1. The modified effects of Bhava by Bhava analysis along with 
the Planetary Yogas and Planetary Moods given in 
earlier paragraphs are all to be taken into consideration to 
delineate Bhava Phala" 

2. A lord sitting in a house will get the significations of that 
house along with the Karakatwa of the Planet ruling that 
house as Lord. 

3. The material welfare and eventualities denoted by house 
matters of occupant will thrive or decline through the 
objects and persons signified by the house and the lord of 
that house. 

4. The character/personal and biological matters of houses 
of occupant get influenced positively or negatively by the 
relational and temperamental biological matters signified 
of the house and the lord of that house. 

5. The good or bad effects of Bhava are based on the Bhava 
analysis and the Shubha and Ashubha yoga of both 
the occupant and the Lord of the House. The Natural 
signification of the Lord as a planet will be modified based 
on the sign status which will either support or negate the 
signification of the planet occupying the said sign. 

6. The Bhava governed by the Planet as Lord and as Bhava 
karaka will also get modified based on the beneficial or 

"■ malicious status of the house to that particular planet with 
respect to his Bhava representation. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 43 

7. If more than one planet occupy, the mutual modifications 
of the significations of occupied planet along with the 
modified effect of the house and the house lord due to the 
presence of these planets are to be assessed to consider 
the effects of a planet in that house. This is due to the fact 
that a planet in a house responsible to give the results, will 
also cover the Bhava and Bhava karaka results of Planets 
which are associated by Conjunction 

8. The results will also get modified by the planets who are 
placed in Mutual aspect, Mutual exchange or being in Kendra 
or Kona to planet occupying a Bhava. 

The effects will vary based on the ascendant therefore it is 
not proper to generalize the effects of Bhava when lords occupy 
particular Bhava. Using the basic signification given in the table 
the effects of lord of each Bhava when posited different Bhava 
can be ascertained for general assumption of the outcome of 
such Bhava. 

In order to know the effects of planets as lords when they 
occupy different Bhava the following points are to be considered: 

The places 6, 8, 12 give the bad effects. Therefore Lords of 
6 th , 8 th and 12 th carry these bad effects. If they are natural 
malefic planets the bad effects are fortified. 12 th house is vyaya 
sthana to Lagna, 8 th house is vyaya to Bhagya and 6 th is vyaya 
to Saptama. The bad effects of these houses are experienced 
when these lords are placed in bad houses. The bad effects are 
also transferred to planet being posited in these places. The 
nature of bad effects is based on the nature of planets involved 
as Bhava lords posited in 6 th 8 th , 12 th house and the nature of 
sign lord and signs which shall modify the effects and helps in 
knowing more details about the bad results. This applies to all 
Bhava lords when they occupy a house which is 12 th to the 
Bhava owned by them. If the Lords of 6 th 8 th and 12 th goes to 
other good Bhava, the bad effects of 6 th , 8 th , 12 th house are 
considerably reduced and the effects of other Bhava is to be 
decided upon the natural signification of planets being benefic 
or malefic. The rule is that a planet will get the signification of 



44 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



the sign where it is posited and the natural signification of planet 
is modified by the sign qualities. The Lordship of the planet will 
thrive with good effects if the sign occupied by planet represents 
a good house. The occupied house will get modified by the 
benefic and malefic nature of planet and the lordship of benefic 
or malefic. Significations are to be carefully, patiently & logically 
analyzed and identified for mutual harmony or disharmony with 
nature of planets, with their lordship and the houses occupied 
by them. Further fine tuning is based on Panchasiddhanthika 
the effects of these good and bad results can be attributed to 
planets with more accuracy. 

However in brief I will give the effect of 12 Bhavas keeping 
in view the above rules except where the effects of Planet as 
lord of different houses differing to each Lagna and multiple 
planet occupation & mutual relationship with other planets. 
Presuming that the lords attain Shubha yoga and good mood, 
thriving results of Bhava is indicated against "Benefic Yoga" 
and for contrary dignities to Lords and Bhava the results are 
indicated against "Malefic Yoga". Practically there could be 
mixed effects which needs logical interpretation while assessing 
individual horoscopes. In the example horoscope the strength 
of Bhavas are as follows: 

Bhavas 1, 3, 7, 10, 11, 12 has full strength 

Bhavas 4, 5, 8 gets average strength. 

Thus Bhavas 9, 6, 2 have no strength at all. 

The following Planetary Yoga is computed for the above 
example horoscope 



Total: A - B 


2 


5 


-1 


6 


4 , 


6 


7 


3 


4 


11 item is 100% 


18 


45 


-9 


55 


36 


55 


64 


27 


36 


Total Percentage 


18% 


45% 


0% 


55% 


36% 


55% 


64% 


27% 


36% 


55% and above 
good yoga 








Me 


Ju 


Ve 


Sa 






28% above 
ordinary yoga 




Mo 














Ke 


Below 28% 


Su 




Ma 










Ra 





Classical Naadi Systems; Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 45 

While giving Bhava Phala when the lords of the houses 
occupy or aspect different Bhavas in, the example horoscope 
Bhava results will also be indicated taking into consideration 
above Bhava strengths and planetary yoga. 

Lagna lord in different Bhavas 

If Ascendant itself is in Chara Rasi and the Navamsa Lagna 
is of a benefic lord and if the Lagna sign lord in both Rashi and 
Amsa is in Kendra or Kona or in a beneficial sing in Rasi and 
Amsha then this is supposed to be a great yoga for person for 
Royal position. 

If the Lord of the Ascendant is in Kendra or Kona house 
and in a benefic sign in the Rasi and Navamsa Chart and also if 
he is in a benefic star (Nakshatra Siddhanta) then the Native 
will attain Royal status. 

With a Shubha yoga if the Lord of Lagna is placed in Kendra 
having shadbala strength then the native will have the qualities 
of the Lord of Lagna and will be leader. 

Since Lagna is a Kendra, this can be attributed to the effects 
of Lagna Lord in Lagna. 

Example horoscope: 

The Lagna of the native is mutable sign. In Navamsa it falls 
in fixed sign. Therefore the native is not a leader. But having 
average strength, being in Sthira Navamsa and dual sign lord, 
the native progressively rises in the life. 

The Lagna lord Jupiter is getting good yoga; general health 
conditions and progress through se/f-efforts is witnessed. 

Lagna lord in 2 nd house: 

Effect: Self and Dignity influenced by Expression and 
Acquiring: 

Benefic Yoga: he will gain wealth and happiness as he 
will be nullifying the effect of 8 th house of distress and gets the 
happiness. 



46 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Malefic Yoga: he will lose the wealth and fall in distress, 
will have unrest in the family and difficulties in basic learning. 
He may become a liar and resort to sinful acts. 

Lagna Lord in 3 rd house 

(In the example chart the 3 rd house gains good 
strength and the Lagna lord Jupiter with good yoga is 
posited here) 

Effect: Self and Dignity influenced by Ability and agreement: 

Benefic Yoga: He will be an able person, gets the help of 
siblings to be daring and powerful. Due to association of 9 th 
house occult matters and religious matters along with 
communication and third house matters he will be proficient in 
astrology and other related matters. 

Example horoscope: 

(Native: He is adventurous and dares to take risks 
for progress; there has been a cordial relationship with 
the siblings. Though not keenly interested in pursuing 
religious rites and occult subjects, he has faith in these 
matters. He does believe in Astrology) 

Malefic Yoga: He will be coward and fail in communication 
ability. He will have misunderstandings with siblings and engages 
in irreligious activities 

Lagna lord in 4 th house 

Effect: Self, Comfort/Learn/Emotion and Mother 

Benefic Yoga: Landed Property, Vehicles, Comforts, 
Happiness, Peace, Inherited Property From Mother, Good Basic 
Education. 

Malefic Yoga: He will be deprived of comforts, assets and 
inheritance will face problems in learning and may not have 
comforts from mother. He may suffer from Lung related 
problems. He will have problems dealing with masses. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 47 

Lagna lord in 5 th house 

Effect: Self, wisdom, pleasure and progeny 

Benefic Yoga: He will have royal favours, he may be 
sheltered by elite people, will also get the blessings of deities 
and will pursue pleasurable activities and will be blessed with 
progeny. He will have political interest and may involve in political 
activities 

Malefic Yoga: He may be deprived of happiness of 
progeny; he may stupidly behave and create problems for himself 
from elite circle. He will be deprived of success in politics; He 
may fail in competitive efforts and need to put more efforts in 
his professional life. He may face the wrath of deities. He will 
suffer from belly related problems and leading to tensions, BP 
and heart problems. 

Lord of Lagna in 6 th house 

Effect: Self, Hard work Fault, Rift, Risk of health 

Benefic Yoga: He may overcome difficulties in the work 
front and avoid risks and he will take up a job of armed forces 
and he will have good relationship with partners, and strive to 
maintain good health. He will avoid rfsky debts and win over 
litigations 

Malefic Yoga: He may suffer from sickness, encounter 
problems in service, incur debts and involve in litigations both 
at relational and social activities. He may face problems with 
maternal uncles and will suffer from stomach and head related 
diseases. 

Lagna lord in 7 th house: 

Effect: Self, Association and targets: 

Benefic Yoga: He may reside in foreign or in wife/ partner's 
house, he will have good marital life and try for independent 
vocation and gets cooperation and gains from marital life. He 
may have illicit relation with opposite sex. He is recognized in 
the society. 



48 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Malefic Yoga: He may involve in scandals, loss in 
partnerships and will have marred marital life; he may get blames 
from society and face problems from spouse side. 

Lagna lord in 8 th House: 

Effect: Self, distress and illicit affairs: 

Benefic Yoga: This position is good for longevity and to 
maintain immune system in the body. He will overcome distress 
and keep away from illicit affairs; he will be benefited from 
legacy, he may have foreign visits, he will maintain good relation 
with others by helping them, he may not earn much though he 
puts hard work but he has chances of getting sudden incomes 
at times. He will take care of health matters of both self and his 
spouse. 

Malefic Yoga: He will suffer with difficulties and chronic 
diseases and he may have problems relating to private parts 
and may be prone to kidney problems. He will lose in every 
effort and his foreign journey will create problems for him. He 
will be blamed by his close friends and relatives, he will have 
sudden loss in his wealth matters and face problems of health 
both self and spouse. He is prone to accidents and danger to 
life. 

Lagna lord in 9 th House: 

Effect: Self, merits, religion and fortune, father 

Benefic Yoga: He will be interested in charitable deeds 
and devoted to priestly persons. His father will have recognition 
in the society and this will help the native in his career. He may 
be benefited from his father. He will have fortune smiling at him 
and will go for higher education and knowledge. He will be in 
command with his active life and get the consent of people for 
his projects and plans. He will have supportive life partner and 
gains happiness and comforts- 
Malefic Yoga: He may not get the due rewards for his 
efforts and he may often change the activities in life. He will be 
irreligious and go against his well-wishers and father. He may 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based — Satya Jaataka 49 

be deprived of happiness from his father and father may face 
problems due to native's action. He may not have good marital 
relationship and may opt for 2 nd relationship. He will have 
problems relating to thighs and may suffer from sciatica and 
gout problems. 

Lagna Lord in 10 th House 

Effect: Self, Action and status: 

Benefic Yoga: Name, fame, (planets in and aspect to 10 th , 
lord of 10 th , dispositor of 10 th , Lagna lord, Lagna dispositor and 
planets in Lagna will have relation to his profession) and the 
stronger among these will give raja yoga in the field of profession. 

Malefic Yoga: Weak planets associated with Lagna and 
10 th house will bring ill fame and will have miserable professional 
life. He may not settle in smooth profession. 

Lagna Lord in 11 th House 

Effect: Self, hopes and achievements. 

Benefic Yoga: will gain in all his endeavors, he may have 
gain from elder brother; he will have satisfaction from acquiring 
things of his choice and enjoy the good company of friends- 
Malefic Yoga: He may encounter enmity factors and may 
be deprived of happiness from elder brother. He will not be 
satisfied about fulfillment of his desires. 

Lagna Lord in 12 th House 

Effect: Self-delink and reallocate 

Benefic Yoga: He will be inclined towards religious and 
saintly life; he will detach from the worldly pleasures and attain 
mental calmness. He will be active in meritorious deeds. 

Malefic Results: He will be worried about the separation 
from kith and kin and he will develop ill health needing 
hospitalization. He will forego sound sleep and increase his 
mental agony. He will often face displacement and displeasures 
and pains. 



50 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



2 nd House matters: 

If 2 nd house gets good strength, then the accumulation of 
wealth, good family environments are indicated. On the contrary 
if the house is weak, loss of wealth, incurring expenses and 
family problems may crop up. 

(In the example horoscope this house is weak, the 
native would incur expenditure and may not get wealth 
accumulated as desired, earnings do not equal tor efforts. 
He faced family problems.) 

(Ketu is in his 2 nd house gaining good strength, but 
the nature of Ketu is blocking, therefore, wealth 
supposed to have come from father was blocked and 
though Ketu helped in getting income but equally gave 
expenditures. Karaka for 2 nd house Jupiter is strong 
which is a plus point for the native which made him to 
earn money.) 

2 nd Lord in 1 st House 

Benefic Yoga: Own efforts to earn wealth. If Lagna lord 
is in 9 th indicating father, the wealth is through father. Self- 
going to house of father indicates that the Father's fifth house 
lord is in Lagna of father seeking help. If the 2 nd lord goes to 9 th 
House the wealth of the native is going to father's house. That 
is father benefiting through wealth of children. 

Malefic Yoga: The earning of wealth and the benefits of 
wealth indicated above will be lost, 

2 nd Lord in 2 nd House 

If the 2 nd lord is placed in his own house, in Kendra or Kona 
from Lagna, Lagna lord or from 2 nd house itself or if he is hemmed 
or influenced by benefic planets being in a benefic sign or in 
benefic star or in benefic Amsha especially if any one of these 
placement happens to be his exaltation house the native will 
gain wealth through the significations of the sign, lord and karaka 
plants related to him through their influence. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 51 



On the contrary if any other places rendering the 2 nd lord 
weak and influenced by malefic he may expend his wealth 
through the significations of the planets adversely influencing 
this lord. 2 nd house also indicate maraka house, therefore native 
may also suffer due to illness and may find difficult situations in 
life. 

2 nd Lord in 3 rd 

Benefic Yoga: Wealth through siblings and Performing 
arts. 

Malefic Yoga: Wealth loss due to above significations. 

2 nd Lord in 4 th 

Benefic Yoga: Wealth through Mother and through 
significations of 4 th house. 

Malefic Yoga: Above significations will cause Loss of 
wealth. 

2 nd Lord in 5 th 

Benefic Yoga: Wealth through children, Elite persons and 
Religious institutions. 

Malefic Yoga: Loss of Wealth due to above sources. 

2 nd Lord in 6 th 

Benefic Yoga: Wealth through Medical profession, 
Litigation, Theft and gambling and also through the matters 
signified by the Planet as lord of 6 th house. 

Malefic Yoga: Loss of wealth due to the sources mentioned 
above and bad effects. 

2 nd lord in 7 th 

Benefic Yoga: Wealth from foreign resources, the persons 
indicated by the planets involved through, star, Amsha or aspects. 
He will gain from these persons. There will be influence of spouse 
in getting wealth. Malefic influences if any will indicate the 
malicious means of earnings. 



52 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Malefic Yoga: Wealth may be lost due to foreign 
involvement. The family may undergo stress factors due to 
wickedness of spouse or partner. Malefic influence on this will 
lead to disputes and distress in family and finance matters. 

2 nt » lord in 8 th 

Benefic Yoga: Earning of wealth and expenditure are both 
are indicated. The source of earning and spending will be through 
the nature of planets forming yoga. 

Malefic Yoga: Loss of wealth is indicated. The signification 
of planets involved indicates the situation and person involved 
causing loss. 

(In the example horoscope Mars as 2 nd lord is weak 
being posited in 8 th house along with Rahu and Sun. 8 th 
house getting medium strength and Sun signifying 
father being posited in 8 th house which is 12 th to 9 th 
house. Father acquired wealth and lost. Rahu another 
malefic sitting along with Sun caused harm to the wealth 
of father which the native should have got by 
inheritance. All the planets throwing aspect on 2 nd house 
deprived the native of this wealth. Incidentally Mars is 
also 9 th lord the house of father posited in 12 th to it that 
is 8 th house to native) 

(The karaka for 2 nd house is the main resource for 
him to earn money, Jupiter as Dhana karaka having good 
yoga, is also lord of 10 th house and Lagna, which made 
him to earn money through profession which he acquired 
through self-efforts.) 

2 nd Lord in 9 th 

Benefic Yoga: Wealth from father and elders; Wealth may 
also be earned through the signification of 9 th lord and its 
associates. 

Malefic Yoga: May not get Wealth from father, the 
signification of 9 th lord and its association will indicate the reasons 
for not acquiring wealth. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based -Satya Jaataka 53 



2 nd Lord in 10 th 

Benefic Yoga: Earning of Wealth through service or 
business, or through religious acts and through auspicious 
ceremonies and through agriculture. He may also gain through 
the in-laws support. 

Malefic Yoga: Loss of wealth or hardships in services, 
lesser income and problems in the family and obstructions from 
the in-laws. 

2 nd Lord in 11 th 

Benefic Yoga: Earnings through money lending, trade and 
through elder brother. 

Malefic Yoga: Loss in trade and money lending activities 
and expenditure due to elder brother and friends, 

2 nd Lord in 12" 1 

Benefic Yoga: Wealth through religious means, or 
displacementsor through asylums 

Malefic Yoga: Loss through religious acts, and change of 
lace or due to asylums. 

3 rd house and its lord: 

3 rd lord, karaka Mars and the dispositor of 3 rd lord are all 
strong the brothers of the native will have prosperity and fame. 
Native will have determination in his actions. Third lord if placed 
in trine to ascendant and Lagna lord being a friend will make 
native to live with this brother together in a house. The Number 
of siblings male or female is decided by the male and female 
signs involved in Rasi, Navamsa and star in relation to 3 rd house 
and its lord and karaka. Placement of 3 rd lord in upachaya houses 
having strength will also indicate the number of siblings. 
Weakness in these positions reduces the number of siblings. 
Involvement of dual signs in different components like Navamsa, 
sign, star will indicate twin siblings. If the 3 rd lord and the 
dispositor are disposed with heavy afflictions rendering 3 rd house 



54 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

weak, it will result in absence of siblings or disharmony with 
them. If similar affliction involves female signs, it indicates 
immoral character of female siblings. This may also cause 
deafness to native. Malefic planets linked with 6 th 8 th 12 th house 
to 3 rd house may indicate distress or dangers to siblings. 

(3 rd house has got good strength in the example 
horoscope* Third lord has also got good yoga. The Karaka 
for the 3 rd house Mars is weak.) 

(The 3 rd lord himself is a female planet and is in the 
female sign and he has aspect on his own house. This 
accounts for a female sibling to native. He has a sister. 
The dispositor Mars not only weak but also placed in 8 th 
house along with debilitated Sun and Rahu, the native 
had to take care of his sister and guide her to settle 
down in life, for which he had to undergo mental 
tensions.) 

3 rd Lord in 1 st house 

Beneflc Yoga: He will lend support to his siblings; he will 
go out of the way in achieving things. He may be interested in 
matters of arts and communication. His ability is recognized in 
the society. 

Malefic Yoga: He will have disputes with siblings, he will 
adopt crocked means to achieving things and will be involve in 
undesirable acts by which he may gain ill fame in the society. 

3 rd Lord in 2 nd House: 

Benefic Yoga: Native may earn money by investing his 
earnings. He may also gain from communication and related 
activities. He may also gain through siblings. 

Malefic Yoga: He may not have younger siblings, if he 
has most of the the native's earnings will be spent on them and 
they will be spend thrift. If this 3 rd lord is natural malefic, the 
native may lose much of his wealth because of the younger 
siblings. 



Ciassical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 55 

3 rd lord in 3 rd 

Benefic Yoga: Prosperity of siblings. Native will be 
courageous and gets benefits through significations of the house 
the signification of planets. Father of the native may gain through 
his spouse side. 

Malefic Yoga: Brothers may suffer and the native will face 
problems in communications and will be coward in nature. The 
father may get problems through his spouse side. 

3 rd lord in 4 th 

Benefic Yoga: Younger siblings will gain wealth. Native 
may put his efforts in own place to achieve recognition and 
assets. He may use his professional influence in getting benefits. 

Malefic Yoga: Native may lose assets and he may have 
mental worries because of staying in rented house. His mother 
may suffer with ill health. Native may face professional problems 
and may lose recognition. 

3 rd Lord is 5 th 

Benefic Yoga: Being 3 rd to 3 rd it indicates multiplicity of 
siblings. Most of them will have gains from religious and elite 
circles. The native takes initiative in religious activities and he 
may have get support from rich persons. 

Malefic Yoga: Younger siblings may earn bad name and 
create problems to the native. They themselves get blamed or 
abused by the religious or elite persons. The native may tend to 
commit sinful acts. He may be at financial loss. 

3 rd Lord in 6 th 

Benefic yoga: 3 rd house being 10 th to 6 th house, this may 
cause him recognition in a profession of serving or protecting 
nature. He will save money and he will have a serving 
establishment. His brother will earn assets and will have good 
physique. 



56 Roots of Neadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Malefic Yoga: He may steal and resort to cheating others 
and also gain ill fame. His brothers may lose their assets and 
may face ill health problems. Native may have problems with 
uncles. 

3 rd Lord in 7 th 

Benefic Yoga: He may expect help from brother as he will 
be in 7 th aspecting Lagna. He can also expect help from father 
in law. Brother will be in good position. If the dispositor of 7 th is 
in Lagna the brother may be settled in foreign. 

Malefic Yoga: His brother may cause problems to him 
and he may involve in undesired activities with in-laws. 

3 rd Lord in 8 th 



Benefic yoga: Despite benefic yoga, 8 th house is 6 th to 3 rd 
house; therefore the siblings may have distress due to enmity, 
ill health. 

Malefic yoga: 3 rd house is transactions and being 6 th house 
to Lagna, the person may lose his earnings. He may also suffer 
with diseases relating to 3 rd house. 

3 rd Lod in 9 th 

Benefic yoga: Siblings will be close to father and may get 
benefited from the wealth of father. In case the 9 th lord is in 
ascendant, the native may get benefits from father and siblings. 

Malefic Yoga: Native may not be cordial with father or he 
may lose his paternal property through his siblings. Siblings 
may also cause ill fame due to misdeeds. 

(In native's horoscope 3 rd lord Venus is posited in 
9 th house with good yoga. Yes the sibling of the native 
is close to her father and got benefited from father's 
savings.) 

3 rd Lord in 10 th 

Benefic yoga: Siblings will thrive in business and maintain 
status in the society. Native may get help from siblings. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 57 

Malefic Yoga: Siblings may lose in business and native 
may have to suffer due to this. 

3 rd Lord in 11 th 

Benefic Yoga: Native may have more number of siblings 
and may get support from them to gain wealth. 

Malefic Yoga: it indicates dangers to siblings. 

3 rd Lord in 12 th 

Benefic Yoga: Native is deprived of siblings. 

Malefic Yoga: Native may have siblings. 

4 th Lord in 1 st 

Benefic Yoga: Native will be born in wealthy family. He 
will have good education and knowledge in many subjects. He 
will be happy throughout his life. The sign qualities will modify 
the nature of such comfort levels. 

Malefic Yoga: Educational breaks, deprived of motherly 
care, loss of inherited property and trouble through assets 

4 th lord in 2 nd 

Benefic Yoga: Native may gain property from uncle. 
Earnings through lands, Conveyance and comforts support from 
family and happiness are indicated. 

Malefic Yoga: Loss of property and comforts, 

4 th Lorcl in 3 rd 

Benefic Yoga: Little money and land. He may have step 
brother and develop dispute with him. He may also sell away 
his property 

Malefic yoga: He may gain property through step brothers 
and acquire lands from them. 



58 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

4 th Lord in 4 th 

Benefic Yoga: He may own more lands and he may get 

hidden treasure (with straight looking planets). He will grow 
rich. He may earn money through cultivation and crops if planets 
involved are upward looking) 

Malefic Yoga: He may lose land and wealth to others. His 
crops and cultivation may get stolen or destroyed. 

4 th Lord in 5 th 

Benefic Yoga: The mother will be good and rule the family. 
She will be religious and having good character. The progeny 
will also be prospectus. 

Malefic Yoga: Mother may lose or may face problems 
with wealth and money and may be resort to evil acts. Progeny 
may be disturbed in their progress. 

4 th Lord in 6 th 

Benefic Yoga: Maternal uncle will have status in the 
society. Linking 6 th lord to ascendant may cause trouble to native 
due to diseases and enemies and his uncle may stay in the 
native's house. Mother may have problems of ill health and 
name in the society. 

Malefic Yoga: Maternal uncle may face problems and 
mother may face danger to life. Native however will suffer due 
to linking of Lagna to 6 th house. With the bad effects of Karaka 
the native may also loose property and with other house linking 
he may get problems of properties involving the persons or 
matter related to those houses and planets 

4 th Lord in 7 th 

Benefic Yoga: It indicates luck and happiness to native. 
The in-laws may own properties. If this happens to be movable 
sign he may gain through property deals and education. 

(In the example horoscope, lord of 4 th and 7 th 
Mercury is in 7 th in his exalted position; the native is 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 59 



leading a lucky and happy life. His in-laws possess lands 
and buildings) 

Malefic Yoga: Loss of mother and problems in travel may 
be experienced: 

(In the example horoscope, the same Mercury is with 
weak Moon who is also karaka for mother, hence he 
lost his mother. During one of his trip to foreign countries 
he had to face ill health problems) 

Imp: When there are multiple planets in a house with 
different qualities, mixed results are possible. 

4 th Lord in 8 th 

Benefit Yoga: Good results are not predicted, however 
there will be partial loss of lands and may suffer due to funds. 

Malefic Yoga: he may gain lands and may earn well. 

4 th lord in 9 th 

Benefic Yoga: inherited property gains, earnings through 
education and will have good comfort levels. 

Malefic Yoga: He may lose inherited property and may 
incur loss and discomfort. 

4 th Lord in 10 th 

Benefic Yoga: Excellent position with power and wealth. 

Malefic Yoga: Fall from position and loss of power and 
wealth. 

4 th LortJ in 11 th 

Benefic Yoga: gains and profits through significance of 
4 th house and through 4 th house persons. 

Malefic Yoga: Loss through above matters. 

4 th Lord in 12 th 

Benefic Yoga: He may overcome difficulties and save his 
lands and properties and his mother may be protected- 



60 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Malefic Yoga: he will lose all his property and may also 
lose his mother. 

Note: during Dasha of planets in 6 th 8 th and 12 th to 
any house that house's results will be negative. 

5 th Lord in 1 st 

Benefic Yoga: Profession of a power to punish others. He 
will have royal support and liked by all. With restricted progeny 
he will be kind to others. He may not have enemies. 

Malefic Yoga: He may be deprived of issues. He may be 
cruel and worship evil spirits 

5 th Lord in 2 nd 

Benefic Yoga: He may have big family. He will be intelligent 
and may have knowledge in occult sciences. He enjoys good 
food. Spouse will be affectionate. He earns money by blessings 
and cooperation of others. 

Malefic Yoga: He may struggle to maintain his family due 
to lack of necessities. He may face disputes in family. He may 
earn poorly through temple worship 

5 th Lord in 3 rd 

Benefic Yoga: He may have many children. He will befriend 
wealthy persons. His brother will be famous and wealthy. 

Malefic Yoga: He may have problems with progeny and 
may develop disputes with others. His brother may be unhelpful 
to him 

5 th Lord in 4 th 

Benefic Yoga: Native may have restricted number of 
progeny and they will earn livelihood with hard-work. 

Malefic Yoga; It may cause native problems in having 
progeny. With a bit of benefic influence there could be female 
progeny and male progeny may face longevity problems. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 61 



5 th Lord in 5 th 

Benefic Yoga: it indicates good results for children. The 
native may be blessed with divine grace. 

Malefic Yoga: Children may suffer and difficulties in life. 
Native may resort to evil deeds. 

5 th Lord in 6 th 

Benefic Yoga: There could be dispute with his progeny. 
Native's uncle may be famous and wealthy. With female influence 
of the planets and stars he may get married within the family 
relations. 

Malefic Yoga: He may have progeny problems and 
problems from the authorities. Supported by a few benefics he 
may go in for adoption within relation and he may suffer with 
disease. 

5 th Lord in 7 th 

Benefic Yoga: His progeny may have foreign residence. 
Native will be fortunate and famous. He will be rich and lucky. 

(In the example horoscope the native's 7 th house 
has own lord exalted in it. The native is lucky and is also 
considerably rich. He is known for his efficient work in 
the professional circle) 

Malefic Yoga: With malefic yoga progeny loss is indicated. 

5 th Lord in 8 th 

Benefic Yoga: Progeny of the native face difficulties. Native 
may be irreligious. 

Malefic Yoga: He may not even be benefited by adopted 
progeny. With a benefic influence he may adopt a child. 

5 th Lord in 9 th 

Benefic Yoga: His father will be famous. Native will be 
fortunate in acquiring wealth. 



62 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Malefic Yoga: Misfortunes and displeasure of deities. 

5 th Lord in 10 th 

Benefic Yoga: Native performs meritorious deeds and will 
undertake charitable work. 

Malefic Yoga: He will misappropriate funds of religious 
institutions. He will commit sinful acts. He may take up a low 
level profession of lesser income. 

5 th Lord in 11 th 

Benefic Yoga: He may gain through children; He will have 
success in undertakings and get supported by wealthy people. 

Malefic Yoga: The above results may be reversed. If there 
is some benefic influence he may gain little. 

5 th Lord in 12 th 

Benefic Yoga: He may have bed comforts. He may 
renounce material comforts and take up the path of salvation. 
He may be deprived of progeny pleasures which may cause 
dejection. 

Malefic Yoga: He may not succeed in his efforts in the 
path of self-realization and he may not enjoy the marital life. 

(The progeny matters are to be seen from 5 th house, 
its lord and karaka. Stronger points help him good 
progeny.) 

6* h Lord in 1 st 

Benefic Yoga: Native will be brave and will be in a 
commanding position in military or police. He may be in an 
authoritative position. His uncle may live with him. 

Malefic Yoga: The native may not have power or strength 
and he may be sick. He may find hard ships and humiliation in 
profession. He may have rift with uncle. 



Classical Naadi Systems; Dhruva Naadi based -Setya Jaataka 63 

6 th Lord in 2 nd 

Benefic Yoga: Quarrel in family, loss due to theft, defects 
in face, stammering 

Malefic Yoga: Early death of wife, with multiple malefic 
influence involving respective karakas related matter may not 
materialize. He may starve with hunger. 

6 th lord in 3 rd 

Benefic Yoga: enmity with brother and his brother will be 
close to maternal uncle. Native may resort to quarrels and/or 
brother may be diseased. 

Malefic Yoga: Native may be deprived of siblings 

6 th lord in 4 th 

Benefic Yoga: Native may have old house. His education 
may suffer. His mother may be sick. Uncles may pursue 
agriculture. He may resort to frequent changes in residence 
and may have misunderstanding with mother 

Malefic Yoga: Living in poverty having low level jobs. 
Mother may be subjected to questionable character. Miserable 
life may lead even to get arrested. 

6 th Lord in 5 th 

Benefic Yoga: He may be adopted by his uncle. He may 
have wealth and fame. 

Malefic Yoga: He may face problems due to ill health and 
danger to life of progeny. 

6 th Lord in 6 th 

Benefic Yoga: If karaka of 6 th is strong, his maternal uncle 
will be fortunate. His cousins will progress. The signficator of 
6 th if joins Lagna lord the native may be in good position in 
military or such related services with good fortune. 

Malefic Yoga: He may face enmity factors. 



64 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

6 th lord in 7 th 

Benefic Yoga: Good for maternal uncle, Native may marry 
the daughter of maternal uncle and uncle may rule him. His 
maternal uncle may stay in foreign country. 

Malefic Yoga: Early death of wife or separation from wife 
is indicated. 

(Note if there is mixed yoga, the results are to be 
derived logically and similarly other results of planet 
conjunction can be derived) 

6 th lord in 8 th 

Benefic Yoga: Native will have medium life. 

Malefic Yoga: He may face troubles and dangers and will 
be sick throughout life. 

(Note: in astrology 6 th lord going to 8 th house is 
considered as Vipareeta raja yoga for material benefits) 

(In the example horoscope: 6 th lord is in 8 th and it 
has the association of 2 nd and 9 th lord and Rahu is also 
associated. Apart from this there is an exchange of 
Venus as lord of 3 rd and 8 th with 2 nd and 9 th lord. This 
makes Sun to get linked with 8 th lord also. Here the 
principle of Vipareeta raja yoga worked for him however 
the effect of 9 th /rouse and 8 th house both operated. 
There was steep increase in salary and and higher post 
was granted during Sun bhukti in Jupiter Dasha. Yet 
this is a medium life only) 

Important: All house results are attributed to Lagna 
and relationship to Lagna. 4 th house mother 6 th house 
uncles 3 rd house brother effects are not considered as 
Lagna to derive the results but their effect to native 
alone are discussed here 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 65 

6 th lod in 9 th 

Benefic Yoga: Father may have a legal profession. There 
may be difference of opinion with father. Good fortune for 
maternal uncle. Native may be benefited through cousins. 

Malefic Yoga: Reversal of above results. 

6 th lord in 10 th 

Benefic Yoga: Native may resort to unethical deeds but 
poses to be fair. 

Malefic Yoga: He may get into low profile or jobless and 
lead a miserable life. 

6 th lord in 11 th 

Benefic Yoga: Elder brother will be in a good position of 
authority 

Malefic Yoga: He will be sick and suffers with poverty 

6 th lord in 12 th 

Benefic Yoga: Native may spend money for bad things. 

Malefic Yoga: He may go to hell after death. 

(Here also materially there could be a Vipareeta yoga 
which needs to be considered for native) 

7 th Lord in 1 

Benefic Yoga: There will be regular travel on job. He may 
get married to a woman brought up in same house. He may 
seek women's company and he will be lustful in nature. 

Malefic Yoga: There will be reversal of above results. 

7 th lord in 2 nd 

Benefic Yoga: He may get wealth through woman. 

Malefic Yoga: He may lose his wife early or his wife may 
be blamed for her character. Native may eat bad foods and this 
may also a period of death for him. 



66 Roots of Naad't Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

7 th lord in 3 rd 

Benefic Yoga: Brother may prosper in foreign country 

Malefic Yoga: Brother will suffer misfortunes and native 
may enjoy with brother's wife. 7 th lord is lust lord of native. In 
weak 3 rd house (brother) aspect 7 th house to 3 rd , the wife of 
brother, its 7 th lord is fulfilment lord in her house of lust. 

7 th lord in 4 th 

Benefic Yoga: Happiness to wife and may beget children. 
Native may go to foreign. Native will have good education and 
comforts. 

Malefic Yoga: Reversal of above good effects. 

7 th lord in 5 th 

Benefic Yoga: Early marriage with an able woman from 
rich family 

Malefic Yoga: He may lack progeny prospects or his wife 
may get a child by other man. Boss of the native may be troubled 
at foreign land. 

7 th lord in 6 th 

Benefic Yoga: Marriage may be in the maternal uncle 
relations. He may have two wives. He may be troubled by 
diseases. 

Malefic Yoga: He will suffer from diseases and karaka 
also being weak; wife may be abducted by enemies. 

7 th lord in 7 th 

Benefic Yoga: Native will be powerful and attractive. He 
will have pleasures from many women. Wife hails form good 
family who brings wealth to him, 

(in the example horoscope native's 7 th lord Mercury 
is in own house 7 th exalted and is with 5 th lord Moon. No 
doubt the native married to a girl from a good family 
and of-course she did not bring any wealth but his life 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 67 



progressed by self-efforts through profession. He did 
have much female company) 

Malefic Yoga: He may misuse his powers and he may 
have pleasures from lower level woman. He may lose wealth 
due to wife. 

7 th lord in 8 th 

Benefic Yoga: Native may face danger or death at a 
distance place. His wife will also be short lived. 

Malefic Yoga: The life span will be further shortened in 
the above results. He may not get married or there could be 
physical separation due to ill health of wife 

7 th Lord in 9 th 

Benefic Yoga: Native may become wealthy in foreign 
country or his father may stay in foreign country. Native may 
do virtuous deeds in foreign land. Father in law may be wealthy 
and noted person. 

Malefic Yoga: He may lose his father early and may lose 
wealth. 

7 th lord in 10 th 

Benefic Yoga: wife will be cooperative; he will be employed 
in foreign related job. He may be travelling very often. He may 
be helped by his wife's earning. 

Malefic Yoga: reversal of good effects 

7 th Lord in 11 th 

Benefic Yoga: He may have many wives or he may enjoy 
with many women. 

Malefic Yoga: He may lose many of his wives and one will 
survive him. He may be put to hard work 

7 th Lord in 12 th 

Benefic Yoga: He will enjoy many women for short period. 
His death may occur in a foreign land. 



68 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Malefic Yoga: He may not have marital pleasure and may 
have illusions of joy with other woman. 

Wife's death: 

7 th Lord, Venus, and their dispositor if all are strong, the 
wife may die during the 3 rd round of Saturn. If they are of 
ordinary strength she may die during 2 nd round of Saturn and if 
they are weak she will die during 1 st round of Saturn. 

We will verify this principle with an example as shown below 

Birth date 15-1-1949: 7:40 PM Mysore: 





Ra7 






\ SaR12 S\ / 

/\ As 22 yV 

/ Ke7 7V1 Ra7 \ 
X / 1( ^V S 

8>< Ma 15 )U2 

/ 9 \ Mo 20 /11\ 

/ Ve 9 \ / \ 
/ Ju 20 \/ \ 


1 


Natal Chart 
Rashi (Dl) 


Moll 
As 22 


Su 1 
MalS 
Mo 20 


SaR12 


Ve9 
Ju20 




Ke7 





The Native got married in Februry 1976. 

7 th Lord Saturn is is 2 nd and it is in aspect to one of his 
house that is ff h there by it also strengthens his own house 7 th . 
There is an aspect of Jupiter to Saturn with the effect of Venus. 
Saturn also has the aspect ofRahu. Therefore he has ordinary 
strength. 

Venus is in 6 th house and with Jupiter and is having aspect 
ofRahu. This is also of medium strength 

Sun dispositor of Saturn is in 7 th and is with a friendly planet 
Mars and having Moon aspect He is having good strength 

Jupiter dispositor of Venus is also having good strength 
being in own house. But it has the aspect ofRahu. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based- Satya Jaataka 69 



Therefore all the 4 planets gain only medium strength. The 
native must lose his wife during 2 nd round of Saturn 

Native had 2 nd round of Saturn commenced during 
1978 in Leo. In this round when Saturn reached Taurus 
that is during Oct 2000 the native lost his iv/fe. 

Widowhood: 

Mars or Rahu placed in 2 nd , 7 th or 8 th house woman may 
become widow: If they are in 4 th mother may become widow: 

(Here slight amendment is needed, Mars must have 
Rahu link that is either Mars must aspect Rahu or Rahu 
must aspect Mars with its 5 th or 9 th aspect) 

With this amendment we can verify the above rule with an 
example horoscope. 







juris 


Ke9 


\ Ma 16 /\ Ke 9 / 
jK AS27 X«"R15 

^y\ MoS /$ 

/ Ra9 \ / \ 
/ Ve21 \/ \ 




Natal Chart 
Rashi (Dl) 


Sa21 
As 27 


MoS 


Ma 16 


Ra9 
Ve21 


Sa4 
Me 13 







It is a female horoscope and Mars is in 2 nd having aspect of 
Rahu from 6 th house resulting in widowhood. 



Timing of Marriage: 

7 th lord being strong and Venus is placed in upachaya houses 
(3, 6, 10, 11) with full strength during the first revolution of 
Jupiter marriage will take place. If- 7 th lord and Venus are of 
moderate strength marriage may take place during the 2 nd 
revolution of Jupiter. If both are devoid of strength he may 



70 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



marry during 3 rd revolution of Jupiter. If they are extremely 
weak there may not be marriage at all or the marital life will be 
miserable. 

We will verify this with an example chart: 

Example: 



As 21 


KelO 


JuR5 




\ KelO /\ / 
JuR 5 y^ As 21 X*° 

/ X / Su5\ 
/ \/ RalOMal5\ 




Natal Chart 
Rashi (Dl) 


Sa22 








Ve8 


Su5 

Ra 10 
Ma 15 


Me 25 
Mo 25 



In the example horoscope 7 th lord Mercury gets Stregnth of 
98 and Venus gets stregnth of 110 but Venus is not in upachaya. 
The marriage must get delayed. Marriage took place in 3 rd round 
when transit Jupier met Venus in Scopio and havng 7 th aspect 
to Natal Jupiter 

(P.S. This two example of transit of Saturn and Jupiter is a 
clue to fine tune Bhrighu Naadi Principle of timing the events.) 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 71 



8 th House: 

8 th House is importantly seen for Longevity. Sage gives more 
details relating to this instead of giving the effects of this lord in 
different houses. One of the most important factors he indicates 
is the planetary contribution to study the longevity. This being 
the most effective part the same is explained with the method 
of calculating the number of years each planet contributes under 
different conditions. Each planet will contribute the number of 
years as mentioned in the first column of the top row being its 
exalted place. In its debilitated place it contributes 50% of its 
exalted place years. In between from Exalted to Debilitated 
place proportionate age is computed in decreasing order and 
from debilitated place again proportionate age is calculated 
increasing order till exalted place. 

Further three deductions as shown in the left hand column 
is to be made based on the positions in the birth chart. 

4 th column deduction is purely based on its position from 
Lagna. 

After all these deduction we get the number of years 
contributed by each planet. 

The following tables will be self-explanatory. 



Sun 


Dasha Years Contributed By Planet 




Ari 


Tau 


Gem 


Can 


Leo 


Vir 


Lib 


Sco 


Sag 


Cap 


Aqu 


Pis 




19 


17.42 


15.83 


14.25 


12.67 


11.08 


9.5 


11.08 


12.67 


14.25 


15.83 


17.42 


1 


If in enemy sign and not retro 


30% 


























2 


If combust and not retro 


30% 


























3 


Conjunction of enemy planets 


30% 




























Balance 




























4 


If placed in the following places 




In 12 th 


11 th 


10 th 


gth 


8 th 


7 th 




100% 


50% 


33.33% 


25.00% 


20.00% 


16.66% 



^1 



30 

o 
o 

o? 



Moo 


Dasha Years Contributed By Planet 




Tau 


Gem 


Can 


Leo 


Vir 


Lib 


SCO 


Sag 


Cap 


Aqu 


Pis 


Ari 




25.00 


22.92 


20.83 


18.75 


16.67 


14.58 


12.50 


14.50 


16.67 


18.75 


20.83 


22.92 


1 


If in enemy sign and not retro 


30% 


























2 


If combust and not retro 


30% 


























3 


Conjunction of enemy planets 


30% 




























Balance 


































In 12 th 


11 th 


10 th 


9* 


8* 


7th 


4 


If placed in the following places 




F Moo-50% 


25% 


17% 


12% 


10% 


8% 




Else 100% 


50% 


33% 


25% 


20% 


17% 



Note: F Moon means Shukla Paksha Chandra 



0) 

5 

I 

o 

o 

I 

3 

CD 
W 

1" 

CO 

*— *. 

c: 



Mar 


Dasha Years Contributed By Planet 




Cap 


Aqu 


Pis 


Ari 


Tau 


Gem 


Can 


Leo 


Vir 


Lib 


Sco 


Sag 




15 


13.75 


12.5 


11.25 


10 


8.75 


7.5 


8.75 


10 


11.25 


12.5 


13.75 


1 


If in enemy sign and not retro 


30% 


























2 


If combust and not retro 


30% 


























3 


Conjunction of enemy planets 


30% 




























Balance 




























4 


If placed in the following places 




In 12 th 


11 th 


10 th 


9* 


8 th 


7th 


. 


10% 


50% 


33.33% 


25% 


20% 


16.66%- 




Mer 


Dasha Years Contributed By Planet 




Vir 


Lib 


Sco 


Sag 


Cap 


Aqu 


Pis 


Ari 


Tau 


Gem 


Can 


Leo 




12 


11 


10 


9 


8 


7 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


1 


If in enemy sign and not retro 


30% 


























2 


If combust and not retro 


30% 


























3 


Conjunction of enemy planets 


30% 




























Balance 


































In 12 th 


11 th 


10 th 


9th 


8 th 


7th 


4 


If placed in the following places 




Ben-50% 


25% 


17% 


12% , 


10% 


8% 




Else 100% 


50% 


33%, 


25% 


20% 


17% 



o 

CO 
to 

O' 

01 

I 

01 

f 

<n 
■--•» 
CD 

3 

5 

0> 

o* 

cu 

03 
CD 
Q. 
I 

CO 

Q> 

<? 

01 



01 
01 

sr 

01 



CO 



Jup 


Dash a Years Contributed By Planet 




Can 


Leo 


Vir 


Lib 


5co 


Sag 


Cap 


Aqu 


Pis 


Ari 


Tau 


Gem 




15 


13.75 


12.5 


11.25 


10 


8.75 


7.5 


8.75 


10 


11.25 


12.5 


13.75 


1 


If in enemy sign and not retro 


30% 


























2 


If combust and not retro 


30% 








■ 


















3 


Conjunction of enemy planets 


30% 




























Balance 




























4 


If placed in the following places 




In 12 th 


11* 


10 th 


gtfi 


8 th 


7 th 




50% 


25% 


16.66% 


12% 


10% 


8% 






Ven 


Dasha Years Contributed By Planet 




Pis 


Ari 


Tau 


Gem 


Can 


Leo 


Vir 


Lib 


Sco 


Sag 


Cap 


Aqu 




21 


19.25 


17.5 


15.75 


14 


12.25 


10.5 


12.25 


14 


15.75 


17.5 


19.25 


1 


If in enemy sign and not retro 


30% 


























2 


If combust and not retro 


30% 


























3 


Conjunction of enemy planets 


30% 




























Balance 




























4 


If placed in the following places 




In 12 th 


11 th 


10 th 


gtn 


8 th 


yth 




50% 


25% 


16.66% 


12% 


10% 


8% 



o 
o 

sr 

o 

0) 

O 

o 

3 

CD 

S" 



Sat 


Dasha Years Contributed By Planet 




Lib 


Sco 


Sag 


Cap 


Aqu 


Pis 


Ari 


Tau 


Gem 


Can 


Leo 


Vir 


■ =»< 


20 


18.3 


16.7 


15 


13.3 


11.7 


10 


11.7 


13.3 


15 


16.7 


18.3 


1 


If in enemy sign and not retro 


30% 


























2 


If combust and not retro 


30% 


























3 


Conjunction of enemy planets 


30% 




























Balance 


























. 


4 


If placed in the following places 




In 12* 


11 th 


10* 


gth 


8 th 


7th 




100% 


50% 


33.33% 


25% 


20% 


16.66% 



o 

0> 



a> 
ai 

f 
a 

01 
Q. 

Cr 
0) 
Co 
0) 

a 
I 

CO 

u 

a? 
aT 






76 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Further the following rules are to be applied. 

Sat - Sun - Mar Any One in Lagna or 5 th or 9 th Aspect to 
Rahu in Lagna, follow the computation below: 

1. Count the remaining Padas from Lagna degrees to 

complete 108 Padas. 

2. Divide this by 108 

3. Multiply this product by years given by SATURN/ 
MARS/SUN as the case may be 

4. The resultant figure is to be deducted from the 
Longevity derived by that Planet 

5. If more than one Malefic, the planet nearest to Lagna 
need only to be considered. 

6. Out of Jup, Ven, Mer, Full Moon either conjunct or 
aspect ABOVE PLANET only 50% of above to be 
deducted 

Example: Suppose SUN is in Lagna 

Lagna: Above 25:22:00 Mithuna: From Mesha 

Mesha 9 Navamsa, Vrishabha 9 Navamsa 

In Mithuna it is in 7.7 Navamsa: 

Total 25.7 Navamsa is Over: Balance is 

108-2S.7 = 82.3 Navamsa: 

Therefore 82.3/108 * Sun =19 Years 

14.47 Years 

Is To Be Deducted: From Sun: 

1. Planet Enmity factor is to be considered 

2. Any two Enemy planets if conjunct within 5 deg orb is to be 
taken into consideration. Deduction is applicable to only 
one 



Ciassical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadl based - Satya Jaataka 77 



3. The strongest among them will not lose their age factor 
while the weak planet will lose 30%. Natural order of 
strength shown below: 

I. Malefic: Rah, Ket, Sat, Mar, Sun, 

II. Benefic: Jup, Ven, Moo, Mer 

Apart from this we should also consider the association of 
enemy planet and aspect of malefic planets at the rate of 30% 
each reduction. 

There are some more rules with regard to retrograde and 
Amsha positions. This can be studied exclusively in Hora 
Shastram of Varahamihiracharya. However with the simple 
principles an example is shown for approximation of longevity. 

Example horoscope: 





Ma 6 


Ke23 




\ /\ Su29 / 

X 11 / As 2 \9X 

12X Ve 7 X 8 Ra 23 
/ \ Me 11 / \ 

/ Ma 6 1 y\J Ju4 \ 
k'o 11 *jSc \ca Sa 13 

A X<Mo 17 




Natal Chart 
Rashi (Dl) 




As2 

Ve7 

Me 11 




Su29 


Ra23 


Ju4 


Sa 13 

Mo 17 



In the above horoscope: Sun in Sagittarius he gets 12.67 
years but being in 12 th to Lagna loses all and contribution is 

Moon is in Virgo and gets 16.67 and being 9 th he gets less 
25% that is he gets 12.5 years and further 30% is deducted 
due to aspect of Ketu. Therefore he gets only 8-75 years. 

Mars is being in Aries gets 11.25 years no deduction 

Mercury in Capricorn gets 8 years but having Ketu aspect 
30% is reduced and he gets 5.6 years 



78 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Jupiter is in Libra and he gets 11.25 years Jupiter in 10 th 
therefore he gets 83% of the above. That is 9.33 years but he 
has the aspect of Mars a malefic he gets only 70% . That is 
6.53 years 

Venus is in Capricorn he gets 17.5 again Ketu aspect will 
make him give only 70% that is he gives 12.00 years 

Saturn gets in Virgo 18.3 and being in 9 th he gets 75% of 
this. That is 13.72. He is associated with Moon enemy planet 
30% deduction and again there is Ketu aspect 30% deduction. 
So gets only 40% of 13.72. That is 5.49 years. 

Total planetary contribution is 49.62 which is short 
life. Indeed the native died before reaching 40 years of 
age. 

(Note: Exception to scholarly claims, this method or 
any other methods of calculating longevity is only 
approximation. It is not within the purview of 
mathematical formula to precisely arrive at longevity.) 

Balarishta and other 8 th house related matters are discussed 
which are available in most of the traditional texts. However 8 th 
house is a most important house to be studied which reveals 
many secrets of life. This is invariably combined with Lagna and 
10 th house to understand the Karma effects. 



9 th Lord in 1 st 

Benefic Yoga: Property through self-efforts. 

Malefic Yoga: Loss of property 
9 th Lord in 2 nd 

Benefic Yoga: Gain from father's property 

Malefic Yoga: Loss of inherited property 
9 th Lord in 3 rd 

Father will be moderately rich 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 79 

9 th Lord in 4 th 

Native earns through land of self or father. Mother will also 
be rich. 

9 th lord in 5 th 

Native's father is famous or native's son may be noted. If 
5 th lord is in ascendant even native will be famous 

9 th lord in 6 th 

III health to father and if malefic yoga is also present father 
lose his properties to enemies 

9 th Lord in 7 th 

Father may go to foreign countries. Native may do 
meritorious deeds in foreign. With a malefic yoga father may 
lose wealth and may end his life in foreign country, 

9 th Lord in 8 th 

Native may lose his father early and loss of inherited 
property. With a malefic yoga native may gain moderately. 

9 th Lord in 9 th 

All fortune bestowed upon native. 

9 th Lord in 10 th 

Native may do charities and engage in religious activities 
but may not be wealthy. He will have good status in profession. 
Malefic yoga will reverse the results. 

9 th Lord in 11 th 

Native may gain wealth and even father may gain wealth. 
9 th Lord in 12 th 

Loss of wealth 



80 Roots of Naacfi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

10 th house is of profession or Karma. 

The 10 th house strength and its lord's strength along with 
Karaka planets of 10 th needs to be assessed 

A 10 th lord placed in good houses that is Kona or Kendra 
and also well placed in Amsha while the 10 th house has benefic 
planets and the Karaka is well placed in Rasi and Amsha. Very 
good professional life can be predicted. 

1 st house represents the life matters. Link of 10 th lord to it 
indicate professions relating to body matters. Like physical 
instructor or yoga teacher or even a healer. This depends upon 
nature of planet. 

2 nd house represents wealth matters and 10 th link may 
indicate profession of wealth related. Detailed study of Karaka 
planets and lords will indicate the nature of such profession 

3 rd house represents communications and short travel, the 
10 th link indicates profession relating to such matters and the 
karaka planets will give more details of such profession 

4 th house relates to assets and mind, therefore profession 
may relate to Land building and vehicle and psychology 

5 th house relates to authority and advising. The profession 
may relate to such matters 

6 th house relates to efforts and also violence, this may 
include military, army etc., or it may relate to hard works 

7 th house relates to business and foreign link of 10 th may 
indicate this. 

8 th house relates to secret affairs - irreligious link may 
give job in secret services and it may relate to foreign. 

9 th house relates to charitable activities and educational 
trusts & 10 th link ensures such activities. 

10 th relates to Karma or auspicious activities 

11 th relates to gaining factor, good for business 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 81 

12 th relates to loss and expenditure and asylums. There 
could be loss in profession displacement or it can be job relating 
to asylums, 

6, 8, 12 houses are called Dusthanas and therefore the 
native may find enmity, difficulties and displacements etc. 
especially when there is a malefic yoga. 

11 th Lord in 1 st 

Native earns wealth through yoga planet involved in this. 
Malefic yoga reverses the results 

11 th Lord in 2 nd 

Earning money through money transactions will be 
successful if good yoga planet is involved else there will be 
obstructions in the same. 

11 th Lord in 3 rd 

Native may earn wealth with the help of his brothers or 
through the matter relating to 3 rd house 

11 th Lord in 4 th 

Gains through lands agriculture assets and mother- Loss 
and disputes if malefic yoga 

11 th Lord in 5 th 

Gains through children and through blessing of deity 

11 th Lord in 6 th 

Gain in litigations and from partners. Reverse in malefic 
yoga 

11 th Lord in 7 th 

Gains from woman or from wife or from foreign country 

11 th Lord in 8 th 

Loss and difficulties and if malefic yoga there may be initial 
gains and sudden loss at a later stage 



82 Roots of Neadl Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

11 th Lord in 9 th 

Gains through father, preacher and religious and charitable 
activities 

11 th Lord in 10 th 

Gains from trade and profession and through religious rites 
11 th Lord in 11 th 

Rich and with malefic yoga loss 

11 th lord in 12 th 

Native may loose and spend away his earnings - it also 
indicate danger to elder brother 

12 th House: 

Similar to 8 th , this house has more malefic effects as far as 
material matters are concerned. 

Any lord posited in 12 th will lose the benefic effect of the 
houses he owns. 

On the contrary if the 12 th lord is placed in good houses 
that is Kendra or Kona the 12 th lordship will give good effects 
while the Kendra and Kona house will lose their strength to give 
good results. 

If a lord goes to 12 th house the signification of the houses 
owned by that lord will be lost in case of material matters and 
in personal and living matters pertaining to that house either 
face danger to life or death like situations. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 83 



If 12 th lord goes to any house the signification of that house 
get spoiled while the 12 th lord gives good effect of his 12 th house 
if the matter in that house is in harmony to his house matters 
but equally give negative effects of the house where he is posited. 

In deriving the Bhava Phala, the friendship/enmity factor 
between the two lords, their disposition in relation to Janma 
Nakshatra, the harmony between their karaka Bhava are all to 
be considered. If there exists enmity factor between two planets 
while their significations either natural or lordship matters are 
in harmony in those matters positive predictions are to be 
derived. Logical approach shall be nearer to correctness than 
generalized selective dictums. Points to be considered are: 1) 
benefic/malefic nature of planets, 2) their lordship disposition 
and star disposition to Janma Nakshatra 3) the relationship of 
this planet as benefic/malefic and by its Karakatwa to the specific 
matter of the house under examination 4) the compatibility of 
the two houses under confluence 5) the yoga and Avayoga 
status of the lords under consideration. 

This concludes the pancha siddantika of Sage Satyacharya. 
After this the Sage proceeds to discuss the effect of Dasha 
bhukti. 

The Nakshatra Siddhanta is predominant in deciding the 
Phala of Dasha and bhukti. 



84 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Section IV 



Dasha Bhukfr Phala 

All the principles like House strength, planetary strengths 
enumerated earlier in Siddhantas are applicable in deciding the 
effect of Dasha lords Phala. 

1 Wherever auspicious results are being produced by 
the Planet in the above cases, it is based again on 
the shadbala of the planet. If the planet has full 
strength the results will be very good and if it is of 
moderate strength it will be moderately good and 
where the planet is weak the good results will be 
meager. In case of bad results, a strong planet may 
reduce the effects of bad whereas the weak planet 
worsens the bad effect. 

2 To read the effects of Dasha lords the following 
qualitative assessment should be made: 

1. The natural qualities of the planets. 

2. The sign qualities where the planet is based its dignity 
in that sign whether Exalted, Debilitated or Retrograde 

3. Its benefic or malefic disposition as lord of house/houses 

4. Benefic or malefic nature as per Nakshatra Siddhanta 

5. Sum effects of its benefic or malefic in Divisional 
disposition 

6. Its strength in motional direction (Ucchabhilashi 
(towards exaltation) / Neechabhilashi (towards 
debilitation) and the combust positions and the speed 
of planets (ati Chara etc.) 

7. In the descending order of the strength each planet 
operates as Bhukti lord in every Dasha. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 85 



Considering these factor Sages gives a unique method of 
results of Dasha lords when placed in different houses. 

In every house the conjunction of the lord of the house 
with Dasha lord is taken into consideration. These 
combinations are selectively found in horoscopes and there 
is no clue to the effects of Dasha lord if placed alone in a 
particular house. 

This is the observation normally expressed in the translated 
texts. I shall definitely make efforts in the course of these 
delineations as to why this special feature of conjunction of 
lord with Dasha lord is included and explore the secret 
behind it enabling application of this rule universally to all 
horoscopes. (Attention is drawn to italic sentences in the 
following paragraphs) 

We shall restrict ourselves to be brief to save space for 
more information. 

Firstly the ascendant lord disposition is to be considered to 
get the overall effect in the capacity of Dasha lord applying 
the above rules. This will establish the favorable or 
unfavorable results of first house. Naturally, if he is placed 
in his own house, one of the points for getting favorable 
results is fulfilled subject to other conditions of pancha 
Siddhanta. 

In the absence of more number of beneficial dispositions 
the Dasha of Ascendant lord may not yield desirable good 
results and may encounter sufferings* The nature of such 
suffering will relate to the house positions predominant in 
the divisional chart especially Navamsa chart. This rule can 
also be applied to Ascendant lord when favorably disposed 
to ascertain the sources of such desirable good effects. 
Such sources and its effects are ascribed to the lord of that 
house in divisional chart during its sub period. 

Note: if the sign lord where the Bhava lord is posited and the 
Bhava lord both are strong, the Bhava will flourish. Any one 



86 Roots of Naadi Astrology; A Comprehensive Study 



of them is strong average good results. This is one of the 
rules for Bhava analysis. If the Bhava lord is in his own house 
this lord gets two good effects: to flourish his Bhava that is 
being in his own house and 2 nd being sign lord posited in his 
own sign. A lord being in 6 th 8 th 12 th position to the Bhava 
lord either in Rasi or Amsha chakra then also the lord is 
considered weak. Applying this strategy the Sage delineates 
good effects when the Dasha lord placed In a Bhava 
considering its strength independently to differentiate the 
results. 

This rule is applied in the following chart; "Any one of 
them being weak' considers that they establish 6, 8, and 12 
relation either in Rasi or Amsha. "Both are weak" represents 
the weak Bhava and its lord and also the Dasha lord. 

All the good effects of 2 nd house is indicated when thel st 
lord is placed in 2 nd along with 2 nd lord ( that is if the 2 nd lord is 
having stregnth). If the ascendant lord relates himself with 6 th , 
8 th or 12 th position to 2 nd lord either through rasi or divisional 
chart or if he is weak by any of the rules aforesaid, then the 
good effects of the 2 nd house is considerably reduced. 

Along with the 3 rd lord ( or if the 3 rd and 1 st lord both dignified 
with strength) good effects of third house can be experienced 
during the Ascendant lord. If either of them is weak, the good 
effects are considerably reduced and especially if they happen 
to be in 6 th 8 th and 12 th position as aforesaid the bad effects are 
experienced with due confluence of relatively bad resources. 

In 4 th house along with 4 th lord good comfort levels are to 
be predicted and if both are weak contrary results are produced. 
Either of them when weak ordinary good effects is to be 
predicted. 

Along with 5 th lord in 5 th house the ascendant lord during 
his period bestow good results pertaining to 5 th matters. When 
both are weakly disposed bad results and either of them when 
disposed weak ordinary effects of 5 th house is experienced. 

(Note; the natural zodiac house significations; that is 5 th house 
ruled by Sun represents government and the Sun represents 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 87 

father, all these are considered while considering the 5 th 
house.)] 

Being with sixth lord in sixth house the ascendant lord will 
give bad effects of 6 th house like litigations, quarrels and poverty 
etc., If the lord of 6 th is weak and debilitated while the ascendant 
lord is strong the above effects are reversed. 

Lagna lord being in 7 th along with 7 th lord, Journey, 
celebrations, etc., is indicated by Ascendant Dasha lord. In the 
event of ascendant lord or 7 th lord rendering weak opposite 
results are expected. 

Lagna lord in 8 th along with 8 th Lord the ascendant lord 
gives very bad results. 

Strongly pleaced ascendant lord in 9 th along with 9* will 
render good effects of 9 th house. A weak Dasha lord will render 
bad resutls of 9 th house. 

In 10 th the Lagna lord along with 10 th house (that when the 
10 th lord is strong), the fame, and progress in profession and if 
ascendant lord is weak then he will get reverse resutls. 

Gains are indicated by Ascendant lord when placed in 11* 
along with 11 th lord and if he is weak, loss will be indicated. 

In 12 th along with 12 th lord loss, Lagna lord gives unhappy 
life and foreign place are indicated 

There is hardly any difference between the Bhava Phala 
except that here we have to see the strength of both house lord 
and the lord occupying that house. This along with rules for 
Dasha analysis is to be combined to arrive at the final result of 
the results of Dasha. 

I have given only general idea about the concpet of as to 
how to read dasha phala basing on the position of dasha lord. 
Througout the text the Sage elobrately gives many results of 
each bhava having gained strength by placement of its own 
lord and then associated by different dasha lords. The principle 
is the house and the dasha lord both must be strong to give 
good effects of the Bhava. 



88 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

In the above example birth star for Lagna cusp is 
Revathi. The Rahu Dasha falling 7 th Tara Dasha was not 
good for native. Jupiter Dasha as 8 th /8 th and Sun Bhukti 
as 4 th Tara Dasha was good, 

Rahu is posited in 8 th and is associated with 9 th lord 
and 2 nd lord Mars. The 6 th lord Sun who is also signficator 
of father is also associated with the Dasha lord Rahu. 
Sun aspects 2 nd house. Mars aspect 11 th house, 2 nd house 
and 3 rd house. Rahu aspects 12 th house, 4 th house. Native 
drifted from his educational career. He had bad friends 
and spent money of father creating trouble to father. 
His mother also struggled hard with worries about the 
native's career. During this period he was sent out of 
home and joined in Airforce. There also native could not 
stay long and somhow returned. Though these couple 
of months he earned money that is due to effect of 9 th 
house indicating government and also Sun who 
reprensets govet. Mars who is 9 th lord and also 2 nd lord 
having aspect on his own house, again made him to 
resume to studies during this Dasha. 

Jupiter Dasha lord of 1 and 10 posited in upachaya 
3 rd house has changed the course of life of native. Jupiter 
aspects 11 th house and 7 th house and also 9 th house. He 
also apsects 4 th lord 7 th lord, 5 th lord and 3 rd and 8 th lord. 
He got a job in foreign firm. However the placement of 
Jupiter in 3 rd which is vyaya sthana to 4 th and having a 
link to Moon which becomes a Maraka stana 2 nd to 4 th 
house and Jupiter himself as 10 th lord is a Maraka to 4 th 
house as 7 th lord. These have resulted in death of mother. 

The scribe has given examples applying the general 
principles and with greater precision if theese rules are applied 
with necessary modificaitons as per other classical texts this 
system will be very much useful. 

The Sage goes on to prescribe rules to determine the results 
of sub period lords. The duration part of sub period lords is 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based - Satya Jaataka 89 

same as conventional computation but the order of sub period 
is set in a unique way by considering the strength of the planets. 
In general the Bhukti lord will give results as follows subject to: 

If he is in own sign 

If he is in friendly sign 

If he is in exaltation sign 

If he is in trikona to his own house 

He will give results of houses owned and occupied by him. 

The result of the house in which he is transiting at the time 
his Bhukti period 

The nature of results will be: 

Bad results if he is a functional malefic according to 
assessment of Pancha Sidhhantika. 

Good results if he is functional benefic according to 
assessment of Pancha Sidhhantika. 

If he gains mixed effects the results will also be mixed. 

Most important point 

In this section the Sage propounds that the Dasha 
lord will not yield results in his own Bhukti according to 
his disposed nature but will continue to give the nature 
of results of previous Bhukti. 

This rule with half-baked essence is carried down to 
traditional astrology and is mis-interpreted to give an idea that 
Dasha lord will not give his results in his own Bhukti But the 
truth is Dasha lord will not give results in harmony with his 
nature during his Bhukti. In case if he gives then he will not 
continue to give the results according to his nature through the 
Bhukti lords. 

When there is a benefic results pushed through by Dasha 
lord the Bhukti lord even if entitled to give malefic results will 



90 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



be silent on malefic effects. There is a peculiar way: Dasha lord 
disposed to give benefic results if placed in the midst of malefic 
planets he tends to give malefic results at certain stage. On the 
contrary if he is a malefic Dasha lord if placed in the midst of 
benefic planets he is bound to give some good results at certain 
stage. 

If Dasha lord is a Maraka planet and in his Dasha the Bhukti 
lord representing 8 th house if operates will cause death of the 
native. If that Bhukti lord is a Maraka planet death may not 
take place. Dasha Bhukti lord representing vice versa of above 
houses also result in similar results. 

The Sage exemplifies his stand by an example 





Ju Me 
Mo Ma 




As 


5>C As Xl ^ 
XX XX Mo 

XX x x Ma 

6 X 12 • 

V\ Ml 
/ s\ y/io iX 




RashiChart 
Male Birth 





















Mo 


Me 


x\ Me xX 1 
/ Ve 6 /V 2 ) 

Vx /Y 1 

X x x 10 X 




Navamsa 
Chakra 










Ju 
Ma 




Ve 



Classical Naadi Systems: Dhruva Naadi based- Satya Jaataka 91 



Lagna Lord with 7 th and 10 th lord in 11 th 



7 th house is legal matters 



Jupiter is legal planet 



10 th is profession 



Mercury as Lagna lord indicates self 



Mercury is also 4 th lord indicating knowledge 



Mars is 11 th and 6 th lord 



Jupiter is with 6 th lord indicating litigation 



Mercury is writing 



Legal writing 



Jupiter transiting in 2 nd house Mercury 



Linking to Jupiter and Mars in Amsha 



Transit Jupiter is also having aspect of Natal Mars 



7 th house of Jupiter indicates foreign place 



4 th house indicates ocean 

In Navamsa Kanya has Venus indicate richness of the 4 th house 



4 th lord with 7 th lord in 11 th flourished country 



This indicates writing job in Law institution of a foreign country 



During Dasha of Mars and Bhukti of Jupiter and during 
gochara of Jupiter in Cancer the native will be appointed as 
Legal writer relating to foreign land and will earn money with 
gains, 

Please note that the Sage takes Lagna from Rashi 
chart and the position of Navasmsa is also considered 
from Rashi Lagna. That is Rashi tulya Navasmsa method. 

In Amsha Venus is in Kanya which is actually Kendra to Lagna. 
A Shubha planet being in Kendra to Lagna is a good sign. Though 
Venus is debilitated the effect is taken from Rashi Lagna. Thus 
when Jupiter transiting in Cancer there is a link of Jupiter and 
Mars in Scorpio in Amsha and in Rashi charts Mars aspects 
Jupiter in transit. In Mars Dasha in Moon Bhukti, the native 
loses much of his earnings. This is due to the fact that Moon is 



92 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

placed in Taurus which is actually 12 th to Mithuna Lagna. From 
12 th the Moon aspects 6 th house which Is house of enemies. For 
Dasha Lord the Bhukti lord is placed in 8 th place. Thus due to 
enemies he will lose the earnings. 

The Sage brings the effect of Dasha Bhukti phala by 
introducing the Amsha position of planets in relation to Rashi 
Lagna. 

The Sage has given in detail about the Dasha phala 
presuming that both the Dasha lord and the Bhava lord having 
strength, delineates the results. This is similar to Bhava phala 
which is enumerated earlier. The only difference is we need to 
assess both Dasha lord and Bhukti lords for their strength and 
then relate it to the Bhava where these periods lords indicate 
the houses. 

It would be simply repetition with little details of Dasha 
lords, which I feel will only add up to volume of the book being 
repetitive in nature. Therefore I conclude this work with due 
respect to the Sage and the legendary authors who have given 
us the English version of this monumental work. 



Classical Naadi System 

Chandra Kala Naadi 
Deva Keralam 



1800 divisions of 360 degrees, each division of 0:12:00 
minutes that makes 150 division of a sign is the smallest division 
stipulated in Chandra Kala Naadi, This is also known as Deva 
Keralam the name suggests its origin in southern part of India 
that is Kerala, This work has contribution by two authors Achyuta 
and Venkatesha comprising of total 8200 slokas. 

Unless the birth time is accurate to 48 seconds the Naadi 
Amsha cannot precisely be applied and verified with the results 
thereof. For this there are number of obstrutive components: 

First and foremost is the decision of Birth time - This is 
always debatable whether the birth is appearance of the head, 
cutting of umbilical cord or first breath or weeping of child or is 
it conception time and what not. Even if unanimously agreed 
upon one such component then the crooked clock menace 
differing in time from instrument to insturment and the very 
standard time and local time factor because of dispute of Sunrise 
decision, apparent rays of Sun as rising time, appearance of tip 
of disk of Sun or center portion at horizon. Despite hoping 
successful ending of this circus, we have another infinite meters 
length hurdle called Ayanamsha with nothing less than 19 to 20 
versions claiming to be correct leaving the students and 
astrological fraternity in confusion. Surmounting these barriers 
to find accuracy of birth time to a tune of 48 mintues is next to 
impossible. However by mere tallying some of the results of 
Naadi Amsha claiming correctness of birth time is a limited 
experimental procedure. 



MOVAStE SIGNS 


fiXEO SIGNS 


DUAt SIGNS 


CHANDRA KALA 


C.G.RAJAN 


1 


0*0:00 


O'.iz-xjo 


150 


29:43:00 


30:00:00 


76 


15*0*0 


15:12:00 


VASUOHA 


VA5UPHA 


2 


0:12:00 


0:24:00 


149 


39:36:00 


2*48*0 


77 


15:12:00 


15i24*0 


VA15HNAVI 


VAtSHNAV! 


3 


0:24*0 


0:36:00 


148 


29:24:00 


2*36*0 


78 


15:24*0 


15:36*0 


BRAHM1 


8RAHM1 


4 


0:36:00 


0:43*0 


147 


29:12*0 


29:24:00 


79 


15:36*0 


15:43:00 


KAiAKOOTA 


KALAKOOTA 


5 


0:48:00 


1*0:00 


MS 


29*0*0 


29:12*0 


80 


15:43:00 


16:00*0 


SANfcAW 


SANKARt 


6 


1:00:00 


1:12*0 


145 


28:48:00 


29:00*0 


31 


16*0:00 


16:12*0 


SUOHAKARA 


SADAXARt 


7 


1:12:00 


1:24:00 


144 


28:36*0 


2843:00 


82 


18:12.-00 


16:24*0 


SAVMYA 


SAMAA 


S 


1:24:00 


1:36*0 


143 


28:24*0 


28:36*0 


83 


16:24*0 


16:30:00 


SURAA 


SAUMVA 


9 


1:30:00 


1:48*0 


142 


28:12:00 


28:24:00 


84 


16:36*0 


16:43*0 


MAAYA 


5URAA 


10 


1:48:00 


2:00*0 


141 


28:00*0 


28:12:00 


85 


J64f*0 


17:00:00 


MANOHARA 


MAAYA 


11 


2:00:00 


2:12:00 


140 


27143:00 


28:00*0 


J6, 


17:00*0 


17:12:00 


MAOHAVl 


MANOHAftA 


12, 


2:12:00 


2:24:00 


133 


27:36:00 


27:48:00 


8? 


17:12*0 


17:24:00 


MAMU$WANA 


MAOHAVI 


Jl 


2:24:00 


2;36*0 


138 


27:24*0 


27:36:00 


88 


17:24:00 


17:36-00 


GHQftAA 


MANJUSWANA 


14 


2:36:00 


2:48:00 


137 


27:17:00 


27:24*0 


89 


17:36:00 


17:43:00 


KUMSHENI 


GHORA 


15 


2:43:00 


3*0:00 


136 


27:00:00 


27:12:00 


90 


17144:00 


13:00:00 


KUT1LA 


KUM8HINI 


16 


3:00:00 


3: 12:00 


13$ 


26:48*0 


27:00:00 


91 


18:00:00 


18:12*0 


PRABHA 


KUTllA 


17 


3:12:00 


3;24:00 


134 


26:36:00 


26:43:00 


92 


18:12:00 


13:24:00 


PAftA 


PRABHA 


18 


3:24:00 


3:36:00 


*ii 


26:24.00 


2&36*0 


93 


13:24:00 


13:36:00 


PAYASWINI 


PARA 


19 


3:36:00 


3:48:00 


132] 


26:12:00 


26:24:00 


94 


18:36*0 


18:43:00 


MALA 


PAVASWtNl 


20 


3:48:00 


4*0*0 


131 


26*0*0 


26:12.00 


9S 


18:48:00 


19*0:00 


JAGATHI 


MALA 


21 


4*10:00 


4:12:00 


130 


25:48:00 


26:00*0 


96 


19:00:00 


19:12*0 


JARlKAflt 


iAGATHI 


22 


4:12:00 


4:24:00 


129 


25:36:00 


25:48:00 


97 


19:12*0 


19:24:00 


DHftUVA 


JARJHARA 


23 


4:24:00 


4:36*0 


128 


25:24:00 


25:36*0 


98 


19:24:00 


19:36:00 


MU$ALA 


OHURVA 


24 


4:36*0 


4:43*0 


127 


25:12:00 


25:24*0 


99 


19:36:00 


19:43*0 


MUOGARA 


MOSALA 


25 


4:48*0 


5:00:00 


126 


25:00:00 


25:12:00 


100 


19:48*0 


20*0:00 


PASA 


MUOOARA 


76 


5:00:00 


5,12*0 


125 


2*48*0 


2*00:00 


101] 


20:00*0 


20:12*0 


CHAMPAKA PASA 


J7| 


5:12:00 


5:24:00 


124 


24:36*0 


24:48:00 


102 


20:11*0 


20;24*0 


DAMINI 


CHAMPAKA 


28 


5:24:00 


5:36.00 


123 


24:24:00 


24:36*0 


103 


20:24:00 


20:36:00 


MAN* 


OAMtNt 


29 


5:36:00 


5:48:00 


122 


24:12:00 


24:24*0 


104 


20:36:00 


20:48:00 


KAlUSHA 


MAHt 


to 


5:48:00 


6*0:00 


121 


24*0*0 


24:12:00 


105 


20:43*0 


21*0*0 


KAMAIA 


KALUSHA 



fD 

QJ 

Z3 

a. 



fD 

ZJ 

n 

fD 

in 






qj 



O 

QJ 

a 

en 



> 

n 

zi 

Qj 

r-i- 
QJ 

ZJ 

a. 



cl 

c 

C/3 

uz' 

ZJ 

1/3 



x' 

fD 
Q. 

> 
c/) 

n 

a> 
zj 

CL 
QJ 

ZJ 



en 

n 

o 

ZJ 



a. 



l/> zj 



H 

zr 



QJ 
QJ 

a. 



^ > 



t/) 

zr 

QJ 
CO 

QJ 

ro 

n 
o 

c 

ZJ 
r-r 

a> 

CL 



il -> QJ 



a) 

o -^ 

0> o 

ZJ < 

Q_ QJ 

5" S 

lq rD 



a o 

* — Z? 1 
2 ZJ ^* 

3 s- - 

rD $ 

c § QJ 

t/> =: ZJ 

r— LJ- r-r 

-< 3^ Q- 
, rt ro 
01 zj <• 

-i fl) ^ 
— g fD 
O ^ Zj 

PS 5" 



QJ _^ 

Qj _. 

ZJ ZJ ?u 

fD gj 

y 9j 

3 QJ 

°> n 

7s o 

QJ Z3 

z— «"•" 

QJ Q; 

2 3' 

QJ C£ 

9: fD 



cn cl 

Si 

ro fD H 

s =■« 

3 Z. to 
v> ffi 2 tt 

rt- w cl zj 

Is I 

zr ro ro 

to 3 3 

— • rD 

EL" w 

fD ZJ C 
x o £. 

I 3 - 






-I — rr 

w rb" ^* 
zr — -j 

SO] 
» Zrto 

It 



n 



33 
o 
o 

o 

Q. 

i^ 

CO 

3 

o" 

55 



a 

o 
3 

"O 

3 

Co 



- 


MOVABLE SIGNS 


FIXED SIGNS 


DUAL SIGNS 


CHANDRA KAU 


C.6. RAJAN 


31 


6:00:00 


6:12:00 


120 


23:48.-00 


24:00:00 


106 


21:00:00 


21:12:00 


KANTKA 


KAMALA 


32 


6:1*00 


6:24:00 


119 


23:3*:O0i 


23:48:00 


107 


21:12:00 


2l:24.tM 


KAALA 


KANTHA 


33 


6:24:00 


6:36:00 


113 


23:24:00 


23:36:00 


108 


21:24:00 


21:36:00 


KARIKARA 


KAALA 


34 


6:36-00 


6:48:00 


117 


23:12:00] 


23:24:00 


109 


21:36:00 


21:43:00 


KSHAMA 


KARJKARA 


35 


6:48:00 


7:00:00 


116 


23:00:00 


23:12:00 


110 


21:48:00 


22:00:00 


DUftOHARA 


KSHAMA 


36 


7:00:00 


7:12:00 


IIS 


22:48:00 


23:00:00 


111 


22:00:00 


22:12:00 


DURBHAGA 


DURDURA 


37 


7:12:00 


7:24:00 


114 


22:36:00 


22:48:00 


112 


22:12:00 


22:24:00 


VI5WA 


DURSHAGA 


38 


7:24:00 


7:36:00 


lis 


22:24:00 


22:36:00 


113 


22:24:00 


22:36:00 


VIS1RANA 


VlSWA 


33 


7:36:00 


7:48:00 


112 


22:12:00 


22:24:00 


114 


22:36:00 


22:48:00 


VIHWALA 


V1S1RANA 


40 


?MM 


8:00:00 


111 


32:00.-00 


23:12:00 


IIS 


22:48:00 


23:00:00 


ANIIA 


VISWALA 


41 


8:00:00 


8:12:00 


110 


21:48:00 


22:00:00 


116 


23:00:00 


23:12.00 


8HIMA 


VAVILA 


42 


8:12:00 


3:24:00 


109 


21:36:00 


21:48:00 


m 


23:12:00 


23:24:00 


5UKHPRADA 


VIDRUMA 


43 


8:24:00 


S:36:00 


108 


21:24:00 


21:36:00 


118 


23:24:00 


23:36^00 


SNIGOHA 


SUKHADA 


44 


3:36:00 


8:48:00 


107 


21:12:00 


21:24.00 


119 


23:36:00 


23:48:00 


SODARA 


SNtGOHA 


45 


8:48:00 


9:00:00 


106 


21:00:00 


21:12:00 


.120 


23-48:00 


24:00:00 


SUKASUMOAfti 


SODARA 


46 


9:00:00 


3:12:00 


IDS 


20:48:00 


21:00:00 


121 


24:00:00 


24:12:00 


AMRUTAPRASWl 


SURA5UNOAR1 


4? 


9:12:00 


9:24:00 


104 


20:36:00 


20:48.-00 


122 


24M2:O0 


24:24:00 


KARAU 


AMfttTHAPLAVINt 


48 


9:24:00 


9:36:00 


103 


20:24:00 


20:36:00 


123 


24:24:00 


24:36:00 


KAMAORyK/KARA V£ER(N* 


KAARAtA 


49 


9:36:00 


9:48:00 


102 


20:12;00 


20:24:00 


124 


24:36:00 


24:48:00 


GAHWARA 


KAMAOHUK 


so 


9:48:00 


10:00:00 


101 


20:00:00 


20:12*) 


125 


24:48:00 


25:00:00 


KUfeDJKI 


KAfiAV££ftA&I 


51 


10:00:00 


10: 12.-00 


100 


19:43:00 


20:00:00 


126 


25:00:00 


25:12:03 


KANTHA 


QAHVARA 


52 


10:12:00 


10:24:00 


99 


19:36:00 


19:48*0 


127 


25:12:00 


25:24:00 


VtSHAKHYA 


KUNOINI 


S3 


10:24:00 


10:36:00 


98 


19:24:00 


1 J9:36j00 


128 


25:24:00 


25:36:00 


VtSHANAASlNt 


ROUORA/KANTHA 


54 


10:36:00 


10:48:00 


97 


19:12*0 


19:24:00 


123 


25:36:00 


25:48:00 


NIRMADA 


VfSHA 


55 


10:48:04 


11:0080 


96 


19:00:00 


13:12:00 


130 


25:48:00 


26:00:00 


SEETAU 


VtSHAVINAStNl 


56 


11:00:00 


11:12:00 


95 


18:45:00 


19:00:00 


131 


26:00:00 


26:12:00 


N1MMANA 


MIRMADA 


57 


11:12:00 


11:24.00 


94 


18:36:00 


18;48:00 


132 


2*12:00 


26:24:00 


PfteCTA 


SteTHALA 


SS 


11:24:00 


11:36:00 


93 


18:24-00 


18:36:00 


133 


26:24:00 


26:36:00 


PRIAVlVAROmttl 


M1MMA 


59 


11:3*00 


11:48:00 


92 


18:12:00 


18:24:00 


134 


26:36:00 


26:48:00 


MAWAOHA 


PREETA 


60 


11:43:00 


12;GG#0 


91 


18:00:00 


18:12:00 


135 


26:48:00 


27:00:00 


DURBHAGA 


PRlYAVASINI 



o 

oT 

Co 
CO 

o" 

0) 
03 

i 

CO 

"■*■ 

cd 

3 

CO 

O 

3- 
03 

I 

oT 



03 
0) 



D 

CD 

03 

3 
ST 
3 






MOVABUStGKS 




FIXED SIGNS 




DUAl SIGNS 


CHANORAKAIA 


CG,ftAMN 


til 


12:00*0 


12:12:00 


90 


17:48:00 


13*0:00 


136 


27*0:00 


27:12*0 


CHITRA 


MAANAGHNA 


62 


12-12:00 


12:24:00 


89 


17:36:00 


17*48:00 


137 


27^12:00 


27:24*0 


VtCHiTRA 


DUR8HAGA 


63 


1*24:00 


12:36*0 


88 


1?:24*0 


17:36*0 


138 


27:24*0 


27:36:00 


CHIRAJfVlNl 


CHITRA 


64 


12:36:00 


12:48:00 


87 


17:12:00 


17:24:00 


139 


27:36*0 


27:48*0 


8HOCPA 


CHiTHJN! 


65 


12:43*0 


13,-00:00 


86 


17:00:00 


17:12:00 


140 


27:43:00 


28:00*0 


SAOAHARA 


CHIflANJCEVlNJ 


66 


13:00:00 


13:12*0 


85 


16443:00 


17*0:00 


141 


23:00:00 


28:12*0 


NAAtA 


VffiUPA/BHOOPA 


67 


13:12:00 


13:24:00 


84 


16:36:00 


16:48:00 


142 


28:12:00 


28:24:00 


GAAtAVEE 


GAOAHARA 


63 


13:24:00 


33:36:00 


S3 


16:24:00 


16:36:00 


143 


28:24:00 


28:36:00 


NIRMALA 


NAAIA 


65 


13:36:00 


1348:00 


82 


16:12:00 


16:24:00 


144 


28:36:00 


28*8*0 


NADHl 


NAtfN* 


70 


13 I4&QQ 


14*0:00 


31 


16*0:00 


16:12:00 


14$ 


28:48*0 


29;GQ.*Q 


5UOHA 


N1RMA1A 


71 


14:00 ;00 


14:12:00 


80 


15:48:00 


16:00:00 


146 


29*0*0 


29:12:00 


MR1TAMSUGA 


nadhi 


72 


14:12:00 


14:24:00 


79 


15:36:00 


15148:00 


147 


25:12:00 


23:24*0 


KAAU 


SADAMRITAM5UKAW 


73 


14:24:00 


14:36:00 


78 


15:24:00 


15:36:00 


148 


29:24:00 


29:36:00 


KAAUKA 


CHAPAU 


74 


14:36:00 


14:45:00 


77 


15:12:00 


15:24:00 


149 


29:36:00 


29:48*0 


(CAiUSHANKUftA 


SAANKUAA 


75 


14:43:00 


15:00*0 


76 


15:00*0 


15:12:00 


150 


29:43*0 


30*0:00 


TRYUJKVAMOHANAKARi 


TRYLOKYAMQHANAKARt 


76 


15:00:00 


15:12:00 


75 


14:48:00 


15*0:00 


1 


0:00:00 


0:12:00 


MAHAMAAYA 


MAHAMAAR) 


77 


15:12:00 


15:24:00 


74 


14:36*0 


14:43:00 


2 


0:12:00 


0:24:00 


SUStETAU 


SUSEETHAtA 


7« 


15:2*00 


15:36:00 


73 


14:24:00 


14:36:00 


3 


0:24:00 


0:36:00 


SUKHADA 


SU8HAGA/SUMATHA 


79 


15:36:00 


15:48:00 


72 


14:12*0 


14:24:00 


4 


0:36:00 


048:00 


5UPRA8HA 


SUPRASHA 


60 


15:43:00 


16:00*0 


71 


14*0:00 


14:12:00 


S 


0:48:00 


1*0:00 


SHOBHA 


SH08WA 


81 


16:00:00 


16:12:00 


70 


13:48:00 


14:00:00 


6 


1:00:00 


1:12:00 


SH08ANA 


SH08ANA 


82 


16:12:00 


16:24*0 


69 


13:36:00 


13:48:00 


7 


1:12:00 


1:24:00 


SIVADA 


StVADA 


83 


16:24:00 


16:36:00 


68 


13:24:00 


13:36:00 


3 


1:24:00 


1:36:00 


SHtVA 


SHIVA 


84 


16:36:00 


16:43:00 


67 


13:12:00 


13*24:00 


9 


1:36:00 


1:43:00 


BAIA 


3ALA 


S3 


16:43:00 


17:00:00 


66 


13:00*0 


13:12:00 


10 


1:43*0 


2:00*0 


JWALA 


JWAU 


86 


17:00:00 


17:12:00 


65 


12:48*0 


13*0:00 


11 


2:00:00 


2:12:00 


GADA 


GADA 


87 


17:12:00 


17:24*0 


64 


12:36*0 


12:43:00 


12 


2:12:00 


2:24:00 


GAADA 


GAADA 


SS 


17:24:00 


17:36:00 


53 


12; 24*0 


12:36:00 


13 


2:24:00 


2:36:00 


SOOTANA/NOOTANA 


NOOTANA 


39 


17:36:00 


17:48:00 


62 


12:12:00 


12:24:00 


14 


2:36:00 


2:48*0 


SUMANOHARA 


SUMANOHARA 


90 


17:43:00 


18*0*0 


61 


12:00*0 


12:12:00 


15 


2:48:00 


3*0:00 


SOMAVAUJ 


50MAVAIU 



CO 



o 

Q 
CO 

§• 



O 
o 

3 

~o 

3 

Co 

5' 

Co 



MOVAOtf SIGNS 


FIXED SKaNS 




DUALSN3WS 


CHANDRA KA1A 


CG.RAJAN 


91 


1S:00«0 


IS: 12.00 


_60j 


11:48:00 


12:00:00 


16 


3:00:00 


3:12:00 


50MALATHA 


SOMALATKA 


92 


16:12:00 


18:24:00 


59 


113680 


11:48:00 


17 


3-42:00 


3:24:00 


MANGAIA 


MANILA 


J£i 


18:24:00 


18:36:00 


58 


U:24>D0 


11:36:00 


18 


3:24:00 


3:36:00 


M00R1KA 


MUOfiiKA 


94] 


IS; 36:00 


18:48:00 


37 


11:1230 


lfc24:00 


19 


3:36:00 


3:48:00 


SUDHA 


SOOTHA 


J£] 


t&M$Q 


19:0030 


56 


11:00:00 


11:32:00 


20 


3:48:00 


4:00:00 


MELA 


MOKSHAPAVARGA 


96 


19:00:00 


19:13.-00 


55 


10:4£00 


11:00:00 


21 


4:00:00 


4:12:00 APAVARGA 


VALAYA 


97 


19:12:00 


1924:00 


54 


Hfc36:0fr 


10:48.-00 


22 


4:12:00 


4:24:00 


PA5YATHA 


NAVANEETHA 


98 


»:24#Q 


19:36:00 


53 


10:24.-00 


10:36:00 


23 


4:24:00 


4:36:00 


NAVA^rtETHA 


NlSAKARJ 


99 


19:36:00 


19:48:00 


52 


10:12:00i 


10:24:00 


24 


4:36:00 


4:48:00 


NtSACHARt 


NIVRlTHI 


100 


19:48:00 


20:00:00 


SI 


10:00:00 


10:12:00 


25 


4:48:00 


5:00:00 


WVRITH1 


NK5AOA 


101 


20:00:00 


20.-U.-00 


50 


9:48,-00 


103)0:00 


26 


3:00tf0 


S:12tt0 


NIRGATHA 


SAUftA/SAAftA 


102 


20:12:00 


20:24:00 


49 


9:36:00 


948:00 


27 


5:12:00 


5:2*00 


SAAftA 


SANGEFTHA 


103 


20:24:00 


20:36:00 


48 


9:2*00 


9:36:00 


28 


5:24:00 


5:36*0 


SAMAGA 


SUMTKA 


1W 


20:36:00 


20:48:00 


47 


9:12:00 


9:24:00 


29 


5:36:00 


5:48:00 


SAMAQA 


V&WAM8HARA 


105 


20:43:00 


21:00:00 


,46 


9:00:00 


9:12:00 


30 


5:48:00 


6:0&00 


SAMA 


KUMAR* 


106 


21:00:00 


21:12:00 


45 


8:48:00 


9:00:00 


31 


6:00:00 


6:12:00 


VISWAMSHARA 


KOKILA 


107 


21:12:00 


21:24:00 


44 


8:36^)0 


8*8:00 


32 


6:12:00 


fcisloo 


KUMAR! 


KUNJARAKRITHI 


308 


21:24:00 


21:3*00 


43 


8:24:00 


8:36:00 


33 


6:24:00 


6:36:00 


KOKILA 


ANtDtRA 


109 


21:36:00 


21:48:00 


42 


8:12:00 


8:24.-00 


34 


6:36:00 


6:45:00 


KUNARAKRITHJ 


SWAAHA 


no 


21:48:00 


22:00:00 


41 


SODrtO 


8:12:00 


35 


6:48:00 


750O300 


INOHA 


SWARA 


in 


22:00:00 


22:12:00 


40 


7:48:00 


8:00:00 


36 


7:00:00 


7:12:00 


SWAHA 


VAHNi 


m 


22:32:00 


22:24:00 


39 


7:3*00 


7:48:00 


37 


7:12:00 


7:24:00 


5WAOHA 


PRCETHI 


113 


22:24:00 


^2:36:00 


38 


7:24:00 


7:36:00 


38 


7:24:00 


7:36*0 


VAHNI 


RAKSHAJALA 


114 


22:36:00 


22:48:00 


37 


7:12:00 


7:24:00 


39 


7:36:00 


7:48:03 


PftEETHA 


PtAVA 


115 


22:45:00 


23:00.00 


36 


7:00:00 


7:12:00 


40 


7*3:00 


8:00:00 


VAKSH1 


VAARUNI 


ne' 


23:00:00 


23:12:00 


35 


6:48:00 


XOOU50 


41 


8U»^0 


8:12:00 


ACHA1APRASNA 


MAOIRA 


U7 


23:12:00 


23:24.-00 


34 


6:36:00 


6:48:00 


42 


8:12:00 


8:24:00 


SAARINI 


MAlTft! 


IIS 


23:24:00 


23:36:00 


33 


6:UsOO 


6:36:00 


43 


8:24:00 


8:36:00 


MAONURA 


HAAftlNI 


119 


23:36:00 


23:48i00 


32 


6:12,-00 


6:24:00 


44 


8:36.00 


8:48:00 


MAtTfil 


HARtNl 


120 


23:43.-00 


24:00:00 


31 


6:00:00 


6:12:00 


45 


8:48:00 


9:OfcOG 


HAmm 


MARUTH 



o 
sr 

CO 
CO 

s' 

I 

03 

a, 

f 

CO 

f-fc 
CD 

3 
CO 

O 

03 

I 

"5" 

o. 

I 

CD 

§ 

3 
5" 

2 



-•j 



MOVABLE SIGHS 


FIXED SIGNS 


DUAL SIGNS 


CHANDRA KAU 


CafcAJAN 


121 


24:00:00 


24:12:00 


30 


5:48:00 


6*0:00 


46 


9:00:00 


9:12*0 


HAARWI 


OHANAJYA 


122 


34:1*00 


24:24:00 


29 


5:36:00 


5:43:00 


47 


9:12:00 


9:24:00 


MAftUTHA 


OHANAKW 


133 


34:24:00 


24:36:00 


28 


5:24:00 


5:36:00 


48 


9:24:00 


9:36:00 


DKANAJAYA 


OHANADA 


124 


24:36:00 


24;4S;O0 


27 


5:12:00 


5:24:00 


49 


9:36:00 


9:43*0 


DHANKARI 


MRtCCAYA 


125 


24*43:00 


25*0*0 


26 


5:0OA0 


5:12:00 


50 


9:43:00 


10:00:00 


DHANDA 


AM8UJA 


126 


25:00:00 


...25:12 ^Op, 


25 


*4$:0O 


5:00:00 


51 


10:00:00 


10:12:00 


KACHCHAPA 


ISAANt 


127 


25:12:00 


25:24*0 


24 


4:36:00 


4:43:00 


52 


10:12:00 


10:24:00 


AMBUJA 


THOOttNi 


12$ 


25:24:00 


25:36*0 


23 


4:24:00 


_*mw^ 


53 


10:24:00 


10:36:00 


ISAANt 


RAUDW 


129 


25:36*G 


25:48*0 


22 


4:12:00 


4:24:00 


54 


10^6:00 


10:43*0 


SOOLIN1 


SWVAA 


130 


25:48:00 


26:00*0 


21 


4:00:00 


4:12:00 


55 


10:43:00 


11*0*0 RAUOft! 


SHJVAKAfii 


131 


26:00*0 


26:12*0 


20 


3:48:00 


4:00:00 


56 


11:00:00 


11:12:00 


SJVASIVAKAftl 


KAAIA 


132 


26:12:00 


2ft 24:00 


19 


3:36:00 


3^48:00 


57 


11:12:00 


11:24:00 


KAAU 


KUNOA 


133 


26:24-00 


26:36*0 


1$ 


3:24:00 


3:36:00 


58 


11:24:00 


11:36:00 


KUN0A 


MUKUNOA 


134 


26:36100 


26.48:00 


17 


3:12*0 


3:24:00 


59 


11:36:00 


11:43;00 


MUXUNOA 


8HARATKA 


135 


26:48*0 


2*00:00 


16 


3:00:00 


3:12:00 


60 


11:48:00 


12:00*0 


PARTHA/fi^ARATHA 


PASlTHA 


136 


27:00:00 


27:12:00 


15 


2:48:00 


3:00:00 


61 


12:00:00 


12:12*0 


KAOAU 


KANDtNl 


137 


27:12:00 


27:24:00 


14 


2:36:00 


2:43:00 


62 


12:1*00 


12:24*0 


SAMARA 


SAMARA 


133 


27:24:00 


27:36*0 


13 


2:24:00 


2:36:00 


63 


12:24:00 


12:36:00 


BAStTHA 


KUNTAU 


139 


27:36:00 


27:48*0 


12 


2:12:00 


2:24:00 


64 


12:36:00 


12:43*0 


KODALA 


KOKItA 


140 


27:48:00 


28:00:00 


11 


2*C:0Q 


2:12:00 


65 


12:48*0 


13:00*0 


KOU-AM5A 


PAAPA 


141 


25:00:00 


28:12:00 


10 


1:48:00 


2:00:00 


66 


13:00*0 


13:12:00 


KAAMtNl 


KAAMINE 


142 


28:12*0 


28:24*0 


9 


1:36:00 


1:48*0 


67 


13:12:00 


13:24:00 


KAUSGOSHAVA 


KAUSODHSHAVA 


143 


28:24:00 


28:36*0 


8 


1:24:00 


1:36:00 


6S 


13:24:00 


13:36*0 


V1RAPRA5QO 


VIRAPRSOO 


144 


28:36:00 


28:48*0 


7 


1:12:00 


1:24:00 


69 


13:36*0 


13:43:00 


SANGARA 


SANKARA 


145 


28:48:00 


29:00:00 


6 


1:00:00 


1:12:00 


70 


13:4S*Q 


14:00*0 


SATHAVAGNA 


SATHAVAGNA 


146 


29*0:00 


29:12*0 


5 


0:43*0 


1:00:00 


71 


14:00:00 


14:12:00 


SATAAVARI 


SADAAVAW 


147 


29:12:00 


29:24*0 


4 


0:36:00 


0:48*0 


72 


14:12*0 


14:24*0 


SRAGVt 


8ftAHVS/VlRAHAPA 


143 


29:24:00 


29:36*0 


3 


0:24:00 


0:36:00 


73 


14:24*0 


14:36:00 


PAATAUNt 


PAATAUNt 


149 


29:36:00 


23:40*0 


2 


0:12*0 


0:24:00 


74 


14:36*0 


14:43:00 


NAGAPANJCAJA 


PANKAM 


150 


29:48:00 


30:00:00 


1 


0:00*0 


0:12:00 


75 


14:48:00 


15:00:00 


PARAMtSWARt 


PARAMtSWARI 



<0 

CO 



o 
o 
5? 
o 

CD 

CO 

»-■»- 

3 

o 



o 



3 

CD 
CO 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Keralam 99 



Except a few there seems to be interchanged names for 
the numbers in the above Amshas. Most of the names relates 
to female goddess Lalita, Durga, Lakshmi and some of them 
relates to few puranic names. Vernacular pronouciations may 
also have been contributed to differing names. 

Umpteen number of combination results are given for birth 
lagna amshas and planetary amshas. A structured approach to 
this method is possible only when the entire work is reorganised 
with a scholarly research orientiation having command over 
both Sanskrit and astrology subject and having original Sanskrit 
verses. Indeed legendary R Santanam's work is great for having 
gifted this translated version. There is no use of reproducing 
his work claiming to be a prediction system of Chandra Kala 
Naadi because, the scholar has done wonderful work by 
translating the monumental work. The scribe keeping the spirit 
of the translator would like to pickup only the general principles 
enumerated in this great work which are applicable universally 
in traditional astrology so that this piece of work may be useful 
to the reader. However we shall commence this work by 
reproducing a few Amsha theory from the begenning slokas of 
1 st Volume. 

Sloka 1 and 2: Vasudhamsa: Birth in this Amsha: 

00:00:00 to 00:12:00 or 29:48:00 to 30:00:00 or 15:00:00 to 
15:12:00 of Movable, Fixed or Dual respectively. One born in 
the first half of Maalini Amsha (no reference to this Amsha) 
with Jupiter in Kaalakoota Naadi Amsha 00:36:00 to 00:48:00 
with Matanga yoga (Jupiter exalted, being in Pisces Navamsa 
that is he should be in 26:40 to 30 Degrees along with Venus 
and Moon for Matanga yoga) will give red complexion and 
auspiciousness. 

Now see the contradictions and confusions in this 
very first sloka. There is no reference to Maalini Amsha 
in the 150 Amshas. If Matanga yoga is formed Jupiter 
cannot be in Kaalakoota Amsha 

Subsequent sloka mentions only Matanga yoga. 
Does it replace the Vasudhamsa? 



100 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Sloka 3: Malefics in trine from the Moon while Saturn is 
with Rahu, native born in Maalini Amsha indicates the impure 
family of low level, 

Sloka 4-5: Effects of Matanga Yoga: Born in Matanga yoga 
with Maalini Amsha will not have own siblings and may have 
step siblings. Native's father will have three wives. Native's 
mother is long lived and his sister will have blemish character. 
Mother will be devoted and chaste in character. She will be 
deprived of family happiness and will be troubled due to 
destruction of her brother. Her husband will be long lived. 

It is Cancer Ascendant and Jupiter is 9 th lord being in Moon 
ascendant along with Venus and Moon. Venus is 4 th lord and 
Moon Lagna lord. 9 th lord is father 4 th lord represent mother 
and Moon is karaka for mother indicates two mothers to the 

native. 

Important: Above sloka gives a clue to find out number 
of wives to a person. Similarly this can be seen for siblings etc., 
using the respective house and karakas. 

Sloka 6-7: As earlier said father is long lived and mother 
is grieved due to destruction of her brother due to presence of 
Jupiter in Matanga yoga and Matanga Amsha (No reference to 
this Amsha). One of her sisters will be long lived while other 
siblings die early. 

Sloka 8-13 V2: Person born in Matanga yoga will like 
union with his spouse only. His wife will become a widow due to 
separation and will die. Native will lose his father in child hood. 

Suddenly there is a shift from Cancer to Aries. 

If Moon is in Srikaara Naadi Amsha ( you don't find this in 
the Amsha list- but the translator has equated this with Karikara 
Amsha 6:24:00 to 6:36 for Movable sign but in the list it is 
under Chandra Kala Naadi and with reference to C G Rajan 
version it falls in Kaalamsha) becoming lord of 4 th (Aries 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi -Deva Keralam 101 

Ascendant) occupying Scorpio or Capricorn Navamsa having 
aspect of Jupiter as 9 th Lord (Aries ascendant) and the native 
born in Durbhaga Naadi Amsha that is 11:48:00 to 12:00:00 
will not have younger brothers. He will have lonely sister long 
lived. Mother will also live long. Natives born in Durbhaga Naadi 
Amsha will have one sister with ill fortune. Father may have 
two marriages and step brothers of the native will be destroyed. 
Father of the native will prosper after 15 th year of native. Father 
may have business visit to foreign countries dealing in diamonds, 
grains and clothes having commercial vocation and will have 
siblings. 

Sloka 14 to 16: The place denoted by addition of degrees 
of 4 th lord and Sun, if transited by Saturn will result in destruction 
of father. For a person born in first half of Maalini Naadi Amsa 
with Matanga yoga the first sub period of Janma Dasha will 
prove dangerous for father. 

(Author also adds up another clue that 5 th house denotes 
death of Mother and if Saturn transits In the place derived by 
adding Degrees of Moon and 5 th lord, death of mother can be 
predicted.) 

(The Janma Dasha is the count from Nakshatra Siddhanta 
of Satyacharya where in the birth star assessment is essential. 
Please see Dhruva Naadi chapter.) 

This is how the Naadi amshas are expounded throughout 
the volume. However, there are number of secret formulae like 
the one explained for death of father and mother in the above 
paragraph. Focused study of the entire text is essential to pick 
up such formulae and logically adopt them to universal 
application in traditional or naadi astrology. 

The scribe has picked up the universally applicable principles 
from these volumes and incorporated in this section with example 
wherever it is possible. 



102 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

General principles from Chandra Kala Naadi: 

Book-2 nd part, sloka 26 onwards 

Malavya yoga: Venus being in own house or in his sign of 
exaltation falling in kendra to a lagna will cuase this yoga: This 
yoga bestows the person with all the richies like convyeance, 
position and knowledge. The yoga caused by Venus being exalted 
in a kendra to a Lagna that is for Sagittarius, Pisces, Gemini and 
Virgo, if the dispositor Jupiter is associated with a malefic planet 
or if ill placed the yoga will get cancelled. Normally this 
cancellation of yoga will also occur if Venus is ill disposed in 
navamsha. 

This is a part of Panchamahapurusha yoga well 
known to astrologers. The other mahapurusha yogas 
are given below; 

Hamsa yoga: Jupiter in his own or exalted house 
falling in Kendra to a Lagna. All the four Lagna in dual 
signs having Jupiter posited in his own sign will cause 
thisyoga. Aries, Capricorn, & Libra as ascendants Jupiter 
in Cancer as exalted place will cause this yoga. 

The person will be righteous in his deeds, will have 
attractive body and will be liked by all. He will have 
auspicious marks on his sole. 

If Jupiter is eclipsed by Sun or if he is hemmed 
between Saturn and Mars or if he is ill placed in 
Navamsa, this yoga will give adverse results. 

Sasa Yoga: Saturn in his own house or in Libra falling 
as Kendra to Lagna will cause this Yoga. For Libra 
ascendant Saturn in Capricorn and vice versa(due to 
exalted place), for Scorpio Saturn in Aquarius, for Cancer 
Saturn in Libra or in Capricorn, for Leo Saturn in Aquarius 
for Aries Saturn in Capricorn or in Libra, for Taurus 
ascendant Saturn in Aquarius will cause this Yoga. 

While Saturn in exalted place if Venus is debilitated 
or conjunct with Sun or Moon and badly placed in 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadl - Deva Keralam 103 



horoscope or Navamsa this yoga will give very bad 
results. 

Results: will have faithful servants, he may lead a 
village or town but will be grabbing others properties 
or even steel their belongings. He may not cultivate good 
character. 

In the event of malefic influence this may worsen 
and he may lose properties and also earn bad name. 

Ruchaka yoga: Mars in his exalted house (Capricorn) 
or in his own house falling Kendra to any Lagna will 
gain this yoga. For Cancer, Libra and Aries, Mars in 
Capricorn will give this yoga but if Saturn is in Aries or 
if he is associated with Rahu, Ketu, Moon or Mercury 
and be placed in bad houses or if he is ill placed in 
Navamsa this yoga will give adverse results. For Taurus, 
Mars in Scorpio and for Libra Mars in Aries. For Capricorn 
Mars in Aires for Leo Mars in Scorpio also gives Ruchaka 
yoga. If there be association of Mercury or Ketu or Rahu 
this yoga may not give good results. 

Results: Well-built personality, a fighter, he will have 
traditional values for his birth place and will be 
disciplined with charitable disposition. With good 
longevity he will be equal to a kind. 

Example horoscope: 





Ra7 






\ SaR 12 /\ / 

\^/ Mo 11 V<f 
Y\ As 22 /V 

£ Ke 7 ?/\} R a 7 > 

fb<( Ma 15 )a2 
/ S>\ Me 20 /n\ 

/ Ve 9 \ / X 
/ 3u20 \/ \ 




Natal Chart 
Rashi (Dl) 


Moll 
As 22 


Su 1 

Ma 15 
Me 20 


SaR 12 


Ve9 

Ju20 




Ke7 





104 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 







Ma 


Ve 

Ra 


xx as \y 

i "yx " a x ft 
~7\ Su /\ 

/ iyK mo \ 

Ma 2X Me X^fi 
/3\ SaR /5\ 




Navamsha 
Rashi (D9) 


Me 
SaR 


AS 

Su 




Ke 




Mo 

Ju 





In the above horoscope the native has Mars in his exalted 
place. But he is with Mercury and the dispositor Saturn is placed 
in Leo an enemy sign and is having an aspect with Rahu. In 
Navamsa Saturn is in Cancer an enemy sign along with Mercury 
and having aspect of Sun. Thus the native had reverse effect of 
Ruchaka yoga. He has a weak body with bad immune system. 
He had to struggle hard in his professional life. He is afraid to 
encounter people. 

Bhadra yoga: Mercury when he is in own house 
Gemini or exalted in his other house Virgo will cause 
this Yoga. Unless very badly afflicted or if he is placed 
very badly in Navamsa this yoga will make him a 
gentleman and will be generous in helping his relatives 
and earn a good name and make others happy with his 
company. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Keralam 105 



Example: 



As 21 


Ke 10 


JuR 5 




\ Ke 10 /\ / 
JuR 5 2>^ As 21 y\l Q 

Sa2 /^\ *** y7\ ve8 

/ \ / Su 5 \ 

/ \/RalOMal5\ 




Natal Chart 
Rashi (Dl) 


5a 22 








Ve8 


Su5 

Ra 10 
Ma 15 


Me 25 
Mo 25 











\ Ma /\ / 
\ JuR / \ / 

\ll/ As \9/ 
l^^ Sa Xa Su 

/ \10/ X. 

5< Ke X6 Ve 
s x / 5 X 


Ma 

JuR 


Navamsha 

Rashi (D9) 

Spouse 


Ke 


AS 

Sa 

Ra 


Mo 
Me 




Su 




Ve 



Mercury being exalted in natal chart and is having 
an aspect of Jupiter and it is in 7 th house. In Navamsa 
though he is placed in 8 th from Navamsa Lagna he has 
the aspect of Jupiter from Aquarius. 

The native enjoyed the Bhadra yoga and he is well known 
among the friends and relative circles as a good companion 
and a party guy. He is helpful to his relatives. 



106 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Note: We must actually take the strength of the 
planet, in the chart and also assess the yoga and avayoga 
according to Parasara before we predict the results of 
Panchamahapurusha yoga. When a planet becomes 
Dosha as per Parasara yogavali rules the 
Panchamahapurusha yoga cannot be attributed. A yoga 
karaka may get this yoga to further strengthen his yoga 
effect. 

Book 2 part 2 sloka 28 onwards: 

Very bad results are to be expected involving poverty and 
misery when all planets exalted in Lagna chart and debilitated 
in Navamsa. 

A planet debilitated in Lagna and exalted in Navamsa is an 
indication of progressive happiness. Vargottama planet will give 
good results, provided the house happens to be favorable 

More number of planets getting exalted in Dusthanas is an 
indication of miserable life and their ill position in Navamsa will 
worsen the case. 

More planets being posited in their own signs will produce 
desirable good results and it will be more effective in granting 
comfortable life if they happen to be in Yoga karaka signs in 
Navamsa. Contrary positions in Navamsa will cause difficult living. 

Book 2 - 2 nd Part sloka 33 onwards 

Adhi yoga: 

From Chandra or from Janma Lagna if benefics are in 6 th 
7 th and 8 th house this yoga is formed. This yoga gives powerful 
position, strength to conquer enemies and good health. 

Comment: Though there are divergent views about 
the Lagna Adhi yoga and Chandra Adhi yoga, the scribe 
prefers to original recommendation of Chandra Kala 
Naadi for this yoga. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Keralam 107 



Take a look at the chart below: 











Lagna 


\ 4 / 
5 s\ 


Lagna 


/v 1 










Su? 


Malefics 
























Su? 


Ju 






7>v 


Ve 


\X- Male- 


Su? 


Ve 


Me 




V 










/ \ 


/ Me 




Ju \ 



Considering from Lagna the benefic planets Mercury, 
Venus Jupiter in 6 th 7 th 8 th as shown above is possible. 
Sun can be in 6 th or 7 th or 8 th or 9 th (because malefics 
allowed in 9 th ). 5 th is to be vacant. Now according to 
author the Moon should have brilliant rays. That means 
he should be at least 5 signs away from the Sun. Then 
Lagna adhi yoga is possible. 

If we consider Chandra Adhi yoga, Moon by default 
gets brilliant rays as Sun will be considerably far away 
from the Moon, since 5 th should be vacant, the Sun can 
occupy 6 th , 7 th 8 th or 9 th house as said above. 
Subsequently it is said that if Sun and Moon involve in 
this yoga, this is possible when Sun is exactly opposite 
to Moon where they have relationship due to mutual 
aspect, the yoga gain full strength and excellent results 
are produced. 



108 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Example horoscope: Chandra Adhi yoga: 





Ra 7 






X SaR l 2 /\ / 

i$/ Moll \K 
VK As 22 /S. 

f Ke7 7^Xl Ra7 N 

X / Su 1 X S 

SX Ma 15 X 12 
/9\ Me 20 /n\ 

/ Ve9\ / \ 
/ Ju20 \X \ 




Natal Chart 
Rashi (Dl) 


MO 11 
As 22 


Sul 
Ma 15 
Me 20 


SaR12 


Ve9 

Ju20 




Ke7 





Fortunately Janma Lagna and Chandra Lagna of the native 
fall in Cancer. The 5 th is vacant. In 6 th Venus and Jupiter, in 7 th 
Mercury, Mars and Sun are posited. Despite a malefic planet 
Mars in ,7 th , having full Moon in Lagna, the native enjoyed this 
yoga during Moon period which occurred after retirement. This 
yoga gave him recognition and name in occult knowledge. The 
involvement of Mars along with Mercury has given him the writing 
ability. 



Book 2 Part 2 sloka 40 onwards: 

1, Strong Saturn being vargottama or in yoga karaka Amsha 
associated in birth chart with Venus will give intelligence, 
fame, wealth and skills to complete the jobs assigned to 
him by authorities. He will be lustful. 

2. Similarly strong Saturn as above with benefics will bestow 
excellent raja yoga. 



Classicai Naadi Systems: Chandra Kafa Naadi - Deva Keralam 109 

3. Debilitated malefics and exalted benefics as lords of 9 th 
and 10 th and posited in angles are trines will bestow high 
authority like that of a king with fame and longevity. 

Explanation: The scribe has explained this in his 
work on Naadi system "Revelation from Naadi Jyotisha", 
that strong Saturn association with Venus is an 
indication of good yoga for wealth. According to this 
Mercury, Venus, Jupiter association to Saturn will 
indicate a royal life with good and smooth profession, 
when Sun also joins with them the person will raise high 
position with name and fame. 

The 3 rd point has a clue towards hidden meaning of 
dictums in Jaataka Chandrika, Malefic when owns a 
Kona house the other house not being papa house, they 
tend to get Dosha. This is not apparent in translated 
dictums. Some scholars have logical explanation and 
proved this to be perfectly working. Such Dosha planets 
must be in Kendra or Kona from their own house (not 
from Lagna as indicated). This gives them yoga karaka 
position. When they get exalted they gain the malefic 
nature. Therefore they should not get exalted. Benefic 
planets when they appear as Kona lords their exaltation 
become an additional benefic point to bestow good 
results. (But not when they become Dosha planet). 
There are number of rules to identify the Yoga karaka 
for a particular Lagna which supersedes the generalized 
yoga karaka listed in astrological texts. The scribe is 
planning to come out with a special edition on this 
subject.) However in the above sloka there is a clue 
about this by mentioning debilitation of malefic planets. 

Example illustrating the ill-effect of exalted Mars 
who is supposed to be a yoga karaka for Cancer 
ascendant in general. 



110 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 





Ra7 






V SaR 12 X\ / 

£SK Mo 11 \^f 
*T\ As 22 y>V 

/ Ke7 7V1 Ra7 \ 
\. XioV / 

8X Ma 15 X 12 
/ 9 \ Me 20 y/*i\ 

/ Ve9 \ / \ 
/ Ju20 \/ \ 




Natal Chart 
Rashi (Dl) 


Moll 
As 22 


Sul 

Ma 15 
Me 20 


SaR 12 


Ve9 
Ju20 




Ke7 





1. Mars as lord of 5 th a Kona and 10 th a Kendra is 
generally considered yoga karaka for Cancer 
Ascendant. 

2. In Mercury Dasha and Mars Bhukti in 1965, the 
native had to abandon his education and wandered 
without aim and spoiled his career. 

3. In Ketu Dasha Mars Bhukti in 1975 he had health 
problems and joined a small job involving hardwork 
and suffered humiliations. 

4. In Venus Dasha Mars Bhukti 1986 he had terrible ill 
health problems wherein he had to run pillar to post 
to get a job and maintain it. He failed miserably and 
his condition was pitiable. 

5. In Sun Dasha and Mars Bhukti during 2001 he had 
to suffer mental tensions due to ill health and other 
family matters and had to resign job. 

6. In Moon Dasha and Mars Bhukti he had severe health 
problems. 

All these because of his exaltation, he has also 
contributed in material benefits just because he is with 
Mercury there-by his exalted effects are reduced. In his 
Maha Dasha as ruler he will have powers to give rise as 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kaia Naadi - Deva Keralam 111 

yoga karaka being conjunct with a functional malefic 
and getting associated with Sun as the 2 nd lord. But he 
will equally give his malefic effects of exaltation though 
controlled. 

Mere being the lord of Kona and Kendra it cannot 
be construed as Yoga karaka. The positional and 
relational dignities and other technicalities are to be 
considered for correctly identifying the yoga karaka. 

Book 2 Part 2 - Sloka 44 onwards; 

Childlessness: 

A malefic in 5 th house associated or having aspect with 
Saturn and the 5 th lord placed in 6 th or 8 th house with a malefic 
or with an aspect of malefic will deprive the birth of Son. 

Not having malefics in 5 th house if the 5 th lord is strong in 
all aspects, the native will get progeny, mighty and happy 
professional life with wealth and gains. 

In the previous example horoscope, the 5 th house is 
clean and has no malefic influence. 5 th Lord is exalted 
and placed in 7 th another house of children. He is having 
aspect of full Moon as not only Lagna lord but also as 
powerful benefic. According to Phala Deepika benefic 
posited in 2 nd to any house will fortify the good effects 
of the house. 5 th house in the above chart is having two 
natural benefic planets Jupiter and Venus in Sagittarius 
which is 2 nd to 5 th house. Involvement of female planets 
and the association of Male planets have all contributed 
and the native has two issues one male and one female. 

Book 2 part 2 sloka 46 onwards: 

Whether exalted or debilitated 5 th lord getting Vargottama 
Amsha or if debilitated having benefic aspect or 5 th Lord being 
in his own sign, the native will have yoga for getting status, 
riches and happiness. 



1 12 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



This is a simple Bhava analysis procedure. More 
details can be studied in Phala Deepika and Bhavartha 
Ratnakara. 

Book 2 part 2 sloka 52 onwards 

Pisces being a trine to Lagna and Jupiter being posited 
along with Moon or with aspect of Moon, the native will prosper 
from 16 th year of age. 

Sloka 54: Aroodha pada: 

Parasara and Jaimni texts deals with Aroodha pada. 
Jaimini astrology discuss this issue in detail and contains 
intelligent predictive modules. 

Aroodha is the sign position counted from a bhava 
to the position of bhava lord and again counting the 
same number from Lord and ariving the Aroodha pada. 
This Aroodha pada is a mirror which reflects the Bhava 
of its origin. 



1. 


Lagna pada 


2. 


Dhana pada 


3. 


Vikrama pada 


4. 


Sukha pada 


5. 


Putra pada 


6. 


Roga pada 


7. 


Dara pada 


8. 


Mrityu pada 


9. 


Pitru pada 


10 


. Karma pada 


11 


. Labha pada 


12 


. Vyaya pada 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kaia Naadi - Deva Kerafam 113 

Count the number of signs from Lagna to Lagna lord 
sign and then count from Lagna lord same number of 
houses. Similarly all Bhavas has to be counted. Note that 
the same house or 7 th house cannot be Aroodha pada. 
In such case count 10 th from the bhava and note as 
Aroodha pada. If 4 th becomes Aroodha pada 4 th itself 
will be Aroodha pada. 

We will find out the Aroodha pada for 12 houses for 
the previous example horoscope: 

Lagna is Cancer and lagna lord is in lagna itslef 
therefore 10 th from it becomes Aroorda; 

That is Aries is Lagna Aroodha pada 

(the native's nature is hot tempered and had to put 
hard work in life) 

2 nd house is Leo and the Lord Sun is 6 houses away 
from 2 nd house. 6 th house from Sun is Gemini. 

That is Gemini is Dhana Aroodha pada 

(native's earnings relates to accouting and writing 
he will engage in subjects relating to metaphyscial and 
arts due to aspect of Jupiter and Venus.) 

3 rd house is Virgo and the lord Mercury is 5 houses 
away from 3 rd house. Counting 5 houses from Capricorn, 
Taurus is Aroodha pada 

That is Taurus is Vikrama Pada 

(the native though enthusiatic in nature, he is soft 
in approach. Taurus is a female sign and lord Venus is 
also female. Therefore native has only two sisters.) 

4 th house is Libra and the lord is in 3 rd house from it. 
From Venus 3 rd house is Aquarius 

That is Aquarius is Sukha pada 

(the native had to struggle hard for happiness, and 
his mother overcame many difficult situations) 



114 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

5 th house is Scorpio and the Lord Mars is 3 rd to 
Scorpio. From Mars 3 rd house is Pisces. 

That is Pisces is Putra pada: 

(Incidentally the native's son and daughter both are 
born in Pisces Lagna.) 

6 th house is Sagittarius and the lord Jupiter is posited 
in the same house. Therefore 10 th from it that is Virgo 
becomes the A rood ha pada. 

That is Virgo is Roga pada 

(Ironically, the native has very large number of 
friends circle yet there are enmity factors and suffered 
nerves and digestive health problems.) 

7 th house is Capricorn the lord Saturn is 8 th from it 
that is Pisces is Aroodha pada. 

That is Pisces is Dara pada 

(Wife of native is Pisces Lagna) 

8 th house is Aquarius the lord Saturn is 7 th from it. 
Therefore 10 th from 7 th will be Aroodha pada 

That is Scorpio is Mrityu Aroodha pada 

(Right from child hood the native suffered with 
violent attacks and met with accidents and suffered lot) 

9 th house is Pisces and Jupiter the lord is 10 th from 
it. 10 th from Jupiter is Virgo. 

That is Virgo is Pitru pada 

(Native's father also worked as clerk and he was 
also interested in writing dramas etc.) 

10 th House house is Aries and Lord Mars is 10 th from 
it. Libra is Aroodha pada 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Keralam 115 



That is Libra is Karma pada. 

(Libra represents commercial place and the native 
worked in private commercial organizations in finance 
and accounts dept) 

11 th House is Taurus and the lord Venus is in 8 th from 
it. From Venus 8 th is Cancer. 

That is Cancer is Labha pada 

(Being an enemy to Venus, the Moon has not given 
any material benefit to native) 

12 th House is Gemini the lord is in 8 th from it. 8 th 
from Mercury is Leo is Aroodha pada. 

(Native had to spend away all his earnings, there 
was no help from father's side as Sun is karaka for 
father) 

Now let us see what the Chandra Kala Naadi says about 
Padas. 

One will enjoy prosperity and fame if Venus is having 
relationship with Aroodha pada of Lagna or to 9 th house by 
aspect or association. 

Native's Aroodha Lagna pada is Aries and Venus does 
not have any relationship. 9 th house is Pisces and even 
then the Venus is not having any relationship by aspect 
but he is having relationship with the lord of 9 th . Off- 
course native got a two wheeler, a house and a land but 
all lost. This is due to relationship took place in 6 th house 
and badly influenced by Rahu from 10 th . 

If Venus is 11 th from Aroodha Lagna having strength and 
good aspect or Venus be in the ascendant with Moon it will 
grant conveyances and good position 

Lagna Aroodha is Aries and the Venus is not in 11 th 
to it. Nothing good happened. 



116 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Book 2 part 2 sloka 55 onwards 

Lakshmi yoga: 

Most malefic planets Saturn and Mars in upachaya especially 
in 3 rd house and another upachaya house 6 th occupied by Sun. 
Benefic occupy Kendra or Kona especially Jupiter in Lagna, Venus 
in 5 th and Moon having full strength and exalted causes Lakshmi 
yoga. Since Rahu and Ketu are malefic in nature they are good 
in in other upachaya houses. 

Note: This indicates the general principle of 
traditional astrology where benefic results are to be 
predicted if Benefic occupying Kendra and Kona while 
malefic occupy upachaya houses and Moon having 
strength 



Book 2 part 2 sloka 60 onwards: 

Akhanda Saamrajya Yoga: 

Persons havng these yoga will be highly placed politically. 
This yoga is possible for only 4 ascendants as shown below, 
where Jupiter rules one or two houses from 2, 5, 11. 





No 
Malefics 


Lagna 
Taurus 




No 
Malefics 










) Condition 

Mer or Sat or Jup 
/ Should be 
Kendra to Mon 
/ Malefics: 
' Sa, Ma, Wk Mo 
Ra, Ke 






^ Condition . 

Mer or Ven 

Should be 

Kendra to Mon 

Malefics: 

Sa, Ma, Wk Mo 

Ra, Ke 


* No 
Malefics 


1 






Lagna 
Leo 


t 

No 
Malefics 

















Classicai Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Keralam 117 



No 
Malefics 

jr , 



Conditio) 

Jup or Sun or 
Should be 
Kendra to M< 
Malefics: 
Sa, Ma, Wk 
Ra, Ke 



ler 



Lagna 
Scorpio 



No 
Malefics 



■7 



No/ 
Malefics 



Condition 

Jup or Mar 

Should be 

Kendra to Mon 

Malefics: 

Sa, Wk Mo 

Ra, Ke 



x 



No 
Malefics 



If any one of the conditions is not fulfilled the yoga 
may not fructify. If the pivotal Moon itself is weak and 
placed in 8 th or 12 th then it may turn out to be Avayoga 
causing miserable situations. 

Book 2 Part 2 sloka 69 onwards 

Effects of Three planets: 

If there are three exalted planets in a horoscope the person 
will be highly intelligent. If three planets occupy own signs he 
will have political status. If three planets are in debilitation and 
not qualified to be in yoga, it indicates dull headed person 
suffering in life. 

This also is a generalized combination, the exaltation 
and debilitation are linked to yoga dignities considered 
differently for each ascendant. Author hints about this 
referring to debilitated planet participating results in 
avayoga. 



Book 2 part 2 sloka 70 onwards 

Maha Pandita Yoga 

The following illustrations will give the combination for this 
yoga which is possible for three Lagnas: 



118 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Sun and Mercury in Lagna and either of them getting exalted 





Lagna 

Aries 
Su Me 
















Condition 

Sun and Mer in 
Lagna where 
Sun Exalted 






Condition 

Sun and Mer ir\ 

Lagna where 
Mer Exalted 










k 
















Lagna 
Virgo 
SuMe 



Jupiter exalted in Lagna 













Condition 

Jup alone 

Exalted in 
Lagna 


Lagna 
Cancer 
Jup Ex 















Person born in the above yoga will be scholars, scientists 
and will lead governing position in life. 

Note: the effect of this yoga may be reduced or 
nullified or modified due to influence of malefic planets 
or due to association of functional dignities of planets. 



Book 2 part 2 sloka 80 onwards 

Results of Sun through Navamsa position: 

Sun in dual signs falling in 4 th pada division denoting 
Capricorn, Cancer and Aries Navamsa will reduce the life span. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Kerafam 1 19 

The Pisces as dual sign is not mentioned in the text, 
though Sun gets Libra Navamsa here. In the above cases 
Aries is the exalted sign of Sun and the rest of them or 
4 th and 10 th Kendra houses. The logic here is exalted 
Sun and its Kendra are considered omitting the 
debilitation sign of Sun placed in 8 th position in Navamsa 
Sun is strong enough to afflict longevity. In Libra he 
will be weak. 

Book 2 part 2 sfoka 81 onwards 

The effects of Sun and Saturn through their positions: 

Dangers to father and to paternal relations are to be 
predicted if Sun is in 12 th or Saturn in Aswini Nakshatra or if 
posited in 3, 7, 11 or 10 th from Lagna 

This is generalized effect. There is a dictum that if 
Karaka is in 12 th the effective relative will thrive. This 
dictum from Bhavartha Ratnakara stands for repeated 
test. 

However the position of Sun in 12 th may denote 
differently depending upon its lordship to particular 
Lagna. Therefore, this simply by taking Sun in 12 th does 
not indicate danger to father or paternal relatives. 

Sun in Aswini Nakshatra, the only reason found to 
support the author's dictum is that in Aswini star Sun 
gets exalted. The space factor of blessed place of Sun is 
afflicted by Malefic. 

If Saturn is posited in 3 rd and 7 th it aspects 9 th palce denoting 
father. From 11 th he throws his aspect on Lagna, 5 th house and 
8 th house. 8 th is 12 th to 9 th and 11 th house is house of longevity 
for father and 5 th house becomes house of native. 11 th also 
indicates paternal relatives. Thus these houses are under the 
spell of Saturn as powerful malefic. 

These are generalized effects in Bhava analysis. 
Other components needs to be considered before 
prediction. 



120 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Death of father: 

From Lagna if Moon is in 5 th havng aspect of Mars and 
Saturn, the 1 st Dasha of the native will cause danger to father. 
Timing of event can be further pin pointed by the sub period 
lord who should be dispositor to Dasha lord in Dasamasa. 



Example horoscope: 

RaVe 



Ma Su Ju 



Mo 



Ra 14:52 






Ve 27:43 




Female Birth 

July 26 1931 

at 7:11:03 Bosten 

71W03 - 45N21 

USA 
Outer Dasarr^a^ 


Ju 9:08 

Su 9:38 




Me 3:38 
la 9:48 


Sa 26:0§ 
Mo 3:42, 


^ 




Ke 12:52 
Ma 3:20 







Sa 



Ke 

Me 



Lagna: 

Ketu Dasha- 13-8-1929 to 13-08-1936 
Mercury Bhukti 17-8-1935 to 13-08-1936 

The native had lost her father during February 22 1936 
that is when she was only 5 years old. Moon is in 5 th from Lagna 
along with Saturn and Mars is having aspect on Moon. 
Incidentally Mars is also 9 th Lord placed 6 th from his own 9 th 
house along with Ketu. 

The running dash at that time was Ketu and Antar 
Dasha is of Mercury who is the dispositor of Ketu the 
Dasha lord in Virgo Dasamasa. Antara of Mars was 
running at the time of death. Mars is in Mercury 
Dasamasa who in Amsha chart links both Dasha and 
Bhukti lord in Dasamasa. 

Not necessarily this yoga should only indicate early 
death of father, this is one of such rules rarely seen in 
horoscopes. The Karmamsa is of important factor, and 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Keralam 121 

other factors of longevity from the father's horoscope 
are essential to decide. 

Book 2 part 2 sloka 92 onwards 

Venus posited in 5 th or 2 nd and the dispositor that is the 
sign lord of 5 th or 2 nd is strong then, royal favours are predicted. 

2 nd lord strongly placed in 7 th while Moon in 2 nd while Mercury 
placed in Aries and exalted Venus along with Sun, will make the 
native live long with wealth, ruler ship, scholarly disposition 
and fame and pleasures having dual spouse. 

Out of 6 th , 8 th and 12 th lords two of them are placed in 
mutual aspect or if all of them interchange their houses it should 
be Raja yoga. This is what is known as Vipareeta raja 
yoga irrationally followed by astrologers. 

Short life: 

Conjunction of 6 th and 8 th lord in aspect or association of 
Saturn results in short life: (8 th lord and Saturn association gives 
long life when 6 th relationship is not there) 

Love affair with married woman 

Venus posited in 3, 7, 11 hsving an aspect or conjunction 
with a malefic the native involves in love affair with a married 
woman and depends on women for his livelihood. 

Note: Not always the above combination seems to be 
working. Venus even if posited in 6 th having benefic and malefic 
association love with married woman has been recorded, (though 
not dependent on her earnings.) 

Book 2 part 2 sloka 100 onwards 

Conjunction of Moon and Venus in Artha Trines that is 2, 6, 
10 indicates the royal favours from the daughter of elite 
personality. 



122 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

(Basically, such simple combinations adding up 
house matters do not function independently. Normally 
when Venus and Moon conjunct the native will lose 
money or will have lesser income. His wife will be spend- 
thrift and fickle minded. He will have artistic nature. In 
a woman's chart this combinations indicates the 
capricious nature of the lady. These Karakatwa based 
predictions repeatedly proved correct. The house level 
dignities must also fulfill other conditions to get the cited 
results.) 

Getting assocation of princes: 

Venus in 4 th , 7 th , 8 th or 12 th having a malefic influence or 
Venus exalted and posited in 7 th lord's Navamsa, the native 
gets union with a woman of elite circle. 

Alternatively the scribe observed: 

Venus having similar position and getting malefic 
influence and placed in 12 th lord's Navamsa should result 
in joining with other caste woman. It can also result in 
dual marital life. 

Getting Honour of royal type: 

9 th lord with maximum strength and having aspect of Moon 
and the trine or angle from Ascendant is posited by Mercury, 
the native will be very rich with fame and will have sons but 
deprived of brother. 

Self-realization: 

Exalted Lagna lord or Lagna lord getting Vargottama 
Navamsa and having aspect of Venus will have self-realization 
following Advaita doctrine. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Kerafam 123 



Emancipation or salvation 

Jupiter or Venus in an Angie or trine falling in 12 th sign 
counted from Navamsa ascendant, the native will be relieved 
from mundane bonds and attain moksha. 

This is the horoscope of Sri Arabindo gosh 1872 born. 







Ra 17 




Su °\5/ Ma 5 \3/ 
Ve 8 £x^ Ju 21 J\2 Ra 17 
Me 23/ \ As 25 / X 

Ke 17 8>^ Xl2 

/ MosX / X 
/ SaR 23 X/ X 




Natal Chart 
Rashi (Dl) 


Ma 5 
Ju21 
As 25 






Mo 5 

SaR 23 


Kel7 




SuO 

Ve8 

Me 23 





Su 


Mo 


Ve 
Ra 


Su p( As y(9 Ke 

s X. s Me n. 

/ MO 2^8 SgR \ 

bI v\ Ma xf 
/ 'X / 6 X 


As 


Chart 
Navamsa (D9) 




Ju 


Ma 


Ke 


Me 
SaR 







Jupiter is in Lagna Kendra. And Jupiter in Navamsa 
is 12 th to Navamsa Ascendant. Sri Arabindo a 
revolutionist turned spiritual master. 



124 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Book 2 part 2 sloka 113 onwards 

Charitable, noble disposition of native: 

9 th Lord (preferably a benefic or friend to Jupiter) along 
with Jupiter occupy auspicious, friendly or exalted sign having 
a conjunction of another benefic or being in aspect to their 
dispositer, the native will be charitable and takes up welfare 
programs of many villages and gets the association of virtuous 
persons and earns a good name. Similar effects are to be 
predicted if Jupiter aspects Moon in 2 nd and Sun in 10 th . 

Book 2 Part 2 sloka 116 onwards: 

Yogas: 

(Kahala yoga is referred to here) 

Innumerable Yogas are elaborately discussed in Phala 
Deepika which is recommended for application in the horoscope. 
A planet attaining a yoga status will have powers to bestow 
good results during its period. Apart from giving the results of 
yoga it also gets modified in preventing other evil events 
indicated in the chart. However if any of these yoga becomes 
Ava yoga, then the planet not qualified as yoga karaka status in 
the chart will bring worst experiences to native. 

1. Excluding nodes and luminaries other planets occupy 
2 nd 12 th or both the houses from Moon, Sunapha, 
Anapha and Durdura Yogas are formed: In the 
absence of any one of this yoga it is known as 
Kemadruma yoga. 

Sunapha yoga confers kingly disposition with self- 
acquired property f wisdom. Anapha yoga confers 
health, power enthusiasm, reputation and courteous 
disposition. Durdura yoga gives vehicles and 
comforts and wealth. Contrarily Kemadruma yoga 
reverses and causes suffering and tends the native 
to commit sin. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Keralam 125 

2. Except Moon other benefic planets when occupy 2 nd 
or 12 or both counted from Sun, shubhavesi, 
Shubhavasi, and Shubhayachari Yogas are formed. 
These Yogas confer meritorious, brave under 
shubhavesi, popularity and prosperity by Shubhavasi 
and Shubhayachari gives fame and eloquent 
speaking capability. Malefics forming this yoga 
reverses the good effects and gives evil effects. 

There are innumerable Yogas given in other classical 
texts and it is beyond the scope of this work to 
reproduce them. 

Aroodhadhipathi and Hora lagnadhipathi should be benefic 
and should be posited in benefic house to have overall wealthy 
and noted person among the relatives. 

A person will have luxurious vehicles if Moon in fixed Lagna 
having Jupiter in 2 nd or 11 th . 

When Jupiter influences the Lord of 4 th or 9 th royal favours 
and riches can be expected. On the contrary the malefic influence 
cause wrath from higher ups and loss in wealth. 

Native having Lagna lord in 11 th house and the dispositor 
of Lagna lord is n 9 th and 9 th lord is is in 10 th or along with 10 th 
or 2 nd lord, will have great fortune. 

(This supports the dispositor theory) 

Mani pravala Yoga: 

1. Benefic Planet must be exalted in 2 nd or 3 rd house while a 
malefic planet must be in debilitated condition anywhere in 
the horoscope. 

2. 4 th or 5 th house should have an exalted benefic. 

3. A malefic must get exalted in 8 th while a benefic should be 
in an exalted 9 th house. 



126 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Any one of the condition being fulfilled the person will have 
wealth and fortune. 

What will happen if one condition fulfills and the other 
condition reverses the position? There must be a yoga and then 
yoga bhanga. This is to be determined by the timing of events 
based on the planets involved. 

For any yoga to fructify the Dasha of the planet involved in 
yoga must operate. Therefore, the time factor of yoga is very 
important. 

Spouse & Marriage 

The lord of sign where Venus is posited in Navamsa if exalted 
in Lagna chart early marriage is indicated. Saturn placed in 7 th 
house will give marriage during ending time of his Dasha. 

Important clue: A planet during his Dasha will give 
the result of its dispositor and then the planet closely 
conjunct, of the planet in exchange with it, then the 
planets posited in Kendra, next planets posited in Kona, 
lastly planets posited in mutual aspect. Lastly the house 
occupied by it and houses under its aspect. 
Predominantly in all the house results the natural 
signification and its Bhava karaka significations 
influence the matter. 

Malefic in 7 th house and the 7 th lord is conjunct with another 
mafefic indicate the infected womb of wife causing conception 
problems. 

Note; 7 th house as space matter indicate the spouse. 
A malefic in it indicates defects in the body of the spouse 
being Lagna to spouse. 7 th lord is antarbhava the inner 
section and 7 th is also 4 th to 4 th and therefore, their 
associations with another malefic indicate the infection 
in the womb. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Keralam 127 

One of the Jupiter's sign being 7 th house having 9 th lord 
posited in it and the Jupiter is placed in 10 th house with, a malefic 
the native will get a physically handicapped girl as wife. 

Note: For Gemini Ascendant 7 th house is Sagittarius, 
and for Virgo ascendant 7 th house is Pisces. For Gemini 
9 th lord is Saturn. 9 th house indicates thighs and Saturn 
indicates legs and being malefic in 9 th afflicts that part. 
For Virgo ascendant, 9 th house is Taurus which indicates 
neck portion and Venus indicates the same portion. 
Venus 9 th lord in Pisces again indicates feet. Venus is an 
enemy planet to Jupiter. In both the cases when the 
dispositor of 7 th Jupiter conjunct with a malefic posited 
in 10 th indicate affliction to legs in one case and in 
another case the extremities of shoulders. 

Conjunction of Rahu and Sun in 7 th house will cause two 
sickly wives. If Jupiter influences this they may be healthy. 

Similar effect can also be predicted if Saturn is in 7 th and 
Rahu in 9 th 

Lagna and 9 th house both are occupied by malefics and 
Moon is afflicted, the person may have multiple marriages. 

9 th house or the 2 nd house if occupied or having aspect of 
malefic and the lords of 9 th or 2 nd as the case may be if weak 
then the native will get remarriage. 

Good education: 

Strong 4 th lord or Mercury occupying Lagna or 
conjunct with Lord of Lagna without any malefic 
influence will indicate the intellectual background of the 
native with great learning abilities. 

Rahu in Lagna influenced by Saturn will cause fever, trouble 
from poison and fire or fear of imprisonment, skin diseases and 
the native may resort to secret evil acts and may trouble or get 
troubled from foreigners or foreign matters. 



128 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Book 2 part 2 sloka 479 onwards 

Sub periods of lords of 6 th and 8 th of any running Dasha 
native suffers from ill health during the days ruled by 6 th or 8 th 
lord as the case may be. Sun's transit in adverse signs indicates 
the month. Disease may commence on the week day ruled by 
Sub period or the Dasha lord. 

No auspicious results can be expected of a weak malefic 
planet's period. 

Effects of Dasha Lord: 

Book 2 part 2 sloka 423 onwards 

The strength of Dasha lord is considered here. 

In a strong Dasha lord's period all round prosperity can be 
expected by native. 

If he has average strength the efforts of the native will 
yield slow, or disturbed or negative results. If it has least strength 
native may lose his wealth, dignity, troubled family circumstances 
and ill health. In completely weak Dasha lord period, native 
may face crucial health, wealth and relational problem. 

Note: The strength here is not simply shadbala; it 
includes Adhipatya Bala which is directly related to yoga 
and Avayoga concept. A natural malefic attaining yoga 
status if exalted and gets full strength it loses its yoga 
capabilities and even turnout to be an Avayoga karaka. 
Therefore, the above generalized effect may suit if only 
natural Karakatwa of planets are considered during the 
period of Dasha planet. 

Dash of a planet is indicating the physical decay, if survives 
will have displeasures. A Dasha of a planet in the division of a 
yoga karaka will bestow desirable material benefits along with 
good relational happiness. If it is in the divisions of adverse 
planet all evil effects can be predicted. 



Classical Naadl Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Kerafam 129 



Note: Yoga planets as prescribed by Parasara, 
clarified by Jaataka Chandrika and Bhavartha Ratnakara 
with regard to Lagna based Adhipatya yoga dignities, 
Pancha Maha Purusha Yogas and planets involved in the 
yoga caused by luminaires are all to be considered when 
the amshas of Dasha planet in yoga karaka planet being 
decided. 

Dasha lord not having strength (subject to yoga karaka 
conditions) or placed in any one of evil houses 6, 8, 12 (not 
beng a house that promotes a planet to yoga status) or if it is 
associated or having apsect of dispositor of evil lords, loss of 
wealth and health can be predicted. The participation of evil 
lord as enemy to Dasha lord will cause distress due to enemies. 
Planets involved in causing evil effects will show their effect in 
their sub periods of the main Dasha lord. 

Jupiter in Pisces: 

Jupiter in Pisces will give knowledge, peace and 
virtue and the native will have royal patronage. Some 
other texts mention more favorable results. Basically 
this indicates preaching ability. 

Jupiter in 10 th 

10 th Jupiter indicates minister ship. Being in 10 th if it falls in 
Navamsa of a friend makes the native closer to royal dignities. 
In enemy Navamsa will face trouble from such elite persons. 
Apart from it being the 12 th sign in the natural zodiac it restricts 
sexual enjoyments but promotes scholarly disposition with wealth 
factors being Dhana karaka in own house. He will be inclined to 
charitable activities. 

If Jupiter gets the Navamsa of Saturn, the native may resort 
to irreligious activities and will be untruthful and develops 
disputes among friends, kith and kin. 

Note: This is just a common indication based on simple 
rule of Bhava analysis. The results are subjected to drastic 



1 30 Roots of Neadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



reverse in case this position attracts Avayoga due to different 
Lordship Jupiter rules. The effect of getting Saturn Amsha is 
biased opinion of malefic nature of Saturn. Without considering 
lordship effect merely on the malefic nature of Saturn the results 
cannot be confirmed. 

Jupiter in Libra Navamsa: 

He will have enmity with paternal uncle and will be close to 
children of maternal aunt. 

Book 2 part 2 sloka 461 onwards: 

Saturn transiting in Swati star will cause destruction of 
enemies. While Saturn in Swati Sun's transit in Capricorn through 
Pisces will help befriending enemies. Sun transiting in Aries will 
cause destruction of enemies. Sun's transit in Gemini will cause 
little distress but while transiting in Cancer all difficulties will be 
solved and success will prevail. 

Saturn transiting in Visakha will enable to reconcile with 
enemies and enjoy happiness. 

Saturn transiting in the 3 rd star counted from birth star 
(Note birth star not necessarily be from Moon. According 
to Satyacharya the birth Lagna or Moon whichever is 
stronger is to be considering as birth star) the native 
conquer enemies yet suffer from fear complex. In 4 th star the 
native may face difficulties due to external disturbances relating 
to that place and may involve in disputes with authorities. In 
2 nd and 4* star the death of elite circle may cause trouble to the 
native and his relatives. 

Note: There are references to mundane matters like 
social and political disturbances. Logically these matters 
cannot be studied from an individual horoscope. The 
scribe has taken the meaning of such mundane 
prediction and incorporated in individual matters. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadl - Deva Keraiam 131 

Some results are given for transit of Saturn in various 
Stars. 

In Birth star Saturn transit will raw* grief, rift with royals 
and unsteady financial progress. 

In 2 nd star - Wealth, comforts, ornaments 

In 3 rd star - loss of cattle, lands wealth, diseases de-linking 
of relatives, disputes with servants and short temperaments 

In 4 th star - Will enjoy wealth, food, comforts and good 

news 

In 5 th star -Rift with authorities, financial crises, obstructions 
in ventures and grief 

In 6 th star - Success, progeny, procurement of wealth and 
land and recognition 

In 7 th star - Difficulties, diseases due to disturbed humors 
in the body. 

In 8 th star - Union with friends, honour from elites, 
ornaments, conveyances and bed comforts 

In 9 th star- Will have royal friendship, association of virtuous 
people, gain of knowledge and will obey royal instructions, visits 
of kith and kin and enjoy good health 

Note: This is general odd and even star position as given in 
Tara Bala, This needs other considerations and cannot be taken 
strictly based on Saturn without assigning horoscope dignities. 

Saturn transiting in 12 th house 

If 12 th house happens to be of Venus or Mercury, then the 
native will contemplate on low caste woman or woman who 
aborted a child or a young girl attained puberty. He will be 
worried about progeny and may suffer from fever, phlegm, 
indigestion but gains materially. 



132 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Saturn transit from Moon sign: 

1 st house - Transit of Saturn in Moon sign results in disputes 
and litigations 

In 2 nd house - Loss of money and trouble from enemies 

In 3 rd house - Happiness, progeny, success in competition 
good food and fulfillment of desires 

In 4 th house - Destruction of progeny, wealth, cattle, failure 
in land ventures, degradation of honour and enmity with friends 

In 5 th house- Mental aberration, worries and committing 
mistakes 

In 6 th house - Happiness and wealth 

In 7 th house - Problems to wife and progeny and servants 

In 8 th house - Troubles, distress and grief 

In 9 th house - Sinful acts, pitiable conditions and trouble 
due to opposite sex association, declined prosperity. 

In 10 th house - Defame, fear and blames 

In 11 th house - Promotion and status, wealth 

In 12 th house - Afflictions to limbs, grief, humiliation, 
diseases and worries 

Note: Dreadful seven and a half year transit of Saturn 
in 12 th , 1 st , 2 nd houses reckoned from Moon and the 
Ardhashtama 4 th house transit, Ashtama 8 th house 
transit equally fearsome are deceptively warned to the 
clients in general. Worst possible maleficence 
significations are attributed to Planet Saturn. 
Innumerable incidents are noted with high profile 
progress during these periods to many nativities. 
Arguably the status of Saturn first entering on 12 th , 1 st , 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Keralam 133 



2 nd house is compared with dignities like Rajata, Tambra, 
Swarna and Loha considering the transit position of 
Moon reckoned from birth Moon at the time of entry of 
Saturn in the these houses as follows: 

At the time of entry of Saturn in any of the houses 
12 th , 1 st , 2 nd to Moon if transit Moon is in: 

1 st , 6 th , 11 th to birth Moon Swarna Golden form 
Highly favorable. In 2 nd , 5 th , 9 th to birth Moon Rajata 
Silver form favorable. In 3 rd , 7 th , 10 th to birth Moon 
Tamara Copper form Unfavorable. In 4 th , 8 th , 12* to birth 
Moon Loha Iron form Highly unfavorable 

In the example horoscope the native had his second 
round of Saturn and in 12 th house when Saturn entered 
Moon was in 6 th and Saturn dignified as Swarna form. 



As 21 


KelO 


JuR5 




Transit 
Moon 6th 
to Birth 
Moon 


Natal Chart 
Rahi (Dl) 


Sa22 






Swarna 
Murti 
Highly 
Favourable 






1-11-2006 

Saturn 

Entry 












Ve8 


5u5 

Ra 10 
Mal5 


Me 25 
Mo 25 





KelO 


As 21 


Transit Moon 

6th to Birth 

Moon 


/ 


\l/ 

JuR5 2X 


\11/ 






\l2 / / 






3 XX 9 






/ 6 \ 




5a22 4>< 
/ 5 x 


Me 25 
Mo 25 


><8 Ve8 

/7\ 


/ 


Hi- 2006 
Saturn Entry 


/ 5u5 N 

Ra 10 Ma 15 





Indeed this was good period for native, where he 
got promotion, purchased vehicle and got married and 
celebrated the marriage of his sister. Saturn entered in 
on birth Moon and at that time the Moon was in 8 th to 
his birth Moon dignifying Saturn as Loha form. 



134 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 





Transit 

Moon 8th 


















As 21 


to Birth 

Moon 


JuR5 




\ KelO 

\l/ 

JuR5 p( 

5a 22 4>< 
/ 5 X 




Transit Moon 

6th to Birth 

\ Moon / 


/ 


Ke 10 




XllX 






Natal Chart 
Rahi (Dl) 


5a 22 


As 21 yX lu 

\l2/ \. 

/ 6X^ / 

Me 25 X / 
Mo 25 /7\ 

, / Su 5 \ 

\/ Ra 10Mal5\ 














Loha Murti 

Highly 

Unfavourable 












Ve8 


Su5 

Ra 10 
Mal5 


Me 25 
Mo 25 


/ 


1 11-2006 
Saturn Entry 


10-9-2009 












Saturn 
Entry 













In this period the native had changed job twice and 
both the changes were only good and got higher salaries, 
of-course there was little health problems which is of 
general nature. There have been problems in working 
environment. But nothing unfavorable as indicated by 
Loha form of Saturn happened. 

Transit of Saturn in Libra will take the form of Tamra 
which is lesser unfavorable than Loha. 

Not only that even the native's father had seven and 
a half year period and during its period he had name, 
fame and comfortable living though retired from service. 
No doubt he had health problems which are generally 
caused due to old age. 

Before jumping into conclusion attributing all evil 
significations to Saturn, it is better to closely study the 
horoscope and ensure the Dasha periods and overall 
strength of Lagna and the houses operative under Dasha 
bhukti lords. In Naadi Saturn is karma karaka, he is the 
most noblest planet who does not cause harm but simply 
transfers the effect of past deeds either good or bad. 
This logic seems to be very convincing and found that 
the transit of Saturn over Jupiter, gives a career 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Keraiam 135 



upliftments, on Venus it promotes wealth factors and 
on Mercury knowledge and business factors. The scribe 
normally interlinks traditional Dasha bhukti and the 
transit position of Naadi to arrive at the quality of results 
by transit of Saturn. This would be safe factor instead 
of creating fear in clients by declaring all evils during 
Sade sati 

Diseases: 

Saturn transit over the sign which happens to be the 
Navamsa sign of Ketu, the person suffers from diseases causing 
pain etc. Recovery from such diseases will also be early. 

Note: This on verification found to be not fully 
applicable, whereas, if Saturn is transiting in a Navamsa 
sign of enemy planets and simultaneously in the natal 
chart if those enemy planets are posited in trine to this 
transiting sign or having aspect with Saturn or with a 
planet having aspect to Saturn diseases suffered by 
natives are invariably found correct. Again the Dasha of 
planets and its strength etc. are to be taken in to 
account. 

Saturn transiting in Aswini Makha or Moola while a malefic 
in natal planet is placed in these stars, great danger and diseases 
are. experienced by native: 

Note: This is also a general observation, but actually 
no such serious effects are found in many of the 
horoscope, instead when Saturn transits over natal Ketu, 
there have been problems of health and profession. 

Navamsa sign of 8 th lord to any given Bhava will yield bad 
results when Saturn transits the said Navamsa sign, 

Week days, birth star and related results: 

If the birth star of a person coincides with the weekday of 
birth then auspicious results are predicted. This is especially 



136 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

true if the birth star is benefic and the day lord is friendly to the 
birth star. 

Born on Monday the person will have liking for flowers, 
sexual enjoyment and happiness. 

On Tuesday - grief, self-destruction and quarrels 

On Wednesday - Learning, intoxication, wealth and 
enjoyments 

On Thursday - Physical happiness and wealth 

On Friday - sexual pleasures and happiness getting 
ornaments 

On Saturday - fear, diseases and difficulties 

The translator disagrees with the coinciding birth 
star with weekday and gives the following results on 
different weekdays. 

Birth on Sunday: 

With a life span of 60 years the native may encounter 
dangers in either 1 st or 6 th month or in 22 nd /23 rd year. 

Birth on Monday: 

11 th month, 26^/27* year may be dangerous he may live 
upto 84 years. 

Birth on Tuesday: 

He may face troubles in 2 nd or 22 nd year and suffer from ill 
health in his life and may live unto 74 years 

Birth on Wednesday: 

8 th month or 8 th year will be danger and will live 64 years 

Birth on Thursday: 

7 th month 13^/16* year will have problems and live unto 
84 years 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Keralam 137 

Birth on Friday: 

Always healthy will have longevity unto 60 th year 

Birth on Saturday: 

1 st month and 13 th year will encounter danger and will live 
unto 100 years. 

Extending this one can also coincide the birth star 
and birth week and make good or bad predictions. 

Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and the stars 
of Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus are benefit week 
days and benefic stars. 

Sunday, Tuesday and Saturdays and the stars of Sun, 
Mars, and Saturn are malefic days and stars. 

These snap shot predictions are generalized and this 
cannot be accounted for accuracy. 

Some of the General Principles from Book 3 

1 Navamsa dispositor of lords of 6 th , 8 th and 12 th happens to 
be natural benefic the enemies of native will get destructed. 

2 Spouse is represented by 7 th its lord and Venus. If 7 th lord 
is in debilitated Navamsa troubles to in-laws can be 
predicted. 

3 Strong Saturn having lords of 1 st , 8 th and 10 th in angles or 
trines or 11 th to ascendant, will indicate long life. 

4 Mars in Ascendant, Saturn in 8 th while 8 th lord is with Rahu 
will have a medium life and will fall sick at the age of 54 
years, 

5 3 rd house influenced by Mars will make native truthful. That 
is malefic in 3 rd bestow good results. 



138 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Special rules for transit: 

Count the 5 th lord from Moon and also from Jupiter and 
note their longitude and add them, the point of this longitude 
when transited by Saturn and the 5 th lord is having a benefic 
aspect at the time of transit birth of child can be predicted. 

The sum of longitude of 4 th and 11 th lords falling in a sign, 
when transited by Saturn, gain of properties and happiness to 
be predicted 

Longitude falling in the sign when the 2 nd lords and 11 th 
lord degrees are added, when transited by Jupiter having another 
benefic aspect at that time will give wealth 

Total longitudes of Mars, 2 nd and 5 th lords when transited 
by Saturn will give loss of wealth and cattle. 

The sign position derived by adding longitude of 1 st , 5 th 
and 7 th when transited by Saturn having aspect to 10 th lords 
professional fulfillments are indicated 

Saturn with an aspect to Jupiter when transit a place of 
sum total of longitude of 2 nd , 10 th 11 th lords will give pleasure of 
women or marriage 

Place denoted by the sum total of degrees of 2 nd , 10 th and 
11 th lords when occupied by transit Jupiter with an aspect to 
Moon will indicate financial gains. 

Saturn while transiting a place derived by the sum total of 
longitudes of 1 st , 4 th , 2 nd and 11 th lords will cause marriage, 
gain of lands and conveyance. 

The longitude of sum total of 2 nd , 9 th and 12 th lords when 
transited by Saturn having a benefic aspect will result in loss of 
wealth and grief. 

Longitude place of sum of 5 th and 12 th lords when transited 
by Saturn will cause evil effects to progeny. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Keralam 139 

Harm to co born is to be predicted when Saturn transits on 
the sum total longitude place of 3 rd and 12 th lords or the place 
derived by adding longitude of 6 th lord to above two lords. 

Sign place derived by total of 5 th and 12 th lords degrees 
when transited by Saturn progeny problems, and if Rahu joins 
Saturn danger to wife can be predicted. 

Total of degrees of 1 st lord 10 th lord 11 th lord when transited 
by Jupiter, Moon or Mercury will cause pilgrimage. 

Total longitude place of sum of degrees of 3 rd , 11 th 12 th 
lords when transited by Rahu with an aspect of inimical planet 
to him will cause loss of co born and ill health to native. 

5 th , 11 th and 12 th lord's total degrees when transited by 
Mars, bad effects to progeny is indicated 

Longitude place of total of 1 st , 2 nd and 11 th lords from 
Ascendant or Moon or Jupiter, when Saturn transit or transit in 
its trine places financial gains are indicated provided the benefic 
aspect is influencing Moon, Jupiter or Venus. 

The place derived by adding the degrees of 3 rd and 8 th 
lords when transited by Ketu, professional displacement and 
displeasures are possible. Saturn transit here may cause death 
of native. 

Saturn transiting in the place denoted by the sum total of 
dusthana lords, will indicate death to a person born in day time 
and if the transit taking place 7 th to the place derived, then 
death of night born person can be predicted. 

The sign where the total degrees of Saturn Gulika and Rahu 
when transited by Saturn, Ketu or Mars death of native can be 
predicted 

Add the longitude of 6 th lord from Ascendant, from Moon 
and from 4 th lord. When this sign of sum total or its trine transited 
by Saturn separation from mother will be caused 



140 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Example: 

In the example horoscope: the sum total of 6 th lord 
from 4 th lord and Moon happens to be Saturn posited in 
Cancer at 112:08. From Ascendant 6 th lord is Sun who is 
in 185:39. Total is 297:47 which falls in Capricorn. In 
2000 October 20 th Saturn was transiting in Taurus which 
is trine to Capricorn, the native lost his mother. 

These are similar to sahams which elaborately described in 
Tajaka system. 

However, the scribe noted many of such combination 
do not always yield the prescribed results. The transit 
results are predominant when it touches the karaka 
planets or its trines. 

There is a reference to Moon's different phases 60, 36 and 
12 which are well defined in Phala Deepika. It's use is generally 
well suited in Prashna and Muhurtha. The logic of using this in 
Birth chart is not much elaborated. However this will be very 
much useful in Naadi readings to understand the status of mind 
at the time of query. 

The words used in results are to be modified to suit the 
modern world. Simple terminology is used giving the meaning 
of the Sanskrit sloka. Therefore, the same is reproduced here 
for the benefit of readers 



Chandra Krlya 
Moon's 


RESULTS 


Chandra Krlya 
Moon's 


RESULTS 


0:Q0:00 


0:13:20 


1 


Degrade from position 


6:40;GG 


6:53:20 


31 


Wealth lost 


0:13:20 


©:26>40 


2 


Practicing penance 


6:53:20 


7:06:40 


32 


Royal employee 


0:26:4O 


0:40:00 


3 


inclined towards others wives 


7:06:40 


7:20 :00 


33 


Good minister or adviser 


0:40:00 


0:53:20 


4 


Greedy 


7:20:00 


7:33:20 


34 


Owns other's land 


0:53:20 


1:06:40 


5 


Gambling* 


7:33:20 


7:46:40 


35 


Having a wife 


1:06:40 


l:2O:0O 


6 


Mounted on mighty elephant 


7:46:4© 


3:00:00 


36 


Fear of elephants 


1:20:00 


1:33:20 


7 


Occupying throne 


8:00:00 


3:13:20 


37 


Cowardice in fight 


133: 20 


1:46 :40 


S 


Royal status 


8:13:20 


8:26:40 


33 


Timid 


1:46:40 


2:00:00 


9 


Destroyer of enemies 


8:26:40 


8;40:00 


39 


Sportive 


2iO0:O0 


2:13:20 


10 


Lord of Justice 


3:40:00 


3:53:20 


40 


Giver of food 


2:13:20 


2:26:40 


11 


talented/Virtues 


0:53:20 


9:06:40 


41 


Performs agnihotra 


2:26:40 


2:40:00 


12 


Lifeless person 


9:06:40 


9:20:00 


42 


Hunger 


2:40:00 


2:53:20 


13 


headless person 


9:20:00 


9:33:20 


43 


Food thought 


2:53:20 


3:06:40 


14 


teas and arms injured 


9:33:20 


9:46:40 


44 


Flesh eater 


3:06:4O 


3:20:O© 


15 


in confinement 


9:46:40 


10:00:00 


45 


Injury by weapon 


3:20:00 


3:33:20 


16 


toss 


10:00:00 


10:13:20 


46 


Marriage 


3:33:20 


3:46:40 


17 


Elite status 


10:13:20 


10:26:4O 


47 


Sail in Hand 


3:46:40 


4;00:O0 


IS 


Spiritual knowledge 


10:26:40 


10:40:00 


43 


Gambler 


4:00:00 


4:13:20 


19 


Deep trance 


10:40:00 


10:53:20 


49 


Minister 


4:13:20 


4:26:40 


20 


Good background 


10:53:20 


ll."06;4Q 


50 


Grief 


4:26:40 


4:40:00 


21 


Knowledge of scriptures 


11:06;40 


11.20:00 


51 


Sleeping on Bed 


4:40:00 


4:53:20 


22 


Charitable 


11:20:00 


11:33:20 


52 


Honoured by enemies 


4:53:20 


5:06t40 


23 


Girth in good family 


11:33:20 


11:46:40 


53 


Endowed with friends 


5:06:40 


5:20:00 


24 


Endowed with wealth 


11:46:40 


12:00:00 


54 


sick 


5:20:O0 


5:33:20 


25; 


Famous family background 


12:00:00 


12:13:20 


55 


Endowed with wife 


5:33:20 


5:46:40 


26 


Concept preacher 


12:13:20 


12:26:40 


56 


Eats Sweet food 


5:46:40 


6:00:00 


27 


Destruction of enemy 


12:26:40 


12:40:00 


57 


Drinking Milk 


6:00:00 


6:13:20 


23 


S»Ck 


12:40.00 


12:53:20 


53 


Meritorious deeds 


6:13:20 


6:26:40 


29 


Won over by enemy 


12:53:20 


13:06:40 


59 


enjoys health 


6:26:40 


6:40:00 


30 


Displaced from birth place 


13:06:40 


13:20.-00 


60 


enjoys happiness 



Ch 


o 


o 


oT 


n 


CO 
CO 




o" 


01 


Q) 


3 

a 


2: 


^ 


n> 


a 


9. 


* 


Cn 


T 


vr 




Co 


"< 


r-» 


a 


CD 

3 




CO 









:? 




03 




3 




ex 




^1 




03 




* 




U) 








<fc 




? 




03 




03 




Q. 




1 




0) 




*; 




03 




* 




cd 




■~» 




o> 








^ 




3 



142 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



36 Velas 



Chandra Vela 
Moon's active time 


RESULTS 


O;O0:OO 


0:22:13 


1 


Headache 


0:22:13 


0:44:27 


2 


Pleasure 


0:44:27 


1:06:40 


* 


Performing sacrifice 


1:06:40 


1:28:53 


4 


Happy life 


1:28:53 


1:51:07 


5 


Eye trouble 


1:51:07! 


2:13:20 


6 


Happiness 


2:13:20 


2:35:33 


7 


Joy with young damsels 


2:35:33 


2:57:47 


8 


High fever 


2:57:47 


3:20:00 


9 


Golden ornaments 


3:20:00 


3:42:13 


10 


Shedding tears 


3:42:13 


4:04:27 


11 


TaMng poison 


4:04:27 


4:26:40 


12 


Coition 


4:26:40 


4:48:53 


13 


Digestive disturbance 


4:48:53 


5:11:07 


14 


Water, merriment painting 


5:11:07 


5:33:20 


15 


Wrathful 


5:33:20 


5:55:33 


16 


Dancing 


5:55:33 


6:17:47 


17 


Ghee consuming 


6:17:47 


6:40:00 


IS 


Steep 


6:40:00 


7:02:13 


12 


Giving alms 


7:02:13 


7:24:27 


20 


tooth ache 


7:24:27 


7:46:40 


21 


Strife 


f «.*# , 0'»*WJ 


8:08:53 


22 


Journey 


8:08:53 


8:31:07 


23 


intoxication 


8:31:07 


8-33:20 


24 


Swimming 


8:53:20 


9:15:33 


25 


Opposition 


9:15:33 


9:37:47 


26 


Bathing in well 


9:37:47 


10:00:00 


27 


Hunger 


10:00:00 


10:22:13 


28 


Fear 


10:22:13 


10:44:27 


29 


teaming Sacred lore 


10:44:27 


11:06:40 


30 


Wantonness 


11:06:40 


11:28:53 


31 


Discussions 


11:28:53 


11:51:07 


32 


Fighting 


11:51:07 


12:13:20 


33 


Noble deed 


12:13:20 


12:35:33 


w**^ 


Vices 


12:35:33 


12:57:47 


35 


Evil acts 


12:57:47 


13:20:00 


36 


Rejoicing 



Classical Naadi Systems: Chandra Kala Naadi - Deva Keratam 143 



12 Avasthas 



Chandra Avasta 
Moon's disposition 


RESULTS 


0:00:00 


1:06:40 


1 


Absence from home 


1:06:40 


2t13;20 


2 


Royal favour 


2:13:20 


3:20:00 


3 


Slavery , LOSS of life 


3:20:00 


4:26:40 


4 


Ruler of the world 


4:26:40 


S:33:20 


5 


Meritorious deeds of family heritage 


3:33:20 


6:40:00 


6 


Sick 


6:40:00 


7:46:40 


7 


Conducts Royal meeting 


7:46:40 


S:S3:20 


8 


Sacred 


8^53 :20 


10:00:00 


9 


Starved 


10:00:00 


11:06:40 


10 


Marriage with youngster 


11:06:40 


12:13: 20 


11 


Sleep on comfort bed 


12:13:20 


13:20:00 


12 


Living on jgpod food 



Some of the results like mounting of elephant, Conducting 
Royal meeting etc., can be inferred like owning heavy vehicles 
and good organizing capacity. These results are to be logically 
applied to know the mental condition of the person at the time 
of consultation. 

By putting more efforts on this subject, the Naadi Amsha 
parts needs to be organized with the help of scholars, so that 
this monumental Naadi text can be put to test and made available 
to coming generation. With gratitude to the great scholar who 
put his efforts to give an English version of this text, the scribe 
ends his introductory efforts of Chandra Kala Naadi. 



Classical Naadi System 

Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 



Bhrighu Samhita is said to be existing in Hoshiyarpur and 
supposed to be having around 5 lakhs horoscopes in palm leaves. 
There are many testimonials supporting the accuracy of this 
reading. However there are some Marathi and Hindi versions 
published in later days. These contain some index to find out 
the date of birth of person and then search for the horoscope of 
the person. The contents there in are read. In most of the 
cases out of many prediction 40 to 50% seems to be matched 
and in some cases most of them are tally. The scribe verified 
with the Marathi version lying with one of his friend. About 10 
cases were located and could only get a few points tallying due 
to planetary configuration. Original work of Bhrighu Samhita 
seems to be existing in Tamil Naadu in Tamil language which is 
called Bhrighu Naadi. 

One more Naadi text which is equally famous is Nandi Naadi. 
Here also the predictions are made on planetary combinations. 
Sri R G feao of Bangalore did some extensive research on these 
two works and brought out a book called Bhrughu Nandi Naadi 
in Kannada and English. In his research process he has found 
out some techniques of prediction based on the combination of 
planet 

Taking some portions from Bhrigu and some from Nandi 
Naadi he compiled his system of prediction. 

Main concept of this system of prediction is to select a 
planet that indicates the matters of life like, Jupiter for birth of 
children, Mercury for education, Saturn for profession, Venus 
for marriages etc., 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 145 



Timing of the event is based on the transit of Jupiter, Saturn, 
Rahu and Ketu. 

The first set of rules is to select the planet for the matter 
and then combine the planets posited in 2 nd and 12 th to it and 
then take the planet in 7 th . Logically combining these 
significations will give prediction relating to the matter of the 
planet selected. Let us see how this principle is derived. This is 
the same concept of predicting through karaka planet* It is a 
well-known fact that the zodiac has 3 zones of 120 degrees 
having nine stars grouped into 3 sets. The stars are nominated 
by planet as ruler which is explicit in Vimshottari Dasha. This 
concept drives that the zones have similarity due to repetition 
of same planets in three zones. Thus trines will have same 
planets. Extending this rule planets posited in trines to each 
other are considered as being in conjunction* 

If we take a Karaka planet, the planets in its trines are 
considered to be together with Karaka planet. Therefore, planets 
in 1, 5, and 9 are grouped into one direction. The Planets in 2 nd 
place when considered, naturally its trine 6 th and 10 th positions 
are also to be considered. Similarly when a planet in 7 th is 
considered, planets its trine 3 rd and 11 th are also to be grouped. 
Likewise, a karaka planet in 12 th will get the conjunction of 
planets placed in in its trine that is 4 th and 8 th place* 

This is the theory advocated by the Scholar. This looks to 
be very simple rule but has many intricacies involved like 
retrograde pianet, exchanged planet, exalted planet, debilitated 
planet, and dispositorto a particular planet and the signs where 
these planets are posited. We will dwell into details at the later 
stage. The scribe would like to re-present a few horoscopes 
from Bhrighu Nandi Naadi and discuss the intelligent 
interpretation techniques involved in selected horoscopes. There 
are a few wonderful horoscopes which gives detailed analysis 
based on signification of planets considered for Naadi readings. 
For this purpose essential significations are tabled below: 

Sign significations play very important role to give a shape 
to particular matter under consideration. All the astrological text 



146 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



books give the sign significations. For Naadi we need some 
more detailed significations of sign. Therefore, a modified set 
of significations are tabled below for each sign of zodiac. 



Jala J**va Lay a 

Tapw 

Mofcsha. 

Practtara 

Mrifta-dravina 

(endowment) 

ttoha 

Stiftiyas 

ANUSHOCHJTA 

Ubhaya-Garbha 

15 


r> f % MESMA 

AgmDhaw- 

Stfsfi 

Oorja 

Yantra 

Dharnia 

Shawna 

Shreyaa 

Krodha 

KLtSHAKA 

Cftara 

Dwara 

7 


**£•£" VRISHA8KA 

PiHhvlMoola Sristi 
Shoga 

Anha 

Sakarana 

Preya* 

Kama 

Dravya 

ANANOtTA 

Sthtra-Bahya 

5 


JQC MITHUNA 

VayuJeeva- Sristi 

Jnana 

Kama 

Kothano 

Sahakara 

Samuhika pfavruthi 

Lobha 

Preya* 

PRAJNA 

UbhavaGarbha 

n 


AS# KUMBHA 

Vayu-MootaXay* 

Sikta 
Tantra Jnana 

Kama 

Gopya 

Lobha 

Pfeyas 

SHOOHAKA 

Sttnre6ahya 

5 


Oftarme" Refigtoua or Righteousness 

Artha*H»t*rtaBstic 

Kama*Pa & akon or desires 

&tofcsiia*Unwofidlyor logtt no oR 

AgMn«^*Ciuray at fir a 

AobM*oo» Sowca of fira (Radtanca) 

Agni-Jeeva «U(a energy (Chaftaaya) 

OtHtu-Clenwnt'Metfli-Coflstituimt part 

Hoofa*Root, Origin, Source, Basis 

J*e*a« &k? force 

Sftreyas-Prateeworfty 

Prey as - Dearer 

Kame-Wisft 

Kronna-Aflger 

Motia * Oouston 

tobha*Greea 

Mada* Pride 

Matsara ■> Jealous 

KaUuna-Expra&skm or Commuatcation 

Sanakara -cooperative 

samufltha pravnrthf - CoBecMve a ttwttr 

AMtyutrt* jriaaa-Appfted imettgence 

OatKla*Peftfttty or Punishment 

Sftta**mpregflated 

Ktesnaka-TrouNssome 

Anamlita-ftejoteed 

Anir&nocftfta-" Repented 


*59 KARKA 

Jala Dhatu Srfsti 

Chpela-Chatena 

Motane 

Pari va nana 

Prarana 

Hohe 

Preyas 

VAWCHAKA 

C hara Owara 

6 


% MAKARA 

Prithwi DhotuLaya 

Uoyama sh*«ta 

Artha 

Savaguna 

Matsaia- 

Shray-ai 

KARMtKA 

CharaDwara 

10 


SX SIMMA 

Agnl-Mocla-Slbfci 

Samaja.Aushada 

Oharma 

RajanaetM 

Shreyas 

Made 

SHRESHTA 

Slhira^ahya 

8 


>* DHANU5 

^ H 

AgniJeevataya 

Anuffttatia 

Oharma 

Abhaya 

Rskshsna 

Mada 

Shreyas 

BHOOHAKA 

Ubhaya-Garbfra 

13 


[JI^ VWSHCHIKA 

Jata Woola SthhJ 

SKramito Yamta 

ttoksbe 

Rabaaye 

Akasmika 

Dan da 

Matsara 

Praya* 

BHAOHAKA 

SihiraBahya 

7 


te5=t TULA 

Vayu-Ohatu-Sihiti 
Dravya 

Vyapafa 

Vyvahara 

Moha-Shraya& 

NIPUNA 

Cftara-Owara 

4 


ItP KANYA 

PrfthvJJeevaSthiti 
Vanljya, Ganfeha 

Anha 

Abhiyuhta Jnana 

Preyas 

Kama 

CHATURA 

Ubhaya-Garbha 

6 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 147 

The significations given above are very important and are 
based on long term applied research work. 

Apart from the sign significations, we need to know the 
planetary dignities in each sign. Since planetary dignities are 
shown in each sign, the sign lord being a planet we have given 
the signification of planets in that sign itself. The significations 
are simplified by using words which can be elaborated by logic. 

These two tables are essential tools for introductory lessons 
in Naadi system of predictions. All the visible and invisible 
elements living or non-living matters in the entire universe or 
for that matter galaxies are all to be covered within the realm of 
planets and 12 zodiac signs. Logic is an inseparable catalyst for 
Astrological intelligence. This is especially true in Naadi astrology 
as there are no hypothetical divisible components to support 
the sign and planets. The deepest multiple levels of matter are 
to be derived by signification, position and positional details of 
nine planets. Rules are very simple, but in application logic plays 
an important role and calls for progressive intelligence. 

The table given below indicates the positional dignities of 
planets and each sign at bottom has the signification of the 
planet who is the lord of that sign. 

P.S.: Sign significations are in Sanskrit words & their meaning 
is given in the center box. 



148 



Roots of Naedi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 





PLANETS OK5NI1K3N SIGN AND THEIR KARAKATWA 




y^ mm 

ADHlPATHi GURU 
mm SHUKRA 
HEECHA BtfDHA 
GURU 1H0HTH 


^Y^ WE5HA 

AOHIPATHI KUKA 
UCHHA SOORVA 
HEECHA SHAfii 
KUJA tOAY 


*%/" VRSHA&HA 

ADHlPATHi SHUKRA 
UCHHA ttAHAHA 
M8ILIATE0 Hit 
SHUKRA 15 DAYS 


ADHlPATHi 8U0HA 

UCHHA 

NEECHA 

miDKA 2 MONTHS 


SEtf 


mi 


BROTHER 


turn 


mi 


PROPERTY 


SiBLttGS 


n UHO 


PREACHER 


GOOD RESULT 


SA1E&O0Y 


BARStER 


FEHAtfS 


GAINS 


ABEND 


CO-OPEARTWN 


HOBU 


FtfMtidt 


tmm 


HwtWood 


PUASURA81E 


Sexuftlrebttf 


WTHUGEHX 


ABefff 


hgbour 




namm 




FINANCE 
EXPBflS 




EDUCATION 




mm 


harass 


COMMERCE 


adhipathi shafh 
ejchha 

KEECKA 

SHAHI ITfEAR 


SHAJtiAHOGURUmLSTAOTftETRO^OEWHEH 5UN1SH1KE 

SI(HSOfWAK)IiORlT0HOf?THSKJHFR0Mma NORHAUY 

THEYV^lKTRCXM)Ef^4T05H(OTS.OTH£fiPL«^ 

I^S, VEINS, (KOtfAtSOREtROGRAOE T0S£SEENfS0« 

wmsas 

A j^ogra&ptewtwSirffcate&e reversal of matter change is 

acftit? tf the person repfeseriteo' by pfofitt A retrograde oboei 

>^aiso^vete^^oBtl»p{e5fi(»ssfliKffffi« places oi 

fWdShipejtclafiO^ tetwera lw#ga& it fewfirf PaCfiWt&aM 

yoga or weftauje of pfesets, for example ttARSS JUPITER 

HOUSE J«ffiJ0«TERHHAftSSOUSEISCAlLH)EXCHA%E, 

Exthtft$etfpia«t or Retrogra^ *« lave ifieir effect afters 

W^larffl(totlali8S^aawShB»reteti4ptotciils 

eamecteo" to ffiefforigiMl place. After afiflH^Mffleirretrosrsde 

or excbM^e posmoo to &e eoftsaettd and again after an fccttttt 

oirect^o^^posiisoflisioDetoftSiiiefwl 


($ UMK 

ADHlPATHi CHANDRA 
UCHHA GURU 
NEECHA AKGARAKA 
CHANDRA KSHANA 


Et BROTHER 


oto 


MOTHER 


MOVE&OPE 


2HDKR50H 


WORK 


FEMAtOttAtE 


CHAHG&IOSS 


S10W 


Hsms^s 


caprackns 


m 


PR0K59OK 




^HAKGtfftAVEl 




DEUV 


toss 


£ mm 

ADHlPATHi SHAM 

[jchha ahgaraka 
heecha guru 

SHAW iYEAR 


£\ saftiA 

ADHlPATHi SOORYA 

UCHHA 

&EECHA 

SOORYA 6 MONTHS 


RAH 


KET 


&PAREHT &CRET/SAHDW 


6.PAREHT 


DEEPflCCUU 


ft BROTHER 


OLD 


mm OAHWWU 


foreign 


DE-UMMMALt 


FATHER 


wfflHm 


mmm 


WORK 


AffilSOOAL Agreratepasi 


STUBBORN 


GrowSipaffl 


SON 


SUCCESS 


stow 


Merves^oas 


iUUSKHJS 


SERVICES 




ROYAt 


Heatstroke* 


PROFESSION 




turn 


BLOCKSM 




governing 




Dfur 




REPUTED 


ADHlPATHi GURU 

UCHHA 

KEECHA 

GURU 1H0HTH 


■ lu ;l ,il '■■'■'■■'"■' '■■'■■ ■■'-'■ j 

Jjl VKSHOBKA 

AOHtPATHt KUJA 
UCHHA 

HEECHA ttAHAH 
KUJA 1DAY 


AOHIPATHI SHUKRA 
UCHHA SHAHI 
HEECHA SOORYA 
SHUKRA IS DAYS 


HP KANYA 

ADHIPATHt BUDHA 
UCHHA 8U0HA 
HEECHA SHUKRA 
BUOHA 2 MONTHS 


m 


mi 


brother j enwty 


wk 


PROPERTY 


SIBLINGS 


LAND 


preacher 


GOOD RE SUIT 


MAIE80DY BARKER 


rmaus 


GAINS 


fREKO 


CO-QPEARflOH 


ho&e 


FetMastie 


EGQFURY j HstflkMd 


PtEASURABU 


Sewn related 


mivm 


m% 


hgwour 




TECHRKAt 




FINANCE 




(DUUTJOH 




tmsm 


HARASS 


EXPERTISE 


CGttMERCE 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 



149 



Some of the important rules are given in the inset and 
along with the dignities of planets in each sign and important 
Karakatwa is given in their signs. Rahu and Ketu are included in 
the center. 

We pick up some of the horoscopes from Bhrughu Nandi 
Naadi and discuss it with reference to planetary combinations. 
The planets are to be grouped as per natural zodiac in direction 
1, 5, 9 as eastern direction, 2, 6, 10 as Southern direction, 3, 7, 
11 as Western direction and 4, 8, 12 as Northern direction, 
(Live example follows covering all matters of life.) 

Horoscope No: 1 of Bhrughu Nandi Naadi 

N E S W 







MaR 
As 




Ra 


x?x 

Ra 3X. 


MaR 
As 


\l2/ 

/x 11 








North 


East 




w 






MaKe 




s / 














Mo 






\l/ 
4YlO 


Ju 






















RaSa 


SuVe 






/t\. 






s 


Ju 


Me 


Ju 




E \. 












West 


South 




/ 6\ 


Sa 
Me 


s\ 9 

/ 8 X 


Ke 
Mo 




Ke 




Sa 


Su 




Mo 




Me 


Ve 


/ Su 
/ Vfe 









w 



There is a reference to palmistry in this reading. Jupiter is 
in Capricorn who is looking upward and therefore right side 
portion is right hand which commences from Virgo till Sagittarius. 

Sun, Ven approaching sat and Mer who is linked to Wheel 
significator Rahu, therefore there are 4 chakras in his right hand. 
The Sagittarius has Ket and Moon, tailed creature in water fish. 
This indicates fish mark on the hand. 

Jup Sun Ven is in on group and Jupiter is in Saturn house 
Capricorn. It indicates lean body for native. 

In the group Jupiter Sun and Venus, Sun represents father 
and in the 12 th there is Moon Ketu and Mars. Sun is in Mercury 



150 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

house along with Venus, this indicates, Mars Moon Ketu 
Agriculture, Mercury corps and Venus money. The father earned 
money through agriculture. 

In the next sign there are Rahu Saturn and Mercury having 
in opposition Mars Ketu and Moo. Saturn is son of Sun and it is 
with other siblings that is Mars and Mercury. Therefore the 
earnings of father will be shared by his sons and also by his 
brothers. Father's brother is linked through the exchange of 
Mercury and Venus where will have aspect of Mars from Aries. 

The native Jupiter is having Moon in the backdrop indicating 
an Elder sister, next Jupiter in his rounds encounter Mars, Rahu 
Sun Saturn and Mercury this indicates younger brother. Venus 
which is linking Jupiter indicates younger sister. 

From this point the delineation is based on transit of Jupiter: 

In the first 12 years of transit Jupiter encounters first Mars 
who is also retrograde linked to Moon Ketu and Venus and Sun, 
Jupiter meets retro Mars in Pisces that is about 3 rd year of age 
and in Aries 4 th year of age. He suffers from ill health pertaining 
to blood related problems. (See the significations of sickness). 
He will get over health problems after crossing Rahu in Gemini 
at the age of 6-7 years. 9 th and 10 th year when transiting Leo 
and Virgo Moon Ketu indicating drowning and in Virgo Mercury 
exchanged with Venus as life giver supports thus he escapes 
death by drowning. 

Due to link of Mercury to Jupiter in the Natal chart 
established through exchange of Venus with Mercury, the native 
is destined to get education. During his transit from Capricorn 
to Taurus there will be link of Jupiter and the intervening Venus 
will help to get over the problems of Mars thus gives opportunity 
of education. However since protection has already been received 
once, the same cannot be expected second time. Therefore, at 
the age of 17 and 18 the Mars Ketu Moon caused troubles in 
education. Moon being elder sister the transit of Ketu and Rahu 
on Moon during that period caused death of elder sister. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 151 

After break in education, again at the exaltation of Mercury 
place Jupiter transit continues education. Due to involvement 
of Mars and the next sign having Saturn the education would 
relate to machinery and technical nature. 

Though there is direct link to Venus by Jupiter in exchange 
with Mercury Venus goes to own house which is the exalted 
place of Saturn and joins Saturn. Saturn link to Venus is delayed 
marriage. 

This also indicates that his fortune starts after marriage. 
Saturn while in Virgo Jupiter transit will be in Taurus and Gemini, 
the native gets marriage and he will also get an engineering 
Job in government. It is due to the fact that Sun and Venus are 
involved linking to Saturn. 

Jupiter linking to Venus at the age of 33 gives him a daughter 
and when Jupiter links Sun at 36 th year he gets a male child. 

Saturn in transit encounter Moon and Ketu at the age of 
36-37 and the native changes his job and having Natal Jupiter 
next to him will undertake a higher status job of teaching of 
engineering in a Government college. This is due to Jupiter 
+Venus +Mercury+ Sun combination. 

At the age of 41-42 transit Jupiter while crossing Mars will 
encounter difficulties from the opponents. Jupiter in transit 
linking to Rahu and Moon in opposition will give the native 
opportunity for a foreign trip. 

Jupiter in transit when contact Sun he gets a higher job 
after returning from foreign. 

When all the effects of planets have completed by four 
rounds, the Jupiter in his 5 th round encounters Rahu that is kala 
purusha and this closes the chapter of his life. This will be around 
53- 54 years of age. 

Most of the matters which are general in nature are 
covered in example horoscope being explained 
subsequently and several matters are covered in the 
example horoscopes from Bhrighu Nandi Naadi. This 



152 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



horoscope is also from Bhrighu Nandi Naadi and is given 
exclusively to deal with some important aspects of life 
like previous birth siblings and progeny etc. 



Ju 


5a Ke 

Mo 






Ma 






Ve 




Su 


Me 


Ra 





Character: 

Jupiter in Pisces - non materialistic in nature 

Jupiter having Mercury in Kona: Intelligence person 

Jupiter having Sat Ket and Moon in 2 nd : - Spiritual bent of 
mind with knowledge of sacred scriptures. Combination of Sun 
and Ketu along with Moon and Ket indicates that the person 
travels and then gets name and fame in the society. 



Previous Birth: 

This person born in a different caste and was violent in 
nature and committed sins by deceiving spiritual persons. Later 
on repented and did prayaschitta for his sins. 

This is due to fact that Jupiter when counted one sign behind 
from Kumbha links Mars and Rahu and in the axis of Rahu and 
Ketu there are Moon Ketu and Saturn. Mercury the intelligence 
planet is in the house of Mars that is house of debilitated Moon 
having Sun next to it and linked to Venus and then forming a 
malika yoga touching Jupiter. Due to this prayaschitta he has a 
good birth this time. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 153 



His Father is a Rama Bhakta 

Sun having crossed Vishnu Amsha Mercury and then 
reaching sign of Kodanda is an indication that Father is devotee 
of Rama. Saturn Ketu and Moon having Mars in 11 th indicate 
Hanumantha. 

Number of siblings; 

In Naadi the brother factor is indicated by Mars and it has 
Jupiter ahead who is Jeeva karaka which confirms one younger 
brother. Mercury is also an indicator of younger sibling either 
male or female. Mercury in this chart is in male sign and having 
Sun ahead, a male planet which indicates another younger 
brother. However this Mercury is hemmed between the effects 
of Ketu influenced by Moon and Saturn one side and is eclipsed 
by Rahu on the other side. Therefore this brother aspect is 
nullified. This Mars is having Jupiter as an elder brother and is 
having Saturn as one more elder brother. That is two elder 
brothers and out of Ketu and Moon one out of them that is Ketu 
becomes another brother and Moon is a female planet and one 
sister. Therefore total including Jupiter they are four brothers 
and one sister. Ketu having Saturn and Moon goes away pursuing 
spiritual life. Out of other brother due to exchange of Saturn 
and Mars one of them go away having a fight with the other 
and while in exchange the planet in Kumbha will have death 
inflicting planet Rahu in Libra which indicates death of a brother. 

Number of children: 

Jupiter is having Venus in 11 th and in 2 nd and 12 th there are 
planets both male and female. The Planets in 2 nd is directly 
linked to Sun confirming progeny prospects. As explained in 
siblings above little change in gender aspect will have two male 
and two female issues. Venus and Moon becomes two female 
issues and Sun and Mars becomes two male issues. 

Sun is having in front Venus and having Mercury and Jupiter 
at the backdrop which indicate that one of the progeny will 



1 54 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



have good educational back ground and earn money with name 
and fame in the society after changing a place and profession. 
Other male child will go to foreign country to pursue his education 
and will at one point of time be interested in spiritual matters. 
He may not have good marital life. 

One of the female progeny will have comfort levels in the 
marital life that is Venus which has Sun and Mercury at Back 
drop and having Mars and Jupiter ahead. Another girl will have 
problems in marital life. She may also have health problems. 
That is Moon, Saturn Ketu with Sun effect. 

Education and Profession: 

The involvement of Mercury having Sun with the effect of 
Saturn is clear indication that this man is interested only in 
Business. 

Mercury is in the house of Mars having Sun in 2 nd and Rahu 
in 12 th supported by Jupiter in 5 th . Sun is linked to food material 
Moon and small items Ketu and Saturn readymade. This indicates 
the native is having knowledge of baking. Sun is wheat, Moon 
is round, and Ketu is small. Saturn is yeast. That is he has the 
knowledge of bakery items. Apart from it Venus is money and 
also beauty, 

Having a good knowledge in baking this person earns well 
having Venus in 2 nd to Sun Moon, Ketu, Saturn combination 
backed by baking knowledge Mercury. He earns well and makes 
property. The Moon indicates different units. He establishes 
different units and makes lots of assets. . 

Change of working Place: 

He may change his place of profession at a later stage that 
is due to effect of Moon being with Saturn and Ketu which 
makes him to leave one place and move to another place. 



Classical Naadi Systems; Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 



155 



Marital life: 

Venus is in the house of Saturn and is having Mars in front 
of it and is having Sun behind. The Sun is having link of Saturn, 
Moo and Ketu. This is an indication that the wife hails from a 
family having some traditional values. It also indicates that thdy 
struggled hard in life. Wife definitely will exhibit proud and will 
be short tempered but will be a good guide to husband. Despite 
they have a cordial marital life, * 



Example from Bhrighu Nandi Naadi: 

N E S W 





Ju 

Su 
Ke 


Sa 

Mo 


Ma 
Ve 




\ Ma /\ Ju Su / 
x Ve / x Ke / 

\ 2 / Sa V?/ 
XX Mo XX 1 Me 

4 /\ 10 > 
/ X X X 


w 


Me 


North 
JuSu 
Ke 


East 
Sa 
Mo 


t 


5 




Me 

West 


MaVe 
Ra 

South 


i 










Ra 



w 



Mercury the signficator for education is in western direction 
2 nd direction has Jup Sun Ket. Native is a legal expert. Jup Sun 
Ket indicates a spiritual and good character. He has a brother 
(Mer behind in a male sign). Saturn in east has in south that is 
2 nd direction VEN MAR RAH. He will have multiple buildings and 
vehicles (Ven + Mar Buildings, Ven + Rah vehicles and Rahu 
indicates abundance) He will resolve litigations and also involve 
in litigations ( Mar = litigation - being a legal person resolves 
litigations: Professionally Saturn encounters Mar + Ven, therefore 
involves in litigation for money) 

Most dangerous part of this system of prediction is that it 
reveals many secrets which may offend the consultant. This 
prediction given below is such a secret one. 



1 56 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



In the house of Mars there is Saturn and Moon. This house 
of Mars that is Aries represents husband. The lord of this sign 
Mars is in the Venus house along with Venus. That is Venus 
now has a back drop two persons one is Saturn and another is 
Moon. Saturn is debilitated and in an enemy house. Therefore 
Moon becomes the other male of debilitated and low level person. 
We saw that there is a fight between two persons Saturn and 
Mars. From the point of view of Venus as wife, husband is 
engaged in professional fight. During this time Moon comes 
and joins Venus who has Rahu in 5 th . Both will run away for a 
secret affair. 

Further deep study shows, when Moon enters Venus it is 
an indication of pregnancy, and Moon and Venus runs away 
and only Mars remains there. That means the wife delivers a 
male child leaves him and goes away. 

Though wife runs away she has problems to face as in the 
subsequent houses she has to face enemy planets in north, 
east and southern directions. 

Note: here the Venus is being rotated considering it as 
Jupiter that is Jeeva for wife. There are many such wonderful 
clues for going deeper into the prediction part explained in this 
work. 

The entire book of Bhrigu Nandi Naadi covers about 500 
charts basing its predictive principles on selecting the Karakatwa 
of planets and giving prediction on the basis of combination of 
planets. The timing of events is based on transit of Jupiter, 
Saturn and Rahu and Ketu. 

Since Karakatwa and combination of planets are important 
the author has written two more books giving results of two 
planets and three planets combination. He has also written a 
book on transit results. 

The scribe has done extensive research on this method of 
prediction and has written "Prediction secrets-Naadi Astrology" 
"Revelation from Naadi Jyotisha", "Celestial Matrix", "Orbital 
Providence" and "Prashna Mora". 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 157 

In this section the scribe would like to give the 
predictive principles in an organized manner comparing 
with the traditional methodology which will be useful 
to the students of astrology and also to the astrologers 
following traditional system of analysis. 

Longevity: 

Traditional method 

1 st house, 3 rd holuse 8 th house 2 nd house 7 th house 12 th 
house are studied with various other principles to know the 
longevity of the person. 

Naadi method: 

There are no houses involved, therefore the importance of 
Lagna or other houses are not considered, 

Jupiter the planet of Jeeva karaka is considered to assess 
the Longevity. Mark the position of Jupiter in the Natal chart. 
Then take the planets falling in between Rahu and Jupiter (that 
is planets posited along with Jupiter, in 5 th , in 9 th , in 2 nd , in 7 th , 
in 12 th and their trines except Ketu) Rahu encountering these 
planets will indicate dangers to lives indicated by these planets 
and after completing the effects of these planets in each round, 
the next encounter with Jupiter with Rahu will indicate the death 
of native. 

(Note: the longevity is a matter of cosmic decision, this will 
indicate only possible time frame and average age factor, there 
are number of other principles involving Saturn and Ketu which 
are hidden secrets normally cannot be disclosed in written 
formats - Therefore it is only to indicate the possible danger to 
life period the above principle is to be used. Even in traditional 
astrology such secrets are withheld. There also it is only 
approximation which denotes Long life, Middle life and short 
life) 



158 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Generally when Rahu is approaching Jupiter where Jupiter 
has no other planet supporting it and equally if Saturn is 
disposited with Ketu without many planets support it indicates 
short life to native. The reason is Rahu is Kala purusha who is 
approaching the Jeeva Karaka to end his life. If there is Karma 
balance the Jeeva cannot leave this body and go away. Therefore 
Saturn if has more number of planet linking to it unless all the 
Rinanubandha of these planets are completed the Jeeva cannot 
end its journey, But the effect of Rahu will make the life of 
native miserable with diseases and unethical activities. 

Short life example as per Naadi: 

N E S W 







Ma 


Ke 




\ Ve /\ Ra / 

\V As \§/ 

1 y\ su /x Ju 

Ma lX >V 
7 2 \ / 4 \ 


w 




North 
Ra 


East 
MaSu 




s 


Ve 
Me 


Ju 

West 


KeVeSa 
Me No 

South 






As 

Su 


Ra 


Ju 


. Sa 
MO 



w 



Rahu approaching Jupiter and Jupiter approaching Rahu is 
an indication of short life less than 40 years. 



Death of relatives: 

Traditional: 

3 rd and 11 th house along with Mars and Saturn represents 
brothers and sisters. Taking the reference point from the houses 
indicated or from the Karaka planet the Maraka planets are 
noted and synchronizing them with the Dasha of native, the 
respective danger period to life for brothers and sisters are 
indicated. Similarly for other relatives are computed. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 



159 



In Naadi: 

Younger siblings are represented by Mercury and immediate 
brother is by Mars and elder Brother by Saturn. Venus and Moon 
also represents sisters. The transit of Ketu or Rahu encountering 
these planets will indicate the danger period for the siblings. 

(Normally the effect of Rahu indicates danger to life and 
sickness and Ketu shows the de-linking factor) 









Sal4 


\ Mai 

/iiK 

/ Ke4 


/Su3\ 
' As-6 x 

Ju 12 
Mo 16 . 
Vel8 

\Me 28 y 

8 /x 2 


Ra4 / 

\4/ 

X3 Sa 14 
/ 12 i\ 




Natal Chart 
Rashi (Dl) 


Ra4 


Ke4 


Su3 
As6 

Ju 12 
Mo 16 
Ve 18 
Me 28 

Ma 1 









This is a male horoscope, in this Mars the brother is afflicted 
by Ketu not having any planet in support. The brother of the 
native is short lived (less than 40 years). 

Longevity of wife/ husband 

In Traditional Astrology 7 th house its lord and Karaka Venus 
represents wife. For female some take Jupiter and others take 
Mars as karaka for husband. The danger period is indicated by 
the Maraka planets fot 7 th house synchronizing with the Dasha 
of native. 



In Naadi: 

Venus is wife and for female Mars is husband. The 
relationship of Ketu and Rahu are taken to indicate the danger 
to lives of spouse- 



160 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



(In a male horoscope if there is close relation 
between Venus and Rahu or Ketu without any benefic 
planets supporting Venus early death of wife is 
indicated. In female it is Rahu versus Mars which 
indicates similar effect. This again is a broader 
perspective) 

Danger to Mother and Father 

Traditional method: 

4 th house and Moon for mother and 9 th house and Sun for 
father is considered and taking the reference points both from 
house and karaka the Maraka planets synchronizing with the 
Dasha of native indicates danger to the life of parents. 



Naadi method: 

Moon for mother Sun for father is considered along with 
the relationship of Rahu and Ketu. Lesser number of planets 
supporting the both Moon and Sun will indicate early danger to 
father and mother. Transit of nodes will indicate this danger to 
life. 







JuR 15 


Ke9 


\ Mal6 /\ Ke9 / 

\&r Sa 21 \K JuR 
9K As 27 y*Sl5 

m U i 4 q8>< Mo 5 ><12 
Me 13/^X /it\ 

/ Ra 9 \. / \ 

/ Ve21 \/ \ 




Natal Chart 
Rashi (01} 


Sa21 
As 27 


Mo 5 


Ma 16 


Ra9 
Ve21 


Su4 
Me 13 







This is a female horoscope where in mother is represented 
by Moon which is having Rahu behind and having the Ketu 
effect in Aquarius. Moon has only Jupiter in 5 th and Saturn an 
enemy planet in 7 th . Her mother is short lived. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandl Naadi 161 

Danger to children: 

Traditional method: 

5 th house, 7 th house 9 th house & karaka, Jupiter is considered 
for children and Maraka planets counted from these reference 
points are operative in synchronization with Dasha of native 
will indicate danger to their lives. 

Naadi Method: 

Sun is represented as male progeny and Venus as female 
progeny. The nodes closely linked to them without any support 
will indicate danger to their lives. 

(Important: There is a drawback normally expressive in 
this aspect, because Sun also represent father, Venus also 
represent wife, and daughter in law the question is how to 
identify whether it is father or son, daughter or daughter in law 
or wife. This genuine doubt is common. The most important 
principle of Naadi astrology is, to have a time chart for every 
horoscope analysis. Time chart is nothing but a chart drawn at 
the moment of analyzing the horoscope. Taking the present 
position of Jupiter, if the Sun is behind Jupiter it is father and if 
it is ahead it is son. Similarly if the Venus is along with Jupiter or 
behind Jupiter it is wife and if it is ahead it is daughter. If Venus 
is linked to Mercury then it is daughter in law. Please note the 
ahead and behind position can happen even by exchange, by 
Retro and Exchange or it can happen through some other planet 
associated with them. Present Jupiter position to Natal Sun and 
Venus and Natal Jupiter to present Venus and Sun both are to 
be seen, if Jupiter happens to be in the same position as in 
Natal chart. Number of male planets linking to Sun is number of 
children and number of female planet linking to Venus is female 
children. Degree wise they are to be decided). Another method 
is to look for the house and karaka represented in traditional 
astrology and link the dasa of native to maraka planets for 
relatives. 



162 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 







juris 


Ke9 


\ Ma 16 /\ Ke 9 / 

jsSf Sa21 \VjuR 
¥\ As 27 /\ 15 

m^^X Mo 5 >^2 
MeU/gX y/"\ 

/ Ra 9\ / \ 
/ Ve21 \/ \ 




Natal Chart 
Rashi (Dl) 


Sa21 
As 27 


Mo 5 


Ma 16 


Ra9 

Ve21 


Su4 
Me 13 







This is a female horoscope in this both Sun as male child 
and Mercury as younger sibling to Sun; both are being 
approached by Rahu. Both of them are short lived. 



Health matters: 

Traditional method: 

1 st house, 6 th house, 8 th house and 12 th house, Saturn and 
Mars Gulika are considered for assessing health along with 
natural zodiac body parts and also 12 houses as body parts. 
The linking factors and the weakness of Lagna are all taken into 
consideration to indicate the health condition and probability of 
diseases are seen from the Dasha of evil planets. 

The twelve signs of the zodiac relative houses counted from 
ascendant and the nine planets are the pillars of astrology. The 
same is extended to medical astrology and the significations 
relates only to medical terms. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 



163 



Body Parts and Kalapurusha 






±> 



\£zm 



?o 



SAGITTARIUS '«> 




^ 

<% 




ml ININ39 

8; 



# 



A 



\ 



Aries: Identical 1 st house of any Ascendant-Head, Brain, 
Face, Eyes. 

Taurus: Identical 2 nd house of any Ascendant - Vocal 
Chords, Thyroid Gland, Throat, And Neck, 

Gemini: Identical 3 rd house of any Ascendant - Nerves 
System, Brain Cells, Lungs, Shoulders, Arms, Hands. 

Cancer: Identical 4 th house of any Ascendant - Chest, 
Breasts. 



164 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Leo: Identical 5 th house of any Ascendant - Heart, Ribs, 
Spinal Column, and Upper Belly. 

Virgo: Identical 6 th house of any Ascendant - Digestive 
System, Intestines, Spleen, Waist. 

Libra: Identical 7 th house of any Ascendant- Kidneys, Skin, 
Lower Spine. 

Scorpio: Identical 8 tfl house of any Ascendant - 
Reproductive System Sexual Organs, Excretory System Bowels. 

Sagittarius: Identical 9 th house of - Hips, Liver, Sciatic 
Nerve, Thighs. 

Capricorn: Identical 10 th house of any Ascendant - Knees, 
Joints, Skeletal System. 

Aquarius: Identical 11 th house of any Ascendant Calves, 
Ankles, Circulatory System. 

Pisces: Identical 12 th house of any Ascendant- Feet, Toes, 
Lymphatic System, Body Fat- 
Diseases by Planets by influence of Zodiac signs: 
Aries: 

Sun: Head, brain, eyes, headache, hemorrhage, strokes 

Moon: Eyesight, unsteady, hair fall, insomnia. 

Mars: Stress, bleeding, injury, neurological problems 

Mercury: Convulsions, Strain, nervous, impotency, 
sweating 

Jupiter: Cerebral thrombosis, pyorrhea, sleepy, weak brain 

Venus: Sinus, head ache, desire for alcohol, cold problems 

Saturn: Cold, catarrh, cerebral ischemia, dental, vertigo, 
tumors 

Rahu: Ear, brain fever, giddiness, headaches, hallucinations 

Ketu: Migraine, growths 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 165 

Taurus 

Sun: Tonsillitis, diphtheria, polypus, cold sinusitis 

Moon: Throat, pharyngitis, tonsils, mouth-ulcers, eye/ 
urinary 

Mars: Mumps, acne, neck-pain, nose-bleeding, swellings 

Mercury: Ear, stammering, laryngitis, pharyngitis 

Jupiter: Ring worm, catarrh, tonsils 

Venus: diphtheria, headache, tonsillitis, Venereal problems 

Saturn: Growth in throat, gums-bleeding, kidney problems 

Rahu: Dental, infections in throat, insomnia 

Ketu: Ulcers, growths in throat, mumps, carbuncle 

Gemini: 

Sun: Cold cough, bronchitis, pulmonary defects, nerves 
problem 

Moon: Bronchitis, asthma, lung infections, rheumatic pains 

Mars: Ulcers, Growth in lungs and infections 

Mercury: Asthma, Nerves, joint pains in shoulder and hands 

Jupiter: Congestion in lungs, Liver problems 

Venus: Skin, lungs, ascites 

Saturn: Rheumatic pains, bronchitis, Asthma, Malignancy 
in lung 

Rahu: Pain in neck-shoulders, epilepsy, insomnia 

Ketu: Skin allergies, Pain in upper body joints, gastric 
trouble 

Cancer: 

Sun: Measles, gas, swelling, eruptions 



166 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Moon: Cold, Ulcers, overweight, convulsions 

Mars: hemorrhage and ulcers, tumor in chest 

Mercury: Nerves disorder, poor digestion 

Jupiter: Constipation, digestive, gas, jaundice, liver, ascites 

Venus: Gas, nausea, giddiness 

Saturn: Vomiting, liver, anemia, tumor in chest, digestion 

Rahu: Heart burn, indigestion, pain in chest, worms 

Ketu: Indigestion, urinary, breast Cancer, dyspepsia, piles 

Leo: 

Sun: Heart defects, Spinal cord and back problems 
Moon: Cardiac, spinal infections, low blood pressure 
Mars: Angina, Heart, swellings in the regions of heart 
Mercury: Spinal cord disorders, tumors, weak heart 
Jupiter: Heart valve problems, Joint/Thighs pain 
Venus: Back pain, spine, heart problems 
Saturn: Infections in spinal vertebrae, arteries of heart 
Rahu: Urinary problems, heart problems 
Ketu: Heart attacks, Nerve disorder, Indigestion, 

Virgo: 

Sun: Hyper acidity, ulcers in stomach, indigestion 
Moon: Food poisoning, bowel problems indigestion 
Mars: Loose motions, irritable bowel syndrome, burning 
Mercury: Diarrhea, Food allergies 
Jupiter: Liver, Jaundice, ulcers in digestive system 
Venus: Worms and food related diseases 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 167 

Saturn: Intestine problems 

Rahu: Chronic infections, digestive disorders, gas, burning 

Ketu: Fevers, Weakness, and Intestines 

Libra: 

Sun: Nephritis, Kidney diseases, skin eruptions 

Moon: Swelling and kidney disorder, migraine, venereal, 
hysteria 

Mars: Kidney stones, brain hemorrhage, urinary problems 

Mercury. Urinary tract infection, backache 

Jupiter: Diabetes, urinary problem, kidney disorder 

Venus: Urinary problems, head and brain effects 

Saturn: Kidney and glands 

Rahu: High diabetes, dental problems and fevers 

Ketu: Kidney stones/urinary block, giddiness 

Scorpio: 

Sun; Urinary stone, reproductive defects, bowel syndromes 

Moon: Tonsillitis, aHergies, hydrocele, ovaries, physic 

Mars: Hernia, piles, menses, kidney stone, tensions 

Mercury: Pain in testicles, menses, deafness 

Jupiter: Piles, prostate gland, uterus, diabetes, hydrocele 

Venus: Prostate gland, venereal, uterine tumors, throat 

Saturn: Hernia, hydrocele, piles, sterility, menopause 

Rahu: Uterus, BP, Venereal, surgeries of piles, hydrocele, 
hernia 

Ketu: Genital problems, BP, sleeplessness 



168 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Sagittarius: 

Sun: Piles, fever, sciatica, fistula 

Moon: Fractures, skin allergies, sciatica, gout 

Mars: Pain in shoulders and legs, fractures, piles 

Mercury: Thighs and hips, nerve disorder 

Jupiter: Arthritis, gout, sciatica, joint pains 

Venus: Hips and thigh related problems 

Saturn: Fracture in thigh or hips, pains 

Rahu: Rheumatic pains, joint pains 

Ketu: Muscle twitching, pain in joints, shoulders 

Capricorn: 

Sun: Burning of legs and knee pains, Lung problems 

Moon: Weak knee and legs, pains 

Mars: Knee injuries, skin eruptions - lung problems 

Mercury: Allergies, gout 

Jupiter: Circulator problems, skin, liver, pain in joints 

Venus: Cough, cold and lung disorder, leg pains 

Saturn: Arthritis, lung infections, blood impurities 

Rahu: Damage to knee, weakness, pains 

Ketu: Knee cap problems, lungs and blood defects 

Aquarius: 

Sun: Hematemesis, swelling, varicose veins, palpitation 
Moon: Water in legs, pains, heart problems 
Mars: Fractures, skin, veins, and heart related 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 169 

Mercury: Weakness of nerves and pains 

Jupiter: Pan in ankles, joints backache, and heart 
discomfort 

Venus: Veins, legs and heart problems 

Saturn: Cramps, pain in ankle and joints and spinal cord 

Rahu: Pollution of blood, insomnia diabetes 

Ketu: Pain in calf muscle and chest pain 

Pisces: 

Sun: Eye diseases, lungs and uterus and fever 

Moon: Cold cough, depressions 

Mars: Bone fractures, corns, skin, diarrhea 

Mercury: Cramps, lungs, memory, fears and anxiety 

Jupiter: Heart, acidity, pain in legs and back 

Venus: Veins and cardiac problems 

Saturn: Corn, glands swelling, lungs and intestine . 

Rahu: Indigestion, weakness, lungs, asthma 

Ketu: Neurological arrests, weakness, Asthma, muscular 
pain 

(Medical astrology in traditional system is a separate chapter, 
normally the health conditions are better assessed through a 
Prashna chart) 

Naadi Method: 

In this method broad diseases are grouped by combination 
of planets and listed out. This will fairly indicate the possible ill 
health factors to the native. Invariably this proved with greater 
accuracy than any other method. 



170 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Indian philosophy advocates karma theory and confirms 
that bodily sufferings due to chronic diseases are linked to past 
evil deeds. 

This principle is directly applied in Naadi: 

1, If there is a link of Saturn, Moon and Rahu it is an indication 
that this person will suffer with chronic diseases due to his 
past karma, 

2. If the Jupiter is linked to Rahu and Moon then it is due to 
his present evil deeds he will suffer ill health/ 

3. Instead of Rahu if Ketu is linked, then he will nullify the 
karma by fully suffering. 

4, Venus is Mrithasanjeevini and Sun is Dhanvantari 

Keeping these four fundamental rules, the following are 
the disease factor which can be identified through combination 
of planets. 

Diseases by Combination of Planets 

1. If there is a conjunction of Rahu, Mercury and Mars, or if 
they are placed in trines to each other or if any two of them 
is in trine to the third planet: - Problems in the Spinal cord 
can be identified. 

2. Conjunction of Sun, Moon, Rahu, Saturn or if Sun and Moon 
are in trine to both Rahu and Saturn, the native will suffer 
with - Chronic headache problems that is Migraine 

3. Mercury and Moon in conjunction or in opposition or in 
trine will cause infection in thorax. 

To this combination if Ketu influences Mercury by conjunction 
or being in trine, there may be a growth in thorax area 

From the above confluence any of these planet is getting 
the influence of Venus by conjunction, opposition or from a 
trine to them, this will result in Thyroid problems. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 171 



4. Rahu, Mercury. Jupiter or Venus in conjunction or related 
in trines or any one of them is in opposition to other two 
will indicate Ear diseases 

5. Saturn or Rahu if conjunct or in trine to Mars or in opposition 
to Mars the person will have Dental decaying or 
disfigurement. 

6. Jupiter or Venus in the place of Saturn or Rahu will cause 
healthy teeth. 

7. Saturn or Rahu or Ketu in conjunction with Sun or Moon or 
if in trine or opposition the person will have troubles in eye 
sight 

8. In the above combination if Mars joins there will be regular 
irritation or burning sensation in the eyes 

9. When Ketu is influencing Sun or Moon if Mars also joins 
Cataract in the eyes warrants surgery. 

10. Moon or Venus in conjunction, in trine or in opposition to 
Jupiter or Saturn, the persons suffers from cold related 
problems resulting in obstructive breathing 

11. Saturn Moon Ketu in conjunction or in trine or any one or 
two of them in opposition to others, the person will suffer 
due to bronchitis or Ashtama 

12. Moon, Venus, Ketu any two of them if linked to Saturn or 
Jupiter the female will have uterus problems. 

13. Rahu Moon or Venus if they are linked in trine or opposition 
to Saturn or Jupiter the person will have urinary/bladder 
infection. 

14. Ketu Moon or Venus if they are linked in trine or opposition 
to either Saturn or Jupiter the person will have Kidney 
problems. If Mars joins there will stone in kidney 

15. Mars and Moon if conjunct, or in trine to Rahu, it indicates 
diseases due to blood impurities also indicate mental related 
problems. 



172 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

16. Instead of Rahu if Ketu conjoins them or falls in trine to 
them it indicates problems in circulatory system and mental 

irritations. 

17. Saturn, Moon, Mars combination either by conjunction or 
being in trine to each other or any two of them in opposition 
to other will indicate defects in blood and stressed life style 

18. Jupiter Mars Rahu or Ketu in trine or conjunction or any 
two of them in opposition to other will cause blood pressure 
and digestive problems. 

19. Jupiter Rahu or Mars if they are linked in trines or opposition 
the person will have hyperacidity 

20. Mars, Sun, Rahu or Ketu any two of them if relates to Jupiter 
being in conjunction or in trines or In opposition the persons 
suffers with heart related problems. In female this 
combination if linked to Venus this problem is indicated 

21 . Moon and Venus if linked to Jupiter or Saturn by conjunction, 
in opposition or in trines the person suffers from diabetes. 

22. Saturn or Jupiter if in conjunction or in trine to Rahu or 
Ketu the person suffers from rheumatic/joint pains 

23. Instead of Ketu if Mars joins this combination the person 
will be accident or injury prone 

24. Jupiter Mars and Ketu if in conjunction or in trines or if any 
two of them in opposition to another the person will suffer 
with irritable bowel syndrome. 

25. Combination Moon, Mars, Ketu with Jupiter and for females 
Venus will indicate carcinoma in body parts. This also 
indicates removal of a body part. 

26. Mercury and Moon combination in conjunction or trine will 
indicate skin related infections, if Rahu or Ketu joins it 
indicates patches on the skin 

27. Mars, Ketu, or Rahu, Sun any two of these planets links 
Jupiter or Venus(for females) indicates Acne 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 173 



28. A. Moon-Rahu B. Moon-Mars-Rahu C. Moon-Ketu D. Moon- 
Mars-Ketu any of this combination in a chart will indicate 
psychological problems. 

29. If Natal Jupiter and Saturn both are in the axis of transit 
Rahu and Ketu or one in transit one from natal position, or 
natal Jupiter and Saturn gets blocked due to direct or by 
trine effect of Rahu and Ketu on either side of the sign 
considering both natal and transit position, the person will 
suffer encounter physical immobility (either due to medical 
or social factors) 

30. Natal Jupiter encountering transit Rahu and Natal Saturn 
encountering transit Ketu indicates serious problems of 
nearing death situations in health matters indicated by other 
combinations mentioned above. 

Note: Slow moving (include Mars whn in Stamtana) in transit can also 
form the above combinations with natal planets indicating diseases. 

Diseases indicated by Planets in Naadi 

SUN 

Bile, Diarrhea, Eye disease, Headache, Fever, Loss of 
Appetite, Heart disease, Thirst, Sun stroke 

MOO 

Eye diseases, Cold Cough, Impurities of Blood, Venereal 
disease, Skin Disease, Lunacy, Influenza, Phlegm, Smallpox or 
Measles, Mental Disorder, Epilepsy, Typhoid, Sinus, , Dropsy, 
Swellings 

MAR 

Accidents, Blood defect, Cuts, Wounds, Dog bite, Piles, Blood 
Pressure, Heart disease, Constipation, Anemia, Bile 

MER 

Stomach disorder, Skin diseases, Eczema, Itches, Scabies, 
Ring worm, Leucoderma Leprosy, Intestinal complaints, Mental 
disorder, Sore throat, Tonsils, Dumb, Bald, 



174 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

JUP 

Liver complaints, Jaundice, Hernia, Bronchitis, 

VEN 

Diabetes, Semen disorder Anemia, Diseases of ovaries, 
Venereal diseases, Uterine disorders, Eye diseases, Phlegm 

SAT 

Rheumatism, Arthritis, Lethargy, Gas Troubles, Defective 
speech, Tooth ailments, Indigestion, Ulcer, Asthma 

RAH 

Accidents, Sexual-perversity, Cataract, Tooth-ailments, 
Leprosy, Body pains, Stammering, Intestine problems 
Rheumatism, Pox, Sudden death, Murder, Homosexuality, 
Lesbianism, Snake bite, Insanity 

KET 

Body pains, Tumor, Growths, Wounds, Leprosy, Itches, 
Suicidal tendencies, Stomach ache, Small pox, Piles, Cancer, 
Sudden death, Skin eruptions, Insect bites, Viral fever, 

Ayurvedic principle is based on three humors in the body, 
Vata Pitta and Kapha. In Naadi three sets of planets indicates 
this humor: 

SAT-MER-RAH-VATA 

MAR-SUN-KET - PITTA 

JUP-VEN-MOO- KAPHA 

They are again divided into: 

Manda vata - Sat 

Shighra vata - Mer 

Visha vata - Rah 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrlghu Nandi Naadi 175 

Teevra Pitta - Mar 
jwara Pitta - Sun 
Vrana-Pitta - Ket 

Jeeva-Kapha-Jup 

Drava -Kapha - Ven 

Sleshma-Kapha - Moo 

With the combination in the horoscope the cause for the 
disease can be identified. For example Manda vata (Sat) +Vrana 
pitta (Ket) H-Sleshma kapha (Moo) = Asthma. 

(Note: these are extended research hints provided for the 
benefit of readers) 

Education: 

In Traditional method: 

2 nd house, 4 th house, 5 th house 9 th house and 11 th house, 
Mercury as karaka are considered for education. Strong houses, 
lord and karaka will provide good education during a good Dasha 
period. The nature of education is studied by using sign, 
planetary significations and also star indications. 

In Naadi method: 

Mercury indicates education and Venus indicates expertise, 
Sun indicates success, Jupiter guarantees the education. Mars, 
Ketu, are main hurdle for education. Moon though disturbs it 
only indicate changes and travel in education. Mars indicates, 
Mathematics, Machinery, Power, Arguments etc., Ketu indicates 
Medicine, Law and spiritual matters. When Mars and Ketu are 
attached to Mercury, and the line of education relates to these 
two planets then there will not be any obstruction in studies. 
Rahu indicates foreign matters and also cheating elements. Rahu 



176 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

can also cause disturbance in education. Saturn will slow down 
the process of learning but supports practical learning. 

General rule is that Mercury having Jupiter link ultimately 
will give good education. If Sun combines will give merits in 
education. 

Other planets indicate the nature of education, for this we 
have to consider sign significations and also the nature of these 
planets in a particular sign where their obstructive qualities are 
modified as supportive qualities. 

From Mercury the directional planets are to be considered 
along with sign significations. 

Profession and Business: 

In Traditional astrology: 

10 th house is considered for profession. Another school of 
thought considers Lagna for livelihood. However it is either of 
these or both the houses it's Lord Karaka for 10 th house are to 
be studied. The strength of houses its lord and Karaka will bestow 
good professional career during the period of good Dasha. 

In Naadi astrology: 

Saturn is main significator of profession: 

Jupiter is the promoter of profession 

Sun is Recognition and a Governing and Establishing planet. 

Moon indicates changes, blames, transfer and transport 
liquid and food and art related professions 

Mars indicates hazards, enmity and obstructive forces in 
profession and it also indicate technical and powered nature of 
profession. 

Mercury indicates knowledge based and commercial nature 
of profession or land related profession 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 1 77 

Venus indicates Money, Assets and Luxuries and arts related 
profession 

Rahu indicates - Foreign, Shadow, Unethical nature of 
profession and also indicates hard work in profession 

Ketu indicates - Dejections, ending of Job, Medicine, Law 
and spiritual related jobs and also low level jobs like tailor, painter 
etc., 

Saturn and its relationship with other planets in 1, 5, 9, 2, 
6, 10, and 3, 7, 11 and in the back drop of 4, 8, 12 along with 
sign signification will decide the professional matters of a native. 

Profession indicated by planets: 

SUN 

Government jobs, Famous institutions, Politicians, 
Physicians, Goldsmiths 

MOO 

Cook, Dry Cleaner Milkman, Milkmaid, Farmer, Grass Vendor, 

Nurse, Washer Man, Baker, Hawker, Boatman, Waiter, 

Compounder, Sailor, Messenger, Travel Agent, Navigator, 

MAR 

Uniformed services, Sculpture, Barber, Potter, Machine 
operator 

Engineer, Butcher, Surgeon, Dentist, Constable, Carpenter, 

Mechanic, Blacksmith, Sculpture, Barber, Potter 

MER 

Accountant, Mathematicians, Public speaker, Teacher, 
Novelist, Editor, Book binder, Book sellers Writer, Ambassador, 
Air and Land transports, Newspaper vendor, Author, Painter, 
Landlord, Compositor, Postman, Broker, Draftsman, Inspector, 
Examiner, Publisher, Printer, Merchant, Journalist, Clerk, Imports 
and Exports 



1 78 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



JUP 

Priest, Manager, Ministers, Lawyer, Judges, Bankers, Temple 
workers 

VEN 

Artists, Treasurer, Jewelers, Musician, Singer, Performer, 
Dancer Dramatist, Prostitute, Perfume seller 

SAT 

Watchman, Cleaners, Peon, Sweeper, Cobbler, Miner, Brick 
layers 

RAH 

Shadow related works, Scientists, Photographers, Actors, 
Black magician, Labourer, Car drivers, Drummers, Porters, Shoe 
maker, Rag pickers, Rickshaw pullers, quarry workers, Building 
workers, Cleaners, Wood cutters, Robbers, Gas agents, 2 nd hand 
goods dealers, Electronic good repairers. 

KET 

Doctor, Faith Healers, Divine Healer, Lawyers, Judge, Priest, 
Sages, Saints, Fakirs Occultist, Astrologers, Preceptors, 
Fisherman, Weaver, Tailor, Knitters, Hunters, Beggars, Cable 
workers, Pottery, Tiles and Brick makers. 

Yogas for material benefits: 

Traditional yoga: 

Lords of 1, 5, 9 are benefic planets and give good results 
during their period. Lords of both Kendra and Kona or called 
Yoga karakas they give good material benefits. Planets owning 
2 nd and 11 are good for financial matters. 4 th house represents 
assets. 9 th house indicate fortune and 5 th house indicates dignity. 
Lords of 6-8-12 or evil lords this will cause material and personal 
losses to the native. The association of good lords with these 
evil lords results in unfavorable results 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 179 

Naadi method: 

Venus denotes Money, Assets and Luxuries 

Mercury indicates landed properties 

Sun indicates success and recognition. 

Saturn linking to Venus, Mercury and Sun in the order directly 
either being together or in trines without other planets interfering 
in between will cause supreme yoga of wealth. 

Jupiter linking to Venus in the same sign or in trines indicates 
ordinary material conditions. 

In the above combinations: 

If Moon is linked loss of material matters are indicated 

If Mars is linked litigation, expenses are indicated 

If Rahu is linked unethical and frauds are indicated 

If Ketu is linked disputes and blocks of material matter are 
indicated. 

With strong combination of Saturn and Venus and Mercury 
the other planets will indicate the nature of such material 
benefits. 

Marriage: 

Traditional method: 

7 th lord if associated with Venus not having influence of 
malefic planets, the native will have single marital life. 

More than one marriage is predicted if: 

a. 7 th lord is associated with malefic planets while 2 nd and 7 th 
also posited by malefic planets 

b. Venus in 11 th or debilitated while 7 th lord in 6 th or 12 th house 

c. If more number of malefics are posited in ascendant 

d. Weak Saturn, Mars and Venus in 2 nd or 7 th , 8 th , 4 th and 12 th 



180 Roots of Naadi Astrology; A Comprehensive Study 

Illicit relationship: 

1. Mercury in 7 th 

2. 2 nd , 7 th and 10 th lords in 4 th 

3- Ketu in 7 th makes spouse to be violent 

Early marriage 

Strong Venus and 7 th lord in good houses will cause early 
marriage 

Conjunction of 7 th lord and Karaka Venus while Sun in 7 th 
makes early marriage 

Conjunction of 7 th , 8 th lords with Venus also indicate early 
marriage 

Marriage right time: 

Venus in Kendra to Lagna and the dispositor of Venus is in 
11 th gives marriage at right time. 

Mars with 2 nd lord while Venus is in 2 nd 

Delayed Marriage: 

Ascendant Lord, 7 th lord and Venus are all in fixed sign 
while Moon in a movable sign 

7 th house and 7 th lord if linked to Saturn or Sun and if 
Venus is in Capricorn or Aquarius 

Marriage denial: 

Weak 7 th house and 7 th lord influenced by malefics having 
nodes in 7 th 

2 nd and 7 th lord together in a house afflicted by malefics 

12 th lord and Moon if afflicted by malefics and debilitated in 
Rasi or Amsha 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 181 



Character and nature of marital life: 

The lordships, nature of sign, planets and their natural 
significations are all considered to delineate marital life and 
character of spouse. Being voluminous it is impossible to 
accommodate all of them in this limited section. 

Marital matters Naadi Method: 

A. JUP if linked to Venus in 1, 5, 9, 2 nd , 12 th or 7 th places 
counted from Jupiter early male marriage is indicated 

B. SAT if linked to Venus in 1, 5, 9, 2 nd , 12 th or 7 th places 
counted from Saturn delayed male marriage is indicated 

C In the above combination instead of Venus if Mars is involved 
it indicates female marriage early or delay as the case may 
be 

D. Mars linking to Venus also indicate female marriage 

E. Ketu linking to Venus will indicate problems for male getting 
married or there could be marital disputes 

R Instead of Venus if Mars is involved it indicates female marital 
problems 

G. In both the cases that is E and F if Jupiter is linked the 
problems will be solved 

H. Linking of Rahu to Venus (naadi placements 1, 5, 9, 2 nd , 
12 th ) indicate delay or denial of marriage for a male native, 
if married, wife will not be faithful 

I. Rahu linking to Mars will indicate delay or denial of marriage 
to a female and if married she dislikes husband. 

J, Combination VEN + KET + MAR, indicate separation or de- 
linking factor between wife and husband. Jupiter if aspect 
this combination then compromise is possible 

K. MER+KET+MAR in same direction or same sign separation 
or divorce is possible 



182 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

L VEN+RAH+MAR this combination in same sign or same 
direction in a male horoscope indicate separation in female 
horoscope it indicates ill treatment to husband by wife. 

M. MER+KET in the same sign or same direction especially in 
human signs or in odd signs whether male or female 
horoscope indicates love affair. If this combination is 
supported either by Jupiter or Venus this will turn into 
marriage. Mars will break the love affair. If Moon association 
brings blames to them. Saturn involvement indicates the 
love affair at work place. If Sun involves the affair will be 
fair and known to everybody but will be success if only 
Jupiter aspect it. 

N. VEN+MOO (while Mars crossing Ketu) will indicate 
pregnancy before marriage. If Rahu involves with Venus or 
Moon the same will be a secret affair and may run away 
with lover. Jupiter if involved between Venus and Moon 
then she will only contemplate on such matters but does 
not do it. 

O. MER +VEN++MAR- This indicates dual relationship of female 

P. MER+MAR+VEN- indicates dual relationship of male 

Q. MOO+MAR+VEN also indicate dual relationship of male 

R. MER+VEN+SAT this female will be happy with lover 

S- If Venus is approached by Rahu and if there is a link of 
Ketu and Mars it is the combination for widow in a female 
horoscope 

T. Jupiter or Saturn linking to more number of female planets 
indicate multiple relationship in a male horoscope 

U. Venus having aspect of Saturn, Rahu or Ketu in case of 
male horoscope, Mars having aspect of Saturn Rahu or Ketu 
in case of female horoscope indicate denial of marriage 
and if Jupiter is supporting Venus or Mars with remedial 
measure the marriage can take place 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 183 

V. Combination of Venus, Moon and Mercury in any order, in 
either male or female horoscope indicate immoral nature 
of the person 

W, Saturn + Venus indicate working lady as wife in a male 
horoscope and it also indicate prosperity after marriage 

X. Jupiter and other planets link to it indicate character of the 
male in a male horoscope and Venus and other planets link 
will indicate wife's nature. 

Y, In a female horoscope, the Venus and linked planets will 
indicate her character and Mars and other planets link to it 
will indicate husbands nature 

Z. Ultimately in male horoscope: Venus, Mercury, Moon 
represent females and Jupiter, Saturn represent the Jeeva 
and Karma. Mars is Deha and Rahu unethical and Ketu is 
dejection. In Female instead of Venus just take Mars and 
link all other planets according to horoscope. Logical 
combination with these planets marital matters can be 
predicted. 

Child birth: 

Traditional method: 

5 th house, 5 th Lord Jupiter, alternatively 7 th and 9 th lords are 
considered for child birth. 

Naadi Method: 

Sun is male child and Venus is female child. 

If there is a link of Jupiter to Sun in 1, 5, 9, 2, 12, 7 places 
as per naadi the native will beget a male child 

If there is a link of Jupiter to Venus in 1, 5, 9, 2, 12, 7 
places as per naadi the native will beget a female child 

Rahu eclipsing Sun or Venus may cause denial or deprival 
or danger to born child 



184 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Ketu eclipsing Sun or Venus indicate obstruction in child 
birth 

Moon Venus combination indicates lesser sperm count in 
males and the same combination in female horoscope indicate 
problems in ovaries and therefore conception may not be strong 
enough or may not even conceive. 

Sun and Venus combination (that is within a quarter of 
same Nakshatra) indicate denial of child birth 

Saturn linking to either Sun or Venus indicates delayed child 
birth. 

Number of children is indicated by an experimental method 
which is proved in most of the cases as correct. 

Note the Jupiter position and from there link all the planets 
linked to it through 1, 5, 9, 2, 7 and 12 if Jupiter retro. 

Similarly write down the planets associated with Saturn in 
the same places as prescribed by Naadi. 

Confirm that Jupiter or Saturn is linked to Sun to note the 
male child birth or to Venus to female child birth. 

Linking of Sun, Mer, and Mar indicate male children and 
Ven Mer Moo indicate female children. Strike out the planets 
which are afflicted by Rahu and Ketu, remaining will be number 
of children. 

Next method is: in a male horoscope bring Venus to Mars 
and in a female horoscope bring Mars to Venus and then rotate 
them hypothetically in each sign at the rate of 1 year in a sign 
and find out the male and female planet linking to them in 1, 5, 
9, 2 nd or 7 th places and ensure that during that period of rotation 
Jupiter is linking to the rotating planets. If in rotation Rahu or 
Ketu encounters stop rotation and take the number of planets 
earlier linked as children. But if Jupiter is placed after Rahu and 
Ketu while rotating take from the point of Jupiter the planets 
linked to it and earlier planet will indicate abortive, deprived or 
denial of progeny. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 



185 



Example 







juris 


Ke9 


\ Ma 16 /\ Ke 9 / 

2xX Sa 21 NX JuR 
9K As 27 y\^ 15 

Su 4 x / x / 
m i\ 8 X Mo 5 X 12 
Me 13/*gV /ll\ 

/ Ra 9\ /^ N. 
/ Ve21 \/ \ 




Natal Chart 
Rashi (Dl) 


Sa21 
As 27 


Mo 5 


Ma 16 


Ra9 
Ve21 


Su4 
Me 13 







The marriage took place in 1942. So I take Mars with Venus 
in Sagittarius and till 1943. In 1944 both Venus and Mars 
encounter Moon which is having Jupiter in 5 th and Saturn in 7 th . 
Jupiter is linking to Sun and Merucruy. The naitve have two 
sons. The Moon being in Saturn house and having aspect of 
Saturn indicates some other matters of marital life which we 
are not interested. After Jupiter there is a blocking planet Ketu 
and thereore no further issues. 

Foreign Travel: 

Traditional astrology 

4 th house 8 th houses afflicted and lords are having strength 
and 12 th , 9 th are having strength and involvement of Rahu 
indicates foreign stay or travel 



In Naadi: 

Jupiter Moon Rahu in the same direction or in the same 
sign or any one of them linked to other two in conjunction will 
indicate the foreign journey 

Saturn Moon and Rahu in similar position will also indicate 
foreign tour 



186 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

If Mercury involved in the above combination the native 
may go on educational purpose or his siblings may have foreign 
journey 

If Sun is involved, the native may visit foreign countries 
either for some arts show or his father, or his son may have 
foreign travel 

If Mars is involved husband or brother of may visit foreign 
countries 

If Venus is involved, the native may visit foreign country 
for finance or arts matter or his wife, daughter, daughter in law 
may visit foreign land. In a female horoscope the native herself 
may visit foreign. 

Rules in traditional Astrology for horoscope assessment 

Bhava analysis 

Lordship analysis 

Karaka analysis 

Yoga and Avayoga 

Shubha and Ashubha 

Maraka analysis 

Strength of planets for natural significations 

Amshas, Ashtaka varga and many more components are 
involved in assessment, 

Naadi Rules Analysis: 
Strength of Planets 

Exalted planets 
Planet in friendly house 
Planet in own house 
Planet with friends 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 187 

Planet hemmed between friendly planets 

Planets linked to friendly planets in 1, 5, 9, 2, 7, and 12 

Weakness of Planets 

Debilitated Planet 

Planet in Enemy house 

Planet with Enemies 

Planet hemmed by Enemy planet 

Combust planet 

Planet with Rahu or Ketu 

Modifications 

Exchange and Retrograde Planets 

Obstructions 

Planet linked to enemy planet in 1, 5, 9, 7, 2, 12 

The following matters can be studied selecting the 
Karaka planet 

Jupiter to study the character of a male native 

Venus in female horoscope to study the character of female 
native 

Mercury to be selected to know about education 

Saturn is the Profession planet 

Venus is to be selected to study Finance, assets and luxuries 

Mercury to be selected for Lands 

To Study relatives: 

Sun indicate both father and son 

Moon indicates mother, mother in law and elder sister 



188 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Mars indicates brother, husband 

Mercury indicates younger siblings, cousins, lover, 2 nd spouse 

and friend 

Venus indicates wife, daughter, and daughter in law 

Saturn indicates elder brother and 2 nd husband in case of 
woman 

How the planet give results: 

Select any planet for the matter to be examined 

Note the planets posited along with the selected planet 
degree wise. The Planet which are approaching the selected 
planet indicates the matters that are related to selected planet 
and the planet which is behind will indicate the matter in the 
background 



For example: 










Juris 


Ke9 




Natal Chart 
Rashi (Dl) 


Sa21 
As 27 


Mo 5 


Ma 16 


Ra9 

Ve21 


Su4 
Me 13 








In the above horoscope if we want to see the education 

We must select Mercury. 

Mercury is in Scorpio: 

Mercury is having Sun behind and it has Saturn in 9 th and 
Jupier in 7 th which is again havng Moon in 9 th to Jupiter and 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 189 

next house it has Rahu and then from Leo there is Mars and 
afterwards there is Venus, 

The educational career of this native has strong back ground 
of Father's influence and more of practical nature and undergone 
changes or change of place due to hurdles of Mars and Rahu 
and then continued the education 

A planet approaching the karaka planet selected will give 
its karakatwa to the selected planet which logically need to be 
modified for the required matter. 

Since planets in one direction are considered to be together 
it is better to group the planets in four directions as earleir 
explained. 

Degree wise combination is essential to be precise on 
combining significations. 

Simple rule: Planets which are friendly to the selected plaent 
will give favourble results of the matter selected while the enemy 
planet will give adverse results. 

Sometimes we may see the karaka planet is associated 
with a enmey planet but by exchange with another planet the 
enemy planet may replace a friendly planet. This will modify 
and give good results. The reverse can also happen. 

Therefore exchange of planet is most imporatant factor in 
Naadi. Normally in a horoscope if you find planetary exchange, 
there will either be good results first and later bad results or 
vice versa based on the nature of exchanged planets. If there is 
an exchange between two good planets then the matter may 
enhance good results by interference signfications of planets 
involved. 

Exchange also indicates the juxtaposition of relatives or 
persons involved to modify the results. 

Debllated planet indicates the difficult situations of the 
person or matter indicated by that planet. 



190 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Exalted indicates the desirious attitude and ease factor of 
related signification. 

A retrograde planet will have effect on the previous sign 
and therefore if a friendly planet is situated in the previous sign 
the effects will be positve if there is an enemy planet then the 
effect will be negative. 

A planet may also get exchanged effect in its retro position, 
or it may get the effect of another planet which get exchanged 
with the planet posited behind the karaka planet. 

Retrograde and Exchange of planets indicate diversification 
and different effects at different stages. For every incident once 
noted with a combination, the retro effect is to be taken for 
next incident and if there is an excahnge, for next incident 
exchanged position is to be taken. For further incidents again 
original position and repeat the process to cover all the planets 
link to give the entire prediciton whch follow one after the 
another. 

By exchange or retro the planet may get exhalted or 
debilaited these things are to be noted. 

Timing of events: 

Traditional astrology: 

Dasha Bhukti Antara Sookshma and Prana are different 
periods of planets which will decide the timing of an event. 
Normally astrolgoers read upto Dasha and Bhukti and a few of 
them go up to Antara. Sookshma and Prana requires accurate 
birth time therefore, instead of going in detaH of these levels 
they resort to transit effects. 

In Nadi Astrology: 

Timiing of event in Naadi astrology is purely based on transit 
of planets. For major events only four planets that is Jupiter, 
Saturn Rahu and Ketu are taken. Jupiter takes 12 years to 
complete one round of Zodiac. Saturn taken 30 years. Rahu/ 
Ketu takes 18.5 years. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 191 

One principle is to take Jupiter's original position for the 12 
years and then link the planets as per naadi and asssess the 
results. These results will be effective during the transit of Jupiter 
on these planets or in its time or in 2 nd or 12 th to it. Some times 
results are given in other places too if that sign happens to be 
own sign or exalted sign of either karaka planet or the transiting 
Jupiter. 

Saturn rotation is taken for incidents relating to Karma. 
Normally it is taken for professional matters. However, some 
incidents in life are to take place according to previous karma 
which is denoted by planets linking to Saturn in birth chart. 
Those incidents will take place when Saturn in transit link them. 
However along with the incident the experiencer that is jeeva 
karaka Jupiter must also participate. 

Rahu transit indicates the dangers, unethical or displacments 
etc., Ketu indicates blocking, obstructive, de-linking and 
disputable matters. 

Transit effects of four slow moving planets Jupiter, Saturn, 
Rahu and Ketu on other planets and vice versa is given below 
which is a powerful tool in naadi astrology, 

JUP ON SUN 

Native has chances of promotion, cooperation and 
recognition. He may get government favours or he may 
participate in activities relating to government or social nature 
birth of a son. 

SUN ON JUP 

Status, contact with noble person, cooperation from cultured 
persons. 

JUP ON MOO 

Blames from enemies, cold related problems, change of 
residence, mother turns devotional. Birth of female child, contact 
with females 



192 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive^Study 

MOO ON JUP 

Travel aspects, contact with women, happy celebrations 
JUP ON MAR 

' Hasty stubbornness keeps him away from inmates, exercises 
power, and develops tension and blood pressure. Construction 
or technical activities may be successful. One of his brothers 
gets success and position in society. Female horoscope marriage 
prospects, if married husband gets promotion. 

MAR ON JUP 

Danger from fire, blood pressure heat problems, 
stubbornness haste but good time for husband 

JUPONMER 

If native is a student educational success, native gets new 
knowledge, younger siblings gets prosperity, cooperation from, 
knowledgeable persons. Gains in land are indicated. Professionals 
may have successful training or meetings. Native may contact 
female friends 

MER ON JUP 

Promotional and good period for younger siblings, native 
may come across a friend offering a help. Native may get 
communication of benefit. 

JUP ON JUP 

It will be a very good time for native to concentrate on self- 
development, decision to make additions to family, child birth. 

JUP ON VEN 

Affluence, assets, marriage, birth of daughter, celebrations 
and buying of comforts are indicated 

Note: - in natal chart Jupiter and Venus combination is not 
favorable for affluence (money). But in transit Jeeva karaka is 
being in the material world has to accept the affluence coming 
from Venus. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 193 

VEN ON JUP 

Financial gain, misunderstanding in the family, acquiring 
luxurious goods, happiness and celebrations at home 

JUP ON SAT 

Native gets employment, promotion: 

Note (l):-if natal Mars are linked to Saturn, obstructions in 
getting job or promotion. 

In a female chart, Mars as husband views Saturn as another 
person, hence husband suspects the wife. 

Note (2):-if Moon is linked to Saturn in natal chart, financial 
loss, expenses in getting promotion, change of place of work, 
blames and cold related problems to native. The same results 
for professional matters to female if working, 

SAT ON JUP 

Professional growth, promotion, status, good opportunities, 
new avenues - there will be appreciation for the work. This 
transit is a life settling transit and turning point in life. But due 
to Saturn and Jupiter combination there will be gas problems to 
the native. 

JUP ON RAH 

The transit Jupiter will lose power to bestow the benefits of 
the good results of the natal planets mentioned above and 
instead, will be under illusions. The significations of the planetary 
diseases may lead to seriousness resulting in hospitalization, 
surgery and medication and/or other good effects of the 
planetary significations may be obstructed. If natal Jupiter also 
links to transit Rahu death like dangers are indicated. 

If Saturn and Ketu linked to each other directly or through 
other planets, simultaneously in transit and natal charts, it 
indicates end of karma. If Jupiter and Rahu also linked in the 
similar way it indicates end of life. Jupiter transit over Rahu in a 
female chart indicates problems of progeny and hysteria etc. 



1 94 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



RAH ON JUP 

Native captured with fear of death and may encounter 
accidents. The mindset will be full of fear complex unpleasant 
incidents witnessed will haunt the native continuously. Death of 
close relative is indicated and he will have to perform last rites. 
During this period, usually black marks will appear on the face 
of the native. This transit also indicates ill health problems to 
native. This also provokes to move in bad circle of friends. With 
other death inflicting combinations, it may cause danger to life. 

JUP ON KET 

Gives divine knowledge to the native, occult powers and 
this planet being a blocking nature will block materialistic benefits 
and it will give choking effect and pains in joints and body 

KET ON JUP 

The native will become philosophical due to obstructions 
caused to material matters by Ketu in transit. He will be 
disinterested in life and he will be wandering aimlessly like a 
renounced person and will not be caring for maintaining his 
appearance. He will be mentally depressed. Nevertheless, to a 
well-trained philosophical mind this transit gives deeper 
knowledge in metaphysical matters. This transit will also cause 
ill health problems causing nerves debility and body pains. 

SAT ON SUN 

This being an enemy planet to Saturn, in professional field 
there could be stress and opposition, but it will not stop him 
from getting the right recognition and cooperation from parental 
side. In spite of this he has to face troubles from higher ups 
and father. This may also lead to ill health to native. Father may 
also face professional hazards by entry of new persons, dispute 
with son and ill health problems. With Mars and Rahu may 
cause heart related problems. A Jupiter effect may ward off all 
problems, and this double transit may lead to birth of son. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 195 



SUN ON SAT 

Over ruling by officials, lack of confidence to native, blames 
and financial stress are indicated. 

SAT ON MOO 

There will be change of profession or transfers, unnecessary 
blames, displeasures, tensions and expenses, loss to native and 
cold related problems. If natal Moon is weak may lead to 
involvement with wicked women and face troubles. The mother 
of the native will undergo ill health problems. (Note: -Jupiter's 
link may reduce ill effects and may give good results and transit 
Jupiter with transit Saturn may result in birth of female child) 

MOO ON SAT 

Change of place in work, liking for old persons, blames, 
unrest, expenses 

SAT ON MAR 

Mental tensions, harassment in profession, pressure from 
higher ups disputes, quarrels in work field. His egoistic nature 
will be a cause for this. All these may lead to think of quitting 
the work. Similar situation will be there for husband in female 
horoscope and for brotherly significance on both sides will have 
similar effect and all of them including native may be accident 
prone (especially if Rahu is also involved). Jupiter influence may 
reverse the situation and support technical prospects may gain 
landed property. If jobless, youth may get job of hard work. 
Students, if Mercury also supports may lead to technical 
education 

MAR ON SAT 

Harassment at work place, enmity, money loss, accidents 

SAT ON MER 

For students it will be a period of good educational success 
though delayed but get cooperation from friends. Native may 
gain new knowledge and profession-related training or education 



196 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

commercial activities, business success and cooperation from 
friends. New business activities, purchase of lands are also 
indicated. Younger sibling will also be flourishing with career 
prospects. 

MER ON SAT 

Business gains, lands, help from friends 

SAT ON VEN 

Marriage prospects, girlfriend, affluence, assets, marriage, 
birth of daughter, celebrations at both native's and in laws place 
are some of the signfications of this transit. Good financial 
prospects to native. Wife may suffer due to ill health and laziness 

VEN ON SAT 

Wife or female at home may feel lazy and may have health 
problems. Unexpected celebrations at home, financial fortune 
are predictable to native 

SAT ON SAT 

Saturn itself is a work indicating planet, transit Saturn 
indicates additional work. Heavy work makes man tired and 
efficiency level may drop and may get problems due to this. 
However, this will indicate only hectic work and also less progress 
in the field of work. Nerves break down and health problems 
may crop up. 

SAT ON RAH 

When karma planet enters natal Rahu it gives its 
significations to the karma. Rahu represent shadow, the native 
may involve in shadow activity in his work field. Rahu represent 
immorality, native may indulge in such activity in professional 
field. Rahu represent secrets, native may secretly do unethical 
work. Rahu represent foreign it could mean a foreign work or 
work at foreign place provided travel indicator Moon is linked in 
natal chart and for smooth going of foreign work there must be 
a connection of friendly planet like Jupiter or Venus. Rahu also 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 197 

indicates last rites and Saturn indicates karma, the native may 
have to perform last rites to the departed soul. Rahu also indicate 
evil spell, the native may involve in performing black magic or 
get afflicted by such acts by others. Rahu is of repetitive nature 
and native may engage in repetitive activities, 

RAH ON SAT 

An eclipsing planet is approaching karma; therefore there 
is possibility of his work being eclipsed. Rahu being a demonic 
planet he may encounter wicked people in his life. He may be 
loaded with heavy repetitive work. Being a retro planet, he may 
have to put efforts to clear pending works. He may be de- 
promoted and resorted for lower jobs. 

SATONKET 

Unless there is a good aspect from Jupiter, Mercury, Venus, 
the transit of Saturn over Ketu results in dejections and disputable 
situations at work field. The native may face disputes, dejections 
obstructions and troubles in work sphere. The involvement of 
Mars & Moon while this transit is operative is sure sign of losing 
the job, work or business. The native may involve in litigations, 
disputes and he will be aimlessly wandering over places and 
incur financial loss. He may visit holy places. 

Note: - If the native is in the line of divinity, and. his 
profession relates to metaphysical activities then this combination 
will lead him to more involvement and contentment in 
philosophical works. 

KET ON SAT 

The native's professional life will be in depressed condition 
though attending work. The native will be contemplating over 
renunciations and the natives will not care for their appearance. 
They intend to visit holy places. However there will not be any 
peace of mind for them. They become like a laughing stock 
among the society. At such circumstances if Mars also joins 
they may quit the job. 



198 Roots of Naadi Astrology; A Comprehensive Study 



RAH ON SUN 

It may cause ill health & dangers to father and son. It will 
block the help from government or authorities. It also indicates 
secret moves of authorities. The native may become irreligious. 

SUN ON RAH 

Speculative gain, father lazy health problem 

RAH ON MOO 

It is danger to mother, daughter, mother-in-law etc. Moon 
signify mind therefore, the eclipse effect on the mind may cause 
fear complex. Confusion may prevail on many matters and the 
decisions will be wrong later to repent. These periods may attract 
witchcraft effect on the native. This may also indicate loss due 
to foreign transactions or persons. With a benefic link to Moon, 
this transit will ensure a foreign travel. This also indicates secretly 
eloping with opposite sex. The mind will be in eclipsed state 
hence, may yield to pleasures beyond restrictions. 

MOO ON RAH 

Hallucinations, women involvement, changes to mother 

RAH ON MAR 

Mars being a violent planet, when suppressed by Rahu, it 
may turn out to accidents, blood defects and with Sun it causes 
heart attacks. For brother it indicates danger and ill health and 
renders him inactive. This also indicates endangering situation 
to husband" in a female horoscope or hardship situations to 
him. This also causes de-linking with the persons indicated by 
Mars and the other planet in combination. 

MAR ON RAH 

Brother or husband may get into illusions and dangers by 
accidents and the native may involve in over indulgence in his 
activities and he may also be prone to accidents. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 199 



RAH ON MER 

This may mar the intelligence, may cause reversal in 
education. This is an indication of troubles and dangers to 
younger siblings and friends. Skin allergies may crop up. It could 
create problem in land matters. On the positive side, with other 
good connection, it may result in foreign meetings, interviews, 
foreign education, training or media related works. It may also 
open up foreign business or tie ups. It may also trigger a secret 
affair with opposite sex 

MER ON RAH 

Native may try to resolve matters relating to communication/ 
talent and related matters. He may get affected by skin 
infections, 

RAHONVEN 

This transit on Venus brings material benefits to native like 
construction of floors on the house, vehicle purchase and luxury 
items. There will be unexpected income or wealth. (This is 
subject to natal position of Venus linked to Saturn without Moon, 
Mars & Ketu). It also supports illicit affairs to male native. 
However this transit is not good for women folks related to 
native like wife, daughter and daughter-in-law etc. They will be 
under the evil spell, hallucinations and subjected to ill health. 
This transit will have separating effect. 

VEN ON RAH 

Good time to purchase vehicles. This period may cause 
hard time and troubles to females. 

KET ON SUN 

The effect on father will turn him to be more divine and 
makes him visit holy places. He may get instructions from 
government. The native may also turn towards divinity. This 
may cause ill health to father and may block the progress of 
son. 



200 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

SUN ON KET 

Father goes spiritual, problems with children 

KET ON MOO 

Native becomes religious minded and turn towards God 
and charity. The native might have mental unrest. He may also 
sound adamant. The mother of the native may also turn 
philosophical besides suffering from ill heath there could be 
blood defects and related problems to native 

MOO ON KET 

Little dispute with parents, ill health to mother. Mental upset 
to native. 

KET ON MAR 

This will make native to suffer from blood related problems 
and nerves debility. He will be adamant. He will have some sort 
of displeasure due to his brother and the brother may have 
impediments. There could also be some land disputes (if Mercury 
also involves). In a female chart, this position will indicate the 
obstructions, dejection to the husband. 

MAR ON KET 

Stubbornness, desire for power 

KET ON MER 

This indicates bondage with a girl or boyfriend and some 
sort of dispute with them. Father-in-law will have to face 
litigations. Educational disturbances, intelligence marred. The 
native may also face legal matters, there could be some 
involvement of legal matters during this period or he will be 
interested in such matters. Land dispute may also arise to native 
(if Mars involved dispute with kith and kin for land). Transiting 
of Ketu between Mars and Venus causes dispute between 
husband and wife and involvement of Mercury indicates 
interference of other person. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 201 



MER ON KET 

Native may resort to spiritual knowledge though there may 
be obstructions in regular material intelligence matters. 

KET ON VEN 

The elder sister and wife will face obstruction and this will 
cause mental problems. There will be family disturbances and 
relational problems. In female chart the woman will face 
litigations and both male and female natives may face financial 
blocks. Normally in woman horoscope Ket combination with 
Venus indicates the saving mentality of woman. 

In a female horoscope if natal Ketu is with Venus, and then 
this transit will make her to hoard money during this period. 
Blocking of funds and assets are possible during this period. 
Separation of husband and wife is also indicated. There will be 
gloomy atmosphere in the entire family. During this period, a 
male may become victim to a woman. 

VEN ON KET 

III health to wife or sister's relational and family problems. 

Transit rules: 

A transiting planet may give its effect much before or after 
crossing the natal planet of event, if the sign ahead or behind 
of that planet is exalted or own house of either natal planet or 
transiting planet. A transiting planet will not give results when 
it encounters an enemy planet in front of it (provided such 
enemy planets are linked originally in natal chart). In these 
circumstances it may give result when it retrogrades provided 
that retrograde place does not have an enemy or an obstructive 
planet to the matter indicated by the natal planet. If a sign lord 
is associated with a friendly planet or if he relates to the matter 
of the planet with whom he associates, the transiting planet 
may activate him when it transits the own or exalted signs of 
associated planet even the position does not fall in the purview 
of naadi links. 



202 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



These are some of the rules and system of Bhrighu Nandi 
Naadi. 

Applying these rules an example is given for Naadi Phala 
and Transit results. 

Example 1 



Sul5 

Me 22 


Vel 
Sal4 
Ma 23 




As 22 


Ke 18 5>< As 22 Xl Sa 14 

/ \ / x 13 23 

/ ^ Su 15 \ 
J i U n R VK Mo 13 ?4 X X 


Ral8 


Natal Chart 

Rashi (Dl) 

Example 1 

Female 

DOB: 30-3-1970 
TOB: 12.25 

POB: Hyderabad 






Kel8 


Mo 13 




JuRlO 





Planets in North: Sun +Mercury 
Planets in East Ven+Sat+Mar+Ket+Moo 
Planet in South -Jup(R) 
Planet in West - Jupiter +Rah 

Longevity: 

Rahu is approaching Jupiter, but Jupiter is directly linked 
Ven, Sat, Mar & Mon. By retro escaping Rahu and links Sun, 
Mer. Saturn has 3 planets and also aspect of Jupiter. She has 
more Karma to experience and clear. She lives long 

Education: 

Mercury has support of Sun and Mercury Mercury is 
debilitated. Mercury is in the house of Jupiter and Jupiter by 
retro goes to exalted place of Mercury and supports Mercury. 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 203 



Debilitated Mercury with Sun indicates the low level efforts 
of father towards knowledge. It indicates incapability of father 
to support for education of her daughter represented by Venus 
who is posited in Aries a house of Mars along with Saturn and 
Mars. Therefore, the beginning days of education were not 
comfortable for the native. She had hardships in getting 
education. Mercury linking to Saturn and Mars and Venus having 
Ketu in Leo indicates the native had intention of studying different 
subject which was afflicted by Ketu and Mars. Later period Jupiter 
by retro going to Virgo supported Mercury. She had to take up 
commercial study (Virgo +Mercury + Jupiter effect from Libra). 
She completed B.Com. 

Marriage: 

Take the planets in Eastern direction since Mars the indicator 
of husband is with other planets. Mother is linked to Saturn, 
Venus and Mars. It indicates that Mars is related to Mother 
through her elder brother who is in turn linking to Venus the 
native. Venus will get married to a relative of Mother. She got 
married to the son of mother's elder brother. Link of Ketu 
indicates not only known or relative it also indicates love affair. 
Moon, Mars and Venus link when linked to Ketu there could be 
a deep affair which turns into marriage when Jupiter supports 
it. 

Mars is with Saturn and Venus linking to Ketu and Moon. 
The husband is luxurious in nature and works hard to earn 
money and spends everything. He will have another association 
because of Moon + Ketu and therefore loses money and status. 
He also mentally tortures his wife (that is the Native). 

This makes her life miserable and therefore she needs to 
stand on her own leg. 

Saturn is next to Sun and Mercury who is supported by 
Jupiter who before getting retrograde directly links to Saturn. 
She took up the teaching job after marriage. 



204 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Children 

Sun is in Pisces which has Mercury with him but has Rahu 
behind and in front there are number of enemy planets and 
also the effect of Ketu. This blocks the birth of male child. 

Moon+Ket+Mars together afflicting Venus indicate an 
abortion and later on since Saturn a karma planet also supporting 
Venus, gave her a female child. 

Marriage took place when Jupiter transiting in Virgo which 
is 11 th place to Mars and Saturn was transiting in Sagittarius 
over Moon linking Venus and Mars together. Incidentally Mars 
was also transiting in Sagittarius. That is during January 1990 
Saturn transiting in Capricorn during October 1992, he linked 
to natal retrograde Jupiter in Virgo and Jupiter was transiting in 
Virgo to give a teacher's job. Again when Saturn reached Pisces 
during June 1995 she got a promoted. Saturn linked again to 
retrograde Jupiter in Virgo and transit Jupiter was in Scorpio 
linking transit Saturn in Pisces and by retro he linked both natal 
Saturn and natal Jupiter. 

Though there are marital problems due to number of planets 
afflicting Venus and Mars, the Jupiter support made wife and 
husband to be united. 

Note: If this methodology is adopted along with modified 
traditional astrology the predictions can precisely be made. 

Naadi transit Naik's system of prediction: 

1. Note the Lagna and find out the ruling Dasha planet and 
Bhukti planet: 

2. Both Dasha and Bhukti planet must be in friendly disposition 
to Lagna lord either by natural nature or by house 
compatibility 



Classical Naadi Systems: Bhrighu Nandi Naadi 205 

3. Dasha of 1, 5, 9 or 3, 7, 11 Lords and during Bhukti of lord 
representing these houses, the transit of Saturn and Jupiter 
will confer marital or progeny matters that is matters relating 
to relational matters. 

4. Dasha of 1, 5, 9, 3, 7, 11 coupled with 2, 6, 10 will support 
the transit of Saturn over Jupiter for professional success 

5. Dasha of 4 th , 2 nd , 11 th , 5 th , 9 th , and or Lagnesh, the transit 
of Saturn over Venus and support of Jupiter or vice versa 
will ensure financial and property gains. 

6. Dasha of 6, 8, 12 with Bhukti of Maraka or vice versa, Natal 
Jupiter and Saturn getting afflicted by Rahu and Ketu, Mars 
and Moon indicate danger and diseases to life, 

7. During Dasha of 12 th lord, 8 th lord and Bhukti of 6 th lord or 
3 rd lord the transit of Saturn on Moon and Ketu create difficult 
periods. 

8. Please go through Prashna Hora book of the author to find 
out the qualification of Dasha lord as Yoga and Shubha for 
each Lagna. During the Dasha of such good planets the 
transit of Saturn or Jupiter over friendly planet will yield 
positive results and if the Dasha is of bad houses these 
transits will not yield good results. 

9. It is a must that Dasha and at least up to Bhukti level the 
computation is correctly done so that we can match the 
Naadi transit with Dasha and Bhukti which ensures right 
timing of event. 



Stellar Based - Naadi System 
Method 1 



Late Sri H.R.Seshadri Iyer from Bangalore is another great 
astrologer who has experimented using stellar system and 
included some of the classical components generally used in 
Muhurtha. By his introductory writing it can be understood that 
he had referred to great works like Brihat Jaataka, 
Vidyamadhaveeyam, Chandrakala Naadi and many other works. 
It is obvious that the work of Satya Jaataka has also great 
influence on the research of this great astrologer. In fact this 
author has introduced some of the rare components in the 
predictive astrology which are not found generally in many 
astrological works. Each component has its root in some of the 
great classical works. Being a mathematician with his intelligence 
and extraordinary logic the author has summed up some of the 
unique points and brought out two volumes. Cleverly organized 
his points in these two volumes this work has been understood 
partially in the astrological circles and some of the latest 
computer astrological software includes a few points from this 
author's work to generate a required report. 

It is of no use to reader if the contents of these two volumes 
are simply reproduced. In order to make it more applicable to 
horoscope, I am explaining the major points and its applicability. 
Most of the first volume contains fundamentals and some 
extensive significations of signs; planets etc., Out of these most 
useful matters are discussed here. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 


207 


Indian years: 


1. Prabhava 


21. Sarvajeeth 


41. Plavanga 


2. Vibhava 


22. Sarvadhari 


42. Kilaka 


3. Shukla 


23. Virodhi 


43. Saumya 


4. Pramoda 


24. Vikrita 


44. Sadharana 


5. Prajapati 


25. Khara 


45. Virodhikruthi 


6. Angirasa 


26. Nandana 


46. Paridhavi 


7. Shrimukha 


27. Vijaya 


47. Pramadicha 


8. Bhava 


28. Jaya 


48. Ananda 


9. Yuva 


29. Manmadha 


49. Rakshasa 


10. Dhatri 


30. Durmukhi 


50. Anala 


11. Ishvara 


31. Hevilambi 


51. Pingala 


12. Bahudhanva 


32. Vilambi 


52. Kalayukthi 


13. Pramadhi 


33. Vikari 


53. Siddharthi 


14. Vikrama 


34. Sharvari 


54. Raudra 


15. Vrisha 


35. Plava 


55. Durmathi 


16. Chitrabhanu 


36. Shubhakruti 


56. Dundubhi 


17. Svabhanu 


37. Sobhakruthi 


57. Rudhirodgari 


18. Tarana 


38. Krodhi 


58. Raktakshi 


19. Parthiva 


39. Vishvavasu 


59. Krodhana 


20. Vyaya 


40. Parabhava 


60. Akshaya 



While discussing sixty Indian years the author suggests an 
idea of timing of events based on the distribution of 60 years 
with their names commencing from Kaliyuga presumed to have 
commenced in Aries on chaitra shukla Prathama and allots 6 
degrees to each year and completes all the sixty years in 12 
zodiac signs each sign indicating 5 years. Based on this he has 
correlated the English years to the corresponding Indian names 
of the years commencing from 1987 to 2046. Occurring 
debatable phenomena over a component involved in framing 
rules in astrology is historically proved and this one is no 
exemption. Therefore, correctness of correlating names of Indian 



208 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



years with English years depends upon the fixing of the date of 
commencement of Kaliyuga. He intended to introduce varga 
charts for timing of events using these year, month and tithi 
etc., overriding the Dasha bhukti system. Author was to further 
research on this subject hence further details are missing. 
However, this clue is enough to go ahead with research. Since 
each year is covered by 6 degrees the divisional charts needs 
corresponding computation to match the timing of events. 

This work gives some of the fundamental which are rarely 
used in practice such as Rithu (seasons). Commonsense will 
play a role in using the seasons in predictions. No extraordinary 
relationship to planets need be established with the seasons as 
the sensations experienced by human during these seasons 
can be co-related with the nature of planets. 



Indian 
seasons 


Beginn- 
ing 


End 


Indian 
Months 


Greeshma (Summer) 
-Sun-Mars 


Mid- 
April 


Mid- 
June 


Vaishakha, 
Jyeshta 


Varsha (Rainy) 
-Moon 


Mid- 
June 


Mid- 
August 


Ashadha, 
Shravana 


Sharad (Autumn) 
-Mercury 


Mid- 
August 


Mid- 
October 


Bhadrapada, 

Ash way uj a 


Hemanta (Winter) 
-Guru 


Mid- 
October 


Mid- 
December 


Kartika, 
Maargashirsha 


Shishira (Chill-wave) 
-Saturn 


Mid- 
December 


Mid- 
February 


Pushya, 
Magha 


Vasanta (Spring) 
-Venus 


Mid- 
February 


Mid- 
April 


Phalguna, 
Chaitra 



It is well known that the names of 12 months in Indian 
calendar are based on entry of Sun into a sign while the Moon 
is in a star during very close to Poornima. Thus when Moon is 
Chitta Nakshatra Sun entry into Aries is called Chaitra Masa. 
Similarly Moon's position in Vaishakha Sun's entry into Taurus 
and likewise, Jyeshta Moon- Ashadha, Shravana, Bhadrapada, 
Aswija, Kartika, Mrigasira Pushya Magha and Phalguna are 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 209 



named after basing on the Moon opposite Sun position. This 
closely relates to zodiac relationship and equally, the seasons 
also relate to Zodiac position. Therefore, both seasons and 
months are integral part of Zodiac sign with reference to position 
of Sun and Moon. Further certain components like Paksha, Vara, 
Hora details are described in this work. 

Each one of them has bearing on the personality and destiny 
of the person. Of course not in the original material by the 
author the scribe includes this with examples for the benefit of 
readers. 

Effects of Shukla Paksha on birth 

This is progressing towards full Moon the brightness keeps 
on increasing. The Moon is representative of mind, emotions 
and changes. Therefore the person wilt be interested in various 
subjects and will be emotionally balanced and understand things. 
He will be honest in his relationships and will balance himself in 
all situations. He will have interest in arts and things of beauty, 
He may be comfortable in finance matters. 

Effects of Krishna Paksha on birth 

This period is declining bright phases of Moon towards 
Amavasya the darker side. He will be secretive about his 
relationships and will use this for his benefits. He may use tactics 
to get benefit from others. They are more self-centered, cunning 
and hypocrite in nature. They may live together in a large family 
yet they seek to be independent and different from others. 

Tithi: 

This is one of the major components which is used in 
Muhurtha and is very important in deciding the nature of the 
day for doing any work. Every 12 degrees difference between 
longitude of Sun and Moon is one Tithi. Total 30 Tithi makes 
360 degrees. These are divided in to two parts commencing 
from New Moon to Full Moon and again Full Moon to New Moon. 



210 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



In Indian calander it is called Shukla Paksha and Krishna Paksha. 
These are based on the phases of Moon on these two divisions. 
The same is illustrated below: 




Some of the astrological texts give the details of the qualities 
of persons born on each of these Tithi. I reproduce the same 
for the benefit of readers. 



Prathama: 

Good wife and native involves in illicit relationships 
Dwiteeya 

Seeker of truth, skilled in using weapons, liked by all 

Thriteeya 

Native intend to harm others and immoral in character and 
encounter immoral women. 

Chaturthi 

These people are helping in nature and they are also 
secretive 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 ' 211 

Panchami 

Good longevity, intelligent and good character 

Shashti 

Blessed with male progeny, inclined towards sensual 
pleasures and will have many friends 

Saptami 

They respect elders and scholars, they are of good nature 
and will be rich 

Ashtami 

Faithful to life partner, good orator, will have multiple 

interests. 

Navami 

Courage, passionate, arts lover and fearsome to enemies 

Dashami 

Commercial success and will be inclined towards technical 
knowledge. 

Ekadashi 

Indiscipline, jealous, and lustful 

Dwadashi 

Liked by women and make riches and will have more 
enemies 

Trayodashi 

Will make relatives happy and will have large circle of 
relatives, pure at heart and enjoy good health. 

Chaturdashi 

Good personality, healthy body, and independent thinking 
Poornima 

Good longevity, effective in all ventures will have long hair 



212 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Amavasya 

Will enjoy good life and they are fierce to their enemies. 

However the author does not import this idea of prediction 
in his astrological works but uses this for a specific purpose 
which shall be incorporated in identifying the qualitative effect 
of certain houses when falling in signs for the person born under 
specific tithi. 

Tithi is one component which is used in this work specially 
to identity the void Zodiac signs (Dagdha Rasi). A brief content 
with regard to Dagdha Rasi is quoted to have found in 'Vidya 
madhaveyam" a Sanskrit edition available in Mysore Oriental 
Library. Contradicting its correctness in the original text the 
author simply submits the Dagdha Rasi for persons born in 
certain Tithi. A table is appended below with extra information 
of planets ruling the Tithi in groups as Nanda, Bhadra, Jaya, 
Rfkta and Poorna and the lords of sfgns against it. 



Use of tithi in birth horoscopes: 

the following signs are called Dagdha Rasi that is Zero 
signs. Though author refers to its roots in 
Vidyamadhaveeyam research is required to correct 
them to use in the horoscope predictions as detailed 
below. However no logical explanation is given for 
attribution of zero signs against each tithi. 


Prathami-VEN 


Libra-Capricorn 


VEN-SAT 


Dwitieeya-MER 


Sagittarius-Pisces 


JUP 


Trfthiya-MAR 


Leo-Capricorn 


SUN-SAT 


Chaturthi-SAT 


Taurus-Aquarius 


VEN-SAT 


Panchami-JUP 


Gemini-Virgo 


MER 


Shashti-VEN 


Aries-Leo 


MAR-SUN 


Saptami-Mer 


Cancer-Sagittarius 


MOO-JUP 


Ashtami-MAR 


Gemini-Virgo 


MER 


Navami-SAT 


Leo-Scorpio 


SUN-MAR 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 



213 



Dashami-JUP 


Leo-Scorpio 


SUN-MAR 


Ekadashi-VEN 


Sagittarius-Pisces 


JUP 


Dwadashi-MER 


Libra-Capricorn 


VEN-SAT 


Tryodashi-MAR 


Taurus-Leo 


YEN-SUN 


Chaturdashi-SAT 


Gemini-Virgo-Sagittarius-Pisces 


MER-JUP 


Poornima-JUP 


None 


NONE 


Amavasya-SUN 


None 


NONE 


Use in Horoscope: For a person born in these tithi the signs 
shown against them becomes zero signs and the relevant 
Bhava ruled by this sign will be of zero effect 



Persons born in these Tithi the signs shown against them 
will become Dagdha Rasi which is void and the Bhava denoted 
by this sign will have zero effect. Naturally, the lord ruling this 
Bhava or a planet posited in that sign will be defunct with respect 
to this Bhava. 



Nitya yoga in Panchangam: 

There are twenty seven yogas formed by combination of 
Sun and Moon. In panchangam Tithi is difference between the 
longitudes of Sun and Moon divided by 12 degrees. While yoga 
is the sum of Longitudes of Sun and Moon reckoned from Aries 
divided by a Star span of 13:20 minutes adding 1 to quotient. 
For example: 



Sun in Cancer 27: 22 


7042 Minutes 


Moon in Aquarius 13:40 


18820 Minutes 




TOTAL Minutes 


25862 


Divided by Minutes 


800 


Quotient 


32 


Add 


1 


Total 


33 


Greater than 27, hence Deduct 


27 


Yoga number: 


6 



214 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Table of 27 Yogas 


1. Vishkambha 


10. Ganda 


19. Parigha 


2. Preethi 


11. Vriddhi 


20, Shiva 


3. Aayushman 


12. Dhruva 


21. Siddha 


4. Sowbhagra 


13. Vyaghata 


22. Sadhya 


5. Shobhana 


14. Harshana 


23. Shubha 


6. Athiganda 


15. Vajra 


24. Shukla 


7. Snkarma 


16. Siddhi 


25. Brahma 


8. Dhriti 


17. Vyathipatha 


26. Indra 


9. Shoola 


18. Variyan 


27. Vaidhriti 



The 6 th number in the above table of yoga is Athiganda. 
This is used in Muhurtha. However the author cuts a new path 
on the lines of Professor K.S. Krishnamurti. The author maintains 
Yoga seriatim and allots a star to yoga commencing from 
Pushyami to Vishkambha and continues in the order of 
Vimshottari Dasha covering all 27 yoga with respective star lords. 
By his method we may not get the yoga number as prescribed 
in Muhurtha as it is not simply the sum of longitude of Sun and 
Moon, it also adds up the longitude of beginning of Pushyami 
star in Cancer sign. He prescribes the following method to derive 
at a zodiac point by adding 93:20 which is the starting point of 
Pushyami star to the Sum of Sun and Moon longitude. This 
point represented by a star is considered as Yoga point. The 
star lord as per Vimshottari Dasha is considered as Yogi. The 
above calculation is presented in accordance with the new 
method of this system. The Star lord represents as yogi and the 
sign lord where this point falls becomes an alternate yogi which 
the author termed it as "Duplicate Yogi" 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 



215 



SUN 



Moo 



Yoga 
Point 



COMPUTATION OF YOGA POINT 



In Birth chart 
Longitude 




117:22:00 



• In Birth chart 

• Add Longitude 




313:40:00 



• It is always Pushyami star in 

• Cancer - Add Longitude 



93:20:00 



Total 



407:00:00 



That is Taurus 47:00:00. the Star from 
40:00 to 53:20 is Rohini-Lord is Moon 



■(360:00:00) 
47:00:00 



Yogi: In the horoscope this point in the chart represents a 
star and the Lord of this star is Yogi ' 

Duplicate Yogi: The sign lord of this junction point is 
Duplicate Yogi 



Here the Yogi is Moon and the Venus the lord of Taurus is 
Duplicate YogL 

Having set a system to arrive at Yogi and Duplicate Yogi, it 
is essential to determine a Avayogi planet. For any Yogi planet 
the Avayogi planet is an Enemy. It is not the traditional 
classification of friendship and enmity which is to be considered, 
Because to derive Avayoga status to a planet the author goes 
one step ahead and deviates from the classical approach towards 
friendship, enmity and neutral factors of planets. I presume 
that he has considered this aspect only for the purpose of arriving 
at Avayoga status as nowhere in his texts he refers the classical 
approach of planetary relationships. 



276 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 





Yogi 


Enemy or Avayogi 


SUN 


SATURN 


MOON 


MERCURY 


MARS 


KETU 


MERCURY 


MARS 


JUPITER 


SUN 


VENUS 


JUPITER 


SATURN 


MOON 


RAHU 


VENUS 


KETU 


RAH 



This concept is not found in any of the traditional works 
either classical or Naadi approach. However some of them tally 
with Naadi principles Like Mercury and Mars, Saturn and Moon 
etc... The author does not give any logical explanation for this 
enmity factor to dignify a planet 'as Avayogi. (In this table 
enmity factor between Sun and Saturn, Moon and 
Mercury, Mercury and Mars, Venus and Jupiter, Saturn 
and Moon are to a certain extent coincide with 
traditionally accepted norms. Mars and Ketu, Jupiter and 
Sun, Rahu and Venus, Ketu and Rahu cannot be 
explainable. As a matter of fact the author himself 
includes Sun as benefic planet along with Jupiter group 
but tables him under enemy group- Despite having no 
logical explanations the scribe suggests to stick to the 
author's point of view) 

He further derives a three sets of planets where in one 
group will fall as enemy to other group which acts like Avayogi, 
The concept is illustrated below: 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 



217 



TftANSFIREFFeaSOF YOGI PtANETSAND 
RESPECTIVE AVAVOGI 



Deviating from the 

traditional method in 

this text the Friendship 

and enmity of Planets 

are grouped in to three 

sets as shown in the 

table below 



A Star planet of Yoga 

point if falls in any one 

of the friends group 

other two also attain 

yoga* For them the 

Planets in Enemy group 

wiJIbeAvayogi 





Friends 


oro 


MOO 


m 




Enemies 


RAH 


Mffi 


sun 




friends 


WW 


MM 


SAT 


Enemies 


m 


WET 


MOO 




friends 


SUN 


RAH 


Mft 


Enemies 


m 


VEtt 


MAA 



Despite the fact that the yoga point for this text is based on 
adding longitude of Pushyami star the beginning of yoga 
Vishkambha starts from this degree onwards. This differs from 
the normal computation of yoga in Muhurtha which is counted 
from Aswini. The significations of each of this yoga also differ in 
comparison. However author gives the following description of 
yoga based on computation advocated by him. 



218 




Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 






Yoga Birth Star 


Results 


1 


Vishkambha 


Pushya 


Wins over enemies, 
Wealthy 


2 


Priti 


Aslesha 


Attracted by women and 
loved by all 


3 


Ayushman 


Makha 


Long life and good health 


4 


Saubhagya 


Poorvaphalguni 


Comforts and happiness 


5 


Shobhana 


Uttaraphalguni 


Capricious and lustful 


6 


Atiganda 


Hasta 


Obstacles Accidents and 
Murdering instinct 


7 


Sukarma 


Chitta 


Virtuous 


8 


Dhriti 


Swati 


Interest in others wealth 
and women 


9 


Shula 


Visakha 


Angry and Quarrelsome 


10 


Ganda 


Anurada 


Evil natured 


11 


Vriddhi 


Jyeshta 


Discourses wisely 


12 


Dhruva 


Moola 


Wealthy and adamant 


13 


Vyaghata 


Poorvashadha 


Cruel 


14 


Harshana 


Uttarashadha 


Merry and Intelligent 


15 


Vajra 


Shravana 


Wealthy and Lustful 


16 


Siddhi 


Dhanishta 


Protect others, several 
achievements 


17 


Vyathipatha 


Satabisa 


Unreliable Cheat 


18 


Variyan 


Poorvabhadrapa 


Sinful acts 


19 


Parigha 


Uttara 


Quarrelsome, Wealthy 


20 


Shiva 


Revathi 


Composed, Expertise in 
Sastra, Wealthy, Royal/ 
honour 


21 


Siddha 


Aswini 


Religious, Good nature 


22 


Sadhya 


Bharani 


Good manners 


23 


Shubha 


Krittika 


Passionate, fair 
complexion, wealthy 



Stellar Besed-Naedi System-Method 1 



219 





24 


Shukla 


Rohini 


Talkative, fickleness, 
Impulsive 


25 


Brahma 


Mrigasira 


Good judgement, 
Secretive, aspiring 


26 


Indra 


Ardra 


Helping nature, Learned, 
Wealthy 


27 


Vaidhriti 


Punarvasu 


Strong, cunning, Wealthy, 
grumbling 



Though he deviates from the traditional system of 
considering yoga from Aswini star he supports his 
recommendation of counting Yoga from Pusyami star as its 
correctness is authenticated by his research. 

(Explanation: One possible argument to consider 
Cancer sign and Pushyami star starting point is, it is 
from here the Dakshinaayana starts where in all the 
festive seasons and auspicious days for functions begin 
in the mundane world. From Capricorn it is Uttarayana 
which represents exotic world the journey beyond body 
begins. A yoga or celebration is only for the living human 
being in the material world. Since Punarvasu has only 
one pada of Nakshatra which is at the beginning of sign 
normally considered as powerless for any planet, 
hopefully the next star Pushyami is considered. The deity 
of Pushyami star is Brihaspati that is Guru the Jeeva 
Karaka. This is only a hypothetical explanation in the 
absence of authors comment.) 



Karana 

Karana is half of a tithi is also component of Muhurtha. 
Though much significance is not attached to its use in predictive 
astrology in this work, its details are given. Like tithi it has 
certain qualities of birth the scribe feels that this can be used 
for the quality of Birth. Karana which of-course does not find 
any significant role in prediction astrology advocated by this 
system. 



220 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



(1) Bhava 


ELEVEN 

KARANAS 

USED IN 

MUHURTHA 


(6) Vanija 


(2) Balava 


(7) Bhadra 


(8) Shakuni 


(3) Koulava 


(9) Chatushpadam 


(4) Taithula 


(10) Nagava 


(5) Garija 


(11) Kimsthugnam 



The order of Karana for tithi 



TITHI 


SHUKLA PAKSHA 
-KARANA 


KRISHNA PAKSHA 
-KARANA 


1. Padyami 


Kimsthugna-Bhava 


Balava- Koulava 


2. Dwithiyam 


Balava-Koulava 


Taithula- Garija 


3. Thrithiya 


Taithula-Garija 


Vanija-Bhadra 


4. Chowthi 


Vanija-Bhadra 


Bhava-Balava 


5. Panchami 


Bhava-Balava 


Koulava-Taithula 


6. Shasti 


Koulava-Taithula 


Garija-Vanija 


7. Sapthami 


Garija-Vanija 


Bhadra-Bhava 


8. Ashtami 


Bhadra-Bhava 


Balava-Koulava 


9. Navami 


Balava-Koulava 


Taithula- Garija 


10, Dashami 


Taithula-Garija 


Vanija-Bhadra 


11, Ekadashi 


Vanija-Bhadra 


Bhava-Balava 


12. Dwadashi 


Bhava-Balava 


Koulava-Thaithula 


13. Thrayodashi 


Koulava-Taithula 


Garija-Vanija 


14. Chaturdashi 


Garija-Vanija 


Bhadra-Shakuni 


15. Poomima 


Bhadra-Bhava 


— 


30. Amavasya 


— 


Chatuspada-Nagava 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 221_ 

Planetary states of Dasha lord: Dasha Graha samyam: 

To find out the state of a planet count the number of signs 
the Ascendant moved from Aries. Again count the signs from 
Ascendant to sign where Dasha lord is posited in the natal chart. 
Multiply the sum of these two by twice the number of years 
allotted to of Dasha lord. Divide the product by 27 and the 
remainder will give the state of Dasha planet. 

This is not the Planetary Avastha discussed in earlier 
chapters. This computation and considerations are exclusively 
given to assess the condition of Dasha lord in this work. Author 
gives about 27 states of these planets and however does not 
seem to give much importance in application. Our aim is to pick 
up important applicable matters. Therefore I skip this 
information. 

Rectification of Dasha balance 

There is a reference to rectify the period of balance of Birth 
Dasha. He derives the 41 days difference computed by deducting 
324 of stellar days as (Dasha system is based on stars) from 
365 days of a calendar year. This difference per year have to be 
calculated on either balance of period remaining of a Dasha at 
birth time or the expired period of Dasha at birth time whichever 
is higher. The results in days converted to year month and days 
are to be added to the balance of Dasha. Then rest of the 
calculation remains unaltered. This is to be done only for birth 
time balance Dasha, 

This logic is applicable when manual calculations of Dasha 
are done. Latest computer programs have given options for 
different computing considerations. 

I am omitting the contents which deal with significations of 
signs and planets, stars and houses which are all available in 
many texts. I am also omitting the discussion on Ayanamsha. 



222 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Fundamentals like calculating Lagna etc. are of preliminary 
nature and I go directly to some of the important topics not 
generally covered in modern texts. 



Tatwa theory: 

In astrology four elements are adopted in sign qualities as 
shown below: the fifth Akasha tatwa is an integral part of all 
these tatwas. In this section the original author has used the 
five elements for time rectification and also to decide the gender 
of native. 



Sanskrit 


Western 


Tattva 


Nature 
(Element) 


Quality 


Lord 


1. Mesa 


Aries 


Tejas 
(Fire) 


Creative 
Energy 


Cara 

(Movable) 


Mars 


2. Vrsabha 


Taurus 


Prithivi 
(Earth) 


Sustaining ■ 

Energy 


Sthira 
(Fixed) 


Venus 


3. Mithuna 


Gemini 


Vayu 
(Air) 


Moving 
Energy 


Dvisvabhava 
(Dual) 


Mercury 


4. Karkata 


Cancer 


Jala 
(Water) 


Emotional 
Energy 


Cara 
(Movable) 


Moon 


5. Simha 


Leo 


Tejas 
(Fire) 


Creative 

Energy 


Sthira 
(Fixed) 


Sun 


6. Kanya 


Virgo 


Prithivi 
(Earth) 


Sustaining 
Energy 


Dvisvabhava 
(Dual) 


Mercury 


7, Tufa 


Libra 


Vayu 
(Air) 


Moving 
Energy 


Cara 
(Movable) 


Venus 


8. Vriscika 


Scorpio 


Jala 
(Water) 


Emotional 
Energy 


Sthira 
(Fixed) 


Mars 


9. Dhanus 


Sagittarius 


Tejas 
(Fire) 


Creative 
Energy 


Dvisvabhava 
(Dual) 


Jupiter 


10. Makara 


Capricorn 


Prithivi 

(Earth) 


Sustaining 
Energy 


Cara 

(Movable) 


Saturn 


11. Kumbha 


Aquarius 


Vayu 
(Air) 


Moving 
Energy 


Sthira 
, (Fixed) 


Saturn 


12. Meena 


Pisces 


Jala 

(Water) 


Emotional 
Energy 


Dvisvabhava 
(Dual) 


Jupiter 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 



223 



Though there have been references to these five elements 
in traditional astrology rarely the real use of this is discussed. 
However in this section, the author has suggested to use them 
to decide gender and also to rectify the time of birth. 
Authenticated from Jatakaphala Chintamani the author of this 
theory explains the five elemental cycles in a day. These are 
Prithvi (earth), Jala Tatwa (water), Agni (Fire), and Vayu (Air). 
These are of-course discussed in various parts of astrology and 
have relevance in day to day affairs. The scribe has tested this 
and planning to research its use in Naadi astrology. The element 
ruling at the time of birth will indicate the gender of the native 
born. This many times proved correct. 



TATWA CYCLES TO DECIDE MALE FEMALE BIRTH AND 
BIRTH TIME RECTIFICATION 


EPOCH IF WEDNESSDAY: 




Ascendein 


g order of tatwa 


From sun rise 


Prithvi Tatwa 


6Min 


Male 


Next 


JalaTattwa 


12 Min 


female 


Next 


Agni Tatwa 


18Min 


Male 


Next 


Vayu tatwa 


24Min 


female 


Next 


Akasha Tatwa 


30 Min 


Male 




Descendeing order of tatwa 


Next 


Akasha Tatwa 


30 Min 


Male 


Next 


Vayu tatwa 


24 Min 


female 


Next 


Agni Tatwa 


18Min 


Male 


Next 


JalaTattwa 


12 Min 


female 


Next 


Prithvi Tatwa 


6 Min 


Male 


Next 


the above ascending and descending order 
of tatwa completes 8 cycles in 24 hours 



224 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 





Tatwa in order 


First Tatwa on 


Duration 


Sex 


Prithvi (Earth) 


Wednesday 


6 


Male 


Appu (Water) 


Monday & Friday 


12 


Female 


Tejas (Fire) 


Sunday & Tuesday 


18 


Male 


Vayu (Air) 


Saturday 


24 


Female 


Akasha (Ether) 


Thursday 


30 


Male 




Tatwa in order 


First Tatwa on 


Duration 


Sex 


Tejas (Fire) 


Sunday & Tuesday 


18 


Male 


Vayu (Air) 


Saturday 


24 


Female 


Akasha (Ether) 


Thursday 


30 


Male 


Prithvi (Earth) 


Wednesday 


6 


Male 


Appu (Water) 


Monday & Friday 


12 


Female 




Tatwa in order 


First Tatwa on 


Duration 


Sex 


Akasha (Ether) 


Thursday 


30 


Male 


Prithvi (Earth) 


Wednesday 


6 


Male 


Appu (Water) 


Monday & Friday 


12 


Female 


Tejas (Fire) 


Sunday & Tuesday 


18 


Male 


Vayu (Air) 


Saturday 


24 


Female 




Tatwa in order 


First Tatwa on 


Duration 


Sex 


Appu (Water) 


Monday & Friday 


12 


Female 


Tejas (Fire) 


Sunday & Tuesday 


18 


Male 


Vayu (Air) 


Saturday 


24 


Female 


Akasha (Ether) 


Thursday 


30 


Male 


Prithvi (Earth) 


Wednesday 


6 


Male 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 



225 





Tatwa in order 


First Tatwa on 


Duration 


Sex 


Vayu (Air) 


Saturday 


24 


Female 


Akasha (Ether) 


Thursday 


30 


Male 


Prithvi (Earth) 


Wednesday 


6 


Male 


Appu (Water) 


Monday & Friday 


12 


Female 


Tejas (Fire) 


Sunday & Tuesday 


18 


Male 


Commencing on each at Sun rise first sequence in order. 2 nd 
sequence in reverse order including the last one. This is one 
Cycle of 3 hrs. 8 cycles equals to 24 hours. 



The same is given for all the week days 

An example is worked out to prove its credentials. The Birth 
details are given in the table itself. 



Birth 22-10-1976:17:00 


I- Hyderabad: Sun 


rise 


6:11 


Tatwa 


Gender 


Duration 


From 


To 


Tatwa 


Gender 


Duration 


From 


To 


Water 


Female 


0:12 


6:11 


6:23 


Water 


Female 


0:12 


12:11 


12:23 


Fire 


Male 


0:18 


6:23 


6:41 


Fire 


Male 


0:18 


12:23 


12:41 


Vayu 


Female 


0:24 


6:41 


7:05 


Vayu 


Female 


0:24 


12:41 


13:05 


Akasha 


Male 


0:30 


7:05 


7:35 


Akasha 


Male 


0:30 


13:05 


13:35 


Prithvi 


Male 


0:06 


7:35 


7:41 


Prithvi 


Male 


0:06 


13:35 


13:41 


Prithvi 


Male 


0:06 


7:41 


7:47 


Prithvi 


Male 


0:06 


13:41 


13:47 


Akasha 


Male 


0:30 


7:47 


8:1? 


Akasha 


Male 


0:30 


13:47 


14:17 


Vayu 


Female 


0:24 


8:17 


8:41 


Vayu 


Female 


0:24 


14:17 


14:41 


Fire 


Male 


0:18 


8:41 


8:59 


Fire 


Male 


0:18 


14:41 


14:59 


Water 


Female 


0:12 


8:59 


9:11 


Water 


Female 


0:12 


14:59 


15:11 


Water 


Female 


0:12 


9:11 


9:23 


Water 


Female 


0:12 


15:11 


15:23 


Fire 


Male 


0:18 


9:23 


9:41 


Fire 


Male 


0:18 


15:23 


15:41 


Vayu 


Female 


0:24 


9:41 


10:05 


Vayu 


Female 


0:24 ■ 


15:41 


16:05 


Akasha 


Male 


0:30 


10:05 


10:35 


Akasha 


Male 


0:30 


16:05 


16:35 


Prithvi 


Male 


0:06 


10:35 


10:41 


Prithvi 


Male 


0:06 


16:35 


16:41 


Prithvi 


Male 


0:06 


10:41 


10:47 


Prithvi 


Male 


0:06 


16:41 


16:47 


Akasha 


Male 


0:30 


10:47 


11:17 


Akasha 


Kale 


0:30 


16:47 


17:17 


Vayu 


Female 


0:24 


11:17 


11:41 


Vayu 


Female 


0:24 


17:17 


17:41 


Fire 


Male 


0:18 


11:41 


11:59 


Fire 


Male 


0:18 


17:41 


17:59 


Water 


Female 


0:12 


11:59 


12:11 


Water 


Female 


0:12 


17:59 


18:11 



226 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 





Water 


Female 


0:12 


18:11 


18:23 


Water 


Female 


0:12 


0:11 


0:23 


Fire 


Male 


0:18 


18:23 


18:41 


Fire 


Male 


0:18 


0:23 


0:41 


Vayu 


Female 


0:24 


18:41 


19:05 


Vayu 


Female 


0:24 


0:41 


1:05 


Akasha 


Male 


0:30 


19:05 


19:35 


Akasha 


Male 


0:30 


1:05 


1:35 


Prithvi 


Male 


0:06 


19:35 


19:41 


Prithvi 


Male 


0:06 


1:35 


1:41 


Prithvi 


Male 


0:06 


19:41 


19:47 


Prithvi 


Male 


0:06 


1:41 


1:47 


Akasha 


Male 


0:30 


19:47 


20:17 


Akasha 


Male 


0:30 


1:47 


2:17 


Vayu 


Female 


0:24 


20:17 


20:41 


Vayu 


Female 


0:24 


2:17 


2:41 


Fire 


Male 


0:18 


20:41 


20:59 


Fire 


Male 


0:18 


2:41 


2:59 


Water 


Female 


0:12 


20:59 


21:11 


Water 


Female 


0:12 


2:59 


3:11 


Water 


Female 


0:12 


21:11 


21:23 


Water 


Female 


0:12 ' 


3:11 


3:23 


Fire 


Male 


0:18 


21:23 


21:41 


Fire 


Male 


0:18 


3:23 


3:41 


Vayu 


Female 


0:24 


21:41 


22:05 


Vayu 


Female 


0:24 


3:41 


4:05 


Akasha 


Male 


0:30 


22:05 


22:35 


Akasha 


Male 


0:30 


4:05 


4:35 


Prithvi 


Male 


0:06 


22:35 


22:41 


Prithvi 


Male 


0:06 


4:35 


4:41 


Prithvi 


Male 


0:06 


22:41 


22:47 


Prithvi 


Male 


0:06 


4:41 


4:47 


Akasha 


Male 


0:30 


22:47 


23:17 


Akasha 


Male 


0:30 


4:47 


5:17 


Vayu 


Female 


0:24 


23:17 


23:41 


Vayu 


Female 


0:24 


5:17 


5:41 


Fire 


Male 


0:18 


23:41 


23:59 


Fire 


Male 


0:18 


5:41 


5:59 


Water 


Female 


0:12 


23:59 


0:11 


Water 


Female 


0:12 


5:S9 


6:11 



The birth is 
above. 



of a male person which is indicated 



The duration of is 6, 12, 18, 24, 30 minutes. Thus if there 
is a mismatch between birth gender and elemental indication 
the rectification may have to be made between any of these 
ranges. However further divisions of Antara tatwa also suggested 
by distributing the major span of tatwa in the same ascending 
or descending order of the main tatwa and this span of major 
tatwa is to be distributed among other tatwa proportionately 
basing on their respective spans. This however may be 
experimented, if in case of mismatch of gender and the shorter 
time span correction is essential especially to ensure the 
correctness of micro divisional charts. 

Sub divisions are based on simple rule that is duration of 
tatwa is to be distributed to among the five tatwa proportionately 
as per their main duration. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 227 



This point is highlighted in this work while discussing about 
Birth time, Lagna calculations, and house divisions. 

The effects of tatwa: 

The one born in order sequence of tatwa will have gradual 
progress in all aspects of life. One born in reverse order sequence 
will experience hardships in progress. 

Earth element: Internal earth elements include head hair, 
body hair, nails, teeth, skin, flesh, sinews, bone, organs, intestinal 
material, It also indicates firmness, stability and solid matters 

Water element: Internal water elements include bile, 
phlegm, pus, blood, sweat, fat, tears, nasal mucus, urine, etc. 
It is emotional element, flow of thoughts, moving and flowing. 

Fire: Internal fire elements include those bodily mechanisms 
that produce physical warmth, aging, digestion, etc. Energetic 
enthusiastic, Vitality, force and authority 

Air element: Internal air element includes air associated 
with the pulmonary system and the intestinal system. It indicates 
intelligence, adjustability, search and distance travels 

Space element: Internal space element includes tpodily 
orifices such as the ears, nostrils, mouth, anus, etc. it indicates 
inner quest, though metaphysical will find interest in varied 
matters and are nature lovers. 

House division: 

While erecting the chart the author prefers unequal division 
of chart and mostly relates his argument similar to Professor 
Krishnamurti. Though he refers Sripathi paddati, his intention 
of using word "Cusp" establishes that the house division is to 
be based on unequal house system. However in his example 
chart he does no depict the cusps though he hints that a sign 
may contain more than one cusp which leads some sign lords 
losing their house lordships. 



228 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Shadbala: 

Not attaching qualitative effects of planets by their six fold 
strength, he recommends the quantitative effects by shadbala 
of planets. He describes shadbala in accordance with 
fundamentals in classical texts. However he indicates the typical 
results of some of the strengths of planets. For example, Kalabala 
gives good effects of matter relating to time, Chestabala prompts 
for movements, changes. Uccabala supports in all matters. 
Digbala will support command over others and Ayanabala in 
directional effects. Stanabala denotes Status. Application of this 
strength even extended to divisional chart. 

There is lengthy discussion about yoga like 
panchamahapurusha yoga adhi yoga etc., which are covered in 
classical texts, like Phaladeepika etc. 

Bhava Phala 

In this section the author has dealt in details some of his 
points that are logically convincing and hence I prefer to 
elaborate on this. I also offer my comments on points. 

1. A Bhava will thrive when it has the aspect of its own lord 
(The word aspect includes its position in a Bhava for Bhava 
analysis and when relates to planets it also includes 
conjunction). 

2. Aspects are considered from signs (not cusps) and the 
strength of such aspect is based on the longitude difference 
between the planets in aspect. 

3. All planets aspect 7 th sign from their position. Mars, Saturn 
Jupiter, and Nodes have special aspects. 4 th & 8 th , 3 rd and 
10 th and 5 th & 9 th respectively. 

4. Houses 3-6-8-12 are malefic places and planets here will 
not give good results. Planets in other houses give good 
results except 2 nd house which is neutral and the planet 
placed here also behave like neutral. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 229 

5. As a Lord of good house when a planet sits in another good 
house the effect is to be read two ways. 

a. The good effect of the house where a lord is posited is 
attributed to matters of his house lordships to be 
enjoyed by the Native as houses involved are reckoned 
from Lagna, 

b. The house posited by the lord if falls in 3-6-8-12 place 
reckoned from houses owned by him, then the bad 
effects of these houses may attribute to the houses 
owned by him. This bad effect should especially be 
considered to the relative of the native indicated by 
the Houses owned by the Lord 

6. A planet eclipsed by Sun and defeated in planetary war 
cannot give good results being in good houses and they 
tend to give worst results in bad houses except Saturn and 
Venus. 

7. House hemmed between malefics does not produce its good 
effects and therefore the planet sitting in that house will 
not get the good effects of the house. (In other words 
this house then falls under category of 3-6-8-12 and 
the nature of such bad quality to be assessed by the 
nature of malefic surrounding this house). Benefics 
in the place of Malefics the Bhava will thrive. 

8. Placed in junction of two Bhavas that is Bhava sandhi a 
Planet will will become ineffective in getting the significations 
of the two houses of Junction. Whereas as a lord and Karaka 
of certain houses and his natural Karakatwa results can be 
expected of him considering his qualitative 
modifications being in a sign and Bhava. 

9. Planets will be strong in exact cuspal point and at the two 
ends of Bhava it will have zero effect. In the intermediate 
position commencing from beginning point it yields 
progressive results and in the later part it will the 
results will be declining progressively. (This portion 



230 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

of the rule in practice is not always applicable as 
many horoscopes have shown contradictory results.) 

10. A Planet is effective in two ways: one by its natural 
qualitative dignity and the other by its functional dignities. 
Either of these qualities may become favorable or 
unfavorable depending upon the nature of the sign and the 
Bhava it represents. Both aspects are to be attributed to 
the results of the planet during its period. 

Following paragraph will be helpful to differentiate the 
functional and natural dignities of the planet. 

Natural Benefits: Jupiter, Mercury, Venus and Shukla 
Paksha Moon without any malefic conjunction. The author 
attributes benefic quality to Sun. 

Natural Malefics: Saturn, Mars, Rahu, Ketu and Krishna 
Paksha Moon 

Functional Benefits: Planets not owning houses 3-6-8- 
12. 

Functional Malefics: Planets owning houses 3-6-8-12. 

A Planet having dual lordship of houses each from the above 
acts both as functional benefic and malefic simultaneously and 
his natural signification is also to be taken into consideration. 

Natural benefic planets give their natural benefic effects 
when they are placed in benefic houses and malefic effects of 
their significations when placed in malefic houses except in 3 rd 
and 6 th house being upachaya houses where they give 
progressively good effects of their significations. 

A. Results of the Bhava posited or having an aspect to 
a Bhava 

1. Natural Benefic planets flourish the Bhava they occupy 
and aspect. In Benefic Bhava their natural signification 
will get enhanced and in 3 rd and 6 th Bhava progressively 
their natural significations will improve and in 8 and 
11 th Bhava their significations will have bad effect. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 231^ 

2. Natural Malefic planets decline the good effects of Bhava 
they occupy and aspect. Their natural significations get 
modified as said in the earlier Para. 

3. Natural Benefic Planet when exalted gives good effect 
of their Natural significations. 

4. Natural Malefic Planet when exalted gives bad effects 
of their Natural significations. 

5. Both Natural Benefic and Malefic when placed in their 
own house give good effects of their Natural 
significations. 

B. Results of the houses owned by Planet being in a 
Bhava 

1. Functional Benefic planet in Benefic Bhava: the houses 
owned by the Functional Benefic will thrive. 

2. Functional Benefic Planet in Malefic Bhava: the houses 
owned by the Functional Benefic will decline. 

3. Functional Malefic Planet in Benefic Bhava: the bad effects 
houses owned by the Functional Benefic will thrive. 

4. Functional Malefic Planet in Malefic Bhava: the bad effects 
of the houses owned by them will considerably reduce and 
even it may lead to'Vipareeta Yoga" sudden goodness may 
experience after a bad experiences. 

5. Functional Benefic Planets if exalted is good for the houses 
owned by them and if it is in their own house it is still good. 

6. Functional Malefic Planets if exalted bad for the houses 
owned by them. 

7. Both Functional Benefic and Malefic if placed in own house 
always flourish the houses owned by them. 

The Natural Karaka results and Functional house results 
are to be read together with their independent results. 



232 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



To predict diseases the Kalapurusha parts of the body in 
the zodiac indicates the external parts and the body parts 
denoted by the 12 Bhava indicate the internal part of the body. 
The diseases and the Body parts indicated by planets are also 
to be considered. 

However the scribe has prepared a table which will be useful 
in assessing the diseases. 



Jup 


Fat, Thighs, Liver Glycogen 
metabolism, Ears, Tongue 


When they are weak and 
especially when they are lords 


Ven 


Genital organs, Semen, Cheek, 
Face, Throat, Thyroid gland 


of 6, 8, 12 houses, they 
influence the other planet and 

houses and signs with diseases 


Mer 


Nerves, Brain, Skin, Chest, Naval, 
Gall bladder 


Moo 


Nose, trachea, lungs. Left eye, Mind, Kidneys, 
Urinary system, food tract, Water in the body. Menses 


If Weak 


Following planets will afflict sign, planet and houses with diseases 


Sat 


All motor parts of the Body, Joints, Anus, Rectum 


Sun 


Bones, Heart, Right eye, Belly, Head 


Mar 


Blood cells, Blood flow Teeth, Muscles, Marrow, Nose bridge, Male energy, 
menstrual system 


Rahu 


Aggravates ill effects of planets, sign and houses - aggressive in nature 


Ketu 


Blocks, stagnants ill energies causing growths it is captive in nature 


Aries 


Fire 


Chara 


Head, Brain, 
Face, Eyes 


house 


Timid, illness phobia, 
anxiety syndrome that 
affect health- Poor 
immune system 


Taurus 


Earth 


Sthira 


Vocal Cords, 
Thyroid Gland, 
Throat and Neck 


2 nd 
house 


Bipolar disorder, Psychic 
effects of childhood 
depression for ill health 


Gemini 


Air 


Ubhaya 


Nervous System, 
Brain Cells, Upper 
respiratory tract, 
Shoulders/Ear, 
Arms, Hands 


3 d 
house 


Dispirit and failure 
syndromes affect health 


Cancer 


Water 


Chara 


Chest, Breasts, 
Lungs, Respiratory 
tract 


4th 
house 


Emotions, frustration on 
Loss of assets, 
allegations affect health 


Leo 


Fire 


Sthira 


Heart, Ribs, Spinal 
Column, and Upper 

Belly 


5 th 
house 


Past birth demerits, 
Progeny-speculative- 
love and intellect failures 
cause ill health 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 



233 



Virgo 


Earth 


Ubhaya 


Digestive System, 
Intestines, Spleen, 
Waist, Pancreas 


6 th 
house 


Fear, enmity, stress, illicit 
Relation, debt and work 
stress cause ill health 


Libra 


Air 


Chara 


Kidneys, Skin, 
Lower Spine, 
sexual potency 


7th 
house 


Separation anxiety, 
conjugal loss, social 
de-link affect health 


Scorp 


Water 


Sthira 


Reproductive 
System, Sexual 
Organs, Scrotum, 
Pelvis, Excretory 
System Bowels 


8 th 
house 


Fear of death & inherited 
genetics, irreligious 
notions causing ill health 


Sagit 


Fire 


Ubhaya 


Hips, Liver, Sciatic 
Nerve, Thighs 


9 th 
house 


Misfortunes, stress of 
ritual restriction, 
parental concern, home 
sick affects health 


Capri 


Earth 


Chara 


Knees, Joints, 
Skeletal System 


10* 
house 


Anxiety Disorder due to 
Professional hazards, 
status dilemma, self 
undoing affect health 


Aqua 


Air 


Sthira 


Calves, Ankles, and 
Circulatory System 


11 th 
house 


Fear of loosing, stressed 
friendships, affect health 


Pisces 


Water 


Ubhaya 


Feet, Toes, 
Lymphatic System, 
Body Fat 


12* 
house 


Lack of sleep, sexual 
displeasure, fear factors 
results in bad health 


Chara rasis, the diseases are curable and lasts for quite some time, in Sthira is 
incurable, in Ubhaya, with remedial measures 



Planets in Bhavath Bhava: 

Reckoned from a Bhava counting same number of Bhava is 
called Bhavath Bhava. The author has given some good clue 
about the matters involved in Bhavath Bhava when the lord 
shifts to Bhavath Bhava. 

2 nd lord in 2 nd to 2 nd House: Wealth through investments. 

3 rd Lord in 3 rd to 3 rd House - Younger step siblings or adopted 
siblings. 

4 th Lord in 4 th to 4 th House - Double happiness, progress in 
higher education, step mother, increased comforts. 

5 th Lord in 5 th to 5 th House - Adopted children, Wisdom 
through knowledge 



234 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

6 th Lord in 6 th to 6 th House - Multiplicity of enmity, one 
disease leading to other disease, incurring debt after debt 

7 th Lord in 7 th to 7 th House - Multiplicity of marital relations 
or partnerships 

8 th Lord in 8 th to 8 th House - Death causing another death- 
distress after distress 

9 th Lord in 9 th to 9 th House - Repeated fortune, step father 
(adopted as father or due to 2 nd marrage to mother) 

10 th Lord in 10 th to 10 th House - Multiplicity of profession 

11 th Lord in 11 th to 11 th House - Multiple gains 

12 th Lord in 12 th to 12 th House - Over spending, extra marital 
relations, repeated displacements. 

These are some of the points effective in Bhava Phala 
readings. 

We take an example and read the Bhava Phala according 
to above rules. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 



235 



Example: 



360 


■a 


KE- 

io°o5 T ir 


KE-SA 


JU(R) 

05 o 56'ir SU-ME 


60 


21°AT 


House 1 


24°53' 


House 2 


22°2S" 


House 3 


17°43' 


House 4 


JUP 


MER-SUN 


MAR 


VEN-MER 


VEN 


MOO-VEN 


MER 


RAH-5UN 


330 





30 


30 60 


90 


330 


Male born on 

22-10-1976 at 

17:00 hrs. 

Hyderabad 


90 


1S°21' 


House 12 


14°18' 


House 5 


SAT 


RAH-VEN 


MOO 


5AT-RAH 


300 


SA- ME-SU 
22W41" 1M 


300 


120 


14°18* 


House 11 


15°21' 


House 6 


5AT 


MOO-JUP 


SUN VEN-VEN 


270 


150 


270 






150 


17*43' 


House 10 


22°25' 


House 9 


24°53' 


House 8 


21°47' 


House 7 


JUP 


VEN-MAR 


MAR 


MER-MOO 


VEN 


JUP-MER 


MER 


MOO-VEN 


240 


VE- 

08°36 , 21" 

240 


Sa-Ve 
210 


MA-15°46'09"RA-VE 
RA-lO^yil" RA-JU 
5U-05°39'32 11 MA-MO 

210 180 


ME-25 o 07'08" MA-RA 
Mo-25°13 , 44" MA-RA 

180 



Note: Houses & Pfanets indicate degrees and their star lord and sub 
lord like in K.P. 



236 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Natal Chart 


Date: 


22-Oct-76 


Time: 


17:00:36 


Time Zone - . 


5:30:00 (East of GMT) 


Place: 


78 E 28' 00", 17 N 23' 00" 


Hyderabad, India 


Tithi: 


Amavasya (Ra) (86.98% left) 


Vedic Weekday 


Friday (Ve) 


Nakshatra 


Chitra (Ma) (85.09% left) 


Yoga: 


Vishkambha (Sa) (91.90% left) 


Karana: 


Chatushpada (Me) (73.95% left) 


Sunrise 


6:11:12 


Sunset: 


17:49:51 


Ayanamsa: 


23-26-11.45 



Functional Benefic Planets for this horoscope: 

Jupiter Lord of 1 and 10 is posited in 2 nd House according 
to House division. 

Jupiter as Functional benefic being in good Bhava, the native 
has good professional career and earns money. Due to 1 st lord 
being in 2 nd he spends lot on family. As karaka being in good 
Bhava, he has cultivated good habits and nobility. Being in Venus 
sign, he however has luxurious desires. We need to take the 
enmity factor of Venus to Jupiter who is also in mutual 7 th aspect 
besides being in Scorpio sign positioned in 8 th house in bhava. 
Therefore he will not be benefited from the inherited property 
of father. Apart from this he will also overcome certain bad 
habits and hurdles in life. Jupiter aspects 7 th house and 11 th 
house he will get married to a working girl. 

Mars Lord of 2 nd and 9 is posited in 7 th house according to 
House division. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 237 



Being lord of 2 nd in 7 th house he will gain from in-laws 
house. Being lord of fortune in 7 th house he will have foreign 
journeys. Considering 7 th house of native as Lagna to his wife, 
Mars becomes 3 rd and 8 th lord which is not good for the wife 
which may cause health and difficulties to her in life. 

Mercury Lord of 4 th and 7 th posited in 7 th House according 
to house division. 

Mercury not only 4 th lord representing education, but also 
karaka for education being in 7^ own house and exalted and 
Bhavath Bhava rule 4 th lord is 4 th from his house will give him 
education after education being the sign of commerce he will 
thrive in that line. 4 th lord is also associated with Moon 5 th lord 
though weak, supports him in changing education. This is also 
having aspect of Jupiter not only being Lagna lord but also 
being 10 th lord; hence he will continue education relating to his 
profession during his professional career. 7 th Lord being in 7 th 
house, he will have professional related foreign travel and his 
wife will be self-centered. 

Moon lord of 5 th house posited in 7 th House according to 
house division 

5 th lord in 7 th house, which Is house of wisdom, is good but 
for progeny matter 5 th lord is 3 rd from his own house and he is 
with 12 th lord to 5 th house. He will face problems in progeny 
matters. 

Functional Malefic 

Sun lord of 6 th house posited in 7 th house according to 
house division 

The 6 th effect is reduced but the 7 th house gets the effect of 
12 th house to it. Therefore, often there will be temporary 
separations from wife. 6 th lord being in in conjunction with Rahu 
and Mars, the native may encounter health problems which 
may relate to Rahu Mars Sun and also inner parts of 6 th house, 
7 th house and 8 th house. 



238 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Venus lord of 3 rd and 8 th in 8 th house is good for longevity. 
But he will face difficulties with respect to siblings, Karaka going 
to 8 th house will again indicating problems to or with marital 
life. 

Saturn lord of 11 th and 12 th house posited in 5* house 
according to house division 

Saturn as Longevity karaka being in a good house, good 
longevity can be expected. As 11 th and 12 th Lord being in a 
good house his income and expenditure are under control. As 
12 th lord and Saturn being in 5 th house, the progeny matter 
may be delayed but Saturn having aspect to his own house 
delayed progeny is indicated. Saturn also aspect 7 th house and 
2 nd house he gains from foreign trips and gain from spouse, 

Rahu posited in Libra represents 8 th house but positioned 
in 7 th house according to house division. This is also one of the 
reasons which indicate health problems to spouse. It indicates 
difficulties to the native through spouse. 

Ketu posited in Aries represents 2 nd house but positioned in 
1 st house according to house division. 

Despite the fact that finance is good, the self-efforts are 
needed to get the desired income. Ketu causes body pains being 
in 1 st house. Ketu aspect 6 th house 10 th house there will be 
health problems caused due to tensions at work. 

4 th lord is in 4 th to 4 th : Education + Education. He did 
attempt multiple education. 

Application of Tithi and Yoga 

The computations for these two components are explained 
in the earlier paragraphs. 

First part of it is Tithi and its related Rasis as Zero rasis to 
be noted. 

In the above example chart the person is born on: 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 



239 





Date: 


22-Oct-76 


Time: 


17:00:36 


Time Zone: 


5:30:00 (East of GMT) 


Place: 


78 E 28' 00", 17 N 23' 00" 


Hyderabad, India 


Tithi: 


Amavasya (Ra) (86.98% left) 


Vedic Weekday 


Friday (Ve) 


Nakshatra 


Chitra (Ma) (85.09% left) 


Yoga: 


Vishkambha (Sa) (91.90% left) 


Karana: 


Chatushpada (Me) (73.95% left) 


Sunrise 


6:11:12 


Sunset: 


17:49:51 


Ayanamsa: 


23-26-11.45 



The person is born on Amavasya therefore, there are no 
Dagdha rasis. No Bhava becomes zero. 

Yogi, Duplicate yogi and Avayogi to be identified for the 
chart 



Sun's Longitude 


185:45:00 




Moon's Longitude 


175:19:00 




total 


361:04:00 




Pushya 


93:20:00 




total 


454:24:00 




-360 


360:00:00 




total 


94:24:00 


Yogi Planet 


Saturn 


Sign 


Cancer 


Duplicate Yogi-Lord 


MOO 



Yogi Planet in this example chart is Saturn 



240 


Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 


According to grouping of Yoga and Avayoga planet 




Yoga Planets 






VEN MAR SAT 






Avayoga -Enemy Planets 






JUP KET MOO 





Duplicate Yogi is Moon 

Rules for assessment: 

Positive Signs: Own house 

Negative Signs: Zero Signs or Debilitated sign. 

Positive Bhava: 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 11 

Negative Bhava: 3-6-8-12 

Positive Lords: Lords of Positive Bhava (not being zero 
Rasi) Birth Yogi and Duplicate Yogi 

Negative Lords: Lords of 3-6-8-12, Lords of Zero Rasi 
and Birth Avayogi 

Positive stars: Stars of Positive Planets. 

Negative Stars: Stars of Negative Planets 

Summing up I arrive at 



FORMULA GIST 




Positive 


Negative 


Signs 


Own Sign 


Dagdha Rasi, 
Debilitated Sign 


Houses 


Kendra, Kona 

2 nd & 11 th 


3-6-8-12 Houses 


Lords 


Lords of above Sign & 
houses and Yogi group 
planets, duplicate Yogi 


Lords of above Sign 

& houses Avayogi 

group planets 


Stars 


Stars of above lords 


Stars of above Lords 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 



241 



HOW PLANETS GIVE RESULTS 


Positive 
PLANETS 


In above Sign, Houses 
and Stars give 

POSITIVE OR 
GOOD RESULTS 


In above Sign, Houses 
and Stars give 

NEGATIVE OR 
BAD RESULTS 


Negative 
PLANETS 


In above Sign, Houses 
and Stars give 

NEGATIVE OR 
BAD RESULTS 


In above Sign, Houses 
and Stars give 

POSITIVE OR 
GOOD RESULTS 



Applying this formula to the example horoscope, we get 
the following Positive Planets and Negative Planets. 



Planet 


Yoga 
Status 


LORD 
OF 


IN 


IN STAR 
OF 


IN 
SIGN 


Sign 
quality 


Aspect 


MOO 


Ava/ 
Dup 
Yogi 


5- 

( Positive) 


7- 
Positive 

house 


Chftta-Mars- 
Positive Yogi 
group 


KANYA^ 
MER 


Positive 
sign 


1 


MAR 


Yogi 
group 


2,9- 

( Positive) 


7- 

Positive 
house 


Swati-Rah- 
Negative 
8 th Sign Rah 


TULA- 
VEN 


Positive 

sign 


11, 2, 3 


MER 


Positive 

lord 


4,7- 

(Positive) 


7- 

Positive 
house 


Chitta-Mars- 
Positive Yogi 

group 


KANYA- 

MER 


Positive 
sign 


1 


JUP 


Avayogi 

group 


1,10- 
(Positive) 


2- 

Positive 
house 


Krittika-Sun- 
Negative 
Lord star 


VRISH- 

VEN 


Positive 

sign 


7,9,11 


KET 


Avayogi 

group 


2- 

(Positive) 


1- 

Posltive 
house 


Aswini-Ket- 
Positive 
Own star 


MESHA 
MAR 


Positive 
sign 


10, 6 


SUN 


Negative 

lord 


6- 

( Negative) 


7- 

Positive 
house 


Chitta -Mars- 
Positive 
Yogi group 


TULA- 

VEN 


(Deb) 
Negative 


2 


RAH 


Negative 
lord 


8- 
(Negative) 


7- 

Positive 

house 


Swati-Rah- 

Positive- 
Own star 


TULA- 

VEN 


Positive 

sign 


12,4 


VEN 


Yogi 
group 


3,8- 

( Negative) 


8- 

Negative 
house 


Anurada-Sat- 
Positive 
yogi star 


VRIS- 
-HCH- 
MAR 


Positive 

sign 


3 


SAT 


Yogi 


11, 12- 
( Negative) 


5- 

Positive 

house 


Aslesha-Mer- 
Positive 
planet star 


KARKA 
MOO 


Positive 
sign 


7, 11, 2 



242 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Modifications to be applied to rules: 

1. A planet will retain its yoga status even if it gets negative 
status by other dignities. 

2. Yogi planets or the planets in their stars will give positive 
results. Similarly Avayoga planets or the planets in their 
stars will give negative results. 

3. Yoga planet give good results in Positive Rasi, Bhava or 
star and Avayoga planets gives good results in Negative 
Rasi, Bhava or star. 

4. Zero Rasis are good when falls as 6 th , 8 th , 12 th houses. 

5. Positive planets including yoga planets give considerable 
good results even if they are in negative dignities if they 
are retrograde. This condition is not good for negative 
planets. 

6. Nodes to be treated as natural negative planets. They need 
to be in negative dignities for good results. 

7. In dual lordship consider the Positive and negative house 
lordship simultaneously. 

8. Planets in mutual aspect will share significations and in 
such circumstances they may exchange results. 

9. Planet will get the significations of a planet and house it 
aspects 

10. Avayogi in an enemy star ( as per the table above) will give 
good results and inter changing star position of Yogi and 
duplicate yogi gives good results. 

With this we shall analyze the example horoscope: 

1. Moon-Avayogi but also duplicate yogi in the Star of yogi 
group Mars. Therefore being 5 th a positive house lord Placed 
in a Positive house and being in a Yogi group star and 
posited in positive sign aspects Lagna. It is linked to Saturn's, 
aspect therefore, houses 11, 12, 5 th house are also linked 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 243 



to him with a malefic effect of Saturn and also 12 th house. 
But Saturn is a Yogi planet. Therefore all results of Moon 
should be good for this Native. 

(Note: Native yet to get Moon Dasha but in Jupiter Dashd 
Moon bhukti is shortly expected and verily the native is 
planning for progeny during that period) 

2. Mars- Yogi Group is lord of positive houses, 2 nd and 9 th by 
placement also Mars is in Positive 7 th house, He is also in 
positive sign. But he is in the Rahu star that represents 8 th 
sign from Lagna but situated in 7 th house. He is also linked 
to 3 rd house by his 8 th aspect. These two are negative points. 
Mars is positive for 2 nd , 9 th , 7 th , 11 th house matters but 
creates problems relating to 3 rd and 8 th maters. 

(Note: Native was born in Mars Dasha and it lasted till Oct 
1982 that is up to his & h year of age. He had very good 
appetite and was given all comforts but due to operation of 
3 rd and 8 th house he had to be separated from working 
parent whole day being in a crutch all these years and he 
had constipation problem during that period.) 

3. Mercury is lord of positive houses 4 th and 7 th by placement 
he is not only in 7 th a positive house lord but also in his own 
exalted house which is also a positive sign. He is also in the 
star of Yogi Group Mars. All round positive effects are 
expected from this planet. Mercury is linked Lagna by aspect 
and through Saturn it is linked to 11, 12, 5 th and by Moon it 
is linked to 5 th again. 

(Note: Native is yet to get this Dasha, but in Jupiter Dasha 
he was running Mercury Bhukti from June 2005 to 
September 2007. During this period he had a few foreign 
assignments. He had completed higher professional course 
sponsored by his employer due to the fact that 4 th lord is in 
4 th to 4 th house. He had good promotional career. During 
this period he got married). 

4. Jupiter retrograde is Avayogi in the star of negative house 
lord and is the lord in group of of two positive houses 1 st 



244 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



and 10 th house by placement he is in 2 nd house. By sign 
position it is in 3 rd which is little negative point. He is in the 
star of 6 th lord Sun who also indicated as enemy in the 
yoga table. Therefore it should be good. He is linked to 4 th , 
7 th 5 th and 3 and 8 th lord by aspect. He links to 7* 1 house 8 th 
house and 11 th house by aspect. Therefore as far as his 
professional matters are concerned Jupiter should give good 
results. Though first house matters are taken care by him 
yet being linked to 6 th and 8 th he will cause health trouble. 
He is also linking 3 rd house which is loss house to 4 th and 
he is also linking karaka for mother Moon (weak) (4 th house) 
and then linking house of distress that is 8 th . He should 
cause disturbance in the relational matter of 4 th house. Being 
retrograde though he is strong for his positive houses and 
karaka signification yet he is equally bad for health and 
other matters. 

(Note: in October 2000, Jupiter in his Dasha and 
Bhukti commenced positive results by giving him 
career start. However his negative effects were also 
felt during his Bhukti period commencing from 
October 2000 to November 2002 during which 
period he gave negative effect of 4 th house as he 
signifies 3 rd house and linking weak Moon karaka 
for mother. He lost his mother within 10 days of his 
getting the new job. 10 th house is Maraka for 4 th 
house. 3 rd house is 12 th house to 4 th house and 5 th 
house is maraka for 4 th house mother which is linked 
through Saturn aspect to 4 th lord and 4 th karaka. 11 th 
house is 8 th house to 4 th house which is again linked 
to 4 th house and 4 th lord and karaka through Saturn. 
He lost his mother. During the same period he 
suffered from lungs problem and was hospitalized.) 

(Imp: It could be possible that a retrograde planet 
when gets Avayoga Saturn might loose that status 
and gives good results & also gives bad results by 
his positional dignity.) 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 245 



5. Ketu Avayogi and natural negative planet represents a 
positive house 2 nd and by position again goes to 1 st house. 
He is in his own star and by all means he is in positive 
place. By aspect he links to 6 th and 10 th house. His bhukti 
period commenced from September 2007 ended during 
August 2008. Though he did not do any harm to 10 th house 
matter and 2 nd house matter, his 6 th house effects were 
severely felt by the native during this period having 
hardships and enmity factors at work place causing tensions 
and worry. He had also suffered health problems during 
this period. 

6. Sun being a negative lord of 6 th house posited in a positive 
house 7 th is not good for 7 th house matters. He is in the star 
of Mars who is a positive planet being in yoga group. This 
also helps 6 th matter. Being in debilitated sign being negative 
planet he becomes good. Sun aspects 2 nd house. 

(Note during Jupiter Dash a Sun bhukti commenced 
on April 2011. This Sun has given the native a good 
financial jump in a new job. Health of the native is 
excellent. - Job status is good. Though bad to 7 th 
house the Sun did not do much harm to 7 th house 
except that the native's wife left the job). 

Dasha system with Distinctive Bhukti Readings 

This is the most important chapter in any astrological works 
which deals with the timing of an event. There are number of 
Dasha systems in traditional astrological classical works. However 
most universally accepted and adopted system is Vimshottari 
Dasha system. Author of this work naturally deals with this 
system. With a logical argument he puts forth his novel system. 
Nine planets assigned to each star in 3 groups of Nakshatra 
assigned in the three zones measuring 120 degrees each which 
covers 12 signs, 27 Nakshatra and 360 degrees from as Dasha 
sequence commencing from the lord of assigned to the star 
falling in the longitude of Moon at birth. The Bhukti and further 
Antar dashas are computed by a rule of proportion based on 



246 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



the number of years allotted to each Dasha. In Dasha all the 
nine planets appear as Bhukti and in Bhukti again all the nine 
planets appear as Antara. Therefore it is quite natural that all 
the 9 planets will appear repeatedly in all Dasha, Bhukti and 
Antara. Whatever the methods adopted to derive the 
significations of the planets ultimately the significations remain 
same with changing sequence of Antar Dasha which reckons 
with the beginning Dasha or Bhukti planet. The author puts this 
argument and presents his novel method in analyzing Bhukti 




HIGHLIGHT OF 
THIS WORK 



m PROGRESSIVE STAR DASHA 



T~". 






BHUKTI -WITH STARTER 



mmmmmm mmmmmm 



BHUKTI - RULER 



-•-!■•■•■■-■■:•-■■..'•• ■>■ •••••■• 



Progressive 
Dasha is the 

Nakshatra 
counted from 

birth Moon 
progressively 
Wl the Star of 

the present 

Dasha Lord 



periods. 

However the Dasha analysis is to be based on the Positive 
and Negative dignities of the planets as earlier discussed. 

For Bhukti the present unique system is to be used to identify 
the Starter planet and Ruler planet to each bhukti. 

Components involved in this method 

1. Instead of Birth Moon star, the current Dasha lord falling 
first after Moon Birth star will be taken as birth star. 

2. Having used Tithi Nakshatra and Yoga, now the week day 
of birth is considered for this purpose 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 1 



247 



3. Sun is the Atma karaka, and Moon is the Manah karaka. 

The luminaries are two faces of experiences in life. The 
computation involves Sun's star Krittika 



mmimmmmmmmmmmmmm 



Born on 



Friday, 26- 10- 1976: 17 Hr$. Hyd- Male 

Birth Yok* * Saturn Duplicate yogi • Moon - Avayogi also Moon I 



As 



Ke 



(J«) 



turn 



*** 






*i«— ^p"-^ ■!.«.>,.,«, 



AL 



Ktl 



Jfesr 



— "*» 



Sa 



""» gl^fV 



Oa^aft f fom PPt^rgssed 6ir^ satr 



Marc 



Rjh: 



J«t 



Sa!; 



M£iC 



Kf: 



Vea: 



Sun; 



Moom 



1C/25/1W5 10/2tflS8 



10/B/19S2 UftttOtt 



M/25/20K v $25/2016 



10^25/2016 



10/26/2035 



10/26/2CJ5 



10/23/2052 



10/25/2052 WMfttt 



K/2S/2059 munm 



10/26/207! ItfXfrft 



10/26/2083 1#2$0S 



DASHA WITH 



CWttt 



Swtfl 



VI SAKHA 



Anurvtfs 



Jmfta 



Moota 



Ms*** 



U.4*fwcte 



Sfcrvwant 



PROGRESSED STAR 



RAH 



JW 



SA» 



KIT 



VfN 



um 



MOO 



1$25W7$ 



10#&t&82 



IGtfStfOOO 



10#V2O*6 



103&2O35 



10#5/2052 



10£#20$9 



10OT2079 



10tf6#0*5 



to 



to 



10 



to 



to 



to 



to 



to 



to 



1QOTt982 



t0O5£000 



10#&20t$ 



1OW20& 



< 



10#5£052 



t#2&2059 



10260079 



10£$£085 



10tf&2095 



CUMiftTQASMA 



In the example horoscope we shall see these three points. 

The current Dasha star lord is Visakha. The day of birth is 
Friday the 6 th day counted from Sunday. The Sun star remains 
always Krittika for computation of any bhukti. 



To find the starter for a Bhukti 

1. Count from Krittika the Star of Sun to the Bhukti star lord in 
the order of Dasha (which naturally is) and double the 
counted number. 

2. Count from the current Dasha star lord (i.e., current Dasha 
lord) to the Bhukti Lord in the same Dasha order and note 



248 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



the number 

3. Count from Sunday till the birth week day and note the 

number. 

4. Add the total and divide by nine in a manner that the 
reminder does not exceed 9. 

5. Count from Sun this reminder number in the Dasha order 
and arrive at the planet. This planet is STARTER for bhukti. 

To find the Ruler for a Bhukti 

1. Count from from Bhukti lord to star lord of Bhukti in 
Dasha sequence 

2. Count the same number derived in above from starter 
in Dasha sequence and that Planet is Ruler 

For the example chart I have worked out the Starter and 
Ruler for all the Bhukti in guru Dasha which is in the table 
format involving all the above rules. It is easier to understand 



slno 

OF 
OASHA 


GURU OASHA- BHtfKTi 
PLANETS 




COUNT FROM 

PIVOTAL! 

SUNSTARMARS 

TOBHUKTiSTAR 

tORDNDASHA 

SEQUENCE 


Gouste 

THE 
FIGURE 

EA} 


COUNT FROM 


FRffiAY 

mm 

WEEK 
DAY 
fC) 


TOTAL 

(AH3) 

♦fC) 


OTOE 
8Y9 


COUNT THS 
FROM 
OASHA 
SEQUENCE 
FROM SUN 
IS STARTER 


CGUHTBHUKTItORG 

TO STAR LORD OF 

BHUKTlft OASHA 

SEQUENCE AND 

THEN EQUAL 

NUMBER INCREASE 

STARTER 


RULER 


fiHUKtt 
LORDS 


STARS 


emKTt 

STAR 
LORD 


PIVOTAL 1* MOO 

STARVSSAKHAJUP 

TO&HUKTISTAR 

LORD IN OASHA 

ORDER 

m 


1 


'^JUP / 


Kfiftto 


SUN 


FROM WAR 

TO SUN 


8 | 


16 


AJPTOSL^ 


6 


e 


28 


I 


sun 


JUPTOSW6*SO 

6THTOSUN 


SAT 


2 


SAT 


Asiesna 


MER 


FROM MAR 
TOMER 


* 


10 


JUP TOMER 


3 


8 


n 


1 


SO* 


SATTOMER-2SO 
2NOT05UN 


MOO 


3 


«£R 


<$m 


MAR 


FROM MAR 
TO W« 


t 


2 


JUPTOM/W 


S 


6 


16 


1 


WER 


MERTOMAR-650 

6THTOMER 


MAR 


4 


KET 


X 

Aswra \ 


KET 


FROM MAR 
TO KET 


6 


\l 


JUPTQKET 


4 


8 


22 


4 


RAH 


KET TO KET 1 1ST 

FROM RAH 


rah 


5 


VEN 


Afltf&fc 


SAT 


FROM MAR 
TO SAT 


5 


1© 


^P TO SAT 


a. 


6 


ifl 





SUN 


VENTOSAT.7SO 
7THTOSW 


MER 


« 


SUN 


ChHt* 


MARS 

from this 


FROHKAR 

fe>T08HUKTI 

STAftLO© 


FROMUtft 

to mar 


1 


2 


JUPTOMAR 


e 


6 


IS 


7 


MER 


5UNT0HAR-4S0 1 

3R0TO!» 


VEN 


7 


MOO 


Vittkh4(Da 


JUPJTER 
count 


' FSOIUttP 
tfPTOSHUKTi 
STAftlORD 


FROM MAR 
TOJUP 


3 


§ 


JUPTOW 


i 


6 


n 


■ 
4 


RAH 


MOOTOJUMSO 
4THTORAH 


MER 


8 




^ SwaS ; 


RAH 




martc 
rah 


2 


4 


JUPTORAH 


9 


6 


S9 ; 


1 


SO) 


MARTORAH-2SO i 
2N0TOSUK ! 


ISOO 


9 


RAH 


Svsi^ 


RAH 


ttftRTQ 
RAH 


2 


4 


,/UPTORAH 


9 


6 


19 1 


SUN 


RAH TO RAH \ SO 
1ST TO SUN 


SUN 


to 


Ugna 


Rerafc* 


HW 




MfiRTO 


5 


10 


JUP TOMER 


3 


§ 


19 


1 


SUN 


SAME AS STARTER 


SUN 



CO 

3s 

00 
Q> 
(/> 
Ct> 



£ 

Co 

CD 

3 



o 



CO 



250 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

the above rules in the table given below: 

The Ruler of Jupiter Bhukti Saturn as a ruler is yogi Planet; 
hence materially good results were felt during Jupiter Bhukti. 
However at relational matters it did not help him and he lost his 
mother due to Saturn linking to 4 th house and 4 th lord. 

In Saturn Bhukti Moon as ruler being both duplicate yogi 
and Avayogi, he did have mixed results during Saturn Bhukti. 
Materially good but health disturbed. 

In Mercury Bhukti Mars being ruler who is yogi planet linking 
to 7 th , 2 nd and 9 th gave him marriage and foreign trips. 

In Ketu Bhukti Rahu is ruler being a negative planet created 
problems in job and health. 

In Venus Bhukti ruler being Mercury, the bad effects of 8 th 
and 3 rd house is considerably reduced but no significant good 
happened. 

In current Sun Bhukti ruler Venus being in Yogi Star has 
boosted the career with financial increments. 

However, though this exercise is little lengthy yet there is 
some logic convincingly working behind it. The negative and 
positive effects of planets are convincing. More application and 
research on this can lead to precise structured approach. 

The author has discussed a few more points with regard to 
Dasha readings which are essential for further research and 
study. He has also discussed about use of divisional chart for 
predictive purposes. To conclude this subject the scribe would 
like to endorse the use of divisional chart to assess the strength 
of the planet to give its karaka effect in relation to matters 
assigned to D charts. 

This is a tribute to the legendary author Sri H S Seshadri 
Iyer 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 251 



STELLAR BASED NAADI SYSTEM - METHOD-2 

The stars and its related computations are the basis which 
differentiates the system of prediction between conventional 
and Naadi Astrology. This is evident from the earlier chapters 
wherein the diversified star level computations were introduced 
by different methods accredited with the Naadi title. There is 
no specific different subject as Naadi Astrology, it is only the 
deviated divisional effects either star based or sign based 
incorporated in the mainstream astrology entitled as Naadi 
system. The only exception is the miraculous mantra naadi and 
the collection of palm leaf horoscopes finding its origin in South 
and North India which are standalone system in Naadi astrology. 
However a few ancient scholars having access to some of the 
great works of seers have culminated the vital minute divisional 
effects and established the new path of prediction as Naadi 
system which deviated from gross level conventional approach. 
Some of the great works of seers are lying in libraries in different 
parts of the country. A few traditional family/institutions in India 
and abroad believed to have some of the old scriptures handed 
down from ancestors. In the recent centuries modern scholars 
in astrology who toiled to get hold some of these works and re- 
framed these computational methods with their expressive logic 
and naturally related it to either Naadi or new discoveries. 
Whatever the name they assign to their modified predictive 
principles, ultimately all these principles should fit in to delineate 
from the Signs, Houses, Planets and Stars being the pillars of 
main stream astrology. 

Late Sri R Gopalakrishna Row and Sri N V Raghava Charry 
worked simultaneously on stellar system of astrology. They were 
guided by a scholar in Budha Naadi astrology. Sri R Gopalakrishna 
row published three volumes of stellar astrology. Later on Sri 
N.V. Raghava Charry published the Practical Stellar Astrology 
book claiming to be original research work. Though there are 
minute differences in certain fundamental attributes in both the 



252 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

works the main theme of the system is based on star level 
prediction. The Dasha as in traditional astrology is based on the 
moon position in a star at the time of birth. These stars are 
allotted planets to form an order for timing the event. Why a 
particular planetary order is selected for Dasha is well explained 
in my Naadi book titled as Prashna Hora. The entire scheme of 
astrology is directly linked to astronomical order. However for 
easy reference the 9 stars falling in the 120 degrees zone of 
zodiac are considered in order and the planets commencing 
from Ketu, Venus, Sun, Moon, Mars, Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn, 
Mercury are allotted to the stars and the same order of planets 
repeated for the next two zones of stars. Timing the events 
being the crucial part in astrology, these planets as Dasha lords 
and their fractional time indicators as sub periods lords are 
reoriented with their planetary lordships and positions and the 
progressive prediction parts are framed in rules. We have seen 
in earlier chapters how the star level significations are being 
used in different methods. In this system the stars are used in 
relation to Dasha planets and their disposition in the chart as 
lords of different houses are studied for which several sets of 
principles were framed by these two legends. This is the 
beginning part and the same work with modified concept further 
developed into Krisnamurti paddhati by Professor K.S. 
Krisnamurti which is the last chapter in this work. 

Though combined efforts were put in for this system of 
astrology, independently two works originated from the two 
authors Sri R Goplakrishna Row and Sri N V Raghava Chary. 
Both were colleagues and friends having interest in astrology. 
Certain common features in their horoscope linking to sign Meena 
(Pisces) both have their pen name as Meena. Earlier book was 
published by Sri. R. G Row in three parts. In 1995 the modified 
version of the practical stellar astrology written by Sri N V 
Raghava Chary (Meena- 2) was published. Both the works 
advocate same principles which are based on stellar system. 
Using selected information from these works of both the authors 
the scribe presents an applicable module with explanatory notes 
and additional information from other matching works. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 



253 



Useful Fundamentals: 

Normally in Astrological books more than the main points 
fundamentals are elaborated/ To avoid repetition the scribe 
restricts to give only essential fundamentals relating to this 
particular system. 

Normally Sun being attributed with the powers of Trimurti, 
Brahma, Vishnu, Maheshwara, in some texts the Sun is attributed 
with Satvik Guna. Being reflector of the Moon it is also given 
the same tatwa. Jupiter being the noblest character again it is 
also given the same Satvik tatwa, Ketu is being a moksha karaka 
for him also Satvik Guna is attributed. Mercury being the 
intellectual planet and Venus being the pleasurable planets, both 
are given Rajasic Guna. Rest of the planets that is Saturn, Mars, 
and Rahu are given Tamasic Guna. The Guna itself is transitory 
nature and changes from one Guna to another Therefore no 
planet can be attributed with a fixed Guna. The later author 
maintains this in his own style. 

In this work The Stars and planets were allotted Guna as 
follows: 



SATVIK STARS & PLANET 


Punarvasu 


Visakha 


P.Bhadra 


JUPITER 


Aslesha 


Jyeshta 


Revathi 


MERCURY 



RAJASIC STARS AND PLANET 


Krittika 


Uttara 


U.Ashada 


SUN 


Rohini 


Hasta 


Shravana 


MOON 


Bharani 


Pubba 


P.Ashada 


VENUS 



TAMASIC STARS AND PLANET 


Aswini 


Makha 


Moola 


KETU 


Aridra 


Swati 


Satabisa 


RAHU 


Mrigasira 


Chitta 


Dhanishta 


MARS 


Pushya 


Anurada 


U.Bhadra 


SATURN 



254 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Note; Many astrological works have different 
attribution of gunas to planets. Each author follows 
certain authenticated work suitable to him and adopts 
it throughout his work. Some intellectual authors use 
their gifted logical approach and modify them to testify 
the application of rules. Readers distinctively use the 
rules restricting their application only to the particular 
method being advocated by author. When the 
fundamentals are mixed up with different systems, the 
structure will get disturbed and we may often face 
failures which normally we designate it to the authors. 

The author has given simple signification of gunas. The 
scribe elaborated which is useful to this particular system. 



Significations of Gunas 



Quality 


SATVIK 


RAJASIC 


TAMASIC 


Behavior 


Noble, 

Helpful, 

Tolerant, 

Selfless, 

Peaceful, 

Spiritual 


Materialistic, 

Passion, 

Greedy, 

Proud, 

Authority, 

Pleasure 

pursuits 


Lazy, Foolish, 
Haste, Cruel, 
Selfish, Narrow- 
mind, 

Dependent, 
Dull, 
Melancholic 


Activity 


Religious, 
Peaceful, 
Helpful 


Social, Political, 
External and 
Entertainment 


Irreligious, 
Sadistic, Cruel 
Depressed 


Taste 


Vegan, 

Healthy, 

Water, 

Juices, 

Fatty 


Sweets, tasty, 
Luxury foods, 
Protein rich 


Fast food, 
Preserved, 
Packed, 
Stale, Spicy 


Smell 


Fragrant 


Cents, perfumes 


Smelly 


Touch 


Soothing 


Protective 


Irritant 


Visual 


Concerning 


Appealing 


Disturbing 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 


255 




Hear 


Melodious 


Enthusiastic 


Apathetic 


Profession 


Advisory 

Knowledge 

based 


Governing, 
Status Societal 
based 


Operative 
Alien & Effort 
based 



Sativik + Tamasic Negative nobility 

Sativk + Rajasic Noble+Pleasurable 

Satvik + Sativik Spiritual 

Rajasik + Tamasic Unethical Pleasurable 

Rajasik + Rajasic Authrotiative 

Tamasik + Tamasik Unethical Voilent 

The following portion of the infromation is one of the 
highlight of stellar system of astrology advocated by the two 
authors. 

The basic guna of the planets will undergo modifications 
when they are in a star. 

1. A Planet will acquire the Guna of the planet in whose star it 
is posited. 

2. Rajasic and Satvik planets should not get (being in the stars 
of) Tamasic nature. 

3. Tamasic planets getting Rajasic nature renders them to give 
bad results. 

4. Inter change between planets of Satvik & Rajasic will 
undergo modifications and will give mixxed effects. 

5. Further cosmical changes iri Gunas are also explained where 
in a planet will be imbided with three gunas and the 
predomience however is its star position. It is a matter of 
research and these details can be had from the authors 
original works. At present it is enough to know that a planet 
undergoes change in its guna by being in a star. 



256 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



The scribe taking into account the qualities of guna as given 
in the above table de-code the combined effect of Gunas as 
follows: 



SATVIK + Tamasic 


Disturb 


SATVIK + Rajasic 


Grow 


Satvik + SATVIK 


Sprit 


Rajasic + Tamasic 


Efforts 


Rajasic + Rajasic 


Authority 


Rajasic + Satvik 


Pleasure 


Tamasic + Tamasic 


Depress 


Tamasic + Rajasic 


Fiery 


Tamasic + Satvik 


Steady 



Stregnths & Weakness of Planets: 

The strength of the planet is based on the following: 



a. Natural order of strength 



b. Paksha Bala 



Exalted or towards exalted proportional Strength towards 
the direction 



d. In Moola trikona sign 



e. In own house 



f. In friends or enemy sign 



g. In Yoga karaka or own star 



h. In Friends star 



i. In Enemy star 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 



257 



Natural stregnth of planets 

RAHU /KETU (Strongest) 

SUN 

MOON 

VENUS 

JUPITER 

SATURN 

MARS 

MERCURY (Weakest) 



Paksha Bala 
















100% 


88 


75% 


63% 


50% 


38% 


25% 


12 




Poornima 


Pratami 


Dwitiya 


Tritiya 


Chatur 


Pancami 


Shasti 


Saptami 






Krishna Paksha 




12 


25 


38 1 50 1 63 1 75 


88 ' 


^^^^1 


Ashtami 


Navami 


Dashami j Ekadasi J Dwadasi | Triodasi 


Chaturdasi 


Efflpfflw^l 








^^^^^| 


88 


75% 63% 


50% 


38% 


25% 


12 


100% 

Poornima 




i Pratami 


Dwitiya | Tritiya 


Chatur 


Pancami 


Shasti 


Saptami 




Shukla Paksha 


12 


25 


38 


50 


63 


75 


88 


Ashtami 


Navami 


Dashami 


Ekadasi 


Dwadasi 


Triodasi 


Chaturdasi 



Jupiter, Venus, Mercury & Moon are strong when the ephoch 
is during Shukla paksha (including poornima) 

Saturn, Mars, Sun are strong when the ephoch is during 
Krishna Paksha (including amavasya) 

Rahu and Ketu are strong during Amavasya and Poornima 



258 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Exalted or towards exalted proportional strength 



SUN 


PiSCES 


AQUA 


CAPfti 


SAGITT 


SCORP 


«- 


WWES «*^ 


TAURUS 


GEMINI 


CANCER 


LEO 


VIRGO 


UBRA 


109 


*4% 


67% 


50% 


33% 


17% 


0% 


MOO 


Aftt£$ 


p»sas 


AQUA 


CAPftt 


SAGtTT 


«• 


T*AM»b 


GEMINI 


CANCER 


LEO 


VIRGO 


LIBRA 


SCORP 


too 


W% 


$7% 


50% 


33% 


17% 


0% 


MAR 


SAGtTT 


SCORPIO 


LIBRA 


VftGO 


LETO 


4r 


CAPNC«fr 


AQUA. 


pjsces 


ARIES 


TAURUS 


GEMINI 


CANCER 


too 


&4% 


£7% 


50% 


33% 


17% 


0% 


MER 


ieo 


CAN«ft 


GEMINI 


TAURUS 


AfttES 


«- 


VJRGO-^ 


UBRA 


SCORP 


SAGITT 


CAPRf 


AQUA 


PISCES 


100 


84% 


$7% 


50% 


33% 


17% 


0% 


JUP 


GSMlNt 


TAURUS 


ARies 


'■■■' * " 

PISCES 


AQUA 


«- 


CANCER"^ 


ieo 


vjftGO 


UBftA 


SCORP 


SAGITT 


CAPRI 


100 


54% 


67% 


50% 


33% 


17% 


0% 


VEN 


aqua 


CAPRI 


SAGITT 


SCORP 


US 


4r 


PISCES-^ 


ARIES 


TAURUS 


GEMINI 


CANCER 


UO 


VIRGO 


100 


S4% 


67% 


50% 


33% 


17% 


0% 


SAT 


VIRGO 


L£0 


CANCER 


GEMINI 


TAURUS 


«- 


USftA "& 


SCORP 


SAGITT 


CAPfti 


AQUA 


PISCES 


AftIK 


100 


84% 


67% 


[ $0% 


33% 


17% 


0% 


RAH 


PIKES 


AQUA 


CAPRIC 


SAGITT 


SCORPIO 


<T 


aries -^ 


TAURUS 


GEMINI 


CANCER 


IEO 


VftGO 


UWA 


1O0 


84% 


67% 


50% 


33% 


17% 


0% 


KET 


GEMINI 


TAURUS 


ARIES 


PJSCES 


AQUA 


<- 


CANCER-> 


uo 


VIRGO 


U8RA 


SCORP 


SAGITT 


CAPRi 


100 


84% 


67% 


50% 


33% 


17% 


0% 



The author ephatically states that Rahu and Ketu are similar 
to Saturn and Mars. Using the logic that they are always retrogrde 
in their motion, the scribe reversed the exaltation and deblitated 
positions of Saturn to Rahu and Mars to Ketu. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 



259 



Dig Bala (Directional stregnth) 


JUPITER 




12th 


11th 


10th 


9th 


8th 


<- 




ta^rva *^ 


2nd 


3rd 


4th 


5th 


6th 


7th house 


MERCURY 


100 


84% 


67% 


50% 


33% 


17% 


0% 


















VENUS 




3rd 


. 2nd 


1st 


12th 


11th 


«- 




4TH -^ 


5th 


6th 


7th 


5th 


9th 


ioth 


MOON 


100 


34% 


67% 


50% 


33% 


17% 


0% 


















SATURN 




6TH 


STH 


4TO 


3RD 


2ND 


<*• 


1 


7TH -^ 


8TH 


9TH 


10TH 


11TH 


12TH 


1ST 


RAH 


100 


84% 


67% 


50% 


33% 


17% 


0% 


















SUN 




9TH 


STH 


7TH 


6TH 


STH 


^» 


MAR 


10TH -^ 


11TB 


12TH 


1ST 


2ND 


3RD 


4TH 


KET 


100 


84% 


67% 


S0% 


33% 


17% 


0% 



Important aspect of this is to find the stregnth of these 
planets when they get associated with the above houses. For 
example Sun is in or associated, aspected or in the star of any 
planet having lordship of 10 th he gets dig bala. Similarly if he is 
assocaited with other lords he gets the percentage of stregnth 
according to the house mentioned above. 



Moola trikona and own sign: 

Exlatation sign of Sun is Aries, Moola trikona and own sign 
happens to be same Leo. 

Moon gets exalted in Taurus having its Moola trikona and 
his own house is in Cancer. 

Mars gets exalted in Capricorn and his Moola trikona is 
Aries own sign is Scorpio: 

For Ketu the exalted place is opposite of Mars that is Cancer 
and his own and moola trikona is Scorpio. 

Mercury gets exalted in his own Moolatrikona sign and his 
own house is Mithuna. 



260 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Exaltation sign is Cancer and Moola trikona of Jupiter is 
Sagittarius and own house is Meena. 

Venus is exalted in Pisces and his Moolatriona is Libra and 
own house is Taurus. 

Saturn is exalted in Libra and his Moolatrikona is Aquarius 
and own house is Capricorn. 

There is a variation which the scribe included here about 
the own signs which is the result of experiment on this system. 

Rahu is exalted in the opposite sign to Libra that is Aries 
and his Moolatrikona and own house is Capricorn. 

The authors have not prescribed any Moola trikona or own 
sign for Rahu and Ketu. Emphatically they claim that the Rahu 
equalling Saturn and Ketu equalling Mars. The other houses of 
Saturn and Mars where their Moola trikona does not fall is alloted 
to nodes as their moola trikona and own house. 

Friendly or enemy houses 

Planets in their friends' houses attain strength and in the 
enemy sign become weak. Similarly they attain strength or 
weakness by being in the stars of friends or enemies. 



Friendship and enemity of planets: 



PLANET 


FRIENDS 


SUN 
(Rajasic) 


JUPITER 
(Satwik) 


MOON 
(Rajasic) 


MARS 
(Tamasic) 


MOON 
(Rajasic) 


JUPITER 

(Satwik) 


SUN 
(Rajasic) 




MARS 
(Tamasic) 


JUPITER 
(Satwik) 


SUN 
(Rajasic) 




MERCURY 
(Satwik) 


VENUS 
(Rajasic) 







Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 



261 



JUPITER 
(Satwik) 



SUN 
(Rajasic) 



MOON 
(Rajasic) 



MARS 
(Tamasic) 



VENUS 
(Rajasic) 



MERCURY 
(Satwik) 



SATURN 
(Tamasic) 



RAHU 
(Tamasic) 



SATURN 
(Tamasic) 



MERCURY 
(Satwik) 



VENUS 
(Rajasic) 



RAHU 

(Tamasic) 



VENUS 
(Rajasic) 



KETU 
(Tamasic) 



JUPITER 
(Satwik) 



PLANET 


ENEMIES 


SUN 
(Rajasic) 


VENUS 
(Rajasic) 


SATURN 
(Tamasic) 


RAHU/KETU 
(Tamasic) 


MOON 
(Rajasic) 


SATURN 
(Tamasic) 


RAHU/KETU 
(Tamasic) 




MARS 
(Tamasic) 


MERCURY 
(Satwik) 






MERCURY 
(Satwik) 


MOON 
(Rajasic) 






JUPITER 
(Satwik) 


MERCURY 
(Satwik) 


VENUS 
(Rajasic) 




VENUS 
(Rajasic) 


SUN 
(Rajasic) 


MOON 
(Rajasic) 


MARS 
(Tamasic) 


SATURN 
(Tamasic) 


SUN 
(Rajasic) 


MOON 
(Rajasic) 




RAHU 
(Tamasic) 


SUN 
(Rajasic) 


MOON 
(Rajasic) 




KETU 
(Tamasic) 


SUN 
(Rajasic) 


MOON 
(Rajasic) 





262 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Planets not appearing either friend or enemy are neutrals. 



Strength in houses 


Exalted 


100% 


Moola trikona 


75% 


Own house 


50% 


Friends house 


25% 


Enemy sign 


0% 



There is no uniform friendship and enmity factor. Each 
system has its own enmity and friendship set for planets. It is 
not even based on the Satvik Rajasic Tamasic qualities of the 
planets. (However the scribe in his experiments found out the 
best method of determining the relationship of planets. It is 
very simple and logical. Identify the particular matter from the 
natural significations of a selected planet and compare identified 
matter with the significations of other planet. If both matters 
are in harmony then consider them as friends to that particular 
matter. If it negates take them as enemy to that matter. In this 
method there is no question of outright friendship or enmity 
among two planets. The compatibility will be based on the 
particular matter in their significations. This logic can be extended 
to house matters also. If a particular house matter is supported 
by any planet or any lord for that matter the relationship with 
that lord or planet can be taken as positive. Otherwise treat it 
as enemy to that particular matter.) 

Following the previous trend we shall focus on applying the 
principles in this work for an example horoscope: date of Birth 
22-10-1976, Born on Friday, evening at 5 pm. Tithi is Amavasya. 

First we shall compute the strengths of planets: 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 



263 



As 21 


KelO 


JuR 5 






Natal: 
Rashi Chart (Dl) 

As 21° Pi 37' Revati Me 
Su 5° Li 39' Chitra Mo 
Mo 25° Vi 13' Swati Ra 
Ma 15° Li 46' Swati Ra 
Me 2S° Vi 07* Chitra Ma 
JuR 5° Ta 56' Krittika 5u 
Ve 8° Sc 36' Anuradha Sa 
Sa 22° Cn 08' Aslesha Me 
Ra 10° Li OS' Swati Ra 
Ke 10° Ar 05' Aswini Ke 


Sa22 








Ve8 


Su5 
RalO 
Ma 15 


Me 25 
Mo 25 



The star position of the planets is given in the inset of the 
horoscope. Rahu and Ketu are in their own stars, there are no 
planets in the stars of Moon and Jupiter who are yoga karaka 
for Pisces ascendant. Sun, Moo, Jup, Ven, Sat is in friendly 
stars. Mars and Mercury are in neutral stars. Based on the 
information strengths of the planets is tabled below: 



264 






Roots of 


Naa 


di Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 






100% 


100% 


Positional Strength 100 


Star strength 100 


Planets 


Pak- 
-sha 
Boia 


Oig 
Bola 


Ex/ 
db 


M. 
Tri. 


Own 


Fri- 
-end 


Ene- 

-my 


■ Yoga 
or 

Own 
star 


Friend 


Neu- 
-tral 


Ene- 
-my 


Total 




100% 


100% 


100% 


75 


50 


25 


O 


100 


75% 


50 


25% 




Rahu 


100% 


84% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


25% 


0% 


100% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


77% 


Ketu 


100% 


33% 


50% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


100% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


71% 


Sun 


100% 


67% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


75% 


0% 


0% 


61% 


Moon 


0% 


50% 


33% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


75% 


0% 


0% 


40% 


Venus 


0% 


17% 


33% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


75% 


0% 


0% 


31% 


Jupiter 


0% 


67% 


67% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


75% 


0% 


0% 


52% 


Saturn 


100% 


67% 


50% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


75% 


0% 


0% 


73% 


Mars 


100% 


67% 


50% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


50% 


0% 


67% 


Mercury 


0% 


0% 


100% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


0% 


50% 


0% 


38% 


Paksha Bala. 100. Digbala 100. Positional dignities 100, Star dignities 1QO 
is 50% 


Minimum required 



This is purely for the purpose of the subject discussed in 
this section and a suggestive method for calculation. 

The same planetary strength we use in the coming 
paragraphs while discussing the horoscope with the rules of 
stellar astrology as propounded by the authors. 

Planets in different stars: 

The effects of planets in different stars are given for each 
Lagna. 



General Results of Planets in different stars for each 
Lagna: 

Aries 

Sun, Moon and Jupiter (n own or interchanged stars: 
good results are indicated. 

Venus in the above star also gives good results. 

Venus in Moon star does not give good results. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 265 

Taurus 

Saturn, Rahu, Sun r Mercury in Mercury star will give 
good results. 

Saturn, Rahu in Ketu star or Rahu star give good results. 

Venus in Sun and Mercury star give good results. 

Gemini 

Mercury in own star or Venus, Jupiter or Moon star gives 
good results. 

Venus, Moon, Saturn, Rahu in Mercury or Jupiter star 
give good results. 

Cancer 

Sun and Moon in stars of Jupiter Moon and Sun give good 
results 

Jupiter in the star of Moon gives good results. 

Venus in Jupiter star gives good results 

Leo 

Jupiter, Sun and Moon in the stars of Jupiter or Sun give 
good results 

Mercury in the star of Jupiter gives good results. 

Virgo 

Mercury and Venus in their own or interchanged stars or 
in Jupiter star gives good results. 

Saturn gives good results in the star of Jupiter 

Mars in the stars of Mercury gives good results 

Libra 

Mercury and Mars in the star of Mercury give good results 

Moon in own star gives good results. 



266 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Scorpio 

Sun, Moo, Jupiter in their own star or interchanged stars 
give good results, 

Venus in the stars of Sun or Jupiter gives good results 

Sagittarius 

Sun, Jupiter in their own or interchanged stars gives good 
results. 

Mercury in Jupiter star gives good results 

Sun in Mercury star gives good results 

Mars in stars of Sun or Mercury will also give good results. 

Capricorn 

Mercury in Venus star and Venus in Mercury star gives 
good results. 

Saturn in Ketu star gives good results 

Mars, Saturn in the star of Mercury gives good results 

Aquarius 

Mercury in Venus star and Venus in Mercury star gives 
good results. 

Saturn in Mercury or Ketu star gives good results 

Sun in Mercury star gives good results 

Pisces 

Moon, Jupiter in own star or interchanged stars will give 
good results. 

Mercury in the star of Jupiter gives good results 

The above results are generalized and cannot be taken as 
ultimate. Fundamentally contradicting qualitative effects between 
friendship and enmity, harmony of Guna, natural malefic and 
benefic nature of planets and their lordship with their positional 
dignities are to be examined. The Guna factor is an additional 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 



267 



component in order to assess the nature of results to be 
experienced by native. 



Jeeva and Shareera 




Taurus 



Gemini 



The entire subject of Astrology is based on interchanging 
positions of Sun and Earth on Earth's orbit Therefore it is the 
orbit of Sun around the earth which takes a year to complete 
one circular motion. Each planet has its own orbit in the order 
of Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, on one side (Earth path Sun path or 
same), Venus, and Mercury on the other side. The Moon 
revolving round the earth and the Sun's motion is equated with 
earth's motion. Sun and Moon paths are considered as whole 
circle around the earth. The orbits of other planets are divided 
into two portion one visible half circle and the other is invisible 
half circle. These sections of the orbits are ruled by the five 
planets as their lords. The Sun and Moon revolve round the 
earth and they rule the entire path. Thus 5 planets rule 10 



268 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



sections and Sun and Moon rule other 2 sections. These sections 
are equally distributed at 30 degrees each forming an imaginary 
elliptical circle extended beyond stars. These divisions are named 
after the shapes formed by group of stars falling in each division 
and thus 6 visible and 6 invisible parts are called 12 zodiac 
signs. The root of imaginary belt is planetary paths therefore 
each division of path of a planet is ruled by it. Remember the 
interchanged position of Sun and Earth. The Astrology is based 
on the concept that earth is stationary and entire solar system 
moving around it. This solar system is seen through the zodiac 
formed by orbital path of planets. Due to this the revolving 
earth is considered as Suns revolution around earth which takes 
1 year. Therefore the Sun stays in a sign for one month. This is 
because of revolving movement of Sun. Next is earth spins on 
its axis in 24 hours. This has to be reflected through Sun keeping 
earth as nonmoving object. Therefore keeping the Sun in the 
same sign, the zodiac is moved at the spinning rate. This makes 
every sign to rise at horizon at an interval of approximately 2 
hours and all the 12 signs rise at horizon within 24 hours. Entire 
month the sign where Sun is posited will be rising in the horizon 
along with Sun. When month changes, the next sign will continue 
to be rising at horizon along with Sun for the entire month. 2 
hours each sign will change whereas the the Sun will remain in 
the same sign for the entire month. These rising signs are called 
ascendants. We have all the 12 Ascendants rising in 24 hours. 
In this daily cosmic plan the rays of Sun representing universal 
Atma energizes the eastern horizon with several Jeevatma 
destined to be born on earth through 12 zodiac signs. In this 
celestial bombardment, not only the Jeevatma but also other 
wonders of creations are also activated including plant, mineral 
and animal Kingdom. Through Ascendant the Jeeva comes into 
being in the world and therefore, logically the astrological texts 
consider Lagna as Jeeva. 

The advantage of flexibility of Indian philosophy is, it can 
be universally applied. Hitherto science claimed that mind is 
outcome of brain. Modern scientists, especially psychological 
experts are diving into exploration of consciousness. They have 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 



269 



to a certain extent established that the brain is an instrument 
like computer with circuits. Conscious at different parts trigger 
the cells of brain which generates wavelengths. These 
wavelengths when perceivable with 5 senses collectively is called 
mind. In its perception shapes and varied sensibilities are 
generated and perceived by the mind. Beyond this perception 
what exists is energy. Mind is a product of brain, triggered by 
consciousness, creates illusions through its functional ability of 
perception. The human being as physical body and the material 
world is one such product of mind which it perceives through 
five sense wavelengths. Each of these wavelengths interacts 
with chemical activities to produce nine different qualities of 
experiences and expressions. This relationship philosophically 
explained by great seers as Panchendriaya and Navarasa. 






NASYA 



ftASA | 



yc 

Ai RAUOftA-RASA 

%<*ff I ■ II * "I I MH Ii P I! 1)1' I' 

Q } KAftUNA.ftASA 

-p. V*nffB*tlXttXCJ 
W— J j Ay*ftftw>jy _ 

£*} \ OHAYARASA 



ADOKUTA-ftASA 



SHANTA-ftASA 




The planets allotted to nava rasa is for another purpose, 
however, it is to establish that all the feelings, perceptions are 
the creation of mind and its chemical reactions. If Jeeva is the 
triggering factor, the Body is the illusion of mind which is ruled 
by Moon. 

If Jeeva is the ascendant which is derivative of Sun moment, 
the Shareera is the derivative of Moon which is represented by 
the sign where the Moon is posited. This is called Ascendant of 
Moon. 

This factor has some sensible predictive aspects in astrology. 
However there is one more concept of Jeeva and Shareera, 



270 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

A large percentage in the human race suffers due to 
disharmony between the conscious and the illusionary effects 
of Mind. This disharmony can be identified by the strength of 
these two ascendants and their relationship in the horoscope. 
The assessment is based on static space matter that is both 
signs of Ascendants and dynamic lords of these signs. Benefic 
and malefic influences are judged for these components to 
determine the favorable or unfavorable experiences of the native 
during his life time. The horoscope is assessed in two ways one 
through Ascendant another through Moon sign. Normally all 
traditional astrology recommends this type of assessment. 

Jeeva and Shareera concept in astrology has many versions. 
One such version is considering Jeeva and Shareera planets for 
each house separately. Here every house is considered as Lagna. 
The sign lord where the House lord is situated is called Jeeva 
planet. The sign lord occupied by the sign lord of Jeeva planet 
will be Shareera planet. 

In the example horoscope Pisces Lagna lord Jupiter is also 
10 th Lord and Jupiter is in 3 rd house that is Taurus. The Lord of 
3 rd house Venus is Jeeva planet for 10 th house. Venus is posited 
in Scorpio and sign lord is Mars. Mars is Shareera lord of 10 th 
house. The. 10* house Jeeva is represented by Venus who is 
lord of 3 rd and 8 th house posited in 9 th .aspecting his own house 
3 rd Shareera Planet Mars is lord of 2 nd and 9 th posited in 8 th and 
he is with Sun the 6 th lord and with Rahu. The Jeeva planet is 
also having an aspect with 10 th Lord who is also Lagna lord. 
The native desired for a Job in a luxurious organization. Mars 
who is Shareera planet first gave him hardworking jobs and its 
exchange with Venus gave him the desired job ultimately. There 
is a harmonious relationship between Venus and Mars being in 
exchange. The effect of 8 th , 3 rd 2 nd and 9 th house is unique 
supporting factors. 9 th house of Mars is 2 nd to 8 th house of Venus. 
3 rd house of Venus is 2 nd house to Mars owned 2 nd house. 
Ironically they are in exchange. 

The concept is extended to Karaka planets of each house. 
For example in the above horoscope the Karaka for father is 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 277 

Sun who is in Venus house. Venus is the Jeeva for Father's 
house. From Venus 9 th house is Cancer is Shareera house whose 
lord is Moon is Shareera planet. ft>r father Venus and Moon are 
Jeeva and Shareera. Father is artistic minded interested in occults 
matters and he retired from commercial oriented private services, 
lost properties and money. Hope we can relates all these because 
with number of planets linking to Moon and Venus in various 
manner. 

We are discussing stellar naadi system and therefore I need 
to focus on Jeeva and Shareera through stellar mansions as 
propounded by the authors. 

Each Bhava has to be considered separately and consider 
its Bhava lord and then apply the following rules. 

Jeeva Planet 

The lord of the Star in which a particular House lord is 
posited is Jeeva Lord for that House. 

If the lord of a house is in his own star then the same lord 
will become the Jeeva Planet. 

If Jeeva Planet is associated with another strong planet 
then that planet, strongest among them will become the Jeeva 
planet. 

Shareera Planet 

The star lord of the Jeeva Planet will become the Shareera 
planet. 

In case where the Jeeva Planet is in its own star, then the 
sign lord where this Jeeva planet is posited will become Shareera 
Planet 

If this Shareera planet is in association with another strong 
planet then, the strongest among them will become Shareera 
planet. 



272 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

(Note: if more than one planet is in the same sign, strongest 
among them and close to the Jeeva or Shareera planet will take 
away the dignities). Dr. N.V.R.A Raja, (Jr.Meena 2) gives 
application of this module in his research work "Stellar effects 
in Astrology, Jeeva and Shareera" 

At this stage, to apply the principle of Jeeva and Shareera 
we take the example horoscope given above: 

In the above example, the lord of 10 th Bhava Jupiter is in 
the Star of Sun. 

Sun is Jeeva planet for 10 th House. 

Sun is in the star of Mars, 

Mars is Shareera Planet. 

With this we can write whole history about 10 th house. The 
Jeeva planet Sun is debilitated and is again associated with 
Shareera planet in 8 th house along with Rahu. Sun represents 
Government, Mars represents uniformed services. The native 
did work for Air force. This combination in 8 th house made the 
native to quit the Air force. There is an exchange of planet Mars 
with Venus, the native gets a Job relating to Vehicles and Finance 
in a foreign company. This is. due to Jeeva planet being with 
foreign planet Rahu. While Shareera planet in exchange gets 
the link of Jupiter through Venus and Jupiter himself is in another 
house of Venus that is Taurus and links to Moo and Mercury in 
Virgo which is 7 th house. He changes his job and goes for higher 
jobs. Because there is friendship between Deha and Shareera 
planet and they are in 8 th house both good and bad results of 
10 th are experienced by native. The exchange also played a big 
part in it. This sort of prediction is the main trick of Naadi system. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 



273 



Nakshatra division: 

27 stars spread across the Zodiac used in Astrology for 
knowing birth star, computing Dasha and in some stellar system 
used for different application. In this work the authors have 
derived rotation of 27 stars in the span of 24 hours which 
supposed to rule for certain duration. For this purpose they 
have evolved authenticated system which is highlighted. The 
scribe is appending a table with a modified presentation. 



Nakshatra group used for dasha. 
In the same order commencing 
from the day's star all the 27 stars 
will have their ruling period. 


Vimsh- 

-otari 

Dasha 

Lords 

Dasha 


Dasha 
Years 


Each 

Star 

Duration 

24/120 

xSpan 

in Yrs: 


3 Sets 
of Star 
Cover 
the 

Time in 
24 Hrs. 


1 


Aswhi 


10 


Makha 


19 


Moola 


Ketu 


7 


0:28:00 


1:24:00 


2 


Bharani 


11 


Pubba 


20 


P.Ashada 


Venus 


20 


1:20:00 


4:00:00 


3 


Kritlika 


12 


Utlara 


21 


U.Ashada 


Sun 


6 


0:24:00 


1:12:00 


4 


Rohinl 


13 


Hasta 


22 


Shravana 


Moon 


10 


0:40:00 


2:00:00 


5 


Mrigasira 


14 


Chitta 


23 


Dhanishta 


Mars 


7 


0:28:00 


1:24:00 


6 


Aridra 


15 


Swati 


24 


Satabisa 


Rahu 


18 


1:12:00 


3:36:00 


7 


PVasu 


16 


Vaishakha 


25 


P.Bhadra 


Jupiter 


16 


1:04:00 


3:12:00 


8 


Pushya 


17 


Anurada 


26 


U.Bhadra 


Saturn 


19 


1:16:00 


3:48:00 


9 


Aslesha 


18 


Jyeshta 


27 


Revathi 


Mercury 


17 


1:08:00 


3:24:00 



This is purely a logical authenticated star division linking to 
Vimshottari Dasha. This time division is an additional component 
which can be tried in horary astrology. The day's Nakshatra lord 
is the ruling Dasha lord. Equating 120 years of life span as 1 
day that is 24 hours, each planet's Dasha duration is derived 
during that day. That is in a day all the planets in Vimshottari 
order will run their Dashas. The authors recommend 
commencing from the Sun rise and taking the Nakshatra 
prevailing at that time and give the full time as shown in the 
table 



274 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



The correctness of the above divisional method can be 
confirmed by an example chart cast for this moment that is on 
27 th July 2011 at 1.15 pm. Hyderabad. 

Prasna 

7/27/2011 1:15:01 PM Zone: -05:30 INT Internet 36 beats 

Hyderabad 

Longitude: 78E23 Latitude: 17N28 CurPEr: Ma/Ju/Sa 

Lahiri Ayanamsha: 24:01 365.25 Day Year True Node 





Jul4:29 


Mo26:31 
Ke28:50 


Ma01:12 


\ Ra28:50 /\ Sal7:59 / 

x 8 x \6/ Mp 
J^As22:16^xV^ 17 

/ io>0 v e04:22\ 
\ XiX Su09:55 / 

x x X x Ma 
llX Jul4:29 X3 ™ 
/12\ /2\01-12 

/ X. /Mo26:3l\ 
/ \/ Ke28:50 \ 




Rashi Chart 


Ve04:22 

5u09:56 




Me05:17 




Ra28:50 


As22:18 


Sai7:59 



Ra 


As 


Me 


5a 


\ Me 
X*X 

Sa iSC 

Mo Ju^xx 

/ 5u 
/ Ke 


As 

\i/ 
4 x\ 10 

Ma 


Ra / 
XX 11 

xx^ 
/ 8 X 




Navamsa (D9) 






Mo Ju 
Ve 






Ma 


5u 
Ke 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 




275 


Planetary Position 


As 


22° 


Li 


18' 


Vishakha 


Ju 


Su 


9° 


Cn 


56' 


Pushya 


Sa 


Mo 


26° - 


Ta 


31' 


Mrigsira 


Ma 


Ma 


1° 


Ge 


12' 


Mrigsira 


Ma 


Me 


5° 


Le 


17' 


Magha 


Ke 


Ju 


14° 


Ar 


29' 


Bharani 


Ve 


Ve 


4° 


Cn 


22' 


Pushya 


Sa 


Sa 


17° 


Vi 


59' 


Hasta 


Ma 


Ra 


28° 


Sc 


50' 


Jyeshtha 


Me 


Ke 


28° 


Ta 


50' 


Mrigsira 


Ma 


Day: 


Weds Sunrise: 5:56 AM 




Tithi: 


Krishna Dwadashi 




Yoga Pt: 


9:47 Sg Yogi: Ke 




AviYogi : 


Ra DupYogi: Ju 





In the above system at 1:15 pm running star division is of 
Sun star and in the chart Sun is in 10 th house and is with Lagna 
and 8 th lord Venus. Both are in aspect to 4 th house. Sun is in the 
star of Saturn who is lord of 4 th and 5 th in 12 th house. The Sign 
lord of running Dasha lord is Moon who is lord of 10 th and is in 
6 th . Moon is in the star of Mars who is lord of 2 nd and 7 th posited 
in 9 th . Running Dasha lord indicating karma being in 10 th house 
whose lord is Moon indicating Mind. Atma and Mind both are 
participating in present karma. The entire astrology is based on 
Sun and Moon. Sun is with Lagna Lord in the house of Mind. 
The Moon dispositor is in the 8 th house representing secrets. It 
is with Ketu an occult planet making it clear that the matter of 
search relates to occult secrets. From 10 th along with Lagna 
lord Venus Sun aspects 4 th house the house of learning and 
education. The matter is learning or knowing the occult secrets. 
Moon along with Ketu throws their aspect on 2 nd house 
representing Vak (speech). Ket has its trine aspect to 12 th and 
Saturn lord of 4 th and 5 th and Saturn having aspect on 2 nd , 6 th , 



276 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



9 th house. Ketu is also influencing 4 th house with his occult 
matters. Jupiter aspects Lagna 3 rd house 11 th house being in 7 th 
house. Jupiter also aspect Mercury lord of 9 and 12. Saturn is 
aspecting Mars lord of 2 and 7 in 9. Mars is also aspecting 
Saturn 12 th and 3 rd and 4 th house. All the houses and planets 
are interlinked to establish that the present karma of astrology 
research supported by houses and planets. This is how the 
cosmic plan works and gives confirmations to our actions. 

This particular system can be used for Prashna especially 
relating to metaphysical matters. It can indicate whether a 
thought process of karma will lead to papa or punya. 

For precision it is advisable to consider the balance portion 
of the day's star and then compute for the ruling lord of the 
time of epoch. This will be more accurate. The same example is 
worked out as shown below; 



For 13:20 star span of Mar = Time is 0:28:00 for 
Balance of 7:10 Deg it is 0:15:03 


5:56:00 


0:15:03 


6:11:03 


MAR 


6:11:03 


1:12:00 


7:23:03 


RAH 


7:23:03 


1:04:00 


8:27:03 


JUP 


8:27:03 


1:16:00 


9:43:03 


SAT 


9:43:03 


1:08:00 


10:51:03 


MER 


10:51:03 


0:28:00 


11:19:03 


KET 


11:19:03 


1:20:00 


12:39:03 


VEN 


12:39:03 


0:24:00 


13:03:03 


SUN 


13:03:03 


0:40:00 


13:43:03 


Moo-(13:15) 


13:43:03 


0:28:00 


14:11:03 


MAR 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 



277 



Moo is Lord of 10 in 8 aspect 2 nd house 



Moon in the star of Mars: Lord of 2, 7, in 9 



Moon has in its Star Saturn: Lord of 4, 5 and in 12 



Moon is with Ketu having Rahu in 7 th 



Lagna in the star of Jupiter, lord of 3, 6 and in 7 



Jupiter aspects Lagna, 11 th and 3 rd and Mercury 



Lagna lord Venus: lord of 8 and in 10 th 



Lagna lord is with Sun Lord of 11 th 



Lagna lord is in the star of Saturn lord of 4, 5, in 12 



Lagna lord is having aspect of Rahu from 2 nd . 



Rahu is in the star of Mercury lord of 9 and 12 



There is mutual aspect between Saturn and Mars 



In the later method all the 12 houses and 9 planets linked 
to establish the accuracy of 2 nd method. 

This is double confirmation that precisely if Balance of Dasha 
method is taken without much efforts the matter will be clear. 

This information is useful only in Prashna and can be used 
with other astrological principles for predicting questions. Beyond 
this, its use in the in birth chart analysis is insignificant. 



Ruling 


Guna 


on week days for 24 hours: 






From Sun Rise to Sun Set 


Time 


Weekday 


From 


To 


Sun. 


Mon. 


Tue. 


Wed. 


Thur. 


Fri. 


Sat. 


6:00:00 


7:30:00 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


7:30:00 


9:00:00 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


9:00:00 


10:30:00 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


10:30:00 


12:00:00 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


12:00:00 


13:30:00 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


13:30:00 


1S:00:00 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


1S:00:00 


16:30:00 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


16:30:00 


18:00:00 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 



278 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 





From Sun Set to Next Day Sun Rise 


18:00:00 


19:30:00 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


19:30:00 


21:00:00 


Tama sic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


21:00:00 


22:30:00 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


■Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


22:30:00 


0:00:00 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


0:00:00 


1:30:00 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


1:30:00 


3:00:00 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


3:00:00 


4:30:00 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


4:30:00 


6:00:00 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 


Satvik 


Rasasik 


Tamasic 



The computation is taken as 1 hour 30 minutes for each 
Guna that will be ruling at a particular time of the day. Basically 
the above system is similar to Hora lord having a span of 1 hour 
where in at the end of 24 hours, the next Hora lord will indicate 
the next day of the week. Here also the next Guna after 
completion of 24 hours is the beginning Guna of the next day. 
At any given point of time these two components either give a 
harmonic or disharmonic Guna for a particular matter in question. 

This will be useful again in the horary astrology especially 
useful in compatibility factors between personal, professional 
and material aspects of life. 

For example to know whether this particular method of 
assessment is in harmony with the authenticated methodology 
of astrology, I take the two components for the present day. 

Today is 29/7/2011 the time is 10:01 am. The day is Friday. 



FROM 


TO 


GUNA 




FROM 


TO 


HORA 


5:56:00 


7:26:00 


Rajasik 




5:56:00 


6:56:00 


VEN 


7:26:00 


8:56:00 


Tamasik 




6:56:00 


7:56:00 


MER 


8:56:00 


10:26:00 


SATVIK 




7:56:00 


8:56:00 


MOO 


10:26:00 


11:56:00 


Rajasik 




8:56:00 


9:56:00 


SAT 


11:56:00 


13:26:00 


Tamasik 


U 


9:56:00 


10:56:00 


JUP 


13:26:00 


14:56:00 


SATVIK 




10:56:00 


11:56:00 


MAR 


14:56:00 


16:26:00 


Rajasik 




11:56:00 


12:56:00 


SUN 


16:26:00 


17:56:00 


Tamasik 




12:56:00 


13:56:00 


VEN 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 279 

During this question hour both Guna and the ruling planet's 
Guna are Satvik which is indicating the harmony between the 
methods of analysis duly authenticated. 

Yoga karaka for each Lagna: 

Aries SUN (5), MOON (4), JUPITER (9, 12) 

Taurus MERCURY (2, 5) 

Gemini VENUS (5, 12) 

Cancer JUPITER (6, 9) 

Leo JUPITER (5, 8) 

Virgo VENUS (2, 9) 

Libra MOON (4), MERCURY (9, 12) 

Scorpio JUPITER (2, 5), SUN (10) MOON (9) 

Sagittarius SUN (9) 

Capricorn MERCURY (6, 9), VENUS (5, 10) 

Aquarius MERCURY (5, 8), VENUS (4, 9) 

Pisces MOON (5), JUPITER (1, 10) 

The authors seem to have taken Sun as benefic and Moon 
also as benefic attributing Pakshabala of Moon as its strength. 
Yoga karaka status for Saturn and Mars being natural malefic 
are completely ignored though traditionally they are designated 
with Yoga karaka status for a few ascendant. However one of 
them has included Saturn and Mars when they own two houses 
both from Kendra and Kona. There is also mention of Rahu 
equating with Saturn. (However Ketu is ignored though equated 
with Mars) 

Presumably, to avoid the natural malefic instinct of cruel 
planets, the authors must have advocated only the best yoga 
karakas for each ascendant as they also mention it. 



280 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



{Explanatory Note: The subject dealing with Yoga 
karaka status in Parasara is of high technical nature 
explored in Jaataka Chandrika. The modifications each 
planet undergoes due to their lordships by position and 
association results in not less than five types of dignities. 
These planets will have different capacities to give 
results during their period. Every planet has criteria of 
becoming yoga karaka depending upon the Ascendant 
This entire technology is hidden in explanatory works 
on Jaataka Chandrika, Bhavartha Ratnakara and Phala 
Deepika. These secrets are taught in n Saampradaya 
paddati" through a guru. Anyway though contradicting, 
for the purpose of this work we consider the list provided 
by the author) 

Drekkana 

Parasara, Jaimini, Varahamihira all have introduced the 
divisional charts. Drekkana is a divisional chart wherein the sign 
is divided into 3 portions of 10 degrees each. Each division is 
assigned with the lordship of 1, 5, 9 counted from them. 
Therefore, first division of every sign will have the same sign 
and its lord assigned. 2 nd division belongs to the sign and lord 
of 5 th sign from it. The 3 rd division belongs to 9 th sign and its 
lord counted from it. Each division will have 3 Navamsa that is 
3 Padas of a Nakshatra. Three Drekkana will have total 9 Padas. 
In Each sign one division of Drekkana is called Uttama Drekkana. 
In Uttama Drekkana falls one Pada representing same sign which 
is Vargottama pada. In other words a planet in this pada will 
attain same sign in Lagna and Navamsa and of course the same 
sign of Drekkana. In this Uttama Drekkana division one Pada 
gains the status of Vargottama and the signs representing other 
two Padas will have a Pada of Drekkana in consideration. 
Therefore these two pandas will be called Parivarthana Pada. 
That is exchange of signs by these two Padas with the original 
sign. A planet Uttama Drekkana gives good results and in a 
vargottama pada excellent results. In Parivarthana pada planets 
get exchanged. The results are again based on the house analysis 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 



281 



and stellar positions counting from Lagna. The Drekkana are 
governed by Sages as follows: 

For Movable Signs: Aries, Cancer, Libra & Capricorn - 
Narada, Agastya and Durvasa 

For Fixed Signs: Taurus, Leo, Scorpio & Aquarius -Agastya, 
Durvasa and Narada 

For Dual Signs: Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius & Pisces- Durvasa, 
Narada & Agastya. 



We give below the Drekkana & Navamsha table for ready 
reference. 


Aries 


MAR 


Chara 


0-10 


10-20 


20-30 


Narada 


Agastya 


Durvasa 


Aries 


Leo 


Sagitt 


Uttama 






Asw3 


aswl+Bh2 


Bha2+Kritl 


Ar/Ta/Ge (Nav) 


Ca/Le/Vi (Nav) 


Li/Sc/Sg (Nav) 


Taurus 


VEN 


Sthira 


0-10 


10-20 


20-30 


Agastya 


Durvasa 


Narada 


Taurus 


Virgo 


Capri 




Uttama 




Krit-3 


Roh3 


Rohl+ Mri2 


Cp/Aq/Ps (Nav) 


Ar/Ta/Ge (Nav) 


Cn/Le/Vi (Nav) 


Gemini 


MER 


Ubhaya 


0-10 


10-20 


20-30 


Durvasa 


Narada 


Agastya. 


Gemini 


Libra 


Aquar 






Uttama 


Mri2+Ard 1 


Ard3 


Pvs-3 


Li/Sc/Sg (Nav) 


Cp/Aq/Ps (Nav) 


Ar/Ta/Ge (Nav) 



282 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Cancer 


MOO 


Chara 


0-10 


10-20 


20-30 


Narada 


Agastya 


Durvasa 


Cancer 


Scarp 


Pisces 


Uttama 






Pvsl+Pus2 


Pus2-Asll 


Asl-3 


Cn/Le/Vi (Nav) 


Li/Sc/Sg (Nav) 


Cp/Aq/Ps (Nav) 



Leo 


SUN 


Sthira 


0-10 


10-20 


20-30 


Agastya 


Durvasa 


Narada 


Leo 


Sagit 


Aries 




Uttama 




Mkh-3 


Mkhl+ Pb-2 


Pb2+Utl 


Ar/Ta/Ge (Nav) 


Ca/Le/Vi (Nav) 


Li/Sc/Sg (Nav) 



Virgo 


MER 


Ubhaya 


0-10 


10-20 


20-30 


Durvasa 


Narada 


Agastya 


Virgo 


Capri 


Taurus 






Uttama 


Ut-3 


Hst-3 


Hstl+Chi2 


CP/Aq/Ps (Nav) 


Ar/Tu/Ge (Nav) 


Cn/Le/Vi (Nav) 



Libra 


VEN 


Chara 


0-10 


10-20 


20-30 


Narada 


Agastya 


Durvasa 


Libra 


Aquar 


Gemini 


Uttama 






Chi-2+Swal 


Swa3 


Vis-3 


Li/Sc/Sg (Nav) 


Cp/Aq/Ps (Nav) 


Ar/Ta/Ge (Nav) 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 


283 




Scorp 


MAR 


Sthira 


0-10 


10-20 


20-30 


Agastya 


Durvasa 


Narada 


Scarp 


Pisces 


Cancer 




Uttama 




Vis-1+Anu2 


Anu2+Jysl 


Jys3 


Cn/Le/Vi (Nav) 


Li/Sc/Sg (Nav) 


Cp/Aq/Ps (Nav) 




Sagitt 


JUP 


Ubhaya 


0-10 


10-20 


20-30 


Durvasa 


Narada 


Agastya 


Sagitt 


Aries 


Leo 






Uttama 


Mul3 


Mull+Pas-2 


Pas-2+Uasl 


Ar/Ta/Ge (Nav) 


Ca/Le/Vi (Nav) 


Li/Sc/Sg (Nav) 




Capri 


SAT 


Chara 


0-10 


10-20 


20-30 


Narada 


Agastya 


Durvasa 


Capri 


Taurus 


Virgo 


Uttama 






Uas-3 


Sra-3 


Sral+Dan2 


Cp/Aq/Ps (Nav) 


Ar/Ta/Ge (Nav) 


Cn/Le/Vi (Nav) 




Aquar 


SAT 


Sthira 


0-10 


10-20 


20-30 


Agastya 


Durvasa 


Narada 


Aquar 


Gemini 


Libra 




Uttama 




Dan2+Satl 


Sat 3 


Pbr-3 


Li/Sc/Sg (Nav) 


Cp/Aq/Ps (Nav) 


Ar/Ta/Ge (Nav) 



284 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 





Pisces 


JUP 


Ubhaya 


0-10 


10-20 


20-30 


Durvasa 


Narada 


Agastya 


Pisces 


Cancer 


Scorpio 






Uttama 


Pbrl+Ubr2 


Ubr2+ Revl 


Rev3 


Cn/Le/Vi (Nav) 


Li/Sc/Sg (Nav) 


Cp/Aq/Ps (Nav) 



Sages have their peculiar qualities which is explicit by their 
activities. Narada is a spirited devotional and dedicated soul 
and he is the best personal relationship manger. Devotion, 
dedication and personal relationship matters can be seen through 
these especially concerning siblings. 

Agastya Muni is also called Kumbha sambhava, meaning 
born out of pot is known for his illustrious knowledge and mental 
capabilities, he is also presumed to have initiated the grammar 
of Tamil language. The extraordinary mental powers of curse or 
care are a unique quality of this Sage. This Drekkana indicates 
the psychological and mental powers. Control of senses being 
the main quality of Sage Durvasa, the the Drekkana is named 
after him. Drekkana is also used to identify the body parts and 
the related diseases affecting the body. 

The author of this section restricts their explanation only to 
Uttama Drekkana, Vargottama and Parivarthana pada. According 
to them a person born in Uttama Drekkana will lead prosperous 
life. They will have artistic bent of mind. 

It is learnt that Satvik Drekkana as it is originally known in 
the astrological fraternity was first brought into light for 
application in prediction with the modified name as Uttama 
Drekkana exploring its use in stellar system of astrology by Sri 
N. V Raghava Chary in his lectures for which he was addressed 
by then astrological circles as Uttama Drekkana Raghava Chary. 
In his later published book he highlights explicit principles on 
Uttama Drekkana. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 285 



In the example horoscope the native was born in Pisces 
Lagna 21:37 which fall in Uttama Drekkana. Though not highly 
qualified the native is leading a prosperous life. 

House division: 

In this system unequal system of house division is not 
prescribed. Only Lagna is computed and sequentially the other 
houses are assigned to signs. 

Influence of stars on Planets 

This is purely based on planets significations and its 
relationship with the other planet representing that star. Here 
the Guna factor of the star lord may have influence in modifying 
the quality of result of the Planet. Basically the qualities of 
Nakshatra may modify the nature of planet in giving the result. 
In stellar astrology the signification of a planet ruling the star is 
merged with the planet under study. The right method in such 
case would be to take the sign lord significations to derive a 
right combination result. It is not possible to link all the sign 
lords into consideration for entire combination and give results, 
only the star planets signification is considered and the scribe 
gives the gist of them while indicating a few results of planetary 
combinations relating to the two planets as per Bhrigu Nandi 
Naadi given in Brackets. 

Sun in the star of Moon: Sun and Moon are both Rajasic 
in nature and both are friends. Due to their same nature there 
will be some excessive proud factors which may belittle the 
good effects. However there will be progress in professional 
and government matters. Moon represents movement and mind 
linking to Atma, native may plan for pilgrims. He may suffer 
from fever and eye trouble. 

(Explanatory notes: The governing signification of 
Sun is evident from its basic signification as atma. Mind 
is the prime signification of Moon. Mind is nothing but 
the reflective factors of sensations through sense organs 



286 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

— iw^m* i ■— «^ i i »"— — — .^— ^— m i n 

rather waves of thoughts. Moon is quick in nature and 
disturbs the reposed status of Sun who is posited in the 
star of Moon. Sun is forced to give the effects of Moon 
attached to his own matters. However the supremacy 
of the Sun prevails and therefore ordinary significations 
of Sun is also experienced by native. In Naadi, Sun and 
Moon combination actually speaks of instability factors 
of father.) 

Moon in the Star of Sun: The position is reversed where 
Moon is under the control of Sun and therefore excellent 
significations of Sun such as Royal favours, parental welfare, 
gains from medical transactions and the holy activities are 
experienced by the native. 

(In Naadi the combination of Moon and Sun speaks 
of governing status of mother and prosperity of father 
in different place is indicated. (However in Naadi Sun 
also represents male progeny and their change of place 
and prosperity are also indicated) 

Sun in the star of Mars: Sun indicates heart and Mars 
indicate blood circulation. Both are fiery planets with different 
Guna one is of Rajasic another is Tamasic. Sun exercises 
governing powers, Mars exerts egoistic powers. These clashes 
of qualities and increased elemental nature affect the brain to 
activate the adrenal glands to produce chemicals which are 
harmful to health. 

The power of Mars is more who is also litigious in nature 
and being the signficators of siblings having prompted by power 
factor of Sun relational disharmony may crop up among siblings. 

The Royal favours may get disturbed due to overpowering 
Mars. Traditionally the solid matters are attributed to Mars; hence 
property matters are also disturbed. 

(According to Naadi Sun and Mars combination gives 
status to brother and tension to father and troubles in 
progress of male child) 



Stefiar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 287 



Mars in the Star of Sun: Mars gets the qualities of Sun, 
All his significations, like daring efforts, Overcoming difficulties, 
Winning spirits, Prosperity to siblings, Grabbing royal favours 
are all indicated. 

(In Naadi the effect of Sun on Mars will be mostly 
on brother of the native who will attain status in the 
society after struggle) 

Sun in the Star of Mercury: Educational and commercial 
inclinations are attributed to native. 

(In Naadi Sun representing father Mercury 
representing intelligence and trade, indicate these 
matter attributed to father. In Naadi the Son is also 
represented by Sun and therefore native's son also 
prospers in similar activities.) 



Mercury in the Star of Sun: Minimal good effects are 
indicated to native in trade, business, and government dealings. 

(In Naadi this combination linked to Jupiter gives 
success in education, Mercury also indicates younger 
siblings, pride and prosperity of younger siblings are 
predicted) 

Sun in the Star of Jupiter: In traditional astrology Jupiter 
being the significator of finance, Children, and a supporting 
factor for relational matters besides being a planet of wisdom. 
All good results are indicated in these matters and Sun being 
indicator of Government, respective support is expected from 
it. 

(In Naadi it indicates the nobility and success factor 
of Father and also the good future for native's son. 
Native himself will have good back ground and inclined 
to gain name and will be spiritual in nature) 

Jupiter in the star of Sun: Constitutes for pride, fame, 
success and celebrations involving relations and friends. Favours 
from the elite and government are also indicated. Sun supports 
good health. (In addition to above results, birth of progeny and 



288 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

success and fame to native and support to son and noble 
background of father is indicated in Naadi) 

Sun in the Star of Venus: Due to enmity factor between 
these two planets, relational disturbances especially among 
opposite sex are attributed. Progressively dissatisfied restricted 
material gains are indicated. 

(In Naadi it indicates the royal background of wife* 
Luxurious and artistic bent of mind of Father/Son. Native 
may get recognition for his higher intelligence. Native 
may have problems from elite and authorities especially 
in finance matters) 

Venus in the Star of Sun: Government or elite 
professional fife with comforts of conveyance and enjoyable social 
life with gains from Venus related matters are indicated. 

(In Naadi it indicates the proud nature of wife of 
native and the wealthy background of father) 

Sun in the Star of Saturn: Bad results relating to 
intellectual faculties of native, gloomy, tensions, obstructions, 
displacement and bereavements of relatives are indicated. 

(Naadi elements indicate hardship to father and 
delay in progeny matters to naive and an elite 
background of professional career.) 

Saturn in the Star of Sun: Native may not enjoy good 
results due to disharmonic relationship of these two planets. 
Similar disharmony may have to be encountered by native 
concerning the personalities indicated by Sun modified by the 
significations of Saturn. Obstructions in the activities are 
indicated. 

(Native may pursue government or elite profession. 
Dispute between father and son are indicated.) 

Sun in the star of Rahu: Loss of properties of parental or 
owned. Fear factors involving, danger from enmity, and fire 
besides unhappiness and is prone to experience unforeseen 
distaste events. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 289 

(Noted family heritage, Hardship and health hazards 
to father and progeny problems are indicated in Naadi) 

Rahu in the star of Sun: Native will be subjected to fraud, 
cheating and harming and litigation effects from cruel persons 
and relatives leading to worry and sadness. 

(Father must have overcome undesired events in 
life; similarly the son of the native may have to struggle 
initially to settle in life. This also indicates the struggle 
of grandfather to find a place of recognition) 

Sun in the star of Ketu: Disputes, quarrels with relatives, 
loss of wealth. Encounter problems of health and danger to life. 
Turns spiritual and visits holy places. 

(It indicates spiritual inclination to father and 
dejected tendencies to son of native) 

Ketu in the star of Sun: Health problems, enmity factors, 
problems from government are indicated. 

(Overcoming difficult situation, the father will have 
spiritual background. The son will have obstruction in 
education) 

Moon in the star of Mars: Fury behavior, mental tensions, 
litigations, health problems and losses, dangers to family 
members. 

(In Naadi Mother is short tempered. Brother/ 
husband prospers after change of place, and Native mind 
is irritated) 

Mars in the star of Moon: Property litigations, loss in 
Mars related activities, worries and problems due to women, 
clash among relatives and friends and ill health. 

(Difficulties surpassed by mother, fickle mindedness 
to brother/husband and changes and travel to them are 
some of Naadi indications). 



290 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Moon in the star of Mercury: Meritorious credits, 
educational excellence. Commercial success and prosperity of 
maternal uncles. 

(In naadi, shrewd mentality of native, intelligent 
mother and younger siblings overcome blemish 
tendencies and settles after change of place, fraudulent 
educational credits of native) 

Mercury in the star of Moon: Family celebrations, 
marriages and help from female folks are indicated. Improvement 
in learning and progress of maternal relatives are indicated. 

(In Naadi, the native may have change in 
educational career. Loss and fraudulent factors of landed 
property and business is indicated. Business in the line 
of significations of Moon is good. Siblings may get 
blames. Native may involve in affair with opposite sex) 

Moon in the star of Jupiter: Wealth, happiness, progeny, 
respect & fame and family celebrations are indicated. He may 
be interested in spiritual matters and it indicates prosperity to 
maternal relatives. 

(In Naadi the native prospers away from birth place 
after initial struggle, Mother is of noble nature. Native 
will have spiritual inclinations) 

Jupiter in the star of Moon: Gains good circle of friends 
and marriage and other celebrations in the family with benefiting 
factors. Increase in fixed assets and happy situations are 
predicted. 

(In Naadi the Native is of fickle nature and is prone 
to get losses in many matters. He may often change his 
place and activities. He cannot stand on his words and 
he will be suffering with cold related problems) 

Moon in the star of Venus: Loss and damages from Moon 
significations. Strained marital relationship, auspicious functions, 
dissatisfactions and overall mixed results are indicated. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 297 

(In Naadi it indicates richness of mother and the 
wife hailing from far away place) 

Venus in the star of Moon: Commencing from fulfilled 
desires ends with dissatisfaction. Ill health to family members 
and gains from women folks are indications. Residence relates 
to Moon's climatic natures. 

(In Naadi it indicates the artistic nature of wife; 
Native may have shortage of income and loss in luxuries. 
Wife may be fickle minded) 

Moon in the star of Saturn: Tragic incidents involving 
relatives, loss, disputes in the family, laziness, lack of clarity of 
mind, danger from water and illicit relationship with woman of 
lower status. 

(In Naadi it indicates the change of place in career 
and ill health to mother.) 

Saturn in the star of Moon: Loss in earnings, discomforts, 
disputes with friends and relatives, fear complex, futile journeys, 
depression and debt worries, ill health, seeks spiritual shelter, 
turning points comes at the end. 

(In Naadi Moon related profession, change in 
profession, blames and cold related problems are 
indicated) 

Moon in the star of Rahu: Loss of wealth, harmful acts 
of enmity, ineffective life, hardships and opposition in ventures, 
sorrow and fear complex. 

(Social nature of mother, shifted family background 
and the fraudulent mentality of native is indicated in 
Naadi) 

Rahu in the star of Moon: Lack peace of mind, suffers 
from cold, poison related problems. Pilgrimage to rivers places, 
progress after struggle is indicated. 

(In Naadi it indicates the struggled period of mother, 
eccentric mentality of the native) 



292 Roofs of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Moon in the star of Ketu: Afflicted health and happiness 
of mother, danger from poison, deaths in family circle, Injuries, 
evil spells and seeking shelter in pilgrims are indicated. 

(In Naadi it indicates the stubborn mentality and 
blocked mind with suicidal tendencies are indicated. It 
also indicates spiritual inclinations. Mother may face 
health problems) 

Ketu in the star of Moon: Unsteady thought process, 
enmity and death factors, though begins with happiness end 
life will suffer. 

(In naadi Mother overcomes hardships and health 
problems, the native may have spiritual inclination, he 
may get entangle with a woman.) 

Mars in the star of Mercury: III health, paucity in 
comforts, litigations and opposition from siblings, death of 
relatives, and harassments from authorities are Indicated. 

(In Naadi commercial mentality of husband/brother 
and technical background in the education of native with 
hardships are indicated) 

Mercury in the star of Mars: Fear of foes, wrangle, ill 
health, fury, disputes with maternal side, marred intelligence 

(In Naadi it indicates hardships in education, landed 
property disputes and technical knowledge are 
indicated) 

Mars in the star of Jupiter: Good results will follow after 
initial struggle with due recognition. Progeny and property 
matters may be fulfilled, despite the native grumbles. 

(Naadi: Brother of the native and husband in women 
horoscope will be noble in nature and prospers with little 
hardship. The native might have overcome difficulties) 

Jupiter in the star of Mars: Accidents, injuries, blood 
problems, hardships, mental worries, debts and disharmony with 
friends and colleagues are indicated. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 293 

(Naadi: Native is harsh and fury in nature but daring 
in his activities and does not use intelligence when 
required) 

Mars in the star of Venus: Venture failures and 
obstruction in progress. Native involves in affairs with opposite 
sex causing loss. Actually suffers with pompous outlook. 

(The brother/husband of the native will be of 
luxurious intentions with artistic interest. The wife of 
the native must have overcome hardships and leads 
authoritative life after marriage.) 

Venus in the star of Mars: Fear complex and harming 
effects involving females, worries, disturbed mental conditions, 
ill health, and loss of wealth are indicated. 

(Naadi: Wife is is short tempered and rules the 
house. Native will have more expenditure. Rift in family 
matters is indicated.) 

Mars in the star of Saturn: Fear, Accidents, injuries, Leg 
injuries, Travel or change of place, failures and loss in ventures, 

(Naadi: Native might overcome difficulties in his 
professional activities, Brother of the native may suffer 
initially before settling in life. In woman horoscope the 
husband is lazy and sadistic in nature) 

Saturn in the star of Mars: All bad results concerning, 
property, family, siblings cause mental suffering encountering 
enmity factors. 

(Naadi: Native will have profession relating to 
technical, machinery and hard work nature. He will have 
professional hazards. One of the brothers must have 
overcome difficulties in life. Women horoscope the 
husband will overcome problems and will cause 
sufferings in family.) 

Mars in the star of Rahu: Though little benefic results 
follow, the native suffers loss of wealth, ill health, injuries, 



294 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

failures, quarrels and enmity making him to lose control over 
senses with Illusions of wellbeing. 

(Naadi: Danger to husband/ brother, Native may 
internally violent but externally looks to be submissive. 
He is prone to blood impurities and chronic diseases 
which may have sudden impact.) 

Rahu in the star of Mars: Landed disputes, quarrel with 
siblings, Accidents and injuries, death of near and dear, ill health. 

(Naadi: Husband/brother must have overcome 
dangers in life. Husband hails from a different 
community background. Native may exhibit 
uncontrolled sense of anger) 

Mars in the star of Ketu: Winning over enemies, 
maintains good relationship with siblings. Not good for health 
matters. 

(Naadi: brother/husband may be inclined towards 
spiritual outlook, Native is adamant in nature and bent 
upon exercising his authority over others) 

Ketu in the star of Mars: Health matters, relationship 
with siblings are all affected. 

(Mother-side grand parents must have suffered to 
come up in life and they are short tempered. Husband 
must have overcome difficult situation in professional 
and health matters. 

Mercury in the star of Jupiter: Good results pertaining 
to knowledge, trade, finance, progeny are indicated. 

(In Naadi it indicates progress for younger siblings 
and educational progress to native) 

Jupiter in the star of Mercury: Higher learning or sacred 
knowledge, commerce and trade, financial gains, celebrations, 
and respect from society are indicated. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 295 

(In Naadi Native will be intelligent and will be cordial 
with his younger siblings. Native may befriend opposite 
sex) 

Mercury in the star of Venus: One is intelligent planet 
another is expertise planet; the native may be benefited from 
gain good educational, property gains both movable and 
immovable are indicated. Celebrations, honours and credit from 
authorities can be expected. 

(Naadi: One of the siblings of the native may enjoy 
riches and joyful life, Native may pursue higher 
education or expertise in sacred knowledge. He may 
associate with rich friends) 

Venus in the star of Mercury: Meritorious educational 
progress, commercial success is indicated. 

(In Naadi: Intelligent or educated and social natured 
wife, native may gain from education and land, native 
may have multiple relationships) 

Mercury in the star of Saturn: Stupidity, demerits, 
dermatological problems, little gains is indicated. 

(Delay in education, or may pursue practical oriented 
education, One of the siblings will progress slowly in 
the life, if female sibling will have family problems.) 

Saturn in the star of Mercury: Though educational 
progress is indicated, trade, material benefits and recognition 
are not satisfactory. 

(Naadi: profession may relate to education or 
business or land oriented. Professionally may have 
relation with opposite sex. In a female chart this may 
indicate dual marriage) 

Mercury in the star of Rahu: Educational drawbacks, 
financial stringency, strained relationship with friends and 
relatives, Skin diseases and sudden incidents may take place. 



296 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

(Marred intellect, secret affairs or foreign education 
are indicated) 

Rahu in the star of Mercury: Recovery of lost asset, 
limited progress in commercial activities and improvement in 
learning and dissatisfaction are indicated. 

(Naadi: One of the siblings overcome danger to life, 
Intelligence and lands of grand parent, Change in the 
course of education to native) 

Mercury in the star of Ketu: Low income and loss in 
trade, sudden undesirable events, problems in education, 
stupidity are indicated. 

(Naadi: Obstructions in education except in the field 
of medicine or law or spiritual matters, Entanglement 
with opposite sex) 

Ketu in the star of Mercury: May become reluctant with 
slow progress having meager gains. 

(Native may have to overcome educational 
problems. Landed disputes are indicated) 

Jupiter in the star of Venus: Properties, education, 
finance, honour and marital matters flourish and needs are met. 

(Naadi: Native will be artistic in nature and prospers 
after marriage, he will be passionate, and though not 
affluent in financial matters he will be content. Wife of 
native hails from noble family) 

Venus in the star of Jupiter: Celebrations, progeny, 
religious matters, help from women and yet results are not 
extraordinary. 

(Naadi: Good natured wife, comfortable life, higher 
intelligence) 

Jupiter in the star of Saturn: Ignored by friends, relatives 
and society, suffers with Rheumatic diseases, mounting debts, 
displacements. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 297 

(Naadi: Native is person of dharma and Karma, Job 
prospects, progress in life are indicated, gas related 
problems) 

Saturn in the star of Jupiter: Recovery from loss, 
prosperity of children and gains from Saturn related 
significations. 

(Naadl: Promotion in career, progress to elder 
brother) 

Jupiter in the star of Rahu: Worries and distress due to 
sudden undesired incidents, slow progress in life, Fear complex, 
scarcity, ill health and dangers to life of friends and relatives, ill 
fame in the society 

(Naadi: III health, fear of death, last rites) ' 

Rahu in the star of Jupiter: Fame in the society, sudden 
gains from unknown resources. Recovery from diseases 

(Naadi: Native tends to be irreligious, seeks 
normless enjoyment) 

Jupiter in the star of Ketu: Failure in ventures, ill health, 
cowardice, untoward incidents, later part little recovery 

(Native: Spiritual bent of mind, dejected towards 
material matters, Body pains) 

Ketu in the star of Jupiter: Loss of material gains at 
latter part of life, religious bent of mind and association with 
similar personalities, may fulfill his desires. 

(Native is having protection from divine grace; 
grandmother is noble and religious person) 

Venus in the star of Saturn: Strained relationship 
between husband and wife, harm from women, ill health to 
couple, and delay in works, unhappy results. 

(Native: wife of native is lazy but working lady) 



298 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Saturn in the star of Venus: Fear complex, strained 
relationship of couple, Displacement and uncertain wandering, 
cannot use his talent to work, worries and tensions. 

(Naadi: Native is destined to make wealth, may gain 
from wife) 

Venus in the star of Rahu: Unexpected events and the 
native poses to be well off, little benefits are expected. 

(Native: ill health to wife and women folks in the 
family.) 

Rahu in the star of Venus: Loss in business, wealth and 
money, debts, poor learning capacity, wrath from authorities, 
loss of kith and kin. 

(Native: Earns illegally, huge money, big house and 
luxurious vehicles, and illicit relationships and 
enjoyments. Wife/daughter health problems) 

Venus in the star of Ketu: No good results, sudden bad 
' results may happen 

(Naadi: Money, house etc., Blocked, wife is of 
spiritual nature and dejected mentality) 

Ketu in the star of Venus: Sickness to wife/husband, 
worries, Loss in Venus related matters. 

(Overcome materialistic difficulties, wife surpasses 
ill health problems) 

Saturn in the star of Rahu: Mental disorder, sudden 
sickness, sudden deaths of relatives, poverty and struggles are 
expected 

(Naadi: Unethical works, foreign related profession, 
initial struggles, body pains, long time diseases, lost 
rites) 

Rahu in the star of Saturn: Overcome difficulties, debts 
and health failures, stagnant professional careers 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 299 

(Over comes hurdles in life and gets out of unethical 
situations and recovers from health) 

Saturn in the star of Ketu: Native prospers with success 
in all matters 

(Naadi: Blocks and obstructions in the work, 
disputes, and body pains) 

Ketu in the star of Saturn: Loss of wealth, disputes with 
government and officials, shifting of places, death in the family. 

(Naadi: dejected mood towards profession, plans for 
change the line or quit the procession, spiritual and 
metaphysical approach) 

Most of these combinations are based on the significations 
of planets. Traditionally, Saturn, Rahu, Ketu and Mars are 
attributed with bad results and therefore in majority of the cases 
the bad effects are mostly indicated when the influence of these 
planets is on benefic planets. However along with it the friendship 
and enmity factor are also considered to modify the bad and 
good effects. 

These can only be used as simple guide lines to assess the 
combination of planets and the actual results shall go various 
modifications based on the houses and lordships. 

Retrograde planets 

In Bhrigu Nandi Naadi retrograde planets are supposed to 
give the results of previous sign. However the point at which 
the retrogession commenced will be given prime importance. 
For example if a planet has moved to next sign and then by 
retrogression has reached previous sign, the effect of the sign 
where he entered first will be given importance and those matters 
are considered reversal. If he retrogrades in the same sign not 
reaching previous sign then the matters of previous sign is to 
be brought forward to modify the result of present sign. 



300 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



In this work, the authors suggest that for malefics the sign 
in which the planet is posited is to be considered irrespective of 
his commencement of retrograde sign. For benefics it is 
suggested to take the sign where actually retrograde 
commenced. 

The works of both the authors though differ on negligible 
issues contain same information. The latter has some exclusive 
purport for reading. However certain classical definitions 
regarding Bhava analysis, Yoga karaka and Dasha bhukti analysis 
need to considered and then the principles of Naadi propounded 
by the authors to be taken into consideration. 

Predictive principles: 

1 6, 8, ,12 houses as known in traditional method is 
considered evil. In this method also these houses 
and their lords are evil. 

2 Planets will acquire the Guna of the lord of star 
where the planet is posited. Similarly by conjunction 
and exchange with other planets there will be 
interchanging Guna. 

3 Jeeva and Shareera Planets identified to each Bhava 
may lose their acquired dignity to another strong 
planet conjunct with them. 

4 The Guna is qualitative change in the results and it 
will not block the events. 

5 Planets in the stars of lords of 6, 8, 12 tend to give 
bad results. Such bad results will intensify further if 
the lords of these houses are Tamasic nature which 
causes much agony. 

6 Natural malefic planets especially Saturn and Mars 
will influence the houses and planets they associate 
or aspect with their evil effects. Rahu and Ketu ahe 
also equally malefic. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 301_ 

7 A house will also lose its good effect if it is occupied 
or having aspect or hemmed between malefic 
planets 

8 Results of houses owned occupied by a planet will 
be given by another planet posited in its 3 stars 
anywhere in the horoscope. 

9 Significations by their natural nature, acquired 
(Guna) and the houses signified by lordship and 
occupation of both Planets and its Star planet should 
be in harmony for very good results. 

10 The strength of the planets like Digbala, exaltation, 
placed in own house or friendly house are to be 
considered. 

11 A Bhava karaka planet is to be given equal 
importance as to the Bhava to which he is a Karaka. 
Planets in its star will give the results of Karaka. 
Karaka in a star of planet signifying disharmonic 
house matter will lose its dignity as Karaka. 

12 Conjunction of Karaka planet and the planet 
signifying the house matter of Karaka in a good 
house (that is other than 6, 8, 12) gives good results 

13 Planets in their own stars are power full to give the 
results of the houses owned and occupied by them. 

14 Mutual aspect between two planets in their own 
stars will indicate certain memorable incidents 
either good or bad during their period. In case one 
of them being in other's star. The planet will give 
the results of the star planet with the modified 
effects of houses owned by him. (Example Sun lord 
of 5 posited in 2 nd in the star of Mars who owns 1, 8 
and placed 8, then Sun will give results of 
unfavorable results of 5 th while supporting longevity 
factors.) 



302 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

15 The bhukti of a planet in whose Star the Dasha lord 
is placed will be eventful period. Similarly the bhukti 
lord will give eventful matters during Antara of a 
planet in whose star the Bhukti lord is placed. 

16 The stars of Sun, Mars, and Jupiter extend over two 
signs. Any planet in these stars will have the 
influence both these signs and the relevant houses. 

17 A Planet placed in the star of a planet that is evil by 
its natural signification and also signifies houses of 
evil by ownership and occupation, will cause 
immense trouble during its period. 

18 House spoiled by natural malefic planets will cause 
displeasure when they are signified through planet 
in the star of their lords. This will be evidently 
disgraceful if the planet itself is linked to evil nature 
by houses and also by its natural nature. 

19 A planet in a star of Yoga karaka tends to give the 
effect of Yoga during its period. 

20 The status of yoga results again dependent on 
several harmonic factors to have desired enjoyment 
through yoga. 

These are some of the principles suggested in the system. 
In Astrology rules are for guidelines, the application parts depend 
upon the logic quotient and the interpreting ability. The art of 
prediction lies in explored diverse application of authenticated 
principles restricted to a particular method. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 303 

The entire work is concentrated on 4 main points: 

1 Guna of Planets 

2 Jeeva and Shareera 

3 Uttama Drekkana & Vargottama Pada 

4 Star level significations. 

Uniqueness is of using Guna of planets, Jeeva and Shareera 
and Uttama Drekkana. The 4 th component is stellar based 
prediction was already used by many scholars. There have been 
further works on sub division of stars which were gaining 
popularity. Even today stellar based astrology especially with 
division of stars are progressively under research and modern 
scholars have gone ahead with minutest division of stars and 
tried to perfect the system of astrology to the best of their 
ability. These are partly discussed in some other section in this 
volume. We are trying to understand one of the unique systems 
involving the new components introduced by these two authors. 

Having covered the important components, we shall see 
how these are applicable practically taking the example 
horoscope. 

Though the authors are silent on the part of computation 
of birth chart based on unequal division of houses, the scribe 
feels it is essential to erect a chart with unequal division, in 
order to suit the stellar divisional effects which these authors 
have established. This is scribe's personal opinion and belief. 
Logic behind is when we arrive at cuspal degrees for all the 
houses for a given ascendant, the cusps fall in certain stars 
giving a scope to study the effect of their Drekkana and Amsha 
position. This perhaps may be unpermitted extension with due 
apologies to authors the scribe would like to present while 
highlighting their principles through the Example chart. 



304 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Birth Details: 

Date of Birth: 

Time of Birth: 

Place of Birth: 

Born in: 

Tithi: 

Day of birth: 

Ascendant: 



22-10-1976 

17:00:00 Hrs. 

Hyderabad 

Chitta Nakshatra 

Amavasya 

Friday 

Meena 

(Note: the section is also Meena Naadi) 

THE CHART 



360 
Pis 


Bl 
Jup 


An 


Mar 


Tau 


Ven 


60 
Gem Mer 


21°47' 


House 1 


24°53' 


House 2 


22°25' 


House 3 


17°43' 


House 4 


JUP 


In Star ME 


MAR 


In star VE 


VEN 


In star MO 


MER 


In star RA 


330 


KE10°06' 



In star 
KE 

30 


JU(R)06°C 
30 


)l r In star 
SU 
60 


90 


330 
Aqa 


Sat 


Male born on 

22-10-1976 at 

17:00 hrs. 

Hyderabad 


90 
Can Mon 


i5°2r 


House 12 


14°18' 


House 5 


SAT 


In star RA 


MOO 


In star SA 


300 


SA- ME-SU 
22°08 , 4I" 12fJ 


300 
Cap 


Sat 


120 
Leo Sun 


14°18 r 


House 11 


15°21" 


House 6 


SAT 


In star Mo 


SUN 


In star VE 


270 


150 


270 

Sag 


Jup 


SCO 


Mar 


Lib 


Ven 


150 
Vir Mer 


17*43' 


House 10 


22°25* 


House 9 


24 53' 


House 8 


21°47' 


House 7 


JUP 


In star VE 


MAR 


In star ME 


VEN 


In star Ju 


MER 


In star MO 


240 


VE-08°42' 
240 


In star SA 
210 


MA-15°52 

RA-10°06' 

5U-05°45' 

210 


In star RA 

In star ra 

In star MA 

180 


ME-25°13'InstarMA 
MO-25 19*InstarMA 

180 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 






305 


CUSP DETAILS: TABLE -1 


House 


Sign 
Degree 


in Star 
Pada 


drekana 


Amsha 


LAGNA 


21 PI 


47 


Mer 2 


Uttama 


9 


Cap 11 


II House 


22° AR 


25' 


VEN 3 


SAG 


10 


SCR 9 


III House 


22° TA 


25' 


MOO 4 


CAP 


11 


CAN 5 


IV House 


17° GE 


43' 


RAH 4 


LIBRA 


8 


PIS 1 


V House 


14° CA 


18' 


SAT 4 


SCR 


9 


SCR 9 


VI House 


15° LE 


21' 


VEN 1 


Uttama 


10 


LEO 6 


VII House 


21° VI 


47' 


MOO 4 


Uttama 


3 


CAN -5 


VIII House 


24° LI 


53' 


JUP 2 


GEM 


4 


TAU 3 


IX House 


22° SC 


25 


MER 2 


CAN 


5 


AQU 12 


X House 


17° SA 


43 


VEN 2 


ARS 


2 


VIR 7 


XI House 


14° CP 


18' 


MOO 2 


TAU 


3 


Tau 3 


XII House 


15° AQ 


21' 


RAH 3 


Uttama 


4 


Aqu 12 



Table-2 for Dasha Analysis is as follows: 



Das ha 
Lord 


Planet 


For Bhava 
Planets As 


Drk 


Nav 


In the Star of 


Planet 


Deg 


In 
Bhava 


Lord 
of 


Pada 


Gets 
Guna 


Planet 


Lord 
of 


In 
Bhava 


Jeeva 


Sarira 


1st 


Mar-T 


1SLIS2 


7 


2,9 


Swa 
3 


T-Bad 


Rah-T 


*(Rah-T) 
-Ven-R 


Kum 
12 


Aqu 
12 


Rah-T 


8 


7 


Con-Rah + Sun Asp - Ket, 2 


,11,3 


Con-Sun + Rah Asp - 12, 4 


2nd 


Rah-T 


10 LI 06 | 7 


8 


Swa 

2 


T-Bad 


Rah-T 


*(Rah-T) 
-Ven-R 


Kum 
12 


Cap 
11 


Rah-T 


8 


7 


Con-Sun + Rah Asp - 12, 4 


Con-Sun + Rah Asp - 12, 4 


3rd 


Jup-S 


6TA01 


2 


1,10 


Kr 
3 


R-Mix 


(Sun-R) 
Rah-T 


*(Mars-T) 
-Rah-T 


Tau 
3 


Aqu 
12 


Sun-R 


6 


7 


Asp - Ven, Mer, Moo, 9, 7, 11 


Con - Rah + Sun Asp - 2 


4th 


Sat-T | 22 CAM 


S 


11,12 


Asl 

2 


S-Mix 


Mer-S 


*(Mars-T) 
Rah-T 


Pis 
1 


Cap 
11 


Mer-S 


4.7 


7 


Asp - Ven, Mer, Moo, 7, 11, 


2 


Con - Moo Asp - 1 


5th 


Mer-5 


25 VI 13 


7 


4,7 


Chi 

1 


T-Bad 


(Mars-T) 
Rah-T 


*(Rah-T) 
-Ven-R 


Uta 
3 


Leo 
6 


Mar-T 


2,9 


7 


Con - Moo Asp - 1 


Con-Rah + Sun Asp - Ket, 2, 11, 3 


6th 


Ket-T 


10 AR 06 


1 


2 


Asw 
4 


T-Bad 


Ket-T 


*(Ket-T) 
Mar-T 


Leo 
6 


Can 
S 


KFT-T 


2 


1 


Asp - 6, 10 


Asp - 6, 10 


7th 


Ven-R 


8SC42 


8 


3,8 


Anu 

2 


T-Bad 


Sat-T 


*(Mer-S) 
Mar-T 


Scr 
9 


Vir 
7 


SAT-T 


11, 12 


S 


Asp - Jup, 3 


Asp - Ven, Mer, Moo, 7, 11, 2 


8th 


Sun-R 


5 LI 45 


7 


6 


Chi 
4 


T-Bad 


Rah-T 


*(Rah-T) 
-Ven-R 


Uta 
8 


Sco 
9 


Mar-T 


2,9 


7 


Con- Rah + Sun Asp- 2 


Con-Rah + Sun Asp - Ket, 2, 11, 3 


9th 


Moo-R 
-Y 


25 VI 19 


7 


5 


Chi 

1 


T-Bad 


Rah-T 


*(Rah-T) 
-Ven-R 


Uta 
3 


Leo 
6 


Mar-T 


2,9 


7 


Con - Mer Asp - 1 


Con-Ra + Su-As-Ke, 2, 11, 3 


R -RAJAS] 


[C, S- SATTVIK, T- TAMASIC - Y-YOGJ 


V Con= Co 


function, Asp= Astf 


«t 


*(in the star) 





CO 

o 



=0 
o 

Q 

o 

Co 



8 

I 

3 

CD 

CO 

Co 

s- 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 307 

The first general analysis based on the cusp position and 
its Drekkana and Amsha representation is given in the table -1. 
With the help of these tables we analyse the example horoscope. 

House: 

Lagna is Pisces and ft is in Uttama Drekkana. According to 
this system, if Lagna is in Uttama Drekkana over all life will be 
prosperous. 

This is true the native at present is well placed both 
professionally and personally. 

Scribes addition: It is in the Amsha of Capricorn 
which is 11 th house to Lagna. Which also speaks of 
profitable tendencies, being in Saturn Amsha progress 
as far as gain matters are concerned delayed. 

The authors did not prescribe to see the other houses due 
to the fact that they have not prescribed unequal division of 
houses. The scribe feels it is logical to have unequal division of 
houses especially when dealing with stellar system. Besides, 
one of the astrological principles is to treat every Bhava as Lagna 
and study its effect. Authenticated by these points the scribe is 
experimenting with the other houses taking the clue from the 
authors. 

2 nd House: 

Aries and it is in Sagittarius Drekkana which is 10 th house 
from Lagna. The money factor is linked to 10 th house that 
indicates the native has to earn money from profession. The 
lord Jupiter being also Lagna lord, it is clear that the native has 
to decide the course of money matter by his own efforts. It is in 
the Navamsa of Scorpio which is 9 th house from Lagna. It also 
supports distant travel and changes in profession. Mars is also 
lord of 2 nd and 9 th 9 th also involves government matters Mars 
relation to uniformed forces. The Native for some time earned 
money being in Air force. 



308 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



3 rd House: 

Taurus and it is in Capricorn Drekkana which is 11 th to Lagna. 
Native did go on short travels; he is enthusiastic does not flee 
away from risk factors. He has a sister; incidentally Capricorn is 
a female sign. It is in the Navamsa of Cancer which is 5 th house 
from Lagna. Being 3 rd to 3 rd and being a female sign it indicates 
cousin sisters which native has. It also indicate female progeny 
factors which is yet to be watched 

4 th house: 

Gemini it is in the Drekkana of Libra which is 8 th house 
from Lagna. This has made him to lose his mother early. It is in 
the Navamsa Pisces which is Lagna. The education and comfort 
levels are by self-efforts. 

5 th House: 

Cancer is in the Drekkana of Scorpio which is 9 th house 
from Lagna. He is religious and inclined towards powers of 
mantra. His progeny matters again are indicating female gender. 
It is in the Amsha of Scorpio which re-confirms above matters. 

6 th House: 

Leo is in the Uttama Drekkana falling in 10 th house. He is a 
hard worker. He does not have any debts. He purchased a vehicle 
on installments which he cleared fast He even plans to buy 
house without much bank loan. He is more careful about his 
health and maintains it. Amsha is in 5 th house Cancer which is 
actually a house of cure. He takes precaution even to smallest 
discomfort in health caused due to professional stress. 

7 th House: 

Virgo is in Uttama Drekkana 3 house of Venus. He has 
beautiful wife and good marital life. He cooperates with his 
wife. In his foreign journey he gets benefited. It is in the Amsha 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 309 



of of 5 th house, which indicates promise of female progeny again 
being linked to female signs. 

8 th House: 

Libra is in the Drekkana of Gemini the 4 th house from Lagna 
and it is in the Amsha of 3 rd which is 12 th to 4 th house. Native 
had to lose his mother. Being linked to 3 rd house native longevity 
is good. 

9 th House: 

Scorpio is in Drekkana of Cancer in 5 th house indicating 
royal favours and also benefits from distant places. It is in Amsha 
of Aquarius 12 th house. Native gains from visits to foreign places. 

10 th House: 

Sagittarius is in the Drekkana of Aries 2 nd house from Lagna 
and it is in Virgo Amsha 7 th house from Lagna. He earns through 
profession and it relates to foreign. The native is working for a 
foreign firm and had visited many times to US and still he has 
plans for further visits. His wife is also working. Virgo being 
house of commerce his activities are commercial in nature. 

11 th House: 

Capricorn is in the Drekkana of Taurus 3 rd house and Amsha 
also falls in same house. He benefits from his dashing efforts 
and gains from travel. His sister also well settled and benefited. 
He has good communication ability. He knows to conduct 
meetings and related programs. 

12 th House 

Aquarius is in Uttama Drekkana of falling in Gemini 4 th house. 
It is in the same Amsha of 12 th Aquarius. His expenditures are 
mostly on assets and do not get into wasteful expenditure. He 



310 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



is composed and sleeps well. His assets are guarded. He has 
good bed comfort from wife. 

This is an experimented house readings, which fits 
in very well with the native's life. 

Including all above the principles I have tabulated the 
information in a table which will give at a glance the effects of 
all the planets during their Dasha period with regard to the 
effects of Guna, Jeeva and Shareera, and stellar effects along 
with other traditional formulae. 

Dasha (the left or against planet indicate Satwa, Rajas, 
Tamo Guna): 



MAHA-DASHA 



Mars: Up to -1982-10-09 



Rah: From 1982-10-09 To - 2000-10-09 



CURRENT MAHA DASHA 



Jup: From 2000-10-09 To 2016-10-09 



Bhukti of Jupiter 



Jup: 2000-10-09 To 2002-11-26 



Sat: 2002-11-26 To 2005-06-07 



Merc: 2005-06-07 To 2007-09-15 



Ket: 2007-09-15 To 2006-09-21 



Ven: 2008-08-21 To 2011-04-19 



Sun: 2011-04-19 To 2012-02-06 



Moo: 2012-02-06 To 2013-06-07 



Mars: 2013-06-07 To 2014-05-13 



Rah: 2014-05-13 To 2016-10-09 



MAHA DAHSA 



Sat: From 2016-10-09 To 2035-10-10 



Merc: From 2035-10-10 To 2052-10-09 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 311 



Dasha-I 

Mars: Up to -09-10-1982 

Mars lord of 2 and 9 in 7: It is in the star of Rahu thus 
attains Tamasic Guna to give depressed results as Karaka. Mars 
is in Drekkana of Aquarius which falls in 12 th house from Lagna. 
For 2 nd and 9 th house Jeeva and Shareera are Rahu and Venus. 
Though there is friendship between these two planets, the Guna 
differs. Mars being exchanged gets linked to Venus and Mars 
has to give the results of 3 rd and 8 th house. Rahu which is posited 
in 7 th and the Shareera planet Venus who is lord of 3 and 8 
posited in 8 th house. Mars is conjunct with Rahu and Sun who is 
lord of 6 again posited in 7 th . 7 th is 4 th to 4 th , after birth the 
native was taken care by a maid. She used to carry him to 
other's house while she works for them. He was getting fed by 
the house members where the maid used to work. 12 th house is 
displacement. Later on he was put in baby-sitting center. Thus 
he was deprived of parental care during his child hood. 
Involvement of 3 rd house through aspect- of Karaka Mars to 3 rd 
house and again linking 3 rd house through exchange with Venus 
has resulted in birth of a sister to him during this period. Note 
the involvement of female sign and female planets for birth of 
sister. 

Dasha-II 

Rah: From 1982-10-09 to - 2000-10-09 

8 th house is represented by Rahu being in that sign. By 
Bhava position he is in 7 th . Saturn as Jeeva karaka and Moon as 
Shareera the 8 th house again indicates violence activities. Rahu 
getting the Tamasic nature the results are depressing nature. 

The native had disturbed educational progress, he wandered 
with foul friends. Rahu being conjunct Mars and Sun made him 
to work for military for very short period as Mars aspect his own 
house 2 nd and 11 th house. The effect of 12 th and 8 th house 



312 Roots of Naacfi Astrology; A Comprehensive Study 



worked against this activity and had to return back to study 
further which with great difficulty had to complete his graduation, 
there have been many side tracks in studies, like discontinued 
computer education, failure in other trade matters and smaller 
working experiences. It is because 7 th house happens to be 
10 th house to 10 th house and 7 th house indicates breaks in activity. 

CURRENT MAHA DASHA-3 

Both the houses 1 st and 10 get Rahu and Venus as Jeeva 
and Shareera. Jupiter as a karaka of 10 th house, being in Sun 
Star gets Rajasic Guna; this made him achieve growth in the 
native's activities. Houses 1 and 10 gets Rahu as Jeeva planet 
and Venus as Shareera planet, despite there is Guna of ignorance 
and passion, the friendship factor worked here. Houses 7, 8, 9, 
11 have given him foreign travels. Sun is not only Jeeva planet 
but also placed in Uttama Drekkana definitely helps the native 
for a good life during this period. Sun being lord 6 will cause 
health problems as 1 st lord is linked through Jupiter. 

Bhukti of Jupiter 

Jup: 2000-10-09 To 2002-11-26 

Jupiter is a yoga karaka for Pisces native: 

The effect of Guru Bhukti gave him a standard MNC Job for 
a long standing period and could get a promotion during this 
period. Sun conjunct with Rahu who indicates 4 th house matters. 
Guru by his position placed 12 th to 4 th house by sign. Guru has 
aspect on 3 rd and 8 th lord. Jupiter has aspect on Mercury who is 
lord of 4 th and 7 th . Jupiter also has aspect on Moon who is 
karaka for mother. Jupiter being lord of 10 th house becomes 
Maraka for 4 th house. This factor made him to lose his mother 
during this period. 

Sat: 2002-11-26 To 2005-06-07 

Saturn gets Satvik Guna and therefore, mixed results are 
expected during his period. Saturn indicates houses 11, 12, 5 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 2 313 

by lordship and occupation for this Mercury a Satvik planet 
becomes Jeeva planet that is linked to 4, 7, 7 and 1 st house. 
During this period he visited foreign countries on assignments. 
Tamasic effects of Rahu as Shareera planet resulted in health 
problems. 

Mer: 2005-06-07 To 2007-09-15 

Mercury representing houses 4, 7 and 1 st house and it's 
star lord Mars representing 2, 9, 7 and 3, 11 and Mercury being 
exalted, despite the Tamasic qualities involved, the native got 
married during this period and he had a foreign trip during this 
period. Though auspicious things have taken place during this 
period, there has been the effect of Tamasic quality attained by 
Mercury which resulted tensions in arranging the marriage of 
his sister (star lord representing 3 rd house and its 7 th house 9 th 
house and Mercury being in Amsha of Leo which is 6 th from 
Lagna). Immediately the couple had health problems and could 
not enjoy their honeymoon followed by temporary separation 
due to professional travel of the native. Apparently every event 
was good enough but the effects had their own dissatisfactions 
throughout the period. The effects of bad Guna of planets do 
not block the events but create unpleasantness in experiencing 
those results, 

Ket: 2007-09-15 To 2008-08-21 

Though there was increase in income, there have been 
hard work and ill health problems due to involvement of 6 th 
house, 1 st house. The planet being totally acquiring Tamasic 
nature is the main reason for ill health and distress situation in 

work. 

Ven: 2008-08-21 To 2011-04-19 

Planet Venus getting Mixed tatwa and being in the star of 
Saturn indicating 11 and 12 and 7 th linked to 3 rd and 8 th houses, 
there has no much professional growth and stagnant position 
with mental worries, and it gave change in job which again was 
not satisfactory. 



314 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Sun: 2011-04-19 To 2012-02-06 

Current Bhukti 

Sun being in Uttama Drekkana, in the star of Mars indicating 
2, 11, 3, 9, 7, & 6, turned the situation and the native got new 
employment with higher emoluments. However the Tamasic 
effect of Sun resulted in some health hazards. During this period 
the 3 rd house linking to 7 th house made his wife to resign from 
the job and pursue higher education. 

Moo: 2012-02-06 To 2013-06-07 

Next Bhukti is of Moon who is not only yoga karaka but 
also represents Uttama Drekkana for his signification of houses 
covering 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 5, 11, which includes the signification of 
star lord Mars. The results are evident with regard to progeny 
matters. 

Through this system of analysis we can not only pin down 
timing of event but also assess the quality of results. 

With high regard to both of the great authors, this chapter 
is concluded. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 315 



STELLAR BASED NAADI SYSTEM - METHOD-3 

We have seen that any deviation involving a divisional factor 
in comparison with standard horoscope analysis system is termed 
as Naadi. In the modern scholarly research work many have 
contributed to this stellar theory, C.G.Rajan, R.Gopala Krishna 
Rao, Sri Raghava Chary and last but not the least Late Professor 
K.S.Krishnamurti are some of the names which are commonly 
known in the field of stellar theory. 

Though most of them are stellar based, the system 
introduced by Professor K.S. Krishnamurti gained popularity 
across the world due to its brevity and standardization of 
horoscope analysis and favorite as KP. Despite the fact that is 
there is no system which ultimately yields 100% correct 
predictions, claims are high in KP analysis. Professor had vast 
knowledge of many classical works which he often quoted in 
his lectures recorded and shaped into books. 

Though it is in the format of a modern scholar it is completely 
based on the classical texts and the principles are not deviating 
from the standards prescribed by many outstanding works. We 
have seen in Dhruva Naadi the use of Nakshatra theory. Instead 
of using Nakshatra in deciding Tarabala, in KP Professor KSK 
divides the stellar zones and derives his predictive principles. 

Professor KSK claims his observation of Naadi readers 
prompted him to think the methodology used in the Naadi 
techniques and fill in the missing links. According to him the 
division of zodiac is the main criteria in Naadi technique and 
instead of following the existing method of divisional charts 
and the 150 divisions of Chandra Kala Naadi, he opted to divide 
the zodiac based on Dasha bhukti sequence and use its 
computational formula rightly establishes that he was within 
the ambit of prescribed rules of Sages. 



316 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



In his method he ruled out the traditional attributions of 
natural benefic and malefic qualities to planets and adopted 
functional benefic and malefic natures based on the stellar 
signification of houses by planets instead of planetary functional 
dignities as prescribed in traditional method. Any planet 
irrespective of its natural dignity if it signify 6, 8, 12 houses 
through its stellar disposition it is attributed as malefic planet 
and if it signify other houses it is attributed a benefic dignity. 
Apart from it a planet signifying badhaka house and planet 
signifying death houses 2 and 7 are considered dangerous as 
far as health and longevity are concerned and the house 12 th to 
a house selected for a matter is detrimental to that house. 

A set of houses consisting of more than two houses is 
responsible for a matter. The significators of these houses are 
dignified to give favorable or unfavorable results of that house. 
All the matters are judged by these sets of houses their 
fructification is attributed to significator. Professor then derived 
a formula to qualify the significator to give results during their 
Dasha bhukti periods. There is no specific independent Bhava 
Phala. The analysis of Bhava is through stellar lords. Due to this 
simple approach many fundamentals of classical approach 
became unwarranted. The unequal system of house division 
enables every Bhava to have a star and sub lord. The sub lord 
is pivotal in this system. Similarly all planetary position will 
indicate it's stellar and sub position. Professor KSK opted to the 
simplest format of division of stellar already existing and used it 
for static division of signs in the zodiac. The existing format of 
star division is illustrated below: 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 



317 



PISCES 


ARIES 


TAURUS 


GEMINI 


Revathi 


36050:00 


Ashwini 


13:20:00 


Krittto 


40:00:00 


Mfipsira 


66:40:00 


U.Bhadra 


346:40^0 


Bharani 


26:40:00 


Rohanf 


53:2050 


Ardra 


mmm 


P.Bhadra 


333:2050 


Krittika 


30:00:00 


Mrigaa'fa 


$0:0050 


Wasu 


9050:00 


AQUARIUS 


OBTRIBUTKWOF 27 STARS \H ZODIAC 


CANCER 


P.Bhadra 


330.00:00 


P.Vasru 


93:20:00 


Shatabisa 


320^X3:00 


Pushyamt 


106:4050 


Damshta 


306:40:00 


Asfesha 


120:0050 


Capricorn 


LEO 


Danishta 


300.-00:00 


Makha 


133:20:00 


Shravana 


293:2050 


P.Phat 


146:40:00 


U.Ashad 


2805050 


U.Phal 


150:0050 


SAGITTARIUS 


SCORPIO 


UBRA 


VIRGO 


U-Ashad 


2705050 


Jyestah 


240:00:00 


Vishakha 


210:00:00 


U.Phal 


160:00:00 


PAshad 


266:40:00 


Anuradha 


226:40:00 


Swati 


200:00:00 


Basta 


173:2053 


Mooia 


253:20:00 


Vishakha 


213:20:00 


Chitra 


186:40:00 


Chitra 


1S05050 



This existing star division is familiar to everybody and being 
used in all methods of astrology. The Vimshottari Dasha system 
of Sage Parasara is in the same sequence of Nakshatra shown 
above grouped into three zones by allotting the lordship to these 
Nakshatra exclusively for Vimshottari Dasha. 

The Divisions commences with zonal division of Zodiac. The 
stars of first four signs commencing from Aswini of Aries to 
Aslesha of Cancer having span of 120 degrees are allotted with 
the lordship of Planets and the next zone of 120 degrees 
commencing from Makah in Leo to Jyeshta in Scorpio is again 
allotted with the same planets of first zone and they are again 
repeated to the Last 120 zone commencing from Moola star in 
Sagittarius to Revathi in Pisces. The same is given below: 

Aswini-Makah-Moola Ketu 



Bharani-Pubba-RAshada 
Krittika-Uttara-U.Ashada 



Venus 

Sun 



318 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Rohini-Hasta-Shravana 
Mrigasira-Chitta-Dhanishta 
Ardra-Swati-Satabisa 
Punarvasu-Visakha-P.Bhadra 



Moon 
Mars 
Rahu 
Jupiter 



Pushyami-Anurada-U.Bhadra Saturn 

Aslesha-Jyeshta-Revathi Mercury 

"(Imp: Do you know that these allotments of lordship are 
again based on astronomical orbital sequence of planets?)" 

The simplest concept is to perceive interchanged places of 
Earth and Sun and then match that visual perception keeping 
earth as center of Galaxy and visualize all other celestial objects 
are orbiting the earth while stars are fixed. If the above order 
of planets is arranged as per perceived concept the visual effect 
would be: 




Sun the king of galaxy goes round the earth is the first 
planet influencing earth on daily basis. Therefore, the first planet 
is taken as Sun, next from right to left upward Moon rotating 
earth and then to the left upward, the Mars in the external side 
of earth. After Mars the reverse influencing force of Rahu a 
creation of Moon's orbit is considered. Jupiter is the next planet 
in that order then planet Saturn is the last planet in the external 
orbital zones and completes the left upward sequence. On right 
upwards the internal zone first planet is Mercury then the again 
on the other side of influential zone of Moon's orbit Ketu is 
considered and lastly the orbit of Venus in the internal zone 
towards right to left upward is considered. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 319 

Not only the order ofDasha but also the entire astrology is 
based on this visual perception of interchanged positions of 
Sun and Earth. 

This system of allotting planets to stars based on 
astronomical orbital order is a grand observational feat used by 
Sages in creating structured astrological foundations with which 
Macro spectrum "Rashi-chakra", "Lagna" and Micro spectrum 
"Shodasha-Amsha" and other sensitive points were created. 

Nonetheless, modern scholar Professor KSK not deviating 
from this grandeur, improvised logical Dasha strategy and 
extended it to create sensitive points in zodiac and cosmically 
prized for this scholarly efforts by his deity Ucchista Ganapathi) 

The 120 degrees zone consisting of nine planets, each planet 
representing a star span of 13' 20" is allotted number of years 
as Dasha period. 

Aswini-Makah-Moola Ketu-13:20:00- 7 years 

Bharani-Pubba-P.Ashada Venus-13:20:00 -20 years 

Krittika-Uttara-U.Ashada Sun-13:20:00- 6 years 

Rohini-Hasta-Shravana Moon-13:20:00-10 years 

Mrigasira-Chitta-Dhanishta Mars-13:20:00- 7 years 

Ardra-Swati-Satabisa Rahu- 13:20:00- 18 years 

Punarvasu-Visakha-P.Bhadra Jupiter-13:20:00- 16 years 

Pushyami-Anurada-U.Bhadra Saturn-13:20:00- 19 years 

Aslesha-Jyeshta-Revathi Mercury-13:20:00- 17 years 

This is unilaterally accepted dictum from Sage Parasara. A 
zone of 120 degrees are divided into 120 years and allotted to 
planets as shown above. 

The advantage of KP is that every house has its cusp falling 
in a star due to fact that this system adopts the western concept 
of house division based on Placidus. This system is widely used 
in modern astrology especially in the western system. In this 



320 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

system, elliptical position is captured for an epoch moment 
trigonometrically, locate the cusp of houses 1, 2, 3, 11 and 12 
and mid haven and degrees are marked. Exactly at 180 degrees 
to these houses the cusps of houses 7, 8, 9, 5, 6 and 4 are 
located. This system of house was introduced by a Professor of 
mathematics named Placidus. 

This adaptation presumably influenced or equated by the 
Indian traditional system with slight modifications propounded 
by a great scholar called Sripathi, His system is known to be the 
best computational encyclopedia for traditional astrology and is 
called Sripathi Paddati. Wanting further precision Professor KSK 
migrated from traditional computation and advocated western 
Placidus system. In this system of houses, a house can spread 
across two houses thus getting two planets ruling one house 
while two houses may get single lordship. One house may get 
single sign qualities or two houses may get one sign qualities. 

Dasha period representing star span in degrees are located 
as static celestial points dividing the orbital path of planets in to 
three zones of 120 degrees span which is taken as maximum 
120 years of human life. This is a logical interpretation of allotting 
a year for a degree. This concept also found in Naadi texts 
while rotating a planet in transit to delineate the effects of the 
planet in each year. First zone comprises of Aries, Taurus, Gemini 
and Cancer covering the first set of nine stars ruled by planets 
as stated above. The second set of stars having same planets 
ruling is covered from Leo to Scorpio. Finally from Sagittarius to 
Pisces the 3 rd set of stars are covered with same ruling planets. 

Any celestial coordinate be it a reference point as static 
zone like house and or dynamic planetary positions for particular 
time of epoch should fall in in any of these three star zones and 
in the star span 13:20:00 degrees ruled by a star planet. 

This is the basic constructive principle of KP. The houses 
computed which fall in a particular star portion is called Cusp. 
The Dynamic planet noted for a particular moment in a star is 
known as significator of that star lord's dignities. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 



321 



Suppose if Lagna falls in 44 degrees it means that the Lagna 
falls in Taurus sign in the star of Moon. That is ascendant cusp 
is in the star of Moon. This being a static zone for Dasha lord 
Moon, the ascendant has the static effect of Moon by his natural 
quality and also links statically the house owned by Moon that 
is 3 rd house. The quality of the ascendant is now assessed based 
on the sign quality which is Taurus which is fixed sign having 
earth quality and ruled by Venus and duly modified by nature of 
Moon and his 3 rd house signification. This type of house analysis 
is applicable to all the other 11 houses involving the qualities of 
sign lord, modified by the cusp representing the star lord his 
qualities and the houses owned by that lord. 



tf 


TAURUS £\ 


Krittika 

30 
Rohini 

40 

Mrigsira 
53.2 


o 

40 
rati 53.2 

<? 

60 



In order to assess the good or bad effect of these houses 
Professor KSK advocates the house compatibility. The 
signification of houses and planets remain the same. However, 
the most creditable research work of KSK is the grouping of 
houses for an event. All the matters of life are grouped in to 
more than two houses signifying the allied relationship with an 
event. 

For this purpose he uses the Dharma Artha, Kama and 
Moksha qualification of houses with modifications to match the 
requirement of the houses. 



322 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Houses 1, 5, 9 are Dharma houses. Professor KSK uses 
these houses in the sense of effortless significations negating 
effortful houses. 

Houses 2, 6, 10 are Artha houses. Professor KSK attributes 
value additions, efforts and professional activities and material 
benefits to these houses. Earlier said Dharma houses falls in 
12 th to these material houses therefore they negate the Artha 
houses of material nature. 

Houses 3, 7, 11 are Kama houses that is, house of 
Agreement, association and desire fulfillments this set is used 
both as negating and supporting matters in relation to houses 
of Dharma and Artha. 

Houses 4, 8, 12 are Moksha houses this has eliminating 
factors to be used both positive effects and negative effects of 
all the above groups. 

Considering the metaphysical and material contents in house 
matter the grouping is expertly done by Professor KSK keeping 
in view the requirement of Modern society. 

Longevity is denoted by three houses 1, 3, 8. Self, 
enthusiasm and daring to overcome adversities denote the 
energy of life. Thus these houses are judged for Longevity 

Education is denoted by 4 th house, higher education by 9 th 
house, 3 rd is inclination of mind and thus these houses coupled 
with desire fulfillment house 11 th are together studied. 

Profession is 10 th house and 2 nd is Money and 6 th is efforts 
and this will give the professional indications coupled with 11 th 
house of fulfillments, this stands best to give professional and 
monetary benefits. 

Marriage is coupled with addition to family 2, 7 th partner, 
11 th is desire fulfillment. These houses are studied for marital 
matters. 

Children are studied again from addition to family, 2, 5 th 
progeny and 11 th fulfillments 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 323 



Assets indicated by 4 th house of comforts, 2 nd is additions, 
11 th is fulfillments. 

He has grouped several houses indicating many matters 
including litigation, partnership, court cases, theft etc. by using 
the respective houses and the related houses supporting the 
significations. 

Any house which is 12 th to a house negates the required 
significations. For example for marital life houses 1, 6, 10 are 
detrimental as they are 12 th to 2, 7, and 11 

This is the basic consideration and houses 6, 8 from a house 
also considered detrimental to a given matter. 

If 7 th cusp falls in a star of a planet who in turn holds the 
lordship of 6 th house indicates negating the marital matters. 

House division and subs: 

At star level a house may indicate generalized matters. A 
house is to be restricted to a particular reference point in order 
to specifically indicate certain matters of house. Professor KSK 
having used stellar Dasha division now maintains the symmetry 
for further division on the same line as bhukti division to Dasha 
and used this excellent tool for division of zodiac into sub divisions 
in order to specify the finer point of a house. Normal computation 
of Dasha sub division into bhukti gives 9x9 =81 subs in in 
zone of 120 degrees amounting to 243 divisions of bhukti for all 
the three zones. 



324 



Rotffcs of Na&di A&tr&kifgy: A Co^pr^oemb/e Studfy 



Mesha to Karka 


Siirihato SGorpio 


Sagittarius to 
Pisces 


ASWNi-MAKHA-MOOLA 


MRIGASIRA-CHITTA-DHAN 


SHTA 


K 


V 


S JM {Mr 1 R 


J 


ST 


ME 


Mr! R 


J 


ST 


ME 


K I V 


S 


M 


1 


2 


3 j 4 I 5 1 6 


7 


3 


9 


37J33 


39 


40 


41 


42 j 43 


44 


45 


BHARAr^PUBBA-PJlSHADA 


AR0RA*SWATI-SATABiSA 


V 


S 


M 


Mr 


R 


J 


ST 


ME 


K 


R 


J 


ST ME 


K 


V 


S 


M 


Mr 


10 


11 


12 


13 


14 


15 


16 


17 


18 


46 


47 


48 


49 


50 


21 


62 


63 


54 


KR1TTIKA-UTTARAUASH 


ADA 


P.VA SIM/I SAKHA-P3HAORA 


S 


Ml Mr 


R 


J 


ST 


ME 


K 


V 


J 


ST 


ME 


K j V 


S 


M 


Mr 


R 


19 


20 1 21 


22 


23 


24 


25 


26 


27 


55 


56 


57 


58(59 


60 


61 


62 


63 


ROHIW-HASTA-SHRAVANA 


PUSHYAMI-ANURADA-tKBHADRA 


M 


Mr 


R 


J 


ST 


ME 


K 


V 


S 


ST 


ME 


K 


V 


S 


M 


Mr 


R 


J 


23 


29 


30 


32 


32 


33 


34 


36 


36 


64 


65 


66 


67 


68 


69 


70 


71 


72 


ASLESHA4YESH 


TAREVATMI 


MULTIPLIED BY 3* 243 SUBS | 


ME 


K J V 


S |M 


Mr 


R 


4 1ST 


73 


74 75 


76 |77 


78 


79 


80 j 81 





















The 22 nd sub sections pertaining to star Krittika, Uttara and 
U.Ashada represented by Rahu spilled over to next signs. 
Similarly the 61 st sub sections represented by Moon pertaining 
to star Punarvasu, Visakha, and RBhadra spilled over to next 
signs. Thus Rahu and Moon each of them get extra 1 sub in the 
subsequent signs in a zone of 120 degrees. In three zones each 
of them 3 subs. Thus extra 6 subs accumulated to original 
divisions 243 bhukti making it 249 subs. 

This divisional concept of Bhukti into 249 sub areas in the 
zodiac is an excellent concept of Professor KSK which he himself 
expresses as an intuitional experiment to match the Naadi 
readings minutely. This will enable a house matter to be precisely 
assessed. Earlier the star planet would either support or negate 
the significations of houses is now being transferred to sub 
level and the star level is restricted to signifying results of the 
house. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 



325 



The above example of Taurus ascendant is extended to 
sub level position as shown below: 




y TAURUS p 




SUB LORD LEVEL 



Krittika 
30 



Rohini 



O 

XL 



40 



40 53.2 

Up to Moo-41:06:40-Sub 
Mar-41:53:20 Sub 
Rah-43:53:20Sub 






Jup-45:40:00-SUB 



Sat-47:46:00-Sub 
Mer-49:40:00-Sub 
Ket-50:26:40-Sub 
Ven-52:41;00-Sub 
Sun-53:20:00-Sub 
Mrigsira ^P^ 



53.2 



60 



Lord of 3 



Lord of 
8,11 



With this, the ascendant now has the relationship of 3 rd 
house due to lordship of Moon over the house and which is 
being the star lord of the Ascendant and being in the sub of 
Jupiter it links to houses 8 and 11. The Ascendant is now linked 



326 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

to houses 3, 8, 11. This indicates, the Ascendant is quite strong 
with regard to Longevity matters, and it is also indicating that 
gains by selling of assets or sudden gains through brokerage. It 
also indicates chronic diseases linked with upper respiratory 
problems Moon and Jupiter being Kapha planets it may cause 
him Lungs or Asthma problems, 11 th house also linked through 
Jupiter therefore cure by medication is also indicated. 

In his works while giving the significance of each sub 
Professor KSK, takes the natural signification of planets to 
consider the effect of each sign and sparingly uses the star and 
sub lord house representations. This part of the text is most 
important in KP system which needs an expansion in relation to 
houses represented by star and sub. 

This static analysis of Bhava, changes with the dynamic 
planetary positions. If a planet posited in the star of Moon 
anywhere in the chart will activate the 3 rd house and the first 
house. If it is in the star of Sun or Mars, will not affect the first 
house but instead affect the houses connected with Sun or 
Mars that is 4 th or 7 th and 12 th as the case may be. If it is in the 
Sub of Moon being in either Sun or Mars then the link of Lagna 
is also considered. 

This is the static house analysis and the effect of each house 
explained in detail in the original works of Professor KSK. 

The principle of delineation is framed into set of rules. The 
core concept behind framing such rule is explained here which 
is not found in any other KP works and not even mentioned in 
the original texts of Professor KSK. 

Before that I give the entire 249 subs. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 








327 




Aries - -30 


Aswini 


Bharani 


Krittika 


0- 13:20 


13:20 - 26:40 


26:40- 30:00 


Ketu 


Venus 


Sun 


0:00:00 


1 


Ket 


13:20:00 


10 


Ven 


26:40:00 


19 


Sun 


0:46:40 


2 


Ven 


15:33:20 


11 


Sun 


27:20:00 


20 


Moo 


3:00:00 


3 


Sun 


16:13:20 


12 


Moo 


28:26:40 


21 


Mar 


3:40:00 


4 


Moo 


17:20:00 


13 


Mar 


29:13:20 


22 


Rah 


4:46:40 


5 


Mar 


18:06:40 


14 


Rah 








5:33:20 


6 


Rah 


20:06:40 


15 


Jup 








7:33:20 


7 


Jup 


21:53:20 


16 


Sat 








9:20:00 


8 


Sat 


24:00:00 


17 


Mer 








11:26:40 


9 


Mer 


25:53:00 


18 


Ket 








Taurus-0-60 


Krittika 


Rohini 


Mrigasira 


0-10:00 


10-23:20:00 


23:20:00-30 


Sun 


Moo 


Mar 


0:00:00 


23 


Rah 


10:00:00 


29 


Moo 


23:20:00 


38 


Mar 


1:13:20 


24 


Jup 


11:06:40 


30 


Mar 


24:06:40 


39 


Rah 


3:00:00 


25 


Sat 


11:53:20 


31 


Rah 


26:06:40 


40 


Jup 


5:06:40 


26 


Mer 


13:53:20 


32 


Jup 


27:53:20 


41 


Sat 


7:00:00 


27 


Ket 


15:40:00 


33 


Sat 








7:46:40 


28 


Ven 


17:46:00 


34 


Mer 














19:40:00 


35 


Ket 














20:26:40 


36 


Ven 














22:40:00 


37 


Sun 









328 




Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehe 


insive Study 




Gemini 60-90 


Mrigasira 


Aridra 


Punarvasu 


0-6:40 


6:40-20:00 


20:00 -30:00 


Mar 


Rah 


Jup 


0:00:00 


42 


Mer 


6:40:00 


47 


Rah 


20:00:00 


56 


Jup 


1:53:20 


43 


Ket 


8:40:00 


48 


Jup 


21:46:40 


57 


5at 


2:40:00 


44 


Ven 


10:26:40 


49 


Sat 


23:53:20 


58 


Mer 


4:53:20 


45 


Sun 


12:33:20 


50 


Mer 


25:46:40 


59 


Ket 


5:33:20 


46 


Moo 


14:26:40 


51 


Ket 


26:33:20 


60 


Ven 








15:13:20 


52 


Ven 


28:46:40 


61 


5un 








17:26:40 


53 


Sun 


29:26:40 


62 


Moo 








18:06:40 


54 


Moo 














19:13:20 


55 


Mar 








Cancer- 90-120 


Punarvasu 


Pushyami 


Aslesha 


0-3:20 


3:20-16:40 


16:40-30:00 


Jup 


Sat 


Mer 


0:00:00 


63 


Moo 


3:20:00 


66 


Sat 


16:40:00 


75 


Mer 


0:33:20 


64 


Mar 


5:26:40 


67 


Mer 


18:33:20 


76 


Ket 


1:20:00 


65 


Rah 


7:20:00 


68 


Ket 


19:20:00 


77 


Ven 








8:06:40 


69 


Ven 


21:33:20 


78 


Sun 








10:20:00 


70 


Sun 


22:13:20 


79 


Moo 








11:00:00 


71 


Moo 


23:20 


80 


Mar 








12:05:40 


72 


Mar 


24:06:40 


81 


Rah 








12:53:20 


73 


Rah 


26:06:40 


82 


Jup 








14:53:20 


74 


Jup 


27:53:20 


83 


Sat 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 








329 




Leo - 120-150 


Makha 


Purva Phalguni 


Uttaraphalguni 


0- 13:20 


13:20-26:40 


26:40* 30:00 


Ketu 


Venus 


Sun 


0:00:00 


83 


Ket 


13:20:00 


93 


Ven 


26:40:00 


102 


Sun 


0:46:40 


85 


Ven 


15:33:20 


94 


Sun 


27:20:00 


103 


MOO 


3:00:00 


86 


Sun 


16:13:20 


95 


Moo 


28:26:40 


104 


Mar 


3:40:00 


87 


Moo 


17:20:00 


96 


Mar 


29:13:20 


105 


Rah 


4:46:40 


88 


Mar 


18:06:40 


97 


Rah 








5:33:20 


89 


Rah 


20:06:40 


98 


Jup 








7:33:20 


90 


Jup 


21:53:20 


99 


Sat 








9:20:00 


91 


Sat 


24:00:00 


100 


Mer 








11:26:40 


92 


Mer 


25:53:00 


101 


Ket 








Virgo-lSO-180 


Uttaraphalguni 


Hasta 


Chitta 


0-10:00 


10-23:20:00 


23:20:00-30 


Sun 


Moo 


Mar 


0:00:00 


106 


Rah 


10:00:00 


112 


MOO 


23:20:00 


121 


Mar 


1:13:20 


107 


Jup 


11:06:40 


113 


Mar 


24:06:40 


122 


Rah 


3:00:00 


108 


Sat 


11:53:20 


114 


Rah 


26:06:40 


123 


Jup 


5:06:40 


109 


Mer 


13:53:20 


115 


Jup 


27:53:20 


124 


Sat 


7:00:00 


110 


Ket 


15:40:00 


116 


Sat 








7:46:40 


111 


Ven 


17:46:00 


117 


Mer 














19:40:00 


118 


Ket 














20:26:40 


119 


Ven 














22:40:00 


120 


Sun 









330 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 





Libra-180-210 


Chitta 


Swathi 


Visakha 


0-6:40 


6:40-20:00 


20:00 -30:00 


Mar 


Rah 


Jup 


0:00:00 


125 


Mer 


6:40:00 


130 


Rah 


20:00:00 


139 


Jup 


1:53:20 


126 


Ket 


8:40:00 


131 


Jup 


21:46:40 


140 


Sat 


2:40:00 


127 


Ven 


10:26:40 


132 


Sat 


23:53:20 


141 


Mer 


4:53:20 


128 


Sun 


12:33:20 


133 


Mer 


25:46:40 


142 


Ket 


5:33:20 


129 


Moo 


14:26:40 


134 


Ket 


26:33:20 


143 


Ven 








15:13:20 


135 


Ven 


28:46:40 


144 


Sun 








17:26:40 


136 


Sun 


29:26:40 


145 


Moo 








18:06:40 


137 


Moo 














19:13:20 


138 


Mar 








Scorpio 210- 240 


Visakha 


Anurada 


Jyeshta 


0-3:20 


3:20-16:40 


16:40-30:00 


Jup 


Sat 


Mer 


0:00:00 


146 


Moo 


3:20:00 


149 


Sat 


16:40:00 


158 


Mer 


0:33:20 


L47£ 


Mar 


5:26:40 


150 


Mer 


18:33:20 


159 


Ket 


1:20:00 


148 


Rah 


7:20:00 


151 


Ket 


19:20:00 


160 


Ven 








8:06:40 


152 


Ven 


21:33:20 


161 


Sun 








10:20:00 


153 


Sun 


22:13:20 


162 


Mpo 








11:00:00 


154 


Moo 


23:20 


163 


Mar 








12:05:40 


155 


Mar* 


24:06:40 


164 


Rah 








12:53:20 


156 


Rah 


26:06:40 


165 


Jup 








14:53:20 


157 


Jup 


27:53:20 


166 


Sat 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 








331 




Sagittarius - 240-270 


Moola 


Poorvashadha 


Uttarashadha 


0- 13:20 


13:20 - 26:40 


26:40- 30:00 


Ketu 


Venus 


Sun 


0:00:00 


167 


Ket 


13:20:00 


176 


Ven 


26:40:00 


185 


Sun 


0:46:40 


168 


Ven 


15:33:20 


177 


Sun 


27:20:00 


186 


Moo 


3:00:00 


169 


Sun 


16:13:20 


178 


Moo 


28:26:40 


187 


Mar 


3:40:00 


170 


Moo 


17:20:00 


179 


Mar 


29:13:20 


188 


Rah 


4:46:40 


171 


Mar 


18:06:40 


180 


Rah 








5:33:20 


172 


Rah 


20:06:40 


181 


Jup 








7:33:20 


173 


Jup 


21:53:20 


182 


Sat 








9:20:00 


174 


Sat 


24:00:00 


183 


Mer 








11:26:40 


175 


Mer 


25:53:00 


184 


Ket 








Ca pricorn- 270-300 


Uttarashadha 


Shravana 


Dhanishta 


0-10:00 


10-23:20:00 


23:20:00-30 


Sun 


Moo 


Mar 


0:00:00 


189 


Rah 


10:00:00 


195 


Moo 


23:20:00 


204 


Mar 


1:13:20 


190 


Jup 


11:06:40 


196 


Mar 


24:06:40 


205 


Rah 


3:00:00 


191 


Sat 


11:53:20 


197 


Rah 


26:06:40 


206 


Jup 


5:06:40 


192 


Mer 


13:53:20 


198 


Jup 


27:53:20 


207 


Sat 


7:00:00 


193 


Ket 


15:40:00 


199 


Sat 








7:46:40 


194 


Ven 


17:46:00 


200 


Mer 














19:40:00 


201 


Ket 














20:26:40 


202 


Ven 














22:40:00 


203 


Sun 









332 




Roofs of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 




Aquarius -300-330 


Dhanishta 


Shatabhisha 


Purva Bhadra 


0-6:40 


6:40-20:00 


20:00 -30:00 


Mar 


Rah 


Jup 


0:00:00 


208 


Mer 


6:40:00 


213 


Rah 


20:00:00 


222 


Jup 


1:53:20 


209 


Ket 


8:40:00 


214 


Jup 


21:46:40 


223 


Sat 


2:40:00 


210 


Ven 


10:26:40 


215 


Sat 


23:53:20 


224 


Mer 


4:53:20 


211 


Sun 


12:33:20 


216 


Mer 


25:46:40 


225 


Ket 


5:33:20 


212 


Moo 


14:26:40 


217 


Ket 


26:33:20 


226 


Ven 








15:13:20 


218 


Ven 


28:46:40 


227 


Sun 








17:26:40 


219 


Sun 


29:26:40 


228 


Moo 








18:06:40 


220 


Moo 














19:13:20 


221 


Mar 








Pisces-330-360 


Purva Bhadra 


Uttara Bhadra 


Revathi 


0-3:20 


3:20-16:40 


16:40-30:00 


Jup 


Sat 


Mer 


0:00:00 


229 


Moo 


3:20:00 


232 


Sat 


16:40:00 


241 


Mer 


0:33:20 


230 


Mar 


5:26:40 


233 


Mer 


18:33:20 


242 


Ket 


1:20:00 


231 


Rah 


7:20:00 


234 


Ket 


19:20:00 


243 


Ven 








8:06:40 


234 


Ven 


21:33:20 


244 


Sun 








10:20:00 


236 


Sun 


22:13:20 


245 


Moo 








11:00:00 


236 


Moo 


23:20 


246 


Mar 


, 






12:05:40 


238 


Mar 


24:06:40 


247 


Rah 






i 


12:53:20 


239 


Rah 


26:06:40 


248 


Jup 








14:53:20 


240 


Jup \ 


27:53:20 


249 


Sat 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 323 

It is evident that all the cusp of 12 houses must fall within 
the star and 249 sub ranges. Similarly the dynamic planetary 
position should also fall in any of the star and sub ranges. 

The house system is based on Placidus and therefore you 
get each house with specific degree minutes and seconds. Since 
the zodiac is divided into three zones of stars ruled by nine 
planets every house must fall in the star represented by a planet. 
The division is sub divided again by nine planets falling in unequal 
division forming 249 sub areas. Therefore, a house must again 
fall in a particular sub. The house is a space division reckoned 
from the birth epoch. This epoch should also have the records 
of dynamic celestial bodies that are nine planets. Striking the 
momentum at that particular time of event, these dynamic 
planets should also fall in a star and sub in the static area of 
zones. Thus all the twelve static houses and nine dynamic planets 
should occupy a star and a sub. The star is a signification factor, 
the planet is a signifying agent and equally the sub also a static 
zonal point equated with dynamic planet and through its star 
establishes the relationship with the significations of either a 
planet or a house. Every star area of the zodiac is a signifying 
zones and sub area is static area equated with a dynamic planet. 

This is the core concept hidden in KP system. This can be 
clearly understood by an illustration. 



332 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 





Aquarius -300-330 


Dhanishta 


Shatabhisha 


Purva Bhadra 


0-6:40 


6:40-20:00 


20:00 -30:00 


Mar 


Rah 


Jup 


0:00:00 


208 


Mer 


6:40:00 


213 


Rah 


20:00:00 


222 


Jup 


1:53:20 


209 


Ket 


8:40:00 


214 


Jup 


21:46:40 


223 


Sat 


2:40:00 


210 


Ven 


10:26:40 


215 


Sat 


23:53:20 


224 


Mer 


4:53:20 


211 


Sun 


12:33:20 


216 


Mer 


25:46:40 


225 


Ket 


5:33:20 


212 


Moo 


14:26:40 


217 


Ket 


26:33:20 


226 


Ven 








15:13:20 


218 


Ven 


28:46:40 


227 


Sun 








17:26:40 


219 


Sun 


29:26:40 


228 


Moo 








18:06:40 


220 


Moo 














19:13:20 


221 


Mar 








Pisces-330-360 


Purva Bhadra 


Uttara Bhadra 


Revathi 


0-3:20 


3:20-16:40 


16:40-30:00 


Jup 


Sat 


Mer 


0:00:00 


229 


Moo 


3:20:00 


232 


Sat 


16:40:00 


241 


Mer 


0:33:20 


230 


Mar 


5 -.26:40 


233 


Mer 


18:33:20 


242 


Ket 


1:20:00 


231 


Rah 


7:20:00 


234 


Ket 


19:20:00 


243 


Ven 








8:06:40 


234 


Ven 


21:33:20 


244 


Sun 








10:20:00 


236 


Sun 


22:13:20 


245 


Moo 








11:00:00 


236 


Moo 


23:20 


246 


Mar 


> 






12 :05 -.40 


238 


Mar 


24:06:40 


247 


Rah 






i 


12:53:20 


239 


Rah 


26:06:40 


248 


Jup 








14:53:20 


240 


Jup 


27:53:20 


249 


Sat 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 333 

It is evident that all the cusp of 12 houses must fall within 
the star and 249 sub ranges. Similarly the dynamic planetary 
position should also fall in any of the star and sub ranges. 

The house system is based on Placidus and therefore you 
get each house with specific degree minutes and seconds. Since 
the zodiac is divided into three zones of stars ruled by nine 
planets every house must fall in the star represented by a planet. 
The division is sub divided again by nine planets falling in unequal 
division forming 249 sub areas. Therefore, a house must again 
fall in a particular sub. The house is a space division reckoned 
from the birth epoch. This epoch should also have the records 
of dynamic celestial bodies that are nine planets. Striking the 
momentum at that particular time of event, these dynamic 
planets should also fall in a star and sub in the static area of 
zones. Thus all the twelve static houses and nine dynamic planets 
should occupy a star and a sub. The star is a signification factor, 
the planet is a signifying agent and equally the sub also a static 
zonal point equated with dynamic planet and through its star 
establishes the relationship with the significations of either a 
planet or a house. Every star area of the zodiac is a signifying 
zones and sub area is static area equated with a dynamic planet. 

This is the core concept hidden in KP system. This can be 
clearly understood by an illustration. 



334 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 




SUB LORD LEVEL 



Krittika 
30 



Rohini 



o 



40 



40 53.2 

Up to Moo-41:06:40-Sub 
Mar-41:53:20 Sub 
Rah-43:53:20 Sub 






Jup-45:40:00-SUB 



Sat-47:46:00-Sub 
Mer-49:40:00-Sub 
Ket-50:26:40-5ub 
Ven-52:41:00-Sub 
Sun-53:20:00-Sub 
Mrigsira f*PI 



53.2 



60 



Lord of 3 



Lord of 
8,11 



In the left hand side the star zones are indicated Krittika 
relating to Sun, Rohini for Moon, and Mrigasira for Mars. For 
Taurus Ascendant the Ascendant fall in Rohini star that is Moon 
who is the 3 rd lord and in this example case we are concerned 
with the lord ship of Moon (and we have to take dynamic position 
of Moon in the practical chart and take that house also into 
account). The Ascendant is linked to 3 rd house through its star 
level. Now the ascendant being in 44:00:00 falls in a static sub 
division of Jupiter who is a lord of 8, 11. Ifthereisnostarinthe 
star of Jupiter then Jupiter links houses 8, 11 directly. If there is 
a planet in the star of Jupiter then we have to see the star 
position of Jupiter and find out the lordship and position of this 
star lord as signifying houses of Jupiter and consider its linking 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 335 



factor to ascendant. At the star level signification it is the linking 
of 3 rd house to first house giving a clue about longevity factor 
and in this example case Jupiter as sub lord (considering not 
having any planet in its star) linking 8 th house adds up strength 
to the signifying longevity. The ascendant is strong as far as 
longevity mattes are concerned as there is harmony between 
the signification of sub and the star to that of matter signified 
by ascendant However Professor KSK hints at the star level 
activation for each of the ascendant in a nutshell as given below. 

The set of nine stars spreading over three zones are 
considered for prediction in each of ascendant. 

For ascendants Aswini, Makha, Moola represented by Ketu 
and Ardra, Swati and Satabisa of Rahu have not explained as 
they do not own any houses and they are to be judged based 
on their position in the individual horoscopes. 

For Aries Ascendant Bharani, Pubba, P.Ashada is represented 
by Venus and Venus is the lord of 2 and 7 for Aries, 1 and 6 for 
Taurus, 5 and 12 for Gemini, 4 and 11 for Cancer, 3 and 10 for 
Leo and 2 and 9 for Virgo, 1 and 8 for Libra, 7 and 12 for 
Scorpio, 6 and 11 for Sagittarius, 5 and 10 for Capricorn, 4 and 
9 for Aquarius and 3 and 8 for Pisces ascendant (drifting of 
cusps may alter houses). Venus may also by his position occupy 
certain house. Therefore, during the Dasha and transit periods 
of a planet posited in these three stars or the sub of Venus will 
activate the houses governed by Venus respectively for 12 
Ascendant. 

Krittika, Uttara and U.Ashada are the stars of Sun who holds 
the 5 th lordship to Aries, 4 th to Taurus, 3 rd Gemini, 2 nd to Cancer, 
1 st to Leo, 12 th to Virgo, 11 th to Libra, 10 th to Scorpio, 9 th to 
Sagittarius, 8 th to Capricorn, 7 th to Aquarius, 6 th to Pisces. Sun 
may also represent a house by his occupation to any of the 
ascendant During the period of a planet posited in any of the 
three stars of Sun, houses represented by Sun will be activated. 

Rohini, Hasta and Shravana are the stars of Moon who will 
be 4 th lord for Aries, 3 rd lord to Taurus, 2 nd Lord to Gemini, 1 st to 



336 Roots ofNaadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Cancer, 12 th to Leo, 11 th to Virgo, 10 th Libra, 9 th to Scorpio, 8 th 
to Sagittarius, 7 th to Capricorn, 6 th to Aquarius, 5 th to Pisces and 
he may occupy any one of the houses in the respective 
ascendants. A planet during its period of Dasha and transit being 
in the star of Moon will activate the houses governed by it. 

Mrigasira, Chitta and Dhanishta are the stars of Mars donning 
the lordship of 1 st and 8 th to Aries, 7 th and 12 th to Taurus, 6 th 
and 11 th to Gemini, 5 th and 10 th to Cancer, 4 th and 9 th to Leo, 3 rd 
and 8 th to Virgo, 2 nd and 7 th to Libra, 1 st and 6 th to Scorpio, 5 th 
and 12 th to Sagittarius, 4 th and 11 th to Capricorn, 3 rd and 10 th to 
Aquarius, 2 nd and 9 th lordship to Pisces Ascendants- He may 
also occupy any one of the houses in the respective ascendants. 
Planets in the three stars of Mars, during their Dasha and transit 
activate the houses governed by Mars. 

Punarvasu, Visakha, P.Bhadra are the stars of Jupiter who 
owns 9 th and 12 th lordship to Aries Ascendant, 8 th and 11 th 
lordship to Taurus, 7 th and 10 th to Gemini, 6 th and 9 th to Cancer, 
5 th and 8 th to Leo, 4 th and 7 th to Virgo, 3 rd and 6 th lordship to 
Libra, 2 nd and 5 th lordship to Scorpio, 1 st and 4 th lordship to 
Sagittarius, 3 rd and 12 th Lorship to Capricorn, 2 nd and 11 th to 
Aquarius, 1 st and 10 th lordship to Pisces Ascendant and he may 
occupy any one of these houses in the respective ascendant. 
Any planet posited in the three stars of Jupiter will activate the 
houses governed by Jupiter during the Dasha and transit period 
of the planet posited in the Jupiter star. 

Pusyami, Anurada, U.Bhadra are the stars of Saturn. Saturn 
is the lord of 10 th and 11 th to Aries Ascendant, 9 th and 10 th Lord 
to Taurus Ascendant, 8 th and 9 th Lord to Gemini, 7 th and 8 th 
Lord to Cancer, 6 th and 7 th Lord to Leo, 5 th and 6 th lord to Virgo, 
4 th and 5 th lord to Libra, 3 rd and 4 th lord to Scorpio, 2 nd and 3 rd 
lord to Sagittarius, 1 st and 2 nd lord to Capricorn, 1 st and 12 th lord 
to Aquarius and 11 th and 12 th lord to Pisces Ascendant and he 
may occupy any one of the houses in the respective ascendants. 
A planet in the three stars of Saturn, during its Dasha and transit 
periods will activate the above houses of Saturn. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 337 



Aslesha, Jyeshta, Revathi are ruled by Mercury who is the 
lord of 3 rd and 6 th to Aries Ascendant, 2 nd and 5 th lord to Taurus 
Ascendant, 1 st and 4 th lord to Gemini Ascendant, 3 rd and 12 th 
Lord to Cancer, 2 nd and 11 th Lord to Leo, 1 st and 10 th Lord to 
Virgo, 9 th and 12 th lord to Libra, 8 th and 11 th to Scorpio, 7 th and 
10 th to Sagittarius, 6 th and 9 th to Capricorn, 5 th and 8 th to 
Aquarius, 4 th and 7 th lord to Pisces and Mercury may occupy 
any one of the houses in the 12 ascendants. The houses 
represented by Mercury will be activated by the planets posited 
in any of the three stars of Mercury during their period of Dasha 
and Transit, 

This is the principle which is embedded in the rules of KP in 
arriving at the significators for a given horoscope. 

However in dealing with the 249 subs, we can see the total 
shift in the application by Professor KSK. In his reader III he 
elaborately covers the delineations mostly based on the 
Karakatwa of planets. This is the highlight of his concept intended 
to introduce the Naadi reading principles. This can be verified 
from a few subs explained below: Karakatwa of planets are 
essential part of Naadi exposition which is dealt in the section 
of Brighu Nandi Naadi may kindly be compared while reading 
the below explanations. 

Aries Ascendant: 

Sub No: 1 Sign Lord Mars, Star Lord Ketu, and Sub Lord 
Ketu. 

1 st house is'head, Mars is injury and Ketu is block 
and wound. Therefore, injury scar in the head 
and congestion in the brain which may result in 
epilepsy, coma are signified. Mars is an enmity 
factor and Ketu is gripping the enmity. Native may 
be worried about enemies. Ketu and Mars together 
are aborting in nature therefore abortions are 
attributed to this combination. Mars also indicates 
Machinery and Military and Ketu being robustness 
and therefore these significations. 



338 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Sub No: 2 Sign Lord Mars, Star Lord Ketu, and Sub Lord 
Venus 

1 st house head, Karaka for 1 st house Sun who 
also represents eyes, fever and headaches, Venus 
is enemy to Sun; therefore eye trouble fever and 
trance are indicated. Mars is tensions, Ketu is 
bondage Venus is a female hence tensions due 
to female is indicates. Venus indicate Venereal 
parts and Mars and Ketu both pitta planets 
diseases relating to this is indicated. Mars is 
machinery, Ketu is tail, Venus luxury and hence 
Railways and industry are indicated. Mars is 
butcher and therefore Slaughter house is 
mentioned. Venus represents pleasures and along 
with Ketu it represents Horse and Mars being a 
body it represents Jockey. 

Sub No; 3 Sign Lord Mars, Star Lord Ketu and Sub Lord Sun. 

Ketu represents drawing and paintings, Sun is 
bringing it to light and Mars represents head, Sun 
and Ketu represents medicine, Mars and Ketu 
represents animal, Mars represents Criminals, 
Ketu represents Legal, Sun is copper, Sun is barren 
planet Sun is eyes and 1 st house is head. 
Therefore, Paintings, cerebral anemia, Sore eyes 
headaches, veterinary surgeon, Criminal, Court 
and Jail, copper and barren significations are 
indicated. 

Sub No: 4 Sign Lord Mars, Star Lord Ketu and sub Lord Moon 

1 st house is head and brain, Mars and Ketu wound 
and injury, Ketu is disputing planet, Mars and 
Moon represents family members. Moon is mind 
Mars Ketu is irritable factors. Moon is water and 
Mars is fire, Ketu is tail, Ketu is disturbing factors. 
Mars is property Moon is irrigation. Ketu is 
obstructive planet Therefore, congestion in the 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 339 

brain, boils, dispute in the family, hysteria, 
neuralgia, steam boiler, Railways and cerebral 
hemorrhage, insomnia and landed property/ 
cultivation problems are indicated. 

Sub No: 5 Sign Lord Mars, Star Lord Ketu and Sub Lord Mars 

With Mars predominantly as sign lord and sub 
lord having Ketu as Star lord it indicates injuries/ 
scars /hemorrhage due to accidents disputes and 
violence and Mars indicate unformed activities and 
industry. Mars is an egoistic planet hence 
individuality is indicated and being an authoritative 
planet the top position in the work filed is 
indicated. It is also a tension planet and Ketu is a 
blocking planet it may cause seizures. 

Sub no: 6 Sign lord Mars, Star Lord Ketu, sub Lord Rahu: 

Rahu is a planet of antisocial/illusionary/ 
hyperactive and disease giving planet. Mars is 
basically an egoistic and violent planet, Ketu adds 
to fire and pitta nature. Irritability, quarrelsome 
diseased and disputable significations are found 
here. Rahu being illusionary also attributed with 
black magic together with Ketu and Mars it 
denotes black magic. Ketu is a litigation planet 
and Mars the landed property hence litigation in 
this aspect is denoted. Rahu is criminal, Mars is 
police. Mars and Rahu indicate dog and dog bite. 
These significations are all included in this 
combination. Mars is brother Ketu is adamant and 
Rahu is antisocial, one of the brothers of the native 
may have these characters. The native himself 
may be accident prone and may lose a limb 

Sub no: 7 Sign lord Mars, Star Lord Ketu, sub Lord Jupiter: 

Mars is brave, Ketu is congestion 1 st house is head; 
Jupiter is Kapha, Jupiter Bank, Mats factory and 



340 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

authorities, Jupiter is religious and endowment 
Mars is violent and Ketu is adamant Jupiter is 
legal. These factors are included in the 
significations of Brave, Congestion in the brains, 
malaria, meningitis, manager of factory, bank 
agent, religious endowment, executive officer, 
Criminal-Session Judge. 

Sub no: 8 Sign lord Mars, Star Lord Ketu sub Lord Saturn: 

Saturn and Mars are enemies and 1 st house is 
head, Mars and Ketu wound and scar and poxes. 
Saturn is sleep. Saturn is low work, and steel, 
Mars is machinery and mining. Saturn is a barren 
planet. These factors are included in the 
significations: Scar in the head, Small pox, boils, 
injury, Cerebral operation, coma, Insomnia, Filarial 
fever, Severe headache, Section Officer, Maistry, 
Iron, Steel Factory, Mine or land owner-Barren, 
abortion, false pains, irregular monthly periodicity. 

Sub No: 9 Sign lord Mars, Star lord Ketu and Sub lord 
Mercury: 

Mercury is nerves/writing/typing, with Ketu 
broking, Mars is mechanical/quarrel, Land and 
building, Mars is violence Ketu is also legal, 
Mercury is also a barren and with Ketu it creates 
childlessness. Therefore the significations are 
evident: Epilepsy, Violence, Spasm, paralytic 
Stroke, quarrelsome, Petition writer, Typist, 
Mechanical Engineer, Land, Building Broker- 
Barren, no child. 

Sub No: 10 Sign lord Mars, Star Lord Venus and Sub Lord 
Venus: 

Venus /female, and represents arts and pleasures 
while Mars is energy, 1 st house is head which 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 341 

includes pleasures relating to head and brain. 
Therefore the significations represent: Amorous, 
always fond of pleasure, chain smoker, and injury 
above the eye, sportsman, and deals in musical 
instrument, exhibition, and maternity. 

Sub No: 11 Sign lord Mars, star lord Venus and sub ford Sun: 

Sun is a successful planet representing eyes, 
opposing the pleasurable planet Venus. Sun also 
represents medicine and he is representative 
factor for visibility. Sun is a status symbol. 
Therefore activities will reach to successful end. 
Magnanimous in nature and may get injury or 
catarrh to eyes. He may dispel undue habits. Gets 
involved in visual publicity advertisement and may 
take up veterinary or surgical profession. Mars 
being a technical and machinery planet he may 
involve in industry in a post where the truth is to 
be prevailed like that of judge. He may shine in 
the criminal proceedings. However the inclusion 
of Railways may be due to involvement of Mars. 

Sub No: 12 Sign lord Mars, star Venus and sub lord Moon: 

Moon represents beverages, Venus is pleasure 
and Mars is sore. Drinks like coffee tea even 
alcoholics are represented due to involvement of 
Mars and Venus. Moon being capricious in nature 
involved with a pleasurable planet may tell upon 
the character of the person. Moon also represent 
food and transportation especially water related 
transport. Therefore, Food and linked materials 
like fertilizers, Agriculture and shipyard indicated 
in the significations. Moon and Venus represent 
sexual related diseases. Venus is also fashion and 
Moon arts therefore dress materials of attraction 
are also indicated. 



342 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Sub No: 13 Sign lord Mars, Star Lord Venus and sub Lord 
Mars 

Mars represents buildings, sports and Venus 
pleasure and therefore, cinema halls, studio and 
marriage halls are indicated. Mars is a surgeon 
and Venus is Venereal matters and by profession 
he may become Venereal expert. Venus is beauty 
and Mars is scissors therefore barber is 
represented by this combination. In some of the 
texts Venus is attributed with metal silver and 
therefore silver vessels are denoted here. Mars 
with its double effect shows extra energy and 
therefore native may be active and healthy and 
fond of pleasure. 

Sub No: 14 Sign lord Mars, Star Lord Venus and Sub lord Rahu 

Rahu and Venus indicate Vehicle and Mars 
industry. Rahu and Mars indicate slaughter house. 
Venus and Rahu indicate extraordinary desires. 
Mars is wound Rahu aggravation. These factors 
are represented in the significations for this sub: 
Aspiring, lowborn person, Leucoderma, Leprosy, 
Automobile Industry, Slaughter house. 

Taurus ascendant: 

Sub No: 23 Sign Lord Venus, Star lord Sun and Sub lord Rahu 

Venus is money Rahu is speculations. Rahu is 
materialistic, Sun is eye Mars is red. Rahu is 
photography, Sun is woolen. Rahu and Mars 
leprosy and Sun is clinic. These significations have 
Figured in this sub: Speculative tendency, selfish, 
—eye-soar, Reddish eye, Photographer, wool 
dealer, works in leper clinics. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 343 

Sub No: 24 Sign Lord Venus, Star Lord Sun and Sub Lord 
Jupiter: 

Sun is societal, Jupiter is generous, Venus is 
cheerful, Throat is Venus Sun is enemy factor, 
Venus jewels Sun is Royal and Dignity, Venus is 
arts and decoration. Sun is authority Venus is 
Money Jupiter is collector Hence the significations: 
Social generous, cheerful, Swelling above neck, 
victory over enemies, costly jewels and dress, 
music, artist, decoration, tax collector. 

Sagittarius Ascendant: 

Sub No: 167: Sign lord Jupiter, star lord Ketu and Sub lord Ketu: 

Jupiter is karaka for children, Ketu for abortions 
and the sign Sagittarius is dual in nature and 
therefore KSK attributes double abortion or still 
born baby Ketu represents hair and both as star 
and sub lord indicating this signification, the 
person's hair factors are fortified being the 
ascendant Ketu also indicates obstructive nature 
and Jupiter being kapha in nature, obstruction in 
Kapha which is generalized as Asthma and the 
effect is focused on lungs. Jupiter is an advisor 
and Ketu a healing planet therefore medical 
signification is indicated. Ketu is metaphysical in 
nature and Jupiter represents nobility hence God 
fearing nature is attributed. Sagittarius is a sign 
of action orientation with fiery element, therefore 
boldness and karma is attributed to this section 
terming as Karma yoga, Jupiter is money and Ketu 
is blocking and also spiritual in nature hence the 
expenses are attributed to social welfares. Jupiter 
is a preacher and bestower of help to others and 



344 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

being associated with Ketu a de-linking factpr with 
material world the carelessness is attributed at 
family front This also allow the partner to be 
free as there is less attention from the native. 

Sub No: 168: Sign lord Jupiter, Star lord Ketu and Sub lord 
Venus: 

Venus as sub lord who is by his nature promotes 
pleasures and beauty; structurally the native will 
be well proportioned with added beauty. To be 
pleasurable one must be enthusiastic and 
energetic. Ketu spiritual oriented and Jupiter being 
noble in nature the person will be sincere and 
honest. Jupiter is glucose and Venus is insulin. In 
between them there is a de-linking planet Ketu 
blocking the harmonious reactions between 
glucose and insulin which causes diabetes. Venus 
being luxury and Jupiter being Money and Ketu 
being spiritual his earnings will be by fair means. 
Ketu is a bonding factor between the native as 
Jupiter representing Lagna and Venus is the 
significatorofwife. Therefore, the native will have 
equal bondage with society as well with wife. 

Sub No: 169: Sign lord Jupiter, Star lord Ketu and sub lord Sun: 

Sun being a sub lord indicator of Dhanvantari a 
health bestower and along with another medicinal 
planet Ketu with a guiding Jupiter is an assurance 
for good health. Sun is for recognition and with 
Jupiter it expands the desires to be ambitious in 
nature. Being Atma karaka with noble factor of 
Jupiter exhibits honesty. Vitality of Sun is also 
considered. Being two medicinal planets 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 345 

promoting health will give quick recovery from 
sickness. Sun represents an institution and Ketu 
is blocking and Jupiter being treasury it indicates 
banking and money related activities. Sun being 
a fair planet with Jupiter having a bonding planet 
Ketu in between, the native maintains fair 
relationships. 

Sub No: 170 Sign lord Jupiter, Star lord Ketu and Sub lord Moon: 

Moon is mind and Ketu is blocking results in timid 
mentality. Moon is a watery planet Jupiter is Kapha 
and Ketu is accumulative and therefore native 
develops plump body structure. Moon also 
represents charming hence charming appearance. 
Moon is capricious in nature and hence native 
may exhibit fickle mindedness. Moon is for 
changing attitude and may not have stability in 
decision making. Moon also represents travel 
hence native may take up long journeys. Moon is 
for changing hence often native may change his 
residence. Due to fickle mindedness the native 
may resort to immoral acts. Moon also represent 
female in nature and therefore native may not 
maintain trusted relationships. Ketu also for 
overseas and therefore may get interested in 
exporting transactions, Jupiter involvement with 
changing nature of Moon may also indicate money 
transacting activities. Moon is blood and Ketu is 
Vrana (pollution), this may cause Tuberculosis. 



346 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Selected a few from the work of genius narration as per 
Naadi is given above to establish the fact that Naadi reading by 
Karakatwa is the main key in these 249 sub indications. 

Professor has done a laborious work in drafting these 
significations wherein utmost importance is given to Karakatwa 
of planets at star, sub,, and sign lord including sign significations. 
Professor has simply used them basing these 249 subs 
exclusively treating them as Lagna which will include, Character, 
health and professional mattes which are part and parcel of 
first house matters. (Note livelihood is the signification of first 
house according to classical texts). Professor's work being 
suggestive in nature he kept the option open for application of 
this great principle to other houses falling in the star and sub 
area by which every house will give elaborate details of the 
matter. Apart from this if the relationship of houses signified by 
the star level and sub level as earlier discussed clubbed, the 
matter would be clearer in Bhava Phala prediction. This concept 
of extensive use of Karakatwa at predictive level through 249 
subs relating to house matter is rarely found in the recent 
applications by the KP fraternity. 

It would be voluminous yet worthwhile if these 249 subs 
are elaborated by using Karakatwa, house matters of Sign, Star 
and Sub for each ascendant for 12 houses. The scribe however 
appends tables for 12 houses giving the house matter and 
significations of 9 planets to enable the reader to interlink house 
matter with that of planetary signification. It can further be 
fine-tuned with attaching lordship to planets and sign qualities 
for meaningful predictive matters for all the twelve houses of 
12 Ascendants, 



Combine the Planets 


as Sign Lord, Star Lord and Sub Lord in Relation to Houses 




If linked to 


SUN 


D MOO 


<f MAR 


¥ MER 


21 JUP 


? VEN 


ft SAT 


a RAH 


V KET 


1st House 


Honour 

Authority 

Father 

Politics 

De-link 

Express 

Name 

Fame 

Health 

Gold 


Flow 

Mind 

Fickle 

Fraud 

Emotion 

Mother 

Water 

Respond 

Travel 

React 

Un -steady 

Silver 


Dare 

Debt 

Action 

Sibling 

Haste 

Enemy 

Violence 

Accidents 

Surgery 

Iron 


Intelligent 

Education 

Friend 

Trade 

Speech 

Convey 

Analyse 

Liberal 

Communi- 

-cations . 

Mercury 


Money 

Progeny 

Law 

Wisdom 

Expand 

Justice 

Protection 

Religion 

Optimism 

Tin 


Marriage 

Spouse 

Joy 

Attract 

Wealth 

Arts 

Comforts 

Pleasures 

Fortune 

Unite 

Copper 


Profession 

Steady 

Limit 

Discipline 

Delay 

De-link 

Land 

Lazy 

Setbacks 

Blame 

Lead 


Sudden 

Foreign 

De-link 

Illusion 

Arrest 

Fear 

Deceptive 

Provocative 

Shadow 

Gas 


Mystic 

Spiritual 

Block 

Detached 

Dejection 

Break 

Liberate 

Bondage 

Alloy 


Activity 


All ambitions 


Beginning 


Character 


Fame 


Health 


Longevity 


Vigour 


Dignity 


Head, Heart 


Personality 


Self 


3rd to El. Brother 


Fire-Bile 


Cold Blood 


Fire-Bile 


Air-Gas 


Ether-Gas 


Water 


Air 


Air- Fire 


Fire-Bile 


5th to Father 


Pitta 


Left Eye 


Blood 


Hands 


Fat 


Meha 


Gas 


Gas 


Blocks 


7th to Spouse 


Bones 


Lungs 


cells 


Neck 


Brain 


Cold 


Digestive 


Dilution 


Nails 


9th to Children 


Right Eye 


Urinary 


Marrow 


Forehead 


Thigh 


Semen 


Buttock 


Intestine 


Hair 


10th to Mother 


Heart 


Bladder 


Eyebrow 


Shoulders 


Feet 


Face 


Knees 


Ear 


Anus 


11th to Siblings 


Skeleton 


Circulatory 


Heart 


Tongue 


Nose 


Uterus 


Foreleg 


Head 


Private 






system 


Teeth 


Skin 


Liver 


Ovaries 


Chin 


Mouth 


part 








Muscles 




Glands 


Cheek 

Fluids 


Nerve 
Secretions 


Lips 
Tubes 


Valves 
Growths 



CO 

5" 

CO 

Q) 
tn 
<[> 



a> 

£ 

in 

3 

i 

CD 
S 

o 

Q. 
Co 



CO 



Combine the Planets 


as Sign Lord, Star Lord and Sub Lord in Relation to Houses 




If linked to 


SUN 


D MOO 


b" MAR 


7 MER 


% JUP 


? VEN 


fe SAT 


a RAH 


U KET 


2nd House 


Honour 

Authority 

Father 

Politics 

De-link 

Express 

Name 

Fame 

Health 

Gold 


Flow 
Mind 
Fickle 

Fraud 

Emotion 

Mother 

Water 

Respond 

Travel 

React 

Un-steady 

Silver 


Dare 

Debt 

Action 

Sibling 

Haste 

Enemy 

Violence 

Accidents 

Surgery 

Iron 


Intelligent 
Education 
Friend 
Trade 

Speech 

Convey 

Analyse 

Liberal 

Cornmuni- 

-cations 

Mercury 


Money 

Progeny 

Law 

Wisdom 

Expand 

Justice 

Protection 

Religion 

Optimism 

Tin 


Marriage 

Spouse 

Joy 

Attract 

Wealth 

Arts 

Comforts 

Pleasures 

Fortune 

Unite 

Copper 


Profession 

Steady 

Limit 

Discipline 

Delay 

De-link 

Land 

Lazy 

Setbacks 

Blame 

Lead 


Sudden 

Foreign 

De-link 

Illusion 

Arrest 

Fear 

Deceptive 

Provocative 

Shadow 

Gas 


Mystic 

Spiritual 

Block 

Detached 

Dejection 

Break 

Liberate 

Bondage 

Alloy 


Death 


Documents 


Earning 


Express 


Speech 


Food 


Observe 


Wealth 


Banking Activity 


Face, Eyes 


Family 


EI. Bro to Mother 


4th to EL Brother 
6th to Father 
8th to Spouse 
10th to Children 
11th to Mother 
12th to Siblings 


Fire-Bile 

Pitta 

Bones 

Right Eye 

Heart 

Skeleton 


Cold Blood 

Left Eye 

Lungs 

Urinary 

Bladder 

Circulatory 

system 


Fire-Bile 

Blood 

cells 

Marrow 

Eyebrow 

Heart 

Teeth 

Muscles 


Air-Gas 

Hands 

Neck 

Forehead 

Shoulders 

Tongue 

Skin 


Ether-Gas 

Fat 

Brain 

Thigh 

Feet 

Nose 

Liver 

Glands 


Water 

Meha 

Cold 

Semen 

Face 

Uterus 

Ovaries 

Cheek 

Fluids 


Air 

Gas 

Digestive 

Buttock 

Knees 

Foreleg 

Chin 

Nerve 

Secretions 


Air-Fire 

Gas 

Dilution 

Intestine 

Ear 

Head 

Mouth 

Lips 

Tubes 


Fire-Brie 

Blocks 

Nails 

Hair 

Anus 

Private 

part 

Valves 

Growths 



Co 

CO 



o 
o 

a- 

o 

00 



O 
o 

I 

3 

Cb 
CO 

I 



Combine the Planets 


as Sign Lord, Star Lord and Sub Lord in Relation to Houses 




If linked to 


SUN 


3) MOO 


o* MAR 


¥ MER 


21 JUP 


9 VEN 


h SAT 


a RAH 


13 KET 


3rd House 


Honour 

Authority 

Father 

Politics 

De-link 

Express 

Name 

Fame 

Health 

Gold 


Flow 

Mind 

Fickle 

Fraud 

Emotion 

Mother 

Water 

Respond 

Travel 

React 

Un-steady 

Silver 


Dare 

Debt 

Action 

Sibling 

Haste 

Enemy 

Violence 

Accidents 

Surgery 

Iron 


Intelligent 

Education 

Friend 

Trade 

Speech 

Convey 

Analyse 

Liberal 

Communi- 

-cations 

Mercury 


Money 

Progeny 

Law 

Wisdom 

Expand 

Justice 

Protection 

Religion 

Optimism 

Tin 


Marriage 

Spouse 

Joy 

Attract 

Wealth 

Arts 

Comforts 

Pleasures 

Fortune 

Unite 

Copper 


Profession 

Steady 

Limit 

Discipline 

Delay 

De-link 

Land 

Lazy 

Setbacks 

Blame 

Lead 


Sudden 

Foreign 

De-link 

Illusion 

Arrest 

Fear 

Deceptive 

Provocative 

Shadow 

Gas 


Mystic 

Spiritual 

Block 

Detached 

Dejection 

Break 

Liberate 

Bondage 

Alloy 


Communication 


Courage-Ability 


House change 


Longevity 


Sale of Property 


Self agreement 


Short-Travel 


Writing/Publish 


Interviews 


Neck-Shoulder 


Younger Sibling 


Father in Law 


5th to El. Brother 


Fire-Bile 


Cold Blood 


Fire-Bile 


Air-Gas 


Ether-Gas 


Water 


Air 


Air-Fire 


Fire-Bile 


7th to Father 


Pitta 


Left Eye 


Blood 


Hands 


Fat 


Meha 


Gas 


Gas / 


Blocks 


9th to Spouse 


Bones 


Lungs 


cells 


Neck 


Brain 


Cold 


Digestive 


Dilution 


Nails 


11th to Children 


Right Eye 


Urinary 


Marrow 


Forehead 


Thigh 


Semen 


Buttock 


Intestine 


Hair 


12th to Mother 


Heart 


Bladder 


Eyebrow 


Shoulders 


Feet 


Face 


Knees 


Ear 


Anus 


1st to Siblings 


Skeleton 


Circulatory 


Heart 


Tongue 


Nose 


Uterus 


Foreleg 


Head 


Private 






system 


Teeth 


Skin 


Liver 


Ovaries 


Chin 


Mouth 


part 








Muscles 




Glands 


Cheek 
Fluids 


Nerve 
Secretions 


Lips 
Tubes 


Valves 
Growths 



CD 

5r 

-i 

CD 
03 

03 
CD 

to 

a 
4? 

CO 
CD 
2 

CD 

O 
Q. 
CO 



CO 

CO 



Combine the Planets 


as Sign Lord, Star Lord and Sub Lord in Relation to Houses 




If linked to 


SUN 


D MOO 


<? MAR 


¥ MER 


21 JUP 


? VEN 


h SAT 


a RAH 


V KET 


4th House 


Honour 

Authority 

Father 

Politics 

Pe-link 

Express 

Name 

Fame 

Health 

Gold 


Flow 

Mind 

Fickle 

Fraud 

Emotion 

Mother 

Water 

Respond 

Travel 

React 

Un-steady 

Silver 


Dare 

Debt 

Action 

Sibling 

Haste 

Enemy 

Violence 

Accidents 

Surgery 

Iron 


Intelligent 

Education 

Friend 

Trade 

Speech 

Convey 

Analyse 

Liberal 

Communi- 

-cations 

Mercury 


Money 

Progeny 

Law 

Wisdom 

Expand 

Justice 

Protection 

Religion 

Optimism 

Tin 


Marriage 

Spouse 

Joy 

Attract 

Wealth 

Arts 

Comforts 

Pleasures 

Fortune 

Unite 

Copper 


Profession 

Steady 

Limit 

Discipline 

Delay 

De-link 

Land 

Lazy 

Setbacks 

Blame 

Lead 


Sudden 

Foreign 

De-link 

Illusion 

Arrest 

Fear 

Deceptive 

Provocative 

Shadow 

Gas 


Mystic 

Spiritual 

Block 

Detached 

Dejection 

Break 

Liberate 

Bondage 

Alloy 


Basic Education 


Conveyance \ 


Happiness ' 


Home Place 


Lands 


Masses 


Private Life 


Properties 


Peace 


Chest, Lungs 


Mother 


Negating 5th 


6th to EI. Brother 
8th to Father 
10th to Spouse 
12th to Children 
1st to Mother 
12th to Siblings 


Fire-Bile 

Pitta 

Bones 

Right Eye 

Heart 

Skeleton 


Cold Blood 

Left Eye 

Lungs 

Urinary 

Bladder 

Circulatory 

system 


Fire-Bile 

Blood 

cells 

Marrow 

Eyebrow 

Heart 

Teeth 

Muscles 


Air-Gas 

Hands 

Neck 

Forehead 

Shoulders 

Tongue 

Skin 


Ether-Gas 

Fat 

Brain 

Thigh 

Feet 

Nose 

Liver 

Glands 


Water 

Meha 

Cold 

Semen 

Face 

Uterus 

Ovaries 

Cheek 

Fluids 


Air 

Gas 

Digestive 

Buttock 

Knees 

Foreleg 

Chin 

Nerve 

Secretions 


Air-Fire 

Gas 

Dilution 

Intestine 

Ear 

Head 

Mouth 

Lips 

Tubes 


Fire-Bile 

Blocks 

Nails 

Hair 

Anus 

Private 

part 

Valves 

Growths 



CO 

o 



30 

o 
o 
3- 
o 



0) 
Co 



O 

o 

I 

5 

CD 
CO 

1' 
I 



Combine the Planets 


as Sign Lord, Star Lord and Sub Lord in Relation to Houses 




If linked to 


SUN 


D MOO 


e MAR 


¥ MER 


% JUP 


? VEN 


ft SAT 


n RAH 


V KET 


5th House 


Honour 

Authority 

Father 

Politics 

De-link 

Express 

Name 

Fame 

Health 

Gold 


Flow 

Mind 

Fickle 

Fraud 

Emotion 

Mother 

Water 

Respond 

Travel 

React 

Un-steady 

Silver 


Dare 

Debt 

Action 

Sibling 

Haste 

Enemy 

Violence 

Accidents 

Surgery 

Iron 


Intelligent 

Education 

Friend 

Trade 

Speech 

Convey 

Analyse 

Liberal 

Communi- 

-cations 

Mercury 


Money 

Progeny 

Law 

Wisdom 

Expand 

Justice 

Protection 

Religion 

Optimism 

Tin 


Marriage 

Spouse 

Joy 

Attract 

Wealth 

Arts 

Comforts 

Pleasures 

Fortune 

Unite 

Copper 


Profession 

Steady 

Limit 

Discipline 

Delay 

De-link 

Land 

Lazy 

Setbacks 

Blame 

Lead 


Sudden 

Foreign ' 

De-link 

Illusion 

Arrest 

Fear 

Deceptive 

Provocative 

Shadow 

Gas 


Mystic 

Spiritual 

Block 

Detached 

Dejection 

Break 

Liberate 

Bondage 

Alloy 


Speculation 


Disease Cure 


Divinity 


Love 


Oppose to Work 


Pleasure Pursuit 


Politics 


Snorts 


Wisdom 


Heart U. Belly 


Children 


Brother in Law 


7th to El. Brother 


Fire-Bile 


Cold Blood 


Fire-Bile 


Air-Gas 


Ether-Gas 


Water 


Air 


Air- Fire 


Fire-Bile 


9th to Father 


Pitta 


Left Eye 


Blood 


Hands 


Fat 


Meha 


Gas 


Gas 


Blocks 


11th to Spouse 


Bones 


Lungs 


cells 


Neck 


Brain 


Cold 


Digestive 


Dilution 


Nails 


1st to Children 


Right Eye 


Urinary 


Marrow 


Forehead 


Thigh 


Semen 


Buttock 


Intestine 


Hair 


2nd to Mother 


Heart 


Bladder 


Eyebrow 


Shoulders 


Feet 


Face 


Knees 


Ear 


Anus 


3rd to Siblings 


Skeleton 


Circulatory 


Heart 


Tongue 


Nose 


Uterus 


Foreleg 


Head 


Private 






system 


Teeth 


Skin 


Liver 


Ovaries 


Chin 


Mouth 


part 








Muscles 




Glands 


Cheek 

Fluids 


Nerve 
Secretions 


Lips 
Tubes 


Valves 
Growths 



5? 

CD 

0> 
Co 

CD 

& 

a 

Co 

cF 



o 

CO 



CO 



Combine the Planets 


as Sign Lord, Star Lord and Sub Lord in Relation to Houses 




If linked to 


SUN 


J> MOO 


<? MAR 


¥ MER 


21 JUP 


$ VEN 


It SAT 


a RAH 


U KET 


6th House 


Honour . 

Authority 

Father 

Politics 

De-link 

Express 

Name 

Fame 

Health 

Gold 


Flow 

Mind 

Fickle 

Fraud 

Emotion 

Mother 

Water 

Respond 

Travel 

React 

Un-steady 

Silver 


Dare 

Debt 

Action 

Sibling 

Haste 

Enemy 

Violence 

Accidents 

Surgery 

Iron 


Intelligent 

Education 

Friend 

Trade 

Speech 

Convey 

Analyse 

Liberal 

Communi- 

-cations 

Mercury 


Money 

Progeny 

Law 

Wisdom 

Expand 

Justice 

Protection 

Religion 

Optimism 

Tin 


Marriage 

Spouse 

Joy 

Attract 

Wealth 

Arts 

Comforts 

Pleasures 

Fortune 

Unite 

Copper 


Profession 

Steady 

Limit 

Discipline 

Delay 

De-link 

Land 

Lazy 

Setbacks 

Blame 

Lead 


Sudden 

Foreign 

De-link 

Illusion 

Arrest 

Fear 

Deceptive 

Provocative 

Shadow 

Gas 


Mystic 

Spiritual 

Block 

Detached 

Dejection 

Break 

Liberate 

Bondage 

Alloy 


Enemies 


Job & Service 


Obstacles 


De-link -partner 


Debts-Loans 


Diseases 


Litigations 


Win over 


Struggle-Fear 


Stomach 


Maternal Uncles 


Marital Problems 


8th to EL Brother 
10th to Father 
12th to Spouse 
2nd to Children 
3rd to Mother 
4th to Siblings 


Fire-Bile 

Pitta 

Bones 

Right Eye 

Heart 

Skeleton 


Cold BJood 

Left Eye 

Lungs 

Urinary 

Bladder 

Circulatory 

system 


Fire-Bile 

Blood 

cells 

Marrow 

Eyebrow 

Heart 

Teeth 

Muscles 


Air-Gas 
Hands 

Neck 

Forehead 

Shoulders 

Tongue 

Skin 


Ether-Gas 

Fat 

Brain 

Thigh 

Feet 

Nose 

Liver 

Glands 


Water 

Meha 

Cold 

Semen 

Face 

Uterus 

Ovaries 

Cheek 

Fluids 


Air 
Gas 

Digestive 

Buttock 

Knees 

Foreleg 

Chin 

Nerve 

Secretions 


Air-Fire 

Gas 

Dilution 

Intestine 

Ear 

Head 

Mouth 

Lips 

Tubes 


Fire-Bile 

Blocks 

Nails 

Hair 

Anus 

Private 

part 

Valves 

Growths 



CO 



o 

sr 

o 
ft 

CO 



o 

o 
3 

1 

CD 

I 



Combine the Planets as Sign Lord, Star Lord and Sub Lord in Relation to Houses 


If linked to 


SUN 


D MOO 


o* MAR 


¥ MER 


2t JUP 


$ VEN 


t* SAT 


n RAH 


V KET 


7th House 


Honour 

Authority 

Father 

Politics 

De-link 

Express 

Name 

Fame 

Health 

Gold 


Flow 

Mind 

Fickle 

Fraud 

Emotion 

Mother 

Water' 

Respond 

Travel 

React 

Un- steady 

Silver 


Dare 

Debt 

Action 

Sibling 

Haste 

Enemy 

Violence 

Accidents 

Surgery 

Iron 


Intelligent 

Education 

Friend 

Trade 

Speech 

Convey 

Analyse 

Liberal 

Communi- 

-cations 

Mercury 


Money 

Progeny 

Law 

Wisdom 

Expand 

justice 

Protection 

Religion 

Optimism 

Tin 


Marriage 

Spouse 

Joy 

Attract 

Wealth 

Arts 

Comforts 

Pleasures 

Fortune 

Unite 

Copper 


Profession 

Steady 

Limit 

Discipline 

Delay 

De-link 

Land 

Lazy 

Setbacks 

Blame 

Lead 


Sudden 

Foreign 

De-link 

Illusion 

Arrest 

Fear 

Deceptive 

Provocative 

Shadow 

Gas 


Mystic 

Spiritual 

Block 

Detached 

Dejection 

Break 

Liberate 

Bondage 

Alloy 


Death 


Business 


Partners 


Martial - Life 


Opposite Person 


Foreign relation 


Legal matters 


Journey Break 


Foreign contact 


Waist-L. Belly 


Spouse 


El. Bro to Father 


9th to El. Brother 


Fire-Bile 


Cold Blood 


Fire-Bile 


Air-Gas 


Ether-Gas 


Water 


Air 


Air-Fire 


Fire-Bile 


11th to Father 


Pitta 


Left Eye 


Blood 


Hands 


Fat 


Meha 


Gas 


Gas 


Blocks 


1st to Spouse 


Bones 


Lungs 


cells 


Neck 


Brain 


Cold 


Digestive 


Dilution 


Nails 


3rd to Children 


Right Eye 


Urinary 


Marrow 


Forehead 


Thigh 


Semen 


Buttock 


Intestine 


Hair 


4th to Mother 


Heart 


Bladder 


Eyebrow 


Shoulders 


Feet 


Face 


Knees 


Ear 


Anus 


5th to Siblings 


Skeleton 


Circulatory 


Heart 


Tongue 


Nose 


Uterus 


Foreleg 


Head 


Private 






system 


Teeth 


Skin 


Liver 


Ovaries 


Chin 


Mouth 


part 








Muscles 




Glands 


Cheek 
Fluids 


Nerve 
Secretions 


Lips 

Tubes 


Valves 
Growths 



CD 

CO 

03 
CO 
CD 

9- 

03 

£ 

CO 

I 

5 
o 

Cl. 
CO 



CO 
CO 



Combine the Planets 


as Sign Lord, Star Lord and Sub Lord in Relation to Houses 




If linked to 


SUN 


» MOO 


d" MAR 


¥ MER 


21 JUP 


$ VEN 


h SAT 


a RAH 


V KET 


8th House 


Honour 

Authority 

Father 

Politics 

De-link 

Express 

Name 

Fame 

Health 

Gold 


Flow 

Mind 

Ffckle 

Fraud 

Emotion 

Mother 

Water 

Respond 

Travel 

React 

Un-steady 

Silver 


Dare 

Debt 

Action 

Sibling 

Haste 

Enemy 

Violence 

Accidents 

Surgery 

Iron 


Intelligent 

Education 

Friend 

Trade 

Speech 

Convey 

Analyse 

Liberal 

Communi- 

-cations 

Mercury 


Money 

Progeny 

Law 

Wisdom 

Expand 

Justice 

Protection 

Religion 

Optimism 

Tin 


Marriage 

Spouse 

Joy 

Attract 

Wealth 

Arts 

Comforts 

Pleasures 

Fortune 

Unite 

Copper 


Profession 

Steady 

Limit 

Discipline 

Delay 

De-link 

Land 

Lazy 

Setbacks 

Blame 

Lead 


Sudden 

Foreign 

De-link 

Illusion 

Arrest 

Fear 

Deceptive 

Provocative 

Shadow 

Gas 


Mystic 

Spiritual 

Block 

Detached 

Dejection 

Break 

Liberate 

Bondage 

Alloy 


Longevity 


Unearned Wealth 


Legacy 


Violent/Hidden 


Difficulty-Scandal 


Defame-Blame 


Quarrel-Accident 


Insurance-Will 


Sick Chronic 


Private Parts 


Spouse Wealth 


Death of Partner 


10th to El. Bro. 
12th to Father 
2nd to Spouse 
4th to Children 
5th to Mother 
6th to Siblings 


Fire-Bile 

Pitta 

Bones 

Right Eye 

Heart 

Skeleton 


Cold Blood 

Left Eye 

Lungs 

Urinary 

Bladder 

Circulatory 

system 


Fire-Bile 

Blood 

cells 

Marrow 
Eyebrow 
Heart ■ 
Teeth 
Muscles 


Air-Gas 

Hands 

Neck 

Forehead 

Shoulders 

Tongue 

Skin 


Ether-Gas 

Fat 

Brain 

Thigh 

Feet 

Nose 

Liver 

Glands 


Water 

Meha 

Cold 

Semen 

Face 

Uterus 

Ovaries 

Cheek 

Fluids 


Air 

Gas 

Digestive 

Buttock 

Knees 

Foreleg 

Chin 

Nerve 

Secretions 


Air-Fire 

Gas 

Dilution 

Intestine 

Ear 

Head 

Mouth 

Lips 

Tubes 


Fire-Bile 

Blocks 

Nails 

Hair 

Anus 

Private 

part 

Valves 

Growths 



to 

4^ 



O 

o 

o 



03 

Co 

5" 



O 

o 

3 
3 

=r 
CD 

00 

S" 

03 

a- 



Combine the Planets as Sign Lord, Star Lord and Sub Lord in Relation to Houses 


If linked to 


SUN 


D MOO 


d* MAR 


¥ MER 


21 JUP 


9 VEN 


h SAT 


a RAH 


V KET 


9th House 


Honour 

Authority 

Father 

Politics 

De-link 

Express 

Name 

Fame 

Health 

Gold 


Flow 

Mind 

Fickle 

Fraud 

Emotion 

Mother 

Water 

Respond 

Travel 

React 

Un-steady 

Silver 


Dare 

Debt 

Action 

Sibling 

Haste 

Enemy 

Violence 

Accidents 

Surgery 

Iron 


Intelligent 

Education 

Friend 

Trade 

Speech 

Convey 

Analyse 

Liberal 

Communi- 

-cations 

Mercury 


Money 

Progeny 

Law 

Wisdom 

Expand 

Justice 

Protection 

Religion 

Optimism 

Tin 


Marriage 

Spouse 

Joy 

Attract 

Wealth 

Arts 

Comforts 

Pleasures 

Fortune 

Unite 

Copper 


Profession 

Steady 

Limit 

Discipline 

Delay 

De-link 

Land 

Lazy 

Setbacks 

Blame 

Lead 


Sudden 

Foreign 

De-link 

Illusion 

Arrest 

Fear 

Deceptive 

Provocative 

Shadow 

Gas 


Mystic 

Spiritual 

Block 

Detached 

Dejection 

Break 

Liberate 

Bondage 

Alloy 


Past merits 


Higher Education 


Foreign Travel 


Pilgrimage 


Legal matters 


Spiritual 


Others Agreement 


Occult-Intuition 


2nd-relation/wife 


Thighs 


Father 


Bro/Sis in laws 


11th to El. Bro. 


Fire-Bile 


Cold Blood 


Fire-Bile 


Air-Gas 


Ether-Gas 


Water 


Air 


Air-Fire 


Fire-Bile 


1st to Father 


Pitta 


Left Eye 


Blood 


Hands 


Fat 


Meha 


Gas 


Gas 


Blocks 


3rd to Spouse 


Bones 


Lungs 


cells 


Neck 


Brain 


Cold 


Digestive 


Dilution 


Nails 


5th to Children 


Right Eye 


Urinary 


Marrow 


Forehead 


Thigh 


Semen 


Buttock 


Intestine 


Hair 


6th to Mother 


Heart 


Bladder 


Eyebrow 


Shoulders 


Feet 


face 


Knees 


Ear 


Anus 


7th to Siblings 


Skeleton 


Circulatory 


Heart 


Tongue 


Nose 


Uterus 


Foreleg 


Head 


Private 






system 


Teeth 


Skin 


Liver 


Ovaries 


Chin 


Mouth 


part 








Muscles 




Glands 


Cheek 
Fluids 


Nerve 
Secretions 


Lips 
Tubes 


Valves 

Growths 



£3 

SL 

5r 

■■^ 

CO 

to 
<D 



0) 

a 

£ 

3 

i 

5 
o 

Co 



CO 



Combine the Planets 


as Sign Lord, Star Lord and Sub Lord in Relation to Houses 




If linked to 


SUN 


D MOO 


<? MAR 


¥ MER 


% JUP 


? VEN 


\ SAT 


a RAH 


V KET 


10th House 


Honour 

Authority 

Father 

Politics 

De-link 

Express 

Name 

Fame 

Health 

Gold 


Flow 

Mind 

Fickle 

Fraud 

Emotion 

Mother 

Water 

Respond 

Travel 

React 

Un-steady 

Silver 


Dare 

Debt 

Action 

Sibling 

Haste 

Enemy 

Violence 

Accidents 

Surgery 

Iron 


Intelligent 

Education 

Friend 

Trade 

Speech 

Convey 

Analyse 

Liberal 

Communi- 

-cations 

Mercury 


Money 

Progeny 

Law 

Wisdom 

Expand 

Justice 

Protection 

Religion 

Optimism 

Tin 


Marriage 
Spouse 

Joy 

Attract 

Wealth 

Arts 

Comforts 

Pleasures 

Fortune 

Unite 

Copper 


Profession 

Steady 

Limit 

Discipline 

Delay 

De-fink 

Land 

Lazy 

Setbacks 

Blame 

Lead 


Sudden 
Foreign 
De-link 

Illusion 

Arrest 

Fear 

Deceptive 

Provocative 

Shadow 

Gas 


Mystic 

Spiritual 

Block 

Detached 

Dejection 

Break 

Liberate 

Bondage 

Alloy 


Profession 


Promotions 


Name, Fame 


Rewards 


Nature of work 


Work condition 


Progress 


Fathers Earning 


Career 


Knees 


Mother in law 


Spouse Comfort 


12th to El. Bro. 
2nd to Father 
4th to Spouse 
6th to Children 
7th to Mother 
8th to Siblings 


Fire-Bile 

Pitta 

Bones 

Right Eye 

Heart 

Skeleton 


Cold Blood 

Left Eye 

Lungs 

Urinary 

Bladder 

Circulatory 

system 


Fire-Bile 

Blood 

cells 

Marrow 

Eyebrow 

Heart 

Teeth 

Muscles 


Air-Gas 

Hands 

Neck 

Forehead 

Shoulders 

Tongue 

Skin 


Ether-Gas 

Fat 

Brain 

Thigh 

Feet 

Mose 

Liver 

Glands 


Water 

Meha 

Cold 

Semen 

Face 

Uterus 

Ovaries 

Cheek 

Fluids 


Air 

Gas 

Digestive 

Buttock 

Knees 

Foreleg 

Chin 

Nerve 

Secretions 


Air-Fire 

Gas 

Dilution 

Intestine 

Ear 

Head 

Mouth 

Lips 

Tubes 


Fire-Bile 

Blocks 

Nails 

Hair 

Anus 

Private 

part 

Valves 

Growths 



Co 



o 
o 

o 



O 
o 

1 

CD 



Combine the Planets 


as Sign Lord, Star Lord and Sub Lord in Relation to Houses 




If linked to 


SUN 


D MOO 


<? MAR 


¥ MER 


21 JUP 


$ VEN 


t* SAT 


a RAH 


XJ KET 


11th House 


Honour 

Authority 

Father 

Politics 

De-link 

Express 

Name 

Fame 

Health 

Gold 


Flow 

Mind 

Fickle 

Fraud 

Emotion 

Mother 

Water 

Respond 

Travel 

React 

Un-steady 

Silver 


Dare 

Debt 

Action 

Sibling 

Haste 

Enemy 

Violence 

Accidents 

Surgery 

Iron 


Intelligent 

Education 

Friend 

Trade 

Speech 

Convey 

Analyse 

Liberal 

Communi- 

-cations 

Mercury 


Money 

Progeny 

Law 

Wisdom 

Expand 

Justice 

Protection 

Religion 

Optimism 

Tin 


Marriage 

Spouse 

Joy 

Attract 

Wealth 

Arts 

Comforts 

Pleasures 

Fortune 

Unite 

Copper 


Profession 

Steady 

Limit 

Discipline 

Delay 

De-link 

Land 

Lazy 

Setbacks 

Blame 

Lead 


Sudden 

Foreign 

De-link 

Illusion 

Arrest 

Fear 

Deceptive 

Provocative 

Shadow 

Gas 


Mystic 

Spiritual 

Block 

Detached 

Dejection 

Break 

Liberate 

Bondage 

Alloy 


Fulfilments 


Hopes 


Profits 


Gains 


Success 


Political 


Friends 


Satisfaction 


Income 


Calf muscles 


Elder Brother 


-Paternal Uncle 


1st to El. Brother 


Fire-Bile 


Cold Blood 


Fire-Bile 


Air-Gas 


Ether-Gas 


Water 


Air 


Air-Fire 


Fire-Bile 


3rd to Father 


Pitta 


Left Eye 


Blood 


Hands 


Fat 


Meha 


Gas 


Gas 


Blocks 


5th to Spouse 


Bones 


Lungs 


cells 


Neck 


Brain 


Cold 


Digestive 


Dilution 


Nails 


7th to Children 


Right Eye 


Urinary 


Marrow 


Forehead 


Thigh 


Semen 


Buttock 


Intestine 


Hair 


8th to Mother 


Heart 


Bladder 


Eyebrow 


Shoulders 


Feet 


Face 


Knees 


Ear 


Anus 


9th to Siblings 


Skeleton 


Circulatory 


Heart 


Tongue 


Nose 


Uterus 


Foreleg 


Head 


Private 






system 


Teeth 


Skin 


Liver 


Ovaries 


Chin 


Mouth 


part 








Muscles 




Glands 


Cheek 

Fluids 


Nerve 
Secretions 


Lips 
Tubes 


Valves 
Growths 



o 

S" 

-t 

03 

0> 
Co 

CD 

9- 

% 

CO 

'-♦. 
CD 

3 
■ 

CD 

O 

a 

CO 



CO 
CJ1 



Combine the Planets as Sign Lord, Star Lord and Sub Lord in Relation to Houses 


If linked to 


SUN 


£ MOO 


<? MAR 


? MER 


21 JUP 


$ VEN 


h SAT 


a RAH 


V KET 


12th House 


Honour 

Authority 

Father 

Politics 

De-link 

Express 

Name 

Fame 

Health 

Gold 


Flow 

Mind 

Fickle 

Fraud 

Emotion 

Mother 

Water 

Respond 

Travel 

React 

Un-steady 

Silver 


Dare 

Debt 

Action 

Sibling 

Haste 

Enemy 

Violence 

Accidents 

Surgery 

Iron 


Intelligent 

Education 

Friend 

Trade 

Speech 

Convey 

Analyse 

Liberal 

Communi- 

-cations 

Mercury 


Money 

Progeny 

Law 

Wisdom 

Expand 

Justice 

Protection 

Religion 

Optimism 

Tin 


Marriage 

Spouse 

Joy 

Attract 

Wealth 

Arts 

Comforts 

Pleasures 

Fortune 

Unite 

Copper 


Profession 

Steady 

Limit 

Discipline 

Delay 

De-link 

Land 

Lazy 

Setbacks 

Blame 

Lead 


Sudden 

Foreign 

De-link 

Illusion 

Arrest 

Fear 

Deceptive 

Provocative 

Shadow 

Gas 


Mystic 

Spiritual 

Block 

Detached 

Dejection 

Break 

Liberate 

Bondage 

Alloy 


Disappointment 


Displacement 


Asylum-Jail 


Death 


De-Link 


Foreign Travel 


Expenses-Loss 


Bed comfort 


Sin-Bondage 


Feet 


Negating Self 


2nd to El. Bro. 


2nd to El. Bro. 
4th to Father 
6th to Spouse 
8th to Children 
9th to Mother 
10th to Siblings 


Fire-Bile 

Pitta 

Bones 

Right Eye 

Heart 

Skeleton 


Cold Blood 

Left Eye 

Lungs 

Urinary 

Bladder ■ 

Circulatory 

system 


Fire-Bile 

Blood 

cells 

Marrow 

Eyebrow 

Heart 

Teeth 

Muscles 


Air-Gas 

Hands ' 

Neck 

Forehead 

Shoulders 

Tongue 

Skin 


Ether-Gas 

Fat 

Brain 

Thigh 

Feet 

Nose 

Liver 

Glands 


Water 
Meha 
Cold 

Semen 

Face 

Uterus 

Ovaries 

Cheek 

Fluids 


Air 

Gas 

Digestive 

Buttock 

Knees 

Foreleg 

Chin 

Nerve 

Secretions 


Air-Fire 

Gas 

Dilution 

Intestine 

Ear 

Head 

Mouth 

Lips 

Tubes 


Fire- Bile 

Blocks 

Nails 

Hair 

Anus 

Private 

part 

Valves 

Growths 



CO 
03 



o 
o 

er 

o 

CD 
CO 

o 



3 

3 

CD 

CO 

1' 

g 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 359 



With this information one can arrive at the nearest possible 
predictive matters relating to each house with logical combination 
of sign lord, star lord and sub lord with that of each house and 
taking into account the effect of Karakatwa of each planet for a 
given ascendant. 

Main principles of K P 

In this system importance is given to star level as 
signification factor, therefore the sub area lords are also treated 
as planets ^nd the signification of these sub level planets are 
also to be considered for harmony of the significations. That is 
a planet will be a significator of houses owned by a star lord 
and occupied by him. Let us say Jupiter is in a star whose lord 
is owner of 2, 7 and posited in 5 then Jupiter will be signifier of 
houses 2, 7, and 5. Jupiter is entitled to give the results of these 
houses during his period. This is a confirmed matter. The effective 
results whether it is a good or bad experience will be decided 
by Bhukti lords based on their harmony with the lord giving the 
results during his Dasha. Therefore Jupiter as indicator of houses 
2, 7, 5 must be in a Sub (that is bhukti) area whose lord by his 
star level signification must be in harmony with the houses 
indicated by the Jupiter responsible to give Dasha results. 
Suppose Jupiter falls in the sub area(that is bhukti) of a planet 
who by his star lord indicates houses 1, 6, 8 then the results of 
Jupiter is negated by the sub area(that is bhukti). Therefore 
Jupiter signifying houses 2, 7, 5 is not considered as beneficial 
planet for that matter. 

This has relevance to the traditional concept of harmony 
between Dasha and Bhukti lord by virtue of their functional, 
natural qualities, friendship and enmity qualifications. 

To expand coverage of houses, exemptions are introduced 
in identifying the significators. 

a. If there is no planet in any of the stars of the planet then 
the planet itself will be the significator of the house it owns 
and occupy. This is simple reverting to traditional rule that 



360 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

a planet gives in its Dasha period the houses owned and 
occupied. Interestingly this planet which has no planet in 
its star is considered a very strong significator. 

b. Planets in aspect with the significator will also be eligible to 
give the results of the planet. This also is from the traditional 
concept of aspectual relationship. 

One rule that is popularly advocated in KP is to find the 
fructification of a particular matter. As said earlier every matter 
of life is indicated by more than two houses as group. For 
example whether marriage is promised or not is to be worked 
out by considering the houses 7 th 2 nd and 11 th houses. For this 
concept of sub area is brought into action. Since 7 th house is 
pivotal for marriage the sub area of 7 th cusp is considered. This 
static area represented by the planet as sub lord is dignified as 
a Dynamic planet. If this sub lord is in the star of a planet who 
owns and occupy houses 6, 1 or 10 which are detrimental to 
hquses 7 th , 2, and 11 then marriages will not take place. If that 
planet either by occupation or lordship indicate 2 or 11 any one 
of it then the marriage is promised. Even if the star planet 
indicate any one out of 1, 6, 10, 8, 12 and also indicate either 2 
or 11 then also marriage is promised but it indicates some marital 
problems. 

If you. observe carefully, this rule has been applied in 
assessing individual Bhava and the effects of these Bhava as 
explained earlier. 

If a matter is promised by such positive configuration of 
houses by a sub as planet, then if that planet is a prime 
signficator for marriage matter because he will be definitely 
appearing in the planetary list and being a signficator he wilt 
participate in Dasha also. 

Logically if we observe the effective rules of KP it is based 
on harmonic theory between static zodiac areas and dynamic 
planetary positions in those areas. The static area as a 
component sub is given the dignity of a dynamic planet. Planets 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 361 

then are assessed through their star position to signify the 
houses. These signified houses which are in harmony with the 
static houses grouped for a matter will yield desired good effects 
during the period of significators and those are not in harmony 
will give bad results. 

However, in KP neither the lord of the house nor the planets 
themselves are involved in direct results of any houses. Each 
planet will activate certain houses owned and occupied by the 
lord of star in which it is posited and is called a signifier of those 
houses. 

The primary rules of KP to identify significator for a 
house: 

1. If there are no planet in the stars of occupant then the 
occupant itself become strong significator of that house. 

2. Planets in the star of occupants of a house are (medium) 
strong signficators of that house 

3. Planets as occupants even though there are planets in the 
stars of occupant as 2 nd grade signficators 

4. Lords of the house when there are no planets in their stars 
strong 3 rd grade significators 

5. Planets in the stars of lords of a house as (medium) strong 
3 rd grade signficators 

6. Lords of the houses when there are planets in their stars 
4 th grade signficator 

7. Planets in aspect to these signficator as 5 th grade 
significators 

In other words: 

1. A Planet will signify the houses owned and occupied by its 
star Lord 



362 



Roots ofNaadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



2. If no planet in its stars the planet itself will be significator 
for houses owned and occupied 

3. Planets in aspect to these signficators will also be 
significators. 

This is how the great master links the static space factor 
with Dynamic planets. 

This is clearer in the Hypothized chart (I) illustration (II) 
given below: 



RAH-Ju-Sa-Ve 


MAR-Ma-Ke-Ju 


JUP-Ve-Ma-Sat 




II-HOUSE 


III-HOUSE 


IV-HOUSE 


V-HOUSE 




1 SAT 


MAR SAT 






2 JUP ! 


5AT MER 






3 MAR 1 


l/EN VEN 


VI- HOUSE 




4 VEN 


MOO JUP 


VII-HOUSE 




5 MER 


RAH JUP 






6 MOO . 

7 MOO 


JUP RAH 
MER SAT 




'/ 




8 MER ! 


SUN MER 




ASC HOUSE 


9 VEN 


RAH MER 




XII-HOUSE 


10 MAR 


SAT RAH 




SAT-Sa-Su-Ju 


11 JUP 


KET SAT 






12 SAT 


SUN JUP 




MER-Ju-Ve-Ve 








SUN-Ju-Ke-Me 




M00-Ve-Ra-Me 




XI-HOUSE 


X-HOUSE 


IX-HOUSE 


VIII-HOUSE 




VEN-Ma-Sa-Ra 




KET-Me-Su-Ve 



Cusp Sign Lord, Star Lord, Sub Lord positions of House given in inset. 
Planetary Sign Lord, Star Lord and Sub Lords given against planets 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 



363 



Dynamic 
Planet 








Space factor 






5/GN 
JUP 
VEH 

MAR 
JUP 
VEN 

UAR 
SAT 
JUP 

MER 






LORD 
OF 


POSITTED 
IN 


Sign 
Lord 




J| 


SUB 
MER 
MER 
JUP 
VEN 
SAT 
RAH 
JUP 
VEN 
VEN 






Planet 
SUN 
MOO 
MAR 
MER 
JUP 
VEN 
SAT 
RAH 
KET 


KET 
RAH 
KET 
VEN 
MAR 
SAT 
SUN 
SAT 
SUN 


House 


P<*Jte< 


t 




star 


Sub 


1 








SAT 


MAR 


SAT 


II 


MAR 


RAH 




JUP 


SAT 


MER 


III 








MAR 


VEW 


VEH 


IV 


JUP 






VEN 


MOO 


J«P 


V 








MER 


RAH 


JUP 


VI 








MOO 


JUP 


RAH 


VH 








MOO 


MEW 


SAT 


VIB 


KET 






MER 


SM 


MER 


IX 


VEN 


MOO 




VEN 


RAH 


MER 


X 








MAR 


SAT 


RAH 


StGNtFK 


mm 


XI 


SAT 


MER 


SUN 


JUP 


KET 


SAT 


l 


I 


X» 








SAT 


SUN 


JUP 














STAR 
SfGNtF 


CAT0R 


s [No 




NO PLANETS IN 
THEIR STARS 




' ' 


Sba 


ded = SUr 


slgflflcatio 


n - Un shaded Ptarwtsignffcatlon | 



This is the beauty of the excellente work of Professor linking 
the dynamic planets in most convincing manner to the space 
factor of their star position and then linking those space factors 
to the cusps either through occupation or lordship. 

This is one part of the predictive technique to find out the 
signficators to houses. Out of these signficators the Dasha lord 
will be identified for an event indicated by houses. 



364 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Assessment part: 

Professor introduces a unique two method theory: 

1. To assess whether a house will fructify or not, the cusp 
sub lord is assessed 

2. To assess the strength of signficator the sub lord of the 
planet will be assessed. 

This structured approach is shown below: (Refer, example 
data) 

For example 7 th house matter is to be examined whether 
marriage is promised or not; we shall take the 7 th Cusp. 











Assessment portion 


House 


Posited 


Sign Lord 


Star 


Sub 


in Star 


is Lord of 


Posited 


VII 


No Planet 


Moo 


Mer 


Sat 


Sun 


No House 


11 th 



Sub lord of the 7 th cusp is Sat. Saturn is in the star of Sun. 
7 th Lordship is covered by 6 th house lord Moon who spreads his 
7 th house lordship over Leo. Therefore Sun do not get the 
lordship. Sun is posited in 11 th house. 

According to rule the 7 th cusp lord should indicate any one 
house from the marriage group houses that is 2, 7, and 11. 
Saturn sub lord through its star lord is indicating 11 th house by 
Sun's position. Therefore, marriage is promised. Since the event 
is promised we should now see who will give the marriage 
through significator of 7 th house. 

We apply the signficator rule. 

7 th house has no planet posited. We must find the planet 
posited in the star of 7 th lord. 7 th lord is Moon. There is no 
planet in the star of Moon. Therefore: 

Significator of 7 th house is Moon 

2 nd house: 

2 nd house has two planets posited in it, Mars and Rahu. 
Catch the planets posited in Ketu stars of Mars and Rahu. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 



365 



Planet posited in Mars's star = Jupiter 

Planet posited in Rahu's star = Moon 

2 nd Lord is Jupiter. We have to take the planet posited in 
Jupiter's star. 

Planets in Jupiter's star= No planet in its star. 2 nd lord Jupiter 
itself is significator 

2 nd house signficators are: Jupiter, and Moon . 

11 th house 

Planets in 11 th house- Saturn, Mercury and Sun. catch the 
planets in their stars. 

In the Star of Saturn = Rahu and Venus 

In the Star of Mercury = No planets therefore take Mercury 

In the Star of Sun = Saturn 

Lord of 11 th is Jupiter: in its star: No planet is posited: So 
take Jupiter 

Marriage event signficators: MOO-JUP-RAH-VEN- 
MER-SAT 

These planets are entitled to give Marriage during their 
periods. 

Now the 2 nd module of testing comes in to picture: That is 
strength of these planets. 

Significator if they are in the sub of a planet, who is 
signficator of 1, 6, 10, will be weak significator to be eliminated. 



Planet 


Sign 


Star 


Sub 


Lord 
of 


m 


Sub in 
star of 


Lord 
of 


IN 


MOO 


VEN 


RAH 


MER 


5,8 


11 


VEN 


4,9 


9 


JUP 


VEN 


MAR 


SAT 


1 T 12 


11 


SUN 


NIL 


11 


RAH 


JUP 


SAT 


VEN 


4 t 9 


9 


SAT 


1,12 


11 


VEN 


MAR 


SAT 


RAH 




2 


SAT 


1 f 12 


11 


MER 


JUP 


VEN 


VEN 


4 T 9 


9 


SAT 


1/12 


11 


SAT 


SAT 


SUN 


JUP 


2,11 


4 


MAR 


3,10 


2 



366 Roots of Naadt Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

In this analysis only Jup, Rah, Ven, Mer are indicating 
predominantly 11 th house through star level in positional dignity. 

This period the marriage should take place: 

Identifying significators, qualifying the matter, qualifying 
the signficator are the structured approach in KP introduced by 
Professor KSK. 

Cusp Sub lord: 

The deeper technicalities are also introduced by Professor 
when there is confusion or irrelevant significator are derived for 
an event. 

This theory Professor himself adopts in his work in reader 
III Advanced Stellar Astrology - Practical section while dealing 
with a case study of "overseas" in page 148. 

Quote: 

"4f times when the analysis ofBhava does not point 
out a particular planet as signficator or whenever there 
is some confusion in regard to selection of significators 
for particular point in consideration, the cusps alone 
come to our rescue and solve our problem — Now the 
principle to be commonly applied is very simple. Mark 
where a particular cusp lies, what its constellation is 
and what its sub is. Further mark whether any planet is 
posited in the constellation of the constellation lord of 
the cusp. If so take that planet as significator. If no 
planet is posited in its constellation, consider that very 
planet alone. 

Similarly mark who the sub lord of a particular cusp 
is. Further notice whether any planet is posited in its 
constellation. If so that planet will be a very strong 
signficator, because according to KP it is the sub and 
sub alone which decides a particular matter" 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 



367 



This drives us to two important rules to identify special 
signficators as follows: 

1 A planet in the star of a cusp sub lord will also be a 
significator to the houses represented by this cusp sub lord 

2 A planet in the star of a star lord of cusp will also be a 
significator to the houses represented by this cusp star lord 

Please note the importance given to the cusp sub lord 
prompted by a planet in its star appearing as signficator, by 
none other than Professor himself. 

Quote: "If so that planet will be a very strong 
signficator, because according to KP it is the sub and 
sub alone which decides a particular matter" 

We illustrate the above 1 st principle for the example. 



Pl»n« 


SIGN 


STAR 


sue 


LORD 
OF 


POSITTEDIN 


Sign 
Lord 


(MMt 


Sub 


Hout* 




SUN 
MOO 

m& 

HER 


VEN 
MAti 
JVP 

5AF 


KET 
RAH 

KET 
VEN 

■«atV 

SUN 


MER 
HER 

jyp 
vet* 

SAT 
RAH^, 

VEN 
VEN 


i 








SAT 


^MT 


tei> 


II 


MAR 


RAH 




^< 


SAT 


AflSfc 


ill 




' 




MAR 


V0f 


whw 


IV 


JVP 






VEN 


fttOO 


Jtfp 


V ^ 








M£R 


JWH 


JUP 


VEN< 










MOO 


JWP 


ftfitf 


SAT 














^r) 














RAH 




-^EI 






M£R 


%m 




KET 


tx 


VEN^ 






VEN 


.*WW 


ME/? 


X 








*4aa^ 


SAT 


W* 


XI 


SAT 


MER 


SUN 


JUP 


>Stsi 


§*D 


Xtl 








SAT 


5*/W 


\fut* 


VE 


MANOR 


AHU SIGNIFY 71 


WCUSP 11 TH CUSP ANO 1ST CUSP STRONGLY 



Imp: This is the key factor. How this most important 
factor escaped the attention of intelligent KP scholars 
earlier is a matter of surprise. Of late some intelligent 
KP follower noticed this and elaborated this principle 



368 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



with logical explanation adding a few more useful details 
and published it as an innovative experiment work 
suffixed his name to it as new system. Plagiarized 
versions of this new work was elegantly presented 
reorganizing the contents by others without attributing 
any credentials to its origins. 

Though Professor advocates cusp star also to be 
considered similarly, his emphasis on the cusp sub logically is 
more convincing and in application it repeatedly works. That is 
the reason he declares that even if the signficators fail, these 
planets in the star of cusp sub lords activating the house will 
have more importance. That means this principle will become 
the prime importance which overrides the significator. 

Sub lord of Planet; 

We have seen that Professor includes a module to testify 
the significator that is a Planet through its star lord indicates its 
signification. Then the Sub lord of that planet through its Star 
position will indicate whether the signification will be fruitful or 
not. 



In the above example 


' 












Planet 


Sign 


Star 


Sub 


Lord 
of 


IN 


Sub In 
star of 


Lord 
of 


IN 


MOO 


VEN 


RAH 


MER 


5, 8 


11 


VEN 


4,9 


9 


JUP 


VEN 


MAR 


SAT 


1,12 


11 


SUN 


NIL 


11 


RAH 


JUP 


SAT 


VEN 


4,9 


9 


SAT 


1,12 


11 


VEN 


MAR 


SAT 


RAH 




2 


SAT 


1,12 


11 


MER 


JUP 


VEN 


VEN 


4,9 


9 


SAT 


1,12 


11 


SAT 


SAT 


SUN 


JUP 


2,11 


4 


MAR 


3,10 


2 



Jup Rah Ven Mer through their stars lord of sub lords 

have indicated 11 th house and therefore they were qualified as 
fruitful significators for marriage. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 369 



New concept derived from the above original principle: 

When the planet is qualified through a star position of sub 
lord why that sub lord as planet should not be a signficator? 
This logic drives down that when a sub qualifies the planet of 
its signification, through its lordship and position also through 
its star position this is equated with the planet. 

According to rule planet will be signficator subject to not 
having any planet in its star. If there is a planet in its star, then 
the planet will signify through its star. 

Since sub is equated with planet the sub lord as a planet 
will signify its lordship and occupation if it does not have any 
planet in its star. If there is a planet in its star, then the sub will 
signify through its star. 

This drives down to 4 stages of significations of planets as 
shown below, which is actually the derivative point from the 
work of Professor KSK. 

1 st level significator is Planet itself 

2 nd level significator is Star planet (Planet in the star) 

3 rd level significator is Sub lord as planet (Planet in sub) 

4 th level significator is Star lord of Sub lord (Sub in Star) 

(Qualifier) 

Logically this sounds right, and there is nothing wrong in 
taking sub as signficator because the ultimate decisive power 
lies with the sub. 

This original concept divided into 4 stages is re-introduced 
by modern authors with modified additional presentation 
techniques as new found theory. 

Modern KP system has undergone many changes with 
minutes divisions like sub sub sub levels. There are artistic and 
graphical presentations with excellent narratives about KP on 
the internet. Internet is fully loaded with KP astrologer's sites 



370 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



some of them commercial and some are generous. Some of the 
well-known scholars in south India have mixed up other system 
in KP and written books in vernacular language. Some technical 
youngsters have done wonderful job on KP software and 
generously posted on internet for free download. 

Other points of analysis: 

In this method of finding out signficators for each Bhava, 
at times many planets will emerge as significator for a particular 
Bhava. The strength of each significator is assessed separately 
one based on the natural order of strength of Planets, their sign 
based dignities like debilitation or enemy association, their sub 
level negative significations, their natural signification in relation 
to the Bhava under examination and the sign qualities are all 
considered for assessment. 

With these fundamental let us try to understand its 
application on a practical example horoscope: 

The scribe has introduced table formats to identify 
signficators which will be useful for prediction. In this the above 
said KP original principle and logically acceptable modifications 
are included. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 



371 



Example horoscope 


i p 










360 ^^^| 


KE10°06' KE-SA 


JU(R)06°01' 5U-ME 


60 


21°47' 


House 1 


24°53' 


House 2 


22°25' 


House 3 


17°43' 


House 4 


JUP 


MER-5UN 


MAR 


VEN-MER 


VEN 


MOO-VEN 


MER 


RAH-5UN 


330 


KE10°06' KE-SA 
30 


30 60 


90 


330 


Male born on 22-10-1976 
at 17:00 hrs. Hyderabad 


90 


15°21' 


House 12 


14°18' 


House 5 


SAT 


RAH-VEN 


MOO 


SAT-RAH 


300 


SA22°14* 


ME-MO 
120 


300 


12Q 


14°18' 


House 11 


15°21' 


House 6 


SAT 


MOO-JUP 


SUN 


VEN-VEN 


270 


150 


270 






150 


17 43 T 


House 10 


22°25' 


House 9 


24°53" 


House 8 


21°47' 


House 7 


JUP 


VEN-MAR 


MAR 


MER-MOO 


VEN 


JUP-MER 


MER 


MOO-VEN 


240 


VE-08 C 42' Sa-Ve 
240 210 


MA-15°52' RA-VE 

RA-10°06' RA-JU 

SU-05°45' MA-MO 

210 180 


ME-25°13 
Mo-25°19 


MA-RA 
MA-RA 

180 



372 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



Cusp details are tabled below: 


House 


Degree 


Star 


Star 
lord 


Sub 
lord 


Hou- 
-ses 


in 

Star 

of 


Hou- 
-ses 


cusp 
sub 


1 st 


21 Pi 47' 


Revati 


MER 


SUN 


6, in 7 


MAR 


2, 9 in 7 




2nd 


24 Ar S3 1 


Bharani 


VEN 


MER 


4, 7 in 7 


MAR 


2, 9 in 7 


10 


3* 


22 Ta 25' 


Rohini 


MOO 


VEN 


3, 8 in 8 


SAT 


11, 12 in 5 




4th 


17 Ge 43' 


Ardra 


RAH 


SUN 


6, in 7 


MAR 


2, 9 in 7 


10 


5 th 


14 Cn 18" 


Pushyami 


SAT 


RAH 


8 in 7 


RAH 


2, 9 in 7 


10 


6 th 


15 Le 21" 


P.Phalguni 


VEN 


VEN 


3, 8 in 8 


SAT 


11, 12 in 5 




7th 


21 Vi 47' 


Hasta 


MOO 


VEN 


3, 8 in 8 


SAT 


11, 12 in 5 




8 th 


24 Li 53' 


Visakha 


JUP 


MER 


4, 7 in 7 


MAR 


2 f 9 in 7 


10 


9* 


22 Sc 2S' 


Jyeshta 


MER 


MOO 


5, in 7 


MAR 


2, 9 in 7 


10 


10 th 


17 Sg 43' 


P.Shadha 


VEN 


MAR 


2, 9 in 7 


RAH 


2, 9 in 7 


10 


11 th 


14 Cp 18' 


Sravana 


MOO 


JUP 


1, 10 in 2 


SUN 


6 ; in 7 


4^9 


12 th 


15 Aq 21' 


Satabisha 


RAH 


VEN 


3,8,8 


KET 


2 in 1 


12 



The above chart is drawn exactly as prescribed by KP. 
Placidus house divisions are used wherein all the 12 cusps are 
marked and below that the Sign lord, Star Lord and Sub lords 
are boxed. Planetary positions based on their longitude 
identifiable in their respective cusp positions with their star and 
sub lords marked. 

Planet details: 

Sun-Ma-Ra 

Moo-Ma-Ra 

Mar-Ra-Ve 

Mer-Ma-Ra 

Jup-Su-Me 

Ven-Sa-Ve 

Sat-Me-Hu 

Rah-Ra-Ju 

Ket-Ke-Sa 



PARTI 



SECONDARY 

SIGNIFICATGN 


Star 


StGNBCATOR HAVING NO 
PLANETIN THEIR STAR 


s 


PRIMARY 
GNFICATION 


SUB 


Star of 
Sub 


SIGNFICATION 
STRENGTH 


Star Lord 

as Cusp 

lord 


Slar 

Plane! 

Lord or* 


in Star 
of 


Planet 


Position 


Lord 


In 


Csup 
Sub 


In the 
sub of 


sub In 

star 


Lord -In 


Cusp 
sub 


10 


2, 9 in 7 MAR 


MOO 


25-19* Virgo 


5 


7 


9 


RAH 


RAH 


8 In 7 


5 


1-4 


6. in 7 


SUN 


JUP® 


{R)O6*0V Taurus 


1,10 


2 


11 


MER 


MAR 


2.9in7 


10 




11,12ir 

„ 5 


SAT 


VEN 


08*4? Scorpio 


3,8 


8 


1-3-6-7 


VEN 


SAT 


11,12 In 5 





CD 

0) 

CD- 



0) 

£ 



PART li 



SECONDARY 
SJGMFICATON 


Slar 


SIGNFiCA 
1 


TOR HAVING PLANETS 
H WEIR STAR 


PRIMARY 
SIGNFICATION 


SUB 


Star of 
Sub 


SIGNFICATION 
STRENGTH 


Cusp 
Sub 


IN 


Lord of 


Planet 




Position 


IN 

STAR 

OF 


STAR PLANET 


In the 
sub of 


sub in 
star 


Lord -In 


Cusp 
sub 


Lord 


in 


Cusp sub 


1-4 


7 


6 


SUN 


05*45' Libra 


MAR 


2,9 


7 


7 


MOO 


MAR 


2 t 9in7 


10 


10 


7 


2,9 


MAR 


15*52* Libra 


RAH 


8 


7 


5 


VEN 


SAT 


11,12 In 5 




2-* 


7 


4.7 


MER 


25*13* Virgo 


MAR 


2.9 


7 


10 


RAH 


RAH 


8in7 


5 


■ 


5 


11,12 


SAT 


22*14' Cancer 


MER 


4,7 


7 


2*8 


SUN 


MAR 


2,9ln7 


10 


5 


7 


8 


RAH 


10*06* Libra 


RAH 


8 


7 


5 


JUP 


SUN 


6, in 7 


1*4 


12 


1 


2 


KET 


10*06* Aries 


KET 


2 


1 


12 


SAT 


MER 


4,7 in 7 


2»8 



o 

CO 



CO 
CO 



374 Roots of NqqcH Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

With information from the above chart a table is prepared 
to derive significators and the cusp relationships are shown in 
the table. 

The table has two parts: 

Part I Significators having no planets in their stars 

Part II Significators having planets in their stars 

In both the cases the signification of cusp sub lord position 
are indicated through the star planet where the planet is posited. 

Left hand side is the Secondary Signification and the right 
side is Primary significations. 



Vimsofteri Dasa: 



Jup MP: 2000-10-06 (22:45:18)- 2018-10-07 (1:11:13) 



Bhukfi 



Jup: 2000-1 0-06 (22:45:18) - 2002-1 1-24 (1 1 :41:25) 



Sat: 2002-1 1-24 (1 1 :41 :25) - 2005-06-04 (1 3:55:53) 



Merc 2005-06-04 (13:55:53)- 2007-09-13 (5:50:18) 



Ket: 2007-09-13 (5:50:18)- 2008-08-18 (16:32:03) 



Ven; 2008-08-18 (16:32:03)- 2011-04-16(11:16:53) 



Sun: 201 1-04-16 {1 1 :16:53) - 2012-02-03 (1 4:17:02) 



Moon: 2012-02-03 (14:17:02) - 2013-06-04 (15:13:04) 



Mars: 2013-06-04 (15:13:04) - 2014-05-10 (22:12:47) 



Rah: 2014-05-10 (22:12:47) - 2016-10-07 (1:11:13) 



The reading can be done with the help of the above tables 
taking into account significations of planets and houses & the 
Dasha Bhukti chart. 

The first house lord is Jupiter and star lord is Mercury 
and sub lord is Sun. It is an indication that this native will have 
his livelihood linked to, education, commercial, finance and luxury 
related and the sub is indicating 2, 9, 7 houses and therefore, 
he may change jobs and it may relate to foreign and medical 
related institutions. It is due to the fact that Ketu is posited in 
1 st being the lord of 2 nd which is a medical planet The presence 
of Ketu signifying the 2 nd house has always created problem in 
getting due financial benefits compared to others in the same 
cadre. Since we are talking of livelihood it is essential to see the 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 375 

10 th house also along with 1 st house. 10 th house lord is again 
Jupiter and it is in the star of Venus and it is in the sub of Mars 
which also indicate technicality and sub lord is in the star of 
Rahu indicating computer and foreign related, vehicle and 
military related matters. This person did job in Air force then 
later on shifted to computer, medical firms lastly settled down 
in a big MNC where in the transactions related to vehicles, finance 
and medical fields. His 2 nd house is ruled by sign lord Mars and 
star lord Venus and sub lord is Mercury, therefore his earning 
will be through commercial and machinery related organizations 
where in finance is the prime factor in his work field due to 
presence of Jupiter in 2 nd house. 

3 rd house lord is Venus, star lord is Moon and sub lord is 
Venus which is also in the star of Saturn. This indicates female 
domination in the siblings. This is a fact that this person is 
having only one sister. Because this feminine domination this 
person approach to life will be very soft and he lacks 
determination in certain area of life. 

4 th house sign lord is Mercury, star lord is Rahu and sub 
lord is Sun who is in the star of Mars. This person had many 
breaks in his education and changed his subject from technical 
to commercial at a later stage. Rahu, Mars and Mercury 
dominating in this house made this person effective in using 
computers in accounting matters. Mercury being lord of the 
house he took up commercial education. 4 th Lord is posited in 
7 th which is indicate business and being with Moon the 5 th lord 
which is 11 th to 7 th house given him an opportunity to do an 
institutional Business management education. 4 th Lord is linked 
with Karaka for mother Moon and 4 th house itself indicates 
mother, his mother was working in educational institution. 
Considering 4 th house as Lagna for mother the involvement of 
Rahu Sun and Mars and their presence in the 4 th house counted 
from 4 th house as Lagna indicate a heart related problem to 
mother. Moreover, Mars is 6 th lord counted from 4 th house and 
Sun is 3 rd lord indicating longevity. The maraka for 4 th house 
are Jupiter as 7 th lord and he is also Badhaka (for Chara Lagna 



376 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

11 th house, for Sthira Lagna 9 th and for Ubhaya Lagna 7 th is 
Badhaka) for Ubhaya Lagna Gemini of mother. Moon as Maraka 
being 2 nd Lord is placed in 4 th house counting from Mother's 
Lagna, 4 th house from mother's Lagna is having aspect of Jupiter 
both as maraka and badhaka. It is also influencing the Lagna 
and 4 th lord placed in 4 th and the Maraka lord Moon. During 
Jupiter Dasha and Jupiter Bhukti his mother expired due to 
heart attack. 

His marriage took place during Jupiter Dasha and Mercury 
Bhukti. 7 th house is ruled by sign lord Mercury, star lord Moon 
and Sub lord Venus. She is highly educated lady and good 
looking. She has cold related problems. Sub is in the star of 
Saturn and she is a working lady. 

Till the writing of this section, the native has no issues 
even after 3 years of Marriage. 5 th house has Saturn and Rahu 
ruling at star and sub levels. 

This way Naadi reading through KP can be more effective 
and merging with Dasha the timing can also be more precise. 

A planet signifying a required house is also in a sub which 
by its star position signifies houses which are harmonious to a 
matter, and then the planet signifying the required house is 
considered as strong. More so if the cusp position of these star 
lords are also harmonious. In the process of deriving signficators, 
number of planets appears to be more or less of same strength 
for a given matter In such cases the eliminating process becomes 
essential to pin point exact result giving planet as signficators 
for a particular matter which has to be identified with period's 
lords. For this purpose KP has a golden principle "Ruling planet". 
The ruling planets are taken at the time of assessment based 
on the following components. 

The star Lord of the Lagna (the star lord where Lagna cusp 
falls) 

The Lagna lord 

The Star lord of Moon 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 377 

The sign lord of Moon 
The Day lord 

(In case in any of the nodes occupy in any of the signs of 
lords said above they should be included) 

From this group, common planets emerging as signficators 
to Bhava is to be considered rests are to be eliminated. Thus 
we may get 3 or 4 planets which are strong contenders to offer 
results during their period. By sequencing them in the order of 
Dasha an event is timed to a greater accuracy. Further fine 
tuning of timing is done by transit theory. The houses owned, 
occupied and the cusps to which a planet ruling as sub lord are 
all activated by a planet transiting in its star is the main principle 
of KP. We know that the filtered signficators of an event are the 
sequential Dasha, Bhukti and Antara lords entitled to give the 
desired results. Therefore these dignified planets in their transit 
should activate the star lords who signify the required houses. 
This process will pin down the timing factor. Scholars 
experimented and claimed to pin point an event to take place 
on a particular day and hour. However we shall broadly accept 
that an event can be narrowed down to closer timing by this 
process. 

Wonderful logic is to relate a group of cusps for a particular 
matter of life and then collective signficators being identified, 
filtered, dignify them with their timing effect and then co-relate 
them with the present transit position in the star lords who 
harmonize the event. 

In this process, KP did include the planetary aspects and 
attributed the secondary signification to planets in aspect with 
signficators. The exaltation, debilitation, negative house 
significations, barren, fruitful, male, female, fiery, earthy, air 
and water elements of signs are all considered in assessing the 
matter. 

Sincere KP followers do adopt a deep analysis method, many 
take to snapshot procedure taking into broad principles that a 
Dasha lord to give results of Houses owned and occupied by 





















^fe 




o 






| 






A 






1 




S 




| 

6L 


1 






C 

VI 




Qu 


IB 
ST 




£ 


3* 


s- 






e 


3* 


i 




O" 




a 


G? 






O" 




"•* 






I 






1 






QU 






V 
























9 








i 


m 

X 






N» 


s 


C 


O 






















o 






















MM 






















se 


s 


•*j 


ID 


1 






it 


*»* 


0* 


z 






















1. 

3 










i 












1 
























3f 








s 












fp 


f 


u> 


*w 


vt 


8 












I 


s 

o 






















3* 


8 


KJ 


<0 


g 






S 


^ 


1* 


5 


5 
2 



Xpn^ 9Afsu9Lf9jdLuoQ v :ABo{oj}Stf ypee/v ;o sjoo^/ 



WC 



Steifar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 379 

him (if there is no Planet in his star) 

Houses owned and occupied by the planet lord of the star 
where the Dasha lord is posited. 

These results will get modified by the Sub lord who by his 
star signification will either support or negate the houses signified 
by Dasha lord. 

The sub lord himself may participate to support or negate 
the houses signified by Dasha lord 

Let us take the example of Jupiter Dasha, Sun Bhukti, which 
is current in the above example: 

Jupiter is the Dasha Lord and there are no planets in the 
star of Jupiter therefore, the houses signified by Jupiter that is 
as Lord of 1, 10 and his position in 2 nd house and his cusp lord 
ship of 11 th house are ail active during the period of Dasha. In 
fact the native got settled professional life during Jupiter Dasha. 
Since Jupiter is in the sub of Mercury and Mercury has planets 
in its star it gives the effect of its star lord Mars, who indicate 2, 
9, 7 and 10. That is During the Jupiter Dasha the native will 
have change of jobs and also foreign journey This native had 
many official foreign trips and had changes in job. 

In Sun bhukti: There is planet in Sun's star therefore Sun 
will give the result of Mars who is the star lord of Sun. Mars 
owns 2, 9 and posited in 7 and he is the star sub indicating 10 th 
cusp. Sun is in the sub of Moon who has no planets in tis star 
and Moon indicates 5 th and 7 th . The Native during this period 
changed the company and took one month's time to join. This 
one month he had no pay. This is due to the operation of 5 th 
house which is negative house for 6 th house labor. 

The karaka effects of planets that is Jupiter, Sun and Mars 
if taken into consideration we can say that the new job relates 
to a medical firm. Native Sun is debilitated and therefore native 
is not involved directly in medicine but medical related activity. 
If we go deeper into Naadi Jupiter is Jeeva karaka that is life, 
Sun who is with Mars and Rahu in natal chart indicate ill health 



380 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

factors to Jeeva Rahu "indicate number of people therefore more 
Jeeva, Sun is medical planet, Jupiter is finance, Mars is an 
assurance and in natal chart they are in the 8 th sign relating to 
death and insurance. Therefore it indicates Medical insurance 
company. 

This sort of snapshot method though works out well it is 
always recommended to go through the structured principle to 
get hold of the real secret behind the prediction through stellar 
astrology. 

As a matter of fact Professor Krishnamurti did not give any 
scope to include new theory and covered flawlessly almost all 
the point. Despite the fact this system has some defined 
approach yet it is not complete as compared to classical 
approaches. In fact majority of predictive principles from classical 
works if merged with this structured approach it would perhaps 
meets the requirement of entire naadi system. 

Some of them have gone further ahead in analysis by taking 
into account further divisions which will include more number 
of significations. Some scholars go in detail analysis of each 
house separately with their significators and go in for elimination 
of weak significators and then match them to Dasha lord. Some 
use classical approach and then revert to KP analysis and arrive 
at combined formula to give predictions. A few of scholars use 
the stellar position and rest they attribute to classical analysis. 

Though Professor cited on many occasions the effective 
principles of Moon Lagna, in later times quoting a reason of 
twin births which is an epoch of less than 0.2% for birth rates, 
withdrew the use of Moon Lagna. It is better to reconsider this 
and use it in general cases and refrain when such twin birth 
charts are to be analyzed. 

The KSK attributed malefic effects to planets not by their 
natural qualities but due to their functional disharmony in relation 
to their association with houses. However the strength of the 
planets are also based on the natural strength of planets and 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 381 



also their functional dignities coupled with their exaltation, own 
house though there are references to friendship and enmity not 
much importance is attached to it in comparison with their star 
and sub level dignities. Most importance is given to retrograde 
planets as negative significator. This is exactly the Naadi principle 
wherein a retro planet will signify the effects of previous sign. 
This rule is applied with the same concept that 12 th house to 
any house is detrimental to desired matter. 

Some of the fundamentals needs some clarification: 

Whether true or mean nodes 

Due to erratic movement of nodes, there will be change in 
quick succession either retro or direct motion. However, their 
mean motion is always retrograde. There will be a few degree 
differences between true and mean nodes. If this difference is 
ignored the whole analysis will be upset. Apart from this in the 
mean nodes, the effect of direct motion not reflected which is 
similar to that of retrograde effect of planet. The analysis part 
will be misleading particularly, when the nodes shoulder the 
responsibility of offering results. It is absolutely a matter of 
spot decision to cross check the computational part and adhere 
to true nodes especially when Rahu and Ketu becomes the 
absolute signifiers 

The role of retrograde planet 

The role of retrograde planet is still a matter of debate and 
there are diverse opinion heralded by many stalwarts. However, 
Prof. KSK attaches an important factor saying that a planet in 
retrogression will not give the result of its signification. There is 
volume of information hidden behind this statement. It is beyond 
doubt that there is a motion of reversal. This fact made Prof 
KSK to attach reversal result to the planet. If you read between 
the lines, there is a secret lying here. "A retrograde planet does 
not give result, " it means: 



382 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

1 The planet will not give its signified results. 

2 The planet will give results, which are opposite to its 
signification. 

These 2 points have different meaning attached to it. 

In the first case, it will not give any results. In the second 
case, it will give opposite results of its signification. 

If you consider first point, a planet when operative cannot 
be silent without participating in any results. Since it is active in 
its period, it must give some results. 

Then we need to consider the second point. If so, why 
should it oppose the results? Is it because of reverse movement? 
Why should it matter as long as it is moving in the heavens? 
This forces us to accept the view that the planet is influencing 
some other houses due to its reverse motion. One such thought 
provoking theory is promoted by Late Sri M P Shanmugam in 
his Astro-Secrets. 

Quote Extract: W A planet may be owner of one or two houses. 
For example Kumbha Lagna, Jupiter is the rightful owner of 
houses 2 & 11 as such he is a vyayadhipathi to houses 3 and 

12 In the normal course he will give opposite results of 3 

and 12 and when this Jupiter when it is retrograde will not be 
able to give the opposite results and will give results of 3 and 
12/" 

This is other way round, Lord of 2 and 11 will give the 
results of opposite results of 3, 12 in the normal course that is 
he is giving the result of 2 and 11 which is 12 th to 3 rd and 12 th . 
When retrograde he does not give this opposite results and 
gives results of 3 and 12. 

Ironically, there is a shift in lordship itself. Lordships based 
on static chart, and the planetary positions are dynamic. This 
logic would have been convincing if Jupiter were to be in, say in 
11 th house and by retrograde he is deprived of his 11 th position 
and gives results of 10 th which is vyaya to 11 th house thereby 
instead of profit the efforts are increased. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 383 

Surprisingly, there are several reports, by few astrologers 
who have adopted the vyayadhipathi theory and proved that it 
works. However, since in KP least importance is given to lordship 
this rule is of no significance to us. 

We do attach very importance to position of a planet in a 
house. Now if a planet is in a house and it is retrograde in 
classical approach it is considered equaling exaltation. Therefore, 
this planet cannot be ignored. This planet must give some results 
either positive or negative. In Naadi system, retrograde planets 
are empowered to give results of previous sign. This logic is 
convincing because in our experience we have records of 
retrograde planet getting the significations of previous sign and 
the planet posited in it. 

Prof KSK in his introductory lectures relates his stellar 
experiments to Naadi system. Therefore, safely we can rely 
upon the principle of Naadi with regard to retrograde planets. 
we will explain this with an example and then import the rule to 
KP horary system. 

Suppose Jupiter is retrograde in the eighth house. Any planet 
in its star should give eighth house results. However, since Jupiter 
is retro and not concerned with eighth house this planet in the 
star of Jupiter will not give results of 8 th house. If this Jupiter by 
his retro motion reaches 7 th house at any given point of time 
then we can say that this planet in his star will give 7 th house 
results instead of 8 th house results. If the planet is retrograde in 
the same 8 th house and does not cross the limit of 8 th house in 
retro motion, then this planet gives neither 7 th house result nor 
supports 8 th house results. This is as far as planetary position of 
Jupiter is concerned. However, the same planet in Jupiter star 
will be able to activate the cusp sub, star and lordships of Jupiter, 
which are static by nature. For example if Jupiter is sub lord of 
2 and star Lord of 5 and lord of 11 there should be no objection 
to the planet posited in Jupiter star to offer these house results 
as a star signifies This is because the retrograde dignity is a 
dynamic phenomenon and the lordships representation to Jupiter 
■in a house as sub, star and lord of a house is static nature. 



384 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 

Except Sun and Moon, all other five planets will become 
retrograde. 

In fact in the above example horoscope though Jupiter is 
retrograde good results are being experienced by the native. 

Some important matters: 

There is no yoga definitions used in KP and only the benefic 
and malefic effects of results are focused. 

The entire focus is on Dasha effects and it is quite evident 
that only the star and sub levels are taken care. The transit 
results are also based on the star and sub level activation by 
planets transiting in the zodiac divisions prescribed by this 
method. 

This system missed many valuable links in its course of 
scholarly progression and drifted to further divisional approaches 
leading to more confusion. Absolutely it is essential to go in for 
minute divisions provided it does not deviate from the 
authenticated principles. For example if Dasha signifies strong 
trend of evil houses being operated and if there is one house 
amicable to each factor of life through Dasha signification, the 
linked bhukti connecting other positive house may give the 
beneficial results but the trend of the evil houses will definitely 
participate in giving dissatisfaction in the fulfilled matter. Bhukti 
is the deciding factor of the event. In the modern research, the 
scholars advocating the next division that is sub sub lord which 
is actually the 3 rd level of Dasha for short period events like 
interviews, travel, broking business and such shorter interval 
activities. They are right, there are number of issues in the life 
which does not need the sanction of great fortune. Despite a 
negative trend positive efforts can yield results. However, the 
nature of such result and the resultant experience of such short 
term fulfillments can be studied through Sub Sub lord that is 3 rd 
level of time period. Not deviating from the main structure it is 
open to scholars to go in for research in further divisions and 
while doing so the karaka signification of planets need to be 
assessed which gives the whole situation of an event. 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 385 



The core concept of the originator of this system introduced 
a structured approach to Naadi method of reading as mentioned 
in earlier paragraph which is based on house star and sub levels 
along with Karakatwa of planets. This concept is fading away in 
modern articles or books on this subject. 

However it cannot be denied that this system has a 
structured approach for horoscope analysis entirely based on 
pure stellar theory and especially it is very much useful in timing 
the event by identifying the Dasha planets. In Dasha system 
Satyacharya uses the Tarabala and Professor KSK uses stellar 
position and its sub position for Dasha analysis. KP astrology is 
condemned by many traditional astrological research scholars 
basing their reasons of authentication of this system by classical 
works though many of their research points on classical works 
have miserably failed in universal application. Right from rishis 
to Acharyas who authored classical astrological works differ in 
many computation and combination aspects of prediction and 
timing in astrology. Due to this there is unlimited scope for 
logical approaches and arguments by scholars. Many of the 
methods introduced by modern scholars do not find place in 
classical texts but in application they stand in maximum cases 
and fail in a few cases. The reverse is also true. Especially in 
modern days intellectual astrological fraternity engaging in group 
discussions on sites have contributed materials which are useful, 
entertaining and at times contradicting stuff based on their point 
of views. It helps some to research further, it hurts biased 
persons, confuses new entrants. Every research is to narrow 
down to reach accuracy level in prediction. Ultimately any new 
system evolved should be logically convincing having its basis 
on authenticated components from classical works. Universally 
it should stand for repeated application. 

Grouping of Houses for analysis of departments of life: 

This is one of the most important contributions of KP which 
is also recently being used in traditional methodology. 
Traditionally a single house was being focused or in yoga two 



386 Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 



houses for a particular matter. For instance it was only 7 th house 
which was generally assessed for marriage and 11 th house for 
fulfillment. In KP 2, 7, 11 and 5 th also is being used to assess for 
marriage. But here there is some conflict with the fundamental 
principles, 2 nd house will be 8 th house to 7 th house and the 
relationship between 2 and 11 th will be 4 th and 10 th counted 
from each other. 8 th house is also 2 nd house to 7 th possbily this 
could have been the reason to group 2, 7, 11 for marriage. 
However in the light of classical division of Kama houses 3, 7, 
11 are more convincing to be the right grouping for marriage 
purpose. 3 rd is being house of agreement, 7 th being marital 
matters and 11 th is desire fulfillment and if we consider Bhavath 
Bhava it will be 5 th and 9 th Bhava a progeny progress which is 
the main intention of marriage in Indian culture. In marriage 
ceremony the 3 rd step in the marriage the groom prays to Varuna, 
Brihaspati Indira and Surya to cast off evils and defects of bride 
for a harmonious and long married life with progeny and 
happiness. 3 rd to 5 th is 5 th Bhava which is also signify Veda 
mantra and also progeny factors and 3 rd to 11 th it is Bhagya or 
fortune. Logically it is convincing to group houses 3, 7, 11 for 
marriage and 2 nd house for 2 nd marriage. 

The grouping is based on Dharma Artha Kama Moksha as 
shown below: 



Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 



387 



n 



Defeat-Deject 
Difficulties 
Loss-Failure 
Sins-Chronic 
Crash /Secret 



FaJI-Displace 
Sacrifice, 
Loss, 
Disgrace 
Assyl urn -Jail 



1 



Comforts, 

Education 
Emotions 
Mind Mother 
Assets 



Self-Asctions 

Personality 

Ability 

Health 

Longevity 



Wisdom-Past 
Merit- Mantra 
Pleasures 
Expertise 
Family deity 



Fortune 
Spiritual, Skill 
Religion 
Dist. Travel 
Higher Study 



Union-Social 
Partner/ Legal 
Wife- Spouse 
Marriage 
Foreign 



Fulfilments 

Profits-Gains 

Friendship 



Elder Brother 



Communiqu 

Support 

Inclination 

Movement 

Dare-Sibling 



Wealth 

Learning 

Speech 

Family 

Additions 



o 



Efforts-Worry 
Debts- Enmity 
Diseases 
Competition 
Tensions 



Karma-Rina 
Profession 
Business 
Status Fame 
Title Passport 



EQ 



For relational matters 1, 5, 9 and 3, 7, 11 are compatible 

For material matters 2, 6, 10 and 3, 7, 11 are compatible 

4, 8, 12 are not compatible with others expect 4 th which 
needs the support of 11 th . 

Basing on these certain modifications are suggested in 
grouping of houses logically and the table is appended below. 
However the intention is not to contradict scholarly dictums of 
Sri KSK but to append widely experimented modifications to 
benefit further research. 



388 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 





Longevity & Sickness 


Longevity - Long Life 




3 


8 








Longevity - Middle Life 




3 


10 








Longevity - Short 




5 


10 








Accidents 




6 


8 


12 






Death 




2 


7 


12 


6 


8 


Murder 




2 


7 


8 


12 


6 


Suicide 




6 


7 


2 


12 


3 


Sick 




6 










Recovery 




5 


11 








At Home-Treatment 




6 


4 








Bed rest 




6 


4 


12 






Chronic 




6 


8 








Hospital 




1 


6 


12 






Surgery 




6 


8 


12 








Education 


Scholar 


1 


5 


9 


11 




Occult 


1 


5 


9 


10 


11 


Pass 


5 


9 


11 






Fail 


5 


8 


12 






Scholarship 


2 


5 


11 


9 




Financial Help 


11 


2 


5 


9 




Higher Study abroad 


9 


12 


5 


7 




Scientist/Research 


5 


9 


11 






Astrology Expertise 


9 


5 


2 


11 





Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 



389 





Interviews & Meetings 


Interview Loss 


3 


8 


12 


■ ■ ■ 


■ ■■ 


Interview - Success 


3 


5 


11 






Meeting favours Self 


3 


5 


11 






Meetings failures 


3 


2 


8 






Meeting Success 


3 


9 


11 






Communication 


3 


11 


7 






Agreements 


3 


9 


11 






Lost Document 


3 


7 


12 


■ ■■ 


■ ■ . 




Job and service 


Job 


10 


2 


6 


11 




Same Place 


10 


4 


11 






Prom/Change 


10 


2 


3 


11 




Outdoor Job 


10 


3 


6 


11 




Change of Job 


10 


12 


5 


9 




Transfer 


10 


3 


11 


12 




Suspension 


10 


12 


8 






Sacked from Service 


10 


8 


6 


12 






Independent occupation 


Self Emp/Buss 


7 


2 


10 






Prosper self emp/bus 


7 


2 


10 


11 




Loss self emp/bus 


7 


6 


8 


12 




Profit self emp/bus 


7 


2 


11 






Partnership - Good 


7 


5 


11 






Partnership - Bad 


7 


6 


12 






Separate 


7 


1 


6 


10 





390 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 





Foreign 


Stay at Foreign 


1 


9 


12 






To Get Visa 


3 


7 


9 


11 




Foreign Travel 


9 


3 


7 


12 




Foreign Business 


9 


7 


10 


11 




Frgn Med Treatment 


9 


1 


6 


12 


8 


No Foreign Trip 


1 


4 


/i0 






Foreign Education 


9 


5 


12 


11 






Marital matters 


Love-Elope 


5 


7 


3 


11 




Failure in Love 


5 


4 


6 






Love Marriage-Separate 


5 


6 


7 


11 


12 


Love only affairs 


5 


11 








Success in Love 


5 


7. 


11 






Marriage Normal 


7 


3 


11 






Married life disturbed 


7 


1 


6 


8 




Temp Separation 


7 


3 


9 






Divorce-Compromise 


7 


5 


11 






Divorce 


7 


6 


8 


12 




Illicit relation 


7 


6 


5 


8 




2 nd Marriage 


7 


6 


9 


11 




Dual spouse 


7 


9 


11 


5 




Reunion 


11 


2 


5 


7 





Stellar Based-Naadi System-Method 3 



391 







Property 








Property 


4 


9 


11 






Property - Loan . 


4 


9 


6 


11 




Property by will 


8 


2 


4 


6 


11 


Property inherited 


8 


4 


11 






Property - Spouse 


7 


4 


11 






Profit Sale - Property 


4 


3 


11 






Loss - Sale Property 


4 


3 


6 


8 


12 


Loss of Properties 


4 


3 


6 


8 


12 


Change of residence 


1 


3 


12 








Disposals 


Profit by property sale 


4 


3 


2 


11 




Loss by Property sale 


4 


6 


8 


12 




Gambling Gain 


5 


2 


11 






House loan 


6 


4 


11 






Loan Giving 


2 


12 








Loan Received 


2 


11 








To Invest 


12 


7 


10 






Expenses 


8 


2 


12 






Financial crises 


2 


5 


9 






Runaway from debts 


2 


6 


8 


9 




Sudden Loss 


8 


2 


5 


12 





392 



Roots of Naadi Astrology: A Comprehensive Study 





Litigations 


Case compromise 


7 


3 


9 


11 




Case Lost 


7 


6 


8 


12 




Case win 


7 


5 


9 


11 




Property Litigations 


7 


4 


8 


11 




Relational Litigations 


7 


1 


6 


12 




Arrest 


1 


3 


8 


12 





Technically due to stellar divisional computations involved 
in this system and based on the experience narrated by Professor 
himself with regard to Naadi references this system is scarcely 
termed as Naadi system though this type of divisional concepts 
are not found in any of the classical texts. The Dhruva Naadi of 
Satyacharya uses the stellar system within the frame work of 
Tarabala principle and therefore has its creditability as a classical 
work. Planets qualifying through its star position modifying its 
results are also found in some classical texts. 

However using KP system there are books under the heading 
of Naadi astrology which rightly fits the concept. 

The concept here is not only to introduce the system of KP 
and also highlight the Naadi principles hidden in this system. 
Combining some of the classical and Naadi dimensions with KP 
may be very much useful as a comprehensive approach for a 
structured Predictive Naadi Astrology. 



Na Aham Karta 
Sarvasya Hari Karta 



Satyanarayan Naik 



