STREE JATAKA 

Or 

Focus On Woman Through Astrology 

EXCERPTS FROM : 

(BRIHAT JATAKA, PARAASARA SAMHITAA, PHALA DEEPIKAA, 

SARVAARTHA CHINTAAMAN], SAARAAVALI, JATAKA PAARUAATAM 

AND JATAKA TATTVAM.) 

Compiled in Tamil by 

'andit KADALANGUDI INATESA SASTRI 

Transcreated in English by 
"Asia' Leading Woman Astrologist - Counsellor" 

" Jyothish Kalanidhi* 

Dr, Mrs, K.IH. SARAS WATHY 

M.A., M.S., MXd., Doctorate in Counselling, 
Diplomas in naturopathy. Art, Yoga and Computer 



_ pdf was saved as PDF/A so that it will not be 
altered or changed with time, 
still pages can be extracted as images to 
make another pdf 



c 



STREE JATAKA 



{ 


contents | 

> --> 


Chapte 


:r Mo. Page Mo 




DEDICATION 


iii 




IMTRODUCTIOM 


vi 




IMDEX 


viii 




AACHAARYA KADALANGUDI 


XV 




BRIEF MOTE ON Dr. K.M.S. 


xxi 




MOTE OM THE PUBLISHER 


Kxii 


I 


From Varaahamihira 


1 


II 


Brihat Samhltaa 


9 


III 


Mantreswara 


12 


IV 


Parasara Samhltaa 


17 


V 


Jataka Tattva 


23 


VI 


Sarvaartha Chintaamani 


37 


VII 


Saaraavali 


52 


VHI 


Phala Deepikaa 


97 


IX 


Jataka Paaryaata ] 


01 


X 


Jataka Tattva ] 


14 



Q STREE JATAKA "^ 



[ [ INTRODUCTION j ) 

Hindu Dharma regards woman as the fulcrum of 
the family, which in turn is the hub of the community. 
This book focuses on woman through at least 7 books 
SAARAAVALI, SARVAARTHA CHINTAAMANI, BRIHAT 
SAMH1TAA, FARASARA SAMH1TAA, JATAKA 
PAARUAATAM, JATAKA FHALA DEEPIKAA, AND JATAKA 
TATTVAM. 

It reveals the characteristics of women born in 
various constellation/ and effects on women of planets 
posited in Bhavas 1 to 12. It deals with Trlmsamsas, 
with why we should worry about marriage-compatibility, 
the nature of the bride, her bodily constitution, her 
husband's nature and position, the 'aspect' regarding 
children, etc. 

First published in Tamil 1937 by Revered Fandlt 
Brahmasri Kadalangudi Natesa Sastri, it is now 
transcreated in English and brought out so as to be 
available for the wider public. 

We hope that it will be found useful by students 
of comparative astrology, researchers, counsellors and 
practitioners of astrological science, besides others 
Interested. We will gratefully receive suggestions for 
Improvement of the book. 



Q INTRODUCTION J 



We will be failing in our duty if we do not 
acknowledge the encouragement given to us by the 
Advisory Committee of the Kadalangudi Astrological 
(Indologlcal) Research Centre (India) and the 
Kadalangudi foundation (USA). 

I am particularly indebted to my husband Professor 
B. Ardhanareeswaran for all his help and 
encouragement. 

KJL SARASWATHY 

March, 5th 1999. 



viii 1 ( STREE JATAKA 



c 



INDEX 



J) 



Chapter No. Page No. 

I From BRIHAT JATAKA 1 

Marriages without consulting horoscope (s) 1 

Woman, of good/bad character 2 

Characteristics based on Trimsamsas of birth 3 

Characteristics based on Navamsa 4 

Lesbian women 5 

7th house effect on husband's position 6 

Time of widowhood 8 

II From VIVAAHA PATALAM (Irom BRIHAT SAMHITAA) 9 
Effects of planets in and from Vivaaha Lagna 9 
Quantity of milk in breast 10 
Godhooli Lagna (of cattle returning home) 12 

III From MANTRESWARA 12 
Conjugal happiness 12 
Second marriage 13 
Diseased womb 14 
Eunch 14 
Attachment to another man 15 
Favourable time for conception 16 

IV From PARASARA SAMHITAA 17 
Lascivious person 17 
Slave husband 17 
Three wives 18 



c 



INDEX J (ix 

Date of Marriage 20 

Death of wife 21 

Interest in the other woman ,22 

Daughter of a spy 23 

V From JATAKA TATTVA 23 
The other woman 23 
Incest with mother 24 
Incest with sister 24 
Incest with a black 25 
Incest with preacher/preceptor's wife 25 
Yogas for debauchery 26 
Number of marriages 27 
Numerous wives 29 
Marriage with married woman 30 
Chaste wife 30 
Bad wife 32 
Barren woman 32 
Early marriage 33 
Wet genitalia 34 
Loss of wife by hanging/fire 34 
Ghost-possessed wife 36 
Disfigured face of wife 36 
Conjugal happiness 36 

VI From SARVAARTHA CH1NTAAMANI 37 
Loving spouse 37 
Lecherous spouse 37 
Illegitimate child 36 



Q STREE JATAKA ^ 



Pandering women to others 


• 39 


More and more wives 


39 


Spouse good and bad 


42 


Sinful spouse 


43 


Head-strong spouse 


44 


Devout spouse 


44 


Ignominy to family 


45 


Husband-killer 


46 


Early marriage 


46 


Fortune after marriage 


46 


Economic equality/inequality of spouse 


47 


Rasi/'sign' of spouse 


48 


Abnormal sex relations 


50 


Masturbation 


'50 


Size of breasts 


51 


, Wife's genitalia 


52 


VII From SAARAAVALI 


52 


Trimsamsa effects 


52 


Plantonic love 


55 


The other man 


56 


Mother and daughter prostitutes 


56 


Beautiful waist 


56 


Don Juan husband 


56 


Good/charming/cuhured husband 


57 


Envious 


57 


Notorious 


58 


Ascetic 


58 



c 



INDEX 



Spiritual aspirant 


58 


Selfish 


59 


Woman dying before husband 


59 


Yogas for barrenness 


60 


Visha-kanyaa/misfortune-girl/poison-girl 


63 


Characteristics of women bom in various 


conste!lations65 


Chandaala/despicable 


74 


Raja/Queen's Yoga 


75 


Ungrateful 


76 


Harsh and friendless 


77 


Hated by people 


77 


Obstinate 


77 


Blood diseases 


77 


Dirty clothes 


78 


Charitable 


78 


Miserty 


78 


Deformed breasts 


79 


Spiritual 


80 


Clear-headed 


80 


Liberal 


80 


Childless 


81 


Long good hair 


81 


Poverty and poor features 


81 


Unprotected 


81 


Dejected 


81 


Resh-eating 


81 



£> ( 


STREE JATAKA } 

i 


Alcoholic 


82 


Cnjel and passionate 


82 


Noble character 


82 


Sell-pitying 


83 


Chief among women 


84 


Protector of Dharma 


85 


Many servants 


85 


Self-willed 


85 


Runaway type 


85 


Pleasing 


86 


Wild-minded but obedient 


86 


Affluent and beautiful 


86 


Several interests 


87 


Beautiful but sick and unintelligent 


87 


Loveless and neglected 


87 


Blind 


87 


Thieving 


88 


Arrogant 


88 


Sorceress 


88 


Rheumatic 


88 


One-eyed husband 


89 


Widower 


89 


Prostitute wife 


91 


Ideal wife 


91 


Date of death of wife 


93 


Profligate husband 


95 


Determining spouse's Lagna 


95 


Direction from which spousn comes 


97 



c 



INDEX A ( xiii 



VIII 



IX 



From JATAKA PHALA DEEPIKAA 


97 


Prosperity of merried life 


97 


Death or divorce 


98 


Happy in spouse and children 


99 


Date of marriage 


101 


Direction of spouse 


101 


From JATAKA PAARIJAATA 


101 


Wife's Raja Yoga for husband 


102 


Polyandrous Woman 


103 


World-famous 


103 


Scholarly 


103 


Manlike 


104 


Adulterous with husband's connivance 


106 


Inimical to husband 


107 


Widowhood 


107 


Pre-deceasing husband 


108 


Deserted by husband 


109 


Queenly 


110 


Bringing glory to family 


111 


Ascetic 


111 


Couples dying same time 


112 


Husband's characteristics 


112 


From JATAKA TATTVA 


114 


Sweet behaviour 


115 


Masculine 


115 


Characterless 


115 


Roguish 


115 



1 £ 3TREE JATAKA "^ 


Bold 


116 


Unchaste 


116 


Husband - Killer 


116 


Relations with another with spouse's connivance 


118 


Prostitution by mother and daughter 


118 


Short-tempered husband 


118 


Old cruel husband 


119 


Showy wife 


119 


Childless 


120 


Destroying both families 


120 


Abortion 


121 


Difficult delivery 


121 


Visha Kanyaa/Poison girl/Misfortune girl 


121 



ACHARYA KADALANGUDI Jj 

How true these words of Shakespeare in the mouth 
of Julius Caesar were in the case of Revered Fandit 
Brahmasri Kadalangudi liatesa Sastrl ! Here was a 
valiant man who braved poverty, braved the ridicule 
of the atheists, braved the obstruction of the orthodox, 
and the prejudice which some vernacular scholars 
had been entertaining against Sanskrit, and with unique 
and singleminded devotion rendered a singal service 
in the spread of the supreme Bharatiya wisdom. 

Revered Pandit Kadalangudi Matesa Sastri, whose 
birth centenary was celebrated in 1978, had a great 
share in the religious and cultural Renaissance since 
his main work was in bringing the valuable treasures 
embedded in the ancient literature to the attention of 
the general public and making them available in a 
language understood by the layman. It is an evidence 
of his broad culture and a significant sign of the 
changing times that he put before one and all without 
distinction of caste or community or religion, Vedic 
Mantras such as those in the Taitreeya Aaranyakam. 
He had dedicated his life to this noble cause by 
translating the almost entire religious classics into 
Tamil and publishing more than 50 books along with 
the original texts in De van agar i script. 

Birth and Education: 

Born on 5th October 1878 of the couple Rama 
Sastri and Meenakshi Ammal at Kadalangudi Village 



(xvi^ (^ACHARYA KAPALANGUPI^ 

near Kumbakonam in Taryavur District in Tamil Madu 
(India) he learnt Kaavyas, ttaatakas, Alankaaras, 
Vyaakarana, Vedanta, Astrology and Mantra Saastras. 
Among his teachers were two Mahaamahopaadhyaayas; 
his Guru Bhakti was such that In every publication of 
his he got it printed that the rendering was by 
Mahaamahopaadhyaaya Vedantakesari Brahmasri 
Pangaanaadu Qanapati Sastri's disciple Pandit 
Kadalangudi Natesa Sastrt 

Role of Educator: 

in 1908 he started giving discourses at Tirunelveli 
on Advaita Vedanta. From 1914 to 1916 he gave 
Vedanta lessons in Travancore Samasthaanam. During 
this period he specialized in the study of and 
discussion on Bhaagavatam and Hindu Astrology. He 
was honoured by the Maharajah of Travancore. On 
25th July 191,0 he was honoured by the Maharajah of 
Mysore. While introducing him to the Maharajah, Dewan 
V.P. Madhava Row remarked : 

"Though young he is a man of exceptionally 
brilliant parts and wonderful grasp of the principles 
of the Vedanta. i derived much benefit from his 
discourses. What I consider to be a special merit 
in the young man is his spirit of tolerance." 

The Sankaracharyas of Kanchipuram and Sringeri 
Mutts had conferred titles on him. 

The Times in Which He Emerged : 

At the beginning of. the century Hindu orthodoxy 
was, to use Shelley's words about Catholicism, "only 



c 



ACHARYA KADALANGUDI 1 > ( xvii 



adoration, faith, submission, blind admiration; not a 
rule for moral conduct;" and Hindu Dharma was "a 
passion, a persuasion, an excuse, a refuge, never a 
check according to the temper of the mind whfch it 
inhabited/' The stalwarts of the Hindu fold were 
unwilling to deal in a sympathetic spirit with the 
growing desire of those educated in English schools 
and colleges to get at the rationale of Hindu custom 
and usages; and in fact, they refused to encourage 
any such quest. These led to the deplorable result of 
alienating the English educated Hindu altogether from 
that interest in ancient Indian Knowledge which one 
would gladly have seen in their mental equipment 
and from the observance of those rites and 
ceremonials which form the indispensable discipline 
making for purity of though and body, necessary for 
any spiritual development. Their example easily began 
to spread this lack of interest even among non-English 
educated men; for the former were taken to be the 
repositories of modern wisdom whom it would be 
unfashionable not to follow. But, fortunately, the tide 
has turned. 

national leaders like Swami Vivekananda, Tilak, 
Auroblndo and Mahatma Gandhi highlighted the salient 
points of India's hoary civilization and glorious culture 
inspired by the spiritual insight of her sages, and 
showed how a departure from which had resulted in 
her slavery to foreign domination. At such a time 
emerged on the scene the great Kadalangudl. 



(xvHi^ ( ACHARYA KADALANGUDI ^ 

Journalist Par Excellence : 

Pandit Kadalangudi Natesa Sastri settled down in 
Madras on 27th Wovember 1917. Without much capital 
on hand he set up his own Press and launched his 
monthly journal AARYAMATA SAMVARDHANEE, which 
met a long-felt need of the public. He popularized 
through his journal the rare ancient religious classics 
through the medium of a reliable Tamil translation 
and propagated a knowledge of the significance of 
Hindu rituals, method of worship, etc. 

Grand Publications: 

The period 1923 to 1928 saw the publication of 
9 Vedlc books, 6 Upanishads, 4 Vols, of Brahmasuutra 
Sankara Bhaashyam 7 Vols, of Stimad Bhaagavatam, 
12 Astrology books and more than 12 Stotra books. 
Each book carried a scholarly Preface as lengthy as 
Bernard Shaw's, detailed contents and an Index of 
Slokas to be of help to the users of the book; the Rt. 
Honble Srinivasa Sastri echoed the thought of the 
other readers when he said Kadalangudis footnotes 
were imaginative and considerate of the reader's 
difficulty. The value of each book was enhanced 
by the author's collateral references which bring 
together all the learning on the subject and critical 
commentary at once admirable and most helpful. 
In the astrology books judgement based on the author's 
experience is also given wherever there are conflicting 
schools of thought. The meaning of the text is clearly 
and succinctly explained; the exposition is complete 
and authoritative; 



c 



ACHARYA KADALANGUDI \ ( xix 



no wonder his books are used for research 
guidance. His astrology books continue to be used as 
basic reference books by Tamil-knowing people all 
over the world. 

The Greatness of Kadalangudi's Translation : 

Only those who are engaged in translation work can 
realize how arduous the work is ; while the difficulty of 
communicating the" ideas in one language through the 
medium of another is always difficult it is still more 
difficult to translate a valueable abstruse work from 
Sanskrit into Tamil. Thiru Vi.Ka. opines thus:- 

"Many will flinch from even undertaking the 
translation of such abstract and scholarly treatises. 
But this is what the learned Kadalangudi Sastriar has 
dared to do in a spirit of dedication and service, 
regardless of praise or blame. And it is wonderful 
how well he has done this superhuman task. Our 
mind does not permit us to state that Acharya 
Kadalangudi ftatesa Sastriji working at the translation 
purely from the standpoint of learning. But we can 
confidently affirm that he is labouring also from the 
standpoint of love that transcends all knowledge." 

This swelling flood of translation flows from a 
source full of knowledge and love and it is the 
bounden duty of every Tamilian to drink it... South 
India was all the poorer for want of accurate translation 
of the great classic. But this want has now been 
supplied and the ideas fri the classics, made accessible 
to the Tamil public by the Tamil translation so nobly 



c 



xx 1 ( ACHARYA KADALANGUDI 



undertaken by Acharya Kadalangudi Hatesa Sastri, that 
veteran scholar. We In the South owe him a deep 
debt of gratitude for this labour of love/ 

What is not widely knowg Is that he 1 was great 
poet; he had left behind him a large number of 
Sanskrit verses which constituted his diary. 

Around 1940 Kulapatf K.M. Munshi invited him to 
become Principal of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Sanskrit 
College In Bombay; Kadalangudi declined it with thanks 
since he wanted to be self employed and enjoy the 
accruing freedom to pursue his studies. 

Ra jgji's Tribute : 

While speaking at Kadalangudl's Sataabhishekam' 
function (completion of 8i years 4 months of age 
equivalent to 100 lunar years) at Siva-Vishnu Temple 
in Madras on October 11, 1958 Rajaji (who was of 
the same age) expressed as follows : 

"The public need not bother to arrange another 
grand celebration of my 'Sataabhishekam'. I deem it 
to have been celebrated along with this function in 
honour of the veteran scholar Revered Pandit 
Kadalangudi Piatesa Sastri." 

Such was the mutual admiration and affection 
between the two intellectual giants. 

ttfc P**4 f 

The Revered Pandit who laid the Indian public 
under deep obligation to him by publishing and 
propagating ancient works and making the most 
valuable contribution to the study of Advalta Vedanta, 



c 



Dr.KNS 1 ( xxi 



Srimad Bhaagavatam, and Hindu Astrology attained 
immortality at the holiest of holy moments: at 11-30 
p.m. on Mahaasivaraatri in 1961 {on Feb. 14, 1961 at 
the Lingaavirbhava Lagna). 

His Mission : 

Both in the several books and in his numerous 
lectures he had stood for the consolidation based on 
the Vedas of the Hindu Dharma by ensuring social 
unity along with individual purity. He had. been and 
continues to be a source of inspiration to many of his 
disciples who have profited by learning the gems 
hidden in the ancient classics, both philosophical and 
didactic, and which have a direct bearing on the 
practical conduct of everyday. 

Dr. K.N. Saraswathy his Daughter and Disciple : 

He had no sons and therefore he chose to give 
intensive training in the practice of Astrology to his 
youngest daughter K.PL Saraswathy, and training in 
exposition of epics and Naaraayaneeyam to his eldest 
son-in-law Anantaraama Deekshitar. 

The great Pandit had no patience or time to lose 
with indifferent disciples or those without intuition, as 
far as astrology was concerned. Astrological study 
required more intense concentration, capacity for 
application, and intuition. So the only disciple who 
completed the course and internship in astrology under 
Kadalangudl was K.H. Saraswathy. Even after the course 
he was happy to have her as apprentice and 
collaborator in republishing the astrology books. 



[ NOTE OPi THE PUBLISHER ) 

We are highly appreciative of the expeditious and 
efficient service done by the enthusiastic Publisher 
Mr. M.A. Jaishankar. He is grandson of Rev. Ft. 
Kadalangudi Natesa Sastri. He is Economics graduate 
with a Masterate in Business Management { M.B.A.) 

He manages distribution of books brought out by 
Kadalangudi Publications, and the programs of the 
Kadalangudi Astrological (Indological) Research Centre, 
(Regd. Charitable Trust), which conducts 
Correspondence Courses on Astrology and Art in 
English/Tamil. 

He has enthusiastically organized and been 
conducting these correspondence courses. He has been 
bringing out with great interest and devotion the 
revised edition of the earlier titles and new titles of 
the Kadalangudi Centenary Book Series, each time in 
a better get up. He is mightily interested in culture, 
and modernization not deterimental to but supporting 
culture, and in Oriental Studies. 

Kadalangudi Astrological (indological) 
Research Centre Advisory Committee 



Sri Ramajayam 




STREE JATAKA 



From VARAHAMIH1RA 

Of the effects with regard to the male, all those 
that may be found In female horoscopes, should be 
stated as applicable to men also. Those not applicable 
to them should be ascribed to their husbands. The 
death of the husband is to be deduced from the 8th 
house from the Lagna, her bodify appearance etc., 
from the lagna and the house occupied by the Moon; 
another welfare, marital bliss and the nature of the 
husband from the 7th house from the Lagna. 

NOTE 

The effects of the Moon tJeing positecj in various 
signs of the Zodiac are common to both males' and 
females' horoscopes. Those Raja Yoga benefits, which 
cannot be enjoyed by women/ if found in their 
horoscopes, are to be attributed to their husbands. 
Like wise are the malefic influences too to be endured 
by both. It is, therefore, considered essential in Indian 
culture to deeply ponder over the horoscopes of man 
and maid and weigh them carefully before 'ai/ranging' 
a marriage. 

QUERY \ 

If that were so, what about those marriages which 
were effected without consulting the horoscopes arid 
which have turned out successful ? 



Q STREE JATAKA J 



ANSWER 

Once swallow does not make a summer; simply 
because a leech In its crawling seems to make the 
figure of Pranava (AUM), are we to infer It has done 
it purposefully and that It knows the significance of 
that Mantra? If. a man is able to reach his destination 
in a dark night, are we to infer that there is no more 
use for a lamp in the dark? The sages and elders by 
experience have found out that by carefully examining 
the horoscopes of man and maid before the alliance, 
the marriages turn out to be successful. Phaladeepika 
affirms that material bliss and "Maangalyam" of the 
woman are determined by looking at the planet in the 
4th house, and knowledge about her children from 
the 9th house. But Saaraavali declares that the children 
are to be found from the 5th house in her horoscope. 

If both Lagna and the Moon are in even sign, the 
woman born will have truly feminine characteristics. If 
they are aspected by benefics she will be virtuous, 
have excellent qualities and possess ornaments. If 
the Lagna and the Moon are in odd signs, she will be 
Tomboyish, masculine in form and bearings; and if 
they are aspected by or occupied by malefics, she 
will have a bad character, devoid of any good quality. 
,..2 

NOTE 

In the case of either the Lagna or the Moon being 
in an odd sign, and the other in an eveh "sign, her 
qualities will be of a mixed character. Likewise she 



\ STREE JATAKA 



CD 



will have both and bad qualities, -if one of them is 
occupied or aspected by a malefic and the other by 
a benefic. 

NOTE 

If a sign is divided into 30 degrees, the first 5 
degrees in an odd sign Is ruled by Mars, the next by 
Saturn, the third group of 8 degrees by Jupiter, the 
fourth group of 7 degrees by Mercury and the last- 5 
by Venus. In an even sign, the first 5 by Venus, the 
next 7 by Mercury, the third 8 by Jupiter, the fourth 
group of 5 degrees by Saturn and the remaining 5 by 
Mars. 

When the Lagna or the Moon is in a sign belonging 
to Mars (i.e. Aries or Scorpio) and if the girl is born 
in the Trimsamsa of Mars, she will lose her virginity 
even before marriage. If born in the Trisamsa of 
Saturn, she will be a prostitute. But when born in the 
Trimsamsa of Jupiter, she will be virtuous. She will be 
cunning and deceitful, if born in the Trimsamsa of 
Mercury. Born in the Trimsamsa of Venus, she will 
have a bad character. ..3 

A female born in a Trimsamsa of Mars in a sign 
owned by Venus (Taurus or Libra) will be of a bad 
character; born in the Trimsamsa of Saturn, she will 
remarry; born in the Trimsamsa of Jupiter, she will be 
skilled in the fine arts— music, vocal and Instrumental, 
dancing and painting — If born in the Trimsamsa of 
Mercury; if born in the Trimsamsa of Venus*, she will 
be highly sexy. ...4 



([ STREE JATAKA ^ 



When the Lagna or the Moon is in Cancer (the 
house of the Moon), and the Trimsamsa of birth is 
owned by Mars, the female bom will be self-willed; if 
born in the Trimsamsa of Saturn, she will kill her 
husband; born in the Trimsamsa of Jupiter, she will 
have many good qualities; born in the Trimsamsa of 
Mercury, she will be skilled in the arts; if born in the 
Trimsamsa of Venus, she will be unchaste. 

If the Lagna or the Moon were to be in Leo, the 
house of the Sun, and the Trimsamsa of birth is 
Mars, the woman will have masculine qualities. If it is 
the Trimsamsa of Saturn, she will act quite unbecoming 
of her sex and caste;, born in the Trimsamsa of 
Jupiter she will be a queen; if brith were in the 
Trimsamsa of Mercury, she would be masculine in her 
ways; and lastly in the Trimsamsa of venus she will 
do things which are not becoming of a woman. When 
the Lagna or the sign occupied by the Moon is of a 
woman. When the Lagna or the sign occupied by the 
Moon is owned by Jupiter (i.e.) Sagittarius or Pisces, 
and the girl is born in the Trimsamsa of Mars/ she 
will have many good qualities; born in the Trimsamsa 
of Saturn she will have no inclination for material or 
sexual interests; born in a Trimsamsa of Jupiter, she 
will be blessed with noble qualities; if born in the 
Trimsamsa of Mercury, she will be proficient in 
sculpture and literature; and if born in the Trimsamsa 
of Venus, she will be wicked. 

If the Lagna or the sign occupied by the Moon is 
owned by Saturn, (i.e.) Capricorn or Aquarius, and 



c 



STREE JATAKA 



the girl is in the Trimsamsa of Mars, she will be a 
servant (or prostitute). If in the Trimsamsa of Saturn, 
she will have relations with a man of low class; if in 
the Trimsamsa of Jupiter, she will be very devoted to 
her husband; in the Trimsamsa of Mercury, she will 
be wicked; and, born in the Trimsamsa of Venus, she 
will be barren. ....5 

The effects so far described about the birth of 
girls in the different Trimsamsas of the several signs 
with the Lagna or the Moon in them, will come to 
pass according to the strength or weakness of the 
Lagna or the Moon. 

NOTE 

In the case of weakness of the Lagna and the 
Moon, no effect will take place. ...6 

If Saturn and Venus occupy each others Navamsa, 
or the two aspect each other, or if Taurus or Libra 
(the houses of Venus) happen fo be the Lagna and 
the rising Mavamsa be owned by Aquarius the girl 
born would be over-sexed and indulge in lesbian 
activities with another female. ...7 

When the 7 th house from the Lagna or- the sign 
occupied by Moon is empty and weak and without 
benefic aspect, the female born will have a husband 
who is a bad character. If Mercury or Saturn were to 
be in the 7th house, her husband would be impotent. 
If, the 7th house is a moveable sign, her husband will 
ever be travelling away from home. If the Sun occupies 



6J Q STREE JATAKA j 

the 7th house, she will be widowed young, and if 
Saturn occupies the 7th house and is aspected by a 
malefic, she will remain unmarried living to an old 
age. 

NOTE 

From the above it is evident that if the 7th house 
is a fixed sign the husband will not move out much; 
and if in a common sign, he will go out on duty for 
some time and then remain in the home. ...8 

When the malefic planets occupy the 7th house, 
the female born will become a widow. If both benefic 
and malefic planets occupy the 7th house, the female 
born will get remarried. If the malefic in the 7th 
house is weak and aspected by a benefic one, she 
will be abandoned by her husband. If Venus and Mars 
occupy each other's Navamsa at the time of birth, the 
female born then will be interested in other men. If 
Mars and Venus are associated will the Moon in the 
7th house, she will be associated with other men with 
the permission of her husband. ...9 

When the sign of Saturn or Mars {i.e. Aquarius, 
Aries, Scorpio or Capricorn) is the Lagna and the 
Moon and Venus are posited therein, and aspected by 
malefics, both the mother and the daughter will be 
unchaste. When the setting/last Mavamsa belongs to 
Mars in the 7th house and is aspected by Saturn, she 
will have a diseased womb; and if the Mavamsa 
belongs to a benefic planet, she will have handsome 
hips and much beloved by her husband. ...10 



c 



STREE JATAKA 



If at the time of birth the 7th house or the last 
Navarnsa belongs to Saturn, the woman's husband 
will be old, foolish, and arrogant. If the 7th house is 
a sign of Mars or the Navamsa belongs to Mars, her 
husband will be fond of other women, and also be of 
a wrathful temperament. But if the 7th house .or the 
Mavamsa belongs to Venus, she will be blessed. with 
a handsome and fortunate husband. If the 7th house 
or Navamsa belongs to Mercury, her husband will be 
very learned and intelligent. ...11 

If the 7th house of the Navamsa Is Cancer (sign 
owned by the Moon), the husband will be love-lorn 
and not cruel. If It happens to be house of Jupiter, 
the husband will be endowed with good qualities and 
will have control of his senses* If the 7th house of 
the Piavamsa happens to be Leo (owned by the Sun), 
the husband will be exceedingly soft but energetic in* 
every Kind of work undertaken. 

NOTE 

When the 7th house belongs to one planet and 
the Mavamsa to another planet, the character of the 
husband is determined by the stronger of the planets. 

....12 

When the Lagna at the birth of the girl is occupied 
by the Moon and Venus, she will be jealous and 
sensuous, fond of ease and comfort. If the Lagna is 
occupied by Mercury and the Moon, she will be skilled 
In music, vocal and Instrumental, be happy and 
endowed with good qualities. With Venus and Mercury 
in the Lagna, the girl bron will be beautiful and loved 



f STREE JATAKA J 



by her husband. She will be proficient in the arts too. 
If the three benefics occupy the Lagna, Mercury, Jupiter 
and Venus, the girl will be blessed with all kinds of 
wealth, happiness and good qualities; likewise would 
be one with the three benefics, the Moon, Jupiter and 
Mercury in the Lagna. 

When the 8th Bhava is occupied by a malefic, 
the woman becomes a widow. The widowhood will 
occur at a period after marriage, signifed by the ruier 
of the riavamsa occupied by the ruler of the 8th 
house. When benefic planets at the same time are in 
the 2nd house the woman will die earlier, avoiding 
widowhood. If the Moon is in Virgo, Scorpio, Taurus 
or Leo, she will have few children. 

NOTE 

The time of widowhood is indicated by the number 
of years after marriage, at the Antardasa of the ruler 
of the Navamsa occupied by the lord of the 8th 
house. ...14 

When Saturn is of middling strength, and the 
Moon, Venus and Mercury are weak, and the remaining 
planets are strong, the girl born in an odd Lagna will 
be masculine in character. (Another meaning is that 
she will associate with many men). But when Jupiter, 
Mars, Mercury and Venus are strong at the time of 
birth, and when the rising sign is an even one, the 
woman born will become world famous for her 
knowledge of sciences and Saastras, and she will be 
proficient In Vedaantic philosophy. ...15 



Q STREE JATAKA "^ 



If a malefic planet is posited in the 7th house, 
the woman will take to asceticism relating to the 
planet in the 9th house* The Yogas mentioned so far 
are applicable in connection with the time of marriage, 
at the time of marriage negotiations, and at the time 
of a query. ...16 

VIVAAHA PATALAM FROM BRIHAT SAMHTTAA 

Now we will deal with what Vindhyavaasis have to 
say on marriage. This also finds a place in Brihat 
Samhitaa : 

Ff the Sun or Mars happens to be at the Lagna of 

Marriage widowhood is certain. If Rahu happens to be 

at the Lagna of Marriage her children will not live 

long. Saturn in the Lagna of Marriage will make her 

poor. If Venus, Mercury or Jupiter is In that Lagna, 

she will be chaste. The Moon will shorten her longevity. 

* * * i 
i 
If the Sun, Saturn, Mars or Rahu happens to 

occupy the 2nd place of the Marriage-Lagna, she will 

suffer much due to povery. But It Jupiter, Venus or 

Mercury happen to be in the 2nd place, she would 

not only be prosperous but would not become a 

widow. If the Moon were to be in the 2nd place, she 

would have many children. ...2 

If the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus or 
Mercury happen to occupy the 3rd place of the 
Marriage Lagna, she would have .many children, be 
prosperous and wealthy. If Saturn J>e in the 3rd place 
she would be highly esteemed and loved by her 



Q STREE JATAKA ^ 



husband. Rahu in the 3rd place will certainly bring 
about her death. ..3 

if Saturn were to be in the 4th place of the 
Marriage-Lagna the woman would not have much milk 
in her breast. If the Sun were to be in the 4th place 
she would be without luck; the same effect if the 
Moon were in the 4th place. If Rahu were in the 4th 
place her husband would have a concubine; with 
Mars in the 4th place she would have little money. If 
either Jupiter, Venus or Mercury were in the 4th place 
she would be happy. ..4 

If the Sun or Mars is in the 5th platie of the 
Marriage-Lagna, the bride's children will die. But if 
Mercury happens to be there, she will have many 
children. Rahu in the 5th place will cause her death. 
Saturn in that place will give her serious illness. The 
Moon tooo in the 5th place will cause her quick 
destruction. " ...5 

The planets Saturn, the Sun, Rahu, Jupiter and 
Mars being in the 6th place from the Marriage-Lagna, 
she will be loved by her husband and liked by her 
parents-in-law. But if the Moon were in the 6th place 
she would become a widow. Venus in the 6th place 
makes her poor, while Mercury there makes her rich. 
But she would also be quarrelsome. ...6 

Saturn in the 7th place from the marrlage-Lagna 
makes her a widow; Mars makes her bound and 
servile; Jupiter gives her death; Mercury disease, Rahu 
loss of property, the Sun illness, the Moon transfer to 
another land, and Venus death. ..,.7 



Q STREE JATAKA ^ 



Jupiter and Mercury in the 8th place keep athe 
couple separate, the Moon there brings death; as also 
Venus and Rahu. Mars gives her disease but Saturn 
brings her wealth and makes her husband love her 
much. , ..,8 

She would be devout and interested in righteous 
deeds if Venus, Sun, Mars or Jupiter occupied the 9th 
place from the marriage Lagna. Mercury there makes 
her disease-free. Rahu and Sattirn there make her 
barren. The Moon gives her only daughters and will 
make her travel much. .„9 

Rahu in the 10th place from the Marriage-Lagna 
makes her a widow. The Sun and Saturn there make 
her indulge in sinful deeds. Mars brings her death. 
The Moon in the 10th place makes her unchaste and 
poor. The other planets, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus 
make her prosperous and loved by the husband 10 

She will have many sons if the Sun were in the 
11th place from the Marriage-Lagna. She will be rich 
if the Moon is there. Mars too gives her children. 
Saturn makes her rich. Jupiter gives her long life. 
There will be increase of wealth if Mercury is there. 
She will not be a widow if Rahu is posited in the 10th 
place. Venus gives her wealth. ....] I 

While the Sun in the 12th place makes her poor. 
Jupiter in that place makes her rich. Ther Moon gives 
much expense. If Rahu makes her a prostitute, Venus 
makes her chaste in the 12th place. Mercury gives 
her several children and grandchildren. Mars makes 



12 1 ( STREE JATAKA 



c 



her a mother of several children. Mars makes her 
Indulge in sinful actions. ...12 

At evening twilight time, when the cattle returning 
home raise dust the Lagna is stated to be auspicious. 
It gives much wealth, health, happiness and children 
to women. It is sated that the time being auspicious, 
there is no need to consult the stars, date, Lagna, 
Yoga, etc. as it confers bliss to the couple. 

Although in this* canto on Marriage Lagna, only 8 
planets were taken into consideration and not Ketu 
the ninth planet, the effects given for Rahu apply to 
Ketu also. 

From MANTRESWARA 

Whatever effects are affirmed for men are entirely 
applicable in women's horoscopes too; and these are 
to be attributed tp their husbands. 

The woman's conjugal happiness and husband's 
longevity are to be determined from the 8th place 
from the Ascendant, about the children from the 9th 
house, about the husband and the appearance and 
beauty from the 7th house, about the association and 
chastity from an examination of the 4th house. 

Benefics in these houses confer good results; 
malefics, excepting when they happen in these houses, 
are productive 1 of evil. ...1 

If both the Ascendant and the Moon are in even 
signs, and are aspected by good planets, the woman 
wi!! have good sons, have an excellent husband. 



c 



STREE JATAKA A (13 



ornaments, wealth and possess good in qualities. If 
on the other hand the Ascendant and the Moon are 
in odd signs and aspected by or occupied by malefic 
planets, she will be masculine in character, wicked 
and poor, have a crooked mind, cannot be ruled by 
the husband. ...2 

If the 7th house or Amsa be a sign owned by a 
benefic her husband wiJ! be smart and bright, famous, 
learned and wealthy. In the reverse case, {i.e. if owned 
by a malefic) he will be deformed, foolish, deceitful 
and poor; and there will be separation between the 
couple. If a malefic .occupies the 7th house, the 
woman will become a widow. If the planets in the 7th 
are of a mixed sort, she will have a second marriage. 
(Jt is better to interpret it as "the girl once being 
betrothed to one marries another)". If a malefic were 
there in the 8th house she would cause the^ 
destruction of her husband. But if the malefic were in 
the 2nd house, she would die. ....3 

If Scorpio, Taurus, Virgo and Leo happen to be 
the 5th house and the Moon is posited there, she 
will have few children. If the 7th house or the Mavamsa 
belongs to Saturn, Mars or the Sun, she will have a 
diseased womb. If malefics be in the 4th house, she 
will be unchaste. If J:he Ascendant, the Moon or Venus 
were to be in a Rasi or Plavamsa owned by Saturn or 
Mars, she will be a prostitute. ...4 

If a benefic planet owns the 7th house or 
riavamsa, the woman will be handsome and fortunate. 
If the Moon, the Ascendant, or the 4th house be 



14^ ( STREE JATAKA ^ 

associated with a benefic, the woman will be chaste 
and possessed of good qualities. If benefics are in 
the 5th and 7th, she will be happy, wealthy, good 
and have children. If the above houses be occupied 
by weak benefics or by malefics, she will be barren 
or give birth to still-born children. ...5 

When the Moon of the Ascendant is in a sign 
belonging to Mars (i.e. Aries or Scorpio) and the 
Trimsamsa of the Moon belongs to Mars, the woman 
will be wicked; if the Trimsamsa of the Moon belongs 
to Saturn (Capricorn or Aquarius) she will be an 
unchaste menial; if the Trimsamsa of the Moon belongs 
to Jupiter {Sagittarius or Pisces), she will be virtuous 
and prosperous; in a sign belonging to Mercury (Gemini 
or Virgo) she will be deceitful and in that of Venus 
(Taurus or Libra) she will be frail and passionate. 
When the Moon of the Ascendant is in a sign owned 
by Venus (Taurus and Libra) and the Trimsamsa 
belongs to Mars, the woman will be very frail i.e. 
unchaste; in the case of Trimsamsa to Saturn she will 
have liaison with another man; in the case of Jupiter, 
she will be highly respected; in the case of Mercury 
she will be intelligent and in the case of Venus she 
will be very famous. 

When the Moon or the Ascendant is in a house 
of Mercury (Gemini or Virgo), and the Trimsamsa of 
the Moon belongs to Mars, she will be dishonest in 
the case of Saturn, she will be eunuch; in the case 
of Jupiter, she will be chaste; in the case of Mercury, 
she will be possessed of good qualities and in the 
case of Venus, she will he discontented. ...6 



c 



STREE JATAKA \ (15 



If the Moon or the Ascendant be posited in Cancer 
and the Trimsamsa of the Moon belongs to Mars, the 
woman will be self-willed; in the Trimsamsa of Saturn, 
she will kill her husband; in the Trimsamsa of Jupiter 
she will be endowed with man good qualities; in the 
Trimsamsa of Mercury, she will be skilful in the arts, 
music and handwork; in the Trimsamsa of Venus, she 
will be virtuous. >..7 

If the Moon or the ascendant be posited in 
Sagittarius or Pisces (the signs of Jupiter), and the 
Trimsamsa of the Moon belongs to Mars, she will be 
possessed of many good qualities; the Trimsamsa 
belonging to Saturn she will be disinterested in 
anything; in that belonging to Jupiter, she will have 
excellent qualiites; in that belonging to Mercury, she 
will excel In handwork; in that belonging to Venus, 
she will be very chaste. 

When the Moon or the Lagna is posited in the 
signs of Saturn (Aquarius and Capricorn) and the 
Trimsamsa of the Moon belongs to Mars, the woman 
will be a maid servant; in the case of the Trimsamsa 
belonging to Saturn, she will be attached to another 
man; in that belonging to Mercury she will be unchaste, 
and in the case of the Trimsamsa belonging to Venus, 
she will be barren and poor. 

When the Moon or the Lagna is posited in the 
sign of the Sun (namely Leo) and the Trimsamsa of 
the Moon belongs to Mars, she will be the wife of a 
wicked man; in that belonging to Saturn she will of a 
despicable character; in that of Jupiter, she will marry 
a king, in the Trimsamsa belonging to Mercury, she 



16 I ( STREE JATAKA 



c 



will be of a masculine disposition and in that belonging 
to Venus she will be attached to another man. ...7 

The effects given above ^ire due to the Trimsamsa 
of the Moon belonging to Mars, Saturn, Jupiter, Mercury 
and Venus when the Moon or the Ascendant is posited 
in the various houses from Aries onwards. These 
effects will come to pass either In respect of the 
Moon or the rising Trimsamsa according as the Moon 
or the Ascendant is stronger. 

It is stated by astrologists that a woman born 
under the star Jyeshtha wil] Jose her husbands eldest 
brother, under Aslesha will lose her mother-in-law, 
under Moola her father-in-law, under Chitta, Aardraa, 
Jyeshtha, Satabhisha, Moola, Krlttika and Pushya will 
become widows or be barren, or have her children 
die, or be divorced or poor. 

NOTE . 

The woman born in the first Pada of Jyeshtha *will 
not lose her elder brother-in-law-; not the one born in 
the third Pada of Visaakha her younger brother-in-law. 
Also the woman born in the last Pada of Moola will 
not lose her father-in-law and the woman born in first 
Pada of Aslesha will not lose her mother-in-law. This 
additional verse is to be seen in, some books. ,'„9 

If the Moon and the lords of the 7th 1st and 9th 
houses associated with benefies, be posited in good 
houses and be of brilliant rays (i.e. not eclipsed), the 
woman will be highly honoured by her rejatives, will 
perform good deeds, be pretty and prosperous, please 
her husband, have good children, be good-natured 



[ 8TREE JATAKA ^ M7 

and chaste. The period of her happy life with her 
husband will be dependent on the strength obtained 
by the benefics in the 8th house ...10 

When the Moon is in the 1,2,4,5,7,8,9 and 12th 
places and aspected by Mars in a woman's horoscope, 
it is a favourabie time for conception for her and at 
other times infertile. When the Moon occupies 3,6,10 
and 11th houses and is aspected by Jupiter in the 
husband's horoscope, his seed will be fertile. But this 
is to be done at an auspicious time unconnected tjy 
full Moon, Tyaajya and objectionable period. 

From PARASARA SAMHITAA 

General 

(}) When the lord of the 7th occupies the 6th, 
the 8th or the 12th house, not being its own house, 
the wife will be frequently ill. (Obviously this means 
that if 6,8 or 12 happens to be the house of the lord 
of the 7th it is not harmful. That is, Saturn is the lord 
of the 7th and the 8th to Cancer and the 6th and the 
7th to Leo. Likewise, Mars for Taurus and Venus for 
Scorpio happens to be the 7th ancLthe 12th. This 
Sloka therefore applies only to the following 4 signs 
as Lagna, I.e. Taurus, Cancer, Leo and Scorpio. 

(2) By means of the 7th Bhava and the lord 
of the 7th Bhava, effects regarding wife children and 
travel can be predicted. Benefits can be inferred if 
beneficial planets are there and evil inferred from 
malefics. 



Q STREE JATAKA J 



Many Wives 

(3) Jhe person will be lascivious, if Venus is in 
the 7th Bhava. Venus associated with a malefic, 
wherever posited, causes death of wife. 

(4) If the lord of the 7th is either associated 
with or aspected by a benefic, or if the 7th lord is 
strong and fully bright, the person will be a lord, 
good-natured, generous and prosperous. He will be 
endowed with a lot of property and grains. 

(5) The person is stated to have several wives, 
if the lord of the 7th is in exaltation or in retrograde 
movement, or even if In enemy's house or debilitated 
sign, or in eclipse. 

(6) Many wives will the person have, it is 
predicted, if the 7th lord is in high exaltation and 
aspected by a benefic or if Venus in exaltation occupies 
the 7th house. 

(7) If the Sun is in the 7th the person will have 
union with a barren woman. Mis women will be likened 
to the signs occuped by the Moon. If Mars is in the 
7th the person will have union with a woman in 
periods and a barren woman. 

(8) If Mercury is In the 8th, the union will be 
with a prostitute, a low class woman and a business 
woman; if Jupiter the union will be with a high class 
lady and a pregnant woman. 

(9) Union with low class woman and one in 
periods is predicted if Rahu, Ketu or Saturn is in the 
7th house. Venus gives the person union with a woman 



( STREE JATAKA^^ 



having lovely bosom; and Saturn with a weak ailing 
woman. If the Sun is In the 7th the person's wife will 
have uplifted strong breasts, lovely and fair. 

(10) If a malefic is in the 12th or the 7th and a 
waning Moon in the 5th the native will be a slave to 
his wife and be inimical to his own tribe. 

(11) If Saturn or Mars is posited in the 7th, and 
if the lord of the 7th is in the house of Mars, the 
person's wife will be a prostitute or have secret liaison 
with another person. There Is no doubt about this; 

(12) If Venus is in the Amsa of Mars or in the 
house of Mars or associated with or aspected by 
Mars, the person will indulge in masturbation. 

Of good wives 

(13) The person will have a good wife if the lord 
of the 7th is in exaltation, or a benefic is posited in 
the 7th and the lord of Lagna is strong. 

(14) Wise men predict the loss of wife, if the 
lord of the 7th is in an enemy's or debilitated or 
eclipsed or aspected by a malefic, and the 7th house 
is occupied by or aspected by a malefic. 

(15) The same is the case if the lord of the 7th 
is weak or occupies the 6th, the 8th or the 12th 
house, or is in debilitated sign or Amsa. 

(16) The wife will be ill if the Moon is in the 7th, 
and the lord of the 7th in the 12th and the Karaka 
of spouse is weak. 



20 1 ( STREE JATAKA 



c 



(17) The man will have two wives, if the lord of 
the 7th is a malefic and occupies a debilitated or 
malefic house together with other malefic planets, 
and the neutral planets/ Saturn and Mercury, are in 
the 7th house or in Udaya' Mavamsa. 

(18) The man will have three wives if Mars is in 
the 7th and Saturn is in the 7th place from Venus 
and the lord of Lagna is in the 8th house. 

(19) Me will have many wives if Venus is in a 
common sign. 

Dates of Marriage 

(20) If the lord of the 7th is in a benefic sign 
and Venus is in his exalted or own house, the person 
will get married in his 5th or 7th year. 

(21) If Venus is in a quadrant of Lagna and the 
lord of Lagna is in the 4th or the 7th the person will 
be married in his 1 1th year. 

(22) Marriage wili be in his 12th or 21st year, if 
Venus is in the 4th, the 7th or the 10th house and 
Saturn is in the 7th place from Venus. 

(23) Marriage will be in his 15th year if Venus is 
in the 7th place from the Moon and Saturn in in the 
7th place from Venus. 

(24) It will be in his 15th year, if the lord of the 
2nd is in the 1 1th and the lord of Lagna in the 10th. 

(25) It will be In his 13th year if the lord of the 
2nd is tfi the lltH and the lord of the 11th in the 
2nd house. 



c 



ST REE JATAKA I [21 



(26) If Venus is in the 8th place from the 7th 
(i.e. the 2nd house) and the lord of the 2nd is 
together with Mars, the person will get married in his 
22nd or 27th year. 

(27) Marriage will be in his 23rd or 26th year, if 
the lord of Lagna is in the 7th Amsa, and the lord of 
the 7th is in the 1 2th. 

(28) It will be in his 25th or 33rd year if the lord 
of the 8th is in the 7th and the lord of Lagna is 
together with Venus. 

(29) If Venus is in the 9th place from the 9th 
house (i.e. the 5th house) and if Rahu is In the 42th 
from Venus (i.e. the 4th house) the marriage can be 
predicted to take place in his 30th or 2.7th year. 

Death of wife 

(30) If the lord of the 7th is in a debilitated sign, 
and Venus is in the 8th or 6th the person will lose his 
wife in his 18th or 33rd year. 

(31) Me will lose his wife in his 19th year if the 
lord of the 7th is in the 8th and the lord of the 12th 
is in the 7th house. 

(32) If Rahu is in the 2nd house, and Mars in the 
7th the person will lose his wife by snake bite on the 
third day of marriage. 

(33) Death of wife In his 12th or 19th year is to 
be predicted if Venus is in the 8th, and the lord of 
the 8th in the sign of Saturn (i.e. Capricorn or 
Aquarius.) 



22 1 I _ STREE JATAKA 



c 



(34) If the lord of Lagna is in a debilitated sign, 
and the lord of the 2nd in the 8th, the person will 
lose his wife in his 13th year. 

(35-36) If the Moon is in the 7th from Venus and 
Mercury is in the 7th From the Moon and the lord of 
the 8th in the 5th house, the person will marry his 
first wife in the 10th year, the second wife in his 
22nd year and the third and the third wife in his 33rd 
year. 

Prediction according to the position of Lord of 
the 7th 

(1) If the lord of the 7th is in Lagna or in the 
7th house itself the person will be interested in other 
women; he will be a rogue but efficient in any work 
given, bold but suffering from rheumatic aliment in 
the chest. 

(2) The person will marry one who will ever be 
ailing, if the lord of the 7th is either in the 8th or 7th 
house. He will be angry and never be happy. 

(3) He will have liasion with several women, if 
the lord of the 7th is either in the 9th or the 2nd 
house. He will begin in so many undertakings but 
never complete them in time, as his mind is always 
with women. 

(4) If the lord of the 7th is either \n the I Oth 
or the 4th , the person's wife is not chaste. He will 
be generous and truthful but suffer from dental trouble. 

(5) If the lord of the 7th is in the 3rd or the 



( STREE JATAKA J 



11th the person's sons will die soon after birth. He 
will have a daughter born late in life who will survive. 

(6) If the lord of the 7th is in the 12th the 
person will be a miser and pauper, but he will be a 
great man nonetheless. Mis wife will be the daughter 
of a spy. (Now we can say, daughter of a C.l.D./ 
C.B.1. Officer) Me will be selling textile goods but 
having financial trouble. 

(7) If the lord of the 7th is in the 5th house, 
the person will always be happy, respectable, 
possessed of all good qualities wealthy and prosperous. 

From JATAKA TATTVA 

In giving the effects of the 7th Bhava, the first 20 
verses refer to the effects of the 3rd and the 4th 
Bhavas and so we are beginning with Sloka 21. 

(21) If Mars and the Sun are in the 1 2th to 
Wavamsa Lagna at the time of birth, the person will 
be a debauchee. 

(22) The person will have relations with other 
women till the time of his death if Ketu was posited 
into Navamsa Lagna, 

(23) He will be valorous and great and also a 

debauchee, if the lord of the 2nd is in either the 3rd 

or the 4th house. 

i 

(24) He will be a rake if the lord of the 7th is in 

Lagna or in the 7th. 

(25) If the lord of the 7th is either in the 12th 
or the 2nd the person will have sexual relations with 
several women. 




24^ ( STREE JATAKA ^ 



(26) He will be a rake, if Venus, Saturn and Mars 
are in their 'Varga* and Saturn and Mars aspect the 
7th house. 

(27) If Saturn and Mars are together with the 
Moon in the 7th house, both the husband and wife 
will be profligates. 

Incest 

(28) If either the Moon or Venus is in a quadrant 
and is aspected by or associated with a malefic and 
posited in an evil Amsa is going towards a debilitated 
planet, the native will have Incestuous relations with 
his mottier. 

(29) If the Sun and the Moon are associated with 
or aspected by a malefic and are in a quadrant, 
incest with mother is predicted. 

(30) Incestuous relations with one similar to 
mother is predicted, if the lord of the 4th is associated 
with or aspected by a malefic, and unaspected by a 
benefic, and if the lord of the Lagna is weaker than 
the lord of the 7th. 

(31) riot given since it is absurd. 

(32) Incest with sister is predicted if the lord of 
the 7th is either associated with or aspected by a 
malefic, is posited in the 4th or in an evil Amsa. 

(33) The same is the case when Saturn aspected 
by a malefic is in the 4th house. 

(34) If the Sun is in the 7th, the person will 
have sexual relations with a barren woman. 



Q STREE JATAKA ^ (^25 

(35) If Mars is in the 7th the person will have 
union with a barren woman and a woman in periods. 

(36) If Saturn and Mercury are in the 12th the 
union will be with a prostitute* 

(37) If Jupiter is in the 7th the union will be with 
a high class lady. 

(38) Union will be with a pregnant woman if 
either Rahu Venus or Saturn is In the 7th house. 

(39) Union with a black hunchback is predicted 
if Saturn is in the 7th, 

Incest with Guru's wife 

(40) If the Moon associated with a malefic is in 
the 9th, the person will have sexual relations with the 
wife of his preceptor. 

(41) The same is the case if Venus together with 
a malefic is in the 9th. 

(42) Also when the Moon and the lord of the 9th 
or Venus and the lord of the 9th are associated with 
a malefic. 

(43) Again when the lord of the 9th is debilitated 
and is in a debilitated Amsa and is together with 
Venus. 

(44) If the Moon is in the 9th the person will 
have union with an old woman. 

(45) If the lord of the 9th is debilitated the person 
will have union with a woman related to the preceptor 



26^ Q STREE JATAKA ^ 



Debauchery 

(46) The person will be a rake if the lords of the 
1st and the 6th houses are associated with a malefic. 

(47) The same is the case when the waning Moon 
together with a malefic is in the 7th house or when 
associated with the lords of the 8th or the 9th. 

(48) If the lord of the 7th is together with a 
malefic the native will speciaily be a debauchee. 

(49) If the Noon and Saturn are together In the 
7th the couple will be profligates. 

(50) Mercury in the 7th makes the person a 
debauchee. 

(51) If either the lord of Lagna or the lord of the 
7th in the Amsa is in debilitated or inimical house or 
eclipsed the person will have another wife. 

(52) He will be a rake, if Venus and Jupiter are 
together with a malefic in the 2nd, the 7th or the 5th 
house. 

(53) The same misfortune comes if the lord of 
Lagna is associated with a malefic, 

(54) If the lord of Lagna is in Lagna itself, the 
person will have two wives or be a debauchee. 

Slokas 55 to 59 are absurd. 

Abnormal relations 

(60) If malefics are in three quadrants the person 
will have relations with his wife as with a cow. 



Q STREE JATAKA J ^27 

(61) If Venus and the lord of the 7th are In the 
house of Mars the person will have a tendency to 
clitorai titillation. 

(62) The same is the case when the lord of the 
10th is in the house of Mars and is together with 
Venus and aspected by Saturn. 

(63) if the lord of Lagna or the lord of the 2nd 
Is in debilitated sign, and in a debilitated Amsa and 
is weak, the same tendency prevails. 

number of marriages 

(64) As many marriages will the person have as 
the number of very strong planets occupying the 7th 
house or being aspected by the lord of the 7th, or as 
many planets in hte 8th house or being aspected by 
the lord of the 8th. 

(65) Only one marriage is predicted if the lords 
of the 7th and the 2nd are in debilitated signs, and 
benefics are in 'quadrants. 

(66) There will be only one marriage for the 
person if in the Amsas of Mars and the Sun. Mercuiy 
and Jupiter are posited. 

(67) Also when the 7th Mavamsa is that of Jupiter, 
and Mercury Is posited there. 

(68) If the lord of the 8th is in Lagna or the 7th 
the person will have two wives. 

(69) If the Lagna lord Is in the 6th, the native 
will have two wives. 



C2&\ f STREE JATAKA \ 

I 

(70) He will have two wives if the lord of the 
2nd is in the 6th and a malefic is in the 7th; 

(71) Also when the lord -of the 7th is together 
with a benefic and occupies an enemy's house or a 
debilitated one and a malefic Is in the 7th. 

(72) The Karaka of the spouse (Venus) associated 
with a malefic, occupying debilitated house, or enemy's 
house or the house of an eclipsed planet or in their 
Amsa gives the person two wives. 

(73) If there are several malefics in the 7th house 
the person will have two wives. 

(74) Three wives the person will have, if malefics 
are in the 2nd house and aspected by the lord of the 
2nd. 

(75) If many malefics are in the 7th and not 
aspected by the lord of the 7th person will have three 
wives. 

(76) The same is the case when malefics are in 
the 1st, the 2nd, and the 7 th houses and the lord of 
the 7th is debilitated, or eclipsed or in enemy's house. 

(77) The person will have several wives, if the 
planet in Lagna is in high exaltation and the lord of 
Lagna is also in its exalted house. 

(78) The same is the case when the Moon and 
Venus are together and strong. 

(79) If the 7th housd is aspected by strong Venus, 
the native will have several wives. 



c 



STREE JATAKA \ (29 



(80) The same prediction is given if the lords of 
the 1st the 2nd and the 6th are together with maiefics 
and occupy the 7th house. 

(81) Also when Saturn is the iord of the 7th and 
is associated with maiefics. 

(82) If a strong Moon is in the 3rd from the lord 
of the 7th many wives can be predicted. 

(83) Again when the lords of the 2nd and the 
i2th are in the 3rd house and aspected by Jupiter or 
the lord of the 9th, 

(84) The same prediction when the lord of the 
7th is either in a quadrant or a trine/ and is in 
benefic 'Shadvarga' and is aspected by the lord of the 
10th and is in full strength* 

(85) There will be several wives, if the lords of 
the 7th and the 1 1th are associated together or aspect 
each other. 

One hundred wives 

(87) If the lord of the Arnsa occupied by the 
Amsa lord of the owner of the 7th house is together 
with a benefic or with Mercury and is strong and in 
Taaraavata' Amsa the native will have hundred wives. 

(88) if in the 7th place from the ftavamsa Lagna 
Jupiter and the Moon are posited, the wife of the 
person wili be very beautiful. 

(89) If Saturn is In the 7th piace from Lagnamsa, 
the wife wiil be oider than the husband. 



( STREE JATAKA J 



(90) If Mars is in the 7th place from Lagnamsa, 
the wife will be defective in limb. 

(91) If Mercury is In the 7th place from 
Lagnamsa, the wife will be learned and scholarly. 

(92) if Mercury and Ketu are in Lagna, the wife 
will be ailing. 

(93) The wife will have an ailment In the nose, 
if Saturn and Mars occupy the house of Mercury or 
Mars or are in Lagna. 

(94) If the lord of the 7 th is in the 4th or the 
1 0th the wife will be very chaste. 

(95) But if the lord of the 7th is in the 8th the 
wife will be an angry and ailing woman. 

(96) If Saturn and Mercury are in the 7th the 
bride who comes will already be a married woman. 
(In experience, it is noted that the woman was engaged 
to one but later marriages another). 

(97) The same is the case if Saturn and the 
Moon are in the 7th house. 

(98) The number of Amsa occupied by the lord 
of the 7th determines the number of wives the person 
will have* 

Good wife 

(99) If either the lord of the 7th or the Karaka 
(Venus) is either together with or aspected by a benefic 
or Is posited between betiefics, the person will have 
a chaste wife. 



Q STREE JATAKA ~"^ 



(100) If Jupiter is in the 7th house, the person 
will be devoted to his wife. 

(101) If the 7th house is that of a beneficial 
planet, the person will get a good wife. 

(102) The same is the case when Venus is in its 
exaltation or in own Shadvarga or in the Gopura' 
Amsa. 

(103) The wife will be very chaste if the lord of 
the 7th is aspected by Jupiter and is strong. 

(104) If the Sun is the lord of the 7th and 
aspected by a benefic, the wife will be chaste. 

(105) The same is the case if Venus is the lord of 
the 7th and is aspected by a benefic. 

(106) If Jupiter is in the 7th, the wife will be 
philanthropic and chaste. 

(107)The wife will be chaste, if the lord of the 
7th is in a quadrant or in a beneficial Amsa and is 
either together with or aspected by a benefic. 

(I08)If the 7th house is aspected by Jupiter, the 
woman will be of very good character. 

(109) If Rahu is In the 7th from Lagnamsa (it can 
also be started as the 4th from Lagnamsa), the woman 
will becom a widow. (Here it may also mean one who 
lives apart from her husband.) 

(1 10) If the lords of the 6th, the 8th and the 9th 
are associated with and aspected by malefics, the 
woman will be a whore. 



C 3 Q £ 3TREE JATAKA ^ 

(lll)lf the lord of the 8th is in the 8th the 
woman will be a whore. 

(11 2) If Saturn is in the 7th house, the person 
will get a bad woman. 

(1 13)-lf the lord of. Amsa occupied by the lord of 
the 7th is a malefic, the woman will be of bad 
character 

(1 14)The same is the case if the lord of the 7th 
is in an 'evil' Shashthyamsa. 

(1 15) Also when the lord of the 7th or the Karaka 
(Venus) is in a debilitated sign or debilitated Amsa. 

I 16) Again the woman will be bad, if the Sun is 
the lord of the 7th and occupies a malefic sign or 
Amsa and is either associated with or aspected by a 
malefic. 

(117) If the Moon is the lord of the 7th and is an 
evil Amsa, the woman will be bad. 

(118) If the Moon is in the 7th house the wife 
will be like a servant maid. 

(119) If Saturn in Lagna is in "Ruksha" sandhi (i.e. 
the end portion of Cancer or Scorpio or Pisces) and 
Venus is in the 7th house the wife will be barren. 

(120) If the lard of the 3rd and Venus are in the 
7th the woman will be a eunuch. 

Another wife 

(121) The native marries another wife when the 
lord of the 7th is wfeak in the 7th house and is 
aspected by a malefic. 



c 



Sf REE JATAKA ft ( 33 



(122) The same is the case when the lord of the 
2nd is occupying the 2nd house and Is associated 
with or aspected by a planet with a malefic. 

(123) Also when malefics are in the 7th and the 
8th and Mars Is in the 12th. 

(124) Again the second wife is predicted when 
the lord of the Lagna or the lord of the 7th is weak 
and occupies a 'Muudha" Amsa. 

Early marriage 

(125) if the lord of the Lagna is near the lord of 
the 7th, early marriage even as a boy is predicted. 

(126) If a benefic is near the lord of the Lagna or 
the lord of the 7th early marriage will take place. 

(127) The same will be the case when the lord of 
the 7th is in Taaraavta" Amsa and is strong, and also 
when the lord of the 7th is in the 2nd house and is 
strong. 

(128) Marriage will take place in a distant country 
if either the Karaka (Venus) or the lord of the 7th is 
together with a malefic in a trine. 

(129) if the lord of the 7th is with a benefic,- the 
wife will have a buxom bosom. 

(130) If the lord of the 7th is together with a 
malefic the woman will have a long clitoris. 

(131) The clitoris will be short if the 7th is the 
house of Mercury, the Moon or saturn.. 



(^34^ Q STREE JATAKA ^ 

(132) If the lord of the 7th is in a watery sign, 
the woman's genitalia will be wet. 

(133) The same is the case the when either Venus 
or the 7th house is a wet sign. 

(134) Also when the 7th house is aspected by 
the Moon or when Venus is in a wet sign. 

(135) Again when Mercury is in a wet sign and 
aspected by Saturn. 

(136) The same prediction is given when the Moon 
is either in the 7th or in the Amsa of a watery sign. 

Loss of wife 

(137)The wife will die if the Sun is in Lagna and 
Saturn is in the 7th. 

(138) If the 8th or the 4th place from Venus is 
flanked by malefics, the wife wiil die by rope (hanging). 

(139) If Venus is together with a malefic and 
unaspected by a benefic, the wife dies of fire burns. 

(140) if Venus and the Sun are in the 9th, the 
7th, or the 5th house the person loses his wife. 

(141) The native loses wife when Saturn and Mars 
are in the 7th house from the Moon and are associated 
with Venus. 

(142) This is the case when Saturn is in the 8th, 
Mars in the 6th and Rahu in the -7th. 

(143) Death of wife is also Indicated when a 
debilitated planet is in Lagna or the lord of Lagna is 
debilitated. 



( STREE JATAKA J 



(144) The wife's death is caused by public 
calumny if Rahu and Saturn are in Lagna. 

(145) When Venus is together with either the lord 
of the 7th or the lord of the 9th f the person wili lose 
as many wives as the number of malefics aspecting 
the planet Venus, 

(146) When the 7th house either from Lagna or 
from the Moon is aspected either by a benefic or the 
lord of the 7th or associated with it, the person will 
have a happy married life. 

(147) Death of wife is indicated if the Sun is in 
Virgo and Saturn in Pisces, 

(148) Fire accident to wife is predicted if malefics 
are in the 4th and 8th places from Venus. 

(149) Death due to a fall from high place is 
possible if malefics are on either side of Venus. 

(150) Death by hanging (rope) is indicated if Venus 
is neither associated with nor aspected by a benefic. 

(151) Danger to wife is predicted when the lord 
of the 6th is associated with Venus. 

(152) If the lord of the 5th is in the 7th and 
Venus as lord of the 7th is associated with a malefic 
and is weak, the wife dies in confinement. 

*(153) Death of wife is indicated If either Venus or 
the Moon is debilitated and occupies teh 4th house. 

(154) The same is the case if the lord of the 7th 
is in a cruel Shashthyamsa. 



36 1 ( STREE JATAKA 



c 



Short affliction 

(155) If any of the planets Saturn, Mars, Rahu or 
Ketu is in the 7th house the wife will be afflicted by 
ghost— possession. 

(156) A malefic in eclipse and weakened 
occupying the 7th house causes death of wife. - - 

(157) Also when Venus and Mercury are in the 
7th house, 

(158) Death is also indicated if the Moon is in 
the 12th and Venus in the 7th. 

(159) If the Sun in full strength occupies the 7th, 
death of wife is likely. 

(J 60) Also when Mars is in the 7th and the lord 
of the 2nd is in the 6th house. 

(161) If a malefic were in the 7th place from 
Venus or if Venus is associated with a malefic, the 
wife's face would be disfigured. 

(162) If Venus occupies the house of a retrograde 
planet the person will give happiness to wife in bed. 

Conjugal bliss 

(163) If the lord of Lagna aspects the planet 
occupying own house and Venus in the 7th house, 
the person will have a happy married life. . 

(164) He will have conjugal bliss if Saturn and 
the Moon are in the 1 0th or the 4th place from the 
Moon, 



c 



STREE JATAKA 1 ( 37 



(165) If Saturn arid the Moon are in the Libra 
Amsa, the person will be engaged in trade and 
merchandise. 

(166) The same is the case when the above 
planets are in the Amsa of Mercury or in Cancer 
Amsa. 

(167) Also when Mercury and Mars are together. 
From SARVAARTHA CHINTAAMANI 

(1) By investigating into the 7th Bhava, one can 
predict about the native's marriage and attainment of 
conjugal bliss, as also about thefts, kidney affliction 
and income, expenditure, dhall, curd, milk, jaggery 
etc. 

(2) If Venus is to be in the 7th, the person will 
be very lascivious; if Mercury, he will be attached to 
other women; if Jupiter, he will be very loving towards 
his own ife; If Saturn he wiil cling to a bad woman; 
and if the Moon, he will be very generous. 

(3) If, on the other hand, Mars is in the 7th 
house, the person will be attached to several women; 
and if the Sun, the person will cause the destruction 
of his family clan. 

If the lords of the 2nd, the 7th and the 6th are 
together with Venus and a malefic, and occupy the 
Lagna, the person will be a family man and interested 
in several wives. 



<S> 



C 



STREE JATAKA 



Debauchery 

(4) The above mentioned Yogas make the person 
interested in other women and lead him to evil ways. 
But if aspected by benefics he will be otherwise. If 
the lords of the 1st and the 6th are together with a 
malefic, the person will not only be interested in 
womenfolk but will be a pander furnishing others with 
women, 

(5) The person will be lecherous if either the 
lord of Lagna or the lord of the 2nd or the 6th is 
together with a malefic and occupies the 7th house, 
or if Saturn or the lord of the 7th together with a 
malefic is in the 2nd house. 

(6) The same will be the case if the lord of the 
7th together with Rahu or Ketu is aspected by a 
malefic. Also when the lord of the 2nd or the 7th is 
in the 10th house. 

Illegitimate birth 

(7-8) If in the above-mentioned planets one is in 
the 4th house the native has relations with other 
women. If the lord of the 5th or the lord of the 7th 
is strong and is associated with or aspected by the 
lord of the 6th the native becomes childless. If the 
lord of the 7th is aspected by a benefic, his wife will 
get a child by her paramour. Also when the lord of 
the 7th is together with a malefic and is aspected by 
Mars and occupies the 2nd house, the native's son 
will be born to his wife's paramour. 

Severai wives 

(9) If the lord of the 5th or, the 9th is together 
with the lord of the 7th and is weak and posited in 



Q STREE JATAKA J 



the 6th, the 8th or the 12th house, and is associated 
with or aspected by a beneflc the person will have 
many wives but remain childless. 

(10) If the waning Moon is together with a malefic 
and is posited in the 7th house, the person will have 
relations with another married woman. Further if the 
lord of the 7th is together with a malefic and occupies 
the Lagna the person will not only be after other 
women but will be a pander providing women to 
others. 

(11) The wife of the person will die in 
confinement if the lord of the 5th is in the 7th and 
the lord of the 7th is together with a malefic and 
Venus is weak. 

(12-13) If Venus or the Moon is in a debilitated 
sign the wife will die by drowning. If the lord of the 
7th is in either Faasa' or Sarpa' decanate, the wife 
wili die by hanging. If the lord of the 7th is either 
with Rahu or Maandi, the wife will die by poisoning. 
If the lord of the 2nd is in the 2nd and the lord of 
the 7th in, 7 the person wiii have only one wife. 

number of wives 

(14) The number of wives is reckoned by the 
number of planets associated with the lord of the 2nd 
or the lord of the 7th; or by the number of planets 
in the house occupied by the lord in whose house is 
posited the iord of the 7th. 

(15) If the lord of the 7th is in exaltation or in 
retrograde position, the person may be of very good 
character and if posited in Lagna, the person will 
have many wives* 



40 1 [ STREE JATAKA 



c 



(.16)" If the lord of Lagna Is in the 8th and a 
malefic in the 7th and the lord of family (the 7th) in 
the 8th the person 'will have two wives. 

(17) Death of a wife Is predicted if the lord of 
the 7th Saturn^ Mars and Rahu are together and In an 
'evil' Shashthyamsa. 

(18) The native will have two wives if the lord of 
the 7th is together with a benefic in a debilitated or 
enemy's house and a malefic is in the 7th house. 

(19) The same prediction when the Karaka (Venus) 
is together with a malefic and is In the Amsa of a 
debilitated sign and aspected by a malefic. 

(20) Among the Venus (Karaka), the Moon, 
Mercury, Jupiter or Venus by whoever is greater in 
strength^ can be determined the fate of the person. 

More wives 

(21) The person gets another wife if the lord of 
the 7th or the 2nd is weak and If the 7th or the 2nd 
house is together with or aspected by a malefic. 

(22) The same is the case when a malefic is in 
the 7th or the 8th and Mars is in the 12th and 
unaspected by the lord of the 12th. 

(23) Three wives are to be predicted if the 2nd 
or the 7th house occupied by several maiefics and 
unaspected by the iord of that house. 

(24) The same prediction is to be given when 
a; malefic is in Lagna, the 2nd or the 7th house and 
the lord of the 7th is debilitated or eclipsed. 



c 



STREE JATAKA i (41 



(25) Another wife is to be predicted for the 
person if either the lord of Lagna or the lord of the 
7th is in debilitated sign or eclipsed or in the enemy's 
house or in the cruel Shasthyamsa. 

(26) If the lord of the Mavamsa occupied by the 
lord of the 7th is a debilitated sign, or eclipsed or in 
the enemy's Amsa and the Bhava maleflcs or aspected 
by a malefic, the person will have another wife. 

(27) The death of wife is predicted if the lord of 
the 2nd or the lord of the Amsa occupied by Venus 
(Karaka) or if either the 7th house or the lord of the 
7th is flanked by maleflcs. 

Many wives 

(28) If a strong Mercury is in the 10th place from 
the lord of Lagna and if the Moon is in the 3rd place 
from the lord of the 7th, the person will have union 
with several women. 

(29) The same is the case when the lord of the 
12th and the 2nd are in the 3rd house and aspected 
by either Jupiter or the lord of the 9th house. 

(30) If the lord of the 7th is in a quadrant or a 
time or in 'Swocha mitrasva' Varga or associated with 
the lord of the 10th the person will be friendly with 
several women. 

(31) Similar fortune betides the person if either 
the lords of the 1 1 th and the 7th are together or 
aspect each other or in trines being strong. 



42 1 ( STREE JATAKA 



c 



(32) Many wives the person will have if the lord 
of the 9th is in the 7th and the lord of the 7th in the 
4th and if either the lord of the 1 1th or the occupant 
of the 7th Bhava is in a quadrant. 

(33) If the lord of the Amsa occupied by the lord 
of Havamsa wherein is posited the lord of the 7th 
together with a benefic (Mercury) and is strong and in 
'paaraavata' Amsa, the native will have union with 
100 women* 

(34) If the lord of the 'Shashthyamsa' occupied 
by the lord of the Amsa wherein is posited the lord 
of the sign occupied by the lord of the 2nd house is 
strong and is in 'Mridu' or 'Gopura' Amsa, the person 
will have 200 wives. 

(35) 300 wives are predicted if the lord of the 
Amsa occupied by the lord of the sign who is together 
with the lord of the Amsa wherein is posited the 
Karaka (Venus) is in 'Mridu' or Gopura Amsa. 

(36-37) Prediction about wives is to be made by 
taking into account the malefics in the 7th house or 
those associated with the lord of the 7th and the 
Bhava for children (namely the 5th). 

Bad wife 

(38) If the lord of the Amsa occupied by the lord 
of the 7th is a malefic the native gets a bad wife. The 
same is the result If the lord of the 7th is in a cftjel 
Shashthyamsa. ' 



Q STREE JATAKA ^ ^43 

(39) If either the lord of the 7th or the Karaka 
(Venus) is in a debillitted sign or Amsa, and unaspected 
by a benefic, the person gets a bad wife. 

Good wife 

(40) The person gets a good wife when the lord 
of the 7th is associated with and aspected by benefics 
and is posited between benefics. 

(41) When the lord of the 7th is a good sign or 
Amsa and the Karaka too likewise, or the lord of the 
10th is strong, the person is blessed with a good 
wife. 

(42) The same is the case when Venus is in his 
own exalted house, friend's house, own 'Shadvarga* or 
in Qopura' or 'Mridu' Amsa in 'Shashthyamsa'. 

(43) A strong lord of the 7th together with Jupiter 
or aspected by Jupiter and Karaka too likewise brings 
a very virtuous devoted wife* 

(44) The same fortune comes to the person, if 
the lord of the 7th is the Sun or Venus and aspected 
by a benefic or Jupiter is in the 7th. 

(45) Also when the lord of the 7th aspected by 
a benefic is in a quadrant or in a good sign or Amsa. 

Sinful wife 

(46) If the Sun is the lord of the 7th and is In 
Taparachya' Amsa and associated with or aspected by 
a malefic the wife will be of a sinful tendency. 



^44^ ^ STREE JATAKA J 

(47) But if the Sun is the lord of the 7th and 
strong and is either associated with or aspected by a 
benefic or in a benefic sign or Amsa or is the friend 
of the lord of Lagna the wife will be very devout and 
chaste. 

(48) If the lord of the 7th or the Moon is either 
associated with or aspected by a malefic and is in an 
'evil' Amsa or is in the midst of malefics the wife will 
be sinful and harsh in her punishment of others. 

(49) If however, the lord of spouse Venus and 
the Moon are in a beneficial Amsa or associated with 
a most friendly house or a 'soft' Shashthyamsa, the 
wife will be most devout and of good conduct and 
behaviour. 

(50) If Mars is the lord of the 7th and is weak 
and is in an evil' Shashthyamsa, or in a debilitated 
sign or the 6th house or eclipsed or In an enemy's 
house, the wife will be disobedient, head-strong and 
attached to other men. 

(51) If the lord of the 7th is a friendly Varga, or 
exalted Varga, and associated with or aspected by a 
benefic and is in a Faaraavata' Amsa and is strong, 
the wife although harsh and evil will be devout and 
well-wisher of her husband. 

(52) If Mercury is the lord of the 7th and is with 
a malefic in a debilitated sign or eclipsed or in an 
enemy's house or in the 8th house, and is between 
malefics or aspected by a malefic, the woman born in 
this Yoga will kill her husband and be destroyer of 
the family clan. 



(^ STREE JATAKA "^ (^45 

(53) if Mercury is the lord of the 7th, is strong, 
is In a most friendly Varga, or in Gopura" Amsa, the 
wife will be happy, have good sons, charitable, pure 
in body and mind due to devout and pious practices 
and of good character. 

Different planets as lord of the 7th house 

(54) With Venus as lord of the 7th, associated 
with a debilitated or malefic planet and posited in a 
debilitated sign, or eclipsed or in an 'evil' 
Shashthyamsa, the wife will be like a prostitute, harsh 
by nature and with stealing inclinations. 

(55) With Venus as the lord of the 7 th, strong 
and associated with a benefic or in a beneficial Amsa 
or in a friendly Varga, own house or soft ttavamsa, 
the wife will be very disputatious by nature but of 
good character and blessed with children. 

(56) But with Saturn as the lord of the 7th 
associated with a malefic or aspected by it, and in a 
debilitated sign or Amsa, or In an enemy's house or 
in a malefic Amsa, the wife will be having paramours, 
be wicked and bring ignominy and destruction of the 
family clan. 

(57) With Saturn as the lord of the 7th strong, 
the person will not only be a philanthropist but his 
wife too will be devout towards gods and Brahmins. 
If Jupiter aspects it, the person will be a scholar in 
spiritual subjects and if aspected by other benefics 
his wife will be pious, his wife will be pious, good 
and of noble character. 



46 1 f STREE JATAKA 



c 



(58) The wife of one with Rahu or Ketu in the 
7th will have attachment to other men; and if aspected 
by a malefic she will be sinful, and of bad character 
and if Rahu or Ketu were to be in 'evil' Amsa, the 
wife poisons her husband and incurs public ignominy 
and ill-fame. 

Early marriage 

(59) If the lord of the 7th is near the lord of 
Lagna the person will have an early marriage. The 
same is the case if a benefic is stronger than the 
lagna or the 7th house and is near it. 

(60) A similar prediction is made if either the 
Lagna, the 2nd or the 7th house is occupied by a 
benefic and in the benefic Shadvarga or if its lord is 
aspected by a benefic. 

(61) Also when the lord of the 7th is in a 
Taaraavata' Amsa and if the lord of family is strong 
and the lord of Lagna is in 'Mridu* Amsa. 

Fortune after marriage 

(62) If Venus is in the 7th, or in the 3rd, the 6th 
or Hth, and if the lord of the 2nd Bhava is in the 
above houses and if the lord of Lagna Is either 
associated with or aspected by a benefic the person 
will be happy after marriage. 

(63) But on the other hand, if the Karaka (Venus) 
or the lord of the 7th or the lord of family or the lord 
of the Lagna were to be in the 6th, 8th or 12th or 
associated with a malefic and Is in a debilitated Amsa, 
the person's fortune is destroyed after marriage. 



("■ STREE JATAKA ^ (^47 

(64) If the Karaka (Venus) or the above mentioned 

planets were ever to be in 'evil' Shashthyamsa but 

associated with or aspected by a benefic, the person 

althouth loses his fortunate in the beginning makes 

good his loss soon after 

#. 

(65) If evil planets (Mars, for instance) are in 

association with the lord of the 7th and in a trine, 
and Venus (karaka) in association with a malefic is 
posited in the family sign or in the I Oth, the marriage 
will be celebrated in a distant place* 

(66) If the I Oth is occupied by a malefic or, the 
2nd, 9th or the 7th by a malefic and if an 'evil' Amsa 
is aspected by a malefic, the marriage will take place 
in a distant region. 

The birth of children too is to be predicted 
likewise. 

Status of wife 

(67) The person will marrry in lower status if the 
lord of the 7th is weaker than the Lagna lord or is in 
enemy's Bhava or Amsa, or eclipsed or associated 
withn a debilitated planet in a debilitated Amsa. 

(68) But the native will marry in higher status, if 
the lord of the 7th is fully strong and greater than the 
lord of Lagna and is In a beneficial Amsa and aspected 
by a benefic, or is In high exaltation or in Vaisehika' 
Amsa. 

(69) If the lord of Lagna is weaker than the lord 
of the 7th and is associated with a malefic and is in 



( ^48^ ( STREE JATAKA J 

debilitated part in or the 8th house or is proceeding 
from the exalted to the debilitated, the native will be 
of a lower status than his wife. , 

(70) On the other hand, if. the lord of Lagna is 
stronger than the lord of the 7th and is proceeding 
frofti the debilitated to the exalted or is the highest 
exaltation or associated with a benefic or is in quadrant 
or trine, the person will be of a higher status than his 
wife. 

(71) Prediction is to be made by looking in to 
the lord of the 7th, or the 7th sign or the lord of 
family (or Karaka Venus). If the lord of Lagna and the 
lord of the 7th are of equal strength, the status of the 
husband and wife will be equal. The wife will be 
devout, quiet and chaste. 

(72) If the lord of the 7th is inimical to the lord 
of Lagna the wife's relatives will be enemies. If the 
lord of the 7th is friendly to the lord of Lagna the 
wife's people too would be friendly. 

(73) Whoever is stronger than the lord of the 7th 
house or the Karaka (Venus), the wife's colour is 
determined by that planet. 

(74) If Jupiter and Venus aspect the 7th house 
the wife will be beautiful and of good character. If the 
7th house is aspected bymalefics, the wife will be 
ugly and of bad character. 

rinding the Rasi of wife 

(75) Wise men declare that the Lagna of the wife 
is determined by the house occupied by the lord of 
the 7th, his own house or his exalted position. 



Q STREE JATAKA ^ (^49 

(76) The wife's Lagna is either of those three 
mentioned above or in the trine of the sign occupied 
by the lord of the 7th, 

If, however, the wife's Rasi is otherwise, then the 
person becomes childless. 

Of children 

(77) If the wife's Lagna were to be Taurus, Leo, 
Virgo or Scorpio she will have few children. If however 
the signs are occupied by benefics, she will have 
many good children. 

Of union 

(78) If the Sun is in the 7th the person will have 
union with a barren woman; if the Moon, union will 
be with one similar to the prostitute; if Mars, with a 
woman in periods and a barren woman. 

(79) If Mercury is in the 7th, the union is with a 
prostitute or with a poor business girl; if Jupiter, 
union with a highclass married woman; and if Venus 
with a pregnant woman. 

(80) If Saturn Rahu or Ketu is in the 7th union 
will be with a low class woman or with a woman in 
periods. 

If Rahu alone-with a pregnant woman. 

If Saturn alone-with a black, short woman. 

(81) Likewise can the status of women be 
determined by looking into the planets in the 4th 
house. Also the vehicle and house of the person can 
be found by the 4th house. 



<~> c 



STREE JATAKA 



(82) The enjoyment or possession of garden, 
house, playground, templei water, lion, elephant is 
indicated respectively by the position of the Sun, the 
Moon, Mars etc. 

Abnormality 

(83) If the four quadrants are occupied by 
malefics, union with quadrupeds is to be predicted. 
The same if the four quadrants are aspected by 
malefics. 

(84) if trines or quadrants are occupied by 
malefics, union is likened to that of a cow. The same 
prediction if a malefic or Qulika occupies the 7th 
Bhava. 

(85) Also when the Sun is in the 7th and Mars in 

the 4th. 

And again when Rahu is in the 7th and Mars in 
the 4th. 

(86) If the lord of the 7th is aspected by Venus 
or is In the house of Mars or associated with Venus, 
masturbation is predicted. 

(87) Likewise the abnormality is predicted by 
looking into the lord of the 2nd. Also when the lord 
of the 10th is aspected by Saturn, or is in the house 
of Mars or associated with Venus, masturbation is 
predicted. 

(88) The same is to be stated when the lord of 
Lagna is irr a debilitated sign. Likewise prediction is 
to be made by looking into the lord of the 2nd. 



c 



STREE JATAKA \ (51 



(89) If Mars is in the 7th the wife's bosom will 
be shrunk and lean; If Rahu or Saturn, it will be 
hanging and loose; if the Sun, it will be hard and 
uplifted; and if other planets are in the 7th it will be 
fat and fair. 

(90) If a malefic were to be in the 7th the bosom 
will be ugly. The same is the case if the lord of the 
7th or a malefic were to be in the 9th house. 

(91) Even if the lord of the 7th is a malefic, if 
associated with two benefics, the wife will have equal 
nice breasts. The result will be otherwise if associated 
with malefics. 

(92) Even if the lord of the 7th is together with 
a benefic if the planet is watery and is in a watery 
sign, and aspected by Jupiter the wife will have big 
fat breasts. 

(93) If the Sun or Mars is associated with Saturn 
and Mandi and the lord of the 7th Is in a malefic 
Navamsa, the wife's clitoris will be long, 

(94) It will be moderate size if the lord of the 
7th is either Jupiter or Venus and is In a benefic 
Amsa; If associated with a malefic it will be long. 

(95) If the lord of the 7th is either Saturn, the 
Moon or Mercury It will be short. 

(96-97) If the lord of the 7th or the Karaka Is 
in a watery sign, or if the full Moon Is in the 7th or 
if the 7th is a watery sign and the Moon is there and 
aspected by Venus in a waery sign or Mercury in a 



52^ ( STREE JATAKA ^ 



watery sign and the Moon is there and aspected by 
Venus in a watery sign, or Mercury in a watery sign 
the wife's genitalia will be wet. 

(98) If the full Moon is in the 7th or in a watery 
Amsa and aspected by Jupiter in a watery sign, the 
genitalia will always be wet. 

(99) If Venus is in highest exaltation or in a 
watery sign associated with the Sun the wife's genitalia 
will be wet after union. 

(100) When the lord of the 7th is in a dry sign, 
or if the 7th house is a dry sign and associated with 
a dry planet the wife's genitalia will be dry* 

(101) It will be dry if the lord of the 7th Is in a 
malefic sign, or is between two malefics or aspected 
by a malefic. 

From SAARAAVALI 

What is to be seen in women's horoscopes 

(1) What Varahamihira has stated about woman's 
horoscope being in agreement with her husband's and 
what was specially taken out and stated here are 
being given in detail : 

(2) From the 8th house, about widowhood, from 
the Janma Lagna about her physical body, from the 
7th house her happiness and prosperity, and from the 
5th house about her pregnancy and children, 
predictions are to be made. 

(3) If the Janma Lgna and Chandra (the Moon) 
Lagna are in the dual (even) signs teh girl will have 



c 



ST REE JATAKA 1 ( 53 



a lady-like bearing and behaviour and be wearing 
ornaments and have a good character. If the Janma 
and Chandra Lagnas are either being associated with 
or aspected by beneflcs her character will be excellent. 

(4) If the Janma and Chandra Lagnas are in 
odd signs and are associating with or aspected by 
malefics, the woman will have a manlike size and 
bearing, will be bad in nature, unhappy, sinful and 
lacking in character. 

(5) By looking into the Trimsamsa (l/30th 
division of a sign) of whichever is the stronger of 
Lagna and the Moon, several facts can be known 
from Mars, Venus, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn. 

(6-7) If either birth (lagna) or the Moon were to 
be in the Mars Trimsamsa of the house of Mars the 
woman will be cruel even during her girlhood; in the 
Venus Trimsamsa of the house of Mars, the woman 
will be of bad conduct and character; in the Mercury 
Trimsamsa of the house of Mars the woman will be 
pretentious and helpless; In the Jupiter Trimsamsa of 
the house of Mars the woman will be rich; and in the 
Saturn Trimsamsa she will be a prostitute. 

If Lagna or the Moon were to be in the Mars 
Trimsamsa of Mercury the woman will be a cheat; in 
the Venus Trimsamsa she will be madly passionate 
and in the Mercury Trimsamsa she will be of good 
character. 

(8) In the Jupiter Trimsamsa of Mercury she will 
be a chaste woman, and in the Saturn Trimsamsa a 
eunuch. 



^54^ Q STREE JATAKA J 

Fn the Mars Trimsamsa of Venus, the woman will 
be wicked; in Venus Trimsamsa she will be noted for 
her good character; and in Mercury Trimsamsa she 
will be proficient in fine arts. 

(9) In the Jupiter Trimsamsa of Venus, she will 
be full of good qualities; in Saturn Trimsamsa, she 
will be married again. 

In the Mars Trimsamsa of the Moon, the woman 
will have her own way; in Venus Trimsamsa, she will 
bring ignominy to her family. 

(10) In Mercury Trimsamsa she will be skilled in 
fine arts and handicraft; in Jupiter Trimsamsa she will 
be of noble character; and in Saturn Trimsamsa, she 
will kill her husband. 

In the Mars Trimsamsa of the house of the Sun 
she will behave like a man; in the Venus Trimsamsa 
she will be virtuous. 

(11) In the Mercury Trimsamsa she will be as 
playful and mischievous as a boy; in Jupiter Trimsamsa 
she will be like a queen; in the Saturn Trimsamsa, 
she will be ostracized from the family clan. 

(12) In the Mercury Trimsamsa she will be of a 
scientific bent; in Jupiter Trimsamsa she will be of 
very good character; and in Saturn Trimsamsa, she 
will be attached to other men. 

In the Mars Trimsamsa of the ■ house of Saturn 
she will be a prostitute. 



c 



STREE JATAKA ft [55 



(13) In the Venus Trimsamsa she will be without 
progeny; in Mercury Trimsamsa she will be wicked 
and deceitful; in Jupiter Trimsamsa she will be ever 
virtuous; and in the Saturn Trimsamsa she will be 
serving a low class man. 

Abnormality 

(14) Lesbianism is predicted If Venus and Saturn 
are in each others Navamsa and posited in Venus 
Trimsamsa or if they aspect each other posited in the 
Aquarius Amsa. The woman's passionate nature is 
such as to indulge in abnormal activities. 

Planets in the 7th house 

(15) If the 7th house is empty and weak (i.e. 
unassociated with and unaspected by the lord of the 
7th, Jupiter or Mercury) and unaspected by a benefic 
the woman's husband will be a bad man. 

(16) If the Sun is in the 7th the woman would 
be deserted by the husband; if Mars is In the 7th she 
will be widowed Nsoon after marriage; Saturn aspected 
by a malefic in the 7th causes the woman to look 
old, even when she is in girlhood. 

(17) If the 7th is occupied by malefics and 
aspected by malefics the woman is childless. She 
becomes a widow if evil planets are in the 7th. If 
both benefics and malefics are in the 7th she marries 
again. (Here it is to be interpreted that, even as being 
engaged to one, she marries another.) 

(18) If Venus is in Mars Amsa and Mars in Venus 
Amsa, she will have relations with another man. (It 
can also be Platonic as non-physical love.) 



Q STREE JATAKA ^ 



[f the Sun and the Moon are in the 7th she will 
have relations with another man with the consent of 
her husband. 

(19) If Saturn and Mars are in the 7th and Venus 
and the Moon in Lagna are aspected by a malefic, 
both mother and daughter are prostitues. 

(20) If Mars' Navamsa is the 7th house and 
aspected by the Moon, the woman's genitalia will be 
attacked by disease. 

But if, however, the 7th is a benefic Navamsa, 
she will have beautiful waist and be very loving to her 
husband. 

nature of husband 

(21) If the 7th happens to be the house of Saturn 
or Amsa of Saturn, the husband will be an irritable 
old man; if it is the house of Mars or Amsa of Mars, 
the husband will be a Don Juan and an angry man, 

(22) If the 7th is the house of Venus or the 
Amsa of Venus the husband will be charming, beautiful 
and pleasant. 

If it is that of Mercury in sign or Amsa the husband 
will be intelligent and skilled in handicrafts. 

(23) Jf the 7th is the house of the Moon or Amsa 
of the Moon, the husband will be afflicted by passion 
and be very sensitive to pain or trouble. 

If the 7th is the -Navamsa of Jupiter or Venus, the 
husband will be of good character with control over' 
his senses. 



c 



STREE JATAKA \ (57 



(24) If the 7th is the house of the Sun or the 
Amsa of the Sun the "husband will be active, capable 
of hard work and harsh by nature. 

Hence the character of the husband can be 
determined by looking into the planets in the 7th 
house. 

Woman's character from planetary association 

(25) If Venus and the Moon are In Lagna, the 
woman will be envious by nature but ever looking 
after her own happiness. 

If Mercury and Moon are in Lagna, she will be 
intelligent happy, of good character, blessed with 
children and be refined and cultured. 

(26) If Venus and Mercury are in . Lagna and 
aspected by benefics, she will be beautiful, clever, 
proficient in fine arts, and blessed with wealth, 
garments and happiness. 

If malefics aspect them, the effects will be in 
reverse. 

(27) If malefics are in the 8th the woman will 
become a widow during the Dasa period of the planet 
owning the Navamsa occupied by the lord of the 8th. 

If benefics are in the 2nd house, death of the 
woman is predicted. 

(28) If any one of the signs Virgo, Scorpio, Taurus 
and Leo, happens to be the 'Purtra Sthaana' (i.e. the 
5th house) and the Moon is posited there the woman 
will have few children. If the 5th house is aspected 



( STREE JATAKA "^ 



by or associated with a malefic the same result 
happens. 

(29) If Mercury, Jupiter and Venus are weak and 
Saturn is between them and the other planets are 
strong and if the Lagna is a moveable sign, the woman 
born in this Yoga will behave like a man and become 
notorious. 

(30) With a malefic cruel planet in the 6th and a 
planet in the 9th, the woman is certain to become a 
Sanyaasini (ascetic). She becomes likewise even if a 
malefic is in the 7th. 

(31) If Mercury, Jupiter and Venus are strong and 
are together with the Moon and occupy the Lagna 
which is an even sign, the woman will be a spiritual 
aspirant, proficient in all scriptural and Vedaantic texts. 

(32) The effects told about girls in their birth 
time are also applicable for the marriage, for Frasna 
(inquiry), for choosing of bride; and also for their 
husbands, if applied with discretion. 

(33) If Jupiter and Venus are in the 5th, the 
woman will have several children. Further, she wi]] be 
happy, honoured by her husband, devout, pious and 
of good character. 

Husband's character from planets 

(34) If the 7th is a moveable sign aspected by 
the Moon with Venus the woman's husband will be a 
Don Juan, fickle-minded, born iilegitimate and lacking 
intelligence. 



c 



STREE JATAKA 1 [ 59 



(35) If the 7th Is an even sign, associated with 
or aspected by benefics the husband will be worthy 
of royal respect and be blessed. 

Woman's character 

(36) If Venus and the Moon are in Lagna, the 
woman will be of an angry nature, selifish, interested 
in her own happiness and wearing gold ornaments. If 
Mercury were in Lagna, she will be mindful of her 
own happiness; and the same character is predicted 
if Venus or Jupiter were in the Lagna. 

V 

(37) The woman will be blessed with all kinds of 
happiness, be of good character, and her needs looked 
after by maids, if either the Moon, Venus or Mercury 
be in Lagna. 

(38) If a benefic is in the 2nd house from Lagna, 
the woman will pre-decrease her husband. 

If the Moon were in Taurus, Leo or Cancer, she 
will have few children. 

(39) If a malefic were in the 5th aspected by an 
enemy and is In his own debilitated sign, that woman 
born in this Yoga will be unchaste or have a very 
delicate child. 

(40) If planets are in their own house, exaltation, 
or in trines the woman will be respectable, of good 
character, Intelligent and long-lived. There is no doubt 
about this. 



60 I Q STREE JATAKA ^ 

KINDS OF BARREN WOMEN 

Kaakavandhyaa Yoga 

(1) If Saturn and the Sun are in the 8th place 
from the Lagna or in their own houses, the woman 
born in that Yoga becomes barren. Or if Mercury and 
the Moon are in the above places, she bears only one 
child. 

Mritavandhyaa Yoga 

(2) If Venus and Jupiter are together with Mars 
the woman gives birth to children who die, as she 
has* some uterus trouble. It would be better, therefore, 
for the 8th house to be empty for either prediction 
about birth horoscope or for Frasna'. . 

(3) If Saturn is in Mars' house and Venus and 
the Moon in Lagna and aspected by a malefic, the 
woman will be barren. 

(4) With Mars in the 7th and aspected by Saturn, 
the woman will have frequent abortions. If Saturn is 
in the 7th she will ever be ill and childless. 

(5) She will have only children who die soon 
after birth if either Sun or Rahu Is in the 7th; and if 
the Moon or Mercury is in the 7th she will have only 
daughters. 

(6) If Jupiter is in the 5th or if the lord of the 
5th is Jupiter she will have only one son, according 
to Faraasara. 

(7) If the Moon is in the 5th and if the lord of 
the 5th aspects it, the woman will have only one son. 



( STREE JATAKA J 



(8) In the above Yoga,. Paraasara says that a 
daughter's brith is indicated. 

The subject is divided into female 'Kaakam', male 
'Kaakam' and Vandhyaa Dosham'. 

(9) There are four kinds of barrenness namely 
'Kadalee* or 'Kaaka Vandhyaa', 'Stree Vandhyaa', 'Mrita 
Vandhyaa' and 'Saakshaat Vandhyaa'. 

(10) If the 5th house is that of Mercury (i.e. 
Qemini or Virgo) or the house of Saturn (Capricorn or 
Aquarius) and if Saturn and Gulika are aspecting or 
associating with that house, it is called "Saakshaat 
Vandhyaa*; it means that no child will be born. 

(11) The woman will have Saakshaat Vandhyaa' 
(be completely barren) if many malefics are in the 5th 
or the lord of the 5th is in either debilitated or enemy 
'Shadvarga'. 

(12) Also when the 5th house or the lord of the 
5th or Jupiter is in either debilitated or enemy 
Shadvarga 1 or gets a malefic Shadvarga*. 

(13) The woman suffers from 'Saakshaat 
Vandhyaa' if the 5th place from Jupiter, Lagna or the 
Moon there is a malefic planet or the lord of the 5th 
is together with a malefic. 

(14) If either Capricorn or' Cancer happens to be 
the 5th house with Jupter in it or either the Moon or 
Venus Is there the woman suffers from 'Stree Vandhyaa 
i.e. she will have only sons born to her (no daughter). 



62^ ( 3TREE JATAKA ^ 



(15) The same Is the case if a weak planet is 
associated with Jupiter or the lord of the 5th or if 
either the Moon or Venus is in the 5th together with 
Saturn. 

(16-17) If in the 5th house is Jupiter and the 
lord of the 5th is aspected by a benefic, the woman 
will have only one son (This is called Furusha 
Kaakam'.) 

If Venus and the Moon are in the above-mentioned 
Yoga, and if either the 5th house or the lord of the 
5th is very strong the woman will have only one 
daughter born to her. (This is called Stree Kaakam). 

(18) The woman suffers from Mritavandhyaa 
Dosham', if the Moon Saturn and Mars either aspect 
or associate with either the 5th house or the lord of 
the 5th* If Mars is in the 5th the children will be dead 
soon after birth. 

(19) The reasons for Vandhyaa Dosham' have 
been described in brief: 

If either the 5th or the lord of the 5th have 
respectively the association of the lords of the 6th, 
the 8th, or the 12th and occupation of the 6th, the 
8th, or the 12th and occupation of the 6th, 8th, or 
12th house; on 

(20) Jupiter in debilitation, eclipse or association 
with inimical planet; with these factors the various 
'Doshams* (defects in pregnancy) of teh woman can 
be predicted. 



c 



STREE JATAKA I ( 63 



(21) Only one son will be born if Jupiter is in 
the 5th from Lagna, Saturn in the 5th from Jupiter 
and Rahu in the 5th from saturn (i.e. Rahu in Lagna, 
Jupiter in the 5th and Saturn in the 9th.) 

Characteristics of Vishakanyaa' (i.e. 'misfortune girl) 

(22) If malefics are on either side of Lagna (i.e. 
in the 2nd and the 12th) or Chandra lagna, the girl 
born in this Yoga will destroy the families of both 
father and father-in-law. 

(25) The same is the case when two benefics are 
occupying Lagna which happens to be their enemy 
house, and a cruel planet is also there. 

(24) Pandits affirm that a girl born on second 
'tithi', in the stars Aslesha, Satabhisha, or Krittika and 
on Saturday, Tuesday or Sunday will be a Visha 
kanyaa'. 

(25) The following are reckoned as 'Visha' (poison 
or misfortune) Yogas: 

(a) Dwaadasi tithi (i.e. the 12th day of the 
Moon), Satatbhisha and Sunday; 

(b) Saptami (i.e. the 7th day), Visaakha and 
Tuesday; 

(c) Aslesha, Dwiteeya (the 2nd day) and 
Saturday. 

(25) If Mars is in either the 12th or 8th and a 
cruel planet along with Rahu is in Lagna, the woman 
becomes a widow. 



64 1 ( STREE JATAKA 



c 



If either the Sun, Mars or Saturn is in Lagna, she 
will not be beautiful. 

(26) If Rahu, the Sun or Mars is in Lagna the 
woman becomes a widow, and she is very passionate 
by nature. If the above planets are with Venus, she 
desires to marry another husband. This means that 
she seeks a divorce. 

(27) As defined in Sloka 28, the girl becomes 
'Visha Kanyaa' if two benefics and a malefic are in 
Lagna and if Lagna happens to be enemy's house for 
the benefics. 

(28) Any girl born in the three Yogas mentioned 
in Sloka 29 becomes a 'Visha Kanyaa'. 

(29) If the Lord of the 7th from either Lagna or 
the Moon is the beneficial planet and is occupying 
the 7th the girl born in that Yoga is a Visha Kanyaa*. 

(30) The following combinations are called Visha 
Yogas for the birth of girls: 

Bharani star and Sunday; 
Chitra star and Monday; 
Moola star and Tuesday; 
Dhanishtha star and Wednesday. 
(36) Jyeshtha star and Thursday; 
Foorvaashaadha star and Friday; 
Revati star and Saturday. 

(31) If the male is born in any of these 
combinations, he will destroy his family clan and 
everything. 



c 



STREE JATAKA 1 {65 



But iF however, benefics or Jupiter aspect the 
star the destruction will be averted. 

(32) The father-in-law will be killed by the girl 
born in Moola star. 

The girl born in Aslesha will kill her mother-in- 
law. 

The girl born in Jyeshtha will kill her husband's 
younger brother. 

The girl born in Visaakha will kill her husband's 
younger brother 

(33) The girl born in the fourth Paada of Visaakha 
(which Is in the Scorpio sign) will kill the husband's 
younger brother. But the girl born in the 3 earlier 
Paadas of Visaakha (which is in the Libra sign) will 
bring good luck to the husbands younger brother. 

(34) But there is no problem or danger with 
birthday of a boy in the stars Moola, Aslesha, Visaakha, 
or Jyeshtha. Defects are to be found in the girls born 
in the above constellations. 

Characteristics of Qirls bom in various constellations 
Aswini 

(1) Pleasing to the mind, rich in wealth, beautiful 
eyes, charming speech, happy in all ways. Friendly to 
elders and preceptors and devoted to gods will be 
the girl born In Aswini star. 

Bharani 

She will be among her own companions, wicked 
by nature, quarrelsome, inclined to bad ideas, bereft 



GD C 



STREE JATAKA 



of wealth or honour, and wearing dirty garments and 
ornaments. 

KritUka 

(3) She will be a very angry woman, inclined to 
quarrels, cynical, blaming everything, bereft of relatives, 
suffering from phlegmatic diseases, and very thin in 
body. 

Rohlnl 

(4) She will have a pretty body, clean and pure 
in dress, correct and blameless in everything, obedient 
to husband, devoted to parents, blessed with good 
boys and girls and endowed with riches. 

Mrigasira 

(5) She will be respected by everyone, very 
beautiful, clear in expression, loving ornaments, 
garments, articles and food, blessed with good 
children, attached to Dharma, and associating only 
with clean persons, 

Aardraa 

(6) She will be angry, disputatious, suffering from 
bile and phlegm, pious towards gods, blaming others, 
extravagant, and falsely learned (i.e. plagiaristic writing, 
etc.) 

Punarvasu 

(7) She will be humble without any show inspite 
of her merits, questioning and enquiring by nature, 
devoted to pious things, clear-headed, religious-minded, 
beautiful, and respected by all.. 



(^STREE JATAKA J ^67 

Pushyami 

(8) She will be veiy beautiful in appearance, 
will accomplish great things, be imaginative, blessed 
with good children, engrosed in spiritual matters 
regarding Brahmins and gods, living in luxury, happy 
and friendly to relatives. 

Aslesha 

(9) She will' be plain and unlovely, confused by 
sorrow, lazy without work, speaking very harshly, doing 
even iowly things, prosperous, cheating and ungrateful 

Makha 

(10) She will be sensitive^ very rich, sympathetic 
to enemies, sinless, devoted to preceptor and 
Brahmins, and enjoying royal happiness. 

Pubba 

(11) She will conquor enemies, be beautiful in 
appearance, have good children, legal in outlook, clever 
in material transactions, interested in Sastras, charming 
in speech, grateful and devoted to holy things. 

Uttara 

(12) She will be efficifent in household affairs, 
steady in mind, following lawful principles, attached 
to good things, sorrowless and without any ailment. 

Hasta 

(13) She will be proficient in every work 
undertaken, have, beautiful eyes and ears, patient, 
blameless in character, learned in every way, bright 
and smart, healthy and happy. 



68 1 ( STREE JATAKA 



c 



Chitra 

(14) She will be beautiful and wear 'Strange 
ornaments provided the Chitra star does not belong 
to the 14th day of the waning Moon., If the star leans 
to the waning Moon she will be a 'Visha Kanyaa'. If, 
on the other, hand, the star is on the waxing side of 
the Moon, she will be poor, short and profligate. 

Swati 

(15) She will be mild and sweet, ever amidst her 
children, very rich, honest, have fame and a lot of 
female friends, possess a vehicle, and conquer her 
enemies. 

Visaaka 

(16) She will speak softly and slowly, have lovely 
limbs, possessed of power and riches, interest in 
pilgrimage, vows and charitable activities, and behave 
with love and affection towards her relatives. 

Anuraadha 

(17) She will have many good friends, will have 
no pride, have a nice clean body, be of noble 
character, will dress decently, wear ornaments without 
ostentation, have a beautiful waist and will revere 
priests along with her husband. 

Jyeshtha 

(18) She will be pretty, clever, talk sweetly, be 
ever amidst female friends, will keep much treasure, 
have good children, be friendly to her kith and kin, 
and be honest and frank. 



c 



STREE JATAKA 1 ( 69 



Moola 

(19) She wili be very helpful, foremost among 
her relatives, engaged in honourable activities, peerless 
in truth and courage, broad-eyed, surprisingly beautiful 
in appearance, and always held in high esteem. 

Poorvaashaadha 

(20) She will be very helpful, foremost among her 
relatives, engaged in honourabie activities, peerless in 
truth and courage, broad-eyed, surprisingly beautiful 
in appearance, and always held in high esteem. 

Uttaraashaadha 

(21) She will be imaginative, attain unrivalled 
fame, experienced in woridiy affairs and things, leading 
in every activity, of happy temperament and loved by 
her husband. 

Sravana 

(22) She will be very beautiful, intelligent, 
interested in scriptures, have great popularity, engaged 
in philanthropic activities, will speak truthfuily, and be 
of charitable temperament. 

Dhanishtha 

(25) She will ever be sitting and watching, and 
be interested in stories and novels, will wear attractive 
clothes, possess vehicles, be generous in gifts, and of 
good character and behaviour. 

Satabhisa 

(24) Sh6 will be modest, agreeable to women, 
honoured by her relatives, devoted to elders and 



70 1 f STREE JATAKA 



c 



godly worship and ever appreciative of all enthusiastic 
activities. 

Poorvabhadra 

(25) She will be born of high and noble family, 
devoted to her children with love and care for them, 
generous in gifts, interested welcoming Sadhus and 
elders, learned, wealthy and leading in in every field 
of activity. 

Uttarabhadra 

(26) She will behave pleasingly to elders, be full 
of sympathy for the weak, patient, respectful to the 
teacher, without pride, discriminative, concentrated in 
the work on hand, and blessed with happiness and 
prosperity. 

Revati 

(27) She will be worthy of respect, very friendly, 
naturally pure and good, fulfilling vows and performing 
rituals, possessed of divine power, having many 
quadrupeds and blessed with pleasing beneficent eyes. 

Effects of the Moon being in various signs 

(1) The woman born with the Moon in Aries will 
be mature, attentive to her work, leading in every 
sphere of activity, physically beautiful; loved by her 
husband and respectful to elders. 

(2) If the Moon is in Taurus, the woman will be 
of good conduct, proficient in Aagamas and other 
Saastras leading to discrimination, interested in 



c 



STREE JATAKA \ ( 71 



pilgrimage, blessed with children and grand children, 
not extravagant but prudent in expenditure and loved 
by her husband. 

(3) Gemini, occupied by the Hoon, makes the 
woman of good character, of beautiful body with 
pleasing eyes, possessing wealth, commanding respect, 
intelligent, clever and interested in helping others* 

(4) But if the Moon is in Cancer, the woman is 
ill ; she is however, respected by her kith and kin, 
has self-respect, overcomes those inimical to her, and 
is reVerent towards Brahmins and gods. 

(5) With the Moon in Leo, the woman will be 
cruel by nature but important among her people, be 
Interested in eating flesh, possess garments and 
ornaments, be bold and forward in her behaviour, 
and have a nice figure. 

(6) The woman born with the Moon in Virgo will 
possess riches and quadrupeds, be obedient to her 
husband, be patient, and ever interested in her own 
welfare. 

(7) Ever engaged in fulfilment of vows will be 
the woman born with the Moon in Libra; she will 
have beneficent relatives and nice children, and be 
imaginative and without pride, extravagance and lust. 

(8) If the Moon is in Scropio, the woman will 
be doing many wrong actions on the sly; but she will 
have a steady nature, be much respected for her 
behaviour, pleasing to elders and follow definite ascetic 



72 1 ( STREE JATAKA 



c 



practices. She will have long hair and be without 
pride or arrogance. 

(9) The Woman will follow several Vratas' 
(austere practices) if she is born with the Moon in 
Sagittarius. She will be philanthropic, musically inclined, 
loving all, helpful, welcoming every event with 
equanimity, and respectful to elders. 

(10) The woman born with Capricorn as the seat 
of the Moon will have ugly teeth and be of a harsh 
nature* But she will be imaginative, very scholarly, 
truthful, modest, lawful, and able to put down her 
enemies. 

(11) She will have a moon-like face, if the Moon 
is in Aquarius; she will be generous, rich, following 
only the good and extraordinarily affectionate. 

(12) The woman will have many children if the 
Moon is in Pisces. She will be generous in gifts, of 
good character with control over her senses, proficient 
In all arts, shameful, ever respectful and imaginative. 
(This prediction is found true by experience). 

Effects of Lagna in various signs 

(1) Aries 

The woman born in the Lagna of Aries will be 
truthful, but harsh by nature and angry. She will be 
phlegmatic, speaking pungently and interested only in 
her relatives. 

(2) Taurus 

She will be honest, imaginative, humble, helpful 
to her husband; proficient irt all arts, friendly to kith 
and kin and giving regrd to the word of her husband. 



Q STREE JATAKA J ^73 

(3) Qemini 

She will be cruel in word, passionate in desire, 
bereft of good qualities, ever harsh in nature, full of 
phlegm and wind, extravagant in expenditure and brutal 
in behaviour. 

(4) Cancer 

She will be beautiful, lawful, rich, friendly to 
relatives, excellant in behaviour, bright and smart and 
happy. 

(5) Leo 

She will be very cute and sharp, phlegmatic, 
quarrelsome, with body rendered inelegant by 
excessive use of cosmetics, but always phllanthropically 
minded. 

(6) Virgo 

She will be blessed with all happiness and 
prosperity, be pleasing to all, very much attached to 
philanthropic deeds, self-controlled, and well-versed in 

all arts. 

(7) Libra 

She will be slow in action, dull by nature, proud, 
loveless but patient. She will be unlawful and 
passionate. 

(8) Scorpio 

She will have a pretty body and lovely eyes, be 
of very good character, chaste, and always truthful. 



Ct4\ Q stree jataka ^ 

(9) Saggittarius 

She will be very intelligent behave like a man,can 
be controlled only by good words, self-disciplined, 
friendless and loveless. 

(10) Capricorn 

She will be benevolent, very honest, interested in 
piligrimages, destructive of inimical factors, 
concentrated on work, very famous, of good character 
and blessed with children, 

(11) Aquarius 

She will have many daughters, suffer from some 
blood disease', ever be clean-dressed, extravagant in 
expenses, devoted to spiritual practices but ungrateful. 

(12) Pisces 

She will have many children and grandchildren, 
be loving towards husband, respected by kith and 
kin, with beautiful hair and eyes, devoted to preceptor 
Brahmins and gods, and very duty-conscious. 

RAJA YOGA 

(1) A woman born with Jupiter in Lagna, the 
Moon in the 7th or own Varga' and Venus in the 1 Oth 
will become a queen even if she is born in a 
'Chandaala' (despicable) house. 

(2) if a benefic is in a quadrant (1st, 4th, 7th 
or 10th house) and. a malefic in Lagna and the 7th 
house is a male sign, the woman will be a queen with 
a lot of wealth and ever be happy and prosperous. 



^ STREE JATAKA J ^75 

(3) if Jupiter alone in Shadvarga' without blemish 
is in a quadrant and aspected by the Moon, the 
woman will be a queen with wealth, famous in the 
land, and can afford to make gifts of elephants. 

(4) If the Moon is in the 10th and Venus with 
Mercury is in the 7th and aspected by Jupiter, the 
woman becomes a queen respected by all. 

(5) With Mercury in Lagna which happens to be 
his exalted house, and Jupiter in the 1 1th, the woman 
becomes a world-famous queen. (This can happen 
only in the case of Virgo as Lagna.) 

(6) The woman becomes loved by the king and 
owns many horses, if Mercury is in the 3rd, Jupiter is 
in the 'Shadvarga' of the 4th, and Venus is in Lagna. 

(7) If the 7th is one of the signs rising by the 
head (Seershodaya Rasi) and the Moon is occupying 
it, and the 4th is without a malefic, the woman will 
be a queen with many horses and elephants. The 
king will be the uppermost in her mind. She will be 
able to help defeat the enemies. 

(8) When three planets are in pure Shadvarga', 
the woman will be queen; and when four planets are 
in pure 'Shadvarga* she has a divine plane being the 
queen of lord of three worlds. 

(9) If the full Moon is in the 4th which happens 
to be its exalted house, and if Jupiter aspects it, the 
woman will be demigoddess (Vidyaadharee), chief 
queen, and conqueror of enemies and have several 
children and grandchildren. 



76 1 ( STREE JATAKA 



c 



(JO) When Mercury is in its own house and Jupiter 
being pure in 'Shadvarga' is in the 4th house aspected 
by Venus, the woman will be a great queen.t 

(11) If Mars is in the 3rd or the 6th house and 

Saturn pure in 'Shadvarga' in the 11th and if Jupiter 

is in Lagna which is a fixed sign, the woman will be 
most loved by her husband. 

(J 2) With the Sun in its own exalted house, if it 
happens to be the 11th house, and the full Moon is 
in Lagna, and Mercury is In the 10th the woman will 
be a queen, obedient to her lord, and blessed with 
children and grandchildren. 

(13) The Sun, pure in Shadvarga' being in the 
3rd and Saturn in the 6th make the woman the chief 
queen, obedient to her lord, and blessed with children 
and grandchildren. 

(14) If the Lagna is a fixed sign and Mercury 
being pure in 'Shadvarga' is either associated with it 
or aspects it and if any of the planets is in exaltation, 
the woman will be a queen followed by a squadron 
of elephants. 

(15) The woman will be the queen of an empire, 
if Mercury is in Lagna and in exaltation, Jupiter is in 
the 1 Jth, Venus in the 2nd and the Moon in the 10th. 

Effects of the Sun in various signs 

(1) If the Sun is in Lagna the woman will be of 
a cruel nature, afflicted by illness, lean, wicked, 
ungrateful, lustreless, and greedy for others' food. 

t Refer my book BRIHAT JATAKA CHAPTER H - • 



c 



STREE JATAKA 1 ( 77 



(2) The Sun in the 2nd house makes the woman 
poor, harsh in language, helpless, quarrelsome, 
venomous, friendless and of a bad character, 

(3) The woman will always be happy in pleasure 
although her body is full of diseases, when the Sun 
is in the 3rd house. She will have a pretty face, wide 
eyes and wide breasts. 

(4) Bereft of happiness, always in aliment, 
deformed teeth, poor and hated by people will be the 
woman with the Sun in the 4th house. 

(5) If the Sun is in the 5th house, the woman 
will have few children. She will be chief among the 
family, devoted to performance of austere duties, have 
a fat face and broad teeth, be reverent towards 
parents, will speak lovingly, and will be acceptable to 
Brahmins and elders. 

(6) The woman will be beautiful with a comely 
face, be efficient, capable of destroying opponents, 
clever among women, of quiet behaviour, and 
interested in religious and philanthropic activites if 
the Sun is in the 6th house. 

(7) With the Sun in the 7th the woman will be 
left by the husband, bereft of all happiness, ever in 
an angry mood, loveless, phlegmatic, ugly and indulging 
in sinful deeds. 

(8) Sorrowful, indulging in all kinds of sinful 
activities, surrounded by poverty-stricken relatives, and 
afflicted by blood diseases will be the woman, if the 
Sun is in the 8th house. 



78 1 ( STREE JATAKA 



c 



(9) The woman will be obstinate by nature, 
luckless, very sensitive, poor and of bad character if 
the Sun is in the 9th house, 

(10} The Sun in the 10th makes the woman 
interested always in bad activities, poverty-stricken, of 
black complexion, and spoiling even a good son. 

(11) The woman would be blessed with fortune, 
many children, proficiency in all arts, be honoured by 
kith and kin, and proud if the Sun is in the nth 
house. 

(12) If the Sun is in the 12th the woman will 
spend money in evil activities, extravagant in expenses, 
inclined towards sinful deeds, cruel, and lacking in 
humility and purity. 

The Noon in various signs 

{]) If the waxing Moon is in Lagna, the woman 
will have a beautiful body; but if it is the waning 
Moon she will be lean, and will suffer from illness, be 
quarrelsome and be wearing dirty garments. 

(2) The woman will be very charitable-minded, 
humble, chief in every activity, efficient in discharging 
the husband's desire, very lawful, and acceptable to 
Brahmins and elders if the Moon is in the 2nd house. 

(3) If the Moon is in the 3rd house, the woman 
will be subject to phlegmatic and rheumatic diseases, 
be very harsh in her language, be associated with bad 
persons, fearless and wicked by nature, miserly and 
ungrateful. 



( STREE JATAKA J ("79 

Note : The above prediction will be in reverse, if 
Jupiter is either associated with or aspects the Moon. 

(4) The woman would be very happy, have novel 
ornaments, be of a steady nature, interested in ail 
kinds of activities and quite comfortable, and be very 
devoted to preceptor and duties, if the Moon were to 
be in the 4th house. 

(5) The Moon in the 5th house confers good 
children to the woman, who is full of honour and 
good character, very active, humble, loving and 
subservient to the husband, beautiful in appearance, 
honest and happy, 

(6) The woman will be having little money, be 
fickle-minded, full of animosity, body full of sores, 
afflicted by diseases,, weary and exhausted and lacking 
in humility, ; if the Moon is in the 6th house. 

(7) Loving towards the husband, efficient, pious 
and devout, soft-spoken, wealthy, pure and radiant is 
the woman when the Moon is in the 7th house. 

(8) If the Moon is in the 8th house the woman 
will be cruel-minded, and physically ugly with bad 
eyes, deformed breasts and genitalia, bereft of 
ornaments and garments, and with reviling tongue. 

(9) The Moon in the 9th house makes the 
woman greatly generous and charitable-minded, have 
beautiful waist, be full of enjoyment and delight, 
imaginative, interested in pious scriptures and blessed 
with happiness, children and servants. 



( STREE JATAKA J 



(10) The Moon In the J Oth gives the woman 
riches and gold, makes her famous and important 
among the family clan, generous, inclined towards 
spiritual activities, and very honest. 

(11) If the Moon is in the 11th the woman will 
maike many donations, be blessed, self-controlled, will 
understand the ways of fate, be clear-headed, loving 
and generous, and free from any ailment. 

(12) Very extravagant and expending, energetic 
and bold, unlawful, angry and impatient nature, and 
melancholy face are the characteristics of the woman 
with the Moon in the 12th house. 

Mars in the 12 signs 

(1) Mars in Lagna makes the woman tense with 
high blood pressure, poor, hated by husband, luckless 
and intimate with all persons* 

(2) Mars in the 2nd house also makes her 
cheerless, poor, passionate, with a bad husband, 
subject to glamour and delusion, often ill and with 
little hair. 

(3) The woman will be very patient, benevolent, 
loving towards Jtith and kin, devoted to Saadhus, 
popular among her company, free from disease and 
praiseworthy, if Mars is in the 3rd hquse. 

(4) If mars is in the 4th house, the woman will 
be unhappy with bad house, widowed, and indulging 
in bad activities. But she will have a liberal mind, be 
sensitive and loving towards the general public. 



c 



STREE JATAKA 1 (81 



(5) The woman will have bad children, be 
shameless, loved by bad characters, indulging in sinful 
activities, without relatives and be even childless, if 
Mars is in the 5th house. 

(6) On the other hand. Mars in the 6th makes 
the woman happy with a loving husband, interested 
in good people destructive of Inimical persons, very 
scholarly, with long good hair, and free from disease. 

(7) The woman will lose her husband in very 
early years, be wicked by nature, poor with deformed 
features and bereft of good qualities, if Mars is in the 
7th. 

{8) The woman with Mars in the 8th will be 
suffering frorti diseases, very lean, unprotected, afflicted 
by poverty sorrow sores and dejection, lustreless and 
full of harm. 

(9) Unhappy, diseased, luckless, ostracized 
without Dharma, interested only in drinking and flesh- 
eating will be the woman with Mars in the 9th* 

(10) Equally bad is the woman with Mars in the 
10th as she will be an adept in evil activities, with 
evil intentions, reckless and indulging in unlawful 
deeds, shameless and without any after-thought. 

(11) But the woman with Mars in the 11th will 
be full of gain, of good character, with no harm or 
injury to others, hospitable and devoted to husband 
and wifely duties. 



82^ Q STREE JATAKA ^ 



(12) If Mars is in the 1 2th the woman will be 
evil, without character, addicted to drinking, weak, 
passionate, spending on evil things and activities, and 
cruel by nature. 

Mercury in the 12 signs 

(1) If Mercury is in Lagna, the woman will be 
having a good figure, be devoted to husband, have 
wide eyes, be lawful and charitable, enjoy good food, 
and be full of love and truth. 

(2) With Mercury in the 2nd house the woman 
will be full of riches, pure, pretty, devoted of worship 
of Brahmins and elders, will perform sacrifices, 
conservative in outlook, and blessed with luck and 
happiness. 

(3) If Mercury is in the 3rd the woman will (as 
in the previous one) be full of riches, devoted to 
worship of Brahmins and gods, honoured and rewarded 
by her children, helpful to the public and of noble 
character. 

(4) Mercury in the 4th also blesses the woman 
with happiness, good people and good servants, 
devoted to worship of gods and Brahmins, be of 
noble respected family and dedicated to Dharmic 
activities. 

(5) With few children, little riches, wandering 
aimlessly, wrangling, indulging In hateful activities, and 
purposeless is the woman born with Mercury in the 
5th house. 



( STREE JATAKA ^ (^83^ 

(6) But the woman with Mercury in the 6th will 
be merciful and ever interested in the welfare of 
others. She will destroy her opponents with strong 
cruel hands, be of passionate nature and short-lived. 

(7) Famous, proficient, devoted to Saastras, 
strickler to self-discipline, endowed with beneficial 
riches, engaged in benevolent activities and lovable is 
the woman with Mercury in the 7th house. 

(8) But Mercury in the 8th makes the woman 
cruel, wicked and loveless, hated by the public, 
unlawful, wallowing in self-pity and fearful. 

(9) On the other hand Mercury in the 9th makes 
her humble, modest, charitable, very fortunate, seeking 
fame and glory, patient honest and very efficient. 

(10) The woman with Mercuiy in the 10th is 
equally charitable, devoted to husband, possessing 
long hair, very lawful, humble and blessed with gold 
and riches. 

(11) Mercury in the 11th makes the woman very 
intelligent, clear-headed, very lovable, harmonious, 
chaste, agreeable to the public, and full of gains. 

(12) But Mercury in the 12th m^kes her 
shameless, poor, quarrelsome, defective, weak, 
characterless, and ostracized by the public. 

Jupiter in the 12 signs 

(1) If Jupiter is in Lagna, the woman will be 
very truthful' have nice enjoyment and grand luck, be 
very friendly to Saadhus, have a slender beautiful 
body and be excellent among womankind. 



64 1 ( STREE JATAKA 



c 



(2) With Jupiter in the 2nd house, the woman 
will be very rich, benevolent, imaginative, philanthropic/ 
lawful, bereft of desires, blemishless and chief among 
women* 

(3) if Jupiter is in the 3rd house, the woman 
will have a bad reputation, full of blemishes, ignoble, 
narrow-minded, and with defective limbs. 

{A) On the other hand, the 4th house Jupiter 
makes . the woman full of happiness, enjoying good 
food and drink, with many ornaments and servants, 
famous, respected with noble and honourable 
character. 

(5) The woman with Jupiter in the 5th house 
will have good children, always helpful, be a protector 
of conservative traditions like austerities, worship etc., 
be free from sin, mindful of truth, and bold and 
secure in assemblies. 

(6) Lawful, kind to enemies with shaking limbs, 
meeting pitfalls and danger in life, doing only important 
duties, and hypocritical will be the woman with Jupiter 
in the 6th. 

(7) If Jupiter is in the 7th the woman will have 
noble intentions, be fortunate, sympathetic to the 
learned, kind to enemies, loving the husband and 
becoming famous* 

(8) Liberal, fairly honest, divorced from husband, 
with long and thin limbs, with deep sorrow, ill. but 
radiant will be the woman with Jupiter in the 8th. 



Q STREE JATAKA "^ 



(9) If Jupiter is in tfre 9th the woman will be 
interested in spiritual matters, absorbed in such 
activities as digging wells, be devoted and pious, 
beautiful and esteemed, and respectful to Brahmins. 

(10) Jupiter in the 10th makes the woman highly 
fortunate, of good character, interested in noble 
activities, proficient in every activitity, and enjoying 
the service of many servants. 

(11) Self-controlled, fortunate, highly esteemed, 
inclined to handwork and crafts, honest and devoted 
will be the woman with Jupiter in the 11th house. 

(12) The woman will spend much in good 
activities, but suffer from diseases and have defective 
limbs, be wicked by nature, protector of , others 
Dharma and without her own family Dharma if Jupiter 
is in the 12th. 

Venus in the 12 signs 

(1) With Venus in Lagna, the woman will be 
very beautiful, blessed with riches, intelligence, and 
attractive limbs, will be destructive of enemy's side, 
and be constantly good in conduct. 

(2) Venus in the 2nd house also makes the 
woman wealthy, cute and bright in behaviour, will 
hold aloft the banner of Dharma, always inclined 
towards spiritual activity, soft-spoken, doing excellent 
work, of very good character but self-willed. 

(3) The woman will be poor, left by husband, 
venomous In tongue, will belong to the runaway type. 



Q STREE JATAKA J 



but be without sorrow or grief, and talk in a stuttering 
manner, with Venus in the 3rd. 

(4) Very happy and rich, playful in spirit yet 
devoted to spiritual affairs, with control over the 
senses, the woman will be an ornament to the family 
if Venus is in the 4th. 

(5) Venus in the 5th makes the woman fully 
satisfied in everything, have many daughter, have no 
association with bad persons, and chief among her 
own family clan. 

(6) Venus in the 6th makes the woman envious 
of others, angry, of impetuous temperamant or 
neglected by husband and children. 

(7) On the other hand Venus in the 7th makes 
her affluent, loving and loved by husband, interested 
in scriptural studies, proficient in everything, kind to 
Brahmins and pleasing to all people. 

(8) Arrogant and proud, poor and sorrowful, 
merciless and luckless, cheated by others, wearing 
old clothes, and without Dharma is the woman if 
Venus is in the 8th. 

(9) If Venus is in the 9th woman on the other 
hand will be a follower of Dharma, important among 
the public, blessed with all kinds of possessions, 
house, garments, good food etc, obedient to her 
husband but possessed of a wild mind. 

(10) Venus in the 10th makes the woman full of 
esteem and regard, rich and affluent, with beautiful 
limbs, alert and intelligent, hottest and devout in vow's 
and austerities. 



( STREE JATAKA J ^87 

(11) Full of gain, blameless, being absorbed. in 
scriptures, and attached to several interests will be 
the woman with Venus in the Ilth. 

(12) If Venus is in the 1 2th the woman will be 
sad at heavy expenses although incurred in good 
causes, will have beautiful symmetrical limbs, but full 
of deceit, lying and delusion, unintelligent and suffering 
from ailments. 

Saturn in the 12 signs 

(1) If Saturn is in Lagna the woman will have a 
disfigured body with limbs and strong bones and 
teeth, blind and very tired. 

(2) In the 2nd house Saturn makes her poor, 
neglected, dishonoured, loveless, unlawful and with 
evil thoughts. 

(3) With Saturn in the 3rd house, the woman is 
astute, lucky, chief among women, efficient in social 
work, praised by good people and blessed with 

children. 

(4) Poor, unhappy, unitelligent, ungrateful, fickle- 
minded and associated with low-minded people will 
be the woman, if Saturn is in the 4th house. 

(5) Saturn in the 5th also makes the woman 
proud, merciless, childless, with behaviour of a 
prostitute and without any good association. 

(6) The woman will be a leader among women, 
blessed with children, clothes and ornaments, of good 
character, rather slow and dull by nature but very 
16ving towards children if Saturn is in the 6th house. 



Q STREE JATAKA "^ 



(7) Left by husband and later widowed diseased 
and drunk, with bad friends, full of blemishes and 
cheating is the woman born with Saturn in the 7th. 

(8) Equally bad is the woman with Saturn in* the 
8th as she is vicious, suffering due to previous bad 
Karma deprived of truth and Dharma, cheating and 
thieving by nature. 

(9) Ever intent on bad actions, miserly towards 
others, but extravagant in her own expenses, ignorant 
and arrogant is the woman with Saturn in the 9th 
house. 

(10) The 10th house Saturn will make the woman 
conform to the ways of other women but she will be 
poor, cruel, intent on evil actions, and suffering due 
to interest in sorcery and other such practices. 

(11) But the 1 1th Saturn .brings her luck, wealth, 
many gains, children, fearlessness and enjoyment of 
varied kinds of food and drink. 

(12) The woman will be phlegmatic and suffer 
from blood pressure and rheumatism, be erratic in 
her ways and with no discrimination, neglected and 
sunk in sorrow. If Saturn is in the 12th. 

(13) These Slokas, describe the characteristics of 
women. Excepting the cases of Raja Yoga outlined 
earlier, the other predictions generally follow what 
have been given for men already. 

General 

(1) If Venus, the Moon, Jupiter and Mercury are 
in the 7th house,or if the houses of Venus, Moon, 



[ STREE JATAKA ^ 



Jupiter and Mercury or the "Shadvargas" happen to 
be the 7th house or if the 7th house is aspected by 
any of the above planets, the girl born in that Yoga 
will have the characterictics of the planet concerned. 

(2) Likewise if malefic plants are in the 7th 
house from either Lagna or the Moon, or their 
association or aspects as mentioned in the above 
Sloka cause the death of the spouse. If either the 
Moon or Saturn were to be in the 7th house, the girl 
will be marrying a second time. {Here it is to be 
taken as a girl being betrothed to one marrying 
another.) 

number of Wives 

(3-4) The number of wives one will have is 
according to the number of the Amsa in which is 
posited the lord of the 7th Bhava. If the Sun is in the 
7th house alone, or in the Amsa of Mars or of Mercury 
and Jupiter, or aspected by them; or even if Venus is. 
in a similar position as the Sun, mentioned above 
the person wiil have several wives. If Jupiter or Venus 
is in a similar position the wife will be of the same 
status; if the Moon, Mars or Saturn were in that 
position, the wife would be of a lesser status. In the 
case of Venus alone, the woman will be likened to a 
prdsitute, and in the case of the Moon too she will be 
like a prostitute* 

Death of wife 

(5) If Mars is in the 7th the person will lose his 
wife. If It is aspected by Saturn and not by any other 
planet, the wife is sure to die. 



Q STREE JATAKA J 



(6) If Mars and Venus are in the 7th the native 
will lose his wife. If Mars and Venus are in the 5th 
and the 9th houses the same result is predicted. Loss 
of wife is also the result if the Sun and the Moon are 
in the 1st, the 12th or the 6th house. 

(7) If Saturn is in Lagna and the neck sign 
(Rasi) is in the 7th house, the woman will have a one- 
eyed husband. 

(8) If Saturn is in the 5th the person will marry 
a barren woman. If malefics are in the 7th he would 
not only be defective of eye, but have lost his wife 
and be a hated man. 

(9) With Scorpio as the 7th and Venus posited 
thee the person loses his wife. If Taurus were to be 
the 7th and Mercury is pointed there, he loses his 
first wife. 

(10) With Capricorn as the 7th and a weak Jupiter 
posited there, the loss of wife is to be predicted. If 
the lord of the 8th is in the 7th not only does he lose 
his wife but he will also be unhappy, yet a good man. 

(11) If Cancer is the 7th house and either Saturn 
or Mars is posited there, the girl born will be very 
beautiful. The same is the case if Virgo is the 7th 
Jupiter is there and a malefic in the 4th house. 

(12) Loss of wife is indicated if a weak Moon is 
in the 7th if either Sun or Saturn is in the 7th the 
person will be childless or lose his wife. 

(13) If Rahu and Sun are inf the 7th the person 
will lose all his wealth in sexual union. If Pisces is the 



( STREE JATAKA J 



7th and Saturn is posited there, the person will 
definitely lose his wife. 

(14) if the Lord of the 7th is in the 1 2th and if 
the lords of Lagna and the lord of the house occupied 
by the Moon are in the 7th, the person born in this 
Yoga will destroy his family clan and be childless and 
wifeless. 

(15) If Mercury is in the- 7th together with a 
debilitated, inimical planet, the person's wife will either 
be a prostitute or lead an immoral life. 

> (16) With the lord of the 7th in highest exaltation 
and the 7th house aspected by b^nefics or Venus is 
in highest exaltation (or even if Venus is in a quadrant 
— says another reading), wise men say that the person 
will have many wives. 

(17) If a weak malefic is in the 7th and aspected 
by a benefic the woman will either be left by her 
husband, or she will have illicit relations with another 
man or be a prostitute. 

(18) With Saturn or Mars in the 7th and if the 
lord of the 7th is in the house of Saturn the person's 
wife will either be a prostitute or a profligate. 

(19) The person will have only one wife if the 
lord of the 7th Is in his exalted house, a benefic in 
the 7th, and Venus in a quadrant to Lagna. 

(20) If Venus is in a moveable sign, Jupiter in 
the 7th and the lord of Lagna is strong, the person 
will get a good ideal wife. 



(^92^ ( STREE JATAKA ^ 

(21) There will be no conjugal happiness if the 
Moon is in the 7th, the lord of the 7th in the 8th and 
the Karaka (Venus) is weak. 

(22) Death of wife is predicted when the lord of 
the 7th is in an inimical house, or debilitated or 
eclipsed, or aspected by a malefic or the 7th house 
is either associated with or aspected by a malefic. 

(23) The same prediction is made when the lord 
of the 6th, 8th, or the 12th is in the 7th and if the 
7th house is weak and Venus is in a debilitated sign. 

Many wives 

(24) If the lord of the 7th is in a debilitated sign 
or in a moving riavamsa and if a malefic is associated 
with or aspects the lord of the 7th and if a neutral 
planet (Mercury or Saturn) is in the 7th house or in 
a rising Navamsa the person will have two wives. 

(25) With Mars in the 7th and the Moon- in the 
7 th house from Venus and the lord of Lagna in the 
8th the person will have three wives. 

(26) With the lord of the 7th in the second house 
from Lagna and associated with a cruel planet and 
the lord of the Lagna is in a debilitated sign, eclipsed 
or in an enemy's house, the person will have three 
wives. 

(27) The same prediction is made if many 
malefics are in" the 2nd and the 7th houses, and 
Venus is associated with a malefic. 



Q STREE JATAKA J 



(28) If Venus is a common sign and the lord of 
the house occupied by Venus is In exaltation and the 
lord of the 7th is strong the person will have many 
wives. 

Date of death of wife 

(29) If the lord of the 7th is in debilitated sign, 
and Venus is in the 8th or the 6th the person will 
lose his wife in the 18th or the 32nd year. 

(30) If the lord of the 7th is in the 8th and the 
lord of the 8th in the 7th the person will lose his wife 
in the 22nd year. 

(31) With Rahu In the 2nd and Mars in teh 7th 
the person wiii iose his wife either on the 3rd day of 
marriage or within a year of marriage. 

(32) The wife will die either in his 12th or the 
21st year if Venus is in the 8th and the lord of the 
8th is in the 7th. 

(33) The wife wiii die in his 40th year if the iord 
of Lagna is in a debilitated sign and the iord of the 
7th in the 8th house. 

(34-35)If the Moon is in the 7th to Venus and 
Mercury Is in the 7th to the Moon and the lord of the 
8th in the 5th house, the person will lose his first 
wife in his 10th yean and lose his second wife in his 
22nd year and third wife in the 33rd year. 

(36) Death of wife is certain if the lord of the 
8th is in the 7th if the iord of the 5th is in the 7th 
or if Mars is in the 7th. 



94 I ( STREE JATAKA 



c 



Two wives 

(37) If the Karaka of spouse (Venus) is associated 
with a malefic or if Venus is in debilitated sign or 
Amsa and aspected by a malefic, marriage with two 
women is predicted. 

(38) If the lord of the 2nd or the 7th is in their 
own house, the person will have only one wife. But 
if they are debilitated, eclipsed or in enemy's house, 
he will have two wives. 

(39) IF the lord of the Amsa in which is posited 
the lord of the Amsa occupied by the lord of the 7th 
is a male planet, the person will have several wives. 
But if it were a female planet he will have only one 
wife. 

(40) But if it were a neutral planet he will at 
least have four of five wives. If the lords of the 1 1th 
and the 7th are associated together or aspect each 
other, or are strong or are in quadrants, the person 
will have many wives. 

(41) If the lord of the Havamsa associated with 
the lord of liavamsa occupied by the lord of the 7th 
is together with a benefic and is in Paaraavata' Amsa 
and is strong, the person born in that Yoga will have 
hundred wives. 

(42) If Venus is in the Mars Amsa or in the 
house of Mars and is associated with or aspected by 
Mars, the person will have relations with other women. 



Q STREE JATAKA J 



(43) If the Moon, Mars and Saturn are in the 
same sign, the person would be a profligate; so also 
would be his wife. 

RUNA-RUNEE BHAVA 

(1) The Lagna of the spouse is determined by 
finding 

(a) the house occupied by the lord of the 7th or 

(b) the exalted house of the lord of the 7th, or 

(c) his debilitated house, or 

(d) the sign of the Navamsa of the 7th lord. 

(2) The sign (Rasi) or navamsa occupied by 
either the lord of Lagna or the lord of the 7th will be 
the Lagna of the spouse. The husbands Lagna is 
determined likewise from the girl's horoscope. 

(3) The spouses Lagna can also be fixed by 
either the lord of the house from the natives Lagna 
or the house occupied by the Moon (Chandra Lagna) 
or by the lord of the house aspecting it. Likewise is 
the Lagna of the husband fixed from the woman's 
horoscope. 

(4) The spouses Lagna is either the 7th house 
from Venus or the house in which he is strong, or the 
trine of the Dwadasamsa Rasi in which the Moon is 
posited. 

(5) In the girl's birthtime if there were many 
dots in the Moons Ashtavarga, and if the boy's 
horoscope indicates his Lagna in that. Rasi it will be 
beneficial. Similarly if the girl's Lagna is in the sign 



GD C 



STREE JATAKA 



when the Moon's Ashtavarga has many dots in the 
boy's horoscope it will be beneficial. 
(6-7) not translatable. 

(8) If the Moon were in an excellent sign in 
each other's horoscope (i.e if the boys horoscope 
indicates the Moons place as being auspicious in 
term of the girl's horoscope and vice versa) the couple 
will have a happy married life with several children. 

(9) If the Moon (as stated above) were to be in 
inauspicious signs in each others horoscope (i.e in 
the 6,8/ 12,3rd and the 11th houses) the couple will 
be unhappy and have no children. 

Direction from which the spouse comes 

(10) The spouse will be obtained from the 
direction of the sign where Venus is posited or from 
the direction of the 7th house from Venus, or from 
the direction of the sign occupied by the lord of the 
7th. 

(11) The spoqse will come from the direction of 
the sign or Amsa occupied by the lord of the 7th or 
from the direction of the house of the planet occupying 
the 7th. 

(12) The direction from which the wife comes or 
the husband comes to the native is indicated by the 
planet occupying the 7th place, either from the Lagna 
or the Moon, or the planet aspecting the 7th or from 
the lord of the 7th. 

(13) Make the Ashtavarga of Venus and the Parals' 
(dots) (Bindus) of the signs in east and south before 
investigation the lordship of trines. 



C STREE JATAKA J ^97 

(14) From the Farals' (dots) or Bindus of the 
signs in all the four directions, the direction of the 
spouse is indicated by the larger number of dots in 
a particular sign. If associated with a benefic, the 
marriage will be happy. 

(15-16) The direction of the lords of the 6th, 8th 
or the 12th and association with malafics are stated 
to be inauspicious directions. As in verse 14 the 
direction of the spouse coming can be found. Wise 
men can detemine the direction by the sign occupied 
by the lord of the 7th. 

(17) Or it can be inferred from the sign occupied 
by Venus. If it is a moveable sign, the spouse is 
coming from a long distance; if a common sign, he 
wilJ come from a middle distance; and if a fixed sign, 
he is near to the place where the girl is living. 

From PHALADEEPIKA 

(1) If the 5th and the 7th houses from either 
Lagna or the Moon are either occupied by or aspected 
by benefics the person will be happy with his wife 
and children. 

If it is otherwise, i.e. in case of association with 
or aspecting by the lords of the 6th, 8th or the 12th 
the person will be happy in his wife and children. 

Death of wife is indicated if malefics are in the 
1 2th 4th and 8th places from Venus, or if Venus is 
malefic or if Venus is between, malefics or is 
associated with or aspected by malefics. 



98 1 ( STREE JATAKA 



c 



(2) If the lord of the 7th is in the 5th, death of 
wife or childlessness is indicated. Death of wife is 
certain if the lord of the 5th or 8th is in the 7th. If 
the waning Moon is in the 5th and if malefics are in 
the 12th, 7th or Lagna, the person will be without 
wife and children. 

Loss of wealth due to relations with women is 
indicated if Rahu and the Sun are in the 7th house* 

(3) If Scorpio is the 7th place and Venus is 
there, death of spouse is indicated. If Taurus is 7th 
and Mercury there, death of wife is certain. The same 
is the case if Capricoen is the 7th and debilitated 
Jupiter is posited there. Also, when Pisces is the 7th 
and Saturn occupies it. If Cancer is the 7th and 
Saturn and Mars are there, the wife will be beautiful 
and chaste. 

(4) If the lord of the 7th is together with or 
aspected by a malefic and occupies the 7th house, or 
is betwixt malefics or is in debilitated sign, inimical 
house or eclipsed, unhappiness with wife is indicated. 
{It may be death or divorce or constant friction). 

If Venus together with a malefic were either in 
the 7th or the 5th or the 9th the wife eill be defective 
in limbs. 

If either Venus, Saturn of Mars is in Shadvarga or 
if aspected by Mars or Saturn, the person will be 
interested in other women. 

(5) If Venus or the Moon is in the 7th from 
Mars and Saturn the person will lose his wife and be 



^■M 



STREE JATAKA 1 ( 99 



childless. The same effect if neutral planets(i,e. Saturn 
and Mercury) are in the 7th. If in the 11th house, 
there are two planets, the person will have two wives. 

Others read this verse differently and affirm that 
if 2 planets are in the 1 1th, 7th or the 4th the 
person will have two wives. 

If the lord of the 7th and Venus are in the 
common Rasi or riavamsa, the person will have two 
wives. 

The number of wives is inferred from the number 
of planets associated with Venus or the lord of the 

7th. 

(6) The number of wives is indicated by the 
number of planets in the 7th house. If malefics are 
there, death of wife is predicted; but if benefics, her 
longevity and happiness are inferred. 

If the lord of the 7th is a benefic and strong, the 
wife be very good-natured and have nice children. 
Even if the lord of the 7th is a malefic, if he 
occupies the 7th which is his own house he will do 
only good to his wife. Excepting the lords of the 6th, 
8th and the 1 2th, the benefics in the 7th house will 
give happiness to the wife. 

(7) Either association or aspecting of malefics 
in the 2nd and 7th houses indicates death of wife. 
Evil aspects of those houses usually give disaster to 
the person. Likewise in the woman's horoscope, either 
association or aspecting or cruel sight of the 7th or 



100 1 ( STREE JATAKA 



c 



the 8th house indicates evil effects. If on the other 
hand, the 2nd and the 7th houses in male and the 
7th and the 8th houses in female horoscopes are 
either associated with or aspected by benefics, the 
couple will be very happy. 

(8) If the Moon with Saturn is in the 7th the 
woman will have a second marriage (usually it may 
happen that the girl once betrothed to one marries 
another.) On the person will be childless or lose his 
wife of divorce hen If the 7th house is debilitated or 
an inimical house, and if malefics occupy it and 
likewise if the 8th or the 2nd house is debilitated, 
inimical and If malefics occupy it deayi of wife and 
husband at the same time is indicated. 

(9) If the 7th house is an even sign and if. the 
lord of the 7th and Venus are in even signs and if the 
lords of the 5th and the 7th are not eclipsed but are 
strong, the person will have a good wife and nice 
children. 

(10) Similarly, if the lords of the 2nd, the 7th, 
and 1 2th are aspected by Jupiter and are in quadrants 
or trines, and if the 2nd 7th, and 11th places from 
the lord of the 7th are occupied by benefics, the 
person will be happy in wife and children. 

(11) The wife's Lagna is determined by finding 
the sign of the lord of Lagna or of the lord of the 7th 
or their Amsa, or their trines, or the exalted or 
debilitated house of lords of the 1st or the 7th. 



Q STREE JATAKA J 



Likewise the wife's birth will be in the sign which 
has the greatest number of dots (parals or Bindus) 
with Moon's Ashtavarga. 

(12) The signs of the pianets occupying the 7th, 
the lord of the 7th and Venus indicate the direction 
from which the person will get his wife. 

The marriage will be celebrated at the time when 
either Venus or the lord of the 7th transits the dign 
or Amsa occupied by the lord of Lagna. 

(13) The man will marry at the time when the 
planet occupying the 7th, the planet aspecting the 7th 
or the lord of the 7th during their Dasa period of the 
lord of the Lagna reaches the Lagna in transit. 

(14) The marriage date is determined by the time 
when Jupiter during the Qochara reaches either the 
trine or Amsa or the sign occupied by the lord of the 
7th during the Dasa period of either the sign of the 
lord of the 7th or its Amsa or their lords, or, of Venus 
or the Moon, whichever is greater in strength. 

(15) Wise men declare the death of wife when 
the lord of the 7th is in enemy's house or in 
debilitation or in eclipse or aspected by a malefic or 
when the 7th house is associated with or aspected by 
a malefic. 

From JATAKA PARIJAATA 

General 

(1) We are going to describe the results of 
investigation of female horoscopes in terms of 



Q STREE JATAKA J 



prosperity, strength, health, offspring, learning and 
enhancement of fame. 

(2) Whether in seeking for money or in working 
in any field, there is no help. other than the horoscope. 
The woman's chart serves as a vessel to cross the 
ocean of samsaara (life) for the man and as minister 
in his travels. 

(3) The Raja Yoga se£t\ in a woman's horoscope 
has to be appropriately assigned to the husband. His 
death can be determined by the strength of the 
woman's Janma Lagna or the Moon's Lagna. Likewise 
the character of the husband can be found by looking 
at the woman's 7th house and his longevity from her 
8th house. They have to be carefully predicted after 
scrutinizing the strength or weakness of the planetary 
position and their beneficial or malevolent aspects. 

(4) Whichever is stronger between the Janma 
Lagna and the Moon's Lagna of the woman is to be 
taken up for finding out her beauty, prosperity, wealth, 
etc, and about her offspring from her 9th house. Her 
8th house will reveal the state of her married life or 
widowhood, and from the 7th house one can find her 
husband's conjugal life. Some astrologists affirm that 
the prosperity or otherwise of the husband can be 
found from the woman's 9th house. 

(5) Some others affirm that the woman's Lagna 
determines her beauty, fame and prosperity, her 5th 
house about her children, and her 7th house about 
her husband's welfare. From the planets in her 9th 
house, one can find about the husband's conjugal 



Q STREE JATAKA ^ 



bliss or his asceticism. Other effects, whether good or 
bad, are equally shared by the man and the woman. 

(6) If her Janma Lagna and the Moon's are in 
even signs she will be not only beautiful but of 
excellent character; and if associated with or aspected 
by benefics, she will be miid-mennered, good-natured 
and prosperous. If the Lagna (Ascendant) and the 
Lagna of the Moon are in odd signs, she will look 
m^nly, and be full of pranks and passion, and inclined 
to be sinful. If, however, they are aspected by malefics 
or associated with them, she will be of bad character. 

(7) If the Lagna and the Moon are in odd signs, 
but aspected by or associated with benefics she will 
be of a mixed character and she will be like a man 
In stature, behaviour and in intelligence. 

But if the Lagna and the Moon are in even signs 
but associated with or aspected by malefics,the 
prediction is to be given in terms of the planets, 
associated with or aspecting the lords of those signs. 

Polyandrous woman 

(8) If the Ascendant is an odd sign, with strong 
male planets posited therein, and if the Moon, Mercury 
and Venus are in the 11th house and Saturn if of 
common strength, the woman will have several 
husbands. 

World famous woman 

(9) If the Ascendant were to be in an even sign, 
and strong Mars, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus are 
posited therein, the woman will be world famous, 



( j1Q4^ ^ STREE JATAKA ^ 

efficient in all wordly affairs, intelligent and good- 
natured. 

Woman well-versed in Sastras and a manlike woman 
(10) With the Lagna in an odd sign, and Saturn 
of common strength, the Moon in full strength, Venus 
and Mercury posited the spouse will come from the 
direction of the sign or Amsa occupied by the lord of 
the 7th or from the direction of the house of the 
planet occupying the 7th. 

(12) The direction from which the wife comes or 
the husband comes to the native is indicated by the 
planet occupying the 7th place, either from the Lagna 
or the Moon, or the planet aspecting the 7th or from 
the lord of the 7th, 

(13) Make the Ashtavarga of Venus and the Parals 1 
(dots) Bhindhus of the siherein, and the rest of the 
planets being strong, the woman will behave like a 
man. If the Lagna is an even sign and strong Jupiter, 
Mars, Venus and Mercury are in it, the woman will be 
famous, well-versed in the Sastras (a Brahmavaadinee), 

Trimsamsa effects 

(J 1) If either the Janma Lagna or the Chandra 
Lagna is to be in the house of Mars, which is strong 
and the girl is born in the Mars Trimsaamsa, she will 
be of a bad character. 

She will be good-natured if born in the Saturn 
Trimsamsa; mild mannered and. of Saattvic character 
if in Jupiter Trimsamsa; untidy if in Mercury; arid an 
adulteress if in Venus Trimsamsa. 



c 



STREE JATAKA 



(12) If the Ascendant is to be the house of Venus 
and the girl is born in Venus Trimsamsa, she will be 
of a quarrelsome type; if in Mars, she will be cruel; 
she will be saattvic and have children if in Jupiter 
Trimsamsa; if in Saturn she will marry again; if in 
Mercury Trimsamsa she will be artistic interested in 
music; if in Venus she will be beautiful and many a 
scholar (vidwaan) and be loved by all. 

(13) If the house of Mercury happens to be the 
Ascendant or the Moon's Lagna, and a woman born 
in the Mars Trimsamsa will be childless; she will be 
a widow if in Saturn Trimsamsa or she will give birth 
to dead children, she will be chaste but look like a 
eunuch; if in Jupiter Trimsamsa, she will be a devout 
wife married to a Pandit and very beautiful; and if in 
Venus Trimsamsa, she will be happy in possession of 
rich clothes, ornaments, cattle and wealth. 

(14) If Cancer (the house of the Moon) happens 
to be the Ascendant or the Moon's Lagna a woman 
born in a strong Mars Trimsamsa will be romantic 
with her paramours; if the Moon is aspected by a 
malefic, a woman born in the Saturn Trimsamsa will 
be a widow; one born in the Jupiter Trimsamsa will 
die young and have few children; one born in Mercury 
Trimsamsa will be interested in sculputre; and the 
woman, born in Venus Trimsamsa will be lascivious. 

(15) If Leo is to be the Ascendant or the Moon's 
Lagna, the girl born in Mar£ Trimsamsa will be 
masculine by nature and an adulteress; the one born 
In Jupiter Trimsamsa will be good-natured and a queen; 



106 1 ( STREE JATAKA 



c 



the orie in Mercury Trlmsamsa will be manly and 

wicked by nature; and the woman born in Venus 

Trimsamsa will be friendly with a bad man and 
diseased. 

(16) With Jupiter's house as the Janma Lagna or 
Moon's Lagna, the girl born in Mars Trimsamsa will 
be famous and highly esteemed; the one born in 
Saturn Trimsamsa will be a servant-maid and poor; 
the one in Jupiter Trimsamsa will be^decked in fine 
clothes and ornaments; the one In Mercury Trimsamsa 
will be good-natured and worshipped; and the woman 
born in Venus Trimsamsa will possess clothes and 
ornaments. 

(17) With Saturn's house strong as either the 
Ascendant of the Moon's Lagna, the woman born with 
Mars Trimsamsa will be In distress; with Jupiter 
Trimsamsa she will be intelligent and conservative; 
with Mercury Trimsamsa, she will be adulterous; she 
will be virtuous but barren, if in Venus Trimsamsa. By 
looking at the Sphuta Yoga of either the Ascendant or 
the Moon, the results of girls born in the various 
Trimsamsas can be determined. 

Of widowhood, adultery, divorce, etc. 

(18) If the Sun, Mars and Saturn are in the 7th 
house, the woman born in that Yoga will become a 
widow. With both malefics and benefics in the 7th 
house, the girl born in that Yoga will marry a second 
time. She will be divorced by her husband If a weak 
malefic occupies the 7th house and is aspected by a 
benefic. A woman will be interested in a man other 



Q STREE JATAKA J 



than the husband if Mars occupies the Venus ftavamsa 
and Venus occupies Mars Mavamsa. With Venus and 
Mars associated with the, Moon in the 7th house, the 
wife will be adulterous with the husband's connivance. 

(19) If the house of either Mars or Saturn (Aries, 
Scorpio, Capricorn or Aquarius) is to be the Ascendant 
in which are posited the Moon and Venus and is 
aspected by malefics the native along with the mother 
would be having illicit relations with another man. If 
the navamsa commencing from the 7th house happens 
to be that of Mars and is aspected by Saturn, the 
woman will have a diseased organ; but if it is to be 
that of a benefic It will be otherwise and she will be 
pleasing to her husband. 

(20) If there is a weak malefic in the 7th house 
and is aspected by a benefic, the woman will be left 
by her husband. If the 7th house happens to be 
debilitated or inimical, the woman will have enmity 
towards her husband. 

(21) The woman will be left by her husband, if 
the Sun is in the 7th house and is aspected by a 
malefic. If Mars is in the 7th she will be a widow, or 
the couple will be averse to each other If both 
benefics and malefics are in the 7th. the woman will 
marry again. If Saturn Is in the 7th and aspected by 
a malefic, the woman will not only become a widow 
but old too. 

(22) She is a widow, if the 7th is a malefic 
house '-and Saturn occupies it. She will have romantic 



( STREE JATAKA J 



relations with another man, if Venus and Mars occupy 
each other's house. If the Moon occupies the 7th, 
both will be heretical, i.e. following evil ways. She 
will be barren, if the Lagna is to be the house or 
either the house of Mars or Saturn is occupied by the 
Moon and Venus and a malefic is in the 5th house. 

(23) If the house of Mars is to be the 7th sign/ 
Amsa and is aspected by Saturn, the girl marries a 
luckless man. But if Venus Amsa were to rise in the 
7th sign and aspected by a benefic, she would be 
loved by her husband. 

(24) If the Moon and Mercury are in Lagna which 
happens to be the house of Mars, the woman will be 
averse to her husband. She will be gossipy, if the 
Moon and Mercury are there, will enjoy happiness if 
Mars and Mercury are there; will have property of her 
own if the Moon, Mercury and Venus are there; and 
will have good children, be intelligent and have 
ornaments it Jupiter is in the Lagna. 

(25) Good will come to the woman, if benefics 
are in exaltation. If malefics are in the 8th, she will 
become a widow. The same is the case if malefics 
aspect the &th, or if the lord of the 8th Mavamsa or 
malefics are in the 8th house. If benefics are in the 
8th, she predeceases her husband. 

(26) The woman will be blessed with a good 
husband, wealth, many children, happiness, fame and 
longevity, if benefics are in the 9th, and malefics in 
the 7th or 8th house. She has many children, if either 



c 



STREE JATAKA \ (109 



Cancer or Sagittarius happens to be the Lagna and 
malefics are in the 4th house; at the same time her 
husband is very poor. 

(27) She will have few children, If Taurus, Leo, 
Virgo or Scorpio happens to the Lagna and the Moon 
is in the 5th house* if malefics are in the 7th, 9th, 
1st or 8th house, she will be affllicted by sorrow and 
poverty. But if both beneflcs and malefics are in the 
above houses, her happiness will also be mixed* If 
only benefics are there, she will have unalloyed 
happiness. She will meet death by weapons, if the 
lord of the 5th is in the 6th and the lord of the 6th 
is in Lagna. 

(28) If all malefics are in the 7th house, she 
becomes a widow. If both malefics and benefics are 
in the 8th she will marry again* If weak malefics are 
there, she will be deserted by her husband. 

(29) If the Moon associated with Venus and Mars 
are in the 7th She will have illicit relations with other 
with her husbahd's connivance. The same is the case 
if the Moon, Venus and Mars are in the sign or 
riavamsa of Mars or Saturn. 

(30) If benefics are associated with Venus and 
the Moon and occupy the sign or Amsa of Saturn or 
Mars, the girl born in that Yoga will be immoral and 
be adulterous along with her mother. 

(31) The woman will have a diseased organ, if 
Mars Navarnsa is in the 7th place from the Janma 
Lagna Navamsa and aspected by the Sun and Mercury. 



( STREE JATAKA J 



If a benefic Navamsa were to be in the 7th place, she 
would be good and have children. If it is otherwise, 
the results would be reversed. 

(32) She will be lustful if two malefics are in the 
7th; if three malefics are there, she will be an 
adulteress, and her husband will die after her, if there 
is a benefic in the 7th, she will marry a minister; if 
three benefics are there, she will not only be good 
but marry a king. 

(33) She will be burning with lust and passion, if 
Venus and Saturn occupy each other's Fiavamsa or 
aspect each other, or is born in the Taurus Navamsa. 
If a malefic occupies the 7th house from the Moon. 
She will become a widow. But a benefic in the 7th 
from the Moon confers a queenly position on hen 

(34) Shfe will be an angry woman, but happy too 
if the Moon and Venus are in her Lagna; if the Moon 
is in the Lagna, whatever be the sign, she will be 
happy but not interested in sex. , 

(35) The woman born with her Lagna in the house 
of the Moon or Venus will be beautiful and good - 
natured; learned and scholarly born in the house of 
Jupiter or Mercury; and one born with Jupiter. Mercury 
and Venus in her Lagna will be blessed with fame and 
all good qualities. 

Of good wives 

(36) If Jupiter is in the 9th, 5th, 1st, 4th, 7th or 
10th or in exaltation, the woman will be of excellent 
character, good, blessed with children, wealth. 



( STREE JATAKA J 



happiness and will bring fame and glory to the two 
houses. 

(37) If benefits aspect the Lagna, she will be 
proficient in handicrafts, be of steady mind,modest, 
beautiful in appearance, have good children, and 
blessed with happiness and prosperity. She will be 
loving towards her husband and attract lots of praise 
and glory to the family. 

Of asceticism 

(38) With Cancer as Lagna, and the Moon, a 
strong Venus, Mercury and Jupiter occupying it, the 
woman will be learned in the.Sastras and become 
famous and highly esteemed. She becomes a 
Sanyaasinee according to the planets in the 7th or 
9th house. This has to be determined according to 
the Lagna at the time of marriage. 

(39) If a malefic is in the 7th, the woman takes 
to asceticism according to the nature of the planet In 
the 9th. This has to be determined according to the 
Lagna of marriage, of engagement etc. 

(40) Also this has to be investigated in terms of 
the husband's horoscope according to the above 
categories. 

Time of widowhood 

(41) Widowhood is certain if malefics are in the 
8th house. That will happen after tfife number of years 
given for the planet in the Wavamsa occupied by the 



c 



STREE JATAKA 



lord of the 8th house. If beneflcs occupy the 2nd 
house the woman will die. She will have only few 
children if the Moon is to be in Virgo, Scorpio, Taurus 
or Leo, 

Of couples dying same time 

(42) If neutrally strong benefics and malefics 
occupy the 8th house or aspect it, the couple will die 
almost at the same time. Further, if the lord of the 
7th and the lord of Lagna are together in the same 
sign, or if the lord of the 7th is in Lagna and the lord 
of Lagna in the 7th, and associated with benefics, the 
couple will die together at the same time. 

(43) If benefics are in the 2nd house, the woman 
will die at the time of the Dasa Bhukti of the planet 
which is stronger of them. Also, the time is determined 
by the Dasa Bhukti of the planet in the 8th, or the 
lord of the 8th, or the lord of the 8th Amsa. 

(44) If the lord of the 3rd is strong and a male, 
or in a male sign, or associated with or aspected by 
a male planet, or if the 3rd house is in a trine or a 
quadrant, the woman will have a brother who is 
wealthy and prosperous. 

(45) If the lords of the 3rd and 1 Ith are in the 
5th house the woman will have a brother who has 
regal figure, splendour and character. 

Characteristics of the husband 

(46) The husband will be of a cruel nature, if the 
7th house in the woman's horoscope is unoccupied 



Q STREE JAtAKA ^ (TlT^ 

by a planet, or aspected by a malefic and unaspected 
by a benefic. If Mercury associated with Saturn is in 
the 7th, the husband will be impotent. The woman 
will be therefore childless. If the 7th is a moveable 
sign, the husband will be ever on foreign tours, 

(47) If the Sun in the 7th is in his own riavamsa, 
the woman's husband will be mild-mannered but 
playful. The husband will be happy if the Moon in the 
7th is in his own Navamsa. Me will be of an adulterous 
nature, if Mars in the 7th is in his own riavamsa. He 
will be a learned pandit, it Mercury in the 7th is in his 
own Navamsa. He will be a conqueror of his senses, 
if Jupiter in the 7th is in own riavamsa; Saturn in a 
similar position makes the husband old and cruel. 

(48) If the woman's 7th sign is born in the 7th 
Amsa, the husband will have delicate features, be 
good-natured and proficient in every undertaking. If 
Saturn in the 7th is in own house and own navamsa, 
the husband will be old and cruel in nature, 

(49) If the lord of the 9th and Jupiter are to be 
in the 6th 8th or 12th the husband will be short- 
lived. But if they are to be in trine or in a quardrant, 
the husband will be long-lived and prosperous. If they 
are together with Mercury and the lord of the 4th, the 
husband will be a learned Vidwaan. He will be an 
agriculturist, if they (the lord of the 9th and Jupiter) 
are associated with Mars and Saturn. He will be a 
rogue if they are associated with Rahu and Ketu. He 
will be a leader of a gang of robbers if the lord of the 
6th is associated with the lord of the 9th and Jupiter. 



(Tl4^ Q stree jataka ^ 

Effects of various planets in the 7th house 

(50) If in the woman's horoscope, the 7th is 
occupied by the Sun, her husband will be white- 
complexioned, lustful, and sensitive. With the Moon 
in the 7th, the husband will be humble, lazy, sweet- 
tongued, red-complexioned but with lewd tastes. He 
would be learned, wealthy and good, if Mercury were 
to be in the 7th house of the woman's horoscope. 

(51) If Jupiter is to be in the 7th the husband 
will be long-lived, famous and wealthy like a king; he 
would have been lustful in his younger years. Beautiful 
playful and poetic will be the husband if Venus is in 
the 7th. With Saturn in the 7th. the husband will be 
old and weak and sinful. Dull and low-natured will be 
the husband if Rahu and Ketu are in the 7th. 

(52) If the woman's horoscope contains features 
relating to the Yogas in the male horoscope about 
Karma, Dharma, direction or country, they have to be 
applied to the husband. The woman will have children 
according to the strongest planet in the 7th Piavamasa. 
If the lord of the 7th is in a quadrant, marriage 
festivities would be on a grand scale. 

Note: This Sloka is rather muddled; and the 
translator would be grateful for a better 
version available anywhere. 

From JATAKA TATTVA 

(1) Whatever effects have been stated for male 
horoscopes are also applicable to female horoscopes. 



( STREE JATAKA J M15 

(2) Whatever is not applicable to women have 
to be attributed to their husbands. 

(3) By looking at the Janma Lagna and the 
Moon's in a woman's horoscope her appearance, and 
from the 7th house her married welfare, and from the 
8th her widowhood or otherwise can be determined. 

(4) The woman will have feminine characteristics 
if her Ascendant or the Moon's Lagna is to be in an 
even sign; if aspected by benefics, her character will 
be very good and her behaviour sweet. 

(5) If the Ascendant or the Moon's Lagna is in 
an odd sign, she will be masculine in nature and 
appearance; and if aspected by or associated with 
malefics, she will be sinful and characterless. 

(6) Whichever .is stronger of the two — the 
Ascendant or the Moon's Lagna, the effects of their 
Trimsamsas are narrated below ; 

(7) The girl born in the Mars Trimsamsa in the 
house of Mars will be roguish, even when young; in 
Mercury Trimsamsa (in Mars house), she will be 
charming; in Jupiter Trimsamsa very good-natured; in 
Venus Trimsamsa, of bad character; and in Saturn 
Trimsamsa a servant. 

(8) In the house of Venus, the girl born in 
Venus Trimsamsa will be esteemed for her good 
character; born in Mercury Trimsamsa will be artistic; 
in Jupiter Trimsamsa will be of good character; in 
Saturn Trimsamsa will marry again; and in Mars 
Trimasamsa will be roguish. 



M16J C STREE JATAKA J 

(9) In the house of Mercury, the girl born in 
Mars Trimsamsa will be a cheat; in Mercury Trimsamsa 
will be of good character; in Jupiter Trimsamsa will 
be chaste; in Venus Trimsamsa will be lusty; and in 
Saturn Trimsamsa will be bold by nature. 

(10) The girl born in the Mars Trimsamsa in the 
sign of Cancer will be a prostitute; in Mercury 
Trimsamsa will be a sculptor; in Jupiter Trimsamsa 
will be of very good character; in Venus Trimsamsa 
an unchaste woman; and one born in Saturn 
Trimsamsa will kill her husband. 

(11) One born in the house of Leo in Mars 
Trimsamsa will have a manly bearing and behaviour; 
in Mercury Trimsamsa the girl will be playful like a 
boy; in Jupiter Trimsamsa will be proud; in Venus 
Trimsamsa will be incestuous with her own son; and 
in Saturn Trimsamsa will have failed her family and 
clan. 

(12) In the house of Jupiter (Sagittarius and 
Pisces) the girl born in. Mars Trimsamsa will be of 
good character; in Mercury Trimsamsa will be specially 
intelligent; in the Jupiter Trimsamsa will be 
philosophical and wise; in Venus Trimsamsa will be 
charate; and in Saturn Trimsamsa wijl be unchaste. 

(13) In the house of Saturn (Capricorn and 
Aquarius) the girl born in Mars Trimsamsa will be a 
prostitute; in Mercury Trimsamsa will be roguish; in 
Jupiter Trimsamsa will be mild and sweet in manners; 
in Venus Trimsamse will be barren; and in Saturn 
Trimsamsa will be unchaste. 



Q STREE JATAKA ^ C 11 Q 

Of lesbianism 

(14) If Venus and Saturn are to be in each other's 
Amsa, or are to aspect each other, and if the house 
of Venus happens to be the Lagna and if the Lagnamsa 
happens to be the Amsa of Aquarius, the girl born in 
such a Yoga will indulge in lesbian activities. 

(15) If the 7th house is unoccupied and is weak 
and unaspected by any benefic, the woman will have 
a bad husband. 

(16) If either Mercury or Saturn were to be In the 
7th house, the woman would have a eunch for her 
husband. 

(17) If the Lagna were to be a moveable sign, 
the husband would be wandering all over the country. 

(18) If the Sun occupies the 7th house, the 
woman will be left by her husband. (This is applicable 
to the horoscopes with Cancer or Leo as Lagna) 

(19) If Mars were to be in the house and aspected 
by malefics the woman would be a widow in her 
young age. (This is applicable to Gemini or Virgo 
Lagna horoscopes). 

(20) If Saturn Were to be in the 7th and aspected 
by malefics the girl would not be married. (This has 
to be inferred carefully.) 

(21) If both malefics and benefics are in the 7th, 
she will marry again. 

(22) With a weak malefic in the 7th' and aspected 
by a malefic, divorce is predicted. 



Q STREE JATAKA J 



(23) If Mars and Venus occupy each other's Amsa, 
the woman will be interested in another man. 

(24) If the Moon, Mars and Venus or the Moon 
and the Sun are in the 7th, the woman will have sex 
relations with another man at the command of her 
husband. 

(25) Both mother and daughter will be prostitutes, 
if the Lagna is to be in the house of Saturn or Mars, 
and Venus and the Moon are posited therein, and 
aspected by malefics. 

(26) If the 7th happens to be the house or Amsa 
of Mars, and aspected by Saturn, the woman will 
have a diseased organ. 

(27) If a benefic sign or Amsa happens to be the 
7th house, she will have lovely features and be loved 
by her husband. 

(28) The husband will be short-lived, if the 7th 
happens to be the house or Amsa of the Sun. 

(29) The husband will be soft and lecherous if 
the 7th happens to be the house or Amsa of the 
Moon. 

(30) If, Saturn is in Mars Rasi/Navamsa, the 
husband will be loving but prone to anger. 

(31) With Mercury house or Amsa as the 7th, the 
husband will be a scholar (Vidwaan). 

(32) The husband will be. good-natured and a 
conqueror of his senses, if Jupiter's house or Amsa 
happens to be the 7th. 



c 



STRES JATAKA i I 119 



(33) The husband would be lucky if Venus sign 
or Amsa were to be the 7th. 

(34) He will be old and cruel if Saturn sign or 
Amsa happens to be the 7th. 

(35) If both the Moon and Venus are to be in the 
Lagna, the woman will . be of a jealous nature but 
happy. 

(36) She will be scholarly and artistic and also 
happy and good-natured if both Mercury and the Moon 
are in the Lagna. 

(37) If both Mercury and Venus are in the Lagna, 
she will be showy, artistic and loving towards her 
husband. 

(38) She will be very happy and good if several 
benefics are in Lagna, 

(39) If malefics are in the 8th house, she will 
become a widow during the Dasa of the lord of the 
Amsa occupied by the lord of the 8th. 

(40) She will have few children, if the Moon is to 
be in Taurus, Virgo, Scopio or Leo. 

(41) If Saturn were of neutral strength, the male 
planets in full strength and the others weak, the girl 
born in a male sign would be bold and enterprising 
like a man. 

(42) If Mercury, Mars, Jupiter and Venus are strong 
and -the Lagna is a female sign, the woman will be 
famous and proficient in Brahma Vidyaa." 



M20J ^ STREE JATAKA J 

(43) If a cri^el planet were in the 7th, she would 
tread the Dharma path and become a Sanyaasinee. 

(44) If the 7th house is a malefic sign, and 
aspected by a malefic, the woman will be childless. 

(45) If a benefic is in the 7th house, she will be 
pleasing to the husband; if two benefics, she will be 
excellent; and if three benefics, she will be a queen. 

(46) With Rahu in the 7th, She will be unhappy 
and bring in-famy to the family. 

(47) If malefics are to be in the Ascendant, or 
the Moon's Lagna or in the 7th or 8th house, she 
becomes a widow, 

(48) She becomes a widow also when either the 
7th, the 8th, of the 1 2th house happens to be that 
of Mars, and Rahu occupies it. 

(49) If either the Ascendant or the Moon's Lagna 
is between malefics and unaspected by a benefic, 
she brings disaster to the two families. 

(50) If Cancer is to be the 7th house and both 
Mars and Saturn are there, the woman will be 
interested in others and be unchaste. 

riote : (This seems to be in opposition to what is 
stated in Phaladeepika) 

(51) Being left by the husband, the woman begins 
to have relations with others if Mars associated with 
a malefic is to be in any of the signs, Lagna, the 4th, 
the 8th, the 12th or the 7th house. 



c 



STREE JATAKA 1 ( 121 



Of widowhood 

(52) If a malefic is to be in Lagna or the 7th 
house, the woman will be widowed in the 7th year of 
her marriage. 

(53) She will be widowed in the 8th year of her 
marriage, if the Moon is to be in the 6th or the 8th 
house. 

(54) if the lord of the 8th is in the 7th and the 
lord of the 7th in the 8th and aspected by malefifcs, 
the bride is widowed soon after marriage. 

(55) The same is the case if the lords of the 6th 
and the 8th are in either the 6th or the 12th house 
and aspected by malefics. 

(56) If Jupiter or Venus is in the 8th the woman 
will have a difficult delivery and/or will have abortion. 

(57) If the Moon is in the 8th the woman will be 
unchaste. 

(58) Saturn in the 8th gives her a diseased 
husband. 

(59) The Sun in the 8th makes the woman 
sorrowful in distress. 

(60) Rahu in the 8th is the caise for tfte woman 
to destroy the Kula Dharma. 

Visha Kanya' or 'Poison girl' 

■ (61) The girl born on. Saturday, Dwiteeya Tithi 
and Aslesha star will be a Vishakanya. 



122^ (^ STREE JATAKA ^ 



(62) Also one born on Sunday, Dwaadasi Tithi 
and Satabhisha star. 

(63) Also one born on Tuesday, Saptami Tithi 
and Visaakha star. 

(64) If a benefic and malefic are in Lagna and 
malefics in the 6th, the girl born in that Yoga will be 
a Vishakanya. 

(65) Also one with the Sun in the 5th, Saturn in 
Lagna and Mars in the 9th. 

(66) The girl born in Vishakanya Yoga will be 
luckless, poor, afflicted by ailments and give birth to 
children who soon die. 

(67) There is no Vishakanya Yoga if the lord of 
the 7th or a benefic is posited in the 7th house. 

(68) The women born with Mercury in the 8th 
wiil have only one child. 

(69) If both Saturn and the Sun are in the 8th 
the woman will be berren. 

(70) All these have to be considered either before 
marriage or during the Trasna-time'. 



Stree Jataka Ends 



ih^i 



