Kadalangudi Centenary 
Book Series No.2 

JAATAKA CHANDRIKAA" 
CR 

RAAJA YOGAS & 
MARRIAGE AGREEMENT 

KAALIDAASA 



The book deals in detail with the (eleven) criteria for 
marriage -compatibility, Mars - Defect and remedies. 

Translated in Tamil by : 
REV. PANDIT KADALANGUDI NATESASACTRI 

Transcreated in English by 

"Asia's Leading Woman Astrologist-Counsetlor" 

Jyothisa Kataanidhi 

PR MRS. K.N. SARASWATHY 

MA, M.S., M.Ed., Doctorate in Counselling, 

Diplomas in Naturopathy, Art, Yoga and Computer 

and 

PROF. B. ARDHANAREESWARAN 

MA., B.Sc., M.Ed., Doctorate in Linguistics 



CONTENTS 

Page 

Dedication 3 

Preface 7 

Note on Aachaarya Kadalangudi 9 

Salutation to the Planets 17 

PART - I 

1 . Invocation 27 

2. Table of malefic and benefic planets 29 

3. Aspects of Planets .30 

4. Planets in Kendra 33 

5. Raahu and Ketu 39 

6. Raaja Yogas .40 

7. Longevity. .47 

8. Planets and various means of death 50 

9. Raaja Yoga Bhuktia 57 

10. Benefic or malefic planets 61 

(1) Aries 61 

(2) Taurus 62 

(3 & 4) Gemini and Cancer. 63 

(5) Leo 64 

(6&7) Virgo, Libra 65 

(8) Scorpio 66 

(9) Sagittarius 67 

(10) Capricorn 67 

(11) Aquarius 68 

(12) Pisces 69 



C contents) 



part - n 

11. Various Kinds of Matching 71 

(i) Dina Matching 72 

(ii) Gana Matching 73 

(iii) Mahendra Matching 75 

(iv) Stree-Deergha Matching 75 

(v) Yoni Matching 76 

(vi) RaaSi Matching 78 

(vii) RaaSi-Lord Matching 79 

(vlii)VaSyam Matching .81 

(ix) Rajju Matching .82 

(x) Vedha Matching .84 

(xi) NaaDi Matching .86 

12. Enquiring into the nature of RaaSis etc. 87 

1. RaaSi 87 

2. GaNaas 87 

3. Lords of RaaSis 88 

4. NaaDi 88 

13. About Mars-dosha 91 

14. Propitiation of Mars 93 

i) Mars Mantra 93 

ii) Mars Kavacha 95 

iii) Mars Stotras. 98 

iv) Mars Namaavall 101 

Glossary 103 

Appendix 106 

TOTAL NO. OF PAGES : . . . 112 



PREFACE 



As the Moon reveals things hidden in darkness; 
this book reveals the effects, good or bad, hidden in 
the womb of Time; hence is the title Jaataka 
Chandrikaa appropriate. 

Tradition holds that this classic was written by the 
immortal poet KaaLidaasa. This serves as a key to unlock 
the iron safe of the science of Astrology. No pandit of 
this science ever ventures on prediction without 
consulting this classic. MantreSwara, who is usually called 
the 'Apara Varaahamihira', devotes nearly ten verses 
(Chapter XX : 44-52) of his Jaataka Phaladeepikaa in 
praise of this book. Henoe it is no surprise that the 
public regards this as a godsend to the world of 
Astrology. 

Readers will find it particularly useful since it deals 
with marriage agreement criteria in addition to 'Kuja 
Dosha 1 (the effect of the 'malefic' Mars on compatibility, 
offspring, and longevity of the spouse), longevity and 
Raaja Yogas. 

We are certain that learners, practitioners, 
researchers, and lovers of Hindu Astrological Science will 
find this book quite useful. 

Suggesstions from them for improvement of the 
book will be gratefully received. 




8 ) ( PREFACE) 



We will be failing in our duty if we do not 
acknowledge the encouragement given to us by our 
Advisory Committee. We are particularly indebted to 
Professor B. Ardhanareeswaran (Eeswaran) for all his help 
and encouragement. 

We are highly appreciative of the expeditious and 
efficient service done by the enthusiastic publisher, 
Mr. MA Jaishankar grandson of Aachaarya Kadalangudi 
and son of Dr. K.N. Saraswathy. 

Vijayadasami * Kadalangudi Astrological 

Oct. 19, 1999 Indological Research Centre 



ACHARYA KADALANGUDI 

How true these words of Shakespeare in the 
mouth of Julius Caesar were in the case of Revered 
Pandit Brahmasri Kadalangudi Natesa Sastri! Here 
was a valiant man who braved poverty, braved the 
ridicule of the atheists, braved the obstruction of the 
orthodox, and the prejudice which some vernacular 
scholars had been entertaining against Sanskrit, and 
with unique and singleminded devotion rendered a 
signal service in the spread of the supreme Bharatiya 
wisdom. 

Revered Pandit Kadalangudi Natesa Sastri, 
whose birth centenary was celebrated in 1978, had a 
great share in the religious and cultural Renaissance 
since his main work was in bringing the valuable 
treasures embedded in the ancient literature to the 
attention of the general public and making them 
available in a language understood by the layman. It 
is an evidence of his broad culture and a significant 
sign of the changing times that he put before one 
and all without distinction of caste or community or 
religion, Vedic Mantras such as those in the Taitreeya 
Aaranyakam. He had dedicated his life to this noble 
cause by translating the almost entire religious classics 
into Tamil and publishing more than 50 books along 
with the original texts in Devanagari script. 



f(jo) ( ACHARYA kapalangupQ j 

Birth and Education: 

Born on 5th October 1878 of the couple Rama 
Sastri and Meenakshi Ammal at Kadalangudi Village 
near Kumbakonam in Thanjavur District in Tamil 
Nadu (India) he learnt Kaavyas, Naatakas, Alankaaras, 
Vyaakarana, Vedanta, Astrology and Mantra Saastras. 
Among his teachers were two Mahaamahopaadhyaayas; 
his Guru Bhakti was such that in every publication 
of his he got it printed that the rendering was by 
Mahaamahopaadhyaaya Vedantakesari Brahmasri 
Pangaanaadu Ganapati Sastri's disciple Pandit 
Kadalangudi Natesa Sastri. 

Role of Educator: 

In 1908 he started giving discourses at 
Tirunelveli on Advaita Vedanta. From 1914 to 1916 
he gave Vedanta lessons in Travancore Samasthaanam. 
During this period he specialized in the study of and 
discussion on Bhaagavatam and Hindu Astrology. He 
was honoured by the Maharajah of Travancore. On 
25th July 1910 he was honoured by the Maharajah 
of Mysore. While introducing him to the Maharajah, 
Dewan VP. Madhava Row remarked : 

"Though young he is a man of exceptionally 
brilliant parts and wonderful grasp of the principles of 
the Vedanta. I derived much benefit from his discourses. 
What I consider to be a special merit in the young 
man is his spirit of tolerance ." 

The Sankaracharyas of Kanchipuram and Sringeri 
Mutts had conferred titles on him. 



(ACHARYA KADALANGUDI ) (J1 

The Times in Which He Emerged : 

At the beginning of the century Hindu 
orthodoxy was, to use Shelley's words about 
Catholicism, " only adoration, faith, submission, blind 
admiration; not a rule for moral conduct;" and Hindu 
Dharma was "a passion, a persuasion, an excuse, a 
refuge, never a check according to the temper of the 
mind which it inhabited." The stalwarts of the Hindu 
fold were unwilling to deal in a sympathetic spirit with 
the growing desire of those educated in English 
schools and colleges to get at the rationale of Hindu 
custom and usages; and in fact, they refused to 
encourage any such quest. These led to the deplorable 
result of alienating the English educated Hindu 
altogether from that interest in ancient Indian 
Knowledge which one would gladly have seen in their 
mental equipment and from the observance of those 
rites and ceremonials which form the indispensable 
discipline making for purity of thought and body, 
necessary for any spiritual development. Their example 
easily began to spread this lack of interest even 
among non-English educated men; for the former 
were taken to be the repositories of modern wisdom 
whom it would be unfashionable not to follow. But, 
fortunately, the tide has turned. 

National leaders like Swami Vivekananda, Tilak, 
Aurobindo and Mahatma Gandhi highlighted the 
salient points of India's hoary civilization and glorious 
culture inspired by the spiritual insight of her sages, 
and showed how a departure from which had resulted 




12) rAGHARYA KADALANGUpf) j 



in her slavery to foreign domination. At such a time 
emerged on the. scene the great Kadalangudi. 

Journalist Par Excellence : 

Pandit Kadalangudi Natesa Sastri settled down 
in Madras on 27th November 1917. Without much 
capital on hand he set up his own press and launched 
his monthly journal AARYAMATA SAMVARDHANEE, 
which met a long-felt need of the public. He 
popularized through his journal the rare ancient 
religious classics through the medium of a reliable 
Tamil translation and propagated a knowledge of the 
significance of Hindu rituals, method of worship, etc. 

Grand Publications: 

The period 1923 to 1928 saw the publication 
of 9 Vedic books, 6 Upanishads, 4 Vols, of 
Brahmasuutra Sankara Bhaashyam, 7 Vols, of 
Srimad Bhaagavatam, 12 Astrology books and more 
than 12 Stotra books. Each book carried a scholarly 
Preface as lengthy as Bernard Shaw's, detailed 
contents and an Index of Slokas to be of help to 
the users of the book; the Rt. Hon'ble Srinivasa Sastri 
echoed the thought of the other readers when he 
said Kadalangudfs footnotes were imaginative and 
considerate of the reader's difficulty. 

The value of each book was enhanced by the 
author's collateral references which bring together all 
the learning on the subject and critical commentary 
at once admirable and most helpful. In the astrology 



ACHARYA KADALANGUDI ) ( 13 

books judgement based on the author's experience is 
also given wherever there are conflicting schools of 
thought. The meaning of the text is clearly and 
succinctly explained; the exposition is complete and 
authoritative. 

No wonder his books are used for research 
guidance. His astrology books continue to be used as 
basic reference books by Tamil-knowing people all 
over the world. 

The Greatness of Kadalangudi's Translation : 

Only those who are engaged in translation work 
can realize how arduous the work is; while the 
difficulty of communicating the ideas in one language 
through the medium of another is always difficult, it 
is still more difficult to translate a valuable abstruse 
work fiom Sanskrit into Tamil Thiru ViXa. opines 
thus:- 

"Many will finch from even undertaking the 
translation of such abstract and scholarly treatises. But 
this iv what the learned Kadalangudi Sastriar has dared 
to do in a spirit of dedication and sendee, regardless 
of praise or blame. And it is wonderful how well he 
has done this superhuman task. Our mind does not 
permit us to stale that Acharya Kadalangudi Natesa 
Sastriji working at the translation purely from the 
standpoint of learning. But we can confidently affirm 
that he is labouring also from the standpoint of love 
that transcends all knowledge." 

This swelling flood of translation flows from a 
source full of knowledge and love and it is the bounden 



14) (^ACHARYA KADALANGUDI 

duty of every Tamilian to drink it... South India was 
all the poorer for want of accurate translation of the 
great classic. But this want has now been supplied and 
the ideas in the classics, made accessible to the Tamil 
public by the Tamil translation so nobly undertaken by 
Acharya Kadalangudi Natesa Sastri y that veteran 
scholar. We in the South owe him a deep debt of 
gratitude for this labour of love" 

What is not widely known is that he was a great 
poet; he had left behind him a large number of 
Sanskrit verses which constituted his diary. 

Around 1940 Kulapati KM. Munshi invited him 
to become Principal of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan 
Sanskrit College in Bombay; Kadalangudi declined it 
with thanks since he wanted to be self-employed and 
enjoy the accruing freedom to pursue his studies. 

RajajPs TVibute : 

While speaking at Kadalangudi's 'Sataabhishekam' 
function (completion of 81 years 4 months of age 
equivalent to 100 lunar years) at Siva- Vishnu Temple 
in Madras on October 11, 1958 Rajaji (who was of 
the same age) expressed as follows: 

"The public need not bother to arrange another 
grand celebration of my } Sataabhishekam\ 1 deem it 
to have been celebrated along with this function in 
honour of the veteran Revered Pandit Kadalangudi 
Natesa Sastri" 

Such was the mutual admiration and affection 
between the two intellectual giants. 



f (Dr. k.n.s. ) (js)) 

His End : 

The Revered Pandit who laid the Indian public 
under deep obligation to him by publishing and 
propagating ancient works and making the most 
valuable contribution to the study of Advaita Vedanta, 
Srimad Bhaagavatam, and Hindu Astrology attained 
immortality at the holiest of holy moments: at 11-30 
pjTL on Mahaasivaraatri in 1961 (on Feb, 14, 1961 
at the Lingaavirbhava Lagna). 

His Mission : 



Both in the several books and in his numerous 
lectures he had stood for the consolidation based on 
the Vedas of the Hindu Dharma by ensuring social 
unity along with individual purity. He had been and 
continues to be a source of inspiration to many of 
his disciples who have profited by learning the gems 
hidden in the ancient classics, both philosophical and 
didactic, and which have a direct bearing on the 
practical conduct of everyday. 

Dr. K.N. Saraswathy his Daughter and Disciple : 

He had no sons and therefore he chose to give 
intensive training in the practice of Astrology to his 
youngest daughter KJST. Saraswathy, and training in 
exposition of epics and Naaraayaneeyam to his eldest 
son-in-law Anantaraama Deekshitar. 

The great Pandit had no patience or time to 
lose with indifferent disciples or those without 
intuition, as far as astrology was concerned. 
Astrological study required more intense concentration, 



16j) ( NOTE ON THE PUBLIS HER 

capacity for application , and intuition . So the only 
disciple who completed the course and internship in 
astrology under Kadalangudi was K.N. Saraswathy. 
Even after the course he was happy to have her as 
apprentice and collaborator in republishing the 
astrology books. 



NOTE ON THE PUBLISHER 

We are highly appreciative of the expeditious 
and efficient service done by the enthusiastic Publisher 
Mr. MA Jaishankar. He is grandson of Rev. Pt. 
Kadalangudi Natesa Sastri. He is an Economics 
graduate with a Masterate in Business Management 
(MBA) 

He manages distribution of books brought out 
by Kadalangudi Publications, and the programs of the 
Kadalangudi Astrological (Indological) Research 
Centre , (Regd . Charitable Trust) , which conducts 
Correspondence Courses on Astrology and Art in 
English/Tamil. 

He has enthusiastically organized and been 
conducting these correspondence courses. He has been 
bringing out with great interest and devotion the 
revised edition of the earlier titles and new titles of 
the Kadalangudi Centenary Book Series, each time in 
a better get up. He is mightily interested in culture, 
and modernization not deterimental to but supporting 
culture, and in Oriental Studies. 

Kadalangudi Astrological (Indological) 
Research Centre Advisory Committee 



Nine Planets 

S ALUTATION TO THE 
NINE PLANETS 

I salute the SUN who is like Hingula ('Japaa 1 flower), 
who is Sage KaSyapa's son, who is effulgent, who is the 
dispeller of darkness, and who washes off sins. 

I salute the MOON whose colour is that of curd, conch 
and snow, who emerged out of the Milky Ocean and who 
bedecks the tuft of lord Siva. 

I salute MARS who is earth's son, who is as lustrous as 
lightning and who holds the weapon Sakti in his hand. 

I salute MERCURY, who is dark like Panicum Italicum 

('priyangu') bud who is of peerless form, who is intelligent and 
quiet- natured and who is the Moon's son. 

I salute JUPITER who is the Guru of gods and Rishis, 
who is extraordinarily intelligent, and who is the lord of the 
three worlds. 

I salute VENUS who is as bright as snow, the fragrant 
oleander ('Kunda' flower) and the lotus stem, who is the Guru 
of demons and who preaches all the Saastras. 

I salute SATURN who shines like the blue mascara, who 
is the son of the Sun and Chaayaa and who is the elder brother 
of Yarna, 

I salute RAAHU, who has half-body, who has valour, 
who opposes the Sun and the Moon, and whose mother is 
Simhikaa, 

I salute KETU, who resembles Butea Frondosa ('Palasa' 
flower), who is the head of stars and planets, and who is wrathful 
and fearsome. 




(Jaataka Chand 



rikaaSj 



NINE PLANETS 

(^SUURYA(THE SUnQ 






Japaakusurna sankaaSam 
KaaSyapeyam mahaa dyutim\ 
tamourim sarvapaapa-ghnam 
praNatou-smi divaa-karamW 

I salute the SUN who is like the hingula ('Japaa 1 flower), 
who is Sage Kashyapa's son, who is effulgent, who is the 
dispeller of darkness 1 and who washes off sins. 



(( jMine Planets^ ) (j9 

(&HANDRA (THE MOOnT^) 





dadhiSankha tushaa-raabham 
ksheero-daarNava sambhavam\ 
namaami SaSinam soumam 
Sambhour mukuTa bhuushaNamW 

I salute the MOON whose colour is that of curd, conch 
and snow, who emerged out of the Milky Ocean and who 
bedecks the tuft of lord Siva. 




20 



('Jaataka Chandrikaa)) 



(j<UJA (MARSf) 




dharaNee garbha sambhuutam 
vidyutkaantisama prabham\ 
kumaaram Saktihastam tarn 
mangaLam praNamaam-yahamW 

\ salute MARS who is earth's son, who is as lustrous as 
lightning and who holds the weapon 'shakti' in his hand. 



D 



Nine Planets ; ( 21 




CBUDHA (MERCURY) ^) 




priyangu kalikaa-Syaamam 
ruupeyNaa-pratiman budham\ 
sowmyam sowmya guNou-peytam 
tarn budham praNamaam-yahamW 

I salufe MERCURY who is dark like Panicum Italicum 
('Priyangu') bud, who is of peerless form, who is intelligent 
and auite-natured and who is the Moon's son. 




22 



Q 



Jaataka Chandrikaa 



( Tguru (jupiterD 




deyvaanaam cha risheeNaam cha - 
gurum kaanchana sannibham 
buddhi-bhuutam tri-loukeySam 
tarnnamaami brihaspatimW" 

I salute JUPITER who is the guru of gods and rishis, 
who is extraordinarily intelligent, and who is the lord of the 
three worlds. 




t> 



Nine Planets ) ( 23 




(^SUKRACVENUSP) 




hima kundamriNaaL-aabham 
daityaanaam paramam gururn \ 
sarva-Saastra pravaktaaram 
bhaargavam praNamaam-yaham 1 1 

I salute VENUS who is as bright as snow; the fragrant 
oleander Ckunda' flower) and the lotus stem, who is the guru of 
demons and who preaches all the Saastras. 




24 



('Jaataka Chandrikaa 



( ^SANl (SATURnP) 




neel-aanjana samaa-bhaasam 
ravi putram yamaagrajam \ 
Chaayaa-maartaaNDa sambhuutam 
tarn namaami SanaiScharamW 

I salute SATURN who shines like the blue mascara, 
who is the son of the Sun and Chaaya and who is the elder 
brother of Yama. 



Uj^Jine Planets^) 

(RAAHU (NORTH NODE|) 




25 




ardha-kaayam mahaa-veeram 
chandr- aaditya vimardanam I 
simhikaa-garbha - sambhuutam 
tarn raahum praNamaam-yahamW 

I salute RAAHU, who has half-body, who has valour, 
who opposes the Sun and the Moon, and whose mother is 
Simhikaa. 




26 



('Jaataka Chandrikaa 



(j<ETU (SOUTH NODE)") 




palaaSa-pushpa-sankaaSam 
taarakaa-graha mastakam \ 
roudram roudr-aatmakam ghouram 
tarn keytum praNamaam-yaham \\ 

I salute KETU, who resembles Butea Frondosa 
(Palaasa 1 flower), who is the head of stars and planets, and 
who is wrathful and fearsome. 



Nine Planets 



JAATAKA CHANDRIKAA 

fezi iftfcPF?i»igcg«g«ri^firaaigr^T: u 

vfc <>S^Jllclcil^ ^T^:, 3J5F: *I$pPiefo 




( Jaataka Chandrikaa 



Invocation: 

I pray to Goddess Saraswati, the worthy consort 
of Lord Brahmadeva, the Goddess who is red-lipped 
bearing the Veena in her hand, the symbol of the 
knowledge of the end of things, as stated in the 
Upanishads. ..1 

Following the Horaa Saastra of the Sage 
Paraasara, I describe to the best of my ability the 
planetary effects according to the Ududasaa. .2 

Details about the 12 Bhaavas commencing from 
the Lagna, Kendras, Trikonas and the division of 
Dasaa-Bhukti are to be learnt from other Saastras by 
wise men. Our scope is of a limited nature, and of a 
special kind. ..3 



The following table gives this out in detail. 



(f^ 



BENEFICS 




MALEFICS 




LAGNA 


Lord of 5 


Lord of 9 


Lord of 3 


Lord of 6 


Lord of 11 


ARIES 


Sun 


Jupiter 


Mercury 


Mercury 


Saturn 


TAURUS 


Mercury 


Saturn 


Moon 


Venus 


Jupiter 


GEMINI 


Venus 


Saturn 


Sun 


Mars 


Mars 


CANCER 


Mars 


Jupiter 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 


LEO 


Jupiter 


Mars 


Venus 


Saturn 


Mercury 


VIRGO 


Saturn 


Venus 


Mars 


Saturn 


Moon 


LIBRA 


Saturn 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Jupiter 


Sun 


SCORPIO 


Jupiter 


Moon 


Saturn 


Mars 


Mercury 


SAGITTARIUS 


Mars 


Sun 


Saturn 


Venus 


Venus 


CAPRICORN 


Venus 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Mercury 


Mars 


AQUARIUS 


Mercury 


Venus 


Mars 


Moon 


Jupiter 


PISCES 


Moon 


Mars 


Venus 


Sun 


Saturn 



3 

CD 

ST 



w 



w 




Jaataka Chandri 




Aspects of planets: 

The Sun and the other 6 planets aspect the 
seventh house from their own place. In addition, 
Saturn, Jupiter and Mars specially aspect respectively 
the following places: 3 and 10; 5 and 9; and 4 and 8. 

(From this it is evident mat the author does not 
approve of the statement by some writers that all 
planets aspect the 7th, 3rd, 10th, 5th, 9th, 4th 
and 8th places.) ...4 

All planets 4f they are lords of .the 5th and 9th 
houses, bestow good influences; but if they happen 
to be lords of the 3rd, 6th and 11th houses, meet out 
only evil influences. 

The table on Page 3 clearly shows that the lords 
of the 5th and 9th houses are conferring good effects 
and the lords of the 3rd, 6th and 11th dispense evil 
effects to the native. 




C Nine Planets ^) (3*1 

5mRRT3lf^€r#?HTuir 

Further, it has to be noted that Aries, Cancer, 
Libra and Capricorn are moveable signs, Taurus, Leo, 
Scorpio and Aquarius are fixed signs, and Gemini, 
Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces are common signs. 

The planet in the 11th sign and the lord of the 
1 lth sign in the case of moveable signs, the planet in 
the 9th sign and the lord of the 9th sign in the case of 
fixed signs, and the planet in the 7th sign and the 
lord of the 7th sign in the case of common signs, the 
lord of the 22nd Drekkana (one third part of a sign) 
from the Janma Lagna Drekkana, and the lord of the 
sign where Maandi (Gulika) is in nativity are all very 
malefic, says a verse. Accordingly in the case of Aries , 
a moveable sign, Saturn the lord of the 1 lth and the 
planet posited therein; and Cancer, another moveable 
sign, Venus the 11th lord and the planet posited 



((32 J (Oaataka Chandrikalm 

therein; and for Libra Sun the lord of the 11th and 
.the planet posited therein, and for Capricorn, Mars, 
the lord of the 11th sign and the planet posited therein 
are all malefic. And if a malefic planet were to be in 
such an evil position the evil effects are*aggravated. 



Likewise for a fixed sign like Taurus the lord of 
the 9th Saturn and the planet posited therein; for Leo 
the lord of the 9th Mars and the planet posited therein; 
for Scorpio the lord of the 9th Moon and the planet 
posited therein; and for Aquarius the lord of the 9th 
Venus and the planet posited therein are all malefic. 
In a similar manner for the common signs: the 7th 
lord from Gemini Jupiter and the planet posited 
therein; from Virgo the 7th lord Jupiter and the planet 
posited therein; from Sagittarius the 7th lord Mercury 
and the planet posited therein; and from Pisces the 
7th lord Mercury and the planet posited therein are 
all malefic. 

From this it is evident that the malefic planets 
to these moveable, fixed or common signs, in 
whatever Bhaavas they may be, they cause only bad 
effects to these Bhaavas. For Aries, Saturn is 11th 
lord and he is malefic according to this verse. But 



Nine Planets ) 




according to the next verse (if malefics happen to be 
lords of Kendras, they become benefics), Saturn is 
lord of the lOtlito Aries. Thus it is obvious that Saturn 
is two-thirds malefic and one-third benefic to those 
bom in Aries Lagna. Further, according to another 
verse it has to be noted that a debilitated planet is 
timid and fearful, and hence if Saturn were in Lagna, 
which is Aries in this case, the native will be interested 
in lowly profitless actions, but afraid to do so openly 
and as Aries is an inimical house to Saturn, he will 
be hated by his enemies. There are thus so many subtle 
points to be noted with every sign and planet, and 
before starting predictions one has to take into account 
the nature of the Lagna, its malefic planets and lords 
of malefic signs and then draw conclusions. 

^is^jspi ?^ ucioi d*wlxw<n n £ n 
Planets in Kendra (1, 4, 7, 10): 

Benefics being lords of Kendras do not confer 
good. Malefics being lords of Kendras do not give 
evil effects. But all planets get stronger as they are 
further from the Lagna. Jupiter, Venus, waxing Moon 




C; 



Jaataka Chandrikaa 




and Mercury unassociated with a malefic are naturally 
benefics. If they happen to be lords of 1 , 4, 7 and 10 
they do not confer any good to the native. Similarly, 
Sun, Mars, Saturn, waning Moon and Mercury 
associated with a malefic do not produce evil effects, 
if they happen to be lords of 1, 4, 7 aid 10. In the 
degree of producing good or bad effects, the planets 
in a higher place are stronger than those in the lower 
places; that is, the good given by a benefic in the 9th 
house is greater than the good by the benefic in the 
5th house. In a similar manner, the evil brought by a 
malefic in the 6th house is greater than that done by 
a malefic in the 3rd house; and that done by a malefic 
in the Uth house is greater than that of the 6th. We 
can work out for all other cases too likewise: 

A benefic being the lord of the 4th house is more 
harmful than the benefic as lord of Lagna; that of the 
7th stronger than the 4th and, of the 10th stronger 
than all. A malefic being lord of the 4th confers more 
good than a malefic as lord of Lagna and so on. . .6 

Wlcll<*Ul^o3U3HcI: ifccWWwSt II tf II 



Nine Planets ) (35 

The lords of the 12th house and the 2nd house 
from the Lagna produce their good or bad effects in 
accordance with the nature of the lords of Bhaavas 
corresponding to their good or bad positions in 
relation to the Lagna. 

Example: 

Let us take Aries as the Lagna. Jupiter and Venus 
are lords of 12th and 2nd. As Jupiter is lord of the 
9th he is considered as a benefic. As Venus is also 
lord of the 7th, and according to another verse , the 
Kendra's lordship is malefic to Venus , the 7th place 
is an evil position. Being lord of an evil place, Venus 
will produce only bad effects to the native. 

The evil effects produced by the lords of 12th 
and 2nd houses from Lagna are determined by the 
planets in the 3rd, 6th, 8th and 11th places, or the 
lords of the 3rd, 6th, 8th and 11th houses, or aspected 
by them, or standing in their Kendras or Trikonas 
(quadrants ortrines). 

Similarly the good effects produced by the lord 
of the 12th or 2nd house from Lagna are determined 




(^Jaataka Chandrikaa 



by the planets in good Bhaavas, namely, 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 
9 and 10th houses, or being associated with their lords, 
or being aspected by the lords of being posited in 
their Kendras or Trikonas. ...7 

^njs spRicEncir craisftsftsft 3k*w^ 11 c 11 

The lord of the 8th house, being the 12th to 9th, 
which is the house of the lord of fortune, does not 
confer good. But if the same lord of the 8th happens 
to be in Lagna, then he confers good. 

Usually, the lord of the 8th is the destroyer of 
fortune being 12th to 9th, the lord of fortune. Being 
lord of the Lagna, however, he confers fortune, not 
as the lord of the 8th. But this is applicable only in 
the two cases of Mars, being lord of Lagna and so of 
the 8th; and Venus lord of Lagna and also of 8th. 

..8 



Q 




Nine Planets^) (37 



Jupiter and Venus are veiy harmful as lords of 
Kendra (quadrants). If in addition, they happen to be 
in r Maarakasthaana' (death- inflicting positions) they 
are very powerful. ..9 

^^src^tw^^rf^c^ai^rf^n so II 

Jupiter and Venus are very harmful as lords of 
Kendra; Mercury is next in power to the above 
(Jupiter and Venus) as lord of Kendra. The Moon is 
next to Venus in strength in Kendra position. .. 10 

The Sun and the Moon are deprived of the 
harmful nature of the 8th position. Mars is not 
beneficial by virtue of being in the 10th place, but by 

being lord of a Kendra position. 

■ 

In addition to the harmful nature of Jupiter and 
Venus as being lords of the Kendra position, they are 
more powerful if they are in Maaraka-sthaana, that 
is, 2nd or 7th place they become 'Maarakas* (death- 
inflicting planets). 



38 ) lOataka Chandrikaa 

For those bom in Gemini or Viigo as Lagna, 
Jupiter is harmful wherever he is posited. For Gemini 
born, Jupiter is lord of 10th and for Virgo, it is lord 
of 4th and 7th — all Kendra positions. He becomes 
Maaraka, if he is in Sagittarius (7) for Gemini-born 
and in Pisces for Virgo-bom. 

Likewise, for Sagittarius and Pisces born 
persons, Mercury is respectively lord of the 7th and 
10th and 4th and 7th places (Kendra positions) aid 
therefore harmful, not so powerful as Jupiter. 
Similarly for Capricorn-bom, the Moon is lord of a 
Kendra (Cancer) and it is harmful, although less 
powerful than either Mercury or Jupiter. 

The Sun and the Moon are the lords of Stfrfor 
Sagittarius and Capricorn bom respectively and they 
are not harmful at all. For Cancer born, Mars is lord 
of 5th and 10th and is beneficial; on the other hand, 
for Aquarius born, Mars is lord of 3rd and 10th and 
is harmful. ..11 

<!W*lIcU>i<il mft UU^l^^cft I 
dcdc^rtlR JT5cft uR&di cMlUld II ?S II 



K^Nine Planets^) (39 




RaahuandKetu: 

The Chhaayaa planets, Raahu and Ketu, give 
the effects, good or bad, in an increased measure 
according to the Bhaavas in which they are situated 
or the lords of Bhaavas with whom they are 
associated. Although Raahu and Ketu do not have 
special ownership of any sign of their own, they 
increase the power and influence of any planet with 
which they are associated, or the lords of the signs 
where they are posited or aspected by any planet. If 
they are associated with more than any single planet 
in any sign, they increase the influence of the more 
powerful of the planets congregated there. 

..12 

3ci^!4>!iTi>lS$ fM<M>c4<iW<t>l: II S3 II 

If the lords of Kendras and Trikonas (quadrants 
and trines) happen to be in the same sign in transit, 
or mutually aspect each other or aspected singly, and 
if they are not aspected or associated with any of the 
other lords of houses 3rd, 6th, 8th and 11th they 
bestow increased good effects. 



40 ) ( Jaataka Chandrikaa 

From this it is evident that in case the lords of 
Kendras and Trikonas happen to be associated with 
any of the malefics in the 3rd, 6th, 8th or 11th, the 
good effects will be normal and not increased. 

Taking an example: 

The Sun and the Moon for Aries, the Sun and 
Saturn for Taurus, Mercury and Venus for Gemini 
(as Venus is not the lord of the 3rd, 6th 8th and 1 1th), 
the Moon and Mars for Cancer, the Sun and Mars for 
Leo, Venus and Jupiter for Virgo, Saturn and Mars 
for Libra, Jupiter and Sun for Scorpio Jupiter and 
Sun for Sagittarius, Saturn and Venus for Capricorn, 
the Sun and Venus for Aquarius and Jupiter and Mars 
for Pisces are the lords of trines unaffected by the 
lords of 3, 6, 8 and 1 1 . Hence if these planets are not 
affected by the lords of 3, 6, 8and 1 l,they will confer 
increased good effects to the person. ...13 

RAJA YOGAS 



Nine Planets y (41 

The lords of nines and quadrants if powerful, 
although rendered weak by occupying defective signs, 
if posited in the same sign or aspect each other confer 
Raaja Yoga benefits. 

As the 9th and 10th signs are regarded as 
excellent, the lords of these Raasis are called the lords 
of Dharma Karma. Even if they occupy defective 
signs, by the mere virtue of their being together or 
aspecting each other, they confer Raaja yoga. From 
this one can infer that the Raaja Yoga features can be 
determined by looking at the lords of Dharma Karma. 

q^paiScgcRt gift ci^aldicfrH^ n ?<« n 

If the lords of the 9th and 10th signs exchange 
places or if any one of them happens to occupy either 
the 9th or 10th sign, the person enjoys Raaja Yoga. 
..15 

Ete^taite^ i 

i>c$iciifiirNi dlcidl «^rf%^?&?r^ ii se ii 

If the powerful lord of a quadrant i.e. the lord 
of Karma (10th house) is associated with any of the 



42 ) ^"jTjataka Chandrikaa 

lords of trine s (5th and 9th), Raaja Yoga is enjoyed 
by the native. ..16 

Question: 

As it has already been stated in Sloka 14 that if 
there is a mutual relationship between the lords of 
trines or quadrants, there will be Raaja Yoga, by 
repeating the same idea in Sloka 16, is not the author 
guilty of tautology? 

Answer- 
There is a difference between the two Slokas. 
Whereas the first referred to the relationship between 
the lords of the 9th and 10th houses conferring Raaja 
Yoga, this Sloka is referring to the relationship of the 
lords of either the 5th or 9th with the planet posited 
in the 10th house. 

When a planet intervenes between the Dasaas 
of two Yogakaaraka planets, not in union with them, 
he produces good. Generally Raaja Yoga benefits 
accrue even during the sub-periods in those planetary 
periods. Good benefits result also when his sub- 
periods come in any other powerful planetary Dasaa, 



Nine Planets J 




??II^ TI^Oldd^^SlcMniUli^ || *V3 II 

Raaja Yoga comes during the Dasaa periods of 
planets, meaning thereby the lords of Dharma and 
Karma. A planetary period even when bad by position 
or aspect, becomes good when it intervenes between 
two powerful planetary periods by virtue of its lord 
occupying a middle position, between two well- 
situated planets. This is an intriguing Sloka that leads 
to several interpretations and we have given an 
explanation to this Sloka as far as we could understand 
it. ...17 



«F^xW^5uiR^^l*U>c4Jl % II ZC II 

Even evil planets, namely, lords of 3, 6, 8 and 
11, when in conjunction with powerful Raaja Yoga 
planets, also produce beneficial results in their sub- 
periods, according to their own intrinsic strength at 
the time. 



44 ) (^Jaataka ChandrikaaM 

Note: 

The lords of 3, 6, Sand 1 1 are called evil planets . 
For Aquarius, Mars is lord of 3 and 10; for Cancer 
Jupiter is lord of 6 and 9; for Gemini Saturn is lord of 
8 and 9; and for Aries, Saturn is lord of 10 and 11. 
Hence, it is found that for Aquarius the lord of 3 ; for 
Cancer, the lord of 6; for Gemini the lord of 8; and 
for Aries the lord of 11 are inimical + Therefore, 
according to the Sloka, if Aquarius or Cancer happens 
to be the Lagna, and their evil planets in 3 and 6, 
being associated with Yoga Kaaraka planets, i.e. Mars 
with Venus, and Jupiter with Mars respectively Raaja 
Yoga effects flow to the native during the Mars Bhukti 
of Venus Dasaa and Jupiter Bhukti of Mars Dasaa. 
Similarly to say that Raaja Yoga prosperity comes to 
the native with Gemini or Aries as Lagna during the 
Jupiter Bhukti of Saturn Dasaa or the Saturn Bhukti 
of Jupiter Dasaa, is not true. 

Particularly for Aries and Gemini Lagnas, the 
conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn does not confer 
Raaja Yoga benefits. 

One can infer that if even evil planets in 
conjunction with Raaja Yoga planets are producing 



(fjSline Planets") ^V) 

beneficial results, how much more good will be 
conferred, when benefic planets are in conjunction 
with Raaja Yoga planets, „.18 

The Chhaayaa planets, Raahu and Ketu, 
occupying Kendras or Trikonas and combining with 
other planets produce Raaja Yoga. 

Note: 

If Raahu and Ketu occupy Kendras and they 
are in union with the lords of Kendras or Trikonas 
they become beneficent. If they occupy Trikonas and 
are in union with the lords of Trikonas or Kendras, 
they produce good. ...19 

aeoft tbiumfcidi ^raefr ^ fib 53: 11 $0 11 

The conjunction of the lordship of the Kendra 
and Trikona in one planet produces Raaja Yoga. But 
when the lords of other Trikonas join the lords of 
Kendras, will there be any doubt at all of better 
results? 




46 



QJaataka Chandrikaa^j 



Note: 

There are some cases of Bhaavas whose lords 
are owners of both Kendras and Trikonas, when they 
confer Raaja Yoga benefits. For example for Taurus, 
Saturn is lord of 9 and 10; for Leo, Mars is lord of 4 
and 9; and for Aquarius, Venus is lord of 4 and 9 
these produce Raaja Yoga, Now, we have Saturn, 
Mars and Venus as lords of both Kendra and Trikona 
for Taurus, Leo and Aquarius respectively. If these 
planets were to have association with the lords of 
other Trikonas , better results would follow . . . 20 

Exception to Raaja Yoga: 

If the lords of the 9th and 10th houses become 
the lords of 8th and 11th houses, their conjunction 
with Yoga Kaaraka planets alone cannot ensure Raaja 
Yoga for the native. 

Note: 

In the previous Sloka it has been stated that the 
combination of the lords of the 9th and 10th houses 



(47 

produces very good Raaja Yoga benefits. The 
conjunction of the lord of 8th or llthhouse with Raaja 
Yoga planets is not productive of good, according to 
this Sloka. For example, to Aries, Jupiter is the lord 
of the 9th and Saturn the lord of the 10th. But Saturn 
is also the lord of 8th for Gemini and lord of 1 1th for 
Aries, Therefore, for the two signs, Aries and Gemini 
inspite of Saturn being a Yoga Kaaraka planet by 
virtue of its being in the 11th and 8th places 
respectively and even if Jupiter and Saturn have 
relations with the Sun who is the lord of Trikona for 
Aries, or with Venus, lord of Trikona for Gemini, no 
good results happen. ...21 

LONGEVITY 

3TSJI ^tl^^lGl<ttaHl<ifeyixi<l^l 

In the science of Astrology, the 8th place from 
the I^agna is called the House of Life. The 8th from 
the 8th house is also called the House of Life. The 
12th houses from the above two places are called the 
Houses of Death. 




(^Jaataka ChandrikaaS] 



Note: 

The 8th from the 8th house is the 3rd house; 
the 12th from the 8th is the 7th house; and the 12th 
from the 3rd house is the 2nd house. If the 8th and 
3rd houses are the houses of life, the 7th and 2nd 
from the Lagna become the Houses of Death. The 
author's intention in using the word 'api' (also) in 
the Sloka seems to imply that the 12th house is also 
the Maaraka (death) house. But there are some 
commentators who state that 2nd and 7th houses are 
'Maaraka sthaanas' and that 3, 8 and 12 are 'Kanda 
sthaanas'. ..22 

g^tfllcJ^ciaWlcil: Ull^cl^ci^ai: II 53 II 

Of the Maaraka sthaanas mentioned in the 
previous Sloka, the 2nd house is stronger than the 
7th in causing death; planets who occupy the 2nd 
and the 7th are stronger in inflicting death than the 
lords of 2nd and 7th; those who are in conjunction 
with the lord of the 2nd also become malefic. 




Nine Planets J) (49 



Note: 

The 2nd house from Lagna is thus a strong 
Maaraka Sthaana, and some commentators believe 
that the 7th house thus becomes a Kanda Sthaana. 
The lord of the 2nd house is therefore a Maaraka. 
Planets who occupy the 2nd are stronger than the 
lord of the 2nd; and the planets who are in conjunction 
with the lord of the 2nd are the most powerful in 
causing death. Similarly, the lord of the 7th inflicts 
death; but a planet who occupies the 7th is stronger 
than its lord and an evil planet in association with the 
lord of the 7th, is still stronger. These different 
circumstances must be weighed carefully by looking 
at the various sources of strength or weakness which 
the planets possess before prediction. ...23 

Death will take place at the periods of Dasaa 
Bhuktis of the planets in the 7th and 2nd houses from 
the Lagna; or of the planets who are in conjunction 
with the lords of the 7th and 2nd. If death does not 
happen then, if will be caused in the Dasaa Bhukti 
periods of the lords of the 7th and 2nd houses. 




50 



("jfaataka Chandrikaa^j 



PI ANFTfi AMD VARIOUS MFANfi 
OF DEATH 



NO. 


PLANETS 


MEANS OF DEATH 


1 


THE SUN 


fire, fever, bile or weapon 


2 


THE MOON 


cholera, and watery diseases 
like hepatitis 


3 


MARS 


fire, witchcraft, weapon or blood 






diseases 


4 


MERCURY 


anaemia and madness 


5 


JUPITER 


easy death 


6 


VENUS 


venereal diseases 


7 


SATURN 


diseases due to wind 


8 


RAHU 


leprosy, poison or smallpox 


9 


KETU 


accident, snake-bite or by enemy. 



Note: 

The above various means by which death comes 
to a person according to the different planets are given 
in Phaladeepikaa Chapter XTV, Verses 14 & 15. 

If the DaSaa periods of the evil planets 
mentioned above do not come to cause death, then 



Nine Planets 



D (3 



death may come in the DaSaa periods of planets, who 
are not Yogakaarakas but auspicious and who 
combine with the lords of death houses (7 and 2); if 
death does not happen then also, it is to be predicted 
in the DaSaa-Bhukti periods of the lords of the 8th 
and 3rd houses. 

Note: 

The lords of 3rd and 8th houses are called 
Aayush-kaarakas and not death-inflictors. It is only 
in rare cases when death has not happened with 
reference to the position of Maarakas, mentioned 
earlier, that prediction is made by referring to the lords 
of the 3rd and 8th. ...25 

^4cii<ii>ti Tmnm ?srrej feera wfoq. i 
<pcvlg{14 ^^mi *wcfc>iuii<ji<jste ii *s ii 

fn some other cases, when the periods of 
Maarakas are not occurring in time, the planet 
inauspicious in the horoscope will cause death at any 
time during its DaSaa period. 

Note: 

The inauspicious planet referred to is obviously 
the lord of the 3rd, 6th or 11th house. This is not a 
general rule, but only an exception. ....26 




J*ataka Chandrikaa 



g) 



3licl<^<wld^l^clf^ SractcT g ^I?R: II SO II 

Saturn is inclined to do evil by his conjunction 
with the Maaraka houses or those who have any power 
to cause death, mid hence will have more power to 
cause death than other Maaraka planets, ...27 

ol f%gtg: 'iidlxSH^f **<jgrai ^ajfrPJI 
3pnSJ3FJ5c5 <£UJl<Hlc<tt^lciI^Rd: H $C I! 

All planets do not give in their DaSaas or 
Bhuktis all the good and evil effects, that they are 
able to do by then positions , associations and aspects 
in the horoscope. 

Note: 

The effects, good or bad, enjoyed by the native 
in the previous DaSaa-Bhukti period, is continued in 
the DaSaa-Bhukti of the planet concerned. For 
example, if a person had passed through a very bad 
period at the end of Saturn DaSaa, the next Mercury 
DaSaa too will be bad. Although the Mercury DaSaa 
is stated to be a good period, the Mercury Bhukti of 
the Mercury DaSaa seems to be as bad as the previous 
Saturn period. Similarly, the man who had 



6 



Nine Planets ) ( 53 



j 




experienced good in the Jupiter period continues to 
have a good period in the next period of Saturn Bhukti 
in Saturn DaSaa. It is stated: "If in its own Bhukti of 
any DaSaa period, beneficial effects flow, the rest of 
the Bhuktis will be devoid of good, and 'vice versa' , 

...28 

£l*Wioci<£«lw£* f^€lfacT ^R€n *Ec5^ II 3* II 

All planets who are associated with or aspected 
by the lords of the DaSaa now running and planets 
who are otherwise similar in strength to the lords of 
the DaSaa give similar results as the lords of the DaSaa 
themselves in their Bhukti periods. 

Note: 

In judging of the planetary influences in their 
DaSaa periods and Bhukti periods and all other minor 
divisions, one has to bear in mind the various forms 
of strength and weakness which the planets have. If a 
planet occupies the house of another planet and the 
latter is the Lord of the DaSaa. Those who are also in 
conjunction with the lord of the DaSaa give results 
similar to his. Similarly, the owner of the house 
occupied by the lord of the DaSaa produces results 



54 ) (Oaataka ChandrikaaM 




identical to the latter. Other planets which are similar 
in strength or weakness as the lord of the DaSaa give 
the same results. 

If several planets are in conjunction with the 
lord of the DaSaa, in their various DaSaa periods the 
native enjoys similar results in the lord of a TrikoNa, 
the results that have to flow in its DaSaa period come 
to happen in the DaSaa period of a similar lord of 
another TrikoNa-lord. For example, take Taurus; its 
9th house lord is Saturn and the 5th house lord is 
Mercury, As Saturnhas to give full benefits to Taurus 
in its DaSaa period, they come to happen in the Saturn 

4 

Bhukti of Mercury DaSaa. Similarly, the bad results 
of the Jupiter DaSaa to Taurus (being in 8 and 11) 
come in the Jupiter Bhukti periods of Moon and 
Venus, the latter two planets being in the 3rd and 6th 
places from Taurus, ,,,29 

dtl^ldl^u^d^cilg^ll^ 8^xf>5 II 30 II 

In the Sub-periods of planet, who give contrary 
results to those of the lord of general DaSaa, the 
effects good or bad are to be inferred according to 
their nature. 



Nine Planets 



V 




Note: 

In the previous Sloka it was stated that in the 
general period (DaSaa) of a planet one has to expect 
its good results in the sub-periods of the planets who 
are with it, or who are equal to him. But there are 
cases of planets who are directly opposed to the 
influence of the Lord of the DaSaa and those who 
are partly disagreeable. Let us take the same example 
of Taurus. Jupiter, the lord of 8 and 11, the Moon, 
the lord of 3 and Venus the lord of 6 are in malefic 
Bhaavas. Hence instead of the good effects which 
have to flow in the DaSaa of Saturn, the lord of 9th 
and 10th houses, the bad effects of Jupiter, Moon 
and Venus are being suffered by the native in their 
Bhukti periods of Saturn DaSaa. Likewise are the 
effects of the DaSaa periods of other planets to be 

inferred. ...30 

• 

ft&calfil tot dl^<iHji«ic^5ft miMj^ 1 1 3* 11 

If the Lord of a TrikoNa (the 5th or 9th house) 
is not conjoined with malefics and is not powerless 
otherwise, during its DaSaa period good effects will 




(^Jaataka ChandrikaaM 



result in the sub-periods of the lords of Kendra (i, e. 
1 , 4, 7 & 10). Similarly too in the converse, i.e, if the 
lord of Kendra is not conjoined with malefics, during 
its DaaSaa period good effects will result in the sub- 
periods of the lords of TrikoNa. 

Note: 

The DaSaas of the lords of the 5th and 9th (lords 
of TrikoNas), it has already been stated, are good 
periods. But these lords may also be the lords of 6th, 
8th or 12th or other inauspicious signs, or may be in 
conjunction with evil planets, or may have malicious 
aspects, or may be weak. From this, it is obvious that 
the value of the planets who rule the TrikoNas in 
producing good is greater than the value of the planets 
who govern Kendras (1, 4, 7 and 10th houses). When 
the DaSaa period of the lord of Kendra comes and 
the Bhukti of a lord- of the TrikoNa intervenes, the 
results of the major lord should be strong and have 
no malefic associations, to produce good during the 

Bhuktis of the lords of TrikoNas. ... 31 

* 



Nine Planets 



^ 

j 




. RAAJA YOGA BHUKTIS 

In the DaSaa periods of Raaja Yoga Kaaraka 
planets, very good effects commence; such a 
beginning of Raaja Yoga is continued in the Bhukti 
periods of evil planets (i.e. the lords of 3, 6 and 1). 

Note: 

In the commentary on the Chandrikaa too it is 
reiterated that the lords of Bhuktis, even though 
malefic, do not interrupt the good effects commenced 
in the DaSaa periods of benefits (Raaja Yoga 
Kaarakas) but continue the same. 

The intention of the author seems to be that the 
Raaja Yogas effects are not checked by evil planets 
(i.e. the lords of 3, 6 and 11) but only continue and 
not as stated by some, that the effects are increased 
or augmented during the Bhukti periods of malefics. 

..32 

g3irtflcc^<Hc3oi dM^e>4le>lcblfeuil<^ II 33 II 




c 



Jaataka Chandrikaa 



Good planets in conjunction with the Raaja 
Yoga Kaaraka planets give success in their Bhukti 
periods. But benefics, not in conjunction with the 
Raaja Yoga Kaaraka planets, give moderate success 
in their Bhukti periods. Independent Yoga Kaaraka 
planets do not give Raaja Yoga benefits in their 
Bhuktis, when they are in conjunction with benefics, 
(That is, the effects are lessened.) ...33 

Planets which are disposed to give Raaja Yoga 
will confer the benefits in their Bhukti periods during 
the DaSaa period of beneficial planets, although they 
are not associated with them. 

Note: 

The Bhukti period of a well - situated planet 
will give success in the general DaSaa period of a 
planet with whom he is not associated. ...34 



Nine Planets ) 




When Raahu and Ketu occupy favourable 
houses and are not in conjunction with any other 
planet, they give success in their respective Bhuktis, 
according to their relative strength. 

Note: 

By the 'favourable' houses is meant obviously 
the TrikoNaas: the 5th and 9th. ...35 

*p3;'lUlW?c4<il: dc^ctgW 9g5H: II 36 B 

If the lords of DaSaas are evil, and the lords of 
the Bhuktis are unconnected with them but favourable 
in character, they produce only evil in their sub- 
periods. If the favourable lords of Bhuktis are 
connected with the evil lord of the DaSaa, they 
produce mixed results during their sub-periods. But 
if powerful Raaja Yoga Kaaraka planets are not in 
conjunction with the malefic lord of the DaSaa, they 
produce most unfavourable results during their Bhukti 
periods, ...36 & 37 




( Jaataka Chandrikaa 




During the DaSaa of a Maaraka (death- 
inflicting) planet, death does not take place in the 
Bhukti of a favourable planet, although in conjunction 
with the Maaraka planet. But death comes in the 
Bhukti of a malefic planet, although it is not in 
conjunction with the Maaraka planet. ...38 

During the DaSaa periods of the Sun and Venus, 
they give the good or bad results in an increasing 
measure inversely when their Bhuktis are in progress. 

Note: 

Whether the Sun is benefic or malefic, during 
its DaSaa whatever effects good or bad it has to give, 
is given by Venus in its Bhukti. Similarly, in the Venus 
DaSaa, its effects are given by the Sun during its 
Bhukti. ...39 



Nine Planets") C^J) 

In a similar fashion, during the DaSaa periods 
of Saturn and Venus, they give the good or bad results 
in an increasing measure inversely when their Bhuktis 
are in progress. ..40 

BENEFIC OR MALEFIC PLANETS 

dtisWci^mfri <4>A01<i ftc£U<n£ II v? II 

In accordance with what has already been 
explained before, we shall now speak of the different 
good and evil aspects which the planets give in the 
zodiacal sign from Aries onwards. ..41 

3ic? 3te fiaai: mux gjsft oj*R<4i<t>^l I 
oifjtf *fi<swilAui n§lixttfifc«Q<Mll: u*$ n 

I.Aries: 

A person born in Aries Lagna has Saturn, 
Mercury and Venus as malefics. Mercury and Venus 
are benefics. The simple combination of Jupiter and 
Saturn produces no beneficial results. ...42 

iHccJ c&l oQcfcW UWc4<uft Ri<sfcifti I 
*f^^dlt{llfccl^ccH ^lc<HW*c£d c5fe: II *3 II 




r Jaataka Chandrikaa 




But on the other hand, Jupiter, when combined 
with Saturn, not only does not give good but actively 
produces evil, Venus (by owning 2nd and 7th houses) 
called a Maaraka becomes a death-inflicting planet. 

....43 

Saturn, Mercury and Venus are Maarakas to 
Aries-bom. Bearing all these factors in mind, one has 
to give predictions for those born in Aries. 

...44 

2. Taurus: 

To a person born in Taurus Lagna, Jupiter, Venus 
and the Moon are evil planets; Saturn and the Sun 
are good planets. Saturn alone is capable of giving 
Raaja Yoga to the person bom in Taurus. ..45 

ofl^Wal ggl; mqi; Erfgft m^cfrdflUll : I 



Q 



Nine Planets ) 




Maarakas like Jupiter, Venus and the Moon will 
kill the native bom in Taurus during their respective 
DaSaas and Bhuktis. ....46 

3. Gemini: 

Mars, Jupiter and the Sun are evil to one bom 
in Gemini Lagna. The only benefic is Venus. The 
combination of Jupiter and Saturn produces the same 
results as in Aries. ...47 

cue? «iRi%ccjds$^i^iicmIiici^c<icJ4 i 

Saturn has no Maaraka power. Mars , Jupiter and 
the Sun have the characteristics of a Maaraka and are 
death-inflicting. ..48 

4. Cancer: 

To one born in Cancer Lagna, Venus and 
Mercury are evil planets. Mars and Jupiter are 




Qatrt. Chandri^ 



benefics. Venus alone is capable of directly giving 
benefits to the native. ...49 

The Sun is Maaraka. Other planets may turn 
out to be Maarakas; and hence astrologists must judge 
of these results carefully. ...50 

JHiMdWibiui el SJHcpTfpF^t : II <*? II 

5. Leo: 

To one born in Leo, Mercury and Venus are evil; 
and Mars alone is a benefic. The combination of Mars 
and Venus alone will not produce Raaja Yoga. 

...51 

?rfccl \£1^41<i4: nniT: dc<Jci$lUlc$$EII: I 
T$£ Lbtf I& ^4lf^ I&gulc4 <HcH[^I^ : ||<*$ || 

Mercury and other evil planets with the 
characteristics (lakshaNas) of a Maaraka turn out to 
be Maarakas. ..52 




Nine Planets,) (v65 



Hisftc^dl^ 3I^?li <iiWlcfc>K<£l || c, 3 || 
filed" UlUl: tbrilc<iplcdl4^c^l^r^^: || <«y || 

Mars, Moon and Jupiter are evil planets to one 
born in Virgo Lagna. Venus alone is a benefic. 
Although Venus is lord of the 2nd house, he is not a 
Maaraka. But Mars, Jupiter and Moon are Maarakas. 

..53 & 54 

7 Libra: 

To one bom in Libra, Jupiter, Sun and Mars are 
inauspicious. Saturn and Mercury are productive of 
good. The combination of Moon and Mercury 
produces Raaja Yoga. ...55 

jpafrellf?<l ufkUil: ^ «Hl«M?c4itf «il: I 
GfcgedW: ibrticici§lldo!ilQlgc5Tgq:: H c,e || 



(Tgg j {Oaataka Chandrikalm 

Mars is not a Maaraka. Jupiter and Sun kill the 
person when possessed of Maaraka powers. 

...56 

8. Scorpio: 

To one bom in Scorpio Lagna, Mercury, Mars 
and Venus are inauspicious. Moon alone is 
favourable. The Sun and the Moon are the Yoga 
Kaarakas. ...57 

drlcU?c5lf^ Moio&i ^pl*«laJlGl:ll <*6 II 

Jupiter is not a Maaraka, though possessed of 
death-inflicting powers. Mercury, Mars and Venus 
cause death when they have power to do so. These 
are the results which must be carefully borne in mind 
in predicting about Scorpio. ...58 




(r^ine Planets^) ( 67 

9. Sagittarius: 

Venus alone is malefic to the Sagittariusborn. 
The Sun and Mars are productive of good. The 
combination of Sun and Mercuiy produces Raaja 
Yoga. Saturn is Maaraka. ...59 

Slldceilfii LheMe^S TilUulxW <HcAft[&: II £0 II 

Venus and Saturn when invested with death- 
inflicting powers kill the person bom in Sagittarius. 
Hence astrologists must judge of these results 
carefully. ....60 

jj>cduIW<y<W: TOT: %£t Wisfec^ | 
^loi4Utb>d^l$l^ i^dil^d: II £? II 

10. Capricorn: 

Mars, Jupiter and Moon are inauspicious to 
those born under Capricorn Lagna. Venus and 
Mercury are favourable. Venus alone is productive 
of RaajaYoga. ...61 




68 ) ( Jaataka Chandrikaa 



^ 




In conjunction with Mercury, there will result 
much happiness. Saturn is by himself not a Maaraka. 

...62 

SUdoUllcfc ^ ^4 Ibdlld dji^cicJld: 1183 II 

But Mars and other evil planets, with Maaraka 
lakshaNas, kill the native. Venus alone will give Raaja 
Yoga. ...63 

^M^ldM?^ £frl: (I) crf^c^t <^uld: II eV II 

11. Aquarius: 

To Aquarius-bom Mars, Jupiter and Moon are 
evil; and Venus alone is auspicious. The combination 
of Mars and Venus is Yoga-kaaraka. Although Jupiter 
is lord of the 2nd- he is not a Maaraka. ...64 

cl gcdWPd<eft<Hliai *W*cid f^f$R]I: | 
4dA<W?c41cidio^6Ul^ tidoicJld: II £<< II 

Mercury and other evil planets, invested with 
death - powers kill the native. Hence astrologists must 
judge of these results carefully. ...65 



c 



Nine Planets ) ( 69 



U 




12. Pisces: 

Saturn, the Sun, and Mercury are evil to those 
born in Pisces Lagna: Mars and the Moon are 
benefics. Mars and Jupiter produce Raaja Yoga. Mars, 
although lord of the 2nd, is not a Maaraka. ...66 

Saturn and other evil planets kill the Pisces-bom 
when they possess Maaraka powers. The learned in 
the science of Astrology must try to understand the 
results of the planetary influences in this way for 
persons bom in the various Lagnas mentioned above. 

...67 

The acquisition of wife and children being of 
an auspicious nature, they are conferred during the 
DaSaa and Bhukti periods of benefics. ...68 




7(P) 



<="=ft 



LbeJlRl <WlM ^<!l[?d Jicfll^Ol: | 

By the position and movement of planets one 
can only indicate the broad outlines of good or bad 
effects which lie in the womb of Time but who , except 
Brahma, can certainly say what will happen? ... 69 

^c>U^{^c^ftbi!lPd^cl4«llGllJlcil<>IJi II V30 II 

Although at the time of birth the horoscope 
indicates several Raaja Yoga features, of what avail 
their possibilities, if the DaSaa periods of those 
benefics do not occur in one's life-time? They are 
fools living on false hopes like Kashmir donkeys who 
carry saffron bundles. ...70 

mfe^<yigi^*u£*ici srfcr fib *Ec53£ i 

drtcic^ spilcll x[ tEcI c5§£cl <£l£Rl^ II 0? II 

When the Sun and other planets become malefic 
by virtue of their positions in the zodiac, and their 
relationship to the Lagna, even in their exaltation they 
cannot do any good. But benefics in exaltation and 
in their strength sometimes do good. ...71 




Nine Planets J (71 

VARIOUS KINDS OF MATCHING 
f%$ <JIUI q*l josfc?fl4Uf ^ilGtea *T I 

The matchings are of different kinds such as 
matching with regard to 

(i) Dina (ii) GaNa (iii) Maahendra (iv) Stree 
Deergha (v) Yord (vi) RaaSi (vii) Lord of RaaSi (viii) 
VaSyam (ix) Rajju (x) Vedha and (xi) NaaDi. 

.,.1 

$*W*foi V oi«Hl41«ii gel: TJ3: II 3 II 

Commencing from the birth star, the nine stars 
are successively named: Janma, Sampat, Vipat, 
Kshema, Pratyara, Saadhaka, Vedha, Maitram and 
Parama-maitram. Likewise are the successive stars 
of Anu-Janma and Tri-janma stars. ...2 

ft-lfrtWiHdl: TOI: fifcaicdil-SBII-WZrai: I 

^-ug-^an: £«wtiw<w^ ferai aim: 113 n 

Of these 9 stars, as the Vipat, Pratyara and Vedha 
are the 3rd, 5th and 7th stars, they are evil. The stars 
2nd, 1st and 8th are of middling value. The 6th, 4th 
and 9th are the best stars. ...3 




Ci 



Jaataka Chandrikaa 




. DINA MATCHING 
«*dw sj« flfcfc R<4<^d nzH&xt ii y n 

In determining the matching of bride and groom 
for marriage: commencing from the girl's star up to 
the groom's in counting, if the result is an even 
number, the matching is good. 

Note: 

In the three divisions Janma, Anujanma and 
Trijanma, counting has to be done from the girl's star 
up to the groom's. The first star brings death to the 
couple; the second affection; the third danger; the 
fourth happiness; the fifth affliction; the sixth cattle 
development; the seventh disease; the eighth progeny 
and the ninth decrease of friendship. This varga is 
called 'day-matching' in marriage affairs. 

From the bride's Janma star to the ninth is called 
the first Paryaayam; and from the Anujanma star up 
to the ninth is called the second paryaayam; and from 
the Anujanma star up to the ninth is called the second 



c 



Nine Planets ) ( 73 



J 




paryaayam; and from the Trijanma star up to the ninth 
is called the third Paryaayam. If among these stars 
the groom's star comes as 2nd, 4th, 6th or 8th, 'the 
day-matching' is stated to be good. 

If the groom's star happens to be the 27th and 
in a different RaaSi, the 'day-matching' is not there. 
If the couple's stars happen to be the same and are in 
different RaaSis, the man's star in one, and the girl's 
star in the succeeding RaaSi, it is an excellent match. 
If, however, the two stars are in the same RaaSi, but 
the man's precedes the girl's it is a good match. 

If the groom's star is the 27th to the girl's but 
the two stars are in the same RaaSi, it is a good match, 

3L*& 4<HRllilg*cft Veiled ywiijcicT^ I 
3bwWUl^<ic<U ^ ^<WlUU*M£ciI: II q II 

(ii) GaNa Matching: 

The stars ASwini, MrigaSira, Hasta, Swaati, 
Pubba, Punarvasu, Anuraadhaa, SravaNa and Revati 
belong to DevagaNas. ....5 




70 



(^Jaataka ChandrikaaM 



ijjifaw «i5dift suitor oiuw^d: neii 

BharaNi, Aardraa, RohiNi, Uttara, 
Uttarabhadra, Pubba, PoorvaashaaDhaa and 
Poorvabhadra are human GaNas. ....6 

f%5II* <£t*IW<&UJJtf ft%LL*ttlddHcbl ; | 

The stars Chittaa, AaSleshaa, Makha, Moola, 
ViSaakhaa, Satabhisha, DhanishThaa, Krittikaa, and 
JyeshThaa are Raakshasa GaNas. ....7 

If the girl's star belongs to the Raakshasa GaNa 
and the boy's to DevagaNa, there is no matching of 
GaNas. The converse case is good. The girl's 
DevagaNa and the boy's Raakshasa GaNa, is a good 
match. But if the man's star is beyond the 13th star 
from the girl's and even if hers is a Raakshasa GaNa, 
there is GaNa-matching. ....8 

U^^1^41<311'^cfUc^^U<^JJcn: II ?o II 



c 



Nine Planets ) ( 75 



O 




(Hi) Maahendra-Matching: 

If fion the girl's star, the boy's star happens to 
be the 4th, 7th, 10th, 13th, 16th, 19th, 22nd, and 25th 
there is good Maahendra matching. The couple will 
be prosperous. ...9 & 10 

(iv) Stree-Deergha-Matching: 

Count from the girl's star up to the boy's star; 
and if the boy's star comes after 13 stars, there is 
good 'Stree-deergha' matching. This will give a 
special benefit to the couple. Some commentators say 
that if the boy's star comes after the 7th star from the 
girl's, it is a good match. ...11 




r\ 



(^Jaataka ChandrikaaY) 



(v) Yoni-Matching: 

The following 27 stars have the following Yonis, 
it is stated: 





STAR. 


YONI 




STAR 


YONI 


1 


Aswini 


Horse 


2 


BharaNi 


Elephant 


3 


Krittikaa 


Goat 


4 


RohiNi 


Snake 


5 


Mrigasira 


Snake 


6 


Aardraa 


Dog 


7 


Punarvasu 


Cat 


8 


Pushyami 


Ram 


9 


Aaslesha 


Cat 


10 


Makha 


Rat 


11 


Pubba 


Bandicoot 


12 


Uttara 


Camel 


13 


Hasta 


Bullock 


14 


Chitta 


Tiger 


15 


Swati 


Buffalo 


16 


ViSaakhaa 


Tiger 


17 


Anuraadhaa 


Deer 


18 


JyeshThaa 


Deer 


19 


Moola 


Dog 


20 


Poorvaa 

shaadhaa 


Monkey 


21 


Uttaraah 












shaadhaa 


Cow 


22 


Sravana 


Monkey 


23 


DhanishTha 


Girl 


24 


Satabhisha 


Horse 


25 


Poorva 












bhadra 


Man 


26 


Uttara 


Cow 


27 


Revati 


Elephant 




bhadra 





...12 






^ jSline Planets ^) Cz3) 

dlcfcidi o!idrfWdlS52Rft trHIc3IU^ccilR4 

The following pairs are dead enemies: 

Cow mid Tiger; Elephant and Lion; Horse and 
Buffalo; Dog and Deer; Mangoose and Snake; 
Monkey and Goat; Cat and Rat. 

It is better to avoid these pairs in finding the 
Yoni-matching; not only among couples, but between 
kings and servants. ...13 

If the couple happens to have the same Yoni, 
they would be prosperous. There is no Yoni-matching, 
if the animals are deadly enemies. If they belong to 
different species, without enmity, the matching is 
moderate. ...14 

f^^ct>i<i^5:^a:^*iJict)i<jsrf^ii ?** u 



78 ) (^Jaataka ChandrikaaM 




(vi) RaaSi-Matching: 

Where the Moon is at birth in the zodiacal circle, 
it is called the RaaSi . First find out the signs where 
the Moon is in the boy's and girl's horoscopes. If the 
girl's RaaSi is 2nd to that of the boy and the boy's 
RaaSi is 12th to that of the girl, there will be death. 
But if the girl's RaaSi is 12th to that of the boy and 
the boy's 2nd to that of the girl , there will be longevity. 

If the girl's is 3rd to that of the boy and the 
boy's 11th to the girl's there will be sorrow. In the 
converse case there will be happiness. If the boy's is 
10th to the girl's and the girl's is 4th to the boy's 
there will be enemity; in the reverse case there will 
be much love. If the girl's is 5th to the boy's and the 
boy's is 9th to the girl's there will be widowhood; in 
the converse case, there will be increase of Paati- 
yratya. . 

If the girl's is 6th to the boy's and the boy's is 
8th to the girl's there will be loss of children. In the 
converse case, there will be many children. If in the 



Q 



s") 



Nine Planets ) ( 79 




girl's 7th RaaSi, there is the Moon in the boy's 
horoscope, there will be special happiness and 
prosperity. ...15, 16 & 17 

(vii) RaaSi-Lord Matching: 

The lord of Aries and Scorpio is Mars; the lord 
of Taurus and Libra is Venus; of Pisces and Sagittarius 
is Jupiter; of Gemini and Virgo Mercury; of Leo the 
Sun; and .of Cancer the Moon. Saturn is the lord of 
Aquarius and Capricorn. ...18 & 19 

Saturn and Venus are enemies of the Sun; 
Mercury; neutral; and others friends. For the Moon: 
the Sun and Mercury are friends, the rest are neutrals; 




<™a 



for Mars: Jupiter, the Moon and the Sun are friends, 
* 

Mercury is enemy, Venus and Saturn are neutrals. 
For Mercury, Saturn is friend, the Moon enemy, and 
the rest are neutrals. . ...20 

4$<i<3t*U ftidldA *&^<±t tfttfts^ c^3€H 
x£l<Ullc£f ?j$£t sraffc #^*v ^^3 &*il<i^ I 

For Jupiter: Mercury and Venus are enemies, 
Saturn equal, and the rest friends. For Venus: Saturn 
and Mercury are friends, Mars and Jupiter neutrals, 
and the rest are enemies. For Saturn; Venus and 
Mercury are friends, Jupiter neutral, and the rest are 
enemies. (More details to be found in our Brihat 
Jaataka or Predictive Astrology) ...21 

If the lords of the RaaSis of the boy and the girl 
are friends, the match is excellent; if neutral, 
moderate; and if mixed, one friendly and inimical, 
the match is bad. But if they are enemies , destruction 
will result. ...22 



((Nine PlanetsJ) 




81 



atomic^ g*^?^ic<Mct>^l ?fbra?zi^ i 

(viii) , Vasvam Matching: 

The following are 'VaSya' RaaSis: 
Rr 



Fot 



ARIES 


. Leo and Scorpio 


TAURUS 


.. Cancer 


GEMINI 


.. Virgo 


CANCER 


. Sagittarius and Scorpio 


LEO 


. Libra 


VIRGO 


. Gemini and Pisces 


LIBRA 


. Capricorn and Virgo 


SCORPIO 


. Cancer 


SAGITTARIUS 


. Pisces 


CAPRICORN 


.. Pisces 


AQUARIUS 


.. Virgo 


PISCES 


.. Aries ...23, 24 & 25 






ix) Rajju-Matching : 

Draw the following figure to represent the 27 stars: 



HEAD 



NECK 



LEG 



Mrigasira 



RohiNi 



WAIST Krittikaa 



THIGH BharaNi 



Aswini 



Aardraa 



Punar 
vasu 

Push 
yami 

Aasl 

esha 



Chittaa 



Hasta 



Uttara 



Pubba 



Makha 



Swaati 



ViSaa 

khaa 



Anuraa 
dhaa 



Jyesh 
thaa 



Dhanishthaa 



Sravana 
Uttaraa 




Shadha 

Poorvaa 
Shadha 





Sata- 
bhisha 



Poorva- 

bhadra 



Uttara- 
bhadra 



Revati 



# 



fa 



Oi 

*■* 
EU 
X" 
01 

O 

to 

3 

a. 

*t 

5c 



^ 




Nine Planets 



r-> 




If, according to the above Sloka, the matching 
of female RaaSis for male RaaSis, is 'attractive' 
(VaSyam) the couple will be very loving. Of the two 
RaaSis, if one is 'VaSyam 1 there will be moderate 
happiness between the couple. If neither is 'VaSyam' 
the marriage will only create constant bickerings and 
quarrels, 

<llft#l<il <fccfl^-Wl Ul<£*ilS6ciU<U II $^ II 

^^ trfcf arefr cfcc^ii ^% <J d^ll^f^ I 
^ltel?I3ltcci5^^I HI%^3THUia^ II 30n 

■ In the chart on the previous page if the girl's 
star and the boy's star come in the same line, there 
will be destruction; 

if they come in different lines, the matching will 
be excellent; 




84) <2 



Jaataka Chandrikaa 



if the two stars come in the top line, representing 
the 'head' , the husband will be killed; 

if they come in the second line representing 
'neck' , the wife will be killed; 

if they come in the 'waist * line, the child will 
die; 

in the 'thigh ' line, poverty will be the lot of the 
couple; and in the last line 'leg 1 , there will be 
wandering. ...27, 28, 29 & 30 



3I*^1g^ <!l<li$ri& gftg& SJjrfScI^t 4KclJJrl 
fefc^^HSSJRrfil^: 113? n 

(x) Vedha-Matching: 

The following pairs are called 'Vedha': 



6 



Nine Planets 








ASwini and JyeshThaa; BharaNi and 
Anuraadhaa; SravaNa and Aardraa; Krittikaa and 
ViSaakhaa; Swaati and RohiNi; Makha and Revati; 
Pushyami and PoorvaashaaDhaa; Punarvasu and 
UttaraashaaDhaa; Hasta and Satabhisha;Uttarabhadra 
and Pubba. Also are the stars MrigaSira, Chittaa and 
DhanishThaa. 

The boy r s and the girl's stars should not be of 
any such pairs, and if they are, it is called 'Vedha' 
matching. If without this matching there are other 
strong matchings with regard to VaSyam, Rajjuetc. 
it will destroy the couple. It is therefore essential that 
this matching should be carefully investigated into 
before any marriage is settled. ...31 & 32 

*gui tflkMWWl ft*U«WldicilIS<M : 1133 II 

!Jt441&»Ml: ntrM: fel% *A*L<iM*l: II 3V II 

tjgfHEUSI JJdl ^Bg*£l l|<4cf$ : I 
3^*^f *RI0to^Ml ^e^clldiuilr | 

tn^tl^t WJI Rlcc^ll 4uc^l*^HfttWdl II 3<<t || 




86 ) ( Jaataka Chandrikaa 



Q! 




(xi) NaaDi-Matching: 

The following 9 stars; Krittikaa, RohiNi, Swaati, 
Makha, AaSlesha,Revati, SravaNa.UttaraashaaDhaa, 
and ViSaakhaa are called 'left'-sideNaaDis; and the 
following 9 stars: Pubba, Chittaa, DhanishThaa, 
BharaNi, MrigaSira, Poorvabhadra, Anuraadhaa, 
JyeshThaa, and Uttarabhadra are 'middle'-side 
NaaDis, The remaining 9 stars Poorvabhadra, Moola, 
JyeshThaa, Hasta, Punarvasu, ASwini, Aardraa, 
Satabhisha and Uttaraa are 'right'-side NaaDis. If the 
boy's and girl's stars happen to be in the 'middle' 
side NaaDis, the husband will die. If the two stars 
are on either left or right side NaaDis, the wife will 
die. Hence, it is essential the stars of the boy and the 
girl are in different NaaDis. Those who believe the 
Saastras must put emphasis on the investigation of 
this 'NaaDi' matching, before settlement of the 
marriage. ...33, 34, & 35 

<5miann:ii 



<s 




NinePlanets) (87 



ENQUIRING INTO THE NATURE 
OF RAASIS, ETC . 

1. Raasi: 

If the lords of the (two) RaaSis of boy and girl 
-happen to be the same, or if the two lords happen to 
be friends, it is supposed to have 5 marks. Of the two 
lords, if one is equal and the other inimical, there is 
only 1/2 mark. If one is equal and the other friendly, 
4 marks. If one is friendly and the other inimical, 1 
mark. If both are equal, 3 marks. If both are inimical, 
no mark. There is, therefore, no matching if the two 
RaaSis belong to the inimical variety 1 

Ttugzi siswwmc^ xi vpmm&& 11 

2. GaNas: 

If the boy and the girl have the same gaNa, 6 
marks. If the boy is DevagaNa and the girl human 
gaNa, 6 marks. If the girl is DevagaNa and the boy 
human gaNa, 5 marks. If the boy is Raakshasa gaNa 




Jaataka Chandrikaa 



and the girl DevagaNa, 1 mark. But if the girl is 
Raakshasa gaNa and the boy DevagaNa or human or 
Raakshasa gaNa, no mark. ...2 

3.LordsofRaaSis: 

If benefics are the lords of the RaaSis of the 
boy and the girl, 7 marks. If both are malefics, Mends 
or neutrals, 4 marks. Anything to the contrary, 1 mark. 
If both the stars are of the same paada, no mark. ...3 

cn^fa&ajcg:. ^3^3iif3jun:, denial ^ra 
4. NaaDi: 

If both the NaaDis of the boy and the girl are 
the same, death will follow. If they are of different 
NaaDis, 8 marks. Hence if the two NaaDis are the 
same, alliance should not be made. ...4 



d 



D 



Nine Planets ) (89 




As the marks for colour-matching and Yoni- 
matching are insignificant, they are not given here* 

...5 

cicfesjaaigfc* II 

If the sum total of the marks comes to 20, the 
alliance is moderate. More than 20 is beneficial. Less 
than 20 is not favourable. 

If there is 'Dina' matching it gives long life. 

'Maahendra' matching gives children and 
grandchildren # . ..6 

S^ftcS ^Jiulkdl cj dlUld^d£c<Hdl£lftdl 

'Stree-deergha' matching gives long marital 
bliss. 

'Yoni f matching gives permanent prosperity 
'GaNa 1 matching keeps the couple ever young 
and happy, even as they grow old. „.7 




_ ^v 

(^Jaataka Chandrikcia^)j 



If the boy has real love for the girl, he should 
marry her. Love that springs from within is greater 
than all other matching characteristics. But this does 
not mean that one need not look into these eleven 
kinds of matching referred to above. What it signifies 
is only that even if by these matchings the girl gets 
more than 20 marks , supposing the boy does not really 
love her, marriage is futile. So matching of minds is 
essential, as important as other matchings, if not more. 

. ..8 

* 

If the lords of the RaaSis of the boy and the girl 
are the same or friendly or if the house occupied by 
the Moon in the girl's horoscope is exactly opposite 
(i.e. 7th) to the Moon's house in the boy's horoscope, 
this will cancel the inadequacies found in 'Rajju', 
'Vedha' , 'GaNa' etc, matchings, ,,,9 




Ni ne Planets^ ,) i91 

ABOUT MARS DOSHA 
%k czt^U QlclfcS mtkoL gis^r 

-^jJluii 3I^edi«lx^!lIc3I^mi<tKcll«lel^ II 

If at the birth of the girl, Mars is in the 2nd, 
12th, 4th, 7th and 8th houses, it will cause loss of 
husband; and likewise if in the boy's nativity too Mars 
is in such positions, the loss of wife is predicted. 

..10 

^iwicfc»-a<a£ tiWai^jfcflRui: n 

Astrologists say that the tragedy will happen 
during the DaSaa and Bhukti periods of Mars, when 
Mars is in the 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th or 12th place to Lagna, 
Moon and Venus. ...II 

ofl^dlilcb^lclIcJlclIddildftldmg^dllclJix!^!: H 

If Mars is in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th or 12th 
place in the boy's and girl's horoscopes, it is better 




92 ) (^Jaataka Chandrikaa 



than the Janma-Lagna, Moon-Lagna and Venus- 
position; the 'Dosha' is cancelled and the couple will 
have children, friends and enormous wealth and live 
long happily. But if it is so only in one of the 
horoscopes and not in the other, the person without 
the 'Mars-Dosha' will die. ...12 

ersi ?i«fr %vti rite> : g>«u*Wl *t ta£ u 

When Mars is in Aries, Cancer, Scorpio and 
Capricorn and they happen to be 4th or 7th place, he 
is said to be a benefic aid has no 'dosha'. As no 
definite mention is made whether such a situation is 
with regard to the boy's or girl's horoscope there is 
no need to consider 'Mars-dosha' in such cases. ..13 

If 4, 8, 12, 2 and 1st places happen to be 
moveable RaaSis, and Mars is posited in any of these, 
there is no Mars-dosha. But if the above places are 
fixed or dual RaaSis, Mars becomes a malefic and 
there is 'dosha'. ...14 



Nine Planets ) ( -93 




If there is 'dosha' because of Mars being in the 
above 5 places namely, 4, 8, 12, 2, and 1 but if Mars 
is associated with or aspected by Jupiter or Mercury 
the 'dosha' is cancelled. 

The above Sloka appears in some books^ in 
another version given below but the meaning is given 
taking that version also into account ... .15 

PROPITIATION OF MARS 

To ward off Mars - Dosha, PaaraayaNam 
(chanting) daily/every TUESDAY of the following 
should be done: 

a*W* 3Tc5I : n 
3l! 3R^T«ft 3i£lx»ck<Hgl<Hoi*21 — 




Q 



Jaataka Chandrikaa 



a*wctJl ^31, H3i anR^iRii^ie^^f 

oI§ fcif3«Ul<31:l 

(cP3g3M:) 3lsiK<fc>14 3IfHI«IT 331:1 
eRDft^ctra 3uf3teli 331: I 
i!rt><iWi^ 3ie?raiWli 331: 1 
•itbcltaloiia 3I3rftel«li 331:1 
eifibU'414 <*>f3f& cblS^li 331:1 

cp3fara3ra ^deicb^graii 331: 1 

(3H r 52ira:) 31£-U4>14 g<24M 331:1 
£RDft^3RI flR^ ?gi?I I 

^iwi^ flrsnt ^^ i 

srfrfJSRPi 3^ra^r 3ta^ i 
cpsf airasra a^ara ^ i 
ajafresjs^faf^er: i 

(£21133^ x»tWiI<*U3?ere 
#3F2\q^^33^l 






Nine Planets^) (95 

31*51: - 3l9i^stf f%%: cfc>c£>cURL: 

3lf 3RSI $ft 313- W* ^^f <H$l<H<rtW4 — 

3i^recpt %^cii i ar f%^, €i €ifife: 

? c£ld<fc, 3131 31si-Kcfc>U<ai3Ri«st?l3f 

^tf^I^41«3I:l 

(cWwUM:) 3TT 3I<g^I32li eJ3I:l 

3>3ItZreiI*3ri3OT:l 

3T: cb^ddcb^^BI^ri 53: 
(3U}-«*1M:) 311 g<Wl<U 331: | 




96 ) C Jaataka Chandrikaa 



Q 



31: 3R0WH *&$ ^RFxpRtfirfct f^cfa: 

<dlRi<fc>i £ srfrEfR: 
^tfrHlcfl gait m§ 

i 




Nine Planets 












Q 



Jaataka Chandrikaa 



3^ csrueicc^d ^3rqf^i«>ioii<i4: i 

fBdiefciuiJiltw^ i 

off sreg «& 31^-wcb^dl^ *di <h«i*!1 — 

staff 3Rf$:, 3[f^^c?:, 3HT^t%gRn 
3Tff :>hUlMUoiI#oI$ &&4U: I 








Nine Planets ) (99 




3P&t*HjfoEI: I 

^oi ^ «ifi^ cRzr era niHt^Ri«ra3^ i 
(nrfife) 3i#w* <h$^l asracaitbdodci i 
^ats^ & 3Rrr«t^3jdi35i|j tarem i 




100) ( Jaataka Chandrikaa 



Q 



^i^cfiE f&uai&fci secret tra^t ^gi i 
g^ts?^ <H4iylti <£uwii?j Mtas i 

3^^ 4gldul: <i^<il^cl ftUlftxi; I 

afemicfeccti iroats &a otgiuu^f cgfts?g & u 



CNine PlanetsJ) 




101 



3lS'l*cpi^n*&d<41<Hl4fet : I 



33 jnnanaira sob 

3fi 3^3Ic5TS 5PI: 
3lf <H^lc6U<*l<!i 33£ 
3ff<H5rffcEIcI3I: 
3ff 3T?T£J2I2I 331: 

3ff<H£l3UlU33I: 
3lt HflH^I 33T: 
3lt JiMcIUlWl 33J: 

3ff 31UcfuM 331: 

3lfcg3IZI3H: 

33 dWd^GUiRfdW 331: 

31! ^UcQma 331: 

3$ 3J3IEI§nS 331: 

3ft ^ddl W1K1 331: 

3ft dsWh3H&»lJi< 

38 c&wm gat 

3Tf 4<&i4 33fc 
3ff $Rd^ 331: 
3ff<fl^WstW33I: 



3rfft3ira^ci^: 

3ff 3«bMd>*ilft0l gat 

3lf SUsMfifdW gET: 30 

3lt 3I«QuiLbcMW 331: 
3?f ^cTdfLbdiMWl 331: 
10 3S^cRT3IR^I: 

3ft3ta3RI3cI3£ 

3?f ©ftcbhMUi 331: 

3S3$Eraf§rasrei3333: 40 

3fi dcr<£l^<d<HlG^tti4 531: 
3?f cUW^&idJfceGiLKl 331: 
3lf <WicJUiUl gOT 
3fiwraRH33T: 
331: 20 39 <t>oiccbd<*> 3^114 331: 

2$i SMU W 33!: 

3fUip^33T: 50 

33 SWUIWldlfiWM clSf: 
3ft -aisOi^ 3^1: 




Q 



Jaataka Chandrikaa 



3fifliS^}rflMGro 
3ff*f*^41*toMcIH: 
3lf J^81cil^ct>14 eI3I: 

3ftg2fcKIcI3fc 

3ft<|:xttU^lcI3r: 

3ft ^^3M cJH: 
3S £fc!41gl4 35: 

3S6feireraraa» 

3ft sriTRJjStRRI 3&R 
3ft dll<b r <E>RI OTB 
3ft clQCk^^3T: 



3It dH^l£ci>HckI$IKI 331: 
3ft ^raiSf^rl^RI 33P 

3ft<jftw2ra2ra^3i: 

3ft^rf^3J^OM^3I: 
3ft3I^%33I: 
60 3ft 3KfW<t>M 331: 

3ft3ra??ft^€irsftSM^I: 

3ftoioil<&MeI3!: 90 

3ft ^fel^jn%€I^IR 331: 

3ft*J%oI3I: 

3ft ^ITOlft^aiZI M3I: 

3ft f?t^5lrf2[U-a<r^dW 535 
3ft SJ^ 331: 
3ft^&<l>U<!leI3!: 
70 3ff«gRI33I: 

3ftSJ&S$3I2IeI3I: 

3ft^srra?ra^ra: 100 

3ft ^T^^2lsfi€IRI 331: 

3ft3tenf^33i: 

3ft$Pfr$3FI33r« 
3ftsirT5ra:33I: 
3ftffel3ilt4UM^3I: 
3lS ^<HU<f 14 331: 
3ft?£2 s vQI§n433I: 

80 3ft^gfsfte^c3n^i^3i: II 



( GLOSSARY ) 



The number given within brackets indicates the page 
where the term first occurs: 

Anujanma (72): the 10th star from the birth stare.g for 
Krittikaa, the Anujanma star is Uttara 

Aayushkaaraka (51): the indicator of longevity 

Bhukti : planetary sub-period 

Brahmadeva (28): Brahma, one ofthe Trinity 

Chhaayaa grahaas: shadow-planets Raahu & Ketu, 
nodes ofthe Moon 

Conjunction (43): planets being in the same degree of 
longitude 

DaSa : planetary period 

Deva : divine 

Dina KuuTa (72): constellation agreement 

Dosha : defect; the nature of being malefic 

DrekkaaNa (31): one-third division of a sign 

GaNa Matching (73): temperamental compatibility 

Horaa-Saastra (28): name given in India to astrojogy; 
derived from the word 'Aho-raatri' meaning, day and night. 

Janma(72): birth 

Janma Nakshatra : birth star 

KanDa-sthaana (49): the 7th house from Lagna 

Kendras (28): quadrants; houses 1 , 4, 7, and 10 of the 
zodiac 



( (To4) f Jaataka Chandrikaa) ) 

Lagna : ascendant 
LakshaNas : characteristics 
Longevity : life-span; aayurdaaya 
Maahendra (71 ): agreement for prosperity 
Maandi (31): Saturn's son 
Maanusha : human 

Maaraka-sthaana (37): the 2nd and 7th from the Lagna; 
indicators of death 

Matching : agreement 

NaaDi (71): agreement of 'humours' or physical 
constitution 

Paryaayam (72): see page 72 

Paativratya : chastity 

Pralyara : see page 71 

Raaja Yoga (40): the benefits that will accure ordinarily 
to a king 

Rajju (71): agreement for duration and strength of 

married life 

Raakshasa : diabolical 

RaaSi : zodiacal sign 

RaaSi KuuTa : zodiacal agreement 

RaaSyaadhipati : lord of the RaaSi 
RaaSyaadhipati Matching (71): agreement based on the 
friendship or otherwise between the lords of Janma houses. 

Sthaana (48): position 

Stars : see page 76 for Complete list 



( f Glossary ) ,105, 

Stree Deergha (71): agreement for MaangaLyam or 
well-being of the bride 

Trijanma : 20th star from the birth star; e.g. 
UttaraashaaDhaa for Krittikaa 

TrikoNas (28): trines; houses 5 and 9 of the zodiac 

UDudaSaa (28): Nakshatra DaSaa, e.g. Ketu DaSaa 7 
years for ASwini, Makha and Moola 

Varga : division 

VaSyam (71): agreement for mutual attraction and 
magnetic control 

Vedha (84): affliction 

VeeNaa (28): an Indian musical instrument 

Yogakaaraka (44): planet bestowing luck or power 

Yoni KuuTa (76): marital harmony, conjugal felicity and 
progeny 

Zodiac : diagram of the zodiac used in astrology; it is 
divided into 12 equal parts known as the 12 signs or houses. 
(Each sign is named after a group of stars). 



( APPENDIX ) 

KNOW YOUR NAME ACCORDING TO 
MOON'S LONGITUDE 



Stars 


Quarters 
or Paadas 


Longitudes 


First Letter of 
the Name 


(1)Aswini 


1 
2 
3 

4 


0-3°20' 

3°20'-6*40' 

6*40-1 OW 

10 o 00'-13°20' 


CHU 
CHAY 
CHO 
LA 


(2)BharaNi . 


1 
2 
3 

4 


is^o'-ie^o 1 
-le^o'-scroo 1 

20 o G0'-23*20' 

23 o 20'-26 o 40 , 


LE 
LU 
LAY 
LO 


(3) Krittikaa 


1 
2 
3 

4 


26°40 , -30 & 00' 
30°00'-33 o 20' 

36 D 40MCrOO' 


AA 
EE 
U 
A 


(4) RohiNi 


1 
2 
3 

4 


40 o 00 , -43 c> 20 , 
43°20'-46 o 40' 

46°40 , -5G°Gcr 

50 o 00'-53 o 20' 


O 

VA 
VE 

vu 


(5) MrigaSira 


1 
2 
3 

4 


53°20'-56°40' 

56*4cr-60°oo' 

60°00'-63 c 20' 
63 o 20'-66°40' 


VAY 

vo 

KA 
Kl 


i j 
(6) Aardraa 


1 
2 
3 

4 


m°A0'~70' > OO l 
70 & 00-73°20' 
73°20'-76*4O' 
76°40'-60W 


KU 

KHA 

JNA 

CHA 



•*■ 



I (Appendix ^ 



®) 



Stars 


Quarters 
or Paadas 


Longitudes 


First Letter of 
the Name 


(7)Punarvasu 


1 
2 
3 

4 


80°00'-€3°20' 
83*2(r-BB*4ff 
B6°4(r-9Q Q(f 

90°00'-93 e 20' 


KAY 
KO 
HA 
HI 


(8) Pushyami 


1 
2 
3 
4 


93°20 , -96°40' 

96 o 40'-ioo°oo' 

100°00'-103 o 20' 

103 20 , -106 40' 


HU 
HAY 
HO 
DA 


(9) AaSlesha 


1 
2 
3 
4 


loe^o'-now 

110 o 00'-113°20' 
113 o 20'-116 o 40' 

ne^o-^o'oo' 


DE 
DU 
DAY 
DO 


(10)Makha 


1 

2 
3 
4 


120°00 , -123°20' 
123°20 , -126M0' 
126°40 , -130 o 00 l 
130°00'-133°20' 


MA 
ME 
MU 
MAY 


(H)Pubba 


1 
2 
3 
4 


133°20 , -136°40 F 

136°40-140°00' 
140°00*-1 43*20' 

^"ao'-ueMO' 


MO 

TA 

Tl 

TU 


(12) Uttara 


1 
2 
3 

4 


146°40'-150°00' 
150°00 ( -153°20* 
153 o 20'-156 o 40' 


TAY 
TO 
PA 
PI 


(13) Hasta 


1 
2 
3 
4 


160°00'-163°20' 

ira^o-ieeMO' 

166°40 t -170°00' 
170°00'-1 73*20' 


PU 

SHAW 

NA 
DHA 



(@> 



Qa^a C.a.^aa )) 



Stars 


Quarters 

or Paadas 


Longitudes 


First Letter of 
the Name 


(14)Chitta 


1 

2 
3 
4 


173°20-176 Q 40' 

^eMO'-ie^oo 1 
leow-iss^o 1 
163°20'.-186 Q 40' 


PAY 
PO 
RO 
Rl 


(15)Swaati 


1 

2 
3 
4 


leeMO-igcroo 1 
190 o oo'-193 20' 

193 Q 20^196 o 40' 
igSMO'^OO^O' 


RU 
RAY 
RO 
THA 


(16)ViSaakha 


1 
2 
3 

4/ 


ioo'oo'^s^S)' 

i08°IO-2D6°40' 
iOgMO'^QOQ)' 
Sl0^00-278 o a 4 


THI 
THU 
THAY 
THO 


(17)Anu 

raadhaa 


1 
2 
3 

4 


213°20 , -216°40' 
216 o 40 , -220°00' 
220°00 l -223°20 l 
223 o 20 l -226 o 40 , 


NA 
Nl 
NU 
NAY 


(18) JyeshThaa 


1 
2 
3 
4 


226°40 , -230°00' 
230 l, 00 , -233 o 20' 
233 o 20 , -236 o 40 , 
236°40 , -240 o 00' 


NO 
YA 
YE 
YU 


(19)Moolaa 


1 
2 
3 
4 


240 o 00 , -243 o 20 , 
243°20'-246°40' 
246 D 40'-250 o 00' 
250°00'-253 o 20' 


YAY 

YO 

NA 

61 


(20) Poorvaa 
shaaDhaa 


1 

2 
3 
4 


253°20-256°40' 

256°40 , -260°00 l 
260 o 0G'-263 & 20 , 
263 o 20 r -266 g 40 , 


BU 

THHA 

BHA 

DHA 



t f Appendix x ) 



®) 



Stars 


Quarters 
or Paadas 


Longitudes 


First Letter of 
the Name 


(21)Uttaraa 

shaaDhaa 


1 

2 
3 
4 


266 o 40 l -270°00 l : 
270°00 l -273°20 l 
273 o 20'-276 o 40' 
276 o 40 l -280°00 l 


BAY 
BO 
JA 
Jl 


(22) SravaNa 


1 

2 
3 
4 


280°00 , -283°20 l 
283 o 20 , -286 o 40' 
286°40 , -290°00' 
290 00'-293 20' 


JU 
JAY 
JO 
GHA 


(23) Dhanish 
Thaa 


1 

2 
3 
4 


293°20 , -296°40' 
296 o 40 , -300°00' 
SOOW-SOS^G' 

sos^c-soo^o 1 


GA 
GL 
GU 
GAY 


(24) Satabhisha 


1 

2 
3 

4 


aoe'MO'-aiow 

SIO^O^IS^O 1 
316 o 40 l -<320 o 00 , 


GO 
SA 
SI 
SU 


(25) Poorva 
bhadra 


1 
2 
3 

4 


320°00'-323°20 T 
323°20 , «326°40' 
326 o 40 , -330 o 00 , 

330°oo'-333°20' 


SAY 
SO 
THA 
THI 


(26) Uttara 
bhadra 


1 
2 
3 
4 


sss^o'-^eMO' 

336°40'-340 o 0G' 
340°00'-343°20' 
343 o 20 , -346 o 40 , 


THU 

SYAM 

CHA 

THA 


(27) Revati 


1 

2 
3 
4 


346 o 40'-350 o 00' 

sso'w-sss^o 1 
sss^o'-sseMO" 

356°40'-360°0Q' 


THAY 
THO 
CHA 
CHI 



f (tiq ) ( Jaataka Chandrikaa 

Note : TO FIND THE NAME SUITABLE TO THE 
FEMALE CHILD BORN OF MOON'S LONGITUDE 155°20' 

Refer to the Chart /The corresponding Star for 1 55°20' 
= UTTARA 3rd QUARTER 

The name begins with 'PA'. 

So, the child can be named 'PATRICIA' or PAARVATI. 



JAATAKA CHANDRIKAA Ends 
1 1 SUBHAM 1 1 



