ELEMENTS
OF

ASTROLOGY
BY

L. D. BROUGHTON, M. D.

" To deny the influence of the stars is to deny the wisdom and providence of God."
Tycho Brahe.

'"A most unfailing experience of the excitement of sublunary natures by the conjunctions and
aspects of the planets, has instructed and compelled my unwilling belief.'' John Kepler.

" Principles built on the unerring foundation of observations and experiments, must necessarily

stand good until the dissolution of nature itself." . Emerson.

Price, $ 1.50.

NEW YORK:

PUBLISHED BY THE AUTHOR,
68 South Washington Square.

v



ASTRONOMICAL SYMBOLS AND ABBREVIATIONS
OF

SIGNS, PLANETS AND ASPECTS.
SIGNS.

¥ Aries. =s= Libra.
8 Taurus. ttl Scorpio.

n Gemini. $ Sagittarius.

2p Cancer. Y3 Capricorn.
Si Leo. ^ Aquarius.
rrti Virgo. X Pisces.

PLANETS.
» Neptune. O Sun.
TJIJlT rClTcflilnliLiloc. $ Venus.
^ Saturn. £ Mercury.
2£ Jupiter. J Moon.
S Mars. © Part of Fortune.

ASPECTS.

(/ Conjunction, oo° Sesq. Sesquiquadrate, 135
-*- Semi-sextile, 3°° Bq. Bi-quintile, 144
Z_ Semi-square, 45° c? Opposition, 180
^c Sextile, 6o° P Parallel, =
Q Quintile, 2°

7 & Dragon's Head.
n Square, 9o° £5 Dragon's Tail.

A Trine, 120°

Degrees, o H Hours.
/

Minutes, M Minutes.
If

Second of Space, S Seconds of time.

One would think that people would ask the advice of some competent
Astrologer who has made thousands of observations, on such as marriages,
partnerships, commencing business, or laying a corner stone, etc., before
commencing these undertakings, especially when it can be proved by thou-
sands or even millions of instances, that when the planets at these events are
in evil positions for such undertakings, in 99 cases out of every 100, prove
unfortunate or disastrous to the persons undertaking them, that these people
would, in time learn to pay attention to such matters, but such is not
the case.

I will here state that I had intended devoting a certain part
of this work to "The Elements of Horary Astrology," also
"Mundane Astrology," " Medical Astrology," and "Astro-
Theology," but I shall have to defer these branches of the
science to another volume. I hope to follow the present book
with one on nativities, in the same method as the horoscopes
commencing on page 295.

Copyright, 1898, by L. D. Broughton. Entered at Stationers' Hall, London, England.

THE LIBRARY
BRIGHAM YOU:

PROVO.



L. D. BROUGHTON, Mc D,



CHART OF THE HEAVENS

FOR THE TIME OF BIRTH OF

Dr. L. D. BROUGHTON,

April 20th, 1828, at 10.00 A.M.,
Leeds, Yorkshire, Eng.



PREFACE.

Many of my readers may think I have devoted too much
space in these pages in answering the opponents of Astrology,
instead of giving all my attention to the teaching and illustra-

tion of the science, but as the opponents are in a great
majority in all Christian countries their influence is too im-
portant to be slighted.

Some years ago, when the Legislature of a Western State
enacted a law to suppress Astrology, the Philadelphia
" Ledger," in an editorial stated that the Legislatures would
not need to enact such laws if they would teach the people
to read and write ; therefore the only reason that I am an
Astrologer is because I can neither read nor write.

If some kind missionary, instead of going to teach the
heathen in China or in the wilds of Africa to read and write,

would devote some of his energy in teaching me, he would
forever stop me from prating about Astrology; besides, it

might be the means of saving my soul.

At the age of eighteen it was my misfortune to lose my
father, and I shall never forget how the minister of the

Episcopal Church which we attended, devoted a whole after-

noon, while my father lay dead in the house, in arguing and
trying to persuade my eldest brother to give up the belief

and practise of Astrology. There is little doubt that the

minister, in his mind's eye, saw my father's soul writhing in

all the agonies of the damned, and felt it to be his duty to

save my brother, if possible, from such torments.

The same minister, when talking to me afterwards, praised

the beautiful language in the forms of prayer in his church
prayer book, and said that '

' we not only ought all to pray
alike, and use the same set forms of prayer, but we ought all

to think alike on all religious subjects*"

In trying to compel every one to think and pray alike, the

authorities have tried, convicted, and executed in Europe,
within the last four hundred years, over eleven million heretics

and witches, including Astrologers, and they have not yet



IV PREFACE.

succeeded in accomplishing their object. If we estimate the
amount of money, time, and energy that it has cost the
people of those countries in hunting up, arresting, trying,
convicting, and executing these people, even if they had
succeeded in their object, would they not have paid too dearly
for their whistle? And if the governments and priests had
spent the same amount of time, money, and labor in teaching
the people useful knowledge, including Astrology, how much
further would the world now be advanced in civilization and
human happiness? Even if the priests and clergy had suc-

ceeded in compelling every person to think and believe alike

in religious matters, I should like to know how much better
we would be. Should we not, in that case, be taking rapid
strides backward to the dark ages, and to the hanging and
burning of witches and heretics? Would not human intellect

be shrouded in ignorance, superstition and bigotry?

A large number of these heretics and witches, including

Joan of Arc, have been placed on the calendar of saints, and
the people have built monuments to their memory ; but in

all history I have never met with a single instance where the
judges and persecutors of these witches and heretics have
been thus honored and immortalized. From our standpoint
the question natturally arises, who were the guilty par-

ties—those who were executed, or the persecutors and execu-

tioners?

My father had many friends on account of his Astrological

knowledge, and they often came to him for advice, but he
did not take money for it; he also taught a number of per-

sons the science, among them the late Frof. Lister, 'formerly

of Boston, afterwards of New York. My- father was a man
of extensive information, and to my young mind seemed to

be a walking encyclopoedia. I do not remember asking him
a question on any subject whatever to which he could not

give me a lucid and proper answer; but he always had one
saying when he got through, which I now repeat: "I am
getting old, my memory is failing me ; do not take my word
for it, but read and study for yourself."



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

TO THE STUDENT.
Besides writing- this book for the student's perusal and

guidance, I may possibly be of some assistance in advising
him as to other books on the subject which will be of advan-
tage to him while studying, in order to become proficient in
Astrology and be able to judge of the merits or demerits of
the science for himself.

One of the best books the student should read, and which is

most essential, is Claudius Ptolemy's " Tetrabiblos, " or four
books of Astrology. It is to the Astrologer what the Bible is

to the Christian theologian, or the text-book that all stu-
dents ought to study in order to become well versed in the
science. This work is over 2,000 years old, and it is said that
Claudius Ptolemy gathered and compiled all that was then
known on the ancient science of Astrology. Astrologers of
Europe and North America have generally followed Ptolemy's
system. We have a number of translations of Ptolemy's
Tetrabiblos from the ancient Greek, but Ashmond's transla-
tion is recommended as the best for English students. His
translation is an exceedingly interesting book. My first

reading of this work gave me more pleasure than any
novel I have read since. The translation by Mr. Walley
is a very good book, but is much smaller than Ashmond's
and not so interesting. Cooper's translation is also good,
but is somewhat complicated and difficult to understand. Mr.
James Wilson, who wrote and published the " Dictionary of
Astrology," made a very good translation, but I did not find
it as interesting as others. Mr. John Worsdale made a
splendid translation, but he appears too dogmatical and posi-
tive in many of his assertions ; in his translation he often uses
the expression, '

' in all cases whatsoever ;" but the student will
find when practising Astrology, that he will have to take into
account a number of planetary influences in order to arrive at
a true conclusion, and it is best not to be too positive in his
judgment of the influence of any one particular planet.

Worsdale's translation has never been printed,, and those
who have the book either had to copy it by hand, as I have
done, or else buy it at a very high price, as it is extremely
scarce. Sibley's translation is very large, published in three
volumes, and goes into many particulars, but he is often
unscientific or visionary. I look upon it as the least satis-

factory translation of Ptolemy of any that I have read.
There are other translations of Ptolemy which I have seen,
but the authors' names have slipped my memory.



VI ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

From the time of Claudius Ptolemy until near the twelfth
century, a period of over a thousand years, there appears to
have been no progress made in the science of Astrology
in western and northern Europe. After Rome conquered
England and nearly the whole of northern Europe, about the
commencement of the Christian era, Astrology, Astron-
omy, and nearly all the arts and sciences disappeared in
Europe, excepting such as church and monastery architecture,
sculpture, painting, working of precious metals to be used
in religious rites, etc. The people were shrouded in mental
darkness; ignorance and superstition spread everywhere in
these countries, and history gives us a period of a thousand
years of what are called the "dark ages." The people in
those times gave but little attention to anything but relics
and saints and the most groveling superstition ; all kinds of
learning, except such as appertain to religious rites, were
extinct, and for hundreds of -years there were numbers of
priests and bishops who could neither read nor write. In every
country where the Christian religion spread, the minds of
men became stunted, and the people became effeminate and
vassals to the priests and the lords of the manor. According to
common opinion, that ought to have been the Elizabethian
Age for Astrology; but Astrology, like all other sciences and
arts, disappeared from these Christian people in the northern
parts of Europe, and in England, Scotland and Ireland.

While the people in the above named countries were either
going naked or dressed in wolves' or bears' skins, the un-
christian Moors in Barbary and Spain, and in other parts of
Europe and Africa, were making rapid advances in refine-
ment and culture, such as architecture, astrology, astronomy,
anatomy, medicine, agriculture, and other arts and sciences,
but more especially in the sciences of astronomy and astrology.

Generally speaking, whenever and wherever civilization
has advanced in either pagan or Christian countries the
science of Astrology has always become popular. During
the time that Rome was at the height of its glory, and was
said to be the mistress of the world, we are told by the Rev.
Thomas Dick that the Romans were so infatuated with
Astrology and Astrologers that the Emperors issued edicts to
expel them from the capital, but without effect; and even
after they were expelled by a formal decree of the Senate,
they were so protected by the people that they still remained
in Rome unmolested. The same author tells us that this art

has been practised in every period of time, and in every
country in the world it is still practised; '* And in ancient
times Astrology ivas uniformly included in the list of sciences."



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. VII

During the time that Christianity was spreading in England,
Astrology was almost forgotten in northern Europe. The
Egyptians, Arabians, Chinese, Japanese, and the people
of the East Indies and the islands of Greece, were culti-

vating Astrology and Astronomy along with other sciences,
and the advance of learning generally, to a great extent,
during this thousand years of the "dark ages " in Christian
countries; although but few, if any, of their works ou Astrol-
ogy have been translated into English. I have only been able
to read a few translations from other languages.

But few astrologers were known in England after the
" dark ages " until near the 13th century. Among those few
were Roger Bacon and some monks, who studied Astrology
in their monasteries during this period, although but few of
their works have been handed down to us.

I can only bring to mind Placidus de Titus, an Italian
monk, of whose work I have a good translation by Cooper,
who translated Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos. It was published be-
fore the Copernican system of Astronomy was known, and it

has a very curious description of the seven heavens and the
Primum Mobile. Placidus was also a great believer in the
" Part of Fortune," it being, according to his theory, in some
nativities, the "giver of life." It is a very good book, but
expensive. I have several works which were printed in the
old English, or black letter, during the 16th century, or soon
after the invention of printing; it is hardly likely that
students will come across any of these, as they are very rare.

After the discovery of printing and the revival of learning
in Christian countries, especially in England during the
reign of Queen Elizabeth, a number of astrologers sprang
into existence, among whom was Dr. Dee, a very noted
English Astrologer, and physician to the Queen, who often
consulted him for astrological advice. There were a number
of other astrologers who became noted, and among the most
learned was William Lilly, who was consulted by Charles
the First and the leaders of the Revolutionary Parliament.
He gave a great impulse to the science of Astrology and its

study. His book on that science, called "Christian Astrol-
ogy," laid the foundation for what is called " Modern Astrol-
ogy." It is a very large volume and very expensive, but
well worth reading, and the student should procure it if it

ever comes in his way.
"Zadkiel" (Lieut. Morrison, of the British Navy) pub-

lished an incomplete edition about the year 1830. After his
copyright expired, Mr. H. G. Bohn of London republished
the same edition, and has sold hundreds of thousands of copies.



VIII ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Henry Cooley, one of Lilly's pupils, published a very good
book on that science, called the " Key to Astrology." John
Gadbury, near the same time, published a large book on
Astrology called the " Doctrine of Nativities." John Gad-
bury was a very smooth writer, especially in that part of his
work which treats on Horary Astrology; he was the first

one who calculated a ''Table of Houses" for 40 degrees
north latitude, answering for New York and Philadelphia.
He wrote several other works on Astrology, the names of
which I have forgotten. Dr. Saunders near the same time
published a remarkably good work on "Medical Astrology,"
which is one of the best books that has ever been published
on that subject; the Introduction was written by William
Lilly. Nicholas Culpepper, about the same time published
the " British Herbal "

; it had an enormous sale, a great many
editions having been issued; I have about twenty. The
edition published by Dr. Hamilton in two large volumes is

the most complete; it gives the astrological description of
diseases, and how to cure them with the herbs; each herb
is described, and also the name of the planet that governs it.

"Culpepper's Herbal" at one time was like the family
Bible, in almost every cottage in England. It was the book
that first drew my grandfather's attention to the science of
Astrology, and induced him to study and make use of it in
the practice of medicine. There have been a number of
other very good books on Medical Astrology printed,
many of which I have read, but the names of the authors I

have forgotten. In short, at one time Medical Astrology was
the basis of the only legal practice of medicine that was
permitted in England, and many countries of Europe—the
same as it is at the present time in many parts of Asia.

About the time Culpepper's "British Herbal" made
its appearance William Ramsey published an excellent work
on "Mundane Astrology;" it is a large volume and very
expensive, but one of the best books on that subject ever
published in the English language. After the middle
of the 17th century there were a great many very good
astrological books published by different authors. Among
the most noted of these books was " Butler's Astrology," a
large volume published on nativities, in 1688, by the Rev.
Doctor John Butler, Rector of Litchborough, England, and
chaplain to the Duke of Ormond, is a very good scien-
tific book,' and the author was a remarkably intelligent
man. He is very technical and scientific, and his book is too
far advanced for young students. The main reason we are
indebted to the Rev. John Butler for his book on Astrology
is that some years previously to that time he spent a great deal



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. IX

of his energy publishing articles against Astrology and con-
demning it, but afterwards came to the conclusion that he
could expose Astrology with much more effect if he studied
it and became acquainted with its principles, and the result
was that he wrote one of the most scientific books on the
subject. He also republished a horoscope of Jesus Christ,
and calculated that he was born at 12 o'clock at night, on
the 25th of December; but Cardinal de Ailly, who died in

1425, had previously calculated and published the horoscope
of Jesus Christ. About 1425 there was a great number of
cardinals and bishops, and other dignitaries of the Church,
who were believers and students in Astrology, and recognized
the science; among the number was Calixtus III., Pope of
Rome.
Towards the end of the 17 th century Dr. Salmon pub-

lished a very good work called the "Soul of Astrology."
Another author, whose name I forget, published a work
called the "Marrow of Astrology." Another published the
"Spirit of Astrology;" I think it was Mr. John Partridge.
Mr. Hayden also published a very good little book on the
science. Mr. White's "Astrology" is an excellent work.
About the same time a large number of astrological books
were published in London. We might designate it the
" Elizabethian Age of Astrology," especially during the
latter part of the 16th and the early part of the 17 th centuries.

In 1723 Richard Ball published a remarkably good book
on the science, called "Astrology Improved;" and about
the middle of the 18th century there was quite a number
of astrological almanacs and ephemerides published. I find
no less than nine yearly almanacs and ephemerides pub-
lished in London in 1768. Probably the one that became
most popular was that published by Francis Moore, physi-
cian, called the "Vox Stellarum, or Royal Almanac." The
Rev. Thomas Dick said that it attained an annual sale of
over two hundred and forty thousand. It was afterwards
very popular under the name of "Old Moore's Almanac"
for over a century.* The next to that in popularity was
the Almanac and Ephemeris of John Partridge; it attained
a large circulation, so much so that the Stationers' Com-
pany who were engaged in sending gospel missionaries
abroad, and who published the "Gentleman's Diary" and
the "Woman's Almanac," purchased the right of publi-

cation from Partridge's widow, and continued to publish it

for nearly a hundred years after, f The next almanac of

importance was "Parker's Ephemeris" which attained a

* See Appendix, page 437. t See Appendix, page 445.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

a large circulation. The " News of the Stars," almanac and
ephemeris, published by William Andrews, student in Astro-
ogy, became very popular; Salem Pearse's Celestial Diary
or Ephemeris was a great favorite '

; ' Poor Robin's Almanac "

became very noted, especially on . ccount of its prognostica-
tions. Richard Saunders published the " English Apollo,"
a yearly almanac which became very well known ; also the
"Speculum Anni, " or almanac published by Ennis Season,
became very popular ; an almanac published by Tycko Wing,
"Philomath," became a great favorite. Altogether, these
almanacs and ephemerides must have attained a yearly circu-
lation of over a million.

On account of the persecutions against astrologers and
Astrology in the latter part of the 18th century, the interest
in the science began to decline. The encyclopcedias and
other books which mentioned the name Astrology, and also the
ministers of the gospel, could not invent too severe epithets
against the science and its professors, and during this period
but few if any ephemerides, except Partridge's and White's,
were published, and the latter was chiefly used by captains of
vessels to find the longitude and latitude of their ships at sea.

But about 1820 Astrology commenced to revive again, and
Mr. Smith commenced publishing " Raphael's Almanac and
Prophetic Messenger; " he also published several books on
the subject. Raphaels "Manual of Astrology" is a very
good book ; also Raphael's '

' Hand Books of Astrology/' chiefly
" Genethliacal " or nativities, and one volume on "Horary
Astrology," and a small volume called the " Key to Astrol-
ogy." All four books are very good and concise. Raphael's
"Prophetic Messenger " and ephemeris is still published in
London, and has a an annual sale of near 200,000.

Near the beginning of the present century John Worsdale
published his "Genethliacal Astrology." He was the first

who revived, or rather discovered, what is termed the long
calculations, or the "Arc of Directions" in nativities.
Besides translating "Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos, " Mr. Wors-
dale published several books on the science in addition to his
" Genethliacal Astrology," and he made a number of discov-
eries in that science, or at least other astrologers gave him
the credit of making them, but he insisted that Claudius
Ptolemy made these discoveries and taught them two thou-
sand years before. He also published a pamphlet containing
the horoscopes of Napoleon Bonaparte and Arthur Wellesley,
who was afterward the Duke of Wellington; in that pamph-
let he made a prediction that as Gen. Wellesley had the
benevolent planet Jupiter in the mid-heaven in his horo-



"

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. XI

scope, in almost the exact place that Napoleon Bonaparte
had the evil planet Saturn, if ever these generals met on
the battlefield Napoleon would be vanquished and would
never lead another army, which prediction was fulfilled at
their first meeting. That pamphlet was published eleven
years before the battle of Waterloo.
About 1830 " Zadkiel " commenced publishing his astrolog-

ical almanac, which has attained over one hundred and sixty
thousand yearly circulation. He also published a yearly
ephemeris ; both continue to the present day. Besides repub-
lishing Lilly's Astrology, he published a remarkably good and
useful book called the "Grammar of Astrology, " and his
two hand books on Astrology are equal to anything that have
been published on nativities. For a long time he published
a monthly periodical called the " Horoscope," and his name
has become well known throughout the civilized world. But
probably one of the most learned astrologers that has given
attention to the subject since Lilly's time, was Joseph W.
Simmonite, of Sheffield, England. His '

' Arcana of Astral
Philosophy " is an exceedingly good work, and it has been
republished by the Occult Publishing Company of Boston. Dr.
Simmonite simplified the long calculations and made many
improvements. His Horary Astrology I kept on my desk for
reference for over 30 years. His book on Revolutions is one
of the best that has ever been published, and his Botanic Prac-
tice of Medicine is also an excellent little volume ; I carried
it in my pocket for years, and committed to memory his
descriptions of diseases. Dr. Simmonite published for many
years an almanac called the "Meteorologist" and a yearly
Ephemeris ; also a monthly periodical called the '

' Messenger.
In addition to Zadkiel's Almanac and Ephemeris and

Raphael's Prophetic Messenger and Ephemeris, there has been
published in Peterborough, England, for nearly sixty years,
" Orion's Prophetic Almanac, Weather Guide and Ephe-
meris, " which is a very good, readable almanac, and has a large
circulation. On page 142 of this volume I stated that there
was no ephemeris published in the United States, but since
I began to write this book, I find that Joseph G. Dalton, of
Boston, has commenced publishing '

' The Boston Ephemeris.
The first issue is for the year 1898; but I am sorry to say
he has made all the calculations for the longitude of London,
England, instead of making them for either the longitude of
Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Washington or Chicago ; but
it certainly is a very useful and correct Ephemeris.

Mr. Dalton has also published a very comprehensive Table
of Houses from 22 to 56 north latitude ; it is a very good and



XII ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

useful book, and can be had at my office for $2. 50. It is the
first Table of Houses that has been published for every
even degree of north latitude from 22 to 56 . It will also
answer for the southern hemisphere from 22 to 56 south lati-

tude by a few slight calculations. Mr. Dalton is one of the
most lsarned mathematicians in the United States, and has
taken great interest in Astrology.
The " Star " is a very good work on long calculations, pub-

lished by Eben Shemaya. A New Illustration of the Science
of Astrology, by Sibley, is a very large, voluminous work, of
over 1,000 pages, and larger than any ordinary family Bible.
Wilson's Dictionary of Astrology is a remarkably good work
for a student to have ; a new edition is printed by the Occult
Publishing Company, of Boston. Mr. James Wilson was a
splendid writer on Astrology, and very scientific.

There has been a flood of Astrological books published of
late years, both in the United States, and in England,
and a great many of the best of the old authors have
also been reprinted. The Occult Publishing Company, of
Boston, has printed all the works that I have mentioned
of J. W. Simmonite, and also published a number of new
books on the science. Mr. Bragdon, " Regulus, " has written
several good works on Astrology; among others a brief
Ephemeris of Uranus, Saturn, Jupiter and Mars, from 1701
to 1 9 18; also a " Table of Ascensions, " " Signs of the Times,"
and "Zodiacal Physiognomy." Mr. Allen Leo, the editor
of "Modern Astrology, " a monthly periodical published in
London, England, has issued a useful little work called
"Practical Astrology." J. B. Sullivan's "Seven Easy
Lessons in Astrology " is a good little book for learners.

"Astrology, Science of Knowledge and Reason," by Ellen
H Bennett. I cannot speak of the merits of this book,
as I have not read it. Mr. James Hingston, one of the editors
of the New York Herald, has lately published a very good
readable book, called the '

' Gospel of the Stars, or Wonders
"

of Astrology." Carl Anderson's " Astrology and the Bible
is a very good work. "Natal Astrology, " and the "Soul
and the Stars," by G. Wilde and J. Dodson of Halifax, Eng-
land, is an excellent work on nativities. " Astrology as It Is
and Not as It Is Represented," is also a very good readable
book. '

' The Text Book of Astrology, " chiefly genethliacal or
nativities, in two large volumes by Alfred J. Pearce of London,
are remarkably good books for advanced students.
The first book published on Astrology in the United States,

was one by Dr. Roeback,* a perfect fraud and an impostor,

* See Appendix, page 452.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. XIII

who knew no more of Astrology than he did about flying;

he got a newspaper reporter to compile it for him, who copied
it chiefly from John Gadbury's book on Astrology, and called
it the "Doctrine of Nativities According to Horary Astrol-
ogy." For a long time it was the only Astrological book
published in this country. *

Of late years there have been several pseudo- Astrological
works published on what is called " Solar Biology," by Mr.
Butler, Eleanor Kirk and some others, but practically they are
not books on Astrology, and the student will lose time in
studying them. Besides, they are not reliable.

For over one hundred years nearly all scientific men denied
that the Moon and planets had any influence on the weather,
but of late years it is astonishing how many almanacs and
periodicals are now published on the weather in the United
States, by such as Rev. Mr. Hicks, Wiggins, Devoe, and
others ; and all their predictions on the weather are from the
influence of the Moon and the planets and their aspects. We
have even arrived at the point now that without aspects of
the Moon and planets we have no change of weather.

When I published " Broughton's Monthly Planet Reader
and Astrological Journal " 40 years ago, it was the only
monthly periodical of the kind in the world, or at least in the
English language. I was acquainted with nearly every man
in the United States who had any knowledge on the subject,
and probably at that time there were not twenty persons that
knew enough of Astrology to be able to erect a horoscope,
and they were all either French, English or German. There
was not an American, either man or woman, in the whole
United States who could even erect a horoscope at that time.
At the present day there are many thousand American
people who are studying Astrology, and some have become
quite proficient in the science. The study and investiga-
tiomof Theosophy has drawn the attention of the American
people to the subject of Astrology. They are beginning to
find out that Astronomy and Astrology are the foundation of
all religions, and there never was a time when there were
such a demand for astrological books; also there never wuo
such facilities for studying the science as there are at the
present day. Within a few years from now, if the interest

* The first monthly periodical ever published on Astrology in the United States was edited
by Thomas Hauge, called " Hauge's Horoscope." It commenced about the year 1840, and was
continued for a number or' years.

The second monthly periodical was issued by my eldest brother, Mark A. Broughton, called
"Broughton's Monthly Horoscope." It commenced in 1849, and was published for a number of
years. My brother previously published an astrological almanac and ephemeris in Leeds, England.

The above series were very :

similar to the ' 20th Century Astrologer," which is published at the
present time at 9 Columbus Ave., New York, for which periodical I write the predictions.



: ;

XIV ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGV.

continues, any person who shows an ignorance of the subject
will be laughed at. There are now numbers of persons who,
well-informed on other subjects, still show an ignorance and
a remarkably strong prejudice against Astrology, as proof of
which I refer the reader to different parts of the book, where
I have noticed some of the remarks of the editors of the
"New York Sun," the "Times," the "Herald," and
especially in my remarks on the "Humbug of Astrology,"
published in the "World" by Richard A. Proctor. Besides
the editors of the above named papers, there are several other
persons that I ought to pay some little attention to in this
part of my book.

For several years I published " horoscopes" in a number
of newspapers and periodicals in different parts of the United
States, and sent circulars to editors, asking them if they
would like horoscopes in their papers. The following are
samples of some of the answers I received

Youth's Companion, Boston, Mass.,
May 15th,

Mr. Broughton, 1895.

Dear Sir :

The proposition which you make to the Companion is one which is

entirely out of its scope, and one which we should under no circumstances
adopt. We are not ourselves believers in Astrology, and we pity those who
are. Very Truly Yours,

The Editors.

Montgomery St., Jersey City, N. J.,

t» t t-» t> l. Feb. 1st, 1896.
Dr. L. D. Broughton, ' y

68 So. Washington Square,
Dear Sir:

I have no doubt that an increase of circulation among a certain class

could be effected by using your horoscopes. I should, however, be very sorry
to undertake to secure circulation by fostering such a baleful and ridiculous
superstition. 4 Yours Respectfully,

The Evening Journal Assoc,
Joseph A. Dear, Treas.

I might here mention that a particular friend of mine, who
was studying Astrology, one day went into a large book store
in Baltimore, and asked if they had for sale "Wilson's
Dictionary of Astrology." The proprietor made answer by
saying " No, and I hope for the sake of humanity, that such
a book has never been published." My friend quietly asked
him, " Do you know anything about Astrology? " "No, and I

do not want to know anything about it." There are vast
numbers of this kind of people in all Christian countries
I will not attempt to answer them myself, but refer the
student to pages 245 and 246 of this book, and let Mr. James



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. XV

Wilson answer them for me, as I think he can do it in much
more forcible and better language than I have at command.

I wish the student to distinctly bear in mind that Mr.
Wilson knows what he is writing about, whereas the editors
of the "Youth's Companion," Mr. Joseph A. Dear, and the
book store man in Baltimore, know nothing about Astrol-
ogy, consequently do not know what they are talking about.
They are simply talking of some undefinable chimera which
they have in their own brain, and which has no relation
whatever to Astrology. No one could have been more
opposed to what he thought was Astrology than Professor
W. H. Chaney, before he became acquainted with me. One
time he was at a public meeting in Boston, and the speaker,
a very intelligent man, happened to mention the word,
"Astrology." Mr. Chaney told me afterwards, he looked
down with supreme contempt on the gentleman for insult-
ing such an audience by mentioning the word "Astrol-
ogy." There is no doubt if the above editors did acquire
some knowledge of the science, they would work equally as
hard in favor of Astrology, and do as much to promulgate
its principles, as Mr. Chaney has done since he commenced
studying the science. Mr. Chaney has made it a study, day
and night, and has published numbers of text books on the
science, which he calls "Primers," besides editing a monthly
magazine on Astrology, and publishing an ephemeris in this
country for a number of years. He also republished White's
Ephemeris, extending over 75 years, making a number of
calculations for the same, to find or correct the positions
of the planets. And as he tells us in his preface to White's
Ephemeris, '

' I will say in conclusion that I have toiled very
hard for the last year and a half, and have been setting type
and reading proof, with my mind on a constant strain to de-
tect an error. For months in succession, Sunday as well as
week days, I have made an average of fifteen hours, daily
labor." Mr. Chaney has continued to labor hard in the
cause for over thirty years, by lecturing, writing and teach-
ing the science of Astrology at great sacrifice to himself.

To correct as far as possible the wrong impressions that
many intelligent people have on Astrology, I have published
this volume, so as to disseminate a knowledge of the science.

God appears to have made the world upside down, and
things appear inverted to men as well as to babies, the first

time they look at them ; and men, like babies, have to learn
to see things aright. That is the reason why the common
people, the first time any truth is presented to them, oppose
it with all the vehemence they can possibly command, and



XVI ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

persecute the persons who present these great truths, and in
doing- so these ignorant people think they are rendering
God service, for which God will reward them in a future
life, and so all the people that die go to the wrong place,
and the public afterwards find that those who were perse-
cuted the most have been the best people while living in this
world, and ought to have gone to the good place in the next.

We are taught in the Episcopalian creed, that Jesus Christ
1

' suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead and
buried, descended into hell and rose again from the dead on
the third day, and ascended into heaven, and sitteth on the
right hand of God, the Father Almighty. " And if that is

not all true, I do not see why the authorities should imprison
people, and burn them alive at the stake for not believing it.

Joan of Arc was burned alive by the English for being a
witch, but really for no other reason than that she was a
successful leader or general for the French soldiers, and
defeating the English armies; but it took over four hundred
years for her to ascend into heaven.

In this book I have attempted to accomplish three objects:
First, to make the book interesting to the general reader,

although he has no knowledge whatever of the science of
Astrology.

Second, to bring forward such an amount of facts and
phenomena in their relation to Astrology, and the various
events in history, that it will bean impossibility to deny their
relation. These phenomena and the coincident events might
have been traced back for thousands of years, if it had been
necessary to bring further proof, and all of them would
have coincided so as to be related or connected one with the
other. Emerson says: " Principles built on the unerring
foundation of observations and experiments must necessarily
stand good until the dissolution of nature itself."

Third, to make "The Elements of Astrology" so simple,
easy and plain to an ordinary person, who has received a
common1 school education, that hereafter there can be no
excuse for any person that can read and write remaining
ignorant of the science of Astrology.

I am aware that there have been numbers of very good
text books on Astrology published, the names of most of
which I have mentioned in the preceding pages, but they
have all been written as if the author expected the student
had already become interested in the subject, and had made
a certain advancement in the science, or that he had a com-
petent teacher at hand to instruct him in the rudiments and
principles of the science; or at least all the students in



:

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. XVII

Astrology whom I have become acquainted with have made
that complaint ; and I must admit when I commenced study-
ing Astrology, over fifty years ago, it would have been an
impossibility for me to have learned from the books without
a teacher, as it is more difficult to learn than any other of the
natural sciences.

My long experience and practice has made me so familiar
with the science that I hope I have made the "Elements of
Astrology " so easy to be understood, that it will answer as
a stepping stone to larger and scientific books on the subject.

That such a work is called for at the present day, I might
bring thousands of instances to prove, but will only give one
A lady wrote me from Salem, Massachusetts, Dec. 14th,

1897, and expressed herself in the following language:
" Esteemed Sir:

Will you permit me, an interested reader, and an ardent admirer of all

your writings, to intrude upon your valuable time by penning a few lines

on a subject on which I know you can assist me, if you will kindly consent
to do so. I am very desirous of becoming an Astrologist. 1 am well edu-
cated and a student, and I am willing to work hard to accomplish the object
in view. I have procured the " Language of the Stars," which seems beyond
my comprehension, and "Raphael's Key to Astrology;" also have the
Astrologer's Magazine, but try as I may I cannot get ahead, and I am
very much discouraged, yet I am determined to conquer in spite of all

obstacles. I felt that you might kindly advise me what is the best plan to
pursue, as I am so anxious to succeed. I thought that in writing to you
you might kindly suggest to me the "missing link" which I have failed to
discover."

I hope and really believe that not only this lady, but every
other lady who can read the English language, will discover
the " missing link " in the following pages.
Some of my friends think that I have devoted too much

space in this book to the general reader; but how shall we
reach such people as the Editor of "Youth's Companion,"
the book store man in Baltimore, or Mr. Joseph A. Dear of
the '

' Jersey City Evening Journal, " without addressing them
in language which they can understand? Of course if such as
they can not become interested in Astrology, they will still

go on regarding that science as "baleful, and ridiculous
superstition." If every kind of information that Mr. Dear
does not know is "laughable and of a low and degrading
nature," there must be a large surplus of that commodity in
the world, and the only way to reduce it is for him and all

persons like him to become better informed.
Mr. W. R. Hearst, editor of the "New York Morning

Journal," appears to be of a different opinion to the editor
of the "Jersey City Journal," as the former gentleman has



XVIII ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

offered one thousand dollars to the one who can make the
most correct predictions for 1898, either by Astrology or any
other method.
Of course if Mr. Hearst had made that offer fifty years

ago, there would not nave been a minister of the Gospel or
a newspaper editor in the country, that would not have
condemned him to everlasting torment. As the former
gentlemen regarded even the wish or desire to pry into the
future as equal in iniquity to "sinning against the Holy
Ghost, which is never forgiven, either in this world or that
which is to come," Mr. Hearst would even have been
treated worse than I was when lecturing on the science of
Astrology, thirty years ago.
No one could have been more opposed to the science of

Astrology, or have striven more to have laws enacted for its

suppression, than the late Charles A. Dana, editor of the
" New York Sun," and yet at the end of each year, instead of
giving a synopsis of the past events of that year, as was
done by all other papers, he went on guessing what would
happen in the following year, and in nine cases out of ten
he was incorrect in his conclusions.
The offer of $1,000 which the "Journal" has made will

give a great impulse to the study of Astrology, especially in
the United States, as the people will gradually discover that
there is no other method equal to the science of Astrology
in predicting future events, either national or individual.

Mr. Emerson says: " Hitch your wagon to a star. " The
student should constantly bear in mind that when he was
born not only his wagon, but he himself, was hitched to a
Planet, and that "there is not a pulse beats in the human
frame that is not governed by the stars or planets above us,
and at thy birth thy mother's eye gazed not more steadfastly
on thee than did the planet that rules thy fate.'"

It is our duty to learn and study the nature of these planets,
and their influence on human beings, and be guided by them,
and as John Kepler says: "A most unfailing experience of
the excitement of sublunary natures by the conjunctions and
aspects of the planets, has instructed and compelled my
unwilling belief." If we only will let the conjunctions and
aspects of these same planets instruct our unwilling belief
they will enable us to make the most of our talents and
opportunities while sojourning through this vale of tears.

The man who will insist in remaining in ignorance must
suffer the natural consequences, but at the same time he
should not try to compel other people to remain in the same
condition. The student will find all honest astrologers will



:

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. XIX

aid him to learn the science himself, so as to form his own
judgment of its merits or demerits, and after he has become
informed on the subject, he will not be like the "fox with
the sour grapes," regard everything which he does not know
or cannot understand as '

' fostering to baleful and ridiculous
superstition."

There is no doubt that near the end of 1898 other news-
papers will make similar offers besides the "New York
Morning Journal," if they find it to their interest to do so,

even if such men as Mr. Dear think it is " fostering a bale-
ful and ridiculous superstition among a certain class." What
class Mr. Dear refers to is difficult to conjecture. I cannot
believe that he referred to the class who study and investigate
Astrology. I might give a number of illustrations, why I

cannot think he refers to the latter "class" but give the
following, as one reason
Some years ago, when my eldest son assisted me in my

practice, and I was out visiting patients, and gentlemen or
ladies came to my office to consult me in regard to their ail-

ments, he attended them, but if any very intelligent wealthy
lady or gentleman came in their carriages, he often made
the mistake of asking them if they had not come to consult
his father on Astrology, as few, except of that class came to
consult me in that science ; but of course the above kind of
people is not the "class" among which Mr. Dear wishes to
"increase the circulation" of his paper, but among that
class, who when I was giving lectures on Astrology, came
to make disturbance and break up my meetings, and to make
night hideous in the room above, wmere we were living.

In conclusion I will say that if I have succeeded in inducing
even one person to become interested in this ancient and long
neglected science, who formerly looked on it as "baleful and
ridiculous superstition," I shall not have written this book
in vain; and as Mr. James Hingston, (a man whom I highly
esteem, although he is one of the editors of the New Y01 ic

Herald, ) in his Preface to his '
' Gospel of the Stars, or Wonders

of Astrology," says:

" My object in writing this book has been to aid in popularizing the
once famous, but long neglected science or art of Astrology. The facts

therein contained I have gathered from many sources, but mainly from the
works of the great dead star readers, to whom I gladly acknowledge my
debt of gratitude ; for, even though they be dead, who can say that they are
utterly beyond the reach of praise or blame?

" I have aimed rather to interest than to instruct, for which reason
instead of a text-book, I give here a picture of Astrology as it was in the
past, dwelling to the best of my ability on the glories of its career, and
showing why it is as worthy of esteem in our days as it was in the days of



XX ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Ptolemy. I know of no book on the subject that has been written from this
standpoint. There are some serviceable text-books for students, but there
are hardly any astrological books that appeal to the people."

I agree with Mr. Hingston, that we ought, at the present
day, to show that Astrology is as worthy of esteem now as
it was two thousand years ago.

In the following pages, I have endeavored to combine a
text-book with a '

' picture of the glorious career of Astrology
in the past," and at the same time to make it interesting to
both the student and general reader. How far I have suc-
ceeded in my object, I leave to a kind and indulgent public
to decide.

LESSONS AND BOOKS ON ASTROLOGY.
I have endeavored to make Astrology as plain and easy as possible to

the learner in the following pages, but still there may be some persons, who
cannot possibly learn the science without lessons from a competent teacher;
should any of my readers not be able to master the subject without such
assistance, to those I offer instruction at $3.00 per lesson of one hour.
Sometimes it is necessary for persons to take eight or ten lessons before they
are able to calculate horoscopes and read them satisfactorily.

There are some persons so constituted that it is impossible for them to
make any headway in studying Astrology, and this can be learned before-
hand from their horoscopes; as there are many persons so constituted as
never to become good musicians, orators, actors, physicians or lawyers, and
it would be advisable before commencing the study of Astrology to have
their horoscope calculated, and find if it is favorable for that science, if so,

then there is no doubt but what they can become proficient in it, and it will

be an advantage to them ; for this information I charge from $2.00 to $5.00.
In addition to the "Elements of Astrology," there are numbers of other

books published on the science, which it is advisable that the student should
purchase, and study as much as possible; some of these books I have men-
tioned in the previous pages, but there are some that are much easier under-
stood than others, and those mentioned below are of that kind.

It is often very difficult to advise the student which particular book he
should read and study first ; that depends upon what particular branch of
Astrology he is aiming to become proficient in ; for instance, if he wants speci-
ally to study Mundane Astrology, he should purchase books on that subject,
the same in regard to Nativities, Medical Astrology or Horary Questions, etc.,

but if he wants to become a competent Astrologer, and have a general
knowledge of the science, I recommend him to purchase the following,
which can be obtained at my office, No. 68 South Washington Square, Neiv
York, at the prices appended.
" Key to Astrology," by Raphael, $0.35 Table of Houses from 22 to 56 north
" Horary Astrology," - 1.00 latitude, $2. 50
" Raphael's Horary Astrology,". 1.00 Raphael's Ephemeris for 1898, including
" Simmonite's Horary Astrology," 1.25 Tables of Houses for latitude of
"Seven Easy Lessons on Astrology," ?$ London. Liverpool and New York,... .25
" Guide to Astrology," Raphael, 2 volumes, 2 00 Raphael's Ephemerides, back years, (each) .35
" Wilson's Dictionary of Astrologv," 4.00 " Boston Ephemeris." by J. G. Dalton,. .. .25
"Lilly's Astrology," and " Zadkiel's *' A Treatise of Natal Astrology," 3.50

Grammar of Astrology," 2.00 "Complete Arcana of Astral Philosophy,"
by J. W. Simmonite, 4.50

All other books on Astrology that are in print may be had on applica-
tion at reasonable rates.



— ; 5

CONTENTS.

Page Pagk
Preface, ifi« The sign Taurus rules Ireland,.. 79
To the Student, v. Personal description of man or woman
Lessons and Books on Astro'ogy, xx. described by the Planets, 79
A Glossary of Astrological Terms, xxv. The afflicting planets describe the assassins
Elements of Astrologyy,— Introduction,.... ^, in remarkable murder cases,... 80
A brief History of Astrology, by i'.s Friends The horoscope of the assassination of

or Advocates $ President Lincoln, on April 14th. 1865, 81
A short History of Astrology by its Enemies, 12 The horoscope of the assassination ot Presi-
Remarks on Prof. Proctor's "Humbug of dent G n field. July 2d, 1881, 82

Astrology," ij The horoscope of the assassination of Lord
Rev. Thomas Dick of England on'Astro'ogy, Frederick Cavendish and Mr. Thomas

in his " Improvement of Society by Burke, May 6th, 1882,.... 83
the Diffusion of Knowledge," 18 Horoscope of the assassination of Carrie

" Chambers's Encyclopaedia " on Astrology, 19 Brown (" Old Shakespeare,") 84
John Kepler's Discoveries in Astronomy Horoscope of the assassination of Mr.

and Astrology, 21 Andiew J. Borden and his wife, August
John Dryden, Cardinal Richelieu, and Sir 4th, 189*, 85

Isaac Newton, Astrologers, 22 Elements of Astrology—Rudiments of the
The supposed Argument which the Enemies Science, 87

of Astrology, have brought against that A blank chart of the Heavens, showing the
Science, 24 position and number of Houses, 88

Dr. Mesmer and Animal Magnetism, and The signification of the 12 Houses, 89
the French Academy of Science—Ben- The nature, quality and description of the 12
jamin Franklin and the Lightning Rod, 32 Houses,... 90

Harry Howard, his execution for murder, Advice to students studying Astrology,-... 93
and Hipnotism 33 Remarks on the signs of the Zodiac, 94

Chinese and Astrology, and their Method Divisions of the signs of the Zodiac, 9S
of making use of it in their Marriages, 35 General appearance of persons described by

Mrs. Maud S-, The New York Times, and the 12 signs of the Zodiac, 97
Astrology, 36 Persons described by the 8 Planets, 99

The Author's Criticism on the Editor of the The description of Herschel persons, 99
New York Times, 37 The description of Saturn perrons,.. 100

Mrs. Maud S 's Daughter's Horoscope, ... 38 The description of Jupiter, Mars and Sun
The Opposition to Lectures on Astrology in persons, 101

New York City 40 The description of Venus persons, 102
The Persecution the Author met with at The description of Meicury and Moon

814 Broadway, New York 41 persons, 103
The interference of the Author's Lectures, General advice to the student in learning the

and the breaking up of the Meetings,.. 42 description of persons, 104
The stoppage of the Author's mail in the Herschel in the 12 signs of the Zodiac,.... 105

post-office in New York, 43 Saturn in the 12 signs 106
Astrology in London, by Edgar Lee, 45 Jupiter m the 12 signs,.. 108
Correspondence with Dr. L. D Broughton, Mars in the 12 signs, ... no

O. D. Bradgen, and A N. Doerschuk Sun in the 12 signs, 113
on writings of horoscopes, 50 Venus in the 12 signs, 1

1

The Bible and Astrology, 57 Mercury in the 12 signs, 117
Pharaoh's Dream and the Magicians of The Moon in the 12 signs, 119

Egpyt and Babylon 58 The effects of the conjunction of Uranus
Misrepresentation of Astrology, 60 with the 7 planets, 122
Theories of ancient Astronomers, 60 The effects of Saturn in conjunction with
Perihelion Epoch of Jupiter coincident with the other planets, 125

the return of Cholera and epidemics,.. . 62 The effects of Jupiter in conjunction with
Action and reaction of one planet on the other planets, 126

another, 65 The effects of Mars in conjunction with the
The effect on the earth and its inhabitants other planets 128

of the near approach of Mars, 66 The effects of the Sun in conjunction with
Diagram of the Solar System,. 67 the other planets, 129
Mars in opposition to the Sun, 67 The effects of Venus and Mercury, when in
The period of the war, 68 conjunction with the Moon, 130
The sign Gemini rues the United States,.. 69 Of the Sextile and Trine aspects of the
Critical times stirring periods,, 69 significators, 131
Important era in history, (Salem Witchcraft), 70 The effects of the square or opposition
Meteorology and Planetary Influence, 72 aspect between the significators, • 135
The planet Neptune in Gemini, 1720; Practical Astrology, 141

- South Sea Bubble, and John Law's Rule to set a Map of the Heavens, . . . 142
Banking Scheme, 74 Horoscope of the Inauguration of Hon.

Neptune in Gemini from 1888 to 1901 William McKinlev, 14J
Panama Scandal, and suspension of Chart of the Heavens for the time that Presi-
Baring Brothers, of London, 76 dent McKinley took the oath of office, 146



XXII CONTENTS.

Page Page
Horoscope erected for the time that the Business or Profession in which the native

Extra Session of Congress met at will be unfortunate, 196
Washington, D. C, March 15th, 1897, Profession or Business in which the native
at 12 Noon,.. 1 'o would be fortunate, 198

Nativity of Mrs. Maud S.'s daughter,... . 151 The influence of the Lord of the first house
How to calculate the "Part of Fortune,".. 151 in each of the 12 houses, 199
Chart of the Heavens for a girl born July The Lord of the second in the 12 houses,.. 201

2d, 1884, at 8.35 A. M., New York City, 152 The Lord of the third in the 12 houses,.... 202
Lords or Rulers of the signs of the Zodiac, 155 The Lord of the fourth in the 12 houses,... 204
Table of Lords of the signs or of the Houses, 154 The Lord of the fifth in the ia houses, 205
Claudius Ptolemy—reasons for allotting the The Lord of the sixth in the 12 houses,... 206

signs to these planets, 154 The Lord of the seventh in the 12 houses,.. 208
Rules for reading horoscopes, 155 The Lord of the eighth in the 12 houses,... 210
Acquire a regular system of reading a horo- The Lord of the ninth in the 12 houses,.... 212

scope 156 The Lord of the tenth in the 12 houses, 213
The giver of Life, 157 The Lord of the eleventh in the 12 houses, 215
Personal description, 158 The Lord of the twelfth in the 12 houses,... 217
Huw to describe a person by the planets and Remarks and Explanations 219

the signs of the Zodiac 1 59 Remarks on the lords of the 12 houses, and
Rules to be followed in describing persons,. 160 explaining how they are used in direc-
Sickness, diseases and complaints, 161 tions, transits, revolutionary figures,
The financial benefit to the persons in study- etc., 223

ing Astrology, 161 Remarks on the changes in the personal
Riches and Poverty, 162 appearance of the native in the different
Mental Abilities, 162 periods of his life, 224
Disposition and Temper, 162 Rules for judging of the changing of the
Business and Honor, 163 build and complexion of the native, . . . 224
Friends and Enemies,... .< 163 The planets impress distinct characteristics
Morals and Religion—relations and jour- or marks on the native which can be

neys, 163 recognized 226
Marriage, 164 The seven planets rule the human sys-
Rules for describing the kind of person, a tem—named in the following order,.... 227

lady or gentleman will marry ; also How to find the time of day a person is

whether it will be a happy or unhappy born ; also how to correct the wrong
marriage, 164 time of birth, 228

The kind of gentleman Mrs. Maud S.'s Table of Essential Dignities, and various
daughter will marry, ... 166 other tables and information, 231

Tile age when married, 167 Planets and other symbols, 231
Children, 167 The signs of the Zodiac and their classifica-
Health, 167 tion, 232
The various contingencies and events of The division of the 12 signs of the Zodiac,. . 233

life,...., 167 Triplicities or Trigons, 234
Rules how to calculate those various events The signs divided among the planets, 235

and contingencies of life, 168 Explanation of the Table of Essential Digni-
Criticism on the New York Times, and ties, •.•••.-. z 3°

other remarks on Astrology, 171 Table of Essential Dignities, and debilities
Criticism on Chas. A. Dana, editor of the of the planets, 237

New York Sun—remarks on Astrology, 174 Remarks on the Table of Essential Dignities
Horoscope of the Chinese Consul's son,... 175 of the planets 238
Remarks on the Part of Fortune, 176 Joys of the planets,.. 239
How to describe a person born under the The reason a planet receives its joy in one

planet Mercury in the sign Cancer. 177 of its own signs and not in the other,.. 239
Health and Life, 178 Historical remarks on the Essential Digni-
Riches and Poverty, 178 ties of the planets, 239
Trade and Profession, 178 Orbs of the Planets, 240
Friends and Enemies, 176 Table of the planet's orbs, 240
Marriage and Children, 179 The mean motion of the planets, 240
Fortunate and Unfortunate periods, or the Table of the mean motion of the planets,... 241

various contingencies or events of life, . 180 Sympathy and antipathy of the planets—or
Rules for judging the events and the times friends and enemies, 241

that they will happen in nativities 181 A table of the friendship and enmities of the
Remarks on Secondary directions, 182 planets, 241
A Synopsis of Medical Astrology, 183 Aspects of the planets 242
On Professor Draper's ridiculing William New aspects discovered by John Kepler,. . 243

Lilly's Astrology, 184 The Dragon's Head or Moon's Node, 243
Parts of the bodies ruled bv the 12 houses Good and evil Planetary Hours, 244

and the 12 signs of the Zodiac 185 Prof. Wilson's criticisms on skeptics of
Diseases caused by the planets 187 Astrology 245
Rules to judge the probable time of Mar- Different grades of believers in Astrology,. 246

riage of the native—also the number of Remarks on the planetary hours 247
children, 189 The French and Latin names of days of the

How to judge if a horoscope is fortunate or week, and explanation why the names of
unfortunate, 191 some of those days of the week have

Mental Abilities, .. 193 been changed z4%
The temper or the animal passions 194 Signification of the planetary hours, and
Profession and Trade—Riches and Poverty, 194 what use may be made of them, 249



J

CONTENTS. XXIII

Page Page
The influence of the planetary hours of the Picture of Mr. and Mrs. Lillian Langtry,.. 308

Sun, Moor, and the five planets, .... 229 Horoscope of Victoria, Queen of Great
The hours of Saturn and J upiter, 249 Britain and Ireland, and Empress of

The hours of Mars, Sun, Venus, and Mer- India 3^
cury, 25° Remarks on reading Queen Victoria's Horo-

The hour of Moon, 25 1 scope at a public lecture, 311

Remarks on the planetary hours, 251 Remarks on the Horoscope of Prince Albert, 312
The reason planetary hours have not been The picture of Prince Albert 313

more generally made use of, 252 The portrait of Queen Victoria at 20 years
The hours of good planets and the hours of of age, 3H

evil planets may vary in their influence , Picture of Queen Victoria at the age of 79, 315
in certain horoscopes, 25 The Revolutionary Chart of Queen Victoria

Tables of planetary hours, and the reason from May 24th, 1898. to May 24th, 1899, 316
why they vary in length, 254 Remarks on the Revolutionary and Second-

Perpetual table of planetary hours from sun- ary Directions of Queen Victoria, 316
rise, until 2 hours after sunset, 255 Queen Victoria's Secondary Directions from

Table of planetary hours from sunrise until May 24th, 1898, to May 24th, 1899, J*7
2 hours after sunset on every alternate Horoscope of Lillian Russell, 319
Wednesday of any year, 282 Chart of the Heavens for the time of birth

The difference between clock or mean and of Lillian Russell, 319
solar time, 285 Pictures of Lillian Russell's first and second

Perpetual Table of Equation of Time, 286 husbands, 320
Different methods of measuring time by the Picture of Lillian Russsll and her third

Heavenly Bodies, 286 husband, 321
Elections or choosing a fortunate time to Picture of Lillian Russell and reported

commence new business, removal or fourth husband, 322
remarkable changes, 287 Horoscope of Lord George Gordon Byron, 324

Election for laying the first stone, 288 Chart of the Heavens for Lord Byron's birth, 324
Elections for buying or renting a house, Picture ot Lord George Gordon Byron,.. . . 325

lands or tenements, etc., 288 Marriage of Lord Byron 326
Elections for removal from one house to " Byron's Farewell to England," 330

another, , 288 Horoscope of the Young King of Spain,... . 332
Election for entering into new business, Chart of the Heavens for the time of birth

office or employment, 288 of the Young Kins of Spain,. 332
Election for commencing a trade or profes- Picture of Alphonso XIII., King of Spain,

sion,.., 289 his Mother, and his two Sisters, 333
Election for Marriage, 289 Heredity and Planetary Influence, 334
Election for proposing Marriage, 290 Horoscope of the multi-millionaire, Jay
Election for introduction to Ladies and Gould 336

Gentlemen, , 290 Portrait nt Jay Gould, 337
Election for going on a Journey, 291 Seven concise reasons why everyone should
Election for Navigation or going on a have a reading of their lives, 339

Voyage, 291 Horoscope of Charles Dickens 340
Election for Collecting a Debt or Money that Chart of the Heavens for the time of birth

is owing......... 292 of Charles Dickens, 340
Elections to make friendship to brothers, Portrait of Charles Dickens, 341

sisters, kindred, neighbors, etc., 292 Horoscope of Gen. Ulysses Simpson Grant, 343
Elections for hiring servants or employees,. 292 Picture of Gen. Grant, .. . 344
Some choice rules or aphorisms for election Chart of the Heavens for Gen. Grant's birth, 345

relating to several undertakings,.. .... 292 Horoscope of President George Washington, 346
Elections for duels and lawsuits, 293 Chart of the Heavens for the time of Gen.
Remarks on the time that some persons George Washington's birth, 346

that we know of have got married and Picture of Gen. George Washington, 347
the result, especially that of Mr. and Prof. Draper on William Lilly's Astrology, 349
Mrs. Langtry . ... 294 Sickness and Allopathic treatment of Gen.

Horoscope of Hon. William McKinley, ... . 295 George Washington 349
Chart of the Heavens for the time of birth The physician's report of Gen. Washington's

of Hon. William McKinley, ... .. 296 last illness, 350
What t lie Stars Say, from the "Baltimore Modern medication, or the Allopathic treat-

Am Mican," .... 297 ment of Mr. Maybrick, 351
Hon. William J. Bryan's Horoscope, ... . 298 Dr. Brown-Sequard's Elixir of Life, 351
Chart of the Heavens for Hon. W. J. Dr. Koch's remedy for Consumption, 351

Bryan's time of birth, 299 Mr. Pasteur and Prof. Verneiiil's remarks
The two Con ven lions, 300 on Dr. Koch's remedy for Consumption, 352
Further remarks on the Horoscopes of A cure for the bite of a rattlesnake, 352

President McKinley, and Hon. William " Who are the regulars and who are the
J. Bryan, and their nominations 300 quacks ?" 352

Chart of the Heavens when Hon William The ingredients and prescriptions sent by
McKinley was nominated for President, 301 Allopathic doctors to Samuel Boyer for

Chart of the Heavens for the time of the the cure of dyspepsia, ... 353
nomination for President of Hon. Dr. Trumbull W. Cleveland's prescription
William J. Bryan, 301 for Mrs. James L. Carhart's babv, 354

Horoscope for the sailing of the Geiman The second prescription of Dr. Cleveland
Fleet for China, 305 andhis treatment of Mrs. Carhart's baby, 355

Chart of the Heavens for the time of mar- Persecution of Homeopathic and Botanic
riage of Mr. and Mrs. Langtry, 307 Practitioners,.,. 356



XXIV CONTENTS.

Page Page
Allopathic physicians endeavoring to sup- Bayard Taylor's comparison of Christianity

press patent medicines by having laws and Mohammedism,.. 417
enacted against their manufacture 357 Third:—The change from the Ptolemaic to

The objections to the science of Astrology the Copernican system of Astronomy,. 418
answered, 358 The reason I have not produced any facts

The planet Neptune, 362 in regard to Astrology, is that Richard
Neptune in the 1 2 houses, 363 A. Proctor ignored them, 419
The aspects of Neptune, 364 Every science is gradually built up from
Horoscope of President Cleveland and Jof facts which are gathered from observa-

Ex-President Harrison, 365 tion and experiment, 420
Horoscope of Grover Cleveland, 366 Dr. Caldwell's remarks on Dr Salmon,.. 420
Horoscope of Benjamin Harrison, 367 Had Mr. Proctor been acquainted with any
Chait of President Harrison's birth, 368 Astrologers, it no doubt would have
Further remarks on the horoscopes of Ex- changed his opinion on Astrology,.. . 421

President Harrison, 369 Dr. Cox and Homeopathy 421
A few remarks on the horoscope of Presi- Mr. Proctor convicts himself, after being his

dent Cleveland, 370 own judge and jury, 422
Esther Cleveland's nativity, 371 The influence of planets on the stature and
The Baby's horoscope, 373 build of individuals, 423
The horoscope of Emperor William III of The influence of the planets on happy and

Germany, 375 unhappy marriages, 423
The horoscope of the third French Republic, 377 The change of opinion in regard to Astrology
Why I am an Astrologer, 378 by the editors and persons connected
Preface 379 with the New York World, since they
Introductory remarks, 380 published Proctor's "Humbug of As-
Sentence of Mr. Romain to 18 months im- trology," 424

prisonment by Judge Gordon, of Phila- Herbert Spencer's epitaph on Proctor's
delphia, Pa.,... 380 tomb, 425

1—Why I undertook to write this pamphlet, 381 To the Reader, 427
2—The object I wish to accomplish by the Discussions in favor of Astrology and

present publication, 383 assertions against it, 429
A letter to the editor of the New York First:—arguments in favor of Astrology,. .. 429

World, by the Author 384 The Pastoral Letter, 431
An introduction to the Reader, 387 Second:—Assertions of those who oppose
A letter of introduction, 388 Astrology, • 432
The Author's extensive acquaintance,. . .. 388 Chambers in their 'Information for the
Remarks on Chailes A. Dana's periodical People on Phrenology, 433

fits of insanity, 391 Third:—Chambers's Encyclopedia on As-
How the innocent suffer by corrupt laws, 392 trology, 433
If Charles A. Dana had lived 300 years ago John Partridge's Almanac published by the

lie would have advocated laws to pre- Missionary Society of London 433
vent people from reading the Bible,.. .. 393 Changing of the opinion in regard to William

The Author's persecution at 814 Broadway, 394 Lilly and Astrology, in Encyclopedias,. 434
Astrological Society, 395 Thomas Dickon the Absurdity of Astrology, 435
How Israel Holdsworth came to republish Rev. Thomas Dick puffing Astrology, 436

White's Ephemeris, 395 Astrologers in Rome and their persecution, 438
The reason Mr. Chanev republished White's Penny Magazine's Refutation of Astrolagy, 439

Ephemeris in the United States, 396 The ridiculous conclusions of the Penny
Why I came to have the planet Neptune's Magazine, 441

longitude calculated, 397 Quotations from a number of Astrological
The scarcity of Astrologers and Astrological books proving it, 441

Ephemerides in the United States, 397 The Author of the Penny Magazine and
An account of both my grand fathers, . . . 398 their Refutation of Astrology, 443
Why I came to lecture on Astrology at 814 The minister of the Gospel—remarks on the

Broadway, 400 wickedness of Astrology, 444
**~

1 fijssor Richard A . Proctor, on Astrology, 401 All the writings against Astrology are gen-
The Humbug of Astrology, 401 erally shallow and nonsensical, 444
The New York World refused to publish Extracts from Francis Moore's almanac,. . 445

my answer to Richard A. Proctor 404 The eclipses for 1768, 446
Reply to Mr. Proctor which the New York The impostor Dr. Roeback of Philadelphia, 452

World refused to publish,. 405 Death of Amee Smith in the Hotel Victor,
The Author's criticism on Mr. Proctor and New York, 453

the New York World, 407 "Unparalleled outrages" against Astrology
Riots in London caused by the repeal of and Astrologers. W. H. Chaney 454

tyrannical laws in 1778, 408 " The Gospel of the Stars or the Wonders
Astrology and Astronomy in ancient times, 409 of Astrology," Mr. James Hingston,.. 462
The diseases of the body supposed to be Laying the corner stone of the School of

caused by evil spirits or devils, 410 Theosophy,. 4°4
Comparing Astrology with Music, 411 Rules for laying corner stones, 4°°
The persecutions by the Catholic Church Theosophists all Awry, 4°7

and the burning of John Huss, 412 Picture of the Tower of Babel. 468
The assumptions of Richard A. Proctor,.. 413 Description of the Tower of Babel, 4°9
First:—The christian religion, 413 Scientists all agree that Astrology is a de-
Second:—Reformation and witchcraft, 415 basing superstion, but they all disagree
A miracle is Legitimate witchcraft, and among themselves, 47°

witchcraft is an Illegitimate miracle 416 " Azrael" on the harmonv of all Astrologers, 47 \



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. XXV

A GLOSSARY OF ASTROLOGICAL TERMS.
Affliction. A planet, or the cusp of a house, being in evil aspect to any planet, or in Con-

junction with a malefic.
A iry Signs. Gemini, Libra and Aquarius.
Ambient. The whole canopy of the heavens, when spoken of in a general way.
Angles. The ist, 4th, 7th and 10th houses.
Application—to apply. These terms mean the approach of any planet to the body or aspect

of another, or the cusp of any house.
Ascential Difference. (A. D.) This, added to its right ascension (A. R.) if it have south

declination, but subtracted therefrom if it lias north declination, gives its oblique ascension.
Ascendant. The eastern horizon, or the cusp of that house which represents the party; as

the cusp of the 5th is the ascendant for a child of the querent.
Ascending, a term denoting any planet or sign, which are between the 4th and 10th houses,

more especially when rising above the eastern horizon.
Aspect. The being placed at certain distances from a planet, or the cusp of a house, as, if

Jupiter be 60 degrees from the Moon, then ihey are both said to be in sextile aspect to each other.
Barren Signs. Gemini, Leo and Virgo.
Benejics The two planets Jupiter and Venus, and sometimes Herschel.
Bestial Signs. Aries, Taurus, Leo, Sagittarius, (the first half excepted) and Capricorn.
Besieged is when a planet, fortunate by nature, is situated between two malevolent planets

as Venus, in 12 degrees of Cancer, Saturn in 15 degrees, and Herschel in 10 degrees of the same
sign ; where she is in a state of "siege," and highly unfortunate. He whose significator it was,
would be denoted thereby to be in "a great strait," and particularly "hemmed in'' or surrounded
with ill fortune.

Bi'or/oreal Signs. Gemini, Sagittarius and Pisces.
Cadent. So called, because they are fallen from the angles. These are the weakest of all the

houses.
Cardinal Signs. Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn.
Cazimi. The heart of the Sun, or being within 17 minutes of the exact longitude of the Sun;

which is considered a strong position, but, we think, erroneously.
Circle of Position. An astronomical term used in calculating the polar elevation of any

planet. They are small circles bearing the same relation lo a meridian circle which the paralellsof
latitude do to the equator

Collection of Light. In Horary questions when a planet receives the aspects of any two
others which are not themselves in aspect. It denotes that the affair will be forwarded by a third
person, described by that planet ; but not unless they both receive him in some of their dignities.

Combustion, is when a planet is posited within 8 degrees 30 minutes of the Sun, either before
or after the Sun's body. In horary questions, unless the Sun is chief significator, this is deemed
unfortunate. The Moon is singularly weak when so elongated.

Common Signs. Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces.
Conjunction. Two planets being in the same longitude. If they be exactly in the same

degree and minute, it is a partite conjunction, and very powerful ; if within the half of the sum of
the ; r two orbs, it is a platic conjunction, and less powerful.

Converse Motion. Is that which is caused by the diurnal rotation of the Earth on its axis,
which makes the Sun, Moon, etc , appear to rise, approach the meridian, set, etc. It applies
particularly to the Sun and Moon, when they are carried towards the proinittors or their aspects.

Culminate. To arrive at the midheaven, or the cusp of the 10th house.
Cusp. The beginning of any house, and the cusp extends 5 degrees on each side of the line.

Debilities. A planet in a weak and afflicted position, as fall, detriment, etc.

Declination. The distance any heavenly body is from the equator.
Decreasing in Light. When any planet is past the opposition of the Sun, decreases in light

this is a testimony of weakness.
Decumibture. A lying down ; the figure erected for the time of any person being first taken

ill, and taking to their bed.
Degree The 30th part of a sign in the Zodiac ; or the 360th part of any circle.

Descendant. The 7th house, or that space from the western horizon to one-third of the dis-
tance towards the meridian above the earth.

Descension. The going down of any body from the meridian above the Eartli to that below
it ; for though the Sun is lost sight of at sunset, he still descends till he reaches the anti-meridian
at midnight.

Detriment. The sign opposite the house of any planet ; as Venus in Aries is in her detri-
ment. In horary questions it is a sign of weakness, distress, etc.

Direct. As applied to planets denotes their moving in the true order of the celestial signs, as
from Aries to Taurus, etc.

Direction. The measuring the space between the bodies of any two planets, or that between
any two parts of the heavens, to ascertain at what period of life the promised effect will appear.
Their distance is a certain number of degrees of the A R. of the Sun, which, when he has passed
over the direction is complete It is called the Arc of Direction.

Direction, Secondary The aspects formed by the Moon in the days immediately succeeding
the birth. Each day between the birth and the time the aspect is formed is equal to one exact year
of life; thus, if the Moon form a good aspect with Jupiter, exactly 21 days to the hour and minute
after birth, the native will feel its effects about his 21st birthday.

Direct Motion. This is in reality converse motion, but is so called to distinguish the case of
the promittors being carried towards the bodies or aspects of the Sun or Moon, which directions
are considered somewhat less powerful than those by converse motion.



. i

XXVI ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Diurnal Arc. Is the length of time that part cf the heavens in which any planet is at birth
above the Earth ; and it is usually measured by degrees.

Dispose, Dispositor. A planet disposes of any other which may be found in its essential dig-
nities. Thus, if the Sun is in Aries, the house of Mars, then Mars disposes of the Sun, and is

said to rule, receive, or govern him. In horary questions when the dispositor of the planet signi-
fying the thing asked after is himself disposed by the lord of the ascendant, it is a good sign. To
dispose by house is the most powerful testimony ; then by exaltation, then triplicity, then term, and
lastly, face, which is a very weak reception.

Double-bodied Signs. Gemini, Sagittarius and Pisces.

Dragon's Head. Is .the north node of the Moon, or when she crosses the ecliptic into north
latitude. It is always a good symbol, denoting success, a good disposition, etc.

Dragon"1s Tail. Is where the Moon crosses the eel ptic into south latitude, or her south node.
It is very evil, and in all things the reverse of Dragon's Head ; it diminshes the power of good,
and increases that of evil planets.

Earthy Signs. Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn which form the earthy triplicity.
Ephemeris. An almanac of the planets' places. The best is Raphael's Ephemeris.
Equinoctial Signs. Aries and Libra.
Exaltation. An essential dignity, next in power to that of house.
Face. The third part of a sign, or ten degrees decollate.

Fall. A planet has its fall in the opposite sign to that in which it has its exaltation. In
horary questions, a planet in its fall denotes a person unfortunate, despised, degenerated, mean,
insolvent or helpless ; and the thing signified by it is in a helpless state, except some good aspect
by application, or some translation of light happen, which wi'.l relieve it quite unexpected.

Familiarity. Any kind of aspect or reception.
Feminine Signs. Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Libra, Capricorn and Pisces.
Fiery Signs, or Fiery Triplicity. Aries, Leo and Sagittarius.
Figure. The diagram which represents the heavens at any time ; it is also called a scheme

or horoscope
Fortitudes. Influences of the planets made stronger by being well posited.
Fortunes- Jupiter and Venus and the Sun ; Moon and Mercury, if aspecting them, and not

afflicted, are considered fortunate planets.
Fixed Signs. Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and Aquarius.
Fruitful Signs. Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces.
Frustration. The cutting off, or preventing anything shown by one aspect by means of

another. Thus, if Venus, lady of the ascendant, were hastening to the trine of Mars, lord of the
7th in a question of marriage, it might denote that the marriage would take place ; but if Mercury
were to form an opposition to Mais before Venus reached her trine of that planet, it would be a
frustration, and would show that the hopes of the querent would be cut off; if Mercury were
lord of the 12th it might denote that it would be done by a secret enemy, if of the 3d by means of
a relation, etc.

Geniture- The moment of time an infant is brought into the world.
Horary Qicestiou. So named^from the Latin word liora, an hour, because the time of their

being asked is noted, and the chart of the heavens for that time is taken to judge of the result.
Horoscope. The ascendant is sometimes so called ; but it is more generally a term for the

figure of the heavens used by Astrologers for predicting by nativities, mundane Astrology, and
horary questions.

Houses. The twelve divisions or compartments into which the circle of the heavens is divided ;

also the signs in which any planet is said to have most influence.
HumatftSigns Gemini, Virgo, Aquarius, and the first half of Sagittarius. Any person's

significator therein shows them to be of a human disposition.
Hyleg. Sun, Moon or the ascendant is the giver of life.

Hylegiacal Places. The 1st house, from 5 degrees above to 25 degrees below its cusp ; 7th
house, from 5 degrees below to 25 degrees above its cusp ; the 9th house, from 5 degrees outside
its cusp to 25 degrees below the nth house. If the Sun is in any of those places it is "hyleg ; '' if

not, then if the Moon is injany of these places it is" hyleg," if it is not, then the ascendant is "hyleg."
hnpedited. This signifies being afflicted by evil pianets. The Moon is impedited in the highest

degree when in conjunction with the Sun.
Ingress. A planet's transit over a place, the Sun, Moon, mid-heaven or ascendant, or has

arrived at any point in the Zodiac.
Increase in Light. When any planet is leaving the Sun, and is not yet arrived at the oppo-

sition ; after which it decreases in light - The former is a good, the latter an evil testimony,
especially as regards the Moon.

Increasing in Motion. When any planet moves faster than it did on the preceding day.
Inferior Planets. Venus, Mercury, and the Moon ; so called because their orbit is inferior

to that of the Earth.
In/ortunes- Uranus, Saturn and Mars ; also Mercury when he is much afflicted.

htterceptcd. A sign which is found between the cusps of two houses, and not on either of
them.

yoined to. Being in any aspect.
Latitude. The distance any star, etc., is north or south of the ecliptic. The Sun never has

any latitude. Latitude on the earth is the distance any place is north or south of the equator.
Lights. The Sun and Moon.
Light of Time- The Sun by day and the Moon by night.
Longitude. On the Earth is the distance from anv place east or west of Greenwich, England;

in the heavens, it is the distance of any body from the first point of the Zodiac, Aries, o degrees
o minutes, measured on the ecliptic.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. XXVII

Lords. Planets which have tlie most influence or powerful effects in particular signs. Thus,
if Aries ascend in any chart, Mars, which rules that sign, is the lord of the ascendant.

Lunation- The conjunction, square or opposition of the Sun and Moon, also the length of
time in which the Moon appears to move around the Earth ; the time from new Moon to new Moon.

Malefic s. Uranus, Saturn and Mars.
Malefic Aspects are the Semisquare, Square, Sesquisquare, Opposition and Conjunction of

evil planets. When planets are found at the distances which constitute these aspects, they act
very evil for the native.

Masculine and Feminine. Saturn, Jupiter, Mars and Sun are masculine, and Venus and
Moon are feminine. Mercury is masculine or feminine according as he aspects the former or the
latter.

Masculine Signs. Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittary and Aquarius. The others are
feminine

Matutine. Appearing in the morning ; that is, those stars or planets which rise before the Sun.
Mean Motion* That of Saturn is 2 minutes; Jupiter, 4 minutes 59 seconds ; Mars, 33 min-

utes 2S seconds; the Sun, 59 minutes 8 seconds; and Moon 13 degrees 10 minutes.
Mundane Parallels are equal distances from the meridian.
Nativity. The birth of any one. It is the instant that the infant first draws breadth. It also

signifies the map of the heavens at that instant.
Nebulas. Clusters of stars that look like clouds.
Neomenium. The new Moon or change of the Moon.
Nocturnal Arc. The space through which any body in the heavens passes while under the

horizon.
Northern Signs. Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo and Virgo.
Oblique Ascension. A part of the equator that rises in an oblique sphere, when one pole is

elevated and the other depressed.
Oblique Sphere. One in which all circles parallel to the equator are oblique to the horizon,

and form acute angles with it.

Occidental. Western.
Orb ofa Planet. The distance within which a planet continues to operate. The orbs are

Saturn 9 degrees, Jupiter 12 degrees, Mars 7 degrees 30 minutes. Sun 17 degrees, Venus 8 degrees,
Mercury 7 degrees, the Moon 12 degrees. The orb of the fixed signs is 5 degrees. The angles also
are effected by any star or planet within 5 degrees of the cusp.

Oriental- Eastern. If a star is to the east of the M. C., it is oriental ; if otherwise, it is

occidental. But the Sun is said to be oriental only when he is applying to or approaching the
meridian, and occidental when leaving it.

Parallels. The zodiacal parallel signifies having the same declination or distance from the
equator, north or south. This is a very potent familiarity.

Parents. The Sun and Saturn signify the father. The Moon and Venus signify the mother.
Their condition is shown by the strength and condition of these in the native's nativity.

PartHe. An exact or perfect aspect agreeing to the very minute.
Part of Fortune. The point in the heavens which is equally distant from the ascendant as

the Moon is from the Sun in longitude.
Perigee- The part of a planet's orbit where it is nearest to the Earth.
Peregrine- A peregrine planet is one having no kind of essential dignity. He usually signi-

fies a thief in ali questions of theft.

Periodical Lunation. The time required by the Moon to return to her own place, viz., 27
days 7 hours and 41 minutes.

Planets- These are Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury Moon and Uranus. We
may now say Neptune also. The asteroids we do not consider.

Planetary Hours. Hours ruled by the planets. These hours are counted from the outward
planet Saturn inward to the Moon. The hours of the day are counted from sunrise to sunset and
of the night from sunset to sunrise.

Platic. This means wide It is used to signify some aspect within half the sum of the orbs
of the two bodies or planets.

Promissor. The planet which promises to produce the event. The planet applying to the
significator, or to which the latter applies. In nativities that planet to which the Sun, Moon,
M C-, or the ascendant applies is the promissor, they being significators.

Proper Motion. That which is direct through the Zodiac, in contradiction to the mundane
motion, or that caused by the dailv rotation of the earth on its axis.

Prorogator. The planet which upholds life.
Quartile. The square aspect of 90 degrees in the Zodiac; and of three houses in the map or

figure of the heavens.
Querent. ' The person who enquires or asks a horary question.
Quesited. The thing or person enquired about.
Quintile. An aspect of 72 degrees, not very potent.
Radical. That which belongs to the radix or figure of the birth.
Radical Elections. Times chosen or elected for commencing undertakings. They chiefly

depend on the aspects then forming to the Sun, Moon, M. C or ascendant at birth. Thus if
Jupiter is on the ascendant, or in trine thereto, it is a good time to elect for any change to restore
health.

Rapt Motion. The daily motion of the heavens from east to west.
Rapt Parallels. Equal distances from the meridian formed by rapt motion and measured by

the semi-arcs of the bodies moved.
Rays. Beams of influence, constituting aspects.
Reception. The disposing of one planet by another, in consequence of receivmg it into its

dignities.



XXVIII ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Rectification. The discovery of the true moment of the birth by comparing the periods of
events in life with the aspects chat produce them.

Refranation. Is when two planets are approaching an aspect, one of them falls retrograde
before the aspect is complete. This shows that the event promised by the aspect will come to
nothing.

Retrograde. When a planet appears to move backward, or contrary to the regular order of the
signs, it shows that nothing promised by that planet can be relied upon. In nativities it shows that
the planet will do very little or no good by his aspects, unless he is otherwise extremely well dig-
nified, etc.

Revolutions. The return of the Sun to its place at birth . The aspects then formed, especially
those :o the radical places, denote the general influences during the year.

Right Ascension. An arc of the equator, reckoned from tlie first point of Aries.
Right Distance. The distance of any point from another, measured by right ascension.
Right Sphere. One in which all the circles are parallel to the equator form right angles with

the horizon.
Satellites. Minor bodies which move about others; as the Moon above the Earth.
Scheme. A map of the heavens.
Semi-arc. Haifa diurnal or nocturnal arc.

Semiquartile- A half a square, or half of 90 degrees ; viz., 45 degrees. It is an evil aspect.
Separation. When two planets having been in partile aspect to each other begin to move

away therefrom. If all the significators are separating in a question of marriage, it shows that no
marriage will occur. So in other things.

Sesqui-square. A square and a half, or 135 degrees. It is evil, but less potent than a square.
Significator. The planet ruling the ascendant is always the significator of the querent.
Signs 0/Long Ascension. Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio and Sagittary.
Signs 0/ Short Ascension. Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces, Aries, Taurus, Gemini.
Southern Signs. Libra, Scorpio, Sagittary, Capricorn and Pisces ; they being to the south of

the equator.
S/>eculum. A table comprising the chief data from which directions are to be worked or cal-

culated in a nativity. It contains the latitude, declination, right ascension, meridian distance (in

right ascension) and semi arc of each planet.
Stationary. When a planet appears to stand still in the heavens in consequence of the earth's

motion being different from the planet's motion.
Succedent. Those houses which follow the angles. They are the second, fifth, eighth and

eleventh.
Superior Planets. Uranus, Saturn, Jupiter and Mars.
Sympathy. Where the significator in one nativity, is in the same place in the Zodiac that it

is in another nativity, then there is a mutual sympathy found between those persons. The
strongest is where the Sun in one nativity is on the place of the Moon in another; if the Moon
is found in the same position in each nativity, it causes love between the sexes, and a feeling of
sympathy between those of the same sex. If the two ascendants are opposed, or if an evil planet
in one nativity is on the place of the Sun or Moon in another, there is no sympathy and possibly
antipathy or hatred. If all the planets agree or are in good aspect in two nativities, there is a very
strong sympathy, which generally lasts until death ; and in the case of a male and feniaie causes
"Love at first sight."

Table ofHouses. A table giving the longitude of the signs for each house.
Term. An essential dignity, less potent than anv other except the face.

Testimony. Any aspect, or position of a significator in a horary question, bearing on the
matter by being in configuration with some other significator. In nativities, the positions of the
several planets, as regards the Sun, Moon, M.C., and ascendant, are testimonies ol good or evil to
the native.

Transits. The passages of the planets over the places of the Sun, Moon, M.C., or ascendant,
of the horoscope at the birth.

Translation 0/ Light. When one planet separates from the conjunction or aspect of another,
and soon after forms a conjunction or aspect with a third, he is said to translate the light of the one
he leaves to the one which he approaches. It denotes aid or assistance in bringing some matter
to a conclusion by a person described by the planet so translating the light.

Travelling. The luminaries, or Mars, falling away from the angles, chiefly if into the ninth
house, cause travelling. This will be more so if the Moon aspect Mercury, and they are in move-
able signs.

Trigons. These are the four triplicities, viz.: Fiery, Aries, Leo. Sagittary ; Earthy, Taurus,
Virgo, Capricorn ; Airy. Gemini, Libra, Aquarius; Watery, Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces.

Triplicity- See Trigon.
Tropical Signs. Cancer and Capricorn.
Under the Sunbeams. Within 17 degrees of the Sun. A planet so situated is weak, but

more so if combust, within 8 degrees 30 minutes.
Void 0/ Course. When planets form no aspect before they leave the sign. It is noticed

chiefly in regard to the Moon in horary questions. It usually shows that nothing will come of the
matter in question. It often shows that the question is not radical.

Zenith. The point exactly over head.
Zodiac. The belt of the heavens, in which the Sun and all the old planets move.
Zodiacal Aspects. Those aspects, or angles, in the heavens, measured by the degrees of the

Zodiac. See Aspects.
Zodiacal Paralells. The parallels of declination, or points in the heavens at equal distances

from the equator. These have great and lasting power in nativities, especially when formed at the
birth.



ALPHABETICAL INDEX.
In addition to the contents the author has inserted an Alphabetical Index, which

is more convenient for students, enabling them to readily find any special rule or
principle in this science that they may wish to use in their practice.

Page Page
A Glossary of Astrological Terms. . ..xxv Children 167
A Brief History of Astrology by its Ciiticismon the New York Times,

Friends or Advocates 8 and other remarks on Astrology. 171
A Short History of Astn logy by its Criticism on Cbas. A. Dana, editor of

Enemies 12 the New York Sun—remarks on
Astrology in London, by Edgar Lee.. 45 Astrology 174
Action and Reaction of One Planet Chart of the Heavens for tLe time of

on Another 65 birth of Hon. William McKinlev 296
A blank chart of the Heavens, show- Chart of the Heavens for Hon. W. J.

ing the position and number of Bryan's time of birth 299
Houses 88 Chart of the Heavens when Hon.Wil-

Advice to Students studving Astrolo- liam McKinley was nominated for
gy 93 , President 301

Acquire a regular system of reading Chart of the Heavens for the time
a Horoscope 156 of the nomination for President

A Synopsis of Medical Astrology 183 of Hon. William J. Bryan 301
A table of the Friendship and En- Chart of the Heavens for the time of

mities of the Planets. 241 marriage of Mr. and Mrs. Lang-
Aspects of the Planets 242 try 307
A cure for the bite of a rattlesnake. . 352 Chart of the Heavens for the time of
Allopathic physicians endeavoring birth of Lillian Russell 319

to suppress patent medicines by Chart of the Heavens for Lord
haviDg laws enacted against Byron's birth 324
their manufacture 357 Chart of the Heavens for the time of

A few remarks on the horoscope of birth of the young King of Spain 332
President Cleveland 370 Chart of the Heavens for the time of

A letter to the editor of the New birth of Charles Dickens 340
York World by the au thor 384 Chart of the Heavens for Gen.

An introduction to the reader 5-87 Gran t*s birth 315
A letter of introduction 388 Chart of the Heavens for the time
Astrological Society 395 cf Gen. George Washingtoa's
An account of both my grand- birth 3-16

fathers 398 Chart of President Harrison's birth. 368
Astrology and Astronomy in ancient Comparing Astrology with music 411

times , 409 Chambers in their Information for
A miracle is Legitimate witchcraft, the People on Phrenology 433

and witchcraft is an Illegitimate Cbangrins' of the opinion in regard to
miracle 416 William Lilly and Astrology, in

Astrologers in Rome and their perse- Encyclopaedias 434
cution 438 Dr. Mesmer and Animal Magnetism,

All the writings against Astrology and the French Academy of Sci-
are generally shallow and nonsen- ence 32
sical 444 Benjamin Franklin and the Light-

" Azrael" on the harmony of all As- ning Rod 32
trologers 471 Diagram of the Solar System. ... 67

Business and Henor 163 Divisions of the sigr s of the Zodiac. 95
Business or Profession in which the Disposition and Temper 162

native will be unfortunate 196 Diseases caused by the planets 187
" Byron's Farewell to England." 330 Different grades of believers in As-
Bayard Taylor's comparison of trology 246

Christianity and Mohammedism. 417 Different methods of measuring time
"Chambers' Encyclopcedia" on As- by the Heaven y Bodies 286

trology 19 Dr. Brown-Pequard's Elixir of Life . 351
Chinese and Astrology, and their Dr. Koch's remedy for Consumption. 351

Method of making use of it in Dr.Trumbull W. Cleveland's prescrip-
their Marriages 35 tion for Mrs. James L. Carhart's

Correspondence with Dr. L. D. baby 354
Broughton, O. D. Bradgen, and A. Dr. Caldwell's remarks on Dr. Salmon 420
N. Doerschuk on writing of horo- Dr. Cox and Homeopathy 421
scones 50 Discussions in favor of Astrology and

Critical times—stirring periods 69 assertions against it 429
Chart of the Heavens for the time Death of Aimee Smith in the Hotel

that President McKinley took the Victor, New York 453
oath of office 146 Description of the Tower of Babel.. 469

Chart of the Heavens for a girl born Elements of Astrology—Introduction 5
July 2d, 1884, at 8:35 A. M., New Elements of Astrology—Rudiments of
York City 152 the Science 87

Claudius Ptolemy—reasons for allot- Explanation of the Table of Essen-
ing the signs to the planets 154 tial Dignities 236



XXX ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Page Page
Elections, or choosing a fortunate How to describe a person born under

time to commence new business, the planet Mercury in the sign
removal or remarkable changes.. 287 Cancer 177

Election for laying the first stone.... 288 Health and Life 178
Elections for buying or renting a How to judge if a horoscope is for-

house, lands or tenements, etc... 288 tunate or unfortunate 191
Elections for removal from one house How to find the time of day a person

to another 288 sborn; also how to correct the
Election for entering into new busi- wr^ngtime of birth 228

ness, office or employment 288 Historical remarks on the Essential
Election for commencing a trade or Dignities of the planets 239

profession 289 Horoscope of Hon. William McKin-
Election for Marriage 289 ley 295
Election for proposing Marriage £90 Hon. William J. Bryan's Horoscope. 2a8
Election for introduction to Ladies Horoscope for the sailing of the Ger-

and Gentlemen « 2f man Fleet for China 305
Election for going on a Journey .... 291 Horoscope of Victoria, Queen of
Election for Navigation or going on Great Britain and Ireland, and

aVoyaee 291 Empress of India 310
Election for Collecting a Debt or Horoscope of Lillian Russell 319

Money that is owing 292 Horoscope of Lord George Gordon
Elections to nake friendship to Byron 324

brothers, sisters, kindred, neigh- Horoscope of the Young King of
bors, etc 292 Spain 332

Elections for hiring servants or em- Heredity and Planetary Influence. . . 334
ployees 292 Horoscope of the multi-millionaire,

Elections for duels and lawsuits 293 Jay Gould 336
Esther Cleveland's nativity 371 Horoscope of Charles Dickens 340
Every science is gradually built up Horoscope of Gen. Ulysses Simpson

from facts which are gathered Grant 343
from observation and experiment 420 Horoscope of President George

Extracts from Francis Moore's Al- Washington 346
manac 445 Horoscope of President Cleveland

Friends and Enemies 1*53 and of Ex-President Harrison. . . . 365
Friends and Enemes 176 Horoscope of Grover Cleveland 366
Fortunate and Unfortunate periods Horoscope of Benjamin Harrison 367

of the various contingencies or How the innocent suffer by corrupt
events of life 180 laws 392

Further remarks on t he horoscopes of H ow Israel Holdsworth came to re-
President McKinley and Hon. publish White's Ephemeris <395
William J. Bryan, and their nomi- Had Mr. Proctor been acquainted
nations 300 with any Astrologers it no doubt

Further remarks on the horoscope would have changed his opinion
of Ex-President Harrison 369 on Astrology 421

First:—The Christian religi n 413 Herbert Spencer's epitaph on Proc-
First:—Arguments in favor of As- tor's tomb 425

trology 429 Important era in history (Salem
General appearance of persons de- Witchcraft) 70

scribed by the 12 signs of Zodiac. 97 Introductory remarks. ... 380
General advice to the student in If Charles A. Dana had lived 300

learning the description of per- years ago he would have advo-
sons 104 cated laws to prevent people

Good and evil planetary hours 244 from reading the Bible 393
Harry Howard, his execution for John Kepler's Discoveries in As-

murder, and Hypnotism 33 tronomy and Astrology 21
Horoscope of the assassination of John Dreyden, Cardinal Richelieu

Carrie Brown ("Old Shakes- and Sir Isaac Newton, Astrolo-
peare 11

) 84 gers „ 22
Horoscope of the assassination of Jupiter in the 12 signs 108

Mr. Andrew J. Borden and his Joys of the planets 239
wife, August 4th, 1*92. 85 John Partridge's Almanac,published

Herschel mthe 12signsof theZodiac. 105 by the Missionary Society of Lon-
Horoscope of the Inauguration of don 433

Hon. William McKinley 143 Lessons and Books on Astrology xx
Horoscope erected for the time that Lords or Rulers of the signs of the

the Extra Session of Congress Zodiac 153
met at Washington, D. C, March Lord of the first house in each of the
15th, 1897, at 12 Noon 150 12 houses 199

How to calculate the "Part of For- Lord of the second in the 12 houses.. 201
tune 11

.... 151 Lord or the third in the 12 houses. . . 202
How to describe a person by the Lord of the fourth in the 12 houses.. 204

planets and the signs of the Zo- Lord of the fifth in the 12 houses 205
diac 159 Lord of the sixth in the 12 houses *06

Health It7 Lord of the seventh in the 12 houses. 203
Horo&cope of the Chinese Consul's Lord of the eighth in the 12 houses. . 210

Son 175 Lord of the ninth in the 12 houses. . . 212



1

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. XXXI

Page Page
Lord of the tenth in the 12 houses. . . 213 Picture of Lord George Gordon By-
Lord of the eleventh in the 12 houses 215 ron 325
Lord of the twelfth in the 12 houses. 217 Picture of Alphonso XIII, King of
Laying the corner stone of the Spain, his Mother and his two

School of Theosophy 461 Sisters 333
Mrs. MaudS., the New York Times, Portrait of Jay Gould 337

and Astrology 36 Portrait of Charles Dicken3 341
Mrs. Maud S.'s Daughter's Horoscope 38 Picture of Gen. Grant 344
Misrepresentation of Astrology 60 Picture of Gen. George Washington. 347
Mars in opposition to the Sun 67 Prof. Draper on William Lilly's As-
Meteorology and Planetary Influence 72 trology 349
Mars in the 12 signs 110 Persecution of Homeopathic and
Mercury in the 12 sgns 117 Botanic Practitioners 356
Mental Abilities 162 Preface 380
Morals and Religion—relations and Professor Richard A. Proctor on As-

journeys 163 trology 401
Marriage 164 Pennv Magazine's refutation of As-
Marriage and Children 179 trology 439
Mental Abilities 193 Picture of the Tower of Babel 468
Marriage of Lord Byron 326 Queen Victoria's Secondary Direc-
Modern medication, or the Allo- tions, May 24th, 1898,to May 24tb,

pathic treatment of Mr. May- lb99 317
i

brick 351 Quotations from a number of Astro-
Mr. Pasteur and Prof. Verneuirs re- logical books proving it 441

marks on Dr. Koch's remedy for Remarks on Prof Proctor's '* Hum-
Consumption 352 bug of Astrology" 17

Mr. Proctor convicts himself, after Rev. Thomas Dick, of England, on
being his own judge and jury 422 Astrology, in his "Improvement

Neptune in Gemini from 18S8 to 1902; of Society by the Diffusion of
Panama Scandal, and Suspension Knowledge." 18
of Baring Brothers, of London.. 76 Remarks en the signs of the Zodiac. 94

Nativity of Mrs. Maud S.'s daughter. 151 Rule to set a Map of the Heavens. . . . 142
New Aspects discovered by Jonn Rules for reading horoscopes 155

Kepler 243 Rules to be followed in describing
Neptune in the 12 houses 363 persons 160
Of the Sextile and Trine aspects of Riches and Poverty 162

the significators 131 Rules for describing the kind of per-
On Professor Draper's ridiculing son a lady or gentleman will mar-

William Lilly's Astrology 18 ry; also whether it will be a
Orbs of the planets 240 happy or unhappy marriage. . . 164
Preface iii Rules how to calculate the various
Pharaoh's Dream and the Magi- events and contingencies of life. 167

cians of Egypt and Babylon 58 Remarks on the Part of Fortune 176
Perihelion Epoch of Jupiter coinci- Riches and Poverty ' 178

dent with the return of Cholera Rules for judging the events and the
and epidemics 62 times that will happen in nativi-

Personal description of man or wo- ties 181
man described by the Planets,.. . 79 Remarks on Secondary directions.. . 182

Persons described by the 8 Planets.. i<9 Rules to judge the probable time of
Practical Astrology 141 marriage of the native—also the
Personal description 158 number of children 189
Parts of the body ruled bv the 12 Remarks and Explanations 219

houses and the 12 suns of the Zo- Remarks on the lords of the 12
diac 185 houses, and explaining how they

Profession and Trade—Riches and are used in directions, transits,
Poverty 194 revolutionary figures, etc 223

Profession or Business in which the Remarks on the changes in the per-
native would be fortunate 198 sjnal appearance of the native

Planets and other symbols 23 in the different periods of his
Prof. Wilson's criticisms on skeptics life 224

of Astrology 245 Rules for judging of the changing of
Perpetual table of planetary hours the build and complexion of the

from sunrise until 2 hours after native , 224
sunset 255 Remarks on the Table of Essential

Perpetual Table of Equation of Dignities of the planets 238
Time 286 Remarks on the Planetary hours. . . . 247

Picture of Mr. and Mrs. Lillian Lang- Remarks on the Planetary hours. . . . 251
try 308 Remarks on the time that some per-

Picture of Queen Victoria at the sons that we know of have got
age of 79 315 married, and the result, especial-

Pictures of Lillian Russell's first and ly that of Mr. and Mrs. Langtry. 294
second husbands 320 Remarks on reading Queen Victo-

Picture of Lillian Russeil and her ria's Horoscopa at a pubFc lec-
third husband 321 ture 311

Picture of Lillian Russell and report- Remarks on the Horoscope of Prince
ed fourth husband 322 Albert • 313



'

XXX11 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Page Page
Remarks on the Revolutionary and The signification of the 12 Houses... . 89

Secondary Directions of Queen The nature, quality and description
Victoria 316 of the 12 Houses 90

Remarks on Charles A. Dana's peri- The description of Herschel persons. 99
odical fits of iasanity 391 The description of Saturn persons. . . 100

Reply to Richard A. Proctor, which The description of Jupiter, Mars and
the New York World refused to Sun persons 101
publish 405 The description of Venus persons 102

Riots ia London, caused by the re- The descrip ion of Mercury and
peal of tyrannical laws in 1778 408 Moon persons 103

Rev. Thomas Dick. Puffins Astrology 436 The Moon in the 12 signs 119
Rules for laying corner-stones 466 The effects of the conjunction of Ur-
Saturn in the 12 signs 106 anus with the 7 planets 122
Sun in the 12 signs 113 The effects of Saturn in conjunction
Sickness, diseases and complaints. .. 161 with the other planets 125
Sympathy and antipathy of the plan- The effects of Jupiter in conjunction

ets -or friends and enemie« 241 with the other planets 126
Signification of the planetary hours, The effects of Mars in conjunction

and what use may be made of with the other planets 128
them 249 The effects of the Sun in conjunction

Some choice rules or aphorisms f^r with the other planets 129
election relating to several un- The effects of Venus and. Mercury,
dertakings 292 when in conjunction with the

Seven concise reasons why everyone Moon 130
should have a leading of thsir The effects of the square or opposi-
lives 339 tion aspect between the signifl-

Sickness and Allopathic treatment of cators 135
Glen. George Washington 349 Table of Lords of the Signs of the

Sentence of Mr. Romain to 18 months Houses 154
imprisonment by Judge Gordon, The Giver of Life 157
of Philadelphia, Pa 380 The financial benefit to persons in

Second:—Reformation and witch- studying Astrology 161
craft 415 The kind of gentleman Mrs. Maud

Second:—Assertions of those wh.> S.'s daughter will marry 166
oppose Astrology 432 The age when married 167

Scientists all agree that Astrology is The various contingencies and
a debasing superstition, but they events of life 167
all disagree among themselves... 470 Trade and Profession 178

To the Student . v Tue temper or the animal passions. . 194
The supposed Argument which the The influence of the lord of the first

Enemies of Astrology h^ve house in each of the 12 houses.. . 199
brought against that Science. .. 24 The planets impress distinct charac-

The Author's Criticism on the Editor teristics or marks on the native
of the New York Times 37 which can be recognized 226

The Opposition to Lectures on As- The seven planets rule the human
trology in New York C i ty 40 system—named in the following

The Persecution the Author met order 227
with at 814 Broadway, New York. 41 Table of Essential Dignities, and

The interference of the Author's various other tables and infor-
Lectures, and the breaking up of mation 231
the Meetings ... 42 The signs of the Zodiac and their

The stoppage of the Author's mail in classification 23
the Post-office in New York 43 The division of the 12 signs of the

The Bible and Astrology 57 Zodiac 233
Theories of Ancient Astronomers. . . 60 Triplicities or Trigons 334
Trie effect on the earth and its in- The signs divided among the planets 235

habitants of the near approach Table of Essential Dignities, and de-
of Mars 66 bilities of the p anets 237

The period of the war 68 The reason a planet receives its joy
The sign Gemini rules the United in one of its own signs and not in

States 69 the other 239
The planet Neptune in Gemini, 1720; Table of the planet's orbs 240

South Sea Bubble,and John Law's The mean motion of the planets 240
Banking Scheme 74 Table of the mean motion of the

The sign Taurus rules Ireland. 79 planets 241
The afflicting planets describe the The Dragon's Head or Moon's Node.. 243

assassins in remarkable murder The French and Latin names of days
cases 80 of the week, and explanation why

The horoscope of the assassination the names of some < f those days
of President Lincoln, on April 14, of the week have been changed. . 218
1865 81 The influence of the planetary hours

The horoscope of the assassination of the Sun, Moon and the other
of President Garfield, July 2, 18al 82 five planets 249

The horoscope of the assissination The hours of Saturn and Jupiter 249
of Lord Frederick Cavendish and The hours of Mars, Sun, Venus and
Mr. Thomas Burke, May 6,1882 . 8? Mercury 250



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. XXX111

Page Page
The hour of the Mood 251 The diseases of the body supposed to
The reason planetary hours have be caused by evil s-piritsor devils 410

not been more geneialiy made The persecutions by the Catholic
use of 252 Church and the burning of John

The hours of good placets and the Huss 412
hours of evil planets may vary The assumptions of Richard A. Proc-
in their influence in certain hor- tor 413
oscopes 253 Third—The change from the Ptole-

Tables of planetary hours, and the maic to theCopernican system of
reason why they vary in length.. 254 Astrononay 418

Table of planetary hours from sun- The reason I have not produced any
rise until two hours after sunset facts in regard to Astroh gy is

on every alternate Wednesday of that Richard A. Proctor ignored
any year 282 them 419

The difference between clock or The influence of planets on the
mean and solar time 285 stature and build of individuals . 423

The two conventions 300 The influence of the planeison happy
The picture of Prince Albert 313 and unhappy marriages 423
The portrait of Queen Victoria at 20 The change of opinion in regard to

years of age 311 Astrology by the editors and per-
The Revolutionary Chart of Queen s >ns connected with ths New

Victoria from May 24, 18y8, to York World since they publish-
May 24, 1899 316 ed Proctor's "Humbug of Astrol-

The physician's report of Gen. ogy." 424
Washington's last illness 350 To the Header 427

The ingredients and prescriptions The Pastoral Letter . . 431
sent by Allopathic doctors to Third—Chambers' Encyclopedia on
Samuel Boyer for the cure of dys- Astrology. '. 433
pepsia 353 Thomas Dick on the Absurdity of

The second prescription of Dr. Cleve- Astrology 435
land and his treatment of Mrs. The ridiculous conclusions of the
Carhart's baby 355 Penny Magazine 441

The objections to tli3 KCience of As- The Author of the Penny Magazine
trology answered 358 and his Refutation of Astrol-

The planet Neptune ... 362 ogy 443
The aspects of Neptune 3ti4 The Minister of the Gospel—remarks
The Baby's horoscope 373 on the wickedness of Astrology... 444
Tne horoscope of Emperor William The eclipses for 1768 446

III. of Germany 375 The imposter, Dr. Roeback, of Phil-
The horosc »pe of the third French adelphia 452

Republic 3^7 "The Gospel of t he Stars, or the Won-
2—The object I wish to accomplish by ders of Astroogy," Mr. James

the present publication 383 Hi ngstou 462
The Author's extensive acquaint- Theosophists all Awry 4ti7

ance 388 "Unparalleled Outrages" against As-
The Author's persecution at 814 trology and Astiologers, W. H.

Broadway 394 Chaney 454
The reason Mr. Chaney re-published Venus in the 12 signs 115

White s Ephemeris in the United What the Stars Say. (From the Balti-
States 396 more American) 297

The scarcity of Astrologers and As- " Who are the regulars and who are
trological Ephemeris in the the quacks?" &52
Unit d States 397 Why I am an Astrologer 378

The Humbug of Astrology 401 1.—Why I undertook to write this
The New York World refused to pub- pamphlet 381

lish my answer to Richard A. Why I came to have the planet Nep-
Proctor 401 tune's longitude calculated 397

The Author's criticism on Mr. Proc- Why I came to lecture on Astrology
tor and the New York World 407 at 814 Broadway 400

ADVERTISEMENT.
Dr. L. D. Broughton is a regular college graduate in medicine, also president of

the Astrological Society of New York. Having had over fifty years practice in

medicine and astrology, his long experience in both these sciences enables him
almost to guarantee satisfaction to those who may favor bim with their confidence.

He can be consulted either personally or by letter, at his office, 63 South Washington
Square, New York.

Office hours from 9 a. m. to 3 p. m,, and from 5 p. m. to 8 p. m,



XXXIV ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.

From Cincinnati Enquirer, of Nov. 17, 1898.

"The Elements of Astrology 1
' is a new work just published by the Author, Dr.

L. D. Broughton, of 68 South Washington Square, New York.
The horoscopes that appeared in the columns of the Inquirer some years ago

were edited by Dr. Broughton, and those who paid any attention to these readings
will be enabled to judge tor themselves what amount of faith to place in the teach-
ings of astro ogy after reading the elements of that science.

From New York Herald, of Nov. 13, 1898.

Students of the so-called occult sciences will be glad tolearn that a new and ex-
cellent work on astrology has just been published in this city and London,the author
and publisher being L. D. Broughton, M. D. The book, which is entitled " Elements
of Astrology, 1

' is a comprehensive and lucid text-book on this most ancient science.
Several books on this subjecthave been published during thela'-t few years both in
this country and in Europe, but it would be difficult to find one which is more in-
structive or more interesting than the present work. As a rule modern astrologi-
cal text-books are mere compilations of earlier works, and contain little or nothing
that is original. Dr. Broughton's book, however, is not of this sort. True, it con-
tains much that may be found in Lilly's "Christian Astrology," and other old books
on the subject, but it also contains much that will be new even to the trained stu-
dent. This will not surprise those who know that Dr. Broughton's father and grand-
father were firm believers in astrology: and that he himself has been studying it all
his life. It is doubtful if there is any man living now who has cast more horoscopes
than he has, or is more skilled in this fascinating science. In the present work, Dr.
Broughton not only lays down clear and simple rules for the guidance of students,
but he also gives us some notable horoscopes of prominent persons, and some inter-
esting reminiscences of his career as a teacher and champion of astrology. Alto-
gether this is an admirable book, and one which deserves to be welcomed by all
those who are interested in this curious, old, predictive science.

From New York Sunday News, October 30, 1898.

Astrology still has its attractions, and probably thousands of persons resort to
its professors every year to have their horoscopes cast. It is a curious study, and
the fact that its devotees are not diminishing is shown by the cumber of books
dealing witb it that are constantly issued, both here and abroad. One of the latest
of these is a curiosity in its way. Ihe author is Dr. Broughton, of this city, whose
horoscopes in the Sunday News some time ago will doubtless be remembered.

The title of this work is " The Elements of Astrology," but, apart from giving
instruction in the subject, it is full of really interesting information. The future of
persons now living is forecast with frank confidence, as for instance, that of the b f y
King of Spain, Alfonso XIII, of whom it is said that he is very liable to meet with
accidents, " particularly to the head, face and abdomen;" and, further, that, "as he
gets older he will become quite stout, similar to Queen Victoria, as he is born under
the same planet m the same sign, and then he will look much shorter, but will h*ve
a gentlemanly appearance, and, 1 ke the Queen, he will be very ambitious."

Further, we are told that this youth wll, when he comes of age,"often be at war
with other nations, but will generally come off victorious and gain much renown.
* * * Spain will be very prosperous under his reisn, and it will become one of the
leading nations of the earth before his death." The world will evidently have to
k ep an eye on him if this horoscope of his is correct, for we are also told surely
that Spain will be equally as fortunate under the reign of King Alfonso XIII. as
Great Britain during- that of Queen Victoria.

Another wonderful and timely prediction is that as to the fate to befall the
German fleet which gave Admiral Dewey so much anxiety at Manila a short time
ago. On this point Dr. Broughton says:

" There is no doubt that Prince Henry's expedition will prove disastrous. It
will be strange, indeed, if the voyage does not prove disastrous to Emperor
William, as well as to his brother, and also to the whole German nation, and that
within a short time they will belike the French, who sent their navy to seize and
possess Tonquin in China, They were soon very glad to get back to France, and
when they did get back they took the cholera germs with them, which ravaged
Marseilles and Toulon, and that epidemic spread over a great part of France and
carried off many thousands of its inhabitants. The expedition also came near
making another revolution in France.

Of the present French Republic it is interesting to be told that, having survived
up to November of last year, there is nothing very threatening ahead of it until
next February,when it will meet with severe afflictions,that will continue until lilOl.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

INTRODUCTION.

Astrology is taken from the two Greek words, Astron, a star, or con-

stellation of stars, and Logus, a discourse; meaning a discourse on
the influence of the stars.

Astronomy is from Astron, a star or constellation of stars, and Nomos,
law, meaning the knowledge or science of the laws of the stars. In for-

mer ages astrology and astronomy were twin sciences and astronomy was
studied solely for astrologers to make astrological predictions. Indeed,

the priest, physician, the astronomer and the astrologer were generally

one and the same person, and the priest and the physician spent as much
time in studying astrology and astronomy, as they did in studying

theology and the science of medicine. [Further on I expect to prove
that both theology and medicine are offsprings of astrology.]

But as science and learning advanced, it gradually became too labo-

rious for any one man to be proficient in all the four sciences or professions,

and in the course of ages they became separated, and one man studied

astrology, another astronomy, another medicine, and another studied to

be a priest, and as it often happens that when neighbors or relations fall

out they become the bitterest enemies, and as the astrologers were
always, in olden times, at the head of these professions, or " the power
behind the throne," and controlled or guided the kings, emperors
and Pharoahs, the other three professions became jealous and com-
bined against the astrologer, and have done everything possible to

degrade him and destroy his science and profession.

Even at the present day the students of medicine in some parts of
the world, such as Thibet and other countries, spend nine years in

the study of medicine, the last three they spend altogether in the
study of astrology, as they deem that the most important or essential

part of medicine, hence they study it the last, after having mastered or
got through studying the elementary branches, such as anatomy, physi-
ology, chemistry, materia medica, etc.

Dr. Lambert of London, England, has lately published a book
on the practice of medicine, and in it attempts to prove the great
advancement that science has made within the last 200 years, and gives
as an illustration, that formerly when a student came up for his final

examination previous to getting his diploma, he was generally asked the
following question "

: If you are called to the bedside of a sick person,
where would you look for the disease ? " The student is made to answer:
"In the sixth house" In the latter part of this Elements of Astrol-



f) ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

ogy, I shall treat more especially on the science of medicine and
astrology, and shall often have occasion to refer to the sixth house.

It may be news to the reader to learn that Doctor Saunder, of
London, England, published a large volume on the " sixth house," and
William Lilly, the celebrated Astrologer, wrote the introduction to it.

I shall endeavor to prove that the old school physicians,or what are called
the allopaths, on account of not giving attention to the sixth house, and
by their method of treating diseases, actually destroy over 100,000 people
every year in the United States alone. But more on this subject after-

wards.
It is just about fifty years since my special attention was drawn to

the science of astrology, and I made up my mind to study that science,

cost what it would in labor or time.

I may here state that I was brought up in the atmosphere of astrol-

ogy and kindred sciences, as my father, grandfather and relations for

several generations had all given attention to these subjects, and were
adepts in tkem.

My father did not practice astrology for a living, but he had a num-
ber of friends who came to consult him and ask his advice. I was often
in the room when he was giving such advice, and was very much in-

terested in what was going on, and in the manner he read the horoscopes.
My eldest brother studied astology, and had a large practice, and be-
came an expert.

For reasons which I need not mention, my brother when he was
about three weeks old was removed to my father's sister's, and he never
afterwards lived at home, consequently he knew little of mv private
life.

One time on a visit to my aunt's my brother offered to read my
horoscope, and after giving him my time of birth he made a map of the
heavens and read it off in such a manner and with such accuracy of
detail, that, to put it mildly, I was astonished. From that time I made
up my mind that I would study the science at any cost.

The system of astrology that I shall call the reader's attention to, is

the Egyptian system, which was taught and practiced by Claudius
Ptolemy (the great Egyptian astrologer and astronomer), in his work
called " Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos " or Four Books of A strology. Claud-
ius Ptolemy lived about 2,000 years ago. He collected and published
all that was then known on that science. He also published a book on
astronomy called "The Ptolemaic Astronomy," which system has,

since the invention of the telescope, been exploded, and the Coperni-
can system of astronomy now prevails at the present day. Ptolemy's

two books, the one on astrology, and the other on astronomy were often

bound in one volume. In those days and long before navigation had

become a science, those two sciences (astronomy and astrology) were

always closely associated, and but few persons studied astronomy except

those who studied astrology, with the sole view of making predictions.

When Ptolemy's system of astronomy was exploded it was taken for

granted by ignorant persons that his system of astrology was also ex-



—

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

ploded, which idea is altogether erroneous. Ptolemy also published a

Geography, but it was not exploded any more than his system of as-

trology, and both his geography and astrology are studied even to the

present day.
Besides Ptolemy's system of astrology there is also an Arabian sys-

tem which I have given some attention to, and the Chinese astrology,

which I have not been able to investigate, as it has not been translated

into the English language, that I am aware of.

Ptolemy's Four Books on Astrology are to the European and American
student what the Bible is to the student of Christian Theology, conse-
quently we have had a great number of translations of " Ptolemy's
Tetrabiblos. " I have some six or eight translations myself; for instance,

Sibley's, Whalley's, Wilson's, Ashmand's, Coopers's, Worsdale's, and
a few others that I cannot bring to mind. In short, when a person suc-

ceeded in studying astrology, and also had a knowledge of the Greek
language, he must needs commence the translation of " Ptolemy's Tetra-
biblos," similar to a person who is excelling as a painter, in order to

become celebrated, he must paint a Madonna ; also a person ex-
celling in the Greek and Hebrew language, if he is a devout Christian,

thinks he must commence translating the Bible, hence, there are many
translations of the Bible and many Madonnas. Ashmand's translation of
Ptolemy is counted the most perfect by English astrologers, and I think I

cannot do better than give a short extract from his preface to the trans-

lation of Ptolemy. Ashmand says on page 5 :

" Of all sciences which have at any time engaged the attention of man,
there is not one, the real or assumed principles of which are less generally
known in the present age, than those of astrology. Out of a thousand per-
sons who now treat the mention of this ancient science with supercilious
ridicule, there is scarcely one who knows distinctly what it is he laughs at.

Such contented ignorance, in persons, too, sufficiently informed in other
respects, is the more extraordinary, since astrology has maintained a most
conspicuous part throughout the history of the world, even until compara-
tively recent days. In the East, where it first arose, at a period of very re-
mote antiquity, it still even now holds sway. In Europe and in every part of
the world, where learning had impressed the human soil, astrology reigned
supreme until the middle of the seventeenth century. It entered into the
councils of princes, it guided the policy of nations, it ruled the daily actions
of individuals, and physicians who were not well versed in this science were
not deemed competent to practice their profession. All this is attested by the
records of every nation which has a history."

In the brief history of astrology which I present to the reader, I have
endeavored to be as impartial and as unbiassed as possible. He will

find extracts from both the works of the enemies of astrology and as-

trologers, and also extracts from those authors who have written favorably
on that subject.

Solomon in his Proverbs, says "
: Let thy neighbor praise thee, yea,

a stranger, and not thine own self." This advice of Solomon, I think,
is without sense or reason, because a stranger could have very little

knowledge of the party he intended to praise, and in so praising, it

could only be called flattery or appealing to one's vanity. If Solomon



8 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

had said "
: Let thy neighbor praise thee, yea, thine enemy and not

thine ownself," he would have spoken to the point, and more sensible
than in the above Proverb. When an enemy praises either a science or
an individual, ic is evident that there must be some good or truth in that
science or that person.

I shall commence by naming the authors who have written the most
savagely against astrology. They are the Rev. Thomas Dick, of Eng-
land, and the late Richard A. Proctor, also of England, and William and
Robert Chambers, of Scotland. I shall quote from each of these au-
thors as they are printed in their works. I might here state that it

would have been much pleasanter for me, not to have had to refer to

the enemies of astrology in any form or manner, but only to have
written a book explaining its principles, and the best and easiest method
of learning and practising that science. But astrologers have been so
persecuted and imprisoned, and often put to death, in all Christian
countries, that I think it is nothing but right that I should draw the
reader's attention to the fact that astrology still continues to exist as

a science, in spite of all those persecutions and imprisonments of its

professors, whieh proves beyond a question, that there is truth in the
science. Had any other profession met with the same amount of perse-

cution, the professors who practised it would have been crushed or
exterminated ages ago ; although there might have been some little truth

in those so-called sciences which those professors practised or followed.
Whenever the time arrives when the science of astrology shall be-

come well known and understood, similar to arithmetic and astronomy,
then all the persecutors will disappear, or at least they will be so ashamed
of themselves, that they will be afraid to open their mouths, for fear of be-
ing held up to public scorn and ridicule, similar to what we should
regard a person at the present day who can neither read nor write, and
cannot tell the time of day when looking at the hands on the face of a

clock or watch that keep correct time. If these ignorant persons should
commence to persecute and imprison all those who can read and write,

or can tell the hour and minute of the day by looking at the face of a

clock they would then place themselves in the same position as the per-
secutors of astrology, and those persecutors being at the same time igno-
rant of that science.

A BRIEF HISTORY OF ASTROLOGY, BY ITS FRIENDS
OR ADVOCATES.

In tracing the antiquity of astrology, we are directed back to the re-

motest periods on record. The Jewish historian, Josephus, who wrote
nearly two thousand years ago, asserts that the Antediluvians were ac-

quainted with astrology, and the same author states that it was understood
by Seth, who was taught the science by Adam, his father; so that by taking

this authority, we are carried back for the commencement of this knowl-
edge to our first parents. Josephus further states that Seth, foreseeing

the flood, in order to preserve a knowledge of this science to posterity,

engraved the rudiments thereof upon two permanent pillars of stone,



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. g

which endured through many generations, and were not entirely effaced

till some time after the deluge. We are also told by the same au-
thority, that the science was taught by Enos and Noah, who preserved
it to the days of Abraham, who extended the knowledge of it by divine
aid, teaching it to the Chaldeans and Egyptians. Joseph also patronized
and taught it in Egypt; and Origen, Diodorus Siculus, and other ancient
historians, supposed him to have been the author of an astrological work
called: 4< The Aphorisms of Hermes the Egyptian."

The prophets and seers acquired a knowledge of this science from
Moses, and it was afterwards taught among the tribe of Issachar, who are

on that account, called in Scripture, " Men who had understanding in

the times," and were expert in resolving all questions concerning futu-

rity, and as this tribe were neither priests nor Levites, nor endowed with
the spirit of prophecy, it follows that their understanding in the times,

and the ability in foretelling future events, arose entirely from an ac-

quired knowledge of the signs and influences of the heavenly bodies.

The Persian astrologers were called Magi, or wise men, who were skilled

in the times ; and the Chaldeans termed their astrologers men skilled in

wisdom and cunning sciences, who learned the learning of the Chaldeans.
And after their method of studying their science of astrology, Daniel, Shad-
rach, Meshech and Abednego were instructed by their tutor, Melzer,
and became ten times more learned in all matters of wisdom and under-
standing than all the astrologers of the realm, in consideration of which,
they were elected members of the public schools of Babylon, which were
founded for the study of this science ; and Daniel was made by the
king's decree master over all the Chaldean astrologers.

It was a common custom in the days of Samuel, to go to the seers

or men of understanding in the times, to be informed concerning future

contingencies and other matters, and we find Saul consenting to the
proposal of his servant, to go to the seer and inquire respecting the
strayed asses of Kish, Saul's father,which they were sent out in search of.

Also we find that David when in Keilah, having heard that Saul was
coming to beseech him, was desirous of knowing the truth of the matter
and if he were coming as reported ; and whether the men of Keilah
would be true to him, or would betray him, and being informed they
would betray him into the hands of the enemy, who were seeking
his life, he fled into the wilderness of Kiph, and escaped the danger
impending over him.

Space will not permit detailing minutely the progress of astrology
in Egypt, Babylon, Persia, Greece, Arabia, China, India and the
nations of Europe ; we must therefore content ourselves with a few
particulars. The first Egyptian astrologer of importance was Hermes,
who lived at a period anterior to Moses. Dr. Cudworth observes that
beyond doubt there was among the Egyptians such a man as Thoth,
Theuth or Tauth, who was called the first Hermes, who together with
letters, was the inventor of arts and sciences, as arithmetic, geometry,
astronomy, and of the hieroglyphic learning. The Egyptians also had
among them another eminent advancer or restorer of learning who was



IO ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

called the second Hermes, who composed books on several arts and
sciences, which books were said to be carefully preserved by the priests

in the inmost recesses of the temples. The same author observes that

in the religious processions of the Egyptians the precentor goes first,

carrying two of the books of Hermes with him. After him follows the
Horoscopus, who is particularly instructed in astrological books, which
are four. These four books might have been the Tetrabiblos of Clau-
dius Ptolemy, before mentioned, and which are studied at the present
day.

Diodorus informs us that the " Chaldeans in Babvlon, were a colonv
of the Egyptians, and they became famous for astrology, having learned
it from the priests of Egypt."

In Persia, the names of Zoroaster and Gjamasp stand on record as

eminent astrologers; the former lived about 520 years before Christ,

and the latter in the reign of King Gushtasp.
In Greece flourished the famous astrologer, Anaximander, who was

born 610 years before Christ; also Anaxagoras, Thales, Euripides,
Socrates and Pericles ; after these, followed Pythagoras, Plato, Porphyry,
Aristotle, Proclus, Conon, Democritus, Hippocrates and other famous
astrologers too numerous to particularize here.

In Rome, we find Virgil, Cicero, Prepertius, Macrobius, Horace and
Gellius, as devoting themselves to the study of astrology ; also Manillus,
whose astrological treatise is still extant. The " Universal History"
also mentions some learned men among the Arabians, who studied and
wrote on this science. Among Europeans, may be mentioned Cornelius
Agrippa, Jerom, Cardan, and Placidus de Titus. In the fifteenth cen-
tury, Regiomontanus published his " Ephemerides " for astrological

purposes, containing the planets, longitudes, aspects, etc., for thirty-

years, and so eager were persons of all nations to obtain this work, that

all the copies were soon bought up at the price of twelve Hungarian
pieces of gold each.

In the English nation, if we go back to the learned men of former
days, we find them all consenting to the belief in planetary influence.

We may commence with the noted astrologer, Oliver, of Malmsbury, in

the year 1060 ; and near to him, Herbert, of Lorraine, 1095 ; John, of
Hexam and Simeon, of Durham ; Aegidius of St. Albans, Roger Bacon,
Robert Grouthead, John Holyhood, Michael Scot, Duns Scotus, Wil-
liam Grizaunt, Clinton Langley, John Killingsworth, Geoffrey Chaucer,
John Waller, the Duke of Gloucester, Robert Recorde, and many
others.

In the seventeenth century, may be noticed the names of Dr. Mead,
Blagrave, Flamstead, Ramsey, Dr. Goad, Partridge, Elias Ashmole,
William Lilly, John Gadbury, Richard Ball, Dr. Saunders, Dr. Dee the
physician to Queen Elizabeth, and numbers of others who were famous
for their learning and knowledge of astrology. During this period the

science of the stars shone forth in the refulgent splendor of a noonday
sun, and again its grandeur declined before the baneful influence of
prejudice, and scepticism which caused cruel and unjust laws to be



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY 1 1

enacted to suppress it,which laws have continued their effect till the latter

part of the present century. But the discerning public are now beginning
to reason on the subject, and say that these learned, great, and good
men, whom we have here enumerated, could not have all been deluded,
but that they must have had sufficient grounds to have supported their
belief, and which the writings, calculations and experiences of astrologers
of the present period daily prove.

No other science that I am aware of has such an honorable and
ancient record as that of astrology. Even if we except that part of the
history of the Jews, by Josephus, where he says that God taught Adam
astrology by inspiration, and Adam taught his son, Seth, yet there is

enough left of the history of the Jews and of astrology to show that
the science originated at a very early period in the history of mankind

;

not only that, but astrology has an honorable history in every nation or
race of people on the face of the earth that has attained any degree
of civilization. Even the enemies of astrology cannot deny that fact.

In the above short sketch of the history of astrology, I have only given
the account of that science as published by persons who were not
prejudiced against it, but even in giving the history of astrology as pub-
lished by its most bitter enemies, the reader will be astonished at the
amount of praise given to it, although they have tried to say everything
they could against it and its professors; yet in spite of their enmity, it

has been impossible for them to speak the truth and not praise it ;

and really their praise is more worthy of notice than the unbiassed his-

tory of the science that we have from the astrologers themselves, or its

historians who have lived in almost all ages and in every nation, since

civilization began. If our enemies praise us, there must be some truth

in their praise, or they would not bestow it.

In the remainder of this history of that science, I shall quote only
from persons who have written against it, and who have done every-
thing possible to crush it, either by fair means or foul. I shall now let

the enemies of astrology speak for themselves on this subject.

The first author I shall refer to, is the late Richard A. Proctor, of
England, who became quite noted on account of his popular lectures on
astronomy. Probably no author has been so bitter against astrology, or

appeared to be more afflicted with that peculiar disease which might be
termed astrophobia. Once I heard him lecture on astronomy in Chicker-
ing Hall, New York. He there stated, that even if we could predict

epidemics of diseases, plagues, earthquakes, etc., by the aid of astronomy,
it would degrade that science to do so. For my part, I cannot under-
stand how a science or human beings can be degraded by being useful

in warding off or in any way mitigating those fatal epidemics or
calamities which often afflict the human race.

After the New York World had succeeded in having John De
Leon, an astrologer, sent to Sing Sing for fifteen years, in order to jus-

tify itself in the eyes of the .public, it employed Richard A.
Proctor to write an article on the " Humbug of Astrology," which
was published in the New York World, on Sunday, Feb. 6, 1887.
In that article he gives a



:

12 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

SHORT HISTORY OF ASTROLOGY
and says

"Can it be (many have said tome), that all the wise men of past ages, those
to whom we attribute so many of the beliefs that to this day we hold sacred,
can in this matter of astrology have been wholly decived ? Not only among
all the leading races of antiquity, and in all the chief civilized nations, but
during periods of time such as no other faith can boast of having swayed,
men held firmly to the belief that the stars in their courses foretell, nay rule
the fortunes of men. The cuneiform inscriptions of Assyria, the hieroglyphs
of Egypt, the most ancient records of Persia, India and China agree
in showing that of old, all men believed the sun and moon, the planets and
the stars to be as ' Radiant Mercuries, carrying through ether in perpetual
ound decrees and resolutions of the gods.' Nay, throughont the long
period, to be measured by thousands of years, when all men held this belief,

the most part held what anciently had been the belief of all, that the
sun and moon and all the host of heaven are not meiely the exponents of
the will of the gods, but are actually as gods themselves. To this day, are
not only all languages permeated by the expressions belonging to the old
astrological teachings, but all the feasts and fasts of the religions of our age,
purified though they have been from Sabaistic beliefs, attest in the clearest
way, to the astronomer, their origin in Sabaistic observances. To this day
Christians and Jews, Buddhists and Mahommedans, regulate their yearly
ceremonials by the solstices and equinoctial passages of the sun, and the
weekly renewals of religious observances were derived originally from the
moon's motions, and were determined by the moon, 'when new' in her
first quarter, 'full' in her third quarter, and 'new' again. Among
the Jews and Mahommedans, indeed, the ' new moon ' observances and
those which formerly attended the rising and setting of the sun, are still re-

tained. Astrology, the outcome of those Sabaistic beliefs which were once
universally prevalent, had a most respectable origin, and if common opinion
could prove any doctrine just, astrology it seems should have been based on
truth. Why then should it now be held only worthy of belief by the igno-
rant and silly and be maintained as true only by rogues and charlatans?"

If it be true, as Mr. Proctor states, and those statements can be
verified by the history of nearly all civilized nations, in all past ages,

that in ancient times all the learned men studied, and all were
believers, in astrology—so much so, that even at the present day, all

languages are permeated by old astrological teachings,—it appears to

me a very bold assertion for Mr. Proctor to make, and without a par-

ticle of proof, when he says that " belief in astrology now is only
maintained by the ignorant and silly, and the rogues and charlatans."

In the latter part of this volume, I shall bring enough facts to prove
to any reasonable mind, that " it is only the ignorant and silly, the

rogues and charlatans," who do not believe in astrology except
in a few cases similar to Trilby before she met Svengali, and was hyp-
notized, she being tune-deaf, and therefore could not enjoy harmony or

music. There are also others who cannot enjoy the beauties of nature

on account of being what is termed color-blind. But 1 ehall refer to this

subject in the latter part of this volume, and will only add here, that

it is not good reasoning or good law for any person to say that because
he is blind all others who can see ought to be sent to prison, or because



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 13

he is deaf that all who say they can hear are ignorant and silly, or rogues

or charlatans, and yet this is Professor Proctor's logic and law, and I

defy any one to prove the contrary. It is this kind of reasoning and
law that has often caused our judges and juries to fill our prisons with
convicts.

I shall now illustrate what Mr. Proctor means when he says that

throughout the long period, to be measured by thousands of years, when
all men held this belief, that the most part held what anciently had been
the belief of all, and which was not only proved by the cuneiform in-

scriptions of Assyria, the hieroglyphs of Egypt, the most ancient records

of Persia, India and China, all agreeing in showing that of old all men
believed the Sun, Moon, the planets and stars ''ruled the fortunes ofmen."

In addition to the above statements, all of which are true to the let-

ter, we have a remarkable illustration in the names of the days of the
week, and the hours of the day, which have been adopted by almost
every civilized nation. There are but few people at the present day
who know how we came to call the days of the week by the names
that are given them, and why they came to be so named, and why we
have seven and not any ouher number, and why they run in the present
order—Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
and Saturday. Some people might think that if they had been named
after the planets they would be named in the order that the planets

run. That is, counting from the outer planet Saturn, then Jupiter,
Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury and the Moon ; or, in other words, they
would have run Saturday, Thursday, Tuesday, Sunday, Friday, Wed-
nesday and Monday.

In order to make the reader understand the principles of the arrange-
ments of the days of the week, I will state that we have the twelve
hours of the day and the twelve hours of the night from the twelve signs

of the Zodiac ; in short, twelve was reconized as a sacred number by
the ancients

; even Christ had his twelve apostles. Formerly the hours
were reconed from sunrise to sunset, instead of 12 o'clock midnight to

12 o'clock midnight, but that was during the time when most of the
civilized people dwelt near the equator, and the days and nights in those
parts are nearly of equal length all the year round. But afterwards
when people began to migrate to both the northern and southern lati-

tudes and to settle there, they reckoned the hours from the middle of the
day, or when the sun arrives in the midheaven or highest point to the
middle of the night, or when the sun is at the lowest point, the days
varying so in length in the higher latitudes that the people could not
measure time so accurately by the rising or setting of the sun. The an-
cients not only allotted a planet to rule or govern each day in the week,
but a particular planet also ruled or was alloted to each hour of the day,
and those hours were called planetary hours and were numbered or
recorded from the outer planet Saturn, inward to Jupiter, Mars, Sun,
Venus, Mercury and the Moon.

What is termed the planetary hour is the unit by which the names
of the days of the week are controlled or regulated, or, in other words,



1 1 111 1

14 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

it is the unit which causes the first day to be Sunday, second Monday,
third Mars' day, fourth Mercury's day, fifth Jupiter's day, sixth Venus'
day, and the seventh Saturn's day. The ancients allotted or gave the

first day to the Sun, and the hour that commenced that day, count-
ing from sunrise, was allotted to that luminary ; the second hour to

the planet Venus, the third hour to Mercury, the fourth hour to the

Moon, etc. It is not to be wondered at that in very ancient times, or

rather in the prehistoric period, the people recognized the Sun as the
cause of all earthly blessings, such as light, heat, and the cause of the
growth of plants, fruit and grain of every kind which nourishes animals
and man ; that those ancient people should have allotted the first day
of the week to that most conspicuous of the heavenly bodies, and that
the Sun's day should have the first hour of the day appropriated to it.

Then Venus the second, and Mercury the third, Moon the fourth,

Saturn the fifth, Jupiter the sixth, and Mars the seventh, counting from
the farthest planet to the nearest. The Sun likewise governs the 8th,

15th and 22d; Venus governs the 23d; Mercury the 24th, and the

Moon governs the first hour of the next day ; therefore it is called

Moon's day, and so on ; Saturn governs the second hour, Jupiter 3d,

Mars 4th, Sun 5th, Venus 6th, Mercury 7th, Moon 8th. The Moon
also governs the 15th and 22d, Saturn 23d, Jupiter 24th, and Mars the

first hour of the following day, which is called Tuesday, and so on each
day, commencing at sunrise, according to the following table :

SUNDAY, WEDNESDA\
Sun Ven. Mer. Moon Sat. Jup. Mars Mer. Moon Sat. J»P- Mars Sun Ven

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 IO 1 12 l 3 14 8 9 IO 1 12 *3 H

»5 16 l 7 18 19 20 2) l 5 16 17 18 l 9 20 21

22 2 3 24 22 2 3 24

MONDAY. THURSDAY.
Moon Sat. J "P. Mars Sun Ven. Mer. Jup- Mars Sun Ven. Mer. Moon Sat.

1 2 3 4 6 7 I
5 2 3 4 6

5 7
8 9 IO 1 12 13 H 8 9 10 1 12 *3 H

»5 16 17 18 ] 9 20 21 15 16 17 18 *9 20 2

22 2 3 24 22 2 3 24

TUESDAY. FRIDAY.
Mars Sun Ven. Mer. Moon Sat. Jup. Ven. Mer. Moon Sat. Jup. Mars Sun

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 2
3 4 5 6 7

8 9 IO 1 1 12 13 H 8 9 10 1 12 *3 H
l l6
5 17 18 J 9 20 21 15 16 17 18 !9 20 21

22 2 3 24 22 2 3 24

SATURDAY.
Sat. Jup. Mars Sun 1 Ven . Mer. Moon

1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 1 12 13 H

15 16 17 18 *9 20 21
22 2 3 24



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 1 5

In a number of languages, for instance, the French and the Latin,

and some others, the people still retain the names of the planets for the

names of the days in the week. But some four hundred years after Eng-
land had been conquered by the Romans, the English and other nations

were left to take care of themselves; they were invaded or conquered by
pagans called Goths, from Gothland, and the Norsemen from the North,
who came from Norway and Sweden. Among those noted generals was
one named Thor ; his wife's name was Frea. When he died, Jupi-
ter's day, or Thursday, was named in honor or remembrance of Thor,
and Frea, his wife, had Venus' day or Friday named in honor of her.

Even at the present day travelers in Sweden have the tombs of Thor
and Frea pointed out to them. Another noted general was named
Woden, or the man of the woods, and when he died they named Wed-
nesday or Mercury's day in honor of him. Another famous general was
Twi, and when he died, Tuesday or Mars' day was named after him;
and no doubt if those wars had continued and the generals had gone on
conquering the nations, each day of the week would have been
named after some great commander of some noted army which came
to invade England and other barbarous countries; as we have the
eighth month of the year named after the Roman Emperor Augus-
tus, and the seventh month in honor of Julius Caesar.

The Quakers and Shakers have done everything they could to
change the names of the days of the week, as they had an impress-
ion that they were all named after the pagan gods and thought it

wicked to call days after those heathen deities, so they called Sunday
the Lord's day or first day, Monday the second day, Tuesday the
third day, and the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh days.

During the French Revolution, the Revolutionists not only abolished
all religion and worshipped the Goddess of Reason, but they began a

new calendar and changed the names of the days of the week and
broke up the weeks entirely, and made each week ten days long,
and three weeks in a moon or month.* But this system of reckoning

* THE REPUBLICAN CALENDAR OF FRANCE.
In 1793 the National Convention of the First French Republic decreed that the old era

should be abolished in all civil affairs and that a new era should commence from the foundation
of the Republic.

The commencement of the year was fixed at the autumnal equinox, which nearly coincided
with the epoch of the foundation of the Republic. The names of the ancient months were abol-
ished, and others substituted having reference to agricultural labors or the state of nature in dif-
ferent seasons of the year.

Beginning 22 September, 1792, the year was divided into 12 months of 30 days, each with 5
complementary days at the end to be celebrated as festivals, and were dedicated to Virtue,
Genius, Labor, Opinion, Reward. Every fourth or Olympic year was to have a sixth comple-
mentary clay to be called "revolution clay," and every period of four years was to be called a
Franciade.

The first, second and third centurial years, viz , 100, 200, 300, were to be common years, the
fourth centurial year, 400, was to be a leap year, and this was to continue till the fortieth cen-
turial, 4000. which was to bft a common year. The mo?itks ivere to be divided into three parts
often days each, called decades. The names of the months and the days of the Gregorian Cal-
endar, to which they corresponded were as follows :



i6 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

time was so artificial and contrary to all the laws of nature that it waj
soon discontinued. The French people, like all other Christians, and I

might say all other civilized nations, call the names of the days of the

weeks after the names of the planets, which govern those days, and alsc

have the seven days of the week similar to other nations.

Indeed in every civilized or half civilized nation on the face of the

earth they have the names of the days of the week called after

the planets and have them arranged according to the planetary hours,
commencing the first hour after midnight with the name of the planet

that rules that day.
The planetary hours are not all of equal length, and they are reck-

oned from sunrise to sunset, and not from 12 o'clock at night, when the

day really commences, but at sunrise. in summer the planetary
hour of the day is much longer than the planetary hour of the night.

The way to calculate the length of the planetary hours for any particu-
lar day in the year is to find out what time the Sun rises and what time
it sets on that particular day, then add the number of hours together,

afterwards reduce the number of hours from sunrise to sunset into min-
utes by multiplying them by 60 and adding the odd minutes tt that

sum, and then dividing it by 12, which gives the length in hours and
minutes of the planetary hour of that particular day. When the plane-
tary hour is more than 60 minutes long in the day it is less than 60
minutes in the night, but near the 21st of March and the 21st of Sep-
tember the planetary hour in all latitudes is the same length—that is,

60 minutes for both night and day.

I propose further on to prove that the planets still rule and always
did rule the days of the week that they are named after, and also each
hour of the day is ruled by itb own particular planet, and in the order of
their distance from the earth, commencing with the most distant planet,

Saturn, then Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury and the Moon,
Probably there is nothing more convincing of the general belief in

Astrology throughout the whole civilized world in former ages than the

names of the days of the week, and the planetary hours governing the

same, and which we continue to make use of even t the present day.

Vendemaire Vintage Sept. 22 to Oct. 2i.
Brumaire Foggy Oct 21 to Nov. 20.
Krimaire Sleety Nov. 21 to Dec. 20.
Nivose Snowy Dec. 21 to Jan. 19.
Pluviose Rainy Jan. 20 to Feb 18.
Ventose Windy Feb. 19 to Mar. 20.
Germinal Budding Mar. 21 to April 19.
Floreal Flowery April 20 to May 19.
Prairial Pasture May 20 to June 18.

Messidor Harvest June 19 to July 18.
Tliermidor Heat July 19 to Aug. 17.
Fructidor Fruit Aug. 18 to Sept. 15.

Floreal (the "flowery *') the eighth month in the Republican Calendar of France, which
from Nov. 24. 179? to Sept. 9, 1805, was used in place of the Gregorian. Floreal began April
19-22 and ended May 18-21.

In Roman days the festival of Flora, the Goddess of Flowers, was between 28th April and
jd of Mav.

By Napoleon's command this new system was abolished and the era of the Gregorian Calen
dar resumed on Jan. 1, 1807. (See note on page 248.)



J

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY I

It is an utter impossibility for those days to have been arranged in

the order in which they are by chance, or without a knowledge of the
planetary hours, therefore those learned men who first arranged the days
in the week must have had a practical knowledge of Astrology, and such
as but kw learned men at the present day possess, and there must have
been thousands of Astrologers in every nation and in all parts of the
worli which claimed to be at all civilized, to have had such an influ-

ence on mankind as to have made the names of those days to become
universal, or to be adopted by all civilized nations on the face of the
earth. There is nothing to be compared to it, even in religion

science, politics, or even fashion ; and as Professor Proctor says: ,

" Astrology had a most respectable origin, and if common opinion
could prove any doctrine just, astrology must, it would seem, have been
based on truth."

Professor Proctor goes on to say in his

"HUMBUG OF ASTROLOGY":
" Having thus decided on the special influence of the seven planets, the

ancients readily formed a system by which, as they supposed, the action of
those influences on the fortunes of men and nations might be determined.
When they had also learned how to calculate the position of the planets for
any length of time in advance, they believed that they had obtained full

power of predicting the fortunes of each man as soon as having calculated
the aspects of the heavens at his nativity they had learned which planets
were most potent in their influences of his fortune.

" And with this power of prediction came some power of favoring good
fortune and preventing evil 5 in other words, in ruling as well as reading the
planets."

I think that astrologers in all parts of the world ought to thank
Professor Proctor for praising up Astrology as he has done, and for hav-
ing laid the principles of that science on such a solid and firm founda-
tion.

When Mr. Proctor says : "The ancient Astrologers having thus
decided on the special influence of the seven planets" and " their in-

fluences on the fortunes of men and nations," etc., he does not tell

his readers that the ancients had observed the influences in the horo-
scopes of men and in the horoscopes of nations for thousands of
years, and that those influences were unfailing in their effect, and
that the effects of the planetary influences are observed in hundreds
of thousands of horoscopes, even up to the present day, by astrolo-
gers in all parts of the world.

I have myself observed the effects of the planetary influence in
over two hundred thousand horoscopes, and continued to observe their
effects in some horoscopes over 40 years, and every man who studies
and practices Astrology becomes convinced of the effects of the "seven
planets on the fortunes of men and nations " and must agree with
John Kepler, the greatest Astronomer that ever lived, when he says :

"A most unfailing experience of the excitement of sublunary nature by



lb ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

the conjunction and aspects of the planets has instructed and compelled
my unwilling belief."

If Richard A. Proctor had spent some time in making calculations
of the seven planets and observing their effect in horoscopes as the
great Astronomer, John Kepler, had spent years in doing, it is pos-
sible that instead of writing an article for the New York World helping
the editors to justify their conduct in the eyes of the public for being
the means of sending an innocent man to Sing Sing prison for fifteen

years for the sole purpose of booming their paper, as the chief edi-

tor afterwards wrote a. letter, over his own signature, acknowlecgii
{

such to be the case,— I say, if Mr. Proctor had followed the
example of John Kepler instead of calling all Astrologers "lying knaves,
silly charlatans and unscrupulous rascals," etc., he might have been like

Bishop Butler, who, after writing and doing all he could to expose
Astrology, undertook to study it so that he could condemn the science
with more effect, and wound up by writing and publishing one of the
best text books on Astrology we now have.

The next author who has written against Astrology and to whom I

shall call the reader's attention is the Rev. Thomas Dick, of England.
In a work which he published there, and was republished by Harper
Brothers, of New York City, and called the

"IMPROVEMENT OF SOCIETY BY THE DIFFUSION OF
KNOWLEDGE."

It was republished about the year 1830 and went through a

great many editions, both in England and this country. Mr. Dick
says on page 32, when referring to Astrology:

"This art has been practiced in every period of time. Among the
Romans the people were so infatuated with it that the Astrologers, or, as

they were then called, the mathematicians, maintained their ground in spite

of all the edicts of the Emperors to expel them from the capital ; and after
they were at length expelled by a formal decree of the Senate, they
found so much protection from the credulity of the people that they
still remained in Rome unmolested. Among the Chaldeans, the Assyri-
ans, the Egyptians, the Greeks, and the Arabians, in ancient times,
Astrology cwas uniformly included in the list of sciences and used as one
species of divination by which they attempted to pry into the secrets of

futurity. The Brahmins of India at an early period introduced this art

into that country, and by means of it have rendered themselves the arbiters

of good and evil hours,* and of the fortunes of their fellow-men, and have
thus raised themselves to great authority and influence among the illiterate!

of the multitude. They are consulted as oracles, and like all other impos-
ters, they have taken great care never to sell thei* answers without a hand-
some remuneration. In almost every country in the world this art is still

* Or, in other words, the Brahmins calculated the times of the good and evil planetary hours
for the people.

t The Rev. Thomas Dick should not entirely have lost his head in the excitement
of writing against Astrology; he infers that it was only the illiterate who believed in

Astrology, and in a few lines further on he tells us that all the Kings, Queens, and the
learned and scientific men of the world believed in Astrology at that period of the world's history.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. I9

practiced, and only a short time has elapsed since the princes and legislators

of Europe were directed in the most important concerns of the state by the
advice or predictrons of Astrologers. In the time ot Queen Catharine De
Medici, Astrology was so much in vogue that nothing, however trifling,

was to be done without consulting the stars. The Astrologer Morin, in

the seventeenth century, directed Cardinal Richeleu's motions in some of his

journeys, and Louisa Marie de Gonzaga, Queen of Poland, gave 200 crowns
to carry on an edition of his astrologic.il Gallicoa ; and in the reign of
Henry the Third and Henry the Fourth, of France, the predictions of
Astrologers were the common theme of court conversation. Even in the
present day and in the metropolis of the British Empire this fallacious art is

practiced, and its professors are resorted to for judicial information, not only
by the vulgar, but by many in the higher spheres of life.* The exten-
sive annual sale of more than 200,000 copies of Moore's Almanac, which
abounds in such predictions, and of similar publications, is a striking proof
of the belief which is still attached to the doctrines of Astrology in our own
age and country."

In spite of the venom which the reverend gentleman has
tried to heap on the science of Astrology and its professors, and
probably no man has tried harder to crush that profession than the
Rev. Thomas Dick, the reader can see for himself that it was
impossible for him not to praise the science, and prove that it has been
practiced in every age and nation on the face of the earth, and believed
in by the learned men, the nobility, and kings and queens.

The next persons whom 1 shall refer to as having written and pub-
lished works condemning Astrology are William and Robert Chambers,
of Edinburgh, Scotland.

In Chambers' Encyclopedia, published at Edinburgh, Scotland, and
republished by J. B. Lippincott & Co., of Philadelphia, in 1872, under
the word Astrology, the following is said :

"Astrology meant originally much the same as Astronomy, the knowl-
edge of the stars, and was at length restricted to the science of predicting
future events, especially the fortunes of men from the position of heav-
enly bodies. This cwas considered the higher or real science, while the mere
knowledge of the stars themselves, their places, and motions, or Astronomy,
was, till a very recent period, cultivated mostly with a view to judicial
Astrology. Astrology is one of the most ancient forms of superstition, and
is found prevailing among the nations of the East, Egyptians, Chaldeans,
Hindoos, Chinese at the very dawn of history. The Jews became much
addicted to it after their captivity. It spread into the West and to Rome
about the beginning of the Christain era. Astrologers played an important
part at Rome, where they were called Chaldeans and Mathematicians, and
though often banished by the Senate and Emperor under pain of
death, and otherwise persecuted, they continued to hold their ground.
The Roman poet, Manilus, author of an astronomical poem still extant,
was addicted to Astrology, and even Ptolemy." [The writer here refers

to Claudius Ptolemy, the author of the Ptolemaic System of Astronomy and
" Ptolemy Tetrabiblos," or Four Books on Astrology. These books have

* In the Lives of Necromancer, by William Goodwin, on page 251. he says,: "That Robert
Dudley, Elizabeth's chief favorite was sent to consult Dr. Dee, a famous Astrologer, as to the
aspects of the stars, that they might fix on an auspicious day for celebrating her coronation."



20 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

stood the test of over 2,000 years, and are text-books on that science
at the present day. J " The Astronomer did not escape the infection which
in his time had become universal. It accorded well with the predestinarian
doctrines of Mohammedanism, and was accordingly cultivated with great
ardor by the Arabs from the 7th to the 13th century. For centuries the
most learned men continued devoted to the delusive science. Regiomonta-
nus, the famous mathematician j Carda, even Tycho Brahe and Kepler,
could not shake off the fascination of Astrology. Kepler could not deny a
certain connection between the position of the planets and the qualities of
those born under them."

The Astrologers who lived in the era of the above scientific and
learned men were certainly in very good company, to say the least, and
the law makers and senators must certainly have been an ignorant and
prejudiced class, similar to what they are at the present day. In all

ages and nations, especially in Christian countries, it has been the cus-

tom for legislators to enact laws to supprese everything that was not
popular with the masses, as they say the rights of the few must give way
to the majority. If it was religion, the professors were imprisoned or
executed for being heretics ; if it was science, its advocates were im-
prisoned or executed for being witches or wizards. If the intelligence

of the people of any country were such that they rebelled against such
fanatic laws, so that they could not be enacted, or if such laws were
enacted and the legislatures were compelled to repeal them, yet in all such
countries there has always been invented traps or snares to catch these

persons advocating any new doctrine or science, or in some way com-
pelling such persons to break or violate some law that had no relation to,

and was never intended to oppose that science or new religion which the
professors were teaching or advocating.*

In the days of Christ we read in Matthew, 226. chapter, from 15th
to 23d verses, that the Pharisees took counsel to entrap Christ in his

talk, and on a subject that had nothing whatever to do with the religion

he was teaching, but related to the subject of tribute or taxes which the

Jews had to pay. Judea previously having been conquered by the Ro-
mans, the people of that country were compelled to pay tribute to their

conquerers ; and they knew if they could get Christ to say that the Jews
were not to pay tribute, then the authorities would have Christ
arrested, and if he said the Jews were to pay tribute then the

Jews would condemn him. But Christ said, " Why tempt me, ye
hypocrites? Show me the tribute money. And they brought unto him
a penny, and he said, Whose is this image and superscription? And thev
said unto him, Caesar's. Then said he unto them, Render unto Caesar

* After the election and inauguration of Grover Cleveland in 189], business came almost to a
stands! ill and banks were failing daily. Vast numbers of the unemployed commenced marching
from Ohio to Washington, D. C. to urge Congress to do something to relieve the distress
of the unemployed. They went by the name of Coxey's Army. That individual and his follow-
ers having arrived in Washington, were marching up the Capitol grounds, and the crowd was
such that Coxey could not pass, neither could he retreat, and in order to pass he stepped on the
grass. The moment he did so he was arrested, although there were thousands of others walking
on the grass. He was tried, not for any criminal act he had committed, but because he did not
" keep off the grass." Of course the trial was a farce, yet I believe he had to suffer imprisonment
for several weeks.



"

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 21

the things that are Caesar's and unto God the things that are God's."
And Matthew goes on to say, " they went their way."

" A KNOWLEDGE OF ASTROLOGY DOES NOT COUNT, EXCEPT SO FAR AS IT
PROVES A PERSON INSANE OR AN IMBECILE."

Chambers' Encyclopedia states that John Kepler was the greatest
Astronomer of all ages. He was born near Stuttgart, Germany, Decem-
ber 2j, 1571. It was he who discovered what is known as the first

three great laws in Astronomy. " The first law is that the planets

move in elipses, with the Sun in one of the foci. The second, that

the Radius-vector sweeps over equal areas in equal times. The third,

that the square of the periodical time is proportional to the cube of
the same distance." He made other great discoveries in Astronomy,
and was also a noted mathematician.

Kepler also made many discoveries in Astrology, among others
what is called Kepler's Aspects ; these are the semi-sextile, the semi-
square, the quintile, and the sesquiquadrate and the biquintile.

Robert G. Ingersoll, in one of his popular lectures, praises John
Keplar on account of his knowledge of Astronomy and states that

the scientific world is indebted to that great man for wonderful dis-

coveries in that science, but at the same time Ingersoll condemns
Astrology and compares it to the superstitions of the Christian

religion, and he entirely ignores John Kepler's discoveries in Astrol-

ogy, or at least they do not count with that popular infidel. In
some respects Robert G. Ingersoll may be compared to the people
in England and other Christian nations. Some years ago, when Lord
DufFerin was British Ambassador at Constantinople, he one day heard
a number of cannons firing in the street or public square, and went
out to make inquiries as to what was the cause of the celebration.

One of the Turkish officers whom he asked told him that the gov-
ernment had been making reforms for the Christians in the Turkish
dominions, and said this was the day these reforms took effect.

The officer also said "
: By the way, we have also made reforms for

the Mohammedans, and they also go into effect to-day, but vou
know reforms for the Mohammedans do not count with you
Christian people." It appears that discoveries in Astrology do nff count
with either Christians or infidels.

"Strange such a diffeience there should be
'Twixt tweedledum and tweedledee."

Is it any wonder John Kepler " could not shake ofF the fascination

of Astrology ? " For in addition to proving the "connection between the
position of the planets and the qualities of those born under them," he
also states that he had had " an unfailing experience of the influence of
the planets by the conjunction and aspects, which had instructed and
compelled his unwilling belief.

In a small work called " The Uses of Biography," by Edwin Pax-
ton Hood, London, England, published in 1853, in Chapter VII., the



22 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

writer gives an account of the foibles and vices of great men, and on
pages 116 and 117 we have the following sentences:

"Cardinal Richelieu, the minister of a great Empire (France) believed
in the calculation of nativities. Even Sir Isaac Newton gave credit to the
idle nonsense of judicial Astrology ; he who first calculated the distances
of the stars and revealed the laws of motion by which the Supreme Being
organizes and keeps in their orbits unnumbered worlds; he who had
revealed the mysteries of the stars themselves. Dryden, Sir Isaac Newton's

1 '

contemporary, believed in the same absurdity.
[Is it not strange that a man may excel in all the modern sciences, and even

make wonderful discoveries in such as Astronomy and mathematics, and be
counted sane and sensible, and even a very learned man, but the moment
he touches Astrology, by some legerdemain, he is said instantly to become
insane or a scoundrel ? There is no doubt but Sir Isaac Newton was an
excellent Astrologer, and even calculated his own and probably most of his
friend's horoscopes. Cardinal Richelieu no doubt understood Astrology,
but probably he employed eminent Astrologers to do the most of the cal-

culations for him in his judicial Astrology, as had Queen Elizabeth.]
"It is published by William Congreve, an English actor, and the same

was also published in the Encyclopedia Britanica, and a number of other
publications) that John Dryden calculated his son Charles' horoscope, and
the predictions were fulfilled to the letter. Mr. Congreve states 'that when
Mrs. Dryden commenced in labor of her son Charles, Dryden left his watch
in charge of one ofthe ladies in attendance with a strict injunction to notice
the exact moment ofthe child's birth. In about a week after her confinement
Mr. Dryden took the occasion to tell his wife that he had calculated the
child's horoscope and observed w th grief that the child was born in an evil

hour. That Jupiter,Venus and the Sun were all under the earth, and the Lord
ofthe ascendant was afflicted with a hateful square of Saturn and Mars. He
went on to tell her that if he lives to arrive at his 8th birthday he will come
near a violent death, but if he escapes that, and I see but small hopes that
he will, in his 23d year he will again be under the same evil direction,

and if he escapes that also, the 3 3d and 34th years will, I fear— There he
was interrupted by the grief of Lady Dryden, who could no longer hear one
calamity after another prophesied for her new-born son.'

"When young Dryden arrived near his 8th year, it was arranged that
Lady Dryden should spend the Summer vacation with her Uncle Mour-
dant, and Mr. Dryden was invited to the country seat of the Earl of
Berkshire, his brother-in-law, to spend his vacation." [It appears from
the account published that Dryden had two sons, John and Charles

;

it was arranged that each of them should take one of the boys. Lady
Dryden wished her husband to take John, as she desired to have Charles
with her, feeling that he would be safer under her maternal care than in

his father's company, " but Dryden insisted on taking Charles, and they
parted in anger."

" On the child's Sth birthday it was arranged by the Earl of Berkshire
that his guests should go hunting, and Dryden, to keep the child out of mis-
chief, set him a double lesson in Latin, with a strict injunction that he
should not go out ofthe house. Charles was performing his duty in obedi-
ence to his father, but as ill-fate would have it the stag made towards the
house, and the noise alarming the servants they hastened out to see the
sport. One of the servants took young Dryden by the hand and led him
out to see it also ; when just as they came to the gate, the stag being at bay
with thedejs, made a bold push and leaped over the court wall, which was



:

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY 23

low and very old, and the dogs following threw down a part of the wall ten

yards in length, under which Charles Dryden lay buried. He was immedi-
ately dug ont, and after six weeks languishing in a dangerous way he recov-
ered. In the 23d year of his age, Charles fell from the top of an old tower
belonging to the Vatican at Rome, occasioned by a dizziness with which he
was seized, the heat of the day being excessive. He again recovered, but
was ever after in a languishing, sickly state. In the 33d year of his age,
being returned to England, he was unhappily drowned at Windsor. He
had, with another gentleman, swam twice across the Thames, but
returning a third time, it was supposed he was taken with a cramp,
because he called out for help, though too late. The father's calculation
proved but too prophetical."

Some persons will say, what is the use calculating horoscopes
when the fate is inevitable and cannot be avoided, or in any way
warded off, even when the nature of the accident and the time of the

event has been predicted? But the reader ought to bear in mind that the

aspects in this nativity are what are called marked. The mere expres-

sion of Mr. Dryden's, that " the child was born in an evil hour (mean-
ing an evil planetary hour) ; Venus, Jupiter and the Sun were
all under the earth, the ascendant being afflicted with a hate-

ful square of Mars and Saturn," alone proves that he was
an Astrologer, and also that the child had a marked horoscope
and that it would die a violent death. It also shows that the

ascendant was what is termed the " Giver of Life," and being so

afflicted it was almost impossible for the native to die a natural death.

Therefore in horoscopes of this kind, the stars are said to rule or gov-
ern the native, and the native does not rule the stars, but he is con-
trolled by them.

Horoscopes, like that of Charles Dryden, are the exception
and not the rule, but when we meet with them there is nothing more
convincing of the truth of Astrology. Indeed, in this kind of nativities

Astrology becomes a positive or exact science, and in such cases it is

almost useless fighting against fate. In the case of young Dryden,
although he had wealthy, kind and indulgent parents, also servants to

take special care of him, yet those servants went and led him into the
very evil they were charged to guard him against. With such " unfail-

ing experience " no wonder when such men as Sir Isaac Newton
s

John Kepler, Cardinal Richelieu and John Dryden could see such con-
vincing proofs of the truth of Astrology that they should look upon the
science of Astronomy only as an elementary branch of the science of
Astrology, as we look upon A, B, C, or the English alpha-
bet, as merely the elements of language. But the real science of lan-

guage only begins when we associate these letuers into syllables and
words, and associate meanings to words, and then associate words into
sentences, and those sentences into paragraphs, etc.

William and Robert Chambers, in their Encyclopedia, say that

" Astronomy or the knowledge of the stars was till a very recent
period cultivated mostly with a view to judicial Astrology," and that " this
(Astrology) was considered the higher or real science^ and as Richard A.



24 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Proctor says : " That throughout the long period, to be measured by thou-
sands of years, when all men held this belief, the most part held what
anciently had been the belief of all," and "to this day are not all languages
permeated by the expressions belonging to the old astrological teachings?"

The reader ought to bear in mind that those men who held to this
" belief" were at that time the most learned men on the face of the
earth, and were all able to calculate nativities, and to prove the truth

of their observations, and no doubt they were all similar to John Dry-
den and John Kepler, who had had "a most unfailing experience of
the excitement of sublunary nature by the conjunctions and aspects of
the planets " in those horoscopes which they calculated.

Thus far I wish the reader to understand that in this section I have
only been giving the evidence of witnesses against Astrology. If I were
a lawyer and were pleading the cause of Astrology before a judge and
jury, I think I should be justified in requesting the judge to throw the case

out of court if the opponents of that science had no further evidence to

offer, as the proof against Astrology so far is not valid or proved beyond a

reasonable doubt. But on the contrary the evidence has gone altogether
in favor of the truth of that science. But as a vast number of authors
who have written against Astrology during the past two hundred years

have employed what they term arguments against the science, and which
they deem very conclusive, I think I ought to give some, if not all, of
those arguments, and then let the readers judge for themselves. If the
reader has been surprised at the testimony already brought by the wit-

nesses against Astrology, I think he will be much more surprised with
their arguments ; as these arguments could not possibly stand a moment
against any other science, no matter how ridiculous or nonsensical that

science might be, and the only reason that I can account for these argu-
ments having been brought against Astrology is that the people at large

must be more or less insane and incapable of judging fairly in the mat-
ter. Possibly I am like the man who was confined in an insane asylum.
When his friends went to see him they inquired why such a sensible

man as he was thus confined. He made answer by saying: "It was
only a matter of opinion which caused my confinement ; I said that all

the world was crazy, and they said I was crazy, and the majority
ruled."

THE SUPPOSED ARGUMENTS WHICH THE ENEMIES OF
ASTROLOGY HAVE BROUGHT AGAINST THAT
SCIENCE.

One of the main arguments those professors always bring against

Astrology is the law of gravitation. They argue that " as the Sun,
Moon, planets and Stars are so far away from the earth, and man being
such a small body, that the law of gravitation or attraction must have
such a very insignificant effect on him that it is impossible to be felt or
calculated, or that it can have any influence whatever." If it could be
proven that the law of gravitation was the only law, force, or influence

in the heavens above, or on the earth beneath, or in the water under



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 2$

the earth, and that the planets and signs of the Zodiac or the Sun or
Moon could not act on the earch and its inhabitants in any other man-
njr, then that argument might have some weight, but until that is

proven no person but one perfectly ignorant of the laws of nature would
think of making use of such a plea yet I have known graduates

;

and professors of colleges to bring it forward, deeming themselves
very learned and wise in being able to urge such a weighty consid-
eration against the science of Astrology, and in their wisdom they
laughed at me for stating my belief in that science, and at my proofs
of such belief.

Any person having a knowledge of modern science, I think, must
admit that there are other influences and laws at work in nature, besides

the law of gravitation. Take, for instance, the science of electricity.

There are laws and principles in that science that are altogether at

variance with the laws of gravitation, so far as we understand them at the

present day, or are ever likely to understand them.
The rapid progress that is now being made in electrical science is

simply astonishing. It looks at the present time that electricity is going
to supersede steam and coal gas, and that before long our machinery,
ships, railways and mills will be run by electricity, and that our houses
will be lighted and warmed by that method.

Only compare electricity at the present day with what it was a

hundred years ago, and the reader must admit that it is simply marvel-
ous. Even if the professors of colleges could have had proofs at that

time that there was no other force or influence in existence but the

law of gravitation, such proofs would have very little weight at the
present day ; besides, there are other new forces constantly cropping
out ; we need only to look at photography at the present day, and look
at it fifty years ago and compare the difference. The discov-
ery of the X-Ray is another remarkable proof of forces and laws existing

in nature that were previously never thought or dreamed of.

In the early part of the present century, Professor Faraday, of Eng-
land, in studying the galvanic cells, discovered that two electric cur-
rents are in motion, and he named one " Cathode," the other "Anode."
The first name was applied to the current entering the cell and the lat-

ter to the one leaving. These currents when passing through glass tubes
produce a spark or glow. Other electricians and chemists have made
investigations in that direction until Professor Roentgen, of Germany, in

the latter part of 1895, was able to photograph through a plank or wood
a foot in thickness, and various other substances which formerly it was
believed that light never entered. Aluminum is very susceptible of
having light transmitted through it. This light is believed to be
the quintescence that the old philosophers tried to discover and
make use of for thousands of vears. Professor Edison has improved
on those experiments by the use of electric light, and what is termed
the X-Ray

; and there is no telling at the present day what may be
accomplished in that direction at some future time in the arts and
sciences.



26 -ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

The ancient philosophers and Astrologers divided everything on the
earth into four divisions, which they styled the elements or essences,

and which four elements they named fire, earth, air and water; they
also divided the heavenly bodies into those elements or essences, especi-

ally the signs of the Zodiac, and the planets, and the Sun and the
Moon. The signs of the Zodiac were called the trigons or triplicities.

The fiery signs were Aries, Leo, Sagittary; the earthy signs were Tau-
rus, Virgo and Capricorn ; the airy signs were Gemini, Libra and Aqua-
rius, and the watery signs were Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces. The signs

of any particular triplicity are in trine aspect to each other. The fiery

signs were termed hot and dry; the earthy signs, cold and dry; the
airy signs were hot and moist, and the watery signs were cold and
moist. They also divided the nature or qualities of planets into
these four elements or essences. The planet Saturn is cold and drv

;

Jupiter is hot and moist; Mars is hot and dry ; the Sun is called tem-
perate; that is, neither hot nor cold, and neither dry nor moist. Venus
is cold and moist. Mercury is termed changeable, and it depends on
what aspect it has to other planets, and is so controlled by their natures
whether those planets are cold or moist, hot or dry, etc. The Moon
is cold and moist.

Besides these four elements or essences of nature, the ancients were
confident that another essence existed, which they called the quint-
essence, from the Latin quinti, five, and they believed that this quint-
essence pervaded all nature by a peculiar ether, that penetrated all

nature, both animate and inanimate, on the same principle that the X-Ray
discovered by Professor Roentgen penetrates or is transmitted through
all bodies, especially animal and vegetable. And the ancients also

believed that it even extended from one planet to another, and from
the Sun to the Moon and the earth.

The ancients spent much time and labor in trying to get at and
understand the quintessence by all kinds of chemical experiments and
processes, and these philosophers were afterwards called alchemists.

Hence we have the word chemistry derived from "alchemist."
I have a number of large volumes that were written and published

hundreds of years ago by those alchemists, which treat altogether on
this quintessence; they believed that in some way this influ-

ence or quintessence of the planets acted on the earth and its inhabi-

tants, and ruled, controlled or influenced the earth and its inhabi-

tants. And those passages in the Bible referred to in a former
part of this work referred to the Astrologers who were possessed of
that belief.

At the present day it is generally believed by most learned

men that all light and sound and other phenomena of nature
are produced in some way by this universal principle and all-

pervading ether or quintessence. Mr. Keeley, of Philadelphia,

has been working on this quintessence most of his life, and hopes to

produce a substance that he thinks will revolutionize all motive power,
as steam power superseded hand or manual labor, and which will



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 2J

eventually do away with steam or electricity as a motor. But no matter
how the planets act on the earth and its inhabitants, there is one
thing that is certain and absolute, that is, that they do act in one way
or another. Any person giving the subject a thorough investigation

cannot deny that fact. The young student of Astrology may have to cal-

culate and look through a number of horoscopes before he can bring

one positive fact to bear in proving the science absolutely true, on account
of the influence of the planets, one operating on and against

another, and presenting conflicting testimony, as it is termed.
As an illustration, the chemists may have to search through
material nature a long time to find a piece of pure iron, or gold or silver,

or of other substance not in combination with any other sub-

stance or metal. But when he can find the pure article he knows it

has certain qualities or properties which it always retains when in a pure
state ; so when we can get any particularly clear aspect, or plane-

tary influence, the effect is always certain, but the effects may not
always be exactly the same. For instance, I will mention that the
signs of the Zodiac, besides being divided into fiery, earthy, airy and
watery signs, are also divided into what is termed " tall " and
" slender " and "short" and " stout " signs, and " light " signs, and
" dark " signs, and so are the planets also divided into " tall," " short,"
''dark," "light," "slender" or "stout" planets; persons born
under them are tall, short, light or dark, etc., and when we can find a

tall light sign on the ascendant, and the planet which rules or governs
that sign is in another tall light sign, or in the same tall or light sign in

the ascendant, and the Moon is in a similar tall light sign, the person
born at that time is always tall and light complexioned, and even if he
is a negro he is much lighter complexioned than negroes generally are

or either of his parents, and is also tall. When there is a short, stout sign

on the ascendant, and the planet which has the most influence in the

ascendant, or is lord of that sign, is in a short, stout sign, or in the same sign

in the ascendant the Moon also in a short, stout sign, that person is always
short and stout, no matter how tall and slender both his parents are.

Also in marriage there are certain rules in Astrology which I might
state never can be overcome, as they always have an effect. For
instance, if he marries, he always marries a lady described
by the planet that the Moon first applies to by aspect, if he
marries at all, and if the Moon makes an evil aspect of an evil planer,

say, for instance, the square or opposition of Saturn or Mars, and par
ticularly if there are evil planets in the seventh house (the house of

marriage) he is always unhappy in his married life. But if the Moon
makes a good aspect of a good planet, and there are good planets in the

seventh house, that person always lives happily in married life, no mat-

ter how vile or vicious he may be himself, he gets a good, affection-

ate wife, she almost worships him, and is very much affected at his

death. Also in a woman's horoscope ; .she marries a gentleman

described by the planet that the Sun first applies to by aspect, and if the

Sun makes an opposition or square of Saturn and Mars, and particularly



28 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

if there are evil planets in the seventh house, she always has a very
unhappy married life, but if the Sun makes a good aspect of a good
planet, and there are what are termed good planets in the seventh house,
that woman invariably lives a happy married life, and her husband cannot
see a fault in her. These facts are absolute, and the reader will readily
see that it would be impossible for such influences to be produced by
what are termed the laws of gravitation or attraction, or by the law Sir
Isaac Newton is said to have discovered. There are similar rules or
laws in Astrology in regard to scars, marks or moles. These marks
or moles are governed by particular planets in the various signs which
rule the human body. Also in regard to diseases or ailments of anv
particular part of the body, and the time of life they are likely to be
affected by evil planets, when transiting through these signs or in evil
aspect to planets in them. Whenever a person is sick these parts are
always most affected. I shall treat more fully on this subject later on
in this work.

If the enemies of Astrology had been sincere in their endeavor to

explode the science, they would have stated certain facts in particular
horoscopes, especially of noted persons, contradicting the statements
which I have made, instead of going off" into generalities and talking

about the laws of gravitation and centripetal and centrifugal forces,which
have nothing to do with Astrology, and Astrologers have nothing to do
with those laws.

The Rev. Thomas Dick, of Scotland (instead of disproving the

facts which I have stated, and which may be found in text-books
on Astrology), in his book called "Improvement of Society by
the Diffusion of Knowledge," says on page 3 1 :

" The planetary bodies, indeed, may in certain cases have some degree
of physical influence on the earth by virtue of their attractive power, but
that influence can never affect the operation of moral causes or the qualities

of the mind. Even although it were admitted that the heavenly bodies
have an influence over the destinies of the human race, the principles and
rules on which Astrologers proceed in constructing horoscopes and calcula-
ting nativities are nothing else than mere assumptions, and their pretensions
nothing short of criminal impositions upon the credulity of mankind."

Did Mr. Dick write this sentence in pure ignorance, or was it a

deliberate falsehood on his part ? He must have known that there

were thousands of astrological works published in England and in differ-

ent parts of Europe, which gave the data and formula for making the

calculations and predicting the fate of men. In other words, did he
think that because he had never read and studied these books no one
else had ever done so, and that every person was ignorant of the exist-

ence of such books ? There are a great many persons in

Europe and the United States who have read and studied these works if he
has not ; and the " cuneiform inscriptions of Assyria, the hieorglyphs of
Egypt, the most ancient records of Persia, India and China " prove
beyond a question that the science of Astrology has been known, studied

and practiced in all Eastern countries almost since Adam's time.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 20,

To afford an idea of the ridiculous arguments which the Rev. Thomas
Dick, William and Robert Chambers and others have brought against

Astrology, I will here give one or two special illustrations.

Let us suppose that a man has been engaged all his life in

studying and teaching the English grammar, his father and grand-
father for hundreds of years having been thus engaged ; that this man and
his forefathers and all their friends and relations have learned and taught

it almost ever since the language has been spoken, and never discovered
that this science had been exploded, but on the contrary their experience
had gone to prove that English grammar is a true science and firmly

based on the laws of language and that it could not be exploded so long
as the laws of nature remained unchanged. On the other hand,
suppose that all persons who did not know the first elements of

English grammar, and had had no practical experience in teach-

ing it, had been told and believed that that science had
been exploded. Would those latter persons' arguments or evi-

dence be sufficient proof to convince any sane person that

the rules of English grammar were false, and its teachers and professors

were frauds ; or to use Professor Proctor's words that " they were all

ignorant and silly knaves or rogues or charlatans," simply because the

former taught and practiced something which the latter had never
learned ?

To take another view of the case, let us suppose that another set

of men and their forefathers had been engaged in learning, practicing and
teaching arithmetic for hundreds of years, and that they had equal con-
fidence in their science, but those persons learning, teaching and practic-

ing arithmetic are not satisfied with bringing proofs and facts that their

science is true and founded on the laws of nature, but must
bring the rules of arithmetic to bear on English grammar. Let us

suppose that they commenced by first stating their sums, and by adding
a noun and a verb together to make an exclamation, or they tried to

take a verb from an adverb and wanted a participle to remain, or they
took a noun from a pronoun and wanted a verb to remain, or they tried

to state a sum by saying as a verb is to an adverb, so is a noun to a pro-
noun, and so on. Or again, suppose the grammarian wanted to

explode arithmetic by his science and commenced by trying to parse
the multiplication table, and try to see what mood and tense any
particular number or figure was in, or whether it was in the nominative,
possessive or objective case, and so on to the end of the chapter.
Any science or learning could be exploded by such a method, and yet
these are the only kinds of arguments that have been brought against

Astrology ; or, in other words, the only arguments I have ever
seen published, except those from the Bible, and they so Herod
out Herod that it is not worth while referring to them.

There are other sciences or professions besides Astrologv that have
been assailed in almost a similar manner, and by parties trying to explode
or refute one science by another. We have a remarkable instance in



3° ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

the science of homeopathy, and the allopathic physician trying to ex-
plode that science by the allopathic practice of medicine.

I must say that for a long time in my youths I was very much
opposed to homeopathy and its principles, and thought it alto-

gether contrary to common sense or the laws of chemistry or physi-
ology. I was brought up to believe that the more we got any medicine
or drug concentrated, the more wonderful its curative effects

became; or, in other words, the more we could get rid of the extraneous
matter of a drug, the stronger it became, and the more efficiently it acted
on the complaint or diseased part. For instance, a chemist would dis-

till and redistill any particular liquid or spirit, to get it as pure
as possible. He would sublimate and resublimate any particular
drug also to get it as concentrated as possible ; or, in other words, the
doctor or chemist would try to get at what is termed the quintessence
of the drug. The ancient chemist or alchemist thought that if they
could once get the universal solvent they might discover the " Elixir of
Life," and they would then have a remedy for all diseases, and the people
would die only o f extreme old age. But the professors of the
homeopathic practice of medicine have gone on the other tack ; they
commence by diluting a medicine, and constantly diluting the pure
drug or remedy, believing at the same time that the drug will become
move potent or stronger by constant dilution, or by adding extraneous
matter, such as sugar of milk, or water or alcohol to the original drug, and
at the same time triturating or shaking it.

The homeopathic physician claims that a drug or medical plant has
two principles or actions when administered to a sick person ; that it has
a primary action, and afterwards a secondary effect. For instance, a

person may take a dose of castor oil. The first action is that of
a cathartic ; its secondary action is as an astringent, and a

person continuing to take the same drug, it will have a tendency
to cause constipation. When the patient again takes the oil he has
to increase the dose, and each time has to do so to produce the same
effect ; or, in other words, the patient gradually becomes more and
more constipated the more castor oil he takes. It is the same with any
other cathartic medicine. The same principle applies in the liquor

habit, also in the morphine, tobacco, or snuff habits. They have either

to make the whiskey or drug stronger or increase the quantity from
time to time to produce the same effect.

For instance, I once read of a certain judge who had to take a whole
box of cathartic pills every morning, in order that he might have an
evacuation during the day.

In my early years I remember a cousin of mine. Dr. William
Broughton, who made great fun of the homeopathic practice of medi-
cine. In short, it was a regular standing joke or butt with him, and yet

every day he was practicing or doctoring on the homeopathic princi-

ple, but did not know it. In giving an account of a case of
diarrhoea which he had cured after all the other doctors had
failed, he stated that his remedy was a very small quantity of castor



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 3 1

oil, only half a teaspoonful, every day, and the astringent property of
the oil had entirely cured the diarrhoea. To make this matter a little

plainer to the reader, I will state that the human constitution is so

organized that when any extra action of any part of the body is pro-
duced, nature not only repairs that loss or injury received, but adds a

little more to it, or makes the parts stronger so as to be better prepared
for the next over-exertion or special action. For instance, if a man
who has very delicate or soft hands should commence working with a

shovel or crowbar, his hands for the first day or so will get very eore

and tender, but afterwards, if he continues that work, nature makes the
skin thicker and harder, and the more he uses or wears those parts of the
hands, the harder, thicker and tougher the skin becomes. Therefore,
the next time he commences shoveling or working with a crowbar,
he can work longer before his hands become tender or sore. It is

the same in the lining of the intestines. When a person takes a dose of

castor oil or anything which produces a special action of those parts,

nature not only repairs the damage done, but also adds to the thickness

of the inner coating or lining of the intestines, so that the next dose of

medicine will not have such an injurious effect as the first, and
it is found by experience that the secondary action (as it is sometimes
called) or the tendency of nature to more than repair the effect or
damage done to the human system by any particular cause or drug is

more to be relied upon in its curative effects than any primary action of

a drug or remedy ; and the point to be aimed at is to get as small a pri-

mary action as possible, and the secondary action is not reduced in its

effect in proportion to the small primary action of a drug, but in many
cases the secondary reaction is even stronger or more potent when the
primary cause is reduced or weakened by trituration with sugar of milk,
or any unmedicinal substance. It is certain that homeopathic doctors
make a great many wonderful cures, and if we can judge by past experi-
ence it appears that in the course of time homeopathy will be the main
if not the only practice of medicine throughout the whole civilized

world, and it is the only science of medicine that has yet been discov-
ered which is governed by or in accord with nature's laws and is to be
relied on in almost all cases. But still homeopathic doctors go a little

too far in stating that there never has been and never can be a cure
made of any disease or derangement of any part of the human system
which has not been and is not cured on the homeopathic principle, or
the law of " similia similibus curantur," or 'Mike cures like." There
is no doubt that there have been some cures made by assisting nature
and using remedies that have acted on the principle of the primary effect

of a drug, similar to the primary action of castor oil relieving consti-

pation for the time being, even if it does not cure perma-
nently. But generally the primary effect of a remedy or drug has a ten-

dency to confirm or establish the disease and causes it to be incurable
;

hence so many allopathic doctors' patients become confirmed invalids,

and has a doctor all the time until death comes to their relief.

Samuel Hahneman has the credit of discovering the principle of



;

32 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

" similia similibus curantur," and its action in the human economy,
and which principle had been overlooked or neglected, if not entirely

ignored, by the doctors of the allopathic school. Thousands if not
millions of lives of human beings have been saved by homeopathy, and
the lives of those patients would have been destroyed by the old-school
practice ofmedicine. Yet the allopathic doctors have done everything pos-
sible to crush homeopathic and all other kinds of practitioners of medicine
out of existence. They have been abused by the old-school physicians
similar to the manner in which Richard A. Proctor abused Astrologers,
by calling them all kinds of vile names, such as quacks, imposters, frauds,

humbugs, etc. But the allopaths ought to bear in mind that abuse is

the weakest of all arguments. I shall again refer to this subject further
on in this volume.

It is impossible to prove or disprove the science or practice of
homeopathy by allopathy, or to prove or disprove allopathy by homeo-
pathy. They each work or travel on different lines, and I might
say in opposite directions, to accomplish the same result, and each must
stand on its own merits, and prove its truth by its success in practice

or, in other words, " The proof of the pudding must be in the eating of
it." But the persecution and imprisonment of homeopathic -physicians

and calling them vile names does not prove the allopathic practice of
medicine to be the only true and correct practice, neither does it dis-

prove homeopathy.
We have other remarkable illustrations of the folly of profes-

sors of one science trying by their rules and laws to explode another
science that is governed by altogether different principles and laws
in the instances of electricity and mesmerism. During the time of
Benjamin Franklin, over one hundred years ago, the science of elec-

tricity was not in the developed condition that we find it in at the

present day probably if it had been, the professors of that science would
;

have attended. to their own business, and would have left mesmerism
alone to explode itself. But in those days the scientists must try

their hand at exploding animal magnetism by the science of elec-

tricity. So the French Academy of Science appointed a committee of
savants, and among that committee was Benjamin Franklin, to examine
into the theory and practice of Doctor Mesmer's animal magnetism,
but instead of investigating what was then termed mesmerism, and now
called hypnotism, they brought what knowledge they had of the science

of electricity to bear on the subject, and, of course, they could not help

exploding it. Dr. Mesmer was declared to be a fraud and
an impostor, and was driven out of Pari^, and I believe out of
France altogether — as the allopathic doctors drove Samuel Hahne-
mmn out of Germany. How much more the science of electricity

might have been advanced at the present day had those learned men or

savants given their whole attention to it and let mesmerism
explode itself; in that case they might have discovered some method or

law by which Benjamin Franklin's lightning rod would not have been
discarded at the present day, and which has been proved perfectly use-



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 33

less in preventing buildings from being struck or set on fire by lightning.

It did not require any committee of French savants to explode the

lightning rod, as it exploded itself, and the Yankee peddlers no
longer travel all over the Un'ted States and other countries boring and
frightening almost to death the poor old farmers, and almost compel-
ling them to have lightning rods put upon their stables, barns and
houses : which expense is now saved, and the poor farmer is not
swindled out of his earnings by swindlers called lightning-rod peddlers.

In those days the general belief was that all tall buildings, as church
steeples and other high structures, were more likely to be struck by
lightning than low buildings. Therefore such buildings had to have
lightning rods extending beyond the highest part of the structure or the

owners could not get them insured; and yet we are having buildings put
up at the present day from 20 to 30 stories high (called sky-scrapers), and
none of the owners of these buildings ever dream of protecting them
from lightning by Benjamin Franklin's lightning-rod. On the

other hand, in spite of Franklin and the savants of France, mesmer-
ism or hypnotism still lives and is growing, and is likely to grow
and spread.

Benjamin Franklin and the French savants were either deluded
or mistaken in their investigation of mesmerism, or else the people of
the present day are entirely mistaken in their notions on hypnotism.
We have a remarkable instance of this in a murder trial in a Western
State, where it was proved and admitted that a man murdered a

young lady for the insurance money on her life, yet he was not executed
but confined in prison as an accomplice. Another man, who had wit-

nesses to prove an alibi, and also proved that it was impossible for him
to have committed the deed, as he was miles awav at the time of the
murder, was brought in guilty by the jury, sentenced to death
by the judge, and executed, because it was believed by the jury
that he had mesmerized or hypnotized the man who had committed
the murder. I refer to the case of Harry Hayward, who was hung
at 2:10 a.m. on December Ilth, 1895, in Minneapolis, Minn.*

" When the innocent is convicted, the judge is condemned."

* STORY OF THE CRIME.
The crime for which Harry Hayward was hanged was one of the most remarkable of this

century.
On the night of December 3, 1894, the body of Miss Catherine Ging was found in a tamarac

swamp on the further shore of Lake Calhoun, a tew miles from Minneapolis, Minn. About t he
same time a horse, drawing an empty buggy, with blood besmeared over the cushions and sides,
walked into Gossman's livery stable, where it had been hired early in the evening by Miss
Ging

Rigid and searching inquiry was at once instituted by the authorities. It developed that
Miss Ging had her life insured for $10,000, the policies being made payable to Harry Hayward.

This directed suspicion toward him, and after being under surveillance for a few days, he was,
together with his brother Adry, taken in custody.

As Hayward was at the theatre on the night of the murder, it was shown conclusively that he
did not do the actual killing.

Then Adry told a remarkable storv. He said that Harrv had plotted to kill Miss Ging for

the life insurance money and wanted his assistance, which was refused. Some days before the
murder Adry had told the story to L. M. Stewart, an old and respected citizen and long-time
friend of the family.

Mr. Stewart dismissed it as an idle yarn and onlv recalled it when the dead body of Miss
Ging was found in the lonjly tamarac swamp. Further investigation by the police developed the



34 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

How much more creditable it would have been to Dr. Franklin and
how much higher he would now stand in the estimation of the learned
world if he never had been colleagued with those French savants in

exploding mesmerism it is very difficult to say, but being interested

with them in assailing what is now a very interesting science
under the name of hypnotism, he proved himself a dupe, even if his

lightning-rod had not been a failure.

His biographers who wrote his life nearly one hundred years ago,
take particular notice of his being interested with the French savants,

and state particularly the great amount of good he did to the community
by exposing Dr. Mesmer and his system of treating or curing disease.

But at the present day Franklin's biographers, like Mr. Parton and
others, whose works I have read of late, have all skipped
over that part of Benjamin Franklin's life and do not even mention it,

as they know it was a dishonor to Franklin and the savants of France
to have been mixed up in any such disgraceful proceeding.

I might go on giving hundreds of other illustrations of the folly of

the professors of one science trying to explode another science by rules

and laws which do not belong to the latter, similar to the pro-
fessors of the science of Astronomy attempting to explode the science

of Astrology by principles and laws which have no reasonable applica-

tion.

But Astronomers ought to bear in mind that Astrology is not a

new science similar to Mesmerism or Phrenology, etc., but has been
taught and practiced in all ages, as well as the present day.

Outside of Europe and the United States there are more than three-

fourths of the inhabitants of the globe who are firm believers in

Astrology, and the more intelligent people who are living in those

parts, such, as Turkey, the East Indies, China, Japan, and other
nations, apply it in their everyday business, and in those countries

the Astrologers are as they were in ancient times, mentioned in the

Bible and other ancient histories, where the Kings, Emperors and
Pharoahs consulted them in all important matters. In like manner to-day
the Eastern Kings, Emperors and rulers never think of going to war or

undertaking any business of importance without first consulting the

Astrologers ; not only that, but no marriage of wealthy or noted

f.ict that Havward met Miss Ging that night and drove out as far as Thirteenth Street, where he
was met by Clans Blixt, the janitor in the employ of his father. Blixt drove Miss Ging out Cal-
houn road and shot her. He then came into town on foot, going to several places where he was
known for the purpose of establishing an alibi.

Hayward after leaving Miss Ging hurriedly retraced his steps and took a young society lady
to the theatre, sitting through the performance apparently unconscious of the tragedy which was
ih u being enacted. Blixt was afterwards arrested and confessed to the actual killing. He was
given a life sentence in the Stillwater Penitentiary. In telling his story he claimed that
Havward had him iu his power, exercising an influence over him that it was impossible to
resist. Havward himself was placed on trial, and despite the best legal talent that money could
buy, was found guilty of murder in t lie first degree and sentenced to death. The usual appeal to
the higher courts was made and overruled

A petition for clemency or commutation of the death sentence was denied by the chief execu-
tive of the State Medical experts agree that the man was abnormal and totally devoid ot all

moral sense and signed the petition simplv upon that point.
The condemned refused all spiritual advice during his stay in jail and spent most of his time

reviling and cursing his brother and others whom he charged with being.responsible for his con-
viction.—Copied from the New York Morning Journal, December n, 1895.
See appendix page 45 j.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 3$

persons is ever celebrated or consummated without consulting an
Astrologer, who by comparing their horoscopes determines whether the

parties to be married will agree or live happily ; in other words,
if it will be a fortunate marriage. Those who write on the

subject of marriage in India and China, and who make use

of Astrology in relation to marriage, and emigrants who come
to this and other western countries, especially to Europe to

lecture on these subjects, state that there is not one in a
thousand of such marriages which is not successful and happy.
In contrast to those marriages in India, China and Persia, I

will simply give one instance or illustration, it is that of the
Rev. Mr. Peters, who preached two sermons in a prominent church
in New York City in the latter part of 1895. In the forenoon he
preached on the evils and miseries that attended war, and pictured
very vividly the distress and suffering which war caused. In the evening
he preached on marriage and stated that the next thing to war in causing
misery in this life was unhappy marriages. He stated that he had married
over one thousand couples and scarcely one of that thousand were really

happy marriages. He advised women not to get married, but devote
themselves to charity and church duties instead.

The New York Sun in an editorial made fun of the Rev. Mr.
Peters by stating that a great many women who get divorces get them
for no other purpose but the pleasure of getting married again, and they
generally marry a second husband shortly alter getting rid of the first.

To give one proof of the importance that the Chinese place on the
position of the planets at the time of birth in a child's horoscope, I will

stare that on the 25th of July, 1895, at 1 a.m., there was born at No. 26
West 9th Street, New York City, a male child, the son of the Chinese
Consul to New York ; the event and the time of the birth was of
so much importance that the Consul went to the expense of cabling the
news to China, to be sent at once to an Astrologer for its horoscope to
be calculated. He did not wait for the news to travel by the fast

mail. There is no doubt the Consul paid about $2.50 a word
tor the cablegram, which would appear a large sum in China. After
the horoscope had been calculated the friends and relatives of the child
living in China would take the horoscope to a number of their friends
who had a girl born near or within a few years of the boy's time of
birth, and they would compare the position of the planets in each of
the horoscopes to see whether if they got married they would
agree and be happy, or it it would turn out what is termed a happy
marriage. For instance, the first thing they would look at in

the male's horoscope would be to observe what aspect the Moon
first made after the time of the child's birth, and they would see in this

case it first made a conjunction of Venus in the sign Virgo, which is

what we call a fortunate aspect for marriage. Then they would find
what aspect the Sun made in the female's horoscope, whom they
wish to negotiate with in regard to marriage. If the Sun made a good
aspect of a, good planet in a good house, that would be a favorable indi-



36 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

cation that she would live happy in her married life. They would also
see whether the female would answer to the description of the planet
Venus in the sign Virgo, which describes the future wife of that
particular male's horoscope. For instance, the planet Venus in the sign

Virgo would describe a rather tall, slender and slightly dark-complex-
ioned person, with dark hair, oval face, round forehead and soft,

expressive eyes; she would be very refined, also intelligent, fond of
music and the fine arts. In this manner they would go from one
friend's house to another until they met with a female's horoscope near
the same age that did agree in every particular with the one in hand, and
when they did meet with a horoscope which agreed in almost every
point they would then know that the couple would live happy when
married, and in such cases it is generally decided in their infancy that
they shall become man and wife when thev come to their proper age or
maturity.

This line of study and investigation and consulting Astrologers on
marriage has been practiced in China and in the East Indies and other
countries for thousands of years, or from time immemorial, and with
almost uniform success. In this work I shall insert the horoscope of the
Chinese Consul's son and give the rules and principles which the people of
China and the East adopt in arranging these marriages.

These laws and rules are more thoroughly understood in those
countries than even the principles and laws of breeding animals are

understood in the United States and Europe at the present day, and the
people there have continued this method of arranging mar-
riages by the principles and rules of Astrology for a much longer
period than the Western world has continued the breeding of domestic
animals, such as horses, cows, sheep, dogs, etc. The people of Europe
and America have by such methods of breeding and training brought
these animals almost to perfection in their various departments of ani-

mal culture within the last two or three hundfed years. What an evo-
lution in horses, both in the speed of running and trotting, and in their

perfect form, and also in their handsome appearance can be noticed in

the thoroughbred horse, to say nothing about improvement in the breed
of cows, sheep, dogs, pigeons, poultry, etc. I question whether the

people in China and parts of Africa and the East Indies would treat

the method that we employ in breeding and training and bringing to

such perfection the various animals that are used in America and
Europe with the same contempt that the Western world treats

Astrology and Astrologers at the present day.
To give an illustration to prove this remark, I need only refer to an

article which appeared in the New York Times on March 9th, 1895,
as follows :

" To the Editor of New York Times:
"Dear Sir:—Please cast my daughter's horoscope; she was born at 8:35

A.M. on July 2d, 1884, in New York City, and oblige
Yours respt., Mrs. Maud S.

" This letter is an exact copy of one that came to the Times office a few
days ago ; it gives some idea of what strange problems are constantly and



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY 37

confidently propounded for the journalist's solution. There is no reason to
suspect that Mrs. Maud S. wrote otherwise than in perfect good faith, or
that she does not really believe the data submitted to be sufficient basis for
calculations of practical value. It would be easy to concoct a 'horoscope'
more or less humorous and to connect it with the day and year she gives,
but it would be rather dreary fooling at best. The letter makes so plain
the mournful incompleteness of modern civilization, it betrays so clearly the
persistent survival here and to-day of debasing superstitions, and it makes so
terribly manifest the immeasurable harmful influences to which not a few
children are subjected by well-meaning parents in the metropolis of an
enlightened nation, that comment other than serious seems wholly out of
place."

From the tenor of the above letter it is evident that the editor of the
New York Times is not a first-class Astrologer ; if he had been he
would have either calculated the girl's horoscope or said nothing about
it, therefore he is not qualified to give an opinion on the science. Had
he lived in Babylon during the reign of Nebuchadnezzar he cer-

tainly would not have been elected member of the public schools of
that nation for being " ten times better than all the magicians
and Astrologers in the realm." Neither would he have " been made
master of all the magicians and Astrologers for his wisdom and under-
standing of Astrology " (see Daniel, Chapter I., verse 20, and 5th
chapter, verse 11). But on the contrary, his "debasing superstition"
and his " immeasurable, harmful influence " would have caused him to

be put at the foot of the class in those schools, or con-
fined in a dungeon, if he had not had the sense to keep silent.

"Therefore, it depends on the time and place, or on history and
geography " whether any "

science or learning is a " debasing superstition

and subjects its advocates to persecution and imprisonment, or its

professors are elevated to the highest positions in the realm, immedi-
ately under the king or emperor.

How difFerent the editors of a newspaper in any part of India

or China, or in any other Eastern country would have treated the letter

of Mrs. Maud S. if the time of birth had been sent to them to have the

horoscope calculated. As an instance of the importance the Chinese
attach to the horoscope of a child and to the time of birth, I need only
refer to the Chinese Consul, living at No. 26 West 9th Street, New
York City, referred to on page 35.

Had the editor understood Astrology, instead of exposing his igno-

rance as he did, he might have inserted the horoscope of Mrs. Maud
S.'s daughter and given the mother some very good advice, what line of
business or what profession she was best adapted for, or any special tal-

ents she possessed, and he might have warned the mother of certain con-
tingencies or misfortunes which would befall the child, and which she

might have guarded the child against if the mother could have obtained
such information.

As an illustration of what I mean I will here insert the horoscope of
the above time of birth, which is written similar to thousands which I

have published in daily and weekly newspapers,—The New York



38 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Sunday News, The Illustrated American, Pittsburg (Pa.) Dispatch,
Cincinnati Euquirer, Sunny South, Harrisburg Telegram, Louisville

Courier-Journal, Manchester (N. H.) Mirror, etc.

It is likely Mrs. Maud S. intended writing to the Sunday JVews,
a paper I had been writing for about two years.

Mrs. Maud S. 's daughter was born July 2d, 1884, at 8 : 35 a.m.,

N. Y. According to the time given above this young girl was born
under the Sun in the sign Cancer, with Leo on the ascendant, Jupiter,

Sun and Venus rising, and Saturn, Mercury and Neptune in the mid-
heaven.

When she comes to her full growth she will be near the medium
height, rather slender when young, but will gradually become quite lull

built, and will at the age of 40 weigh 180 pounds; rather light com-
plexion, light brown or almost flaxen hair (her hair will have a slight

yellowish tinge when a child), slightly full face, round forehead, full,

expressive eyes, rather prominent nose, have a straight, proud walk,
fond of dress and decoration, and always have a very neat, tidv appear-
ance. The rules of Astrology say that she will be harmless, cheer-
ful, pleasant, but at times indolent and not fond of employment or hard
work, but inclined to dancing and recreation, and very fond of the com-
pany of the opposite sex.

On the whole she has a rather fortunate horoscope, and will never
come to very low circumstances, or poverty, but will often be annoyed
by treachery from secret enemies or near neighbors.

She will generally enjoy fair health, and there is every probability of
her living to be quite old. She will at times be troubled with some
weakness of the back, kidneys and bladder, and palpitation of the heart,

and danger of indigestion and tightness of the chest. She will have to

avoid strong tea, coffee and stimulants and high-seasoned food ; if not,

she will suffer from nervousness, indigestion or weakness of the stomach
and liver.

She is a person of very good intellect, will learn rapidly and be fond
of the fine arts ; also will excel in mathematics or anything that requires

deep thought ; also be fond of Astrology, spiritualism, mesmerism, ete

She will have a fluent tongue and would succeed either as a public

speaker or writer for newspapers or magazines. She will find it very

difficult to retain money ; it will easily get out of her fingers, and
she will be unfortunate in regard to lending or assisting friends with money.
She will marry to rather good advantage, but will not live over-happy

;

she will keep company with a gentleman for a length of time who will

be near or above the medium height, well built, rather light complexion,
oval face, high forehead, hair receding from the temples, rather promi-
nent nose and full expressive eyes great danger of disgrace or unhappi-

;

ness caused by that gentleman, and it is impossible for her to marrv him.
Her husband will be above the medium height, rather slenderly built,

will never become stout, thin face, high forehead, sharp nose, quick,

penetrating eyes, dark complexion, with dark brown or black hair,

will have a particularly straight or proud walk, be fond of dress and deco-



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 39

ration, but likely to soon become jealous and cause her much unhappiness

on that account, yet it is not probable they will separate, but he will not
be long lived.

She marries a second time and is much more fortunate. Her sec-

ond husband will be near the medium height, slightly full built, rather

pale complexion, roundish face and forehead, soft brown hair, rather

sharp nose and soft expressive eyes, very gentle in his manners, and
agreeable, fond of music and the fine arts. She will only have a small

family of children, not more than three or four, chiefly boys, and they

will often have poor health and not be much good to her.

She has already had several evil aspects to pass by, which caused
her health to suffer; one of those times was when she was a little over
one year old, likely to have had a fever. Another at two years of age,

but that was more likely to have been an accident or another fever, or

some derangement of the stomach and intestines. Evil again at four,

seven and eight. Had an evil time in November and December, '92,

and during February, March, May, June, July, August and September,
'93—very likely sickness for herself or unhappiness in her family.

Another marked evil time commenced in January, '95, and continued
to April. Unfortunate again in October and November, '95. Then
more fortunate to January 1st, '98, then marked evil to July 1st, '98;
likely to have severe sicknesses or meet with some accident. Evil again
in October, November and December, ' 98 ; a particularly evil time
from February 1st to the end of December, '99 ; then fortunate to June
1st, 1900; then evil to September 1st, 1900. The year 1903 will be
evil, but more fortunate then until she is 21. She will be keeping
company and may possibly marry, but doubtful at 21, but more likely

to have the unhappiness connected with the light complexioned, full

built gentleman at that time and not marry until she is near or a little

over 23.

Further on I will insert the map of the heavens at the time of
birth of Mrs. Maud S.'s daughter and give the rules and principles that
govern in calculating this and other nativities ; then the reader will be
able to see what the principles of Astrology are and judge " how
plain the mournful incompleteness of modern civilization" is and which
" betrays so clearly the persistent survival here and to-day of the debas-
ing superstition, and how terribly manifest the immeasurable, harmful
influence, to which not a few children are subjected by well-meaning
parents in the metropolis of an enlightened nation."

When the reader comes to study the science of Astrology, which I

hope to make very plain and easy to learn in this volume, he will be
equally astonished at the ignorance and debasing superstition of the edi-
tors of the New York Times. If these editors are so ignorant and
superstitious, what must be the condition of their readers ? It must be
deplorable in the extreme. " The stream never rises higher than its

source." If these newspaper editors went no further than calling the
Astrologer and his science improper names and only wrote about the
debasing superstition of the science of Astrology, I might let the matter



"

4° ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

pass, but every Astrologer knows by dear bought experience the amount
of persecution he has had to go through on account of the ignorance
and superstition of newspaper editors, but more especially the ignorance
and superstition of editors of religious periodicals and ministers of the
Gospel. The Astrologer in nearly all Western countries is not only con-
signed to everlasting torment in another world, but he has to go
through all kinds of persecution and imprisonment in this world, and
nearly all those countries have laws enacted for the special purpose of
suppressing Astrology. I will here give a few facts as illustrations of the
above statement. When my father died, about the year 1847, I was
then a little over 18 years old. The minister of the church we attended,
as soon as he learned of the death of my father, came to the house to
talk to my oldest brother; -he spent a whole afternoon tryirrg-40

convince my brother of the wickedness of the practice of Astrology,
and even stated that my father's soul was burning in hell lire at that
moment for the wicked act of having practiced that science, and that my
brother would have to suffer the same torments if he did not reform and
be converted.* A few years after the death of my father my sister

being in poor health, went as a patient to Leeds Infirmary. [The insti-

tution referred to in the note below.] While there she became acquainted
with a young girl who had formerly lived as a servant with William
Seed, an old friend of my fathers, and who had published an astrologi-

cal almanac for many years in Leeds, England, f When the servant
knew that my sister was acquainted with Mr. Seed, and that he had
often visited our house, they became very good friends.

One of the ladies who visited the infirmary to pray with and con-
vert the patients, in some way found out that the servant had lived at

the house of William Seed, and the lady spoke to the girl in this man-
ner "

: How was it that you lived with such a wicked man as that ?

The girl made answer by saying "
: Mr. Seed was a very good man,

and he read his Bible and said his prayers every night and morn-
ing." The lady made answer by saying: "If he did pray, he prayed
to the devil." I might give a number of other illustrations similar to

the above of the ignorance, prejudice and superstition of religious com-
munities and of newspaper editors, but will only mention a few instances

of my own persecutions.

In 1866 I rented an entire floor for a lecture hall and resi-

dence at 814 Broadway, opposite nth Street, New York; there

I gave lectures four or five times a week on Astrology, Phre-
nology, etc., and on Sunday afternoons and evenings I lec-

* I ought to state here that my father did not practice Astrology publicly, but simply did it

for his friends and acquaintances, and solely for their benefit and without pay. In his early
years he had studied Astrology and medicine with his father, and was of much assistance to his
neighbors and friends in giving them advice in case of sickness and trouble. He was for several
years an assistant house physician in Leeds Infirmary with his eldest brother, but later left that
institution. His elder brother practiced medicine afterwards and continued in that profession all

his life and was remarkably successful, while my father went into the manufacturing business of
linen and woolen cloth, he having a dye house and dyed his own goods.

t My eldest brother also published an astrological almanac similar to that of Mr. William
Seed, and of Raphael's of London, also for many years he published a monthly periodical called
Broughtori's Monthly Horoscope, besides other publications.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY 41

turecT on Natural Theology and other sciences, and also on
moral or religious subjects. While giving these lectures I met with all

kinds of persecution which the enemies of Astrology could possibly

invent ; not only were the people who came to the meetings insulted in

the passage way, but all other kinds of annoyances that could possibly

interfere with the meetings were practiced. They even turned off

the water, so that we had to get a supply from the neighbors.
While I was lecturing, rowdies who were hired for that purpose,
would go into the room above and raise heavy benches as high as

they could and let them drop on the floor right over our heads, so as to

confuse me in my lecture, and every other kind of disturbance they
could think of or invent was practiced. This was continued for nearly
two years. Finally, on account of my wife's delicate health, she being
near confinement, I was compelled to move out of the building to save
her life; the child died within three days after her confinement in simi-

lar spasms that she suffered from while the noise and disturbance was
going on. My wife often became unconscious and flighty on
account of the noise over our heads. One night it was all I could do
to prevent her from tearing the hair out of her head and committing
other violence. She never fully, recovered from the suffering and dis-

tress which she endured in that building, and was never herself again
afterwards. On the night above referred to, the police came from the
street on account of hearing such noise and disturbance and asked me
what was all that noise about. I told them I did not know, so they
went up to the room and arrested the whole party on their own responsi-

bility and took them to the Police Court. My wife being very ill, it

was impossible for me to leave her, therefore I requested Mr. W. H.
Chaney, who was at that time assisting me in my lectures, to go and make
complaint of the misconduct of the rowdies in the room above.
The rowdies were discharged the next morning, and a day or two
afterwards Mr. Chaney was arrested for false imprisonment* and he lay

* It was James McDermott, a son-in-law of the landlord, Alexander Eagleson, mentioned
above, wlio got the order of arrest for Mr. Chaney, and James McDermott accompanied
the officers and Mr. Chaney to Ludlow Street jail, tantalizing him all the way. While
Mr. Chaney was in jail he was tried by a judge and jury who awarded James Mc-
Dermott $100 damages. Mr. Chaney 01 his lawyer knew nothing about the trial or judgment
until long afterwards. When Mr. Chaney was discharged from jail he made application to the
Court to have the case reopened. After his lawyer had made the plea for a new
trial, he stated that Mr. Chaney also wished to say a few words. The judge said he
"hoped lie would make them very short, as he knew all about the case.'' Mr Chaney put
this question to the judge, ''Did you know when you impanelled the jury and had the witnesses
sworn in this case that the complainant had me locked up in jail and I knew nothing about the
trial?" The judge made answer by saying that he did not know. It is evident that the judge
told a deliberate falsehood on the bench, as he just stated before that "lie knew all about the
case." There is no doubt that a vast number of other trials conducted as that of Mr. Chaney's has
occurred in New York and other cities. Mr. Chaney could never get a new trial and a judgment of
$100 stands against him to-day.

Previous to the disturbances above related, Mr. Chaney made the remark to me that while he
was district attorney in Bangor, Maine, also in Iowa, and when he owned and edited daily
papers, frhat he often had prayed to be sent to prison and yet be innocent. This was a case
in which a prayer was answered. Mr. Chaney went to make the complaint at my request, and
did so solely to oblige me.

I never could find out whether that was a trap set by the police, they going into the room
and arresting the rowdies on their own responsibility, then afterwards getting us to make charges
against them, so that those rowdies could have us arrested for false imprisonment. The
attention of the police was attracted by the large crowd in the street, which the noise on the
floor above us had been the means of collecting. See appendix page 453.



42 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

in Ludlow Street jail over six months. I was also arrested for publish-
ing an account of the outrage, which the lawyers construed into a

libel and sued me for $10,000 damages. After a great deal of worry
and anxiety, and one delay after another, the trial at last came off after

several years, and the landlord who sued me and whose name was Alex-
ander Eagleson, got six cents damages. I might here state that all the
parties who attended the meetings were very well pleased and satisfied

with the lectures, and they could not understand why the persecution
was continued against me, but it was the religious commurrky. chiefly

the Catholics, who no doubt believed that if it became known tha^the
events of life were governed by fixed laws, it would in some waj
interfere with their answers to prayer and divine providence and their

religious services. On account of the misrepresentations of the New
York Herald's reporter, one Sunday night, the Sergeant of the Police
Station in Mercer Street came with a large number of police officers in

citizens' clothes, to arrest all parties who attended the meeting, along
with the lecturer, and take them to the Mercer Street Station.

That night Mr. Charles Stewart, of Newark, New Jersey, was
lecturing on Natural Theology, chiefly in its relations to the heav-
enly bodies and the goodness of God. After the meeting the Sergeant
told me the reason they came was that they were sent by the

authorities of the city to arrest all parties in the hall, but as the lecture

was such a good one, and its moral influence was also so good, they had
their journey for nothing, and that he would do all he could to influ-

ence the authorities to prevent us from being disturbed in the future.

He stated that he wished there were hundreds of lectures of that kind in

the city every Sunday night ; it would be a good thing for the people.

Detectives were employed for years to follow me ; they even
followed me into the houses when I visited my patients under the pre-

tense of asking the lady of the house questions, but with all their skill,

ingenuity and perseverance they were never able to get any charges

against me. Some years afterwards I loaned some furniture to a person
on Long Island ; that furniture was seized for debt incurred by the

party to whom it was loaned. When I went to obtain it the

sheriff" told me I could not have the furniture unless I replevined it, and
that it would cost me as much as it was worth. But after looking at me a

short time he said, " I know you ; did you not once live at 8 14 Broadway,
New York ?" I told him I did. He then went with me to the man who
had seized the furniture and said, " I know this man ; he is all right."

They gave up the goods without another word, and even carted the
furniture to the railroad station. This sheriff told me he had been
employed for a long time to follow my steps when he was a detective in

New York, and he said he knew me well and had been in my house
numbers of times.

Not only was I persecuted as above related, but my mail was inter-

cepted and opened by those detectives to try and get evidence against

me, and the money in letters sent to me was extracted and the letters

destroyed, and when it was only a few dollars they quietly put the



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 43

money into their pockets and thus destroyed my business and my repu-
tation.

A gentleman whom I became acquainted with while I was living in

Philadelphia, an old patient of mine, who resided in New Jersey, and had
read mv publications a number of years, sent me a letter containing a

$50 bill to pay for some goods I had purchased for him and sent

him. The letter was opened and destroyed and the money taken out

and returned to the writer with the following letter, written in back-
hand, so as to disguise the handwriting:

" New York, March 31, 1866.
" Sir :—There is an old saying that a fool and his money are soon

parted.
" Fortunately the $50 sent by you to Dr. Broughton fell into the hands

of an honest man, who now returns it to you with the advice that you
will keep your money and not send it to any Quack of an Astrologist, who
can no more nor as well tell you what will happen to you, as you can guess
at it yourself. If you don't need the money give it to some one that does,
and not to any 'Star Gazer' or * Planet Reader'" who makes his money by
gulling ignorant people out of their hard earnings. No humbug of a for-

tune teller can do yon five cents' worth of good, nor tell you anything
except what he may guess or invent. Your letter was sent to me by mis-
take or your &50 would have been thrown to the dogs. See if you can't put
the money to a better use. A Friend."

The writer of the above letter said the $50 was sent to him by mis-
take. That person told a deliberate falsehood ; it was sent to my
address, and had it not been intercepted like other letters it would have
reached me, as it was directed plainly to Dr. L. D. Broughton, 814
Broadway, New York City, and at that time there was not another Dr.
L. D. Broughton in New York, or for that matter, in the whole
United States. The man who had sent me the money re-inclosed the

$50 in another envelope, and also the letter of the man who had inter-

cepted my mail, but who was " too honest a Friend " to put his

name and address to the letter, so as to let my correspondent know who
that " Friend " was, so that he might write to him and thank him
for his kindness and the interest he had taken in his welfare.

If the letter had only contained two or' three dollars this " Friend"
would have put the money in his pocket and not said a word about it,

the same as he had done with scores of other letters, but he thought there

might possibly be some inquiry about the $50 and he might get into

trouble if he was found out, or the $50 bill was traced to the thief.

Besides the "Friend" evidently knew all about me and my business and
knew exactly where I lived, and could have forwarded the letter to me
if so disposed. But no doubt this friend had authority from the New
York Post Office and the police authorities in the city to intercept all

my mail so as to get evidence to convict me of some crime and thus
send me to prison if it was possible.

For many years, both before and after 1866, I received letters from
parties scolding me and using all kinds of rough language, stating

that they had sent money to me ; but as 1 had not received their



44 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

former letters or the money, of course I could not write their horoscopes
or answer their questions or send them instructions. I always wrote to

the parties to that effect. My letters being stolen in the post office was
a great damage and loss to me in my business.

Even as late as May, 1895, when I was writing horoscopes for the
Louisville Courier-Journal to be published free ii^that paper, for

any person who would send time and place of birth to^the editor,

the Courier-Journal had to discontinue publishing horoscopes.\ The
managing editor, Chas. B. Pierce, wrote to me May 16, 1895, ti

following :

"The postal authorities gave us very decided notice that if we accepted
any remuneration for the service, either by way of furnishing private horo-
scopes or advancing their publication, they would stop the transit of our
paper in the mail. We did not care to make an issue of the question with
the postal authorities, so discontinued publishing the horoscopes."

In the United States we are said to live in a free country, where we
have free speech, free discussion and liberty of the press, and yet news-
papers like the Louisville Courier-Journal are not allowed to publish
horoscopes free to their readers without having their paper stopped from
going through the mail. Is it not time that the subject of Astrology
was investigated by the light of reason and science, and the people per-

mitted to find out whether the science is true or false ? For years when-
ever I went to the post office to lay a complaint of my mail being
intercepted and the money taken out, I got nothing but insults from the

postmasters or those I spoke to, and I was told that no such letter had
ever been sent to me. In Philadelphia, before I moved to New York,
mv letters were rifled, the money taken out, and when I went to the

post office and stated the facts, I got nothing but rebuffs. Shortly
after I moved to New York the letter carrier in that district was
arrested for opening other parties' letters and taking money from them;
as he had acquired the habit of opening my mail and taking the money
out, he continued the habit and opened other persons' mails. He was
arrested, prosecuted and sent to prison for ten years.

Possibly there is not a country in the world where Astrologers

have been more persecuted than they have been in England, especially

within the last hundred years. If a person went to consult an Astrolo-

ger and paid him a sixpence or a shilling, which was marked so that he
could swear to it, he could have the Astrologer's house broken into and
searched, and have him arrested with no other evidence than the

marked sixpence or shilling found on the Astrologer, just the same as if

the Astrologer had stolen the shilling from the party. In short, they
hunted Astrologers down as we read in history they formerly hunted
witches and wizards. There were detectives and police especially

employed to prosecute them. A gentleman, an Astrologer, whom my
eldest brother knew well, and who resided in Manchester, England, was
arrested and sent to prison on no evidence than the fact that there were
several respectable ladies who were waiting for their turn to see him in

his parlor. But of late years the tide is turning and it looks as if



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 4$

Astrology is going to be as respectable, if not more so, than any other
profession, and similar to what it was in ancient times, as we read in

history and the Bible, especially in Daniel.
I copy the following from the Arena of January, 1893, published

by B. O. Flower, Boston, Mass., and it tells the story about the change
going on in London, England. I will here state that the Arena is the

most liberal and fair-minded periodical that I know of in the United
States, and I would advise all my readers to subscribe for it, and they
will find it to their advantage by so doing :

ASTROLOGY IN LONDON.
By Edgar Lee.

" As a proof that in Enlgand there is some disposition being shown to
deal in a more broad-minded way with those who practice Astrology, I will
instance the following: At the beginning of the past year the somewhat
popular and largely circulated organ, Society, began to devote a certain por-
tion of its space every week to Astrology. Articles appeared not always by
the same hand, but under the same nom de guerre of 'Jupiter,' and in a
short time the paper was simply overwhelmed with correspondence from
every part of the three kingdoms. A contemporary of undeniable clever-
ness, which has, like most of the so-called 'smart ' journals of the epoch of
no very ancient pedigree, attacked Society, and particularly 'Jupiter/ and
called seriously upon the public prosecutor to enforce the law upon this per-
son ,• and when that functionary was perverse enough to be imperturable to
the somewhat ferociously worded advice, it followed up the attack by fierce

personalities, more suggestive of editorial amenties in California twenty years
ago than Fleet Street and the Strand in 1892. Well, the criminal
authority at Queen Victoria's treasury remained passive, and the reason
is not far to seek. Public opinion on the subject of Astrology in
England has undergone a startling change ; and a prosecution by the
State at the present juncture, and more especially immediately before the
elections, would have been a trifle too daring for the most reckless govern-
ment to indulge in. The professors of Astrology in England are legion
and they include an immense number of charlatans ; indeed, it may be
broadly stated that the charlatans outnumber the genuine Astrologers in the
proportion of three to one; hence it is so desirable that some authoritative
organ which could write on astrologic topics without fear of making itself

amenable to the law should be established, if only for the purpose of acting
as a finger-post to those who are seeking the truths of astral lore.

"Among the genuine Astrologers one must again distinguish between
those who may be termed intuitive and those who base their predictions on
absolute mathematics. The latter are the more numerous section and to
the reasonable mind the more reliable ; the former, on the other hand,
probably possess a larger following, since their deductions are far more
rapid and alwavs more startling than their slower brethren.

" Among the intuitive Astrologers I rank in the first flight the seer of the
Charing Cross Road, whose predictions for the past forty years approach the
marvellous.* This man practically of independent means, is the scion of an
illustrious name in the annals of London's civic history, and is the son and
grandson of two men who both practiced as Astrologers back into the last

century, and were accounted as the leaders of the cult. This old gentle-
man has been consulted by peer and peasant; the late Prince Consort bore

* Henry J. Dukes, who has since died.



46 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

witness to his skill ; the first Lord Lytton, Charles Dickens, George Eliot,
and the late Lord Beaconsfield, when Mr. Disraeli, frequently interviewed
him, and to this day his house is visited by many of our leading ladies and
gentlemen in society, while more than one of our commercial magnates and
stock exchange speculators seek his advice on personal matters.

" Then again, in the Caledonian Road, close to King's Cross, is to be
1

found another 'intuitional. * One of our chief lady novelists, whose works
are well-known to the American public—I refer to Florence Marryat—can
bear witness to the astonishing power of prognostication possessed by this

hoary wizard whose fame extends far beyond the metropolis of England.
" In the month of June, 1887, another famous Astrologer within sound

of Bow Bells was consulted by a journalist on a subject of considerable
import to himself. Queen Victoria's jubilee ceremony was to take place
the following day, and the journalist had received instructions from his edi-
tor to be present in Westminster Abbey to describe the event at length. In
view of the enormous number of tickets issued by the Lord Chamberlain to
view the splendid spectacle, hundreds of workmen had been employed for
several days in rigging up seats in the interior of the sacred edifice, and the
vast quantity of timber employed suggested to the anarchists a ready means
of bringing about a perfect holocaust of victims. The threats of these gen-
try to destroy at one fell blow the heirs apparent of several European dynas-
ties were overheard in a low Soho cabaret by the detectives who are ever
lurking about that notorious quarter. The whole conspiracy soon got wind
and found its way into the newspapers, with the result that certain feeble
folks who had obtained tickets became alarmed, and the press loudly
demanded extra police precautions, so that a horrible catastrophe might be
averted. The particular journalist of whom I speak was among the alarmed
ones, and his wife, a believer in Astrology, insisted on his consulting with
the ' intuitional ' of her choice. The oracle replied (the minute of interro-
gation was his guide) : 'There is not the slightest fear of anything happen-
ing to-morrow. Jupiter, who rules Her Majesty, is in his full dignity, and
nothing sinister could possibly occur. There is, however, likely to be an
accident to some one, who, though not royal, is in some way connected
with the royal house, and it would appear as though it were a horse acci-

1

dent. It will be remembered by many that on the morning of the cere-
mony the Marquis of Lome, while in the park en route to join the proces-
sion, was thrown from his charger and sufficiently injured to prevent his

taking part in the proceedings.
" That same night while the journalist was making this inquiry, two

other querents applied to the Astrologer, both asking a question as to the
safety of the Abbey on the morrow. The reply given by the Astrologer was
naturally a repetition of his previous answer, whereupon the younger of the
two visitors, who spoke English imperfectly, asked for a forecast of his own
career. After ascertaining minutely the hour of birth and the latitude and
longitude of the birthplace, the Astrologer inquired if he were by profession
a soldier, and the reply was that he held rank in a foreign army. 'Your end

1
will be sudden and by lead, said the Astrologer, 'and, so far as I can see,

1
the end is so near that it is not worth while casting the nativity. The

* Thos. Wilson, a watchmaker of London, was called upon by Princess Victoria, accom-
panied by her guardian—her aunt—and requested him to erect and read her horoscope, which he
did to her satisfaction Mr. Wilson came to New York some years ago and did business at 28th
Street and Third Avenue, but returned to London the latter part of 1866, and died only a few
years ago. Some six or seven years ago Mr. Wilson was arrested in London for practicing
Astrology. He told the judge that he had been in practice over fifty years and this was the first

time he was ever molested. The judge said that " if you are ever Drought before me again I shall

have to hold you "
; then discharged him. Mr. Wilson was at that time nearly eighty years

of age.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 47

young man laughed at the time, but it afterwards transpired that he was the
Archduke Rudolf of Austria, whose melancholy and tragic demise will be
still fresh in the memory of the reader.

" I could record many other instances of the abnormal development of
the intuitive faculty in the astrologic seers, but I will now come to an exam-
ple of what purely mathematical Astrology can accomplish. An Astrolo-
ger, long resident in London, and who was alive until very recently,
belonged to that section which regards prediction by astral calculation as
an exact science. He received a mysterious visit from a stranger in

September of 1869, who asked him whether, in view of the complications
then arising in Central Europe, he could fix on a date when Prussia might
advantageously quarrel with France. At this timethe Luxemberg Sucession
had assumed a perilous aspect, while the aspirations of the Hohenzollern
family to the Spanish crown had already been the subject of serious diplo-

1
matic uneasiness to more than one foreign minister. ' I must first, said the
Astrologer, be placed in possession of the actual birth moments of King Wil-
liam of Prussia, Count Bismarck, Count von Moltke, the Emperor of the
French and his consort and Marshal Leboeuf. It would be as well, too,
that I should have the dates of the coronation of the first King of Prussia,
of the Hohenzollern dynasty, and the coronation day of Napoleon I.'

" ' And supposing,' returned the stranger, 'that these are supplied you,
how long will it be before you arrive at a decision ?'

"'It may 1
possibly take me a week or more, rejoined the other, and the

inquirer on this left him abruptly. In due course the necessary particulars
were supplied, and after an immense amount of labor the Astrologer
reported that the best moment for the Prussian King to flount France would
be some hour in the afternoon, as nearly as possible midway between the
9th and 14th of July, 1870. The stranger paid nothing for this advice at
the time, but preserving his incognito, disappeared from the Astrologer's
ken. Who does not know the exact date when France heard with indigna-
tion that William had turned on his heel in Unter den Linden when
approached by M. Benedetti, the emissary of the Tuilleries ? Is not the
nth and 12th of July graven on every Germany memory? While as for the
result of the alleged snub, do not millions of Frenchmen remember to their

cost the result of this strangely astral calculation ? In the February of 1871,
when the iron-girt city of Paris was in its last throes, the Astrologer
receive a letter passed through the German military lines containing Berlin
billets de banque to the amount of two hundred pounds sterling, with the
simple words on a plain sheet of paper, ' With thanks of Germany. 1

"From 1879 to J 888 palmistry was the dominant occult attraction of
the majority of our West End ' At Homes. 1 No hostess could be deemed
to have filled up her evenings satisfactorily unless a cheiromant of the first

quality formed part of the entertainment. Heron Allen's books on the
fascinating study had obtained a somewhat wide circulation, and the ama-
teur cheirosophist was everywhere en evidence. Sometimes these interest-

ing reunions would be diversified by the appearance of a physiognomist who
after a short lecture on the wonderful index to character which the features
provide would entertain the assemblage by practical illustrative experiments
on the subjects present, many of which, as may be imagined, were very
amusing. Sometimes—but these occasions were rare—a calligraphist
would appear on the scene—Madame Volski, for example, whose remarka-
ble delineations of character from handwriting have excited the wonderment
of more than one European crowned head. Lesser lights than Madame
Volski would often try their more 'prentice hands in the same direction, but
of late years this class of entertainment has fallen into desuetude, and a



48 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

demandfor a science nvhich shall have more of the elements of exactitude
has become general. During the present London seasdn I, myself, person-
ally know one Astrologer numbering his votaries by the\ thousand, who has
been invited to at least twenty social gatherings of the Upper ten, and who
has been offered large fees for his attendance. I nee\d scarcely say the
absurd act of Parliament, which prevents his taking money in the exercise
of his astrologic vocation, has hindered his acceptance of these calls on his
time, and as a consequence lias resulted in a loss to him of considerable
emolument.

" Now as to works on Astrology, which are becoming rarer every year,
it may astonish the reade'r to learn that there are at least one hundred and
fifty authors of all sorts and conditions who have penned volumes during the
last two centuries to be found in many a collection owned by the richer
class of Englishmen. The prices now of most of these books are prohibi-
tive, but there are certain well-established Astrologers to whom stocks of
such cooks have been handed down by their forefathers, and who do a
thriving trade by their sale. It may be noted as a singular fact—and I

think that the celebrated society of ' Odd Volumes,' as well as one of their
principal members, M. Quaritich, the biggest book buyer in the world, will

bear witness to the truth of my assertion—that at nearly all great book auc-
tions, works on Astrology are conspicuous by their absence. The reason
for this is that your astrologic enthusiast scarcely ever permits them to come
into the market if he knows of their existence, and even as the whereabouts
of the valuable picture or etching is known to the dealers, and is generally
snapped up before coming under the hammer, so also is the whereabouts of
most esoteric books, especially those appertaining to the movements of the
planets in their relation to man. In connection with Astrology another
point has lately cropped up; it is true that it is only a side issue, but it is so
interesting to the world at large that I cannot close this paper without men-
tioning it. There are first sight repulsions between certain people for
which there is no accounting by any fixed rule. A enters a ball-room or
the coffee-room of a hotel for the first time and sees B. Neither had ever
seen the other before ; neither knows anything of one another. They are
both well-dressed, respectable-looking people, so that no repugnance can
possibly spring up on either side on the score of appearnce yet in both

;

their minds has lodged a dislike for each other, which can sometimes
never can be wholly eradicated.

"The new Saturnian theory on this subject is a little abstruse, but it is

equally remarkable. These people are positives and negatives, brought
about through their being born under different conditions of Saturn's light,

i. e., the positives will be born when the light is shining on the earth direct
from the nucleus, the negatives when the light is shining through or being
intercepted by the ring. Astronomers will raise their hands in pious horror
at such superstitious teachings, but let the Astronomer shut himself up in
his observatory and be for the nonce forgotten, while the reader tests the
matter for himself. Imagine the dial plate of a clock and let the figures
from one to twelve be taken to represent January to December. It is a
cycle without beginning or end, i. e., November and January are not nine
months away from one another, but only one month intervenes. This is

the threshold of the theory. A is born in January, B in June; A and B
will have a repugnance for one another, or if not an actual repugnance each
will intentionally or unwittingly always injure the other. So will other
months, February and July, October and April, July and December. To
quote briefly from this singular and novel hypotheses after its creator had
exhausted his scientific reasons for the light of Saturn, exercising so direct



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 49

an evil effect on mankind, goes on to say "
: Men have talked on the

theory of repulsion by electro-biology, magnetism, and tried to account for

it in that way. It is something in the air, say others, but there is nothing
satisfactory in these suggestions, and the fact that some people are without
apparent reason distinctly repellent to other people exists and remains. The
reason is purely and wholly Saturnian ; and although the demonstration
until now is not very perfect, as it has only been discovered quite recently,

it is sufficiently perfect to suggest patient inquiry to render it more so. You
will always or nearly always find when this feeling of repulsion comes over
you that the birthday of the object of your dislike is four, five or six months
away from your own, and the farther away it is the more certain and intense
the dislike. The year matters little unless it be seven, fourteen and a half,

twenty-two or twenty-nine years from yours, these being the dates of Saturn's
squares. Two individuals born in the same month, if they come together in

business, get along swimmingly. In the case of husband and wife they are
indeed too fond, and such a match frequently produces jealousy, but let the
husband be born in May and the wife in November, and the result will be
disastrous. Let any one who reads this and disbelieves it cast his or her
memory back and try to remember the person who brought them the most
harm, either with intention or by accident. They will be surprised at the
corroborative evidence such inquiry will produce. Naturally there are
exceptions, but these exceptions prove the rule, etc.

"Later on the same writer quoted the divorce court in support of his

theory and gives numerous instances from history of positives and negatives,
who had destroyed one another, cites curious facts connected with the
regard borne by the Queen for her various relations, and altogether fur-
nishes a very pretty array of facts. The theory, however, requires a con-
vention of Astrologers to sit on and analyze it before it can hope to be
accepted, and meanwhile Ptolemy, pure and simple, with the addenda of
Uranus and Neptune, to correct some of his unavoidable errors, with the
sometimes vexed question of the influence of the asteroids—these will remain
faith and gospel of the English student of Astrology for the present."

If all writers who had written either for or against Astrology had
been as liberal minded as Mr. Edgar Lee, I should not have had to

write and publish this book, and Astrology would have been recognized
throughout the Christian nations as one of the established sciences, but
through some fatality which is difficult to understand the people in all

Christian countries have followed the injunctions of the Bible to the let-

ter where it says, " TJiou shalt not suffer a witch to live" and in their

ignorance the people have included Astrologers in the class of witches
and wizards, and they have been condemned unheard and convicted
without trial and even without evidence. It is generally supposed, and
it is even a theory in law, that a person is innocent until he is convicted
but Astrologers do not come under that class. Even in the case of Mrs.
Fleming, of New York City, who was indicted by the Grand Jury for the
murder of her mother, a judge of the Supreme Court decided that she was
an innocent woman until convicted, and that she had a perfect right to

inherit a certain amount of property which was to come to her by will,

through the death of her mother, and for the murder of whom she was
just going to be tried. Should it ever come to be known throughout
the whole civilized world that Astrology is as much a science and no
more wicked than the practice of the science of arithmetic, the peoDle



50 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

will then begin to open their eyes and wonder whether the whole com-
munity in Christian countries are not practically insane, and the man
that was confined in a lunatic asylum was more than half right in his

answer when asked how it was that such a sensible man was confined in

such an institution. When people come to think of the millions of dol-
lars that have been wasted by the judiciary in hunting down and
bringing to trial and convicting innocent people called Astrologers,
also the money that has been spent in confining those innocent people
in prisons, and often in hanging them and burning them alive-— if all

that money, time and effort had been spent in advancing civilization

and human happiness, how much better it would have been for the
whole people of those countries ? And when it comes to be found out
that Astrology is the most useful of sciences, and of more real practical

benefit to humanity at large than any other science that was ever
known, they will be ready to exclaim in the words of Shakespeare,
" What fools these mortals be."

It may be asked by the reader, if I am a qualified person
to write on the subject of Astrology, and understand that science

sufficiently myself to be able to teach it to others. I will let

the following correspondence speak for itself. I make ir public with-
out any scruples of conscience, as there was nothing in these letters

understood to be private when written, and which passed through the
mail to the different parties whose names are mentioned below. The
first letter that I shall call the reader's attention to is one from Mr. O.
D. Bragdon, Boston, Mass., which reads as follows:

Boston, Mass., March 9th, 1894.
Dr. L. D. Broughton,

Dear Sir: —Some days since I received a copy of " Planetary Influ-

ence," published by yourself, with nothing to indicate positively from whom
the publication came. I have taken the liberty of inferring that you were the
sender, and take this opportunity of thanking you, and at the same time of
assuring you of my high estimation and appreciation of the sentiments and
opinions you therein set forth. I have for many years been an admirer of
yours, particularly when I have been able to catch a glimpse of your " fine

Italian hand " in some press contribution, or in perusing some of the older pro-
ductions of yours of the war times. I trust that at sometime I may have
the pleasure of meeting and thanking you personally.

I am just in receipt of a letter (copy of which I inclose you) from a Mr.
A. N. Doerschuk, of Kansas City, Mo., dated February 2, which purports
to have been addressed by Mr. T. E. Wilson, librarian to the New York
World, making a peculiar kind of request, and I have taken the liberty of
advising him that I have referred his letter to you, as being more properly
one of the best, if not the foremost man in the science in America. I do this

because I believe your wide experience and evident long researches in our
beloved science have best fitted you to become the American champion in

such questions, provided this inquiry is made in good faith. If it is not,
your acquaintance with the constitution and pulse of the New York World
makes you better able to treat the disease from which it suffers. Whatever
your course in the matter may be, I feel fully assured it must be the best
one that could be adopted, and if there is anything I can do to aid you for



:

ELEMENTS OE ASTROLOGY 5 I

best results to our science, you may command me. My recollection Is that

the New York World has avowed itself the enemy of Astrology, whether its

writers are ignorant of or acquainted with the laws of the science I know
not. Perhaps you are better able to judge of the genuineness or good faith of
the request of Mr. Doerschuk. Certainly February 2d was a peculiar day
from which to date or inaugurate such an investigation If it was really done
in good faith.

I shall be pleased to learn your conclusions as to the matter and stand
ready to assist you in any way I can.

Thanking you again for your courtesy in forwarding the little pamphlet,
I am Very sincerely yours,

O. D. Bragdon.
P. S.—On second thought I inclose original letter of Mr. Doerschuk.

Possibly the handwriting may be of consequence to you. See also copy of
my letter to Mr. D, B.

The following is Mr. A. N. Doerschuk's letter to Mr. O. D. Brag-
don and forwarded to me, and which speaks for itself

Kansas City, Mo., Feb 2, '94.

Dear Sir:—Through the kindness of Mr. T. E. Wilson, librarian to
the New York World, I have the great pleasure of this informal introduc-
tion to you. Mr. Wilson kindly addressed this letter for me, and its sub-
ject can best be stated in a few words. Recently I, with several of my inti-

mate friends, have been deeply interested in Astrology. To satisfy our
friends and ourselves of the actual science in the matter, we have decided if

possible to have three distinct horoscopes cast by one of the foremost men
in the science. Any actual expense connected with this matter will be
gladly refunded by us. Hoping that you will kindly consent to accommo-
date us, and that we shall have the pleasure of an early reply, I remain

Very truly yours,

A. N. Doerschuk.

The next letter is Mr. Bragdon's letter to Mr. Doerschuk, of Kan-
sas City, in reply to his first letter :

Boston, Mass., March 10th, 1894.
Mr. A. N. Doerschuk,

Dear Sir:—Your favor of February 2d, addressed to me by Mr. T. E.
Wilson, has just been received, and its contents considered.

I appreciate the compliment that Mr, Wilson pays me but fear he has
overlooked better talent nearer home, and in the belief that I may be better
furthering your desires to have satisfactory evidence of the genuineness of
the science, I have taken the liberty of forwarding your letter to Dr. L. D.
Broughton, of No. 68 South Washington Square, New York City. This
gentleman has wide experience in the science and his judgment and opin-
ion will perhaps go as far to convince you of the actual science as could
those of any man outside of yourselves. I would suggest that perhaps you
might better convince yourselves of the truth of Astrology by each investi-
gating his own nativity by the light of the rules of Astrology, which are
easily obtained by any one from published works on the subject rather than
to make your belief dependent upon the success or failure of any other
human being in judging the details of your private lives. I judge you
would not find it a very laborious task and think it would be far more satis-

factory to you in the end.



52 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Trusting I have acted for your best interests, and have best served the
honesty of your purpose by referring your note to DrL Broughton,

I remain, yours respectfully,
O. D. Bragdon (Regulus).

The following is the first letter of Mr. A. N. Doerschuk to me, in

reply to a short note to him stating that I had received his letter directed
to Mr. O. D. Bragdon, of Boston, and that I wished further informa-
tion about the horoscopes in question, and whether they were for

individuals, 01 to be published in some newspaper or periodical. 1 also

stated that I had sent him two or three pamphlets, etc.

Kansas City, Mo., March 13, '94.

Dr. L. D. Broughton,
Dear Sir :—Your favor of the 12th inst. inclosing the pamphlets on

" Planetarv Influence" and " Why I am an Astrologer" are at hand, also
a letter from Mr. O. D. Bragdon, of the Regulus, of Boston, Mass., stating
that our letter forwarded to him had been forwarded to you, in hope of
obtaining better satisfaction of our desires.

We beg to thank you for your kindness as above mentioned and hope that
we may have the extreme pleasure of your assistance in furthering to our satis-

faction our knowledge of astrological matters, in which you are so well versed.
We desire to know what consideration must be offered to induce you to

cast for us three separate and distinct horoscopes, giving a full description of
the three persons, their past and present lives and their future possibilities;

also what would be in your judgment the proper vocation of each indi-

vidual ; in short, we desire a complete nativity of each person cast by your
own hands. We are not prompted in this by any morbid curiosity since
we firmly believe in the science of your profession.

Our object has been to gain access to the most thoroughly learned
authority on the subject, since we desire the riper judgment of others on
matters concerning our own nativity. We sincerely hope that it may be
within yonr province to be of service to us in this matter. We hope to

receive an early reply stating what facts will be necessary and convenient in

forwarding our ends. Hoping that we may have the benefit of your ripe

knowledge and awaiting an early reply, we remain Truly yours,
Represented by A. N. Doerschuk.

The following is my reply to Mr. Doerschuk :

New York, March 20, 1894.
Mr. A. N. Doerschuk,

Dear Sir:—Yours of the 13th inst. came to hand on Saturday, but I

have been too busy to answer it until to-day. I also received a letter from
Mr. Bragdon, of Boston, stating that he had received one from you and
that he had referred you to me.

If you had stated in your letter whether you wanted those horoscopes
for publication or for private individuals, I should have understood better

what to do. To make a complete horoscope, such as yon desire, I will

charge $20 each. But possibly you may get sufficient proof of the science
of Astrology to satisfy yourself for five or ten dollars each. I shall require
the name of the place where the party was born, so as to get the longitude
and latitude of the place of birth, and also the exact time of birth, or as near the
exact time as possible. That is, you must give the year, the month, day of
month, hour and minute. If they do not know the minute, they had better

send a short description of themselves, such as color of hair and eyes,



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 53

weight, height, complexion, etc, and if there are any special marks on their
person I should like to know them. But it they are satisfied of the exact
time and place of birth, all the other information is not necessary.

If you want to convince yourself of the truth of Astrology the best plan
is to take lessons in that science, the same as if you wanted to convince
yourselfof the truth of arithmetic.

I have had a great many pupils in my time, so have my brothers, my
father and grandfather; and in all these years there has never been a pupil
of any of our family that has discovered that Astrology was not a true
science. Enclosed you will find a copy of a horoscope of Mr. David H.
Reid, of 8 1 East 125th Street, New York.*

This gentleman sent his time of birth to the New York Sunday Nevus,
a paper that I have been writing for off and on for about 30 years, but I

have contributed about three columns every Sunday for the last year and a
quarter. You will also find inclosed three columns cut out of that paper of
February 4th, 1894. In it you will find the horoscope marked and also find
a copy of his letter. I have had hundreds of similar letters from persons
who have had their horoscopes published in the Sunday News.

During last Summer Mr. Ruthiel, one of the editors of the Baltimore
News sent his time of birth to the New York Sunday News, and in due
course of time his horoscope was published. Afterwards my son, in writing
to Mr. Ruthiel, asked him for his time of birth, and noticing that it was
the same as had been published in the News, my son cut it out and sent it

to him. Mr. Ruthiel, in writing to my son in reference to his own horo-
scope, made the following remarks "

: The reputation of your father being
the best in the country, if not in the world, I find is not misplaced. He
has hit me exactly, the only difference is that I am fair; the time of mar-
riage is exact (38 years); I do not see how he did it, and also the favorable
and unfavorable periods mentioned are correct in every particular."

Possibly Mr. Ruthiel would be a more suitable person than myself to
satisfy you of the truth of Astrology, as he has been in practice as a writer
for over twenty years, has published much on the science, especially in the
Baltimore Daily News, the Pittsburg Dispatch, and the Capitol at Wash-
ington, and he also has a good knowledge of Astrology.

Forty years ago I probably stood alone in this country as the champion
of Astrology. Certainly I was the only one who was publishing anything
advocating that science. I published Broughtons Monthly Planet Reader
and Astrological "Journal for many years, but since then it is astonishing how
many people have given attention to that subject, and I think there must be
scores in the country now that could convince you of the truth of that
science, who have nearly all been taught by my father, my brothers, or my-
self. Probably the fairest test to prove the truth or falsity of the science
would be to let me choose a number of times and places of birth out
of those that I think I could handle best, and would prefer those
that a few minutes out of the exact time would not make much differ-

erence. For instance, the inclosed horoscope will convey the best idea of
what I mean. It is what we term a plain horoscope and one that can be
easily read without making any mistakes. Now had I to choose twenty or
thirty of them, and if the whole came out perfectly correct, the same as an
example in arithmetic, I think that ought to convince any skeptic who was
ever likely to be convinced.

I am writing from six to ten columns each week for the Pittsburg Dis-
patch, similar to what I am writing for the New York Sunday News, and I

* I intended publishing Mr. David H Reid's horoscope, but I find I had not space.



54 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

might as a test pick out eight or ten of those times of birth and let the peo-
ple whose horoscopes have been published report to the editor whether they
are correct or not, their answers to be printed in the following Sunday's
Dispatch. Even that would not be a perfect test, as the persons sending
their time of birth to the Dispatch might not be absolutely certain of their
exact moment of birth. As an illustration I will here state that when I
lectured in 1S66 and 1867 at 814 Broadway, New York, there was a gentle-
man handed in his time of birth and gave it at three o'clock in the after-
noon ; after I was through reading off his horoscope he stated that it was
nearly all wrong. As soon as I saw the man standing up I told him he had
not given me the correct time of birth, but he was absolutely certain that he
had. He attended the lecture the following week and handed in his time
of birth a second time. Remembering the date, I did not cast the map of
the heavens, but made the remark at the close of the lecture that the gen-
tleman whose horoscope was read last Tuesday night, had handed in his
time of birth a second time and it is written three o'clock in the morning
instead of three in the afternoon. I told the gentleman that he was still in
error, that he could not have been born at three o'clock in the morning, but
he might have been born at five o'clock a.m. He stated that he asked his
parents and they had told him that the last statement was the correct
time of birth. However he went home and told them what I said and they
all hunted up the family Bible and it stated that he was born at five a.m., as
I had informed him. He came to consult me on business and other mat-
ters a number of times afterwards. I will give one more instance. A gen-
tleman who was formerly one of the editors of the New York Herald, who
does not wish his name to be made public, since I published " Planetary
Influence," has taken quite an interest in Astrology and has commenced
studying it, and wishing to have the horoscopes of all his friends, he asked
Mr. H., a private secretary of Mr. C. D., and he gave his time of birth as

nine o'clock in the morning 5 after the map of the heavens had been erected
this friend called on Mr. H. and told him he could not have been born at

nine a.m. as his personal appearance would notanswer to a man born under
Leo. Mr. H. stated that it was the time his mother had given him. This
friend then set to work to find out the time of birth from Mr. H.'s per-

sonal appearance and hit on 10:30 A.M. as answering- his description, he then
wrote the horoscope and took it to Mr. H. On his entering the office Mr.
H. stated that he had since seen his father who had told him that he was
born at 10:30 a.m. When Mr. H. read the horoscope he was somewhat
surprised. The gentleman who employed Mr. H. had also taken some
interest in this science and has had l,iis horoscope cast, which has proved
correct and is likely to be published shortly in some New York newspaper.

Astrology would have been much further advanced if it had not been
for the persecution it has met with in all Christian countries. The Astrol-
ogers have been classed as witches and wizards and have been imprisoned
and executed just the same as those imaginary beings ; as the Bible states,
" Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live," and the authorities have tried their

best to fulfill that injunction.
Probably no science can be made as useful as Astrology \{

it is cultivated similar to Astronomy at the present day. If all

boys and girls were taught the trades and professions that they are most
suited for according to their horoscopes, as indicated by the science of

Astrology, the amount of distress and misery that could be avoided would
be astonishing. Often the unhappiness that married people suffer might be
alleviated if not avoided by this science, if their horoscopes were compared
previous to marriage.



"

Elements of astrology. 55

It is published in books on marriage and stated by travellers from India

that nearly one-half the people on the face of the earth at the present

day are governed by this science in regard to choosing a partner for life.

In India and China when a child is born they take the horoscope of that

child and go to varions friends and acquaintances to compare it with the

horoscope of a child of the opposite sex, and keep on comparing until they
meet with one that harmonizes with the horoscope then in hand. Then the

friends or relations make arrangements for the marriage to take place when
the parties become of a suitable age.

There was a Hindoo who gave a lecture on the manners and customs of
the Hindoos a short time ago at the Liberal Club in New York City, and
he made the statement that there was not one marriage in a thousand but
what were successful and happy by following this method of comparing
horoscopes of the opposite sex before becoming engaged or getting mar-
ried. They do not ask the question in those countries, "Is marriage a
failure ?

I have made this letter longer than I had intended, only I thought
from the tenor of your letter that you wished to become interested in

the science of Astrology. Yours respectfully,

L. D. Broughton.

The above letter was the last of the correspondence I had with Mr.
A. N. Doerschuk, of No. 1201 Grand Avenue, Kansas City, Mo. He
never even wrote to let me know that he had received my letter. Why
he and his friends dropped the matter, I am unable to say ; I can only
conjecture. One of the editors of the New York Herald, to whom I read
this letter, told me that it was a trap which they had deliberately

planned, and that they would send the wrong time of birth of.some
person so as to expose Astrology in the New York World and thus

boom the circulation of that paper. I am sorry that newspaper
editors have such a bad opinion of each other, but they know one
another better than I do. I am aware that there is nothing too
low, mean or contemptible for the editors of the New York World
to stoop to in order to increase their circulation. I need only
refer to the sensation that they made in having John De Leon, an
Astrologer, living in East 4th Street, New York, sent to Sing Sing fifteen

years for no other reason than to boom their paper, as the editor, Col.

John Cockerill, afterwards stated over his own signature, and then after-

wards getting Prof. Richard A. Proctor to write the article called " The
Humbug of Astrology," in which he called all Astrologers "silly,

ignorant charlatans, rascals and lying knaves." The ex-editor of the

New York Herald stated that I had made the best move that I could
possibly have made in •referring Mr. A. N. Doerschuk to one of the
editors of the Baltimore News. He said it was a very good bluff and
that it would end the matter, because the New York World would
never attempt to fight one of the editors of the Baltimore News , who
had a newspaper to back him.

I may be mistaken altogether in the above remarks, and it is possi-

ble that Mr. Doerschuk and his friends may have reconsidered the mat-
er in regard to getting proofs of the truth of the science of Astrology,



56 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

and did not care to go through the same kind of persecution that I and
my family and friends have had to go through in advocating that
science, and probably they may have thought that it would lower their

standing in the community if it was found out that they were investi-

gating the science of Astrology.

I will here state and try to prove in the latter part of this book that

Richard A. Proctor deliberately told a falsehood in that article called

the " Humbug of Astrology." I shall also republish verbatim Mr.
Proctor's article from the New York World in the latter part of this

volume, with my comments on the same, which the New York World
refused to publish. Probably no other man stooped so low as to vilify,

for a few dollars, persons who were utter strangers to himself as Richard
A. Proctor did in that article.

I do not know whether the reader observed in Mr. O. D. Bragdon's
letter, when speaking of myself, that he never even mentioned that I

was silly, ignorant, a rascal, charlatan or lying knave. Possibly he does
not know me as well as the New York World knows me.

I will here state that there is no learning, science, profession, trade,

or secret order that forms a fellowship so binding and lasting as the

knowledge of Astrology. Go where he will, if he meets any persons
who have a knowledge of that subject he is always welcome and receives

the greatest attention ; at least that has always been so in my experi-
ence and with those persons whom I have known. It is only those per-
sons (and chiefly the religious communities) who have no knowledge of
Astrology who are the Astrologers' bitterest enemies. One more point
which the reader should bear in mind, and that is once an Astrologer
always an Astrologer. I have never known, and I don't believe that

any other person has ever known a man or woman who having
studied Astrology has afterwards discarded it ; they may on account
of the ignorance and prejudice of others around them not let it

be known that they know anything about that science. In all other
professions there are some back sliders, and who afterwards become
skeptics or unbelievers.

In the foregoing pages I have endeavored to give some very strong
proofs of the influence of the planets, the Sun and Moon on the earth

and its inhabitants. The planetary influences can be recognized and
calculated by their revolutions, their perihelion and aphelion and in

their aspects or relations to each other.

Lord Bacon in his Organum, if I remember right, states that when
any effect always follows any particular cause, • and if that cause is

increased the effect is also increased, and when the cause is decreased
the effect is also reduced in proportion, and when the cause is entirely

removed the effect also entirely ceases, then he says: "You may always
attribute that particular effect as being produced by that particular

cause."

I have quoted a sufficient number of instances from both profane

and sacred history, and also an equal number o> agronomical calcuJ*-



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 57

tions of the positions of the planets, their various aspects to each other,

when transiting any particular sign of the Zodiac to warrant a further

investigation of this subject by any intelligent reader. Also I have
every reason to believe that similar calculations and observation*; have
been made by Astrologers in nearly all civilized countries, and those cal-

culations reach back to a very remote period, it we can believe his-

tory and inscriptions on ancient buildings and the deductions of learned

men.

The Bible contains much Astrology, if properly interpreted, especi-

ally in what is termed the Old Testament.

Job, which is one of the oldest books now in existence, in Chapter
38, verses 31, 33 says "

: Canst thou bind the sweet influences of the

Pleiades or loose the bands of Orion ? Knowest thou the ordinances
of Heaven ? Canst thou set the dominion thereof in the earth." Isaiah,

4.7th Chap., 13th verse says "
: Let now the Astrologers, the star-gazers,

the monthly prognosticators stand up." And we also read in Daniel,

5 th Chap. , 1 1 th verse, " That Daniel was made by the decree of Nebuch-
adnezzar master of all the magicians, Astrologers and Chaldeans in Baby-
lon." I might go on making extracts from the Bible, Josephus, and
other ancient books to prove that the science of Astrology ante-

dates all ancient written history, They certainly prove that Astrology
is no recent upstart, and that it has been known, studied and practiced
from time immemorial.

All sciences are begun by accumulating facts and by observations and
experiments ; afterwards these facts, observations and experiments are

compared and arranged in regular order. Hence it is said that

science is knowledge methodically arranged and classified ; it is

then much easier to be learned, as the most simple part can be acquired
first. Afterwards the more complicated parts can be learned, and so on.

I hope I have succeeded in so arranging the various parts of the science of
Astrology that any one who has acquired a common school education
can study Astrology and prove its truth or falsity.

Before commencing the " Elements of Astrology/' the reader
may desire to know whether we have any facts to prove that the planets

the Sun and Moon have any influence on the earth and its inhabitants,

as he may think that if we cannot furnish some proof before commenc-
ing studying that science, it might be all a waste of time attempting to

learn it ; also it may be advisable to give some proof that in all ages and
in all countries Astrology has in some way been mixed up in people's
minds with other things, and other so-called learning, such as dreams,
witchcraft, etc., that have no connection whatever with it. We have a

remarkable illustration in the Bible where Pharoahs and kings believed
that dreams were in some way associated with Astrology, and that

Astrologers had some supernatural knowledge of interpreting dreams
and other occult powers.

I give the following as proof of what I here state, and also proof of
planetary influence on the earth and its inhabitants.



58 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

PHARAOH'S DREAM AND THE MAGICIANS OF EGYPT
AND BABYLON.*

Genesis xli, 8.—" And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was
troubled, and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all the

wise men thereof, and Pharaoh told them his dream, but there was none that

could interpret them unto Pharaoh."
14, 16. " Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and Pharaoh said unto

Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there is none that can interpret

it, and I have heard say of thee, that thou canst understand a dream and
interpret it."

According to the Bible it appears that Pharaoh was very much
troubled about his dreams, and wished to have an interpretation of them,

and no doubt he thought the Magicians and Wise Men were the most
capable of interpreting them.

We also read in Daniel, chapter 11, that Nebuchadnezzar had a

dream which troubled him very much, but he did not remember it ; he

not only wanted the wise men to interpret the dream, but to tell him
what he had dreamt, as we read in verses z, 5, and 10 :

" Then the king commanded to call the Magicians and the Astrolo-
gers and the Sorcerers and the Chaldeans, for to shew the king his dream

;

so they came and stood before the king."
"The king answered and said to the Chaldeans, The thing [dream]

has gone from me; if you will not make known unto me the dream and the
interpretation thereof, ye shall be cut in pieces, and your houses shall be
made a dunghill."

"The Chaldeans answered before the king and said, There is not a man
upon the earth that can show the king's matter; therefore there is no king,
lord, or ruler that asketh such a thing of any Magician, or Astrologer, or
Chaldean."

But Daniel made up a fine story, and told the king that he had been
dreaming about a wonderful image, and gave the interpretation of the
fictitious dream, which pleased the king. Had either Pharaoh or Neb-
uchadnezzar known anything about Astrology, they would not have sent

for the Astrologer to interpret dreams, as that science has nothing to do
with such matters. Pharaoh might as well have called together his land
surveyors, or the builders of the pyramids and catacombs of Egypt to
interpret his dreams as to call the Astrologers for that purpose.

Both in ancient and modern times people have had strong impres-
sions or dreams when heavy calamities were hanging over them. The
dreams of Pharaoh and Nebuchadnezzar are instances of ancient times,

* In ancient times people believed that the Lord spoke to persons in dreams and told them
what to do, as we read in Matthew, chapter 2, verse 13, The angel of the lord appeared to

Joseph, in a dream saying, " Arise and take the young: child and his mother, and flee into Egypt."
We also read in Joel, 2d chapter, 28th verse "

: Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy,
your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions."

Some of these dreams seems to have been so plain as to interpret themselves, but other
dreams required what was called an interpreter, and some persons became very noted on account
of their special gift in interpreting dreams, and were often in great demand.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 59
and I might instance Lizzie Borden and President Lincoln of modern
times. In the trial of Lizzie Borden it came out that she had told a

lady friend, on the evening previous to the murder of her father and
mother, that she was afraid something was going to happen to her father.

We have another instance in that of President Lincoln, who the night
before his assassination was troubled with an unpleasant dream. On the
following morning he was very much depressed, and while at the Cabinet
meeting he told those present about it, and said that he had similar

dreams before the battle of Bull Run and other disastrous events of the
Union army, and he was afraid that some other unfortunate event was
about to take place that would in some way affect the Government. I

need not remind the reader that on the same evening President Lincoln
was assassinated by Wilkes Booth in Ford's Theatre, Washington, and
the whole Cabinet came near being murdered that night by a band of
conspirators.

In ancient times people paid more attention to dreams than they do
now, and a good interpreter was in great demand. According to Bible
history Joseph paid great attention to the interpretation of dreams.
No doubt he had a particular gift for interpreting them, as is shown
by the interpreting of the Butler's and Baker's dreams while they were
in prison. In both cases the interpretation was true.

Joseph's gift as an interpreter is no argument for or against Astrology
;

yet I have heard scores of sermons on Pharaoh's dream and Joseph's
successful interpretation, after the Magicians and Wise Men had failed,

and it was noted as a forcible argument against the science of Astrology.
The interpreters of dreams, clairvoyants, mind readers, Gypsies, fortune
tellers, etc., although commonly classed under the name Astrologers,
have no connection whatever with the science of Astrology.

Astrology is purely a science of observation and inductive philoso-
phy, which has been continued for thousands of years, and by people
who have made it their special business to make these observations,

even in spite of the opposition and persecution which the votaries of this

science have had to endure.
In ancient times all the civilized nations had their wise men and

Astrologers on hand so as to be ready whenever the kings or Pharaohs
wished to consult them, and, as Richard A. Proctor said, "The cuneiform
inscriptions of Assyria, the hieroglyphs of Egypt, the most ancient rec-

ords of Babylon, Persia, India, and China, agree in showing that of old
all men believed the Sun and Moon, Planets and Stars in their course
foretell, nay, rule the fortunes of men."

In ancient times, and even of late years, everything of a mysterious
nature was classed under the head of Astrology, and even Astronomy
came under the same class, as all the calculations in that science were
made solely for the use of Astrologers, and to enable them to make their

predictions, before the science of navigation came into general practice.

Why Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, should have called the
Astrologers to tell him his dream, is difficult to understand, as the most
ancient books we have on Astrology in use at the present day, which
were written more than two thousand years ago by one of the Pharaohs



6o SLP.MENT3 OF ASTROLOGY.

of Egypt, called Claudius Ptolemy, the author of the Ptolemaic system
of Astronomy, does not mention anything about interpreting dreams
by Astrology in his Four Books on that science.

MISREPRESENTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
The reader can judge how much Astrology has to do with the inter-

preting of dreams, clairvoyance, fortune-telling, etc., after he has read
what follows,which I give as a sample of the observations which Astrologers
have made of late years in that science, and also to prove for themselves
whether or not Astrology has any foundation in the laws of nature.

THEORIES OF ANCIENT ASTRONOMERS.
how planets are supposed to affect the earth and its inhabitants

Jupiter's perihelion coincident with the return of cholera.

It is an axiom of modern philosophy that nothing occurs by chance
;

every event is the effect of the action of some law. Often the occur-
rence may be clouded so that its primary cause is not apparent, and some
minds will consider it of the nature of a miracle, but investigation will

always prove the existence of the motive power.
The periodic visitation of epidemics of disease is one of the occur-

rences to which many possible causes have been assigned, but medical men
are far from giving a satisfactory explanation of their appearance. In some
years cholera has started from its birthplace in India, and traveled over
most of the world. In other years it. has remained about its home, and
we have heard little of it. It may be said that the circumstances which
permit of its being carried to different places in the years of its greatest

prevalence are the causes of its spreading ; but this is not entirely true.

The methods of prevention are never relaxed, as the people always
regard it as a public enemy which has to be kept at a distance.

The passage of cholera from one place to another seems to be often

more rapid than the means of communication by ordinary travel. That
it is dependent upon and aided in its spread by atmospheric conditions

is recognized ; but that its germination is also dependent upon a vitiation

of our atmosphere has not been admitted by the medical faculty.

It was the accepted theory of the old astronomers that the earth was
influenced by the other planets of our solar system. Since the change
from the Ptolemaic system of astronomy, which was based upon the
theory that the earth was the centre and all the other planets revolved
around it, the modern theories have accepted the sun only as the source
of all power and life, and the influence of our sister planets upon mun-
dane life has been denied.

That the ancient astronomers could have followed their theories
blindly for so long a time, without some basis in fact, seems hardly prob-
able, and that the evidences upon which their theories were based were
not altered by the discovery that the groundwork of their structure was
wrong, leads a few men to-day to accept some of their teachings as true..

It was their belief that certain positions of the planets so influenced our
earth that epidemics, earthquakes, and often changes in our social rela



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 6l

tions, were the result. That it has some basis in truth is evidenced by
circumstances which may be easily verified.

In our solar system the planets, including the earth, revolve around
the sun in regular periods. The orbits, or paths, of the journeying
spheres do not form a perfect circle, however, and each planet at some
part of its path is nearer to the sun than in other portions of its orbit.

The great Kepler proved that these orbits take the form of an ellipsis or
oval, of which the sun forms the central point of one end. When a

planet passes that portion of its circle where it is nearest to the sun it is

technically considered in its perihelion, from the Greek peri, about or

near, and helios, the sun. In the opposite segment of its circle it is said

to be in aphelion.

The periods when the superior planets, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and
Neptune are in their perihelia seems to be coincident with the appear-
ance of epidemics of disease, and particularly with the retutn of Jupiter
and Saturn to that portion of their orbits does the earth and its inhabit-

ants seem to suffer.

Jupiter makes the circuit around the sun in a little less than twelve
years. Owing to the ovoid form of his orbit, he is near the sun about
one-quarter of the time, and away from the central orb three-quarters.

Saturn makes his revolution in about twenty-nine and one-half years,

and, therefore, is in perihelion several years. Two of these periods of

Saturn occupy about fifty-nine years, and correspond to five of the periods
of Jupiter ; and both planets reach their nearest point to the sun together
every fifty-nine years, and are at that time many millions of miles nearer
to the great central orb than they are in aphelion.

The article on cholera in the August number of the New York Med-
ical Journal for 1871 asserts that cholera had broken out in Hudwar,
India, every twelfth year since 1783, and notably in 1867. This seems



62 ELFMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

to correspond with the perihelion epochs of Jupiter, and a study of a
few of these epochs may be interesting.

PERIHELION EPOCH OF JUPITER.
The years 1892 and 1893 is one of the times when Jupiter is passing

the central point of his perihelion. That the earth has felt some dis-

turbing influence is easily proven. The prevalence of cholera, which
threatened to invade this country, after making itself felt so disastrously

in Hamburg and different parts of Germany, France, Russia, Spain, and
Italy, and the great mortality which it produced in those countries, be-

sides the large number of cases and deaths at New York Quarantine
in the summer and fall of 1892 ; also the return of typhus fever to New
York in the spring of that year, and the large number of cases and deaths
from that disease. It is a remarkable coincidence that we have not had
a single case of typhus fever either in New York or any part of the
United States since the last perihelion of Jupiter in 1881, and typhus
cases are likely to occur until Jupiter gets out of his perihelion.

Regarding the prospects of cholera visiting the Unite States in the
year (1893), the following is from the New York Sunday News of July
16th, 1893 :

" Cholera Prospects.—What is the outlook for cholera ? asks a cor-

respondent of the Philadelphia Times. Latest advices from United
States consular and medical officers abroad are gloomy. The disease

prevails all over France. It is at Nantes, Quimper, Narbonne, Mont-
pelier, Niemes, Toulouse, and Cette. There are several cases at Mar-
seilles, from which great port vessels are sailing every day for America.
In the district of Lorient and Vannes the plague is widespread. Mean-
while it is raging in Galicia, Austro-Hungary, and in several provinces
of Southwest Russia. However, it is well-nigh impossible to get any
definite information as to the progress of the complaint in the Czar's
dominions, owing to a secretive official policy. Complaining of this,

our Minister at St. Petersburg asks that a physician under the Marine
Hospital Service be attached to the legation for the purpose of gather-
ing medical news.

" The plague has just broken out at Mecca with alarming virulence.

The holy city is only two days' journey by caravan from the nearest Red
Sea port. At the same time the United States Minister at Constanti-
nople reports that the disease is spreading rapidly westward from Bagdad
across Mesopotamia toward the Mediterranean. There is much com-
merce directly between this country and the ports of the Mediterranean
and Red Sea. When it is considered that such news is far from reassuring,

it is some comfort to know that there is no cholera in Germany. At
Hamburg, which no longer gets its water supply from the infected River
Elbe, only one case has appeared since March 1."

Great credit is due both to the authorities at Washington and the

Board of Health of New York in preventing cholera from getting a foot-

hold in this city in the fall of 1892; and if Jupiter were only further

along in his perihelion, we might venture to hope that the same vigilance

will prevent its access here in the summer and fall of 1893.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 63

As one of the effects of the present perihelion of Jupiter, I might
mention the visits of La Grippe, which has traveled twice around the

world in the last few years, and carried off hundreds of thousands of its

victims, and left its lasting effects on millions of others which it attacked,
but which survived after a lingering illness.

The large number of earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, cloudbursts,
and floods, in all parts of the world, seems to give rise to a belief in the
existence of some super-mundane cause. As Jupiter will be in his peri-
helion for nearly two years yet, it is probable, judging from past events,
that we shall suffer more or less during that time.

Twelve years ago was the period of Jupiter's last passage around the
sun, and for a couple of years previous, as well as in the years immedi-
ately following, there were diseases in epidemic form. In the years

1878, 1879, 1880, and 1881, yellow fever was epidemic part of
the time in New Orleans, Memphis, and Vicksburg ; the black pest in

Russia and Turkey, where diphtheria was also prevalent; a severe
epidemic of cholera existed in India, which spread to Egypt and invaded
France, being epidemic in Marseilles and Toulon, carrying off thousands
of the inhabitants of the two cities, and crossing into Italy, There were
many cloudbursts, cyclones and earthquakes in those years. Typhus fever
was prevalent in 1881 in New York, and there had not been any cases

of that disease here for a number of years previous.
In 1868 Jupiter was in perihelion, and as early as 1866 cases of cholera

occurred in the United States, and the disease was prevalent from that
time till 1873. Perhaps the most serious time was in the year 1866.
In 1867 it was very violent in India.

The next previous perihelion of Jupiter was in 1856. Saturn also

reached his nearest point to the sun in that year, and diseases were
prevalent for several years before and after that time. Cholera broke
out in this country in 1851, and lasted several years. Yellow fever was
more virulent than usual in the South ; in New Orleans in 1853, and
again in 1856, and in Norfolk in 185c. During the French, English,

and Russian war in 1854 and 1855, cholera and low fevers carried cff

thousands of soldiers in the Crimea. The number of deaths was so

great as to attract the attention of the whole civilized world.

Jupiter made his next previous perihelion in 1845. In that year
cholera commenced in India and traveled to every part of Europe, and
notably severe in Russia. In England it was particularly virulent. In

that part of England where I then resided there was scarcely a house
in which cholera did not exist, and in some families every member died.

The mortality was so great in some neighborhoods that one person out
of every seventeen died of the disease; and the atmosphere there was so

vitiated that perishable food became putrid in much less than the usual

time. A piece of meat elevated on the tail of a kite became putrid in

little over an hour. I remember in the summer and fall of 1848
when walking out evenings, that the atmosphere was so heavy and op-
pressive that at times it was very difficult to breathe, and it had a

very oppressive effect on me. The cholera reached this country in

1848, and was epidemic in New York and Philadelphia. Mars was in



64 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

his perigee in 1847, and probably assisted in the vitiation of the atmos-
phere.

In 1833 Jupiter was once more near the sun. That year and the
year previous are known in the history of the country as the cholera
years. The disease commenced in India in' 1829, and in 1830 spread
over Europe with great virulence and rapidity. The disease made such
great inroads into our population that it will probably be remembered
for generations to come. Most of our oldest citizens refer back to that

time as the cholera year. Mars was in perigee in 1832, and probably
lent his influence to the destruction of life. Saturn was in perihelion in

1826, and his deteriorating power was probably the starting of the epidemic
so early in Europe.

In 1797 Jupiter and Saturn reached their nearest point to the sun
about the same time, and Uranus made the visit in 1798. Noah Web-
ster, the compiler of the dictionary which bears his name, collected the
data of epidemics in past centuries, in two volumes, and published them
in 1799, under the head of " A History of Pestilential Diseases." His
account of the events of these years is startling.

Yellow fever was prevalent in every seaport of the United States as

far north as Portland, Me. In Philadelphia it was very severe, and the
accounts written by Dr. Rush of his experience then may be read with
interest by those who desire to investigate. Winters were very severe
at that period, and the Delaware river was frozen over for months at

a time ; and for this reason, as well as the unhealthy summers and the
yellow fever in that city continuing until the frost set in, Philadelphia
received its great fall and New York its rise. From that time the Penn-
sylvania metropolis lost its prestige as a seaport, and New York was the
gainer.

Many theories have been advanced to account for the influence of
planets in their perihelia. That immense bodies like Jupiter and Saturn
are likely to affect the other planets of our solar system by their approach
to the central power, is reasonable. The means by which this influence
is transmitted to the earth is, of course, a matter for speculation.

A very ingenius theory is, that the presence of these great orbs near
the sun interferes with the operation of the law of gravitation upon the
earth, the lessening of the sun's influence permitting the exudation of
vapors, and reducing the vitality of the earth's inhabitants. That there
are many eruptions cf volcanoes and earthquakes, cloudbursts and cy-
clones at such times would seem to give force to the idea that some of
the sustaining power is taken from the earth's crust.

Noah Webster finally arrived at the theory that comets were the
cause of the atmospheric disturbance which produced epidemics and pes-
tilential diseases, and instances the cosmic visitor of 1797.

Mr. Webster afterwards gave up that theory, and adopted another
one, which was, that volcanoes and earthquakes were the causes of epi-

demics, by permitting large quantities of noxious gases and impure or

poisonous air to escape from the bowels of the earth during their opera-

tion, and instances the effect of "the great volcanic eruption in Iceland in

1783, by which the atmosphere was rendered pestilential by discharges



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 65

of fire and lava from the earth, so much so that the rain which fell was
acid and corrosive, destroying cattle and men, covering the bodies of

cattle with pustules and sores, and excoriating the hands and faces of

men when it fell on them. It also killed vegetables. The effects were
felt not only in Iceland, but in Norway and other parts of Europe."

Mr. Webster appears sometimes to get confused while writing his two
volumes of " Epidemics and Pestilential Diseases," and is at a loss how
to account for the causes of these diseases. Yet, as he says, it can be
proven by history that one-fourth of the deaths have been caused by
epidemics, and there must be some cause which produces them. His
motive in writing the history of those epidemics was to try and find out
what was their cause. His theory of earthquakes and volcanic eruptions
being the cause, does not appear to meet the case. As he gives instances

where people were driven out of cities by epidemics, and afterwards
driven back by earthquakes that occurred in the country. Therefore,
according to his theory, the effect came before the cause.

Is it not possible that when a number of superior planets are in their

perihelion at the same time, and those planets, which are a thousand
times larger than the earth, and they at that time being millions of
miles nearer the sun than when at their aphelion, that those planets

when near the sun may so act on it, and that orb may react on our
atmosphere, so as to produce earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and other
disturbances of the atmosphre, such as cloudbursts, tornadoes, etc., which
in their turn may cause pestilential diseases, and epidemics naturally to fol-

low, or at least be more prevalent at those periods than at other times ?

Sometimes very heavy floods spread over a large tract of low lands,

carrying mud and vegetation with it ; the sun, acting on it, decomposing
the vegetation and producing fermentation, will often produce chills and
fever, bilious and, at times, typhoid fever. These fevers may so debili-

tate the constitution of the inhabitants as to make them liable to contract
other diseases, the germs of which may exist in the atmosphere.

An extensive overflowing of the Nile in Egypt has been known to
produce typhus fever and the plague, which has extended into other
countries.

Even famine has been known to produce epidemics, an instance of
which is in Genesis xli, 54, when the Nile did not overflow for seven
years.

ACTION AND REACTION OF ONE PLANET ON ANOTHER.
That one planet has an effect on another I think cannot be questioned.

We have a remarkable instance in the discovery of the planet Neptune
by Mr. Leverrier in 1846. For a long time astronomers noticed that

the planet Uranus did not always proceed at its uniform motion in its

orbit, and they came to the conclusion that there must be an undiscovered
planet whose orbit was outside that of Uranus. Mr. Leverrier, 6y his

calculations, not only predicted in what part of the heavens Neptune
must be at that time, but said that the planet must be equal to a star of
the tenth magnitude to produce the disturbing effect in the motion of
Uranus that had been noticed by himself and other astronomers.

If two planets, Neptune and Uranus, which are a thousand. million



—

66 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

miles a\mRT, have a perceptible effect on each other, that can be
noticed by our astronomers with their telescopes, why may not some of
the nearer planets to the earth, as Venus, Mars, and Jupiter, have a

marked influence on the earth and its inhabitants which may be noticed
without a telescope?

The effect of the sun and moon on our tides is a convincing proof
that one planet has an influence on another, to say nothing about the
seasons of the year produced by the sun's rays striking the earth at differ-

ents angles, which cause summer and winter.*

THE EFFECT ON THE EARTH AND ITS INHABITANTS
OF THE NEAR APPROACH OF MARS.

Let us examine the effect of one of the nearest planets to our earth

Mars, termed a superior planet, as its orbit is outside that of the earth,

and ascertain whether it has had any effect upon the earth's atmosphere
and its inhabitants.

Mars, when it makes one of its periodical visits near the earth, called

its perigee, and when the earth is between the sun and Mars, the full

disc of the God of War is presented to us as the moon is when at its

full. Then Mars appears to us much larger than at other times.

Very little knowledge of astronomy is necessary to understand the
relation of this planet to our earth, and the reasons for the changes in its

apparent size when viewed from mother earth. The rapidity of motion
of the planets around the sun is in proportion to their distance from the
sun. Although there is believed to be a small planet closer to the sun,

the nearest that we recognize as of sufficient importance to name is the

God of Messengers, Mercury, which makes a revolution around the celes-

tial centre in about eighty-eight days.

Next to Mercury is Venus, whose revolution is two hundred and
twenty-four and two-thirds days. The planet in which we all have a

vital interest, is next to Venus. The earth makes the journey around
the sun in three hundred and sixty-five days, five hours, forty-eight

minutes and forty-eight seconds, or one revolution in one year. Mars
lies outside of the earth's circle, and completes its circuit around the

sun in one year, ten and one-half months. Jupiter is next in the

group, and occupies nearly twelve years in the circuit. Saturn takes

twenty-nine and a half years, Uranus, or Herschel, as the older astrono-

* It lias been observed by astronomers that wlien Jupiter is in his perihelion, that a great
number of spots appear upon the sun ; they are sometimes formed in a few hours, and are
thousands of miles in diameter, and are even so large that our earth could be dropped into one of
them without touching either side ; also, cloudbursts, tornadoes, etc., are more frequent on the
eartli during the time the sun spots are most numerous and larger than usual. The spots disap-
pear when Jupiter is in his aphelion. This proves almost beyond question that the planets react
on each other. Also, it has been noticed that the Aurora Boreahs, or Northern Lights, are
brighter and more numerous when Jupiter is m his perihelion, and when there are spots on the
sun. We have had no Northern Lights to speak of since Jupiter was last in his perihelion in 1881,
until within the last two years.

Is it not reasonable that when the sun's envelopment is so disturbed by electricity and magnet-
ism that the electricity coming from the sun to our earth and other planets should so disturb the
earth's electricity as to cause cloudbursts, cyclones, tornadoes, and other atmospheric disturbances
and at times even so disarrange the gases of our atmosphere sufficient to produce epidemics aftid

other diseases? ffi^* See note, page 62.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 67

mers called him, eighty-four years and twenty-seven days, and Neptune,
the most distant yet discovered, consumes one hundred and sixty-five

years in his passage from any given point in his orbit around the sun and
back to the same place.

DIAGRAM OF THE SOLAR SYSTEM.

The above diagram is a representation of the Solar System, with the sun in the center, and the
planets revolving around it. The large dot on the outer circle, in the upper left hand, represents
Neptune, which is calculated to be 2,850 million miles away from the sun. The dot on the next
inner circle, opposite Neptune, is Uranus, which is 1,828 million miles from the sun. On the next
inner circle, on the right upper side, or the dot with the ring around it, is the planet Saturn, which
is 909 million miles from the sun. The large dot on the next inner circle, below Saturn, is Jupiter,
which is 495 million miles from the sun. On the next inner circle, on the lower portion, is Mars,
at the distance of 14S million miles from the sun. The next dot, just on the line toward the sun
from Jupiter, is the planet we are all interested in, the Earth, and it revolves around the sun at
the distance of 95 million miles. On the next inner circle, on the upper right hand side, is the
planet Venus, which revolves around the sun at the distance of 68 million miles. The little dot on
the smallest circle, and opposite the planet Venus, is Mercury, which is 37 million miles from the
sun. The ovals, with the dots and the long tails to them, are comets coming toward and receding
from the sun. They always come toward the sun with the head or nucleus foremost, but when
they get near that orb they commence to turn around, with their tails away from the sun, and back
away tail foremost, with the head or nucleus still toward the sun. The comet on the lower portion
is represented as approaching the sun, and the one on the upper part represents a comet receding
or going away from the sun. The very small dots around the larger ones represent the moons of
the planets,

MARS IN OPPOSITION TO THE SUN.

The approach of Mars to our earth was always viewed by the old

astronomers as a period to be dreaded. They believed that wars, fam-
ines, volcanic eruptions, and earthquakes would be the result, and certainly

there were many curious coincidences to give coloring to their fears. That
this position of Mars does affect our atmosphere cannot be disputed;

whether by an interference with the supply of vital fluid from the sun,

the robbing of us by the attractive power of the visitor of our mag-
netism from the sun, or simply by disturbing the equilibrium of our



68 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

gases and changing the relations of the elements which form our atmos-
phere, is not known. That some disturbance occurs is a fact.

In the case of Mars, it is an easy matter to refer to the period
when he approaches nearest to our earth, and, though he does so once
in every revolution, yet the greatest occurrences are at the time when
our earth lies between the sun and Mars, and Mars is in his perigee
at the same time, which is once in about fifteen years. Mars is then
said to be in perigee, and at the same time in opposition to the sun,

as the old astronomers termed it, the earth in those days being con-
sidered the centre of our planetary system.

The planet Mars was, in August, 1892, in this unfavorable position,

and whether his presence was the cause of the labor strikes in Penn-
sylvania, Western New York, and Tennessee or not, it is strange that

the two should occur together. Mars passes on, and as it began to

pass its perigee the labor troubles at Carnegie's and other parts of the

United States were gradually adjusted, and the excitement subsided.

And we may thank the God of War for his departure and the peaceful

settlement of the labor troubles.

The last time that Mars paid the earth a similar visit was in 1877.
It does not require a very good memory to recall the stirring incidents

of that memorable year in the history of labor troubles. Pennsylvania
has been much stirred by the Homestead troubles, but the Carnegie
strike was nothing compared to the Pittsburg riots of that year. Busi-

ness was stagnated, and the whole country was aroused by the scenes

which transpired in 1877. And ^ad lt not Deen for Wm. H. Vanderbilt
offering a premium to the employees of the New York Central and
Hudson River Railroad, it is more than likely that there would have
been a general strike of railroad employees throughout the United
States. As it was, there was a large number of the militia called out to

put down riots in different States. The moons of Mars were discovered
at that time.

THE PERIOD OF THE WAR.

From 1877 it requires but slight thought to carry every citizen back
anothor fifteen years. War and strife darkened our country in 1861—'65,
and from the perils of that period we are only now recovering. That
visit of Mars was intensified by another influence, which we will refer to

further on.

In 1847-8 the next previous approach of Mars to the earth brought
war with Mexico and this country, also exciting political times in Europe,
where every government felt some disturbing element. Louis Phillippe
met his downfall in France, the Pope was forced to seek safety in flight

from Rome, all were a strange series of coincidences.
Fifteen years previous to that time carries us back to 1832. Few

persons are alive to-day to tell of the scenes of the cholera epidemic.
It was the greatest infliction this country ever suffered from the dread
disease, and business was nearly at a standstill.

In 1832 England was on the verge of a revolution, and only the
passage of the Reform bill prevented serious disturbances and cruel war.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 69

CRITICAL TIMES.

It may be asserted that wars, riots, disease and other troubles have come
when Mars was far from the earth, and it is not to be denied. But Mars

is not the only planet whose visits have seemed to be coincident with

mundane disturbances. All life insurance companies agree in the state-

ment that the twenty-ninth year is the most critical period in the lives

of individuals. More deaths occur at this age, or immediately preceding

or following it, than at any other time, except in early infancy^ This

period corresponds exactly to the revolution of Saturn, whose journey

around the sun is completed in twenty-nine and a-half years. The older

astronomers paid more attention to that evil planet than our present

students of astral science.

The most remarkable coincidences, though, are to be found by a

study of the revolutions of the distant orb Uranus. Most stirring scenes

have followed his return to certain positions in the Zodiac, and though
it cannot be explained why, or by what means these phenomena are

brought about, yet they are easily seen to be quite nearly allied in time.

According to the writings of ancient astronomers, such as Claudius
Ptolemy and other ancient Astrologers, each country was said to be
ruled by a particular sign of the Zodiac ; for instance, Aries was said to

rule England, Taurus Ireland, and the celestial sign Gemini has been
considered by students of astral science to be the constellation which rules

the United States. The incidents which have led to the adoption of

this theory are worthy of study; particularly those phenomena which
have seemed to follow the advent of Uranus and other planets into this

constellation. Uranus is at present in the sign of Scorpio. He remains
in a sign seven years, traveling through the twelve signs of the Zodiac
in his circuit around the sun in eighty-four years. Uranus entered the
constellation of Gemini the last time in 1859, and occupied seven years,

or until 1865, in transiting through it.

A STIRRING PERIOD.
This period, commencing with the Harper's Ferry incident, and

followed by the firing on Fort Sumter, the bloodv battles of an awful
rebellion was one of the most trying times the Federation of our Union
has ever passed through.

In the January number of" The Monthly Planet Reader and Astro-
logical Journal "* of 1861, published in Philadelphia at that time by the
author, referring to the —

then anticipated Civil War, I said : " Uranus
does not pass out of Gemini until 1865, and I do not look for any peace
for this country ,

until that time.' This period was also made critical

by the perigee of Mars. I remember distinctly in reading the newspapers
at the time the account of the capture of the arsenal at Harper's Ferry,
Va., the arrest, trial and hanging of John Brown; the bombardment and
surrender to the rebels of Fort Sumter ; the secession of the Southern

* The back numbers of the above named Journal, bound in one volume, containing a number
of predictions relating to the Civil War, also horoscopes of the leading Generals in the United
States at the time, mailed to any address for $1.09. „ _ ..



JO ELEMENTS OF ASTROSOGY.

States ; the battles of Bull Run and Ball's Bluff; the surrender of New
Orleans and Vicksburg and a number of Southern forts to the Union
army; the battles of Chancellorsville and Petersburg; the battles in the
Wilderness, Spotsylvania, and Cold Harbor ; also the battles of Shiloh,
Lookout Mountain, and of Gettysburg, Sherman's march to the sea, and
the surrender of General Lee to General Grant, at Appomattox Court
House, on April 9th, 1865, just as the planet Uranus was approach-
ing the end of the sign Gemini. Uranus entered the sign Cancer on the
25th of June, when the war came to an end.*

Let us go back to the next previous transit of the planet Uranus
through Gemini, which carries us back eighty-four years, and we arrive

at another exciting period when Uranus and war were coincident visitors.

It is just eighty-four years from 1859 to 1775, and from that year till

1782 our country passed through fire and devastation, or, as Thomas
Paine said, "these were the times that tried men's souls."

There is not a schoolboy who has not read about the " War of
the Revolution," and knows all about the throwing of the tea into

Boston harbor, the battles of Bunker Hill and Lexington, the retreat of
Washington through New Jersey and his recrossing the Delaware, the
trying winter months at Valley Forge, the battles of Bennington and
Schuylerville, the treachery of Benedict Arnold, and the surrender of
Lord Cornwallis to General Washington.

Uranus entered the sign of Gemini in the spring of 1775, and left
"

that sign in the spring of 1782. Hale's " History of the United States

says: "Early in the spring of 1782 pacific overtures were made to the

American Government, and both nations desisted from hostile measures."

IMPORTANT ERA IN HISTORY.
Eighty-four years previous to the time of the American Revolution

was not so serious a period for the country, but from 1691 to 1698 was
sufficiently marked to be considered an important era in history. The
Salem witchcraft horrors were during that period, and the semi-insanity

* Some of my critical readers may be disposed to say that as the war came to an end before the

planet Uranus left the sign Gemini, therefore that planet had nothing to do with the war of the Re-
bellion. At the time of Gen. Lee's surrender to Gen. Grant, April 9, 1865, Uranus had less than
four degrees to travel to get out of the ruling sign of this country. Even then the excitement of

the Rebellion was not quite over, as President Lincoln was shot after that time. And when the
last of the Rebels surrendered on May 26th, Uranus was over twenty-eight degrees and eleven
minutes in Gemini. All Astrologers agree in their writings that when a planet is over rwentv-
eight degrees in a sign, it then takes on the influence of the sign following. Therefore Uranus's
influence over the United States was ended at the time when the war came to an end.

When I predicted in the "Monthly Planet Reader" of Januarv, 1861, "that until Uranus
gets out of the sign Gemini," which would not be "until June, 1865, we do not look for any
peace for this country," the people of Philadelphia had many a good laugh at my expense, as
nearly everybody came to the conclusion that the excitement would soon blow over ; and even
Abraham Lincoln was of the same opinion, as he said in his speeches " that there was nobody
hurt." In the April number of 1861 I said: " I look for warlike preparations during the middle
of April, or some decided blow being struck either by the General Government or the seceding
States." I need not remind the reader that the Rebels commenced firing on Fort Sumter on
April 13th. Also, in the April number of 1865 I made the following prediction: " Some noted
General or a person in high office dies or is removed about the 17th or 18th. President Lincoln
died on April 15th, after being shot by Wilkes Booth on the 14th. I mention these as remarkable
coincidences made by the calculation of the motions of the planets and their influence on mundane
affairs.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 71

which seemed to till the minds of learned judges was enough in itself to
indicate that the same disturbing influence was operating. Uranus entered
Gemini in the spring of 169], and the first accusation of bewitching
occurred in Salem in February, 1692, and the first trial for witchcraft in

June of that year. Hale's History says "the war with the French and
Indians, which began in 1690, was not yet terminated. For seven years
were the frontier settlements harassed by savages, and the English em-
ployed in expeditions against them. A history of these would consist

only of repeated accounts of Indian cunning and barbarity, and of
English enterprise and fortitude. Peace between England and France,
which took place in 1697, was soon followed by peace with the
savages."

The next previous period of Uranus's visit to Gemini was during the
seven years commencing in 1607. Captain John Smith with Captain
Christopher Newport reached Chesapeake Bay, ascended the James
River, and founded the village of Jamestown, the first permanent settle-

ment in the country, in April, 1607, the time that Uranus entered the
sign of Gemini. The unsettled conditions which followed are very easily

remembered by students, and the troubles of the early settlers did not
cease until 1614, when the immigrants made up their minds to embark
from Jamestown, and distribute themselves among the fishermen on the
banks of Newfoundland. With this intention they embarked, but just

as they drew near the mouth of the James River Lord Delaware appeared
with immigrants and supplies. Sir Thomas Dale, who ruled with vigor
and wisdom, made several valuable changes in the laws of the colony.

Uranus left the sign Gemini in 1614. Hale, in his "History of the
United States," when describing the condition of the people at James-
town from 1607 to 1614, says "

: The latter part of this period of suffer-

ing and gloom was long remembered with horror, and was distinguished
by the name of ' the starving fane.' In six months at one time want,
sickness, anarchy, and vice had reduced the number of the colonyfrom
490 to 60."

I have given the historical effect of one planet in the ruling sign of
the United States, extending from 1607 to 1865. The events that took
place in each of the seven years, or during the time that Uranus remained
in the sign Gemini, may be said to be the epochs in the history of
this country. In short, if the events that occurred in the seven years
that Uranus remained in Gemini, in the four revolutions, were to be left

out of the history of the United States, we should have a history of the
country which would be similar in every respect to the play of Hamlet
with Hamlet left out.

In the foregoing pages I have pointed out the influences or the effects

of the planets on mundane affairs, when acting separately, and proved
from history the events which have occurred near the same time. To
say the least, it must strike the reader as something very remarkable, and
it is somewhat strange that the attention of the learned professions,

especially astronomers, has not previously been drawn to those remark-
able coincidences.

But these gentlemen have been so engaged in ridiculing everything



72 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

that had any resemblance to investigating the laws of nature, that they
have not been able to look any further than the end of their noses.

Mr. B. G. Jenkins, of London, England, said in a paper read by him
before the Dulwich College Geological Club, in the summer of 1888, on

METEOROLOGY AND PLANETARY INFLUENCE:
"From the lofty heights of modern science we have been accustomed

to look down with pity and contempt upon the Astrologer of the Mid-
dle Ages—the weak dabblers in science, who were foolish enough to
believe that the stars had an influence upon man. An allusion to
Astrology was always good to raise a laugh at a science meeting, and
the Astrologers and Alchemists were classed together as either dreamers
or charlatans. Of late years, however, a reaction has set in. The
Astrologer is becoming habilitated very rapidly. The influence of the
planets upon the earth is now admitted to be very distinct, and fresh

proofs of their disturbing influences are constantly cropping out."

If the planets Mars, Jupiter, and Uranus, the first in its perigee and
in opposition to the sun, the second in perihelion, and the third while
transiting through Gemini, the ruling sign of the United States, have
produced such marvelous effects, both in this country and in other parts

of the world, and their influences have been so conspicuous as to

become almost landmarks in the history of those nations, is it not
possible, reasoning from analogy, that the effect may be even more
marked on the earth and its inhabitants when there are two or more
planets operating at the same time? This can only be proved or dis-

proved by making astronomical calculations and referring to pages of
history for facts.

Jupiter's perihelion occurs every eleven years and ten months ; Mars,
when in opposition to the sun and in his perigee at the same time, occurs
about every fifteen years. Sometimes these phenomena coincide or
occur near the same time ; at other times they occur a number of years

apart.

We will only notice those periods when the perigee and perihelion

of these planets occur near the same time, and refer to pages of history

for corroboration of their influence. But before doing so let us refer

to another remarkable coincidence. Is it not singular that the first

time cholera broke out in its native home, Hudwar, India, and spread
to other countries in 1783; also the time when the great volcanic
eruption in Iceland, which caused such sad havoc to animal and vegeta-

ble life, should both occur in the same year ? Noah Webster, in his

first volume, was of the opinion that comets were the cause of epidemics,
as he had noticed in history that either during or just previous to epi-

demics, comets made their appearance, and that but few if any exceptions
to this rule had ever occurred; but in his second volume, his attention

having been called to the destructive effects to animal life of the great
volcanic eruption in Iceland, and of volcanoes in other places, he came
to the conclusion that volcanic eruptions and earthquakes were the causes

of epidemics and pestilential diseases.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 73

The first perihelion of Jupiter which I shall call attention to occurred
in 1785, or within two years of the great volcanic eruption in Iceland,

and the first perigee of Mars, which occurred near that time, was in 1787,
two years afterwards. In 1789 the French revolution broke out, which
lasted many years, and which deluged the greater part of France in

blood, and plunged the whole civilized world into war, and over one
million soldiers were slain.

In 1832 Mars was again in perigee, and Jupiter in perihelion in 1833.
This planetary influence was intensified by the perihelion of Saturn in

1826. Then occurred the greatest epidemic of cholera ever known;
also there was a great commotion in England, which lasted several years,

and came close to a civil war, as the people demanded and got the
extention of the franchise. In 1845 was another perihelion of Jupiter,
and in 1847 Mars was in his perigee, when cholera again spread over
nearly the whole world. The United States was at war with Mexico,
and all Europe was in political convulsions, which continued for several

years. In August, 1892, Mars was again in his perigee, and in October
Jupiter was in perihelion. I need only to refer to the epidemic of La
Grippe. It has been estimated that over three hundred thousand persons
died of that disease in the United States in its two visits of i889~'90.
It is reported that other countries in Europe and Asia sufFered more in

proportion to their population than the United States did. In short,

there is not a part of the earth where La Grippe did not visit in its two
voyages around the world. To say nothing about the epidemic of
cholera in Europe and Asia in the summer and fall of 1892 and during
the present summer (1893); also yellow fever is prevalent this summer.
In Brazil it was reported that three hundred a day were dying of the
fever. Small pox in Norway is so epidemic that the Emperor of Ger-
many did not touch at any of the ports on his voyage in the North Sea
in July, 1893.

There is no doubt but that these evil influences will produce the
most dire effects in France and Germany, and that both those countries
will be deluged in blood. I shall dwell more on this subject in the latter

part of this volume, in which I shall publish the horoscope of William
II. of Germany and the horoscope of the time when the third Republic
of France was formed.

The effect of the perihelion of Jupiter and the perigee of Mars occur-
ring within two months of each other in 1892, will certainly be more dis-

astrous than that which occurred before the French Revolution, and will

be more lasting, but not quite so disastrous in causing epidemics, on account
of three superior planets, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune, each getting out
of his perihelion and going into aphelion. But there is no doubt but
that before Jupiter gets out of his perihelion, which will not be before the
end of 1894, we shall have enough cholera and other epidemics, both on
this continent and in Europe and Asia, to satisfy any reasonable person.

If the planet Uranus had entered the sign Gemini seven years later,

or in 1783 instead of 1775, or if the perigee of Mars or the perihelion
of Jupiter had occurred seven years earlier, the war of the Revolution
would have been more destructive of human life than it was. Even as



74 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

it was, the United States felt the disastrous effect of Jupiter and Saturn
in their perihelion in 1797 and of Uranus in 1798, when yellow fever

was epidemic from New Orlaans to Portland, Maine, during 1793, 1794
and 1795.

If there had been a perihelion of Jupiter near the time of the break-
ing out of the war of the Rebellion, that war would have been more
destructive to human life; but one of the perihelions of Jupiter occurred
several years before the war broke out, the other several years after it

was ended. Even as it was, the Union soldiers suffered greatly with
fever while camping out in the Southern States, which J attribute to the
perigee of Mars in 1862.

Had the perigee of Mars occurred in i860 or 1861, when the planet
Uranus was in the early degrees of Gemini, the war would have been
more bitter and fierce than it was. Neither the North or the South
appeared to get up sufficient steam or to be in real earnest about the war
until Mars entered his perigee in the spring of 1862. After that the

North and South were in earnest until the war ended.
What made the Crimean war so destructive to the health and lives

of the English and French soldiers in 1854 and 1855 was the perihelion

of Jupiter in 1856, and what made the Franco-Prussian war so destruc-

tive to the health and lives of the German and French soldiers, caused
by an epidemic of small pox, in spite of vaccination and revaccination,

was the perihelion of Jupiter in 1868-69.

THE PLANET NEPTUNE IN GEMINI.

In the foregoing pages attention has been called to the effect on this

country of the planet Uranus in the sign of Gemini. I might have
given a number of other times when planets were transiting through rhe

sign Gemini, and noted their influence on this country ; but in doing so

I was afraid the subject would become too complicated for the general

reader to follow. Perhaps it will not be uninteresting to notice the effect

on this and other countries of another planet in Gemini, viz., Neptune,
Neptune has only transited through Gemini once since Captain

Christopher Newport and his followers entered the James River and
founded the village of Jamestown. It takes Neptune one hundred and
sixty-five years to go once around the sun, or to make one revolution,

and fourteen years to go through one sign.

Neptune entered Gemini in 1720 and left it in 1734. In 1720
England was at war with Spain, and the American colonies suffered much
on that account, especially in the Carolinas. The Spaniards in Florida

incited the Indians against the inhabitants of the South, and harassed

them for a number of years, until the Indians were conquered and they
emigrated to New York, where they joined the Five Nations in 1722.

South Carolina was in open rebellion, and refused to recognize the

royal governor, and in 1720 they elected James Moore governor, who
was afterwards recognized by England.

In 1729 the King of England purchased for twenty-two thousand and
five hundred pounds, seven of the eight proprietors. Carolina was alter-



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 75

wards divided and railed North and South Carolina, each receiving a
royal governor.

In 1727 the Count De Los Terres laid siege to Gibraltar, but all his

efforts to plant the Spanish flag on that Rock were unavailing. Spain
also fitted out a large fleet to invade England, but failed, partly on
account of the storms at sea, which disabled and separated the war ships,

two being captured in the Orkney Islands, Scotland.
In England the South Sea Company had been formed with the object

of trading on the Pacific coast of South America. Afterwards this com-
pany bid against the Bank of England, and succeeded in buying up the
British annuities, and National debt, they to collect certain taxes. These
annuities could be changed into South Sea shares at the option of the
holder. Within six days thousands of the annuitants had exchanged
their certain income for the boundless imaginary riches of South America.
The company circulated the report that the English and Spanish nations
were going to trade Gibraltar for Peru, where there was reported to be
so many gold and silver mines. The stock rose rapidly from one hun-
dred pounds per share to one thousand pounds, when Robert Walpole
and others sold out, clearing one thousand per cent. In August, 1720,
the delusion was at its height, but when the crisis came thousands of
persons who had deemed themselves wealthy awoke to the fact that they
were reduced to beggary. Great distress was caused throughout England;
almost all trades were stopped, which also affected this country. King
George of England was in Hanover, Germany. Express after express
was forwarded to him, urging his instant return to England to call Par-
liament together to devise means to restore confidence. Parliament
resolved to strip the plunderers of their ill-gotten riches. In 1724 there

was collected the sum of nine millions and four hundred and seven
thousand two hundred pounds to be used to relieve the distress of those
who had suffered from the gigantic fraud ; but the distress was felt for

many years afterwards.
On account of the rapid rise in the stock of the South Sea Company

the people became insane on the subject of companies. There were
Water, Fishery, Manufacturing, and Foreign Trade Companies; also

companies for fattening hogs and importing jackasses from Spain. All

ordinary business was neglected. As money was rushed in one big flood
towards London to invest in these companies, all other business came to

a standstill.

John Law's Banking and Mississippi Scheme, or " The Com-
pany of the West," also came to grief in the memorable year of 1720,
when Neptune entered the sign Gemini, and brought terrible distress

to all parts of France. Like the South Sea Bubble in England, the
John Law's Banking Scheme was going to pay off the national debt of
France in a few years, and at a time when they could not pay one-quarter
of the interest by the collection of all the taxes.

The vision of having the sole trade of a fertile empire, with its plan-
tations, manors, cities, and busy wharves on the Mississippi in North
America—the certain product of the richest mines and mountains of
gold were blended in the French mind into one boundless promise of



jb Elements of astrology.

treasure. Ingots of gold from the mines of Louisiana were to be seen
in Paris. John Law became a Catholic, and was appointed Comptroller
of Finance in France, and had a decree made that no person or corpo-
ration should have on hand more than five hundred livres (a livre is about
a franc) in specie. All taxes were to be collected in paper, and paper
was made the legal tender in all payments.

Law's Bank became, by negotiation with the Regent, the Bank of

France, and its stock rose a thousand per cent. The new city of New
Orleans and the valley of the Mississippi inflamed the imagination of
France, and John Law's company obtained sole control of the commerce
of Louisiana and Canada. The Regent's mother wrote to a friend

"that the king's debts were all paid."
Law might have regulated at his pleasure the interest of money, the

value of stocks, the price of labor and produce. The Legislature
enacted laws which forbade certain corporations to invest money in any
thing but Mississippi stocks. All circulation of gold and silver, except
for change, was prohibited. The public enthusiasm now arose to abso-
lute frenzy, and Law's house and the street in front of it was daily

crowded. As the stock rose in value, many wary speculators (contrary
to law), foreseeing a crisis, had secretly converted their paper and shares

into gold, which they transmitted to England or Belgium. Gold and
silver becoming scarce, a general run was made on the bank; it stopped
payment, and Law was compelled to flee the country. Much of the
paper was cancelled, and the rest converted into " rentes " at an enor-
mous sacrifice.

The downfall of Law abruptly curtailed expense for Lousiana. In-
stead of large and opulent cities people could now only see unwholesome
marshes, which were the tombs of immigrants. Its name in France was
a name of disgust and terror. Years afterwards there were only two
hundred huts among the canebrakes where the city of New Orleans now
stands. The loss to the community in France was enormous. The
bank notes and stock of Law's bank, or the Bank of France, for which
the people had paid hard cash, were worthless, and they had no money
to carry on their business. The depression was felt for years afterward.

NEPTUNE IN GEMINI FROM 1888 TO 1902.

Neptune entered Gemini for the second time in the history of our
country on the 27th of May, 1888. For a parallel to the Mississippi

Company, or Law's Bank, I need only remind the reader of the Panama
scandal, which has attracted the attention of the whole civilized world
for the last few years. The effect of those scandals on France has been
in every respect similar to John Law's Bank scandal ; also the South Sea
Company in England. In all these cases numbers of people who stood
high in the community had to flee the country ; some committed
suicide, and some were expelled from Parliament both in England and
France; others suffered imprisonment and disgrace.

It must appear to the reader a remarkable coincidence that when any
special planet in its passage around the heavens comes to the same sign

it previously occupied, and which sign rules any particular country, that



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 77

history almost appears to repeat itself. At least, if we are to judge by
past history and present events, such is the case.

For instance, when we read in the history of France the account of

the breaking up of John Law's Bank and the collapsing of the Mississippi

Scheme, the trials which followed, and the uproar and recrimination in

the French Parliament at that time, if we could only change the date
and names, we might think that we were reading the history of France
in the years 1891—'92—'93. The accounts published in the papers of the
trial, conviction, and imprisonment of the Count de Lesseps and his son,

and those who were associated with them, for corruption, bribery, and
defrauding the public ; also the suicide of Renach and the running away
of Dr. Herz, the parallel is complete.

In England, in 1890 and 1891, they had almost a parallel to the
South Sea Bubble in the Argentine Republic Scheme. The Baring
Brothers, Bankers of London, suspended and came near failing on account
of their investments in that country in building railways and other im-
provements before they were really needed. Had it not been for the
timely assistance of the Rothschilds, the Bank of France, and other rich

corporations, there is no doubt but that one of the richest banking firms

in the world would have gone under, and carried scores of other banks
and business houses with them. Even as it was, it made a noted tight-

ness in the money market, which was felt all over the civilized world.
In the Argentine Republic money was so scarce for two years after-

wards that gold remained at about three hundred per cent, premium.
We are apt to smile when we read the accounts of the people in

England during the excitement of the South Sea Bubble rushing with
their annuities, from which they were certain of a safe and permanent
income, to be exchanged for shares in the South Sea Company; a com-
pany, as Shakspeare says, which had neither a *' local habitation or a
name," and that the rush was so great that the bank where the annuities

were exchanged for shares was compelled to set tables and clerks in the
street to accommodate the crowd. Yet at the last Presidential election,

on Nov. 8, 1892, a large majority of the working classes in the United
States were equally anxious to reduce their own wages over fifty per
cent, by voting that the " Federal Government has no constitutional

power to impose and collect tariff duties except for the purpose of reve-
nue only."* Not only did they vote to reduce their own wages, but also

to throw a large number of employees of workshops and factories out of

The ''New York Sun'* of August 16, 189 3, in an editorial, said:—

"Last year, in a season of general prosperity such as never blessed a nation living in the light

of civilization, the prevailing industrial system was condemned with almost a revolutionary show
of disapproval. All visible facts argued for a popular verdict directly opposed to that deliberately

recorded by the immense majority. . . . Either the American public are a set of summer fools

unparalleled in fairy tales, or the election a year ago was the most colossal uprising of a populace
socialistically inflamed, against the representatives of prosperity, against the alleged robbery of the
tariff that the world has seen. . . . The people of the United States went crazy on the 8th of No-
vember, 1892."

The above paragraph shows emphatically that there was some super-mundane influence in

operation, similar to the Salem witchcraft. That workingmen should cast their votes to take the
bread out of their own, their wives' and their children's mouths, shows that there has been an
epidemic of insanity; and, as the ancients said, "whom the gods wish to destroy they first make
mad."



"

7$ ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

employment altogether ; which will so overcrowd the farm hands and
labor market, as to compel those laborers to work for a mere pittance,

or remain unemployed and starving.

Before the election last November it was asserted that the high tariff

and the McKinley Bill made the hard times; since the election it has
been the Sherman Silver Purchase Bill that is to blame for so many banks
failing and the depression and stagnation in trade and business.

It may appear singular to some of my '
readers that the four ' schemes

that have produced such widespread distress in France and England were
all true Americans. It is true that the first was represented as being
in South America ; the second in what is now known as New Orleans,
Louisiana; the third in Central America, and the last again in South
America.

That some super-mundane influence has been in operation of late in

the United States, which has in some way affected the mentality of man,
I think cannot be denied. The stagnation in business is phenomenal,
and the failing of banks and the breaking up of business houses, which
first commenced in Australia, and which is now spreading over almost
all parts of the United States, is certainly remarkable.

Things will continue to remain in this unsettled condition, or at least

no permanent improvement in business, until Neptune leaves the ruling

sign of this country.
The stagnation of business and the tightness of the money market is

in some respects equal to the panic of 1873, when the United States

Government demonetized silver, which had a marked effect in depressing

business throughout this country and other parts of the world.
On September 16, 1893, Neptune (before turning retrograde) stands

at 130 34' in Gemini. On July 28, 1893, the President of the United
States called an extraordinary session of Congress to meet on the 7th of
August, the hottest part of summer, to devise means to relieve the stag-

nation of business and the panic in the money market, which has caused
so many failures of banks and business houses.

As Neptune gets further into Gemini (after it turns direct) things will

grow worse instead of better, more especially during the first four months
of 1894, when Saturn will be in square to Mercury's place in the horoscope
of this country. I look for more business houses and banks failing than
there have been during the spring and summer of 1893. From May 1,

1894, to April, 1895, Jupiter will be in the ruling sign of the United
'•States. Business then will be better than it has been for several years

past. Afterwards things will continue unsettled until Neptune arrives to

280 of Gemini.
In the year 1900 Saturn will come to the opposition of Neptune in

Gemini. Then I look for another epoch in the history of the United
States, in many respects similar to the one from 1861 to 1865. In the
latter part of this volume I shall treat of the events of the United States.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 79

THE SIGN TAURUS RULES IRELAND.
In the forepart of this volume I mentioned that Aries rules England

and that Ireland was ruled by Taurus ; and whenever there has been
an evil planet in that sign, or in evil aspect to it, Ireland has suffered

more or less. The planet Neptune entered the sign Taurus in the spring
of 1875, but did not get far into the sign until the summer of 1876,
when the disturbances commenced to be felt in Ireland. In 1879 it

arrived at 10 , when the Irish Patriots organized the Land League, and
riots and evictions multiplied. But the most serious boycotts occurred in

that country when Saturn also entered Taurus in 1881, when Charles
Stewart Parnell, John Dillon, and hundreds of other prominent Irishmen
were arrested, and trial by jury was practically abolished. But in the
spring of 1882 Saturn and Neptune began to approach each other, and
in May they both formed a conjunction with the Sun and Mars in the
ruling sign of Ireland.

At that time I was expecting some serious commotion or riots to
occur in Ireland, when Lord Frederick Cavendish was murdered along
with his Secretary, Thomas Henry Burke, on May 6th, 1882. Saturn
continued to afflict Ireland's ruling sign until May 21, 1883, but Neptune
did not leave that sign until the spring of 1888, when there was more
peace and fewer evictions and imprisonments than there had been for

many years.

Is it a coincidence that now while there are no evil planets in the
sign Taurus, but on the contrary the benevolent planet Jupiter is there,

that Ireland is more peaceful than it has been for many years, and the
British Parliament appears likely to grant it its own government, now
while Jupiter is in its ruling sign ? This is certainly very singular.

Jupiter entered Taurus in the early part of this year, and will remain in

that sign (except during the month of September) until April, 1894.
After Jupiter gets out of Taurus and when Saturn and Uranus are

both in the sign Scorpio, in opposition to Taurus, I look for serious

disturbance and riots in old Ireland. The years 1895, 1896, and 1897
will be particularly unfortunate years for that country. No doubt we
shall have another exhibition of the Kilkenny cats in that island, which
will continue until both Saturn and Uranus get out of the sign Scorpio,
or from an opposition of Taurus.

THE PERSONAL DESCRIPTION OF A MAN OR WOMAN
DETERMINED BY THE PLANETS.

Persons can almost always be described in their personal appearance,
even without the Astrologer seeing them, by the sign on the eastern

horizon and the planet having the most influence in the sign rising at

their time of birth. This may be discredited by a number of my read-
ers, as they will say that a child has always a similar personal appearance
to either his father or mother, and that the signs and planets have nothing
to do with it.

If a child has a sign rising at the time of its birth which will describe
a person like its father or its mother, then, as the physiologists say, " it



80 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

takes after its father, or is like its mother." But if the sign rising at
birth describes a person different to its father or mother, then the child
does not resemble them, or, in other words, it does not take after them.

I have known this remarkable coincidence to be verified in my own
practice in thousands of instances, and without any exception, and all

other Astrologers have had a similar experience. For instance, if

a child is born with what Astrologers term a " tall sign " rising, and
the planet having the most influence in that sign be in another tall

sign, that child so born will be tall, no matter how short both its parents
are. It is the same if a child is born under what is termed " short,"
or "stout," or " slender signs." The child always follows in its per-
sonal appearance the description of the sign and the planets it is born
under, and when the man or woman does not coincide in personal
appearance with the sign rising and the planet having the most influence

in that sign, we always know the time of birth given is not correct.

I could give thousands of instances to verify this statement, but will

give only one, which occurred in my own family.

My brother's son, who resides in England, came on a visit to New
York, and he requested me to cast his horoscope. He stated that his

mother had told him that he was born on a given date at 1 2 o'clock at

night. After the map of the heavens was erected for the time given I

told him it was impossible for him to have been born at that time, as

the sign rising would describe a tall, slender, light-compiexioned person,
and he was short, thick-set, and dark. On his return to England he
asked his father for the exact time he was born. His father stated that

it was at 6 o'clock in the evening. The son wrote to me, giving his

corrected time of birth, and wishing me to write his horoscope. After
the figure was set I wrote back that the time he had sent was also wrong,
as it did not describe him. The son then visited his sister, who resided
in another part of England, and who had the family Bible. He found
it written in the Bible that he was born at 7:10 p. m. The sign then
rising and the position of the planets described him correctly in every
particular.

I might go on filling a large volume with such facts were it necessary,

and yet people who have no knowledge of the science of Astrology tell

us that there is nothing in it, and some of them have repeated the false-

hood so often that they have come to believe it themselves.

THE AFFLICTING PLANETS DESCRIBE THE ASSASSINS
IN REMARKABLE MURDER CASES.

There is another remarkable coincidence which I have noticed, ana
for a long time : that is, that when anything occurs in mundane affairs

which attract widespread attention, such as murders or any serious acci-

dents, there is always a remarkable configuration of the heavenly bodies.

Generally, if not always, the persons having committed such murders,
etc., can be described by the afflicting planets.

I have examined a number of charts of the heavens for the time that

a remarkable murder or other crime has been committed, and I have



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 8l

often been astonished at the striking configuration of the planetary system
at those times, and how clearly the heavens portrayed the person or

persons who committed the deed.
Possibly a few horoscopes of some of the assassinations or murders

which have occurred in the last twenty or thirty years may not be unin-
teresting to the general reader. They certainly will be interesting and
instructive to the student of Astrology, if he examines them carefully.

The first I shall notice is the assassination of President Lincoln.

^r^

HfH
The above chart of the heavens represents the position of the planets

at the time of the assassination of President Lincoln on April 14, 1865,
at 9:30 p. m., Washington time. If the Astrological student inspects the
position of the planets in the above figure, he will see that the afflicting

planets are Mars in Cancer in the 8th house (the house of death), in

exact square to Neptune, on the cusp of the 5th house, in Aries. Also,
he will notice Saturn in the 1 ith house in opposition to the Sun, also in

the 5th house in Aries.

The assassin is indicated by Mars in Cancer and Saturn in Libra.
The books say "

: It describes a person above the medium height, slender,

with comely dark hair, oval face, prominent nose, large eyes, dark but

clear complexion, and good looking ; one opinionated of himself, prodi-

gal of expense. Also, Saturn in opposition to the Sun, if Saturn be
significator ; the person is ambitious, overbearing, hating control, sub-

ject to the frowns of people in power, and often meets a violent death."

It may appear singular that Saturn in the house of friends indicated

that a false friend did the deed : also the 5th house (where the

President's planet was situated) indicates a theater or some place of
amusement, etc. The Sun and Neptune are both in Aries (which sign

rules the head), indicating that the President would be injured or



82 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

wounded in the head. [President Lincoln was shot in the head in a
theatre.'] The close square of Mars to Neptune from the 8th house
(the house of death), indicated certain death, and that the assassin shot
with the deliberate intention to kill.

JXH-

The above map of the heavens was set for the time President Garfield
was shot by Charles Jules Guiteau, July 2, 1881, at 9:25 a. m., Wash-
ington time.

The student will notice that the Moon and Uranus are in the
ascendant, also that Neptune in Taurus is in mundane square to the
Moon, and the evil planet Saturn in conjunction with Mars, in mundane
square to Uranus. The assassin is indicated by Neptune and Saturn.

The books say "
: Saturn in Taurus describes a person of middle

stature, but in no wise comely, one who has an awkward appearance,
not well made, rough in carriage, sordid, and vicious. Saturn in con-
junction with Mars denotes a rash, turbulent disposition, one who is

generally unfortunate, engaged in some calling of a low order, and fre-

quently ends his days in prison."*
The Moon and Uranus in Virgo, in the ascendant denotes where

President Garfield would be injured or wounded, as Virgo governs the
lower part of the body and the intestines.

Saturn and Neptune in the 9th house (the house of long journeys),
indicates that Garfield was on a journey. [N. B. The President was
just going to the train, intending to travel with his wife and family,

whom he expected to meet in New York, throughout the greater part of
the Eastern States.]

* No doubt Mars in conjunction with Saturn caused Mr. Guiteau to be mucli lighter in com-
plexion and thinner than what is regularly described as a Saturn in Taurus person.



EI.F.MFNTS OF ASTROLOGY. 83

This chart of the heavens was calculated for the time when Lord
Frederick Cavendish and Mr. Thomas Henry Burke were found assassi-

nated in Phoenix Park, Dublin, Ireland, on May 6, 1882, at 7:10 p. m.,
Dublin time.

The assassins are indicated by the Sun, Saturn, Neptune, and Mer-
cury, all in conjunction in Taurus in the 7th house, in close opposition
to the ascendant. Of the four assassins indicated by the four planets,
the two principal ones are described by Saturn and the Sun in close

conjunction in Taurus.
The books in desribing a person indicated by Saturn in Taurus, say :

" He is of medium stature, rather heavy, with a rough carriage, dark
hair, one who is awkward, with a lumpish appearance, not well made,
sordid and vicious." Saturn in conjunction with the Sun indicates losses

by men in power, who persecute him, and confine him within the walls
of a prison for some contempt of law" He is seldom healthy, or
of long life.

The other principal assassin is described by the Sun in Taurus in

conjunction with Saturn. The books say : "It denotes a short, well set,

rather ugly person, with a dusky complexion, brown hair, large, broad
face, wide mouth, and great nose. A confident, proud, and bold man,
fond of opposition, proud of his physical strength, and generally
vicious.

The Sun in conjunction with Saturn denotes " a disagreeable, deceit-

ful, unmerciful, unfortunate man, who loses his property by some specu-
lation, which in the end often brings him to ruin particularly if he

;

has anything to do with the government or people connected with the
State."

The other two assassins are indicated by the two planets, Neptune



^4 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

and Mercury in Taurus, but it is not worth while to give their descrip-
tion in these pages.

It may appear singular that the parts of the murdered men's bodies
injured, and the kind of death should be described by the heavens. The
books say " that Taurus rules the throat," and these murdered men met
their death by having their throats cut; also, they were wounded in the
upper part of the chest; and their planets being in fixed signs in angles

shows that they were all near home, or not on a long journey, as in

President Garfield's case.

X/&

This figure of the heavens shows the position of the planets when
Carrie Brown (Old Shakespeare) was found murdered in a hotel in the

lower part of the city of New York, on the morning of April 24, 1891,
at 9 o'clock.

The afflicting planet is Saturn (there was only one murderer in this

case) in Virgo, just leaving the cusp of the 4th house, retrograde, and
in opposition to Jupiter on the cusp of the 10th house.

The books say "
: Saturn in Virgo describes a rather tall person with

a spare body and swarthy complexion, dark brown or black hair, and a

sordid countenance ; one unfortunate, inclined to melancholy, and re' ain-

ing anger.

As Saturn is retrograde, and just going into the 3d house (the house
of journeys), it is evident that the murderer went away on a journey
immediately after committing the deed, and did not return.

Saturn in Virgo indicates the parts injured, that is the abdomen and
lower part of the body.

The Moon in Scorpio, in the 5th house, in opposition to the Sun,

in aspect to Saturn and Jupiter, indicates that both the murderer and
victim belonged to the degraded class; also the kind of place the murder



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 8$

was committed in is indicated by the Moon in Scorpio in the 5th house;
that is, a place of low resort, also a public house or a place of amuse-
ment.

The above chart shows the position of the signs and planets when the
bodies of Mr. Andrew

J. Borden and his wife were discovered on the 4th
of August, 1892, at 11:13 a. M.,in Fall River, Mass.

The afflicting planet in this figure is Mars in Aquarius in the 4th house,
in close opposition to the Sun in Leo in the mid-heaven. It also shows
beyond a question that it was a man, and not a woman, who did the
deed, and he had no one with him.

Mars in Aquarius, the books say, "gives a well composed body,
rather corpulent, inclined to be tall, although frequently not above the
medium height [I should say about 5 feet 8 inches], with a fair or san-
guine complexion, sandy or auburn hair, mustache is yellow or sandy,
round face, high forehead, quick, sparkling eyes, and has a straight and
proud walk." Mars, in opposition to the Sun, "denotes a man of
great ambition and violence, but his fortune is too evil to allow him
to succeed."

Mars in the 4th house in a fixed sign, indicates that the Bordens were
murdered in their own house, also that the muderer did not go away
ofF,as in the case of Carrie Brown's murderer. Therefore the murderer
in this case is still in the neighborhood of the murder, or not very far

away.*

* The student of Astrology will notice that in all these five charts of thi heavens, the afflicting

planets are masculine and evil, which denotes that they were men who committed the murders.
The last chart is more marked in this respect than any of the others 1'he reason that the man
got away unnoticed and unsuspected, is also indicated by the planet Jupiter in the 7th house, and
felling cadent, and the Moon in the 3d house leaving a trine or good aspect of it.



86 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

The parts of the bodies injured are indicated by Sun in Leo, which
rules the heart and upper parts of the body, and Mars rules all sharp
tools or instruments.

I have been very particular in giving the description of the murderer
in this case, and if this publication has any effect in leading to his

conviction and clearing an innocent woman from even suspicion, I shall

deem myself amply rewarded for my labor.

I was interested in reading the trial of Lizzie Borden, and could not
help thinking that Mr. Knowlton, the prosecuting attorney, ought to
have lived two hundred years ago. He would then have won everlast-

ing fame as a persecutor of witches, and so overshadowed Cotton Mather
that the reverend gentleman would have dropped into obscurity.

When reading Mr. Knowlton's speech, describing how Lizzie Borden
had first killed her step-mother, and then her father, I could not help
believing that had he been addressing a Salem jury two hundred years

ago, he could in that case have easily convinced them that the devil

stood between her and her victims and caught every drop of blood,
so that not a particle could reach her; and that it was his Satanic Maj-
esty who instigated her to the deed, and gave her the strength of a

giant to accomplish the fiendish work. In those days, all warrants for

the arrest of criminals read : "That the person had committed the deed
with malice aforethought, being instigated thereto by the devil."

But in these days the only way to convict an innocent person is to
get some noted expert to show a chemical test before the jury, of which
they are entirely ignorant (the more ignorant the better), and which
may be proven entirely erroneous in the very next trial.

As Mr. Knowlton was so anxious to convict Miss Borden, if he
had only sent for a Philadelphia doctor to bring his microscope to ex-
amine that small drop of menstrual blood that was found on her
skirts (not half the size of a pin head), and that doctor had also

stated before the jury, after examining it, that he would stake his life
that the small particle of dried blood was part of the identical blood
found saturating the floor and the bodies of the. murdered victims, then
he could have easily convinced the jury of her guilt, and had the
pleasure of seeing an innocent woman swinging from the gallows.

One would think the affliction bad enough when any person, either

man or woman, has a relative assassinated in their own house, and
without a moment's notice, and also come near being murdered them-
selves, without being dragged off to prison and put to the trouble and
expense of a trial, and have to fight for their life against all the power and
influence of the State, moving heaven and earth for their conviction and
execution.

Another case of persecution occurred in the city of New York, in

the supposed murderer of Carrie Brown. It has since been shown,
almost beyond a question, that nearly all those vile women perjured
themselves, yet that poor man, a stranger in a strange country, is unpar-
doned and undischarged. The last I read about him, he had become
insane, and was confined in an insane asylum.



3 7

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.
Astrology may be divided into five divisions-or parts, and each

can be learned separately, similar to arithmetic. In arithmetic

we first learn numeration, then addition, afterwards subtraction,

multiplication and division, so Astrology can be divided into parts

and learned in like manner. First the houses and their qualities,

or what belongs to them. Second the aspects of the houses, or
their relations to each other. Third the signs of the Zodiac and
their relations or aspects to each other and their significations. Fourth
the nature of the planets, their motions, revolutions and their sig-

nifications, and their aspects to each other. Fifth their strength in

the various houses and in the different signs of the Zodiac. It is easiest

to learn one part thoroughly and understand it before the learner

commences another part. It is impossible for a learner to get the proof
of Astrology until he has become somewhat advanced in its study, but
when he is advanced the proof comes of itself. I have never known
a person who has learned Astrology that was not a thorough believer

in it, the same as a person who has learned arithmetic is a firm believer,

no matter how skeptical he may have been before he had learned it.

The science of Astrology is unique, and there is no science to be com-
pared with it in one respect, that is, that all those persons who are the

most ignorant of it appear to have some kind of intuition that tells

them that it is utterly false or wicked, but those persons who have
studied the subject always speak of it as a heavenly science or truth itself,

and there is no other science that I know of that is like it in that par-

ticular. In short, it generally happens that the persons who are the

most ignorant of any one of the other sciences have generally the

greatest confidence in it and its professors. For instance, a person who
is ignorant of chemistry imagines that the chemist can anyalyze and know
all about the elements of every material substance, and believes that the

chemist can recombine or put together all the elements of matter so as to

form any chemical substance that he chooses, and so on of any other
natural science. But when he comes to study chemistry he finds that

he has had altogether wrong notions on the subject.

RUDIMENTS OF THE SCIENCE.
The circle of the heavens is divided into four equal parts, and each

part is composed of 90 degrees, making in all 360 degrees in the circle.

The commencement of each one of these quarters is called an angle.

These angles are the Eastern horizon, or where the sun rises ; the West-
ern horizon or where it sets ; the mid-heaven, or where the sun is at

mid-day, and opposite the mid-heaven is called the Nadir, and it is that

point directly under where we stand. Each of these quarters is

divided into three parts of 30 degrees, which are called houses, and
there are 12 houses in all.

The ancient writers named them mansions. These 1 2 houses are

counted from the Eastern horizon, and they continue round the circle



88 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

from the East to the North, then to the West and so on round to the
East again, or in the opposite direction to the rising, culminating or
setting of the sun. The first house commences at the Eastern horizon
and extends 30 degrees below ; the second house commences at that

point, or at the end of 30 degrees, and extends to 60 degrees below the

horizon ; the third house commences 60 below the horizon and ends at

the fourth house, or that point opposite the mid-heaven ; the fourth

house extends 30 degrees to the next, or the fifth house, which extends

30 degrees from that point to the sixth house, which extends to the

western horizon or seventh house, which commences at the Western
horizon and extends 30 degrees to the eighth house, which commences
30 degrees from the Western horizon and extends 30 degrees to the

ninth house ; and the ninth begins at 60 degrees from the Western
horizon and extends to the tenth house or meridian, which commences
at the mid-heaven and that extends to 30 degrees from the mid-heaven
to the eleventh house ; the eleventh house commences 30 degrees from
the mid-heaven and extends 60 degrees or to the twelfth house ; and
the twelfth house commences at that point and terminates at the com-
mencement of the first house, making in all 12 houses round the

heavens, as shown by the accompanying figure.

The reader will see by the number? in the chart that the houses are

reckoned in the contrary direction to the rising, culminating and setting

of the sun. The houses are divided into good and evil. The good
houses, counting them in the order of their strength or importance, are

the first, tenth, second, seventh, fourth, ninth, eleventh, fifth and
third. The evil houses, counting them in the order of their

strength for evil, are the eighth, twelfth and sixth. These houses



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 89

are termed evil because they have no aspects to the ascendant or first

house. When a planet is in an evil house, and a person is born under
that planet, that person is weak, or he is subject to misfortunes, sickness

or trouble of some kind ; but when a planet is in a good house and
strong and unafrlicted, it is said to be well dignified and causes the per-
son born under it to be fortunate, if other good influence concur. The
house that is the most fortunate or of the highest importance is the
first ; the next in importance is the tenth house, and then follows the
second, and so on.

The heavens, besides being divided into what are termed four quar-
ters and then into houses, are also divided into what are termed aspects,

and those aspects are called mundane aspects to distinguish them from
what are termed zodiacal aspects, which I shall speak of further on.

These aspects are certain geometrical figures and are reckoned by
the number of degrees from one point to another point. For instance,

the angles are 90 degrees apart and are said to be in square aspect to

each other. The heavens are also divided into three equal parts,

termed triplicity, which are 1 20 degrees apart and are in trine aspect to

each other. When the heavens are divided into six equal parts or 60
degrees, that is termed a sextile aspect. But that part of the heavens
which is opposite to the other is called an opposition. The trine

aspects are said to be the strongest for good, the sextile are the second
in strength for good, the semi-sextile or 30 degrees are the least strong
for good ; the most evil aspect is the opposition, and next to that the

square, and then what is termed a conjunction, or when two evil planets

are of the same longitude that is said to be an evil aspect with
evil planets, and a fortunate aspect with good planets. The ascendant
is in square to the mid-heaven and the fourth house and in opposition to

the* seventh house. The ascendant is in trine to the ninth and the fifth,

and is in sextile to the eleventh and the third houses, therefore when
any planet is in the seventh it is in opposition to the ascendant ; in the
mid-heaven and the fourth it is in square to the ascendant, or in the
ninth or fifth it is in trine to the ascendant, in the third or eleventh it

is in sextile to the ascendant, and so on of the other houses.

These aspects must be thoroughly committed to memory, and also

the houses and their significations, or what they are said to govern.
The houses are also divided into angles, succeedent and cadent.

The angles said to be the strongest are the first, tenth, seventh and
fourth ; the succeedent are the next in strength, that is, the second,
fifth, eighth and eleventh. The cadent houses are the weakest of all

;

they are the third, sixth, ninth and twelfth yet when a planet is in
;

the ninth house it is said to be sometimes quite strong, provided it is

not too near what is termed the eighth house ; if it is near the mid-
heaven all the better.

THE SIGNIFICATION OF THE TWELVE HOUSES.
The first house is said to rule the life and health of the native , the

second his money or personal property ; the third his relatives and short
journeys ; fourth, the father and landed property ; fifth, children and



; ; ;

90 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

pleasure; sixth, sickness and small cattle; seventh, marriage and public
enemies ; eighth, death, legacies and wills ; ninth, religion, law suits,

and long journeys; tenth, mother, business and honor; eleventh,
friends, hopes, etc.; twelfth, secret enemies and imprisonment.

One old author has summed up the twelve houses in the following
verses ; it would be well for the reader to commit them to memory :

First house shows life, the second wealth doth give,';

The third, brethren, fourth, how parents live

Issue the' fifth, sixth diseases bring;
The seventh wedlock, and the eighth death's sting;
The ninth declares man's pious faith and zeal
The tenth the glory of a common weal
Our friendship from the eleventh house is known
And sorrow from the twelfth to every one.

A student must be well informed in the houses and their significa-

tions before he ventures to go any further in the study of this science,

therefore I give below the main significations of all the houses.

The following more important parts of this volume will be printed
in larger typey and each paragraph numberedfor easy reference.

THE NATURE, QUALITY AND DESCRIPTION OF THE
TWELVE HOUSES.*

1 First House.—This house signifies the life of man, stature, com-
plexion and shape of the querent or native, because when the sun or

any other star comes to that point they arrive and become visible in our

horizon. It rules the head or face. If Mars be afflicted in this house in a

nativitv or question it gives, one time or other, a wound or scar in the

face or head. If Saturn or dragon's head be there, it gives a very

coarse countenance and slovenly behavior. Of colors it has the white,

that is if a planet be in this house which has signification of white, the

complexion of the party will be very pale, white and wan. His apparel

also will much incline to a white grey or very light color. So for cattle,

when their significators or planets are found in this house, it denotes

them to be of alight color. This house is masculine.

2 Second House.—Signifies the neck and throat, the wealth, poverty,

movable goods or money of the native or querent ; loss or gain by com-
modity or money lent, profit or loss, or damage in law suits. It signi-

fies the querent's monied friends or assistance. Of color it denotes

green. Jupiter and Venus rejoice in this house, and if Jupiter or Venus

be strong, either in a question or nativity, it makes a man rich and for-

tunate ; but Saturn and Mars weak in this house, and the dragon's tail

there, makes him a beggar, or at least he wastes his estate,^ though it was

never so considerable, by riotous living, fires, or losses. It is feminine.

* The significations of the twelve houses given here, answers both for nativities and
horary questions.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 91

3 Third House.—Rules the chest and arms and gives judgment con-
cerning brothers, sisters, cousins, or kindred neighbors, short or inland

journeys of the querent ; also about letters, rumors and news, messen-

gers, etc., and removing from place to place. Of colors it has the red,

yellow and sorrel. The planet Mars is not so fortunate in this house as

some think, unless he be joined to Saturn by good aspect. This house

is the joy of the Moon ; for if she be posited therein, especially in a

movable sign, it is an argument of much travel to the native and that to

advantage, too, if she be there strong and friendly beheld by the for-

tunes. But if afflicted there without reception, the native will be

always trudging and trotting about to little purpose ; and if the dragon's

tail happens to be there, he will be cheated if not robbed and abused in

his travels. It is a masculine house.

4 Fourth House.—Signifies old people in general, the native or

querent's father, lands, houses, tenements and inheritances ; tilling the

earth, hidden treasure and mines of all kinds ; the end or conclusion of

any design, project or undertaking; ancient dwellings, gardens, orchards,

fields and pastures ; the quality and nature of the ground the querent

is about to purchase ; whether they are vineyards, corn-fields or chases,

or whether the ground be barren, strong or woody. It is the north

angle and rules in man's body the breast and the lungs and is femi-

nine. Color, red or yellow. The Sun and Venus, if in this house in

good aspects with the lord of the ascendant, or second house, the

native or querent will inherit or have an estate fall to him from or by
means of his father, especially if the lord of the eighth house behold

either of them with a benevolent aspect.

5 Fifth House.—This house rules the stomach and liver, and we
give judgment concerning children, ambassadors, of the state of a woman
with child, whether it be male or female, as also of banquets, plays,

games, dancing, music, pleasure, delight and merriment ; of the health

or sickness of the querent's son or daughter; it also denotes ale-houses,

taverns, messengers and agents, for merchants or others trading at sea;

the wealth or poverty of the father. Of color, black, dark or honey.

Leo and Venus joy in this house, because Venus is the fifth planet and

Leo is the fifth sign of the Zodiac. Saturn is wholly unfortunate when
it is in this house ; all authors agree that Saturn or Mars in the

fifth house never fails to give the native or querent cruel, stubborn,

obstinate, rebellious and disobedient children ; and also unfortunate in

speculation. It is masculine.

6 Sixth House.—Governs the abdomen ; and men and maidser-

vants, day laborers, galley slaves, all manner of small cattle, such as

deer, goats, hares, conies, loss or gain from them, the sickness of the

querent or native, whether long or short, curable or not ; likewise



gt ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

farmers, tenants, and it also denotes uncles and aunts by the father's

side. This house, having no aspect to the ascendant, is therefore called

mala fortuna, the house of evil fortune yet if Jupiter, Venus, dragon's
;

head or Mercury be well placed and aspected in this house, and Mars
behold Mercury with a friendly ray, it makes the native or querent an

able physician if he undertakes that employment. Of colors it governs
black. Mars rejoices in this house, but the chief consignificators are

Virgo and Mercury. It is a feminine house.

7 Seventh House.—Rules the kidneys and the lower part of the back,

and gives judgment concerning marriage ; it describes the person

inquired after, whether it be man or woman ; all sorts of love ques-

tions or public enemies ; all men whom we have common dealings

with, all quarrels, lawsuits and duels. In Astrology and medicine it

signifies the artist himself; it also signifies grandfathers, thieves and
theft, the persons stealing, whether man or woman ; wives or sweet-

hearts, their shapes, descriptions, and conditions, whether nobly or igno-

bly born ; fugitives or runaways or outlawed men. Saturn or Mars in

the seventh or the Moon ill-placed in this house shows very unfortunate

marriages. Of color, dark or black. This is the angle of the west and
is masculine.

8 Eighth House.—Signifies death, sadness and sometimes riches never

thought of; wills, deeds and legacies of the dead, the estate of the

debtor, of querent's wife, or whom he deals with, portion of the maid,

whether much or little, easy to be got or with difficulty. In duels it

denotes the adversary's second, in lawsuits the defendant's friends, what
kind of death a man may die. It signifies fear and anguish of mind,

and the heir to the querent ; it rules the privy parts. Of colors, green

and black. Of diseases, the piles, stone, strangury, poisons, etc. Femi-

nine house.

9 Ninth House Signifies religion, learning, books, art and science
;

judgment is given of voyages and long journeys by sea or land; clergy-

men in general, as bishops and inferior ministers ; dreams and visions,

news or letters from foreign parts, the kindred of the husband, wife or

sweetheart. Of colors it has the green and white, of man's body the

hips and thighs. If Jupiter be herein well placed it naturally signifies a

devout man, or one modestly given ; the dragon's tail, Mars or Saturn

are very unfortunate in this house and make a man an agnostic or infi-

del, and also unfortunate as a minister, lawyer or in law suits. It is

masculine.

io Tenth House.—Personates kings and princes, dukes, earls, judges,

commanders-in-chief in armies and towns, all sorts of officers in author-

ity, mother of the querent, honors, preferment, dignity, office, the pro-



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 93

fession or trade any one uses ; it signifies kingdoms, countries, empires,

dukedoms. Colors, red and white. It rules the knees and hams. Con-
figurators of this house are Capricorn and Mars; it is called the mid-
heaven and is feminine. Jupiter or the Sun well placed in this house

gives great honor to the native or querent, but Saturn, Mars or dragon's

tail usually denies honor to persons and little success in their employ-
ment or calling.

ir Eleventh House.— From this house we acquire judgment concern-
ing friendship and friends, their qualities and conditions, the querent's or

native's hopes, a harbor or relief to voyagers, the assistance of princes,

their money and allies; it signifies the exchequer, the king's council,

ammunition and soldiers. In a commonwealth, governed by a few

nobles and commons, it shows their assistance in council, as in New
York the tenth house denotes the mayor, the eleventh the common
council, the ascendant or first house the generality of the commoners of

the city. Of members it rules the legs to the ankles. Of color it rules

saffron or yellow. Aquarius and the Sun are cosignificators of this

house. Jupiter in this house gives good and faithful friends. And it is

as strong in this house as in either of its signs, ( 4 or X ) in the other

houses. It is a masculine house.

12 Twelfth House.— It has signification of private enemies and evil

tongues, as also great cattle, as horses, cows or oxen. It also signifies

sorrow or tribulation, prisons, imprisonment, jails and jailers, treason

and all manner of villainy, chronic diseases, with all other torments

and afflictions. It is the house of self undoing, for if the lord of the

ascendant be afflicted in this house, it denotes the querent will be the

occasion of his own misfortunes. It has for cosignificators Pisces and
Venus. Saturn does much joy in this house, for naturally. Saturn is

author of mischief. It rules in man's body, the feet. Of colors it rules

green, and is a feminine house.

Before the reader proceeds any further he ought to get the twelve
houses and their significations committed to memory, and should
commence learning the first house and then the second house, and so on
until he knows them all, and can repeat the houses and their significa-

tions from memory. He should also learn to be able to change the
ascendant, either in his own horoscope or any other person's horoscope.
For instance in the chart of the native his father's ascendant
is the fourth house, and then the father's second house, or the
house connected with his father's money matters is the fifth

house, the sixth is his father's brother or his neighbors; the
seventh house, his land or property ; the eighth house is his father's

children ; the ninth house is his father's sickness ; the tenth
house is his father's wife or his own mother, or his public enemies; the



94 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

eleventh house is his father's house of death ; the twelfth house is his

father's house of long journeys, religion or lawsuits, The first house /s

his father's house of business or honor ; the second house is his fathers
house of friends ; and the third house is his father's house of secret ene-
mies, imprisonment, and so on. He also takes the seventh house for the
first house of his wife or lover, etc.; in like manner the tenth house is

the first house for his mother, and then the eleventh house would be
the house of her money or movable property, etc., and so on all round
the heavens. The student must get "these houses and their signifi-

cations thoroughly committed to memory. He must be able when
any question whatever comes up to refer it to its proper house without
any hesitation and not have to guess at it, and unless he learns the
houses thoroughly he will never make a good Astrologer. He must
learn them the same as he ought to learn his multiplication table, and
never mind being laughed at by persons who are ignorant of Astrology.
He must be able to treat them as John Foster advised persons who
wanted to learn " Decision of Character " Mr. Foster advised his stu-

dents to reply in this manner "
: You will laugh or smile, will you

;

much good may it do you. I do not care if the whole neighborhood
laugh in a chorus ; of course I should be sorry to see such a number of
fools altogether, but glad to think that you do not consider me one of

your number. What should I think of my science if it required the
aid of vain and shallow minds who cannot understand it, or what should
I think of myself if I should shrink at your sneers?" After you have
once mastered thoroughly the science of Astrology, you will not laugh
at those persons who are ignorant of that science—you will simply pity

them.

The reader ought to bear in mind that the houses should always be
learned first, as they are the foundation of Astrology, and like other
foundations they never change but always remain fixed in their various
places in the heavens, only so far as we may change them, as the fourth
house being the first house for the father ; the seventh house being the
first house for the wife ; and the tenth house being the first house for

the mother, and so on. After the student has thoroughly learned the

houses, he then proceeds to learn the twelve signs of the Zodiac,
namely : Aries SP, Taurus 8 , Gemini n, Cancer ££, Leo £\, Virgo TT£,

Libra =2=, Scorpio 1U, Sagittary $ , Capricorn Y3, Aquarius *$?, and
Pisces )£•

The signs are constantly changing their position in the heavens,
and do not remain fixed like the houses, one sign rises on the average
every two hours, as there are twelve signs in the Zodiac and twenty-
four hours in the day, the earth turns on its axis once in twenty-four
hours, each sign passes the midheaven every day. Like the houses
they are divided into four different parts, and the first is wh?t is termed
the cardinal or movable signs, and those are Aries, Cancer, Libra and
Capricorn ; the second are fixed signs, and are Taurus, Leo, Scorpio,
and Aquarius ; the next are common signs, that is, neither movable,
cardinal nor fixed, but between the two ; they are Gemini, Virgo,



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 95

Sagittary and Pisces. For instance, if a person is born with a fixed

sign on the ascendant, or his planet in a fixed sign, that person is apt to

be more fixed and determined in his natural disposition and cannot be

easily changed, but if a person is born with a movable sign on the

ascendant, or his planet is in a movable sign, then he is apt to change
and be very changeable and likely to move around a great deal.

The movable signs, like the cardinal houses, are in square aspect to each
other. The fixed signs are also in square aspect, and the com-
mon signs are in square aspect to each other. The signs are

also divided into what are termed the trigons or triplicities

they are called the fiery triplicity, the earthy triplicity, the

airy triplicity, and the watery triplicity. These triplicities are in trine

or good aspect to each other. The signs of the fiery triplicity are

Aries, Leo and Sagittary ; the earthy triplicity is Taurns, Virgo and
Capricorn ; the airy triplicity is Gemini, Libra and Aquarius ; the

watery triplicity is Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces. The fiery triplicity is

termed hot and dry ; that is, when a person is born with a sign of the

fiery triplicity on the ascendant, and his planet is also in a fiery sign, that

person is more liable to fevers and fires, or suffers from heat, and is gen-
erally what is called hot-tempered or quick and active. The earthy
triplicity is cold and dry, and persons born under the earthy
triplicity are of a cold and dry nature. When born under the

airy triplicity they are hot and moist and generally good natured and
kind-hearted. The watery triplicity causes persons to be phlegmatic
and generally fond of the water or liquids, and are often successful con-
nected with both, provided their planets are not afflicted in watery
signs.

They are also divided into the Eastern, Southern, Western and
Northern signs. The Eastern signs are the fiery triplicity and are
Aries, Leo and Sagittary ; the Southern signs or earthy triplicity are
Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn ; the Western signs or airy triplicities are

Gemini, Libra and Aquarius, and the Northern signs or watery triplicity

are Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces. The signs are also divided into fruit-

ful and barren signs. The fruitful signs are Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces,

and the barren signs are Gemini. Leo and Virgo. Those persons born
under planets in a fruitful sign are apt to have a number of children.
Those born under planets in barren signs are likely to have but few or
possibly no children. They are also divided into the signs of voice, that is,

those persons ,born with their planets in the signs of voice are apt to be
very good speakers or writers; these signs are Gemini, Libra, Sagittary
and Aquarius; they are sometimes also called human signs. Persons
born under those signs, are generally more humane and kinder hearted
than persons born under planets in other signs, or under planets in what
is termed beastial signs. The beastial signs are Aries, Taurus, Leo,
Capricorn and the last half of Saggittarius.

The mute signs are Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces. Those persons
born with their planet in these signs are apt to have an impediment in
their speech or are very poor talkers or public speakers. The signs are
also divided into Equinoctial, which are Aries and Libra, that is, when



g6 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

the Sun is in either of these signs it is said to cross the line of equinox.
The tropical signs are Cancer and Capricorn. These signs are also

divided into masculine and feminine. The masculine are reckoned
from Aries, then every other sign is called masculine, that is, Aries,
Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittary and Aquarius. Those (whether men or
women) born with their planet in masculine signs are generally more
masculine than other persons. The feminine signs are Taurus, Cancer,
Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn and Pisces. The signs are also divided into
dry and moist signs; the dry signs are Aries, Taurus, Leo, Virgo,
Sagittary and Capricorn. Those persons born with their planets in

these signs are more dry in their nature and apt to be more feverish when
ill than other persons. The moist signs are Gemini, Cancer, Scorpio,
Libra, Aquarius and Pisces, and persons born with their planets in those
signs partake of their nature. They are also divided into the Northern
and Southern signs. The Northern signs are Aries, Taurus, Gemini,
Cancer, Leo and Virgo. The Southern signs are Libra, Scorpio, Sagit-

tary, Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces. The Northern signs are always
in opposition to the Southern signs and are always on opposite houses.
For instance, if the sign Aries is on the ascendant or rising, the sign

Libra will be on the seventh house or setting, and so on of all the other
Northern and Southern signs.

The fiery signs, Aries, Leo and Sagittary are in trine aspect or 120
degrees apart, the earthy signs are the same or in trine aspect, and so is

the airy and watery signs ; all the signs in a triplicity are in trine aspect

to each other. The fiery and airy signs are in sextile to each other,

that is, Aries is in Sextile to Gemini, Leo is in sextile to Libra, and
Sagittary in sextile to Aquarius, so is the earthy and watery signs in

sextile to each other, that is, 60 degrees apart : Taurus is in sextile to

Cancer, Virgo to Scorpio, and Capricorn to Pisces.

All the movable or cardinal signs are in square aspect to each other
or 90 degrees apart, that is, Aries in square to Cancer, Cancer in square
to Libra, and Libra in square to Capricorn, and Capricorn is in square
to Aries. The fixed signs are in square to each other ; Taurus is in

square to Leo ; Leo in square to Scorpio, and Scorpio in square to

Aquarius. The common signs are in square to each other ; Gemini is

in square to Virgo ; Virgo in square to Sagittary, and Sagittary in square

to Pisces, and vice versa.

The student should commit all these aspects and divisions of the

signs to memory, so that he can repeat them wiftiout a single mistake,

the same as the multiplication table. He may not see the benefit of it

at present, and think it may all come to him afterwards when he begins

practicing Astrology, but he will find that he has a great deal to learn

besides these signs and their various triplicities and aspects, and there-

fore it is best for him to be as perfect as possible in this part of Astrology
before he proceeds any further. After he has mastered this part of the

science then he must learn how to describe a person by the twelve signs

of the Zodiac ; it will also be advisable for him to commit this part to

memory so that he can repeat the whole from beginning to end.



7 ..

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 1
t) /

GENERAL APPEARANCE OF PERSONS DESCRIBED
BY THE TWELVE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC.

Aries °f

13 Describes a person not exceeding in height or very tall,

but lean or spare, large bones, and his limbs strong, the visage
long, black or reddish eyebrows, a long scraggy neck, thick
shoulders, the complexion dusky, brown or swarthy.

Taurus 8

14 It represents one of short stature, but full, strong and
well set, a broad forehead, great eyes, large swarthy face and
broad strong shoulders, great mouth and thick lips, large
hands, black or coarse reddish hair.

Gemini n.
15 An upright, tall, straight, thin or well built body, either

in man or woman ; the complexion sanguine, not clear but
obscure and dark ; long arms, yet many titnes the hand and
feet short and fleshy; dark hair, almost black; a strong
active body, a good piercing eye, and of perfect and quick
sight, of excellent understanding and judicious in worldly
affairs.

Cancer ®.
16 Generally a low and small stature, the upper parts larger

than the lower, a round face, sickly pale and white com-
plexion, the hair brown, little eyes, prone to have many
children, if a woman.

Leo ft.

1 Great round head, large prominent or staring eyes, quick
sighted; a full and large body, and more than of middle
stature ; broad shoulders, narrow sides, yellow or dark flaxen
hair, and it curling or turning up ; a fierce countenance, but
ruddy high sanguine complexion ; strong, valiant and active,
step firm and mind courteous.

Virgo ti£.

18 A slender body, rather tall, but well composed ; a ruddy or
brown complexion, black hair, well favored or lovely, but not
a beautiful creature; small, shrill voice, judicious and exceed-
ingly well spoken, studious and given to history, whether
man or woman. It produces a rare understanding if Mer-
cury be in this sign, arid Moon in Cancer, but somewhat
unstable. >

Libra =2=.

19 It personates a well formed body, straight, tall and more



;

98 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

subtle or refined rather than gross ; a round, lovely and beau-
tiful face; a pure sanguine color; in youth no abundance
or excess in either red or white, but in age pimples or a very
high color ; the hair is yellowish, smooth and long ; eyes gen-
erally blue and temper even.

Scorpio v\.

2.0 A corpulent, strong, able body, somewhat broad or
square face; a dusky, muddy complexion and dark hair,
much and crisping; a hairy body; somewhat bow-legged;
short necked ; a stout, well-trussed person.

Sagittary f .

21 It represents a well-favored countenance, somewhat long
face, but full and ruddy or almost like sunburned, the hair
light chestnut color, the stature somewhat above the middle
size, a conformity in the members, and a strong able body
inclined to baldness, and one fond of horses.

Capricorn V3-

22 Usually a dry body, not high of stature, long, lean and
slender face, thin beard and black hair, a narrow chin,
long small neck and narrow chest. I have found many times
Capricorn ascending the party to have light hair, but in the
seventh, or setting, dark.

Aquarius $?.

23 It represents a thick or stout corporature, or one of a
strong plump, well-composed body, not tall ; a long visage,
sanguine complexion ; if Saturn, who is lord of this sign, be in
Capricorn or Aquarius, the party has dark or black hair and
in complexion sanguine, with prominent teeth, otherwise I

have observed the party is of clear, light or fair complexion,
and of sandy colored hair or very flaxen, and a very pure skin.

Pisces X-
24 A short stature, not very well made ; a good large face,

pale complexion, the body fleshy or swelling; not very
straight, but stooping somewhat with the head when walk-
ing; inclined to lean forward.

The student had better learn to memorize the general description

of the 12 signs of the Zodiac, and he ought to bear in mind that what
ever planet may be in any of these signs, it is always more or less tinged

by the description of the signs above named. For instance, if either

Saturn, Mars or Jupiter or any other planet be in the sign Aries, the

person is generally near the middle height, rather large bones, strong

limbs, longish face &c. Also if the planet be in the sign Taurus, no
matter what planet it is, it has a tendency to make the person born under



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 99

that planet, inclined to be short and stout, and so on. He had also

better learn to associate in his mind the "short" and "tall" signs, and
"stout" and "thin" signs. For instance, Aries, Gemini, Virgo, Libra
and Sagittary and sometimes Aquarius will describe a tall person, and he
will be but seldom stout, more apt to be slender or thin. The short

signs are Taurus, Cancer, Leo, Scorpio, Capricorn and Pisces, and
sometimes Acquarius. The persons born with their planets in those

signs, are very likely to be below the medium height, although some-
times Pisces will describe a tall and stout built person ; it depends what
planet is in that sign. For instance Mercury in the sign Pisces, will

describe a person short, and Jupiter or the Sun in the sign Pisces, the

person is almost certain to be tall and stout. The stout signs are Taurus,
sometimes Cancer, Leo, Scorpio and Pisces, and sometimes Aquarius

;

but after the student once becomes familiar with those signs and their gen-

eral description, he can instantly form an opinion by the aspects of the

planets of what description the person is ; and in that manner correct

the time of birth, if the person does not know the correct time, or has

given the wrong time of birth.

The student will next learn the description of persons born under
the various planets, and also their signification. He must bear in mind
that the planet, no matter what sign it is in always has a certain

characteristic belonging to itself, and he can generally tell whether a

person is a Jupiter or Venus person by their personal appearance, no
matter what sign that planet is in ; also he can distinguish between a

Saturn and a Mars person, and so on, in regard to any other planet.

He had best read and then commit to memory, if possible, the kind of
persons described by the eight planets.

I will here state that it has not yet been fully learned how to describe

the appearance of persons born under Neptune in each of the twelve
signs of the Zodiac, as sufficient time has not elapsed since its

discovery to have made proper observations. I shall have something to

say on this subject in the latter part of this book ; the student and also

the professors of Astrology, should be very careful, and not give special

descriptions of persons born under what is called the new planet, until

we become more familiar with it, both in its characteristics and the

kind of persons it describes.

PERSONS DESCRIBED BY THE EIGHT PLANETS.
I will here preface what is meant by a planet being well dignified, or

ill dignified. A planet is said to be well dignified when in good aspect

to good planets, or in a sign in which it is said to be strong and not
afflicted, or in its own sign. A planet is said to be ill dignified when
in evil aspect to evil planets, or in a sign in which it is said to be weak,
or what is termed in its "detriment" or "fall."

The Description of Herschel.

25 It indicates a person above the medium height, more
apt to be well built or slender and wiry, than stout, especi-



1

lOO ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

ally if that planet is in the ascendant ; has a tendency to be
dark complexioned rather than light, but if light, a very light
blonde, with yellow hair. High forehead, rather full face and
that somewhat distorted, and generally a wide mouth ; rather
small, restless, grey, brown or hazel eyes, but seldom blue or
black eyes, spare beard and likely to become bald before mid-
dle age. Active in manner, fond of study, also fond of science,
inventive and fond of the occult or mysterious. He is seldom
of a pleasant appearance, and generally odd or eccentric in his
behavior. This is the description of Herschel persons when
not in aspect to other planets, but when in aspect to other plan-
ets, the native partakes very much of the nature or quality of
those planets.

26 When well dignified it describes a person well built,
and nearly six feet high, of a commanding appearance and
of great energy and perseverance. He will probably make
some invention or discovery that will cause him to become
famous or very wealthy. Has a great liking for astrology,
astronomy, chemistry, etc., and will easily become an adept
in those sciences.

27 When ill-dignified it describes a person rather slender,
and but seldom above the medium height, disagreeable and
odd in his manner, with some deformity, either in his per-
sonal appearance, walk or actions ; also restless and unsettled.

28 Herschel naturally describes old persons, especially old
maids or batchelors, recluses or hermits, and those who but
seldom go into company. It rules furnaces, labatories,
wild, unfrequented places, old, desolate buildings, antique
furniture, statuary, old books and old pictures.

Of Saturn.
29 He naturally represents one of a middle stature, dark

or swarthy complexion, little eyes, lowering eye-brows,
flattish nose, thick lips, and stoops forward with his head
when walking; large ears, dark or black hair, thin beard,
and sometimes none at all ; in short, a very peevish, melan-
choly and clumsy person, when in no aspect, but in aspect
to other planets, you must mix their significations ac-
cordingly.

30 When Saturn is well dignified the persons signified by
him are grave and sober, performing all their actions with
judgment and discretion, having a searching fancy, and much
given to study.

3 When he is ill dignified he signifies a malicious, envious,
covetous, jealous, lying, dissembling, thievish person, not
regarding his word or reputation.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. lOl

32 Saturn naturally signifies old men, as grandfathers and
fathers, as also persons who dig in mines or pits of the earth,
husbandmen, day laborers, clowns, beggars, brickmakers,
colliers, gardeners, sextons, tanners and curriers of leather,
monks and Jesuits.

Of Jupiter.

33 Jupiter naturally describes one of a tall stature, of a
ruddy complexion and smiling countenance, an oval visage,
high forehead and comely grey eyes, the hair soft and
auburn, or of a light brown ; much beard and the body every
way handsomely formed ; of a prudent and commendable
carriage ; sober and grave in his speech and just and upright
in all his actions.

34 But when this planet (though a fortune) is ill dignified,
he denotes the persons signified by him to be a mere dissem-
bler, a hypocrite in matters of faith and religion, ignorant
and careless and of a dull capacity, and instead of doing good
he contrives ways and tricks to cheat his friend under a pre-
tense of doing him a kindness.

35 He signifies clergymen and civilians, bishops, priests,
judges and senators, young scholars and students in the law,
clothiers and woolen drapers and all sorts of trades that deal
in wool or woolen clothing.

Of Mars.
36 He represents a person of a middle stature, big-boned,

and a strong able body, of a ruddy brown complexion and
round visage, his hair for the most part red or of a sandy
flaxen (unless in an earthy sign) and curling, a piercing
sharp hazel eye, of a bold, lofty spirit, and a confident and
undaunted countenance.

37 When he is well dignified he represents a person of a pru-
dent behavior, though bold and confident, excellent in war,
taking all the feats of honor upon himself, a boaster of his
own acts; in fine he is really valiant and scorns to be
overcome.

38 When ill dignified he delights in quarrels, murder and
thievery and all evil actions, a traitor, and of a rash, inhu-
man, turbulent spirit, neither fearing God nor man.

39 Mars represents conquerors, usurpers, tyrants, or pre-
tended kings, ruling by oppression and usurpation, colonels,
captains and soldiers, physicians, apothecaries, surgeons,
gunners, bailiffs, marshals, butchers, bakers, smiths, cutlers,
barbers, watchmakers, cooks and carpenters.

Of Sun.
40 He represents a person of a plump, corpulent body,

large face, broad, high forehead, a saffron or honey colored



102 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

complexion, great full eyes, yet a sharp sight, the hair yel-
low or light flaxen, much beard, generally of a great spirit,

though honest, humane and courteous and of a healthful
constitution.

41 When well dignified he inclines a person to honorable
and great undertakings, for the most part high-minded,
faithful and generous, very prudent and desirous of rule or
sovereignty, of a very noble and majestic spirit, yet is very
punctual and just to his friends and keeps his promise, even
to his enemies, a mortal hater of all base and dishonorable
actions.

42 When ill dignified he gives a proud, domineering, trou-
blesome, vaporing person, using neither gravity in his words
nor sobriety in his actions, always boasting of his pedigree,
a mere spendthrift, careless of his family 01 estate, a hanger
on and depender upon other men's charity.

43 The Sun signifies persons of the highest degree of men,
as emperors, kings, princes, dukes, marquises, earls, barons,
courtiers and magistrates of all sorts, as also gentlemen in
general. In trades he denotes goldsmiths, minters of
money, coppersmiths, braziers and pewterers.

Of Venus.

44 Venus describes one of a comely, middle stature,
round or oval face and handsome visage, a whitish or clear
complexion, curious lovely eyes, fair smooth hair, most
commonly of light brown ; red and cherry cheeks, with little

becoming dimples in them or in the chin, the face fleshy,
smooth and amiable, the person, whether man or woman,
every way exceedingly handsome and delightful, and well
shaped, going neat and decent in every part, both in clothes
and person.

45 When she is well dignified the person described is of a
pleasing disposition, a lover of pleasure and delighter in
music and the fine arts; one who goes very cleanly and neat
in apparel, zealous in affection, often entangled in love mat-
ters, nothing mistrustful or suspicious, a right virtuous
person, be it either man or woman.

46 If ill dignified she signifies a person given to incestuous
habits, to rioting and lewdness, not regarding his or her
reputation, a hunter of concert-halls and saloons, carelessly
wasting his money and estate, using neither faith nor con-
science in conversation ; and if Venus be in square or opposi-
tion to Mars in any woman's nativity or question, it denotes
her a vile drunken creature, as also a notorious thief and liar.

47 She signifies all sorts of maids, wives and widows,
musicians, painters, players, gravers, jewellers, silkdealers,



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. IO3

gamesters, perfumers, embroiderers, seamstresses, drawers
of pictures, artists, glovers, and allssuch commodities that
adorn women.

Of Mercury.
48 He represents a person medium tall and straight of

body, a long visage, high forehead, long nose, thick brown
or black hair, but little beard ; his face of a dark or swarthy
complexion, long arms and hands. If in aspect to Saturn,
more dull and heavy; if with Jupiter more temperate; with
Mars, rash and passionate; with the Sun, more generous;
with Venus, merry and jesting; with the Moon, a mere
shifter and deceiver. Mercury is much influenced by any or
all the planets he is in aspect with.

49 When well dignified in a question or nativity the person
signified by him is of a pregnant wit, desirous of learning
attaining anything with ease, eloquent in his speeches, aim-
ing at the perfection* of the arts ; he is often desirous of travel
into foreign countries, and is the author of many curious and
notable inventions.

50 If weak or ill dignified then he signifies one given to
boasting, prating and lying, a pretender to all manner of
knowledge, but not capable of any, a mere conceited cox-
comb, a thievish, cheating person, given to strife, conten-
tion and unreasonable disputes, a troublesome wit, with
which he employs his pen and tongue against every man and
generally without any just cause or reason.

51 Mercury generally signifies philosophers, astrologers,
mathematicians, schoolmasters, poets, advocates, merchants,
secretaries, accountants, solicitors, clerks, stationers, print-
ers, booksellers, tailors, usurers, carriers and messengers.

Of Moon.
52 She denotes one of a large stature, round, pale or

whitish face, grey eyes, and sometimes one bigger than the
other ; the hair brown or light brown, an abundance of hair
and beard; the body plump, having thick fleshy hands and
fingers.

53 When well dignified she denotes a lover of all honest arts
and inventions, delights in novelties, and naturally inclined
to remove and shift from place to place ; a very timorous
and easily frightened person, but a soft and tender and well-
disposed creature.

54 When ill dignified she denotes vagabonds, an idle, lazy,
drunken companion given to sottishness, delighting to live
careless or beggarly, one of no spirit or forecast, a perfect
hater of labor, a mutable, unsettled and inconstant person.



IO4 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

55 She signifies the common people, as also queens, duch-
esses, ladies, and all women in general, pilgrims or travel-
lers, sailors, fishermen, and such as go long voyages by sea
or land, barrelers, brewers, coachmen, letter carriers, milli-
ners, messengers, bar-tenders, malsters, mid-wives, nurses,
hackneys, charmen and water-bearers, charwomen and
washerwomen.

After the student has thoroughly committed to memory the descrip-
tion of persons born under the eight planets, regardless of what signs they
may happen to be in, and also the description of the persons born under
a planet well dignified, or ill dignified, and also the persons, professions

or trades signified by the various planets, he can then proceed to learn
the description of persons indicated by the planets in each of the 12
signs of the Zodiac, and it would be advisable to learn by heart as many
of these descriptions as possible. Even if he could commit to memory
the whole, it would be best to do so, similar to his learning any latin

lesson, or rules in the English grammar, but any way he should be able
to remember what might be termed certain landmarks, of persons de-
scribed by the planets in particular signs. For instance, he should
commit to memory the description of persons indicated by the planet
Venus in the sign Libra ; of Jupiter in the sign Sagittary ; of Saturn in

the sign Aquarius : of the Sun in the sign Leo: of Mercury in the

sign Virgo, and so on. These will serve as guide-posts or landmarks,
for most of the planets in the different signs.

Astrology is a science and also an art ; we might compare it to music.

A person studying mnsic may know all the notes and may be able to give

expression to any of them at any moment on any instrument or by the

voice, but the musician is known or appreciated chiefly by his skill in

associating these various notes together, to produce tunes or harmony,
and the more successful he is in that respect, the better musician he is.

It is the same in the practice of Astrology, the more successful an Astrol-

oger is in delineating the personal description, and also the mental quali-

ties, temper and the various traits or characteristics of the persons and
their liking or inclination to any particular science, trade or profession,

the more successful does the Astrologer become, and the better he becomes
known as a person qualified for his profession. It is astonishing how
skillful the Astrologer can become in describing persons both bodily,

mentally, and physically, by the planets in the different signs, by constant
trial and long practice : particularly if the Astrologer has a special gift

in acquiring a knowledge of that science, similar to a person having a

particular gift for learning music, painting, etc.

The following is a description of persons born under the eight plan-

ets, in each sign of the Zodiac, and which the student ought to commit
to memory if possible.



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 1 05

HERSCHEL IN THE TWELVE SIGNS.
We can generally recognize a ¥ person by their unsettled eyes,

which are often hazel, and cannot look at any one object long ; they are

generally above the middle height, sometimes very tall; they are but
seldom stout. They are always fond of discoveries and inventions, and
the occult. ¥ makes more old maids and old bachelors than all the

other planets put together, especially if it is in the ascendant.

¥ in T
56 Rather tall stature, lean, and well made, light hair,

hazel or grey eyes, ruddy or sun-burned complexion : strong
constitution, ambitious, and quick in anger.

¥ in 8

57 Short, thick-set person, dark hair and eyes, deep-set
rather fleshy, muddy or swarthy complexion, short neck;
passionate, boasting, and revengeful ; a person to be avoided,
conceited and luxurious.

¥ in n
58 Produces a tall, thin stature; brown hair, and grey

eyes, well made, quick step, active and nimble; fond of
science, of a rather good disposition, eccentric in behavior,
generous and inventive.

¥ in ®
59 Produces a short, thick-set, corpulent body, pale com-

plexion, brown hair and grey eyes ; conceited, bigoted, fond
of drink, violent, eccentric, and ungovernable.

¥ in a
60 Makes a full-sized stature, broad, strong shoulders,

light brown hair, and sandy beard; firm walk. In dis-
position, generous and free; eccentric, fond of military
display, rather proud, and self-conceited.

¥ in W
61 A short stature, dark hair and eyes, lean body, small

limbs; of an eccentric turn of mind, fond of curiosities and
novelties, studious, scientific but mean and close in worldly
affairs.

¥ in =2=

62 Produces a full stature, well-made body, oval face,
light hair, and sanguine complexion ; of a scientific, ambitious
turn of mind, soon angered, and eccentric in behavior.

¥ in m
63 Short and thick-set body, broad shoulders and often ill-

made; dark, swarthy complexion, dark or black hair and



106 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

eyes, a malicious, deceitful, cunning- person, given to drink
and pleaures, and a most despicable person when ¥ is afflicted
in this sign by an evil aspect of T

<> or $ .

¥ in ^

64 Describes a person of tall stature, light hair and eyes,
lofty forehead, good complexion. In disposition generous
and free, fond of all sports, and enthusiastic.

¥ in V3

65 Denotes one below the middle stature, well-made,
short neck, high forehead, dark hair and eyes proud, austere,

;

and conceited, and possessing but few laudable proclivities.

¥ in £7
66 Produces a person above the middle stature, brown hair

and eyes, well-made, and handsome broad face; very in-
genious, fond of science and novelties, eccentric, and of good
disposition.

¥ in }{

67 Medium stature, sickly, light or pale complexion, dark
hair and eyes, ill-made hands or feet, bad walk; indispo-
sition sottish and dull, dejected and despised.

SATURN IN THE TWELVE SIGNS.
A J

? person can generally be recognized, no matter what sign of the

Zodiac it may chance to be in, by his thoughtful and studious appearance
;

he is generally careful and saving, and has a down look when walking ; he
is but seldom lively or cheerful, or inclined to pleasure, and he is more
inclined to be slender than stout. b generally gives bad teeth, and in }{

they are discolored and rotten.

J
> in T

68 Gives a ruddy complexion, a spare, raw-boned person,
full face, often dark hair, not much beard, addicted to boast-
ing, resolute, quarrelsome and very ill natured.

l> in «

69 Gives a person in no wise comely, but a heavy, clumsy,
awkward appearance, dark hair, middle stature, not well
made, rough in carriage, sordid, vicious, etc.

T
2 in n

70 Represents a person of rather tall stature, dark, san-
guine complexion, oval visage, dark brown or black hair,

ingenious but unpolished, perverse and generally unfortunate
in most of his undertakings.



1

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. IO7

^ in ®
7 Denotes a person of middle stature, rather short than

tall, sickly and feeble, meagre face, dark hair, languid eyes,
the body sometimes crooked jealous, malicious and deceit-

;

ful in his dealings.

^ in a
72 Gives a person of moderate large stature, broad, round

shoulders, wide chest, lightish hair, large boned, surly
aspect, eyes sunk, apt to stoop. Qualities tolerably good,
generous but passionate, not over valiant or courageous when
put to the test.

J
2 in TT£

73 Represents a person of a tall, spare body, swarthy com-
plexion, dark or black hair, and that plentiful ; a long head,
solid countenance, generally unfortunate, inclined to melan-
choly, retaining anger, a projector of curious matters to
little purpose, studious, subtle, reserved, inclined to pilfering
and indirect dealings.

*? in =s=

74 Describes a person above the middle stature, soft
brown hair, oval face, large nose and forehead, clear com-
plexion, one opinionated of himself, prodigal of expense.
They are given to debate and controversy and seldom leave
any wealth at their death.

T
? in Til

75 Represents a person of a mean stature, .stout, thick-
trussed body, broad shoulders, black or dark hair, which is

usually short and thick; quarrelsome, mischievous, one who
will undertake violent and dangerous actions, though often
to his own detriment.

^ in ^

76 Gives a large body, brown hair, good make, tolerable
complexion, obliging disposition, not covetous, moderately
frugal, rarely profuse, but somewhat choleric. One who will
not bear an affront yet willing to do good to all ; a lover of
his friends and merciful to an enemy

^ in VS

7 7 Personates a lean, raw-boned body, dark or black hair,
middle stature, dark complexion, small, leering eyes, long
visage, and a stooping, awkward posture in walking. One
who is peevish, discontented, melancholy, covetous, of few
words, fearful, retains anger, and is of great gravity.



lo8 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

78 Gives a reasonable full-bodied person, a large head
and face, rather inclined to corpulency, middle stature, sad
brown hair, a clear complexion, sober, graceful deportment,
affable, courteous disposition; of an excellent, searching
fancy, and generally very proficient in what they under-
take in arts and sciences ; a person of a pregnant genius, yet
liable to be conceited.

^ in X
79 Describes a middle-statured person, pale complexion,

sad or dark brown hair, a large head and full eye, sometimes
the teeth are distorted ; a person not very comely ; active to
do mischief, malicious and given to contention and dissimu-
lation; an uncertain, fickle person in everything, though
often presenting a good outside, yet fraudulent and deceitful
in the end. They are not talkative but deliberate, and do
evil with malice aforethought. They are said to improve as
they grow older.

JUPITER IN THE TWELVE SIGNS.
Jupiter persons are generally known by having a straight walk, but not

really proud, like a $ person ; they are above the medium height, in-

clined to be full built, and often stout ; they are known by having an
oval face, high forehead, and hair receding from the temples, and some-
times they become bald before middle age ; they are often persons of
great ambition, and like to rule others ; they make poor servants.

Jupiter usually gives good teeth, and frequently an apparent mark in the

front teeth. In an airy sign, he gives broad front teeth ; in a fiery sign,

crooked ; in earthy they are discolored ; and in a watery sign, the teeth

decay suddenly, and grow black and rotten, especially if he be in tf
with £5 , or in any evil aspect of ^ or $ . If he be in a watery sign,

in D or £ to £ , the party has some defect in his delivery or speech.

Jupiter in an airy sign, the body is more strongly built and corpulent ; in a

fiery sign more square and strong ; in an earthy, a well composed body,
and in a watery, more fat and often comely.

U in T
80 Describes a middle stature, but not stout, rather lean

than corpulent, a quick penetrating eye, high nose, oval vis-

age, generally with pimples or a peculiar redness in the face.

They are of a free, noble, generous disposition, very oblig-
ing, polite and complacent, especially to their friends.

K in »
81 Gives a middle stature, stout, well-set body, but

though compact not handsome; hair brown, rough and curl-

ing, complexion swarthy, and frequently the skin looks
shiny and oily. The disposition reasonably good, judgment



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. IO9

sound, deportment good, behavior free and charitable, fond
of the female sex, and very humane and compassionate to
the distressed.

% in H
82 Represents a well-made, compact body, plump, yet

above the middle stature, sanguine complexion, though
rather dusky, brown hair and full expressive eyes, the
deportment graceful, affable, courteous, gentle, mild, oblig-
ing and good-natured. An admirer of the female sex and a
lover of learning. But if % be near Occulus Taurus in n
6° 47' with 2 34' south lat. , he will be addicted to women.
And if near Aldebaran in n 8° 7' with 28'

5 south lat., he
will be rash and unstable, inimical to himself and disagreea-
ble to others. If with the bull's north horn in n 2d 54'

with 22'
5 north lat., he will be rash and violent.

li in 23

83 Gives a person of middle stature, a pale, sickly and
unwholesome complexion, oval face, hair dark brown, body
rather plump but disproportioned. A busy, talkative
character, very conceited and apt to intermeddle with other
people's concerns. A lover of women and fond of the water
whereon he is usually fortunate. Unless Mars throws a
good aspect to Jupiter he is not courageous.

n in a
84 Represents a strong and well-proportioned tall body,

the hair is light or yellowish brown and curling ; complexion
ruddy, eye full and fiery person rather handsome. The dis-

;

position is noble-minded, courageous and magnanimous, but
lofty and proud and ambitious, one who delights in warlike
actions, is a terror to his enemies, and who scorns to bend to
them ; fond of contending for honors, etc. , and full of daring
and enterprise.

U in TIE

85 Gives a person of a reasonable full stature, well built,
and what may be termed handsome ; sad brown or black hair,
ruddy complexion, but not clear or fair. One who is choleric
and given to boasting, studious, yet covetous, and by his
rashness often meeting serious losses; he is not easily
imposed or wrought upon by any person.

% in =^

86 Renders the body complete and elegant, a handsome
form, and inviting face, upright, tall stature, rather slender,
clear complexion, a full eye, oval face, light brown hair, sub-
ject to have pimples or a rash in the face. Disposition and



1IO ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

temper mild ; behavior winning and obliging- to all, partial
to exercise and recreation ; much esteemed and honored.

u in m
87 Gives a middle stature, stout compact body, coarse

hair, fleshy and full face, muddy or dull complexion. Man-
ners proud and lofty, one who is ambitious, and desires to
bear rule over his equals ; resolute and covetous, ill natured
and selfish, very subtle and crafty, therefore to be very warily
dealth with.

U in £

88 Gives a fine, tall, upright body, good form and make,
oval face, ruddy complexion, brown chestnut colored hair,
full beard and whiskers, but the hair falls off early in life,

especially about the temples, a good eye, and much expres-
sion in the face. The mind is just and noble, disposition
courageous, humane, affable and agreeable; manners polite
and accomplished. One fond of horses and hunting.

U in VS

89 Descrides a small stature, pale complexion, thin face,
little head, not much beard, weakly person, dark brown hair,
said to be darker than the beard. The mind is ingenious,
but peevish, inactive, helpless and indolent.

U in ^
90 Personates a middle stature, well set, brown hair, clear

complexion, rather corpulent, compact make, and of a cheer-
ful, obliging disposition, hurtful to none; well conducted,
and moderate in recreation just and merciful, good humored,

;

industrious, communicative, inclined to be scientific, and but
little inclined to extravagance.

U in X
91 Describes a person of middle stature, obscure complex-

ion, plump, fleshy body, lightish brown hair. Disposition
harmless, studious, and possessed of excellent talents and
good acquirements; friendly, kind, and inoffensive. They
delight in good company, and to be upon the water,
where if J) throw not an evil aspect to 2£, they are very
fortunate.

MARS IN THE TWELVE SIGNS.

A Mars person is generally known by having either red, or auburn, or

yellowish hair, but sometimes he has black hair, and if a man, his mus-
tache is generally lighter than his hair ; has a proud, military walk, fond
of dress and decoration, and often a boaster, or blows his own trumpet

;

he easily gets into quarrels or fights, but generally comes off conqueror;
he speaks quick and is generally very decisive in his language and actions.



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 1 1 1

If $ be in tf , or § of Saturn, or with £j , the disposition is

very evil, especially if they be in angles, then the person he describes
is very fierce and violent. He is the giver of courage and resolution,
but if $ be weak and afflicted he is very deficient. If Mars be in fiery

signs, he is hasty and choleric, and there is generally observed to be a

falling in of the cheeks, and a lightness of features, with an angry look;
in earthy signs, a sullen dogged temper ; in airy signs, more free and
obliging; in watery, sottish dull and stupid, unless Mars be well aspected
by Jupiter, Sun or Moon.

^ inf
92 Represents a person of middle stature, well set, large

boned; swarthy complexion, light hair, and curling, fre-
quently red; austere countenance, and, if $ be oriental,
ruddy, and smooth ; bold and undaunted, confident, choleric,
and proud ; fond of war and dispute ; one who often gains
by those means.

$ in 8

93 Gives a middle stature, well set, rather short ; dusky
complexion, dark or black hair, which is rough and coarse /

broad face, and wide mouth; he will generally have some
scar or other mark in the face, which is often ruddy, but
never fair. He will be gluttonous, debauched, given to
drinking and wenching; also a gambler, and very quarrel-
some, treacherous, and illnatured. He is generally unfortu-
nate, but if $ be near the Pleiades, remarkably so.

$ in n
94 Gives a tall person, with black or dark brown hair,

(although if $ be in the first seven degrees of n , the terms
of £ , it will be light, ) sanguine complexion, and well propor-
tioned body. He is restless and unsettled, but ingenious;
unfortunate in most things, living in a mean way, generally
shifting here and there, leaving his debts unpaid, and exer-
cising his wits for a livelihood ; in short, a chevalier d 'Indus-
trie, or mere swindler. But if $ be in good aspect to ©,
21 or $ it will mitigate these evil propensities.

$ in gp

95 Describes a short figure, and a bad complexion, with
brown hair and not much of it ; the body is generally ill made,
and crooked. The temper is sour and bad ; one who is given
to sottishness, a mean servile unfortunate creature ; usually
he is employed in some low business, being incapable of
better.

$ in a
96 Shows a well proportioned body, rather tall, light

brown hair, oval face, sanguine or sunburnt complexion,



;

1 1 2 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

large eyes, stout limbs, and a brisk, cheerful aspect. A lover
of women, given to boasting, fond of robust sports, as hunt-
ing, riding, shooting, etc. ,.and ready for warlike occupation
at any time. He dresses well and is a favorite with the
ladies, but it is generally to his prejudice.

$ in m
97 Produces a middle sized body, well made, and pro-

portioned, black hair, or very dark brown ; the first seven
degrees gives lighter hair than the rest of the sign, being the
terms of Mercury, the complexion is swarthy or darkish, and
generally some scar, mark or blemish in the face. A hasty,
pi oud, revengeful and spiteful mind ; one who remembers
an injury, is hard to please, conceited, and generally very
unfortunate in all he undertakes.

6 in =£=

98 Gives a neat made, rather tall person ; his face oval
complexion sanguine, and hair light brown and soft, but, if

in the last six degrees, (his own term,) it is more wiry and
reddish. The disposition is brisk and cheerful, but fond of
boasting, and very conceited, one who is fond of dress, effemi-
nate in appearance, much attached to women, by whom he is

also much beloved and frequently ruined.

6 in m
99 Preduces a well set form of middle stature, rather corpu-

lent, swarthy complexion, black, curling hair, broad and
plain face. The temper is very unsociable, and rash ; they
are generally revengeful, ungrateful, quarrelsome and wick-
ed yet of good genius and ready apprehension, excelling in

;

mystery, etc.

$ in f
100 Denotes a tall person, with a well proportioned body,

compact, and well made, sanguine complexion, oval visage,
a quick, penetrating eye ; the mind is cheerful, merry and
jovial, but disposition hasty, passionate, high minded and
lofty ; courageous, loquacious, and fond of applause : on the
whole a good character.

$ in V3

1 01 Represents a mean or small stature, thin, lean body,
little head, thin face, bad complexion, being sallow and ob-
scure ; black, lank hair. An ingenious mind, witty, shrewd
and penetrating, generally fortunate and successful in his

undertakings.
$ in £?

102 Gives a well composed body, rather corpulent, and
inclined to be tall, (though frequently not above the middle



,;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. II3

size), fair or clear complexion, sandy hair, a turbulent dispo-
sition, and addicted to controversy, etc. not very fortunate

;

in general.

$ in X
103 Represents a mean stature, rather short and fleshy, a

bad complexion, far from handsome ; a debauched look, light
brown hair, sottish and stupid ; a great lover of women, if in
his own terms or those of Mercury, sly and artful, deceitful,
idle and worthless, not friendly to any one.

THE SUN IN THE TWELVE SINGS.
A Sun person is generally known by having a particularly straight or

proud walk, as if he was a man of great consequence. He often has a

full face, full prominent eyes, and broad forehead ; is generally a go-
ahead person, and wishes to show off, especially in having a fine house,
or wanting to become a leading politician ; he has generally good health,

or if sick, readily recovers.

in T
104 Decribes a rather tall stature, strong and well made;

a good complexion, though not very clear, light hair, flaxen
or yellowish, and large eyes. The man is noble, valiant and
courageous, delighting in warlike actions and enterprises ; he
gains victory, is famous, and a terror to his enemies, etc.

O in «

105 Gives a short, well set, rather ugly person ; dusky com-
plexion, brown hair, large, broad face, wide mouth and great
nose. A confident, proud and bold man, fond of opposition,
proud of his physical strength, and one who generally is

victorious.

O in n
106 Represents a well proportioned body, above the middle

stature, sanguine complexion, brown hair. He is affable,
courteous and kind, not very fortunate, as he is so meek and
mild tempered, often controlled and imposed on by others.

O in S3
107 Gives a mean, ill formed body, deformed in the face,

with a very unhealthy aspect ; the hair brown. A harmless,
cheerful person, but indolent, and not fond of employment
one who spends his time in sports and pastimes, dancing, etc.

and is greatly addicted to women.
O in a

108 Gives a strong, well proportioned body, and a very
portly person, sanguine complexion, light brown or yellowish
hair, a full face, and large staring eyes, and very prominent



;

114 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

there is generally a mark or scar on the face. A very just,
upright and honorable man, who scorns to do any meaness;
punctual and faithful to friends, and magnanimous even to
his enemies, in short a right royal disposition ; a very ambi-
tious man, withal, fond of rule and authority, and given to
war and dominion, conquest, etc.

O in TTJ2

109 Makes a person inclined to be tall of stature, and slen-
der, but very well proportioned, good complexion, dark hair,
and much of it, but not black; the mind ingenious and cheer-
ful, fond of honest recreation, especially agreeable at convivial
parties, etc.

O in =£=

no Produces an upright, tall and slender body, full eyes,
oval face, ruddy complexion, light hair, and frequently a rash
or pimples in the face. The mind is honorable, and disposi-
tion good, but the party is always unfortunate, especially in
all matters of war or ambition.

O in Tit

in Gives a remarkably square built, full fleshy person,
broad face, cloudy complexion, dun or sunburnt, brown
hair; mind ingenious, but the temper rugged and over-
beraing, manners disagreeable, disposition ambitious, one
who will not admit of an equal; they are fortunate iipon the
seas, or as surgeons, physicians, etc.

O in £
112 Makes a tall, handsome, well proportioned body, oval

face, sanguine complexion, or rather brown or sun burnt;
light brown hair, but in the first eight degrees of the sign it

is darker; one who is very lofty and proud spirited, aiming at
great things, austere and severe, and one who performs some
honorable exploits, and often becomes ennobled, or receives
titles, honorary distinctions, etc.

O in V3

113 Represents a mean stature, ill made, spare thin body,
oval face, sickly complexion, soft brown hair, not curling,
and if in the first six degrees of the sign, it is light brown
the party is just and honorable in his principles, a tolerably
fair temper, and gains love and friendship by his agreeable
conversation; one who is very hasty at times, and much
given to women.

O in £?

114 Describes a person of middle stature, well made, cor-
pulent body, round, full face, clear complexion, and light



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 1 1 5

brown hair, (in the term of Saturn, it is dark brown),. The
disposition tolerably good, free from malice or deceit, but
yet vain, proud, desirous of bearing- rule and ostentatious.

O in X
115 Gives a stature rather short, body plump and fleshy;

a round, full face, and indifferent complexion, light brown
hair, in the first eight degrees of the sign it is flaxen, and
very soft; the party is extremely partial to female society,
very effeminate, fond of pleasure, etc. , and though harmless
to others, ruins himself by extravagance, debauchery, gamb-
ing, intemperance, feasting, etc.

VENUS IN THE TWELVE SIGNS.

A Venus person is generally full built, near the medium height, has a

pleasant countenance, fond of music and the fine arts generally has
;

an oval face, round forehead, soft, expressive eyes, and a rather small
nose; He takes delight in music, fine arts and decoration, and if a man,
has an effeminate appearance, and is fond of female society.

$ in f
116 Describes a middle stature, rather tall and slender, light

hair, (if in the term of Jupiter, dark); good complexion, a
pensive aspect and usually a mark or scar in the face, (may
be marked more or less with small pox, according as Venus
is afflicted or not). They are generally unfortunate both
to themselves and others, unless Venus have a % or a
of 2£, O or J.

$ in 8

117 Gives a handsome person, though the stature is not
great, the body is extremely well made, plump but not gross
and if Venus be well aspected, they are very handsome, the
complexion is ruddy, but not fair; generally females are
handsome brunettes, and have much the form and figure of
the Venus de Medicis. The hair is generally brown, and if

Venus be in her own term, it is very soft and luxuriant; if in
the term of Jupiter it is a shining black. The eyes are gen-
erally black, and very expressive ; the temper is mild and
winning, the disposition, kind, humane, obliging, etc. They
generally gain much respect from those with whom they con-
verse, and are generally fortunate.

9 in n
118 Describes a person above the middle height, slender,

upright, and well made. The complexion, clear and fair,
with soft brown hair ; frequently brown or hazel eyes. They



;

Il6 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

are good humored, loving-

, liberal, just and charitable, and
rarely guilty of anything dishonorable.

$ in ®
119 Represents a short person, a fleshy body; round, pale

and sickly face, with light hair, and if the Moon be with
Venus, and they are in the ascendant, the face will be quite
white and wan, and the hair very light colored ; but if Venus
be in the term of Mars, the hair may be reddish, and a tinge
of color appear in the cheeks. They generally have small
grey or greenish eyes. The disposition is idle and dull, they
are fond of low company, and vicious pleasures and pursuits,
if it be a female of the poorer classes, she is a frequenter of
spirit shops, etc. They are fickle and timid, put the best
side outwards, and seem to be in earnest when they are not
ever mutable and inconstant.

$ in a
1 20 Gives a person reasonably tall of stature, well composed

body; clear complexion, round face, full eyes, freckled and
fair skin ; hair, reddish, or if in the term of Venus it may be
flaxen. They are petulant and passionate, soon angry and
soon pleased again: free, generous, sociable and good hu-
mored, but rather proud and frequently indisposed, though
not seriously.

9 in TOZ

121 Shows a tall, well proportioned figure, oval face, dark
hair, or if in her own term, sad brown, and a dusky complex-
ion. They are ingenious, eloquent, active and clever, of an
aspiring turn, but rarely successful in their pursuits; gener-
ally unfortunate.

$ in ^
122 Describes an upright tall, elegant person, extremely

well made, with a genteel carriage. The face is oval and
rather beautiful, having pleasing smiles and beautiful dim-
ples ; but they are frequently freckled. The hair is brown
and soft, and rather grows long than plentiful. They are
kind, affectionate and very obliging, and generally well be-
loved by all with whom they have any dealings. If Venus
be in the ascendant, and there be no afflicting aspects, and
Jupiter, cast a A from £?, the party, if a female, will be a
perfect beauty.

$ in m
1 23 Denotes a short, stout, well set, corpulent body, broad

face, and dusky complexion, and dark or black hair, (unless
Venus be in the terms of Mars or her own) ; one who has noth-
ing very pleasant in the countenance. They are envious,



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 1 1 J

debauched and vicious given to contention : and if Venus be
;

afflicted by Saturn or Mars to very disgraceful actions; and
if both Saturn and Mars, afflict and there be no assistance by
good aspect of Sun or Jupiter, they are possesed of very
evil propensities.

? in f

124 Represents a person rather tall than otherwise, well
made ; clear or sanguine complexion, fair oval face, brown
hair. They are generous, spirited, aiming at no mean things,
rather proud and passionate, yet are generally good tempered,
kind and inoffensive. They delight in innocent recreations,
and are in short very obliging, fortunate persons.

? in Y3

125 Describes a small sized person, short stature, a pale
face, thin and sickly ; with dark hair, (but if Venus be in her
own term, sad brown). They are generally persons who love
their belly, fond of enjoyment; not fortunate, subject to
sudden changes in life and strange catastrophes.

126 Gives a handsome well formed person, clear complex-
ion, rather corpulent or large body ; brown hair, if she be in
her own term, flaxen. A good disposition, quiet and affable,
courteous, not at all inclined to vicious actions, peaceable,
obliging to all : fortunate in his affairs and respected by his
friends and acquaintance in general.

? in X
127 Personates a middle stature, a fleshy plump body, a

round, full face, with a dimple in the chin, good complexion,
between pale and ruddy. Good humored, just, kind, mild
and peaceable ; ingenious, but somewhat unstable, yet mod-
erately fortunate in the world.

MERCURY IN THE TWELVE SIGNS.

A Mercury person is inclined to be slim, often above the medium neight,

active, talkative, fond of learning and studying; he generally makes a

good orator, editor or author, and often has some light occupation, such
as being a book-keeper, or being a clerk in a store ; has generally a thin

face, high forehead, sharp nose, dark hair, and rather dark complexion.
These remarks are only intended for persons described by £ when it

has no aspect to any other planet, but when in aspect to other planets,

it takes more of the nature of those planets that it is in aspect to, and
the person has to be dascribed accordingly.



8

1 1 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

^ in f
128 Gives a mean stature, spare and thin body, oval face,

light brown and curling hair, dull complexion. A mind
rather ill disposed ; addicted to dispute, to lie, steal and many
tricks, and unworthy actions ; in short, a mere knave.

V in 8
129 Gives a middle sized, corpulent, thick person, strong

and well set; swarthy and sun burnt complexion, dark, short
and thick hair. He is idle, slothful; one who loves ease and
gluttony, and who ruins himself among the female sex.

$ in n
130 Shows a straight, upright, tall body, well formed;

brown hair, good complexion, and a very intelligent look.
An ingenious, pregnant fancy, a good orator, a cunning law-
yer, or a clever book-seller : one who perfectly understands
his own interest, and (if Mercury be not afflicted) one who is

a subtle politician, not easily deluded by the most cunning
knave he may encounter.

£ in gp

131 Personates a low, short stature, an ill complexion, a
thin, sharp face, small eyes, sharp nose, dark hair; one who
is given to drink, light fingered, ill natured, dishonest, and
very deceitful and changeable; a very mean little wretch,
if Mercury be afflicted.

V in a
132 Gives a full, large body, and good stature, dull, swar-

thy sunburnt complexion ; light brown hair, round face, full

eyes, a broad or high nose. A hasty, proud, conceited, am-
bitious, boasting, contentious and troublesome character.

V in T1J2

133 Denotes a tall, slender, well proportioned person;
dark brown hair, (or if Mercury be in the terms of Jupiter or
Saturn, black hair) ; not a very clear complexion, a long vis-

age, and austere countenace. A very witty, ingenious, tal-

ented mind, and if Mercury be free from affliction, a profound
scholar or linguist and capable of any undertaking which
requires great ability.

£ in =£=

134 Personates a tall body, well made, but not thin; light
brown, smooth hair, a ruddy or sanguine complexion. A
just, virtuous, prudent man, a lover and promoter of learn-
ing, and having great natural abilities and many acquired
accomplishments.



Elements of astrology. 119

$ in TTi

135 Gives a short or low stature, full and stout built, but
ill made body, broad shoulders, swarthy dark complexion,
brown curling- hair. Not any way elegant or pleasing, yet
ingenious and studious, very careful of his own interest, fond
of the female sex, and partial to company and merry making.

S in £

136 Denotes a person of tall stature, well formed, not cor-
pulent, but rather large boned and spare; an oval face, a
large nose, and a ruddy complexion. A man who is hasty
but soon reconciled, rash in many things to his own injury,
yet well disposed, striving after honorable things, but seldom
attaining them, not very fortunate.

$ in V3

137 Gives a mean or small stature, often crooked or ill

made and bow-legged ; a thin face and figure, dusky com-
plexion, and brown hair. A very peevish, discontented, de-
jected, sickly feeble person, yet active; one who is unfortu-
nate to himself, and disagreeable to others, owing to his
suspicious nature, and ill temper.

g in &
138 Shows a person of middle height, rather fleshy and

corpulent ; a good complexion, and clear skin, with brown
hair, and full face. An ingenious, obliging character, inclined
to study, fond of arts and sciences, very inventive, and
remarkable for his talent, as well as being a humane, kind,
charitable person.

3 in X
139 Gives a short, dumpy figure, though if in his own

term or that of Saturn, rather thin, pale face, brown
hair, sickly look, and very hairy body. A very peevish, re-

pining, foppish person, addicted to wine and women, very
effeminate and contemptible.

THE MOON IN THE TWELVE SIGNS.
Persons described by the Moon are inclined to be full built or stout,

rather phlegmatic, are generally slow in motions, and do not care for

active business, they like to take things easy, and if a female, she is

generally indolent or slovenly ; they are more likely to be light

complexioned than dark. The above remarks are intended for Moon
persons, when that planet is not in aspect to any other planet.

J in T
140 Describes a person of indifferent stature, rather fleshy,

or plump round face, tolerably good complexion ; light brown



120 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

or flaxen hair. The mind is rash, angry, ambitious and
aspiring-

, often changing, and he undergoes, various muta-
tions in life, and is seldom fortunate.

$ in b
141 Gives a strong, corpulent, well set body, rather short;

rather good complexion, dark brown or black hair. A gentle,
obliging, kind, sober, just and honest man; one who gains
esteem, is much respected, and attains perferment according
to his station in life.

J) in n
142 Describes a tall, well formed, upright, comely person;

brown hair, good complexion, between pale and sanguine.
The mind is ingenious, yet crafty and subtle to excess, not
of the best disposition, nor very fortunate, unless other good
testimonies by aspects of Jupiter, Sun or Venus concur or
corroborate.

in
J) £p

143 Represents a middle stature, well proportioned and
fleshy person, a round, full face, pale and dusky complexion,
sad brown hair. The mind is flexible, given to change ; a
merry, easy, pleasant, disposition very harmless and peace-
able, fond of good company; one who is generally well
beloved and fortunate in most affairs ; unsteady but free from
passion or rash actions.

J) in ft

144 Denotes a person above the middle size, well propor-
tioned, strong and large boned, sanguine complexion, light
brown hair, large and prominant eyes and full face. A lofty,

proud, aspiring person, very ambitious and desirous to bear
rule, one who abhors servitude, or dependence, and is gener-
ally unfortunate.

J in TTD.

145 Describes a rather tall person, dark brown hair, oval
face, rather ruddy but tolerably clear complexion. An in-

genious, reserved, covetous, melancholy, unfortunate person,
not in general very well disposed, and one who seldom per-
forms any very commendable actions.

5> m —
146 Gives a tall, well composed body, with smooth, light

brown hair; handsome and pleasant, cheerful countenance,
fine red and white complexion. They are merry, jocund and
pleasant, and much admired by the female sex ; very fond of
amusements ; and if a female she is courted by numbers, yet



1 ;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 121

may be unfortunate, unless Venus the dispositor be very
strong" and well aspected, etc.

J) in m
147 Denotes a thick, short and ill shaped person, rather

fleshy; of an obscure complexion, dark hair, often black, es-
pecially if Moon be in the term of Jupiter or Saturn. They
are sottish and vulgar, malicious, brutish and treacherous, and
if it be a female she is generally infamous in her desires, and
if Moon be afflicted by the or g of Saturn or Mars, she is

openly scandalous.

J) in $
148 Represents a handsome, and well proportioned, rather

tall person ; oval face, sanguine complexion, rather bronzed
and bright brown or shining chestnut hair. The disposition
is good, open and generous, but hasty and passionate, yet
forgiving; one who aims at great things, is fortunate and
much respected by those with whom he associates.

J) in V3

149 Gives a person of low stature, a thin, small, weak body,
bad health and feeble, especially about the knees; small
features, black hair and dull complexion; one who is inac-
tive, dull not ingenious, generally very debauched in his
conduct, and held in low esteem by his companions, etc.

J) in JZf

150 Represents a middle sized person, well made, and
rather corpulent; brown hair, clear skin and sanguine com-
plexion. They are ingenious, affable, courteous and inoffen-
sive ; a lover of curious and scientific studies, having much
invention, and a person rarely guilty of unworthy actions.

in
J) X

1 5 Describes a person of a mean or low stature, but plump
or fat pale and bloated face, light brown hair and sleepy

;

eyes ; one not inclined to action, unless of the worse kind
unfortunate both to himself and others, given to drink.

N. B.—If Moon be well aspected, and in a good house, the
disposition is much improved.

After the student has become well acquainted with each of the planets

in the twelve signs of the Zodiac, he will then have to learn the conjunc-
tions and aspects of the planets. This part of Astrology becomes much
more complicated than that which he has already learned, as in each
case, he has two or more factors to deal with, and these factors are

liable to changes or variations, and it is sometimes very difficult to tell

which planet has the predominating influence; there are no special rules

for him to be guided by, and which are not liable to changes. This
part of Astrology can only be learned by constant practice and experience
in investigating horoscopes and horary astrology.



3 22 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

THE EFFECTS OF THE CONJUNCTIONS OF
URANUS WITH THE SEVEN PLANETS.

Iff is never the only significator in a nativity or in horary Astrology.
There is no question but that *> is lord of both \3 and £?. Nearly
one hundred years ago, when Jff was discovered by William Herschel,
a number of Astrologers in England and other parts of the world, allotted

Y3 for Iff's signs, and let *? only have the sign aS? for its sign. But
afterwards the Astrologers changed it about and gave Iff the sign £?, and
^ the sign V3.

The ancients have allotted both Y3 and £? to *> , as their ruling

planet; and as ^> has been recognized as lord of those two signs, and it

has been proved by the experience of thousands of years, that they are

the signs that T
<> rules, it is not advisable to be re-arranging the signs

and planets, every time a new planet is discovered.
There is no doubt but that Jff has a great influence in the sign £?,

especially when that sign is on the ascendant or 10th house, or Iff is in

that sign, or in aspect to it; also T^t has great influence in the sign T\\,

As remarkable events takes place when T^t is transiting that sign. These
two signs and n are the only signs that Iff has much influence in or

while transiting them, that I have been able to observe. I will speak
further on this subject in the latter part of this volume.

152 If Iff is in d with ^ , especially in the sign T or in the
ascendant, it causes a disfigurement or deformity of the face.
The parties are also very liable to accidents or narrow escapes,
especially if Iff is afflicted by an evil aspect in the midheaven.
Iff d T

<? in any si&n causes the native to be liable to many mis-
fortunes or accidents, especially if they are in angles ; every
seven years brings some misfortune or calamity.

If *> be significator, it makes the person very fond of in-

ventions and discoveries, especially connected with large
constructions, such as engines, bridges or large buildings,
and it is more than likely that he will make some great inven-
tion or discovery by which he will accumulate a large fortune.
The native may spend his whole life in establishing some
new society or new religion, and is willing to undergo much
persecution to accomplish that object; as in the case of
William Q. Judge trying to establish Theosophy. He had
the O d T? and Jff, all in the sign °p in the ascendant, in his
horoscope.

W d tt

153 If 1JC be in d with 2£ in any prominent position in a
horoscope, either the ascendant, midheaven, 1 ith or 7th house,
the native will gain by unlooked for events or legacies, and may



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. I23

become rich by means of wealthy friends, or by associating
with prominent people, such as governors, etc. He will have
great magnetism in controlling others; will be fond of new
discoveries or inventions of all kinds, and is certain to be a
leader of society, or be in some way prominent.

If U be significator, he meets with much treachery and
deceit from false friends or secrect enemies, especially from
the wealthy, the clergy and lawyers, and is likely to suffer
through his efforts in getting up some new religion, whic'i
will clash with Orthodoxy and Old Fogyism. Madam H. P.

Blavatsky had 1$ rf 2£ in the midheaven, and both in oppo-
sition to $ in the 4th house in her horoscope, although she
was born under the planet £ in the sign £3 in d with the ©.

¥ d $

154 If ¥ be in d with $ in cf , it makes the native hot-
headed, malicious and blood-thirsty, and inclines him to com-
mit some criminal act during some part of his life, by which
he suffers imprisonment or death. If ¥ is in d with S in
any other sign, it makes him willful, stubborn, and often
vindictive, especially in the ascendant or midheaven or 7th
house ; but at the same time he will be a person of good
abilities, given to daring deeds, often liable to accidents,
misfortune and injuries. '

If $ be significator, he will be very fond of inventions and
discoveries, and make a good carpenter or builder, but will
often be unsettled, and not remain long in one place, yet he
may be a good machinist, and make a reputation connected
with fire-arms, sharp instruments and inventions that other
people never thought of.

¥ d O
155 If ¥ be in the ascendant or midheaven, in d with the

O, it makes the person very ambitious and persevering, and
willing to suffer much to carry out any special hobby ; he
wants to be a governor or manager, or hold some high
position.

If O be significator, he will be a person of great ability,
fond of deep study and inventions, will take great delight in
the occult and mysterious; and will care but little for women
or female society ; his ambition is to get up some new form of
government, etc.

¥ d ?

156 If ¥ is in d with $ in the ascendant, midheaven, or
7th house, it makes the party indifferent to females, eccentric
and odd in dress and manners, and care but little for fashion



124 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

he will be fond of the odd or curious, and if an artist, will
draw pictures, showing the oddities of human nature ; will
care but little for money, and liable to meet with heavy
losses and disappointments.

If ? be significator, the native receives benefits from very
wealthy or prominent persons, and if she be strong in b =£= or
W, he is likely to make some great invention or discovery
that will immortalize his name, and cause him to become
famous and prominent, especially if these planets be in the
ascendant, 9th, 10th or nth houses.

¥ d *

157 If this aspect occurs in the midheaven or ascendant,
especially in the signs n TTJ2 =a= or $?, it makes the native a
great scholar, very fond of studying the occult sciences,
especially such as Mesmerism and Astrology, and is likely to
become prominent as a writer on those subjects.

If the rf occurs in °p ® V\ or V3, the native is likely to be
given to making frivolous discoveries or inventions, such as
perpetual motion, etc., and waste his time on useless subjects
that will bring him but little profit. It would also make him
addicted to speculation and games of chance.

If £ be significator, and it occurs in movable signs <¥> ® =£=

orV3, he is very unsettled, discontented, and dissatisfied with
almost everything, and very probable that he will travel in
foreign parts. If the ^ occurs in n nil =£= or $? he is likely

f

to be talented, and a great investigator of occult sciences;
also, it makes him liable to accidents or narrow escapes of
being killed, or unlooked for events, and at times very serious
misfortunes.

W d\J>
158 This (/ in a man's horoscope often makes him an old

bachelor, and if he does marry, he very seldom marries to
advantage, and generally leads an unhappy life, or they
separate, especially if the ^ occurs in the ascendant, mid-
heaven or 7th house. Is very likely to travel a great deal,
especially on water, yet if J and Jg. be strong in a good
house, he may at times become very prominent and wealthy,
but great danger of poverty overtaking him again. In a
female's horoscope, they are apt to never marry; be cranky,
or have odd ways, and not care for fashions.

If the J) be significator, the native is liable to travel a
great deal, will be like a rolling stone, and even if married,
will change his residence a number of times. The native is

fond of studying occult sciences ; has a great liking for spirit-

ualism, and everything connected with the mysterious. They



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 1 25

are very seldom practical people, and often live unhappy-
married lives. They have queer, odd ways, and few people
get along well with them. If married, either male or female,
they are very likely to separate. A male cares very little

for women, and a female is happier being an old maid, than
being married and having a family.

S d X
159 If T2 be significator, he gives the native inheritance

of estates, and profit by means of agriculture ; his disposition
is extremely moral and grave; he may gain a fortune by
merchandise, or possibly by preaching.

160 If 21 be significator, the disposition is not so good.
The native seldom meets with much success in the world.
He is very niggardly, and generally acquires property by
some selfish and unusual means, though he seldom enjoys it

like other persons. He generally lives hated by every one
for his mean and deceitful ways, and dies in obscurity.

161 If $ be in square to the significator, and in aspect
with Mercury, he is generally duped of his property, and
dies a miserable death.

T
? d &

162 If *? be significator, the native is of a rash, turbulent
disposition, and generally very unfortunate; very often
engaged in some public calling of the lowest order, and
frequently ends his days in prison.

163 If $ be significator, the disposition is equally bad, but
not quite so rash, being more sly and cowardly. Sometimes
he gains favor from elderly persons, who assist him with their
property, which he generally loses in the end, and becomes
very unfortunate, especially if the significators be under the
earth.

^d o
164 If born under T

? , it signifies losses to the native by
fire (especially if they be in a firey sign), or by men in power,
who persecute him, and confine him within the walls of a
prison for contempt of the law; and he is seldom healthy or
of long life.

165 If O be significator, the native is generally very dis-
agreeable, deceitful, mistrustful and unfortunate, always
losing his property by some speculation, which, in the end,
often , brings him to ruin, particularly if the native has
anything to do with the government or persons connected
with the state.



126 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

^ d ?

1 66 Shows gain to the native, if signified by T
? , by means

of ladies, and to a considerable extent, he is attached to them.
Greatly addicted to pleasure, and very fortunate where
females are concerned. If he is a man of property, he often
wastes most of it by gambling or pleasure.

167 If $ be significator, the native is very artful, sly, un-
fortunate, destitute of friends, often disappointed of benefits
by death, and he loses considerably by persons older than
himself, especially if he be in trade.

^ d B

168 If "*> be significator, the native is subtle and crafty,
fond of researches into antiquity; one of much gravity and
considerable learning, though not always of the most agree-
able personal manners.

169 If $ be significator, he is dull, suspicious, mean, cow-
ardly, calculating and covetous. Should he turn his attention
to literature, he may gain some knowledge, although with
great labor; and should he become an author, his writings
may bring him into lawsuits or imprisonment.

^ d J
170 If *> be significator, the person is restless and unsettled

in his purposes, and often changes his residence. He is not
very fortunate, though he may sometimes benefit by the
lower order of females.

171 If 5> be significator, he is poor, miserable and dejected,
of an unpleasant and sullen disposition, extremely unfortun-
ate, and uncommonly covetous, though possessing scarcely
any property. With much suspicious caution, he frequently
commits the most unaccountable errors in affairs of the
greatest consequence ; as through excess of prudence, he is

very likely to doubt and deliberate in the moment of action.

U d $

172 If 11 be significator, the native is bold, proud, and
ambitious ; fond of martial exploits and enterprises ; a good
soldier or surgeon, though he may lose much by strife and
contention, and sometimes receive wounds in quarrels.

173 If $ be significator, he is good, pious and just. He is

eminently successful in the law and the church, and often
makes a fortune by those means.



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 12?

K d ®
174 If % be significator, the native is weak, servile and

credulous. He incurs the displeasure of men in power, by
whom he is much oppressed, and often ruined. He has bad
health; and is generally a vain, talkative character, indulg-
ing in fanciful speculations about religion and other matters,
for which he is totally unqualified.

175 If © be significator, the power of Jupiter is so much
destroyed by the power of the Sun, that he has but very little

effect ; though the party will, in general, be very much given
to leligion, which, if Jupiter, be well dignified in other
respects, and not ill aspected will be sincere ; otherwise he is

fanatical or hypocritical.

K d ?

176 If 71 be significator, it promises the greatest happi-
ness. The native is highly favored by the female sex, by
whose means he gains great advancement. He is rich, pros-
perous, and fortunate ; very healthy, and greatly admired and
respected. It shows great personal beauty.

177 If $ be significator, it denotes great beauty of person
(unless Venus be in Scorpio or Capricorn), also riches,
honors, ecclesiastical preferment, tue person so represented
is truly virtuous, pious, kind and beneficent to all, with the
greatest goodness of heart, and a disposition that will
command universal love and esteem.

K d v

178 If IX be significator, it denotes a person of great learn-
ing, a good lawyer or divine of excellent abilities and much
information.

179 If $ be significator, he is mild, humane, religious,
fond of literature, possessing an elegant mind, and a gentle,
engaging disposition ; he is raised to eminence and protected
by powerful patrons. He accumulates great riches, and is

in general extremely fortunate.

U d J>

180 If % be significator, the person so represented is
restless and' changeable and seldom sufficiently settled to
procure much wealth. He is, on the whole, very fortunate
often gains considerably by marriage, and is a general
favorite with the fair sex. He is a great traveller, and is
eminently successful in maritime affairs and among seamen,
shipping, etc.



128 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.
•

181 If $ be signific itor, he is fortunate, in ecclesiastical

affairs or among mercantile men, magistrates, etc. He
obtains great wealth, though he is liable to losses, frequently
by canting or hypocritical persons who impose upon his natural
kindness and generosity of disposition. He nas, however,
too much good fortune to be injured by those persons to any
serious extent.

$ d o
182 If $ be significator, the native is in danger by fire,

lightning, or infectious fever. It has been said in this case,

with great truth, he has the favor of kings and princes, and
it may be their frowns too, to his utter undoing. He may rise

hastily, but perhaps to a great precipice where he meets a
fall.

183 If O be significator, the native is brave, but headstrong
and violent. He will probably attain some considerable rank
in the army or navy ; but he will be frequently wounded, and
most probably die in battle or be killed by some accident or
fall, or be a victim to some contagious fever.

$ d ?

184 If £ be significator, the native is kind and gentle;
upon the whole, though at times rather hasty, he is moder-
ately fortunate, extremely fond of women, and not always
very particular as to their respectability.

185 If $ be significator, he is wicked and debauched, a
companion of prostitutes, from whom he generally receives
great injury; a drunkard, frequently brawling in taverns or
low public nouses, though he may sometimes meet with good
fortune, he will quickly dissipate whatever property he may
possess in the company of the most worthless of mankind.

3 d $

186 If $ be significator, it represents the native as pos-
sessed of considerable ability, a skilfull mechanic, or a good
mathematician, one of an acute sarcastic wit. If he be in
the army or navy, for which he is well qualified, he obtains
great reputation for his bravery, and is distinguished still

more for the policy of his measures. He is never very
scrupulous as to the means he employs, and will pay but
little respect to persons or possessions of others, when he
can gain any advantage by sacrificing them to his own
interest.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 1 29

187 If £ be significator, he makes a cheat or swindler, a
thief, robber or treacherous miscreant, a frequenter of gam-
bling houses, rash, furious and blood-thirsty.

N. B.—Any evil aspect of Saturn increases these evils, and
a good aspect of Sun, Jupiter or Venus will much diminish
them.

$ d 3
188 If $ be significator, it shows one of an unsettled life

and temper, and a favorite of females; he is frequently
a wandering adventurer, more remarkable for the variety of
his fortune than his success or abilities. He is likely to die
in a strange country.

189 If J) be significator, he is a bold, enterprising charac-
ter ; frequently in great danger of a violent death, quarrel-
some and given to dueling, etc. He may be a good surgeon
or soldier, and is seldom noted for much humanity. If a
female, she is extremely likely to be seduced.

o d ?

190 If be significator, it denotes one of soft and effemi-
nate manners, a pleasing address, a great admirer of the
ladies. He is too much given to extravagance and dissipation.

191 If $ be significator, he is of short life, unfortunate and
oppressed, too sickly to make much exertion, very proud and
extravagant.

o d v

192 If O be significator, it gives some ingenuity, but not
much sound judgment.

193 If £ be significator, he represents a person of mean
and shallow abilities, one addicted to fraud and deception,
incapable of learning anything which requires memory or
judgment, and extremely superstitious. He may succeed well
in trade or business, but for study he is wholly unqualified.

Q d 3
194 If O be significator, it represents a restless and change-

able person, who aims at great things, but seldom accom-
plishes them.

195 If J be significator, the native is extremely unfor-
tunate, and generally sickly and unhappy, dejected and
oppressed by men in power. He is rash and violent, subject
to burns and scalds, and has frequently some defect in the
eyes; and if the (j happen near the Hyades, Pleiades or



;;

I^O ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Praespe, he is likely to be nearly blind. If the Moon be
applying-

, he is in danger of death, especially if it happens in
the 8th house, or Sun be lord of the 8th house ; but if Moon
be separating, the danger is not so great.

? d S

196 If $ be significator, it represents one who is polite,
mild and courteous, fond of the elegant branches of literature,
a pleasant companion, a favorite of females, and one of an
excellent disposition.

197 If g be significator, he excels in any pursuit that
requires taste, a good painter, an excellent poet or musician
of a very humane disposition, and of the most prepossessing
appearance.

? d i>

198 If $ be significator, it renders a man very mutabale
and uncertain ; often promising, through goodness of dispo-
sition, much more than he is capable of performing.

—199 If $ be significator, he is of an easy, happy, disposi-
tion, with little care beyond the enjoyment of the present
moment; a great proficient in all elegant amusements, and
of an easy and genteel address.

V d 3
200 If $ be significator, the native is possessed of great

abilities, though generally very unsteady in his pursuits. He
frequently travels in some literary capacity.

201 If $ be significator, the effects are not very different
his intellectual powers are of the first order; he is much
attached to learning, and gains great reputation by his
abilities.

202 N. B.—It must be most carefully observed, whether
these planets have any other familiarity at the same time, for
should Herschell, Saturn or Mars be in square, it will make
a most remarkable difference. Indeed, this must be scrupu-
lously attended to in all cases, but especially when Venus,
Mercury or Moon may be significator.

After the student has learned well the rf of the planets, he must also

learn the % and A aspects. This part of Astrology is more abstruse,

as there are not only the qualities of two or more planets, but also the

qualities of two signs to be learned, which often makes it quite compli-
cated and conflicting. The same remarks apply to the or ^.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. I3I

OF THE * AND a ASPECTS OF THE
SIGNIFICATORS.

203 As I have stated before, I cannot conceive of any per-
son being born entirely under the planet Jp, yet if that planet
is in the ascendant, it has more influence over the native than
any other planet in the first house, or even the lord of the
ascendant. In the following mental qualities and disposition,
I shall only give the indications of T$ being in aspect to the
other planets, significator or significators.

W * or A ^

204 This aspect makes the native inclined to be cunning
and inquisitive, and apt to over-reach others, he is also fond
of the occult and deep studies ; will make a good civil engineer,
but is somewhat eccentric and reserved.

IE * or A %
205 The native is very ambitious to become in some way

prominent before the community; he is generous, noble-
minded, and often successful by being appreciated and
assisted by those strongly influenced by 2£ in their horoscopes.
He generally is striving to establish some new religion, or
in some way to better the condition of the community, either
socially or morally, and he sometimes does much good in
that way ; as he is a man of extensive knowledge and influ-

ence, and of a broad liberal mind.

i* or A $

206 Makes the native subtle, witty, highly ingenious, pene-
trative and active. Is fond of great constructions, such as
large buildings, machinery ; also very fond of mechanics of all

kinds, particularly inventions. Likely to make some inven-
tion that will cause him to become renowned, especially
fire-arms or destructive implements.

W * or A O
207 Causes a person to be very domineering, has very little

feeling for others, is inclined to go on the principle of rule or
ruin. Yet the native is inclined to be at times generous and
of extraordinary abilities. He will excel in the occult and
mysterious, such as Astrology, Astronomy and Chemistry;
is also likely to make some new discovery or invention.



I32 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

¥ % or A ?

208 Makes the native very artistic, but eccentric and con-
ceited. Has a strong- admiration for the beautiful ; is also
fond of the occult sciences, and likely to be a teacher of those
subjects, or a writer on the same, and, if a female, may have
very good clairvoyant powers.

W * or A $

209 Causes the native to be very ingenious, studious, in-
quisitive and an observer of human nature ; with remarkable
talent for science. He possesses original ideas, and if £
and 33 are in airy signs it causes the native to be quick in
intellectual culture, and excel as an educator, and is very
penetrating into the mysterious or occult.

W * or A J
210 Causes the native to be changeable, fond of traveling,

inclined to be wayward and eccentric, very fond of curiosities.
Likely to take up what are called abstruse sciences, such as
Magic, Astrology, Theosophy, etc. ; and, at the same time,
he is a person of remarkably good intellect.

^ % or A 21

211 If *> be significator, it gives riches by means of
agriculture, and the native is of a sedate and religious
disposition.

212 If 2£ be significator, he is extremly grave, and
frequently gains riches by legacies or mining.

^ * or A $

213 If ^ be the significator, it increases the courage of the
person so signified, and renders him more open in his
resentment.

214 If & be significator, he is prudent and cautious,
bigoted in religion, and should other aspects befriend Mars,
he may gain an estate.

^ * or A O
215 If T2 be significator, the native is generous and noble,

though somewhat austere in his behavior.

216 If O be significator, he is ostentatious, boastful and
conceited ; he may be expected to gain by legacies, or to be
successful as a farmer.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. I33

t? * or A ?

217 If ^ be significator, he is prodigal and extravagant,
wasting his money among females.

218 If ? be significator, he is modest, shy and retired in
his manners ; he gains the favor of elderly people, and some-
times inherits their property.

^ * or A $

219 If ^ be significator, it gives ingenuity and subtlety,
though such talents are generally employed to little purpose.

220 If £ be significator, he is very cautious and prudent,
and is addicted to the study of arts and sciences.

^ % or A ~|

221 If ^ be significator; the native is changeable, jealous
and mistrustful.

222 If J be significator, he is vain and conceited, mean in
his actions, though without the excuse of rashness, as he
does nothing without much deliberation.

U * or A $

223 If 71 be significator, it gives bravery, and the spirit of
military adventure ; he is a good soldier, surgeon or chemist.

224 If $ be significator, he is noble, generous, and ambi-
tious, and will rise rapidly in the army.

% * or A O
225 If li be significator, it makes one extremely fortunate

and very noble and courageous in his disposition.

226 If O be significator, he gains money rapidly, is always
respected, and possesses a most excellent disposition.

U * or A ?

227 If li be significator, it causes beauty, love, riches, and
real goodness of heart ; this is the most fortunate aspect that
can be formed.

228 If $ be significator, the person is virtuous, aimable, of
a noble disposition, incapable of fraud or malice.

U * or A $

229 If li be significator, it gives great learning, sound
judgment and excellent abilities.

230 If £ be significator, he possesses solid sense, an open
generous disposition and real good fortune.



* 34 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

U *or A J
231 If % be significator, it makes a man very fortunate,

beloved by females and respected by the poorer classes of
society.

232 If J) be significator, he is just and charitable, sincere
in his friendships, and generous to the full extent of his
means.

$ * or A O
233 If $ be significator, it gives a very noble disposition

and great mind, it causes one to rise rapidly in the army ; he
is uncommonly successful in war, and will gain much by the
patronage of men in power.

234 If O be significator, it confers great bravery and a
high spirit ; he rises to granduer by means of his courage,
and is invincible in military talents.

$ * or a ?

235 If $ be significator, it causes lewdness and dissipation;
his disposition is not radically bad, but he is extremely
thoughtless and improvident ; he may gain by females, for
he possesses a fascinating influence, which he never fails to
exert to the utmost with the female sex.

236 If ? be significator, he is handsome but proud, rash
and inconsiderate ; and neither remarkable for prudence nor
principle.

$ * or A g

237 If $ be significator, this aspect gives great acuteness,
penetration and learning, the native, however, is crafty,
rather hasty, and extremely confident.

238 If be significator, he possesses great courage, is very
ingenious in any mechanical trade, a good engraver or
mathematician, and will succeed in anything that requires
presence of mind and a quick intellect.

If Mercury receive any aspect of Herschell, the native is

extremely fitted to become a good astrologer, especially if

Moon assist Mercury by * or A aspect, but a d or ^ is better
than no aspect of J) and £ .

$ * or a J
239 If $ be significator, it makes one restless and change-

able, servile and talkative; he travels much, and receives
much assistance from females.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 135

240 If $ be significator, he is very passionate and change-
able, with a high spirit and good abilities.

O * or A J
241 If O be significator, it confers riches and honor; the

native is fortunate with women, and is much respected by
the multitude.

242 If be significator, he is proud and aspiring; he is
J)

generally successful, but his fortune is not permanent, unless
both Sun and Moon be in fixed signs.

$ * or A £

243 If $ be significator, this aspect gives ingenuity,
subtlety and good nature.

244 If £ be significator, the native possesses a refined and
accomplished mind ; he is neat in his person and elegant in
his manners; a lover of music and the fine arts in general.

$ * or A J)

245 If $ be significator, it is a very fortunate aspect, it

shows a person who is much assisted by female friends, and
one who, though unstable, often obtains considerable property.

246 If ~§) be significator, the native is gentle, obliging,
amiable and genteel in his manners, and is much admired by
females ; whose condition in life depends on the strength or
debility of Venus.

$ * or A J)

247 If £ be significator, the person signified, is witty,
ingenious, subtle, easily learning anything to which he
applies, and frequently acquiring many sciences without
assistance. He is somewhat reserved and a little melancholy,
but from his extensive knowledge is always a useful, and
sometimes a pleasant companion.

248 If J) be significator, this is the most favorable aspect
for learning or scientific speculation.

THE EFFECTS OF THE n OR g ASPECTS
BETWEEN THE SIGNIFICATORS.

¥ or i>
<?

249 It makes the native crafty, malicious, wayward, stub-
born, and often very eccentric, and fond of uncommon subjects
and mysteries. If the planets be in angles or cardinal signs it

makes him an enthusiast ; he often commences rash under-
takings, which are likely to lead him into disaster, and may



I36 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

land him in prison or disgrace. He will be fond of the occult,
and may make a good clairvoyant.

¥ or c? 2f

250 Causes the native to be an enthusiast in reforms in poli-
tics, religions or creeds, and is likely to often come to grief
through them ; meets with much opposition and many crosses
and disappointments; he is likely to be grave, serious and
thoughtful, especially if his planet be in cardinal signs,
angles or fixed signs ; he is also likely to meet with much
treachery.
Samuel J. Tilden had 1§L n li in his horoscope, which no

doubt caused him to be cheated out of the Presidency after
he was elected by the people (as J^t was in the 12th house,
the house of secret enemies, and 21 on the cusp of the 9th
house, the house of law).

¥ or <? $

251 Makes the native precipitant, irregular and impulsive;
he is eccentric, rash, daring and ambitious, and fond of the
occult, also of electricity and chemistry. It sometimes
causes the native to be full of hatred and destructive
vehemence. These qualities are particularly strong if they
occur in either the 1st, 3rd, 9th or 10th houses, or in cardinal
or fixed signs ; they are likely to cause the native to be a great
inventor, especially in fire-arms, or destructive implements,
large engines or constructions of any kind.

¥ or c? ©
252 Causes the native to meet with many obstacles and

difficulties ; he is also eccentric and liable to heavy losses and
disappointments, and have opposing influences to contend
with ; he may become famous and renowned, but it will be
after much opposition, and after having overcome many
obstacles and difficulties. Sometimes he becomes famous on
account of his opposition to established creeds or religions,
or old fogyism, and sometimes he rises by other people's
misfortunes, especially if this aspect occurs in cardinal or
fixed signs, or in angles. Robert G. Ingersoll has ¥ in
his horoscope in the midheaven in close £ to the O in the
4th house in fixed signs. Jay Gould had ¥ in the midheaven
in close to the O rising. Charles Dickens had ¥ in TT[ in

to the O in £? both in fixed signs. Horace Greely had ¥
in tf 5 in the sign ~tt[ in the midheaven, and both in to
the O rising in the ascendant in $? all in fixed signs. In my
own horoscope ip: is in the 7 th house in zv in to the O in the
midheaven in tf , both in angles and fixed signs, which aspect
has caused me to have many powerful and bitter enemies.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 1 37

¥ or c? ?

253 Causes the native to have a keen appreciation of natural
beauty. Is apt to be jealous in love affairs, fond of the
opposite sex, often to his own ruin. If a male, is not success-
ful in dealing- with females. Has a keen appreciation of
grace and delicacy of form. Is very fond of the occult and
mysterious, and may become noted as a public lecturer or
teacher on those subjects. The natives are very liable to be
old maids or bachelors, or if married not continue to live
with their partners, or if they do, it is under protest.

¥ n or <? Q
254 The native is eccentric, imaginative, instinctive, and

often possesses good judgment, especially if those planets be
in airy signs, cardinal signs or in angles, but if either of them
are in weak or watery signs, it causes the native to be
erratic, and have but indifferent ability. Is likely to try to
discover perpetual motion, or want to become famous as a
rain maker; and lacks intuitive observation and instinctive
judgment. He believes in some of the most absurd dogmas,
and be skeptical of some of the simplest and demonstrative
problems. He is likely to have curious notions on govern-
ment, marriage, financial, political or domestic life, and may
try to establish communities.

¥ or c? )
255 Makes the native mutable, fond of change, often way-

ward and impulsive generally becomes a wanderer, or a great
;

traveller, and but seldom remains in one place or position.
But if either of these planets be in w =g= or n it causes the
native to have considerable ability, and be fond of obstruse
sciences, and sometimes excelling in learning or discoveries,
or receiving new ideas. If either of these planets be in
cardinal or fixed signs, or angles, he may become prominent,
or in some way noted on account of his odd and eccentric
manners, and be at times almost regarded as a lunatic. Em-
porer William II, of Germany, was born under the Moon, in
TTi in close g to ¥ in « both fixed signs.

^ or <? 21

256 If h be significator, it shows much trouble by lawyers
or the clergy.

257 If
^ % be significator, he is always wretched and miser-

able, idle, unfortunate and beggarly.

^ or 8 &
258 If *> be significator, it is the aspect of cruelty and

murder, and the person so signified, is extremely unfortunate ;



I38 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

he generally lives a most dejected life, and dies a violent
death.

259 If £ be significator, the person shown by him is very
malicious, treacherous and blood-thirsty; one delighting in
the most evil deeds, yet very cowardly, sly and inclined to
suicide, and secret revenge, and has a cruel disposition

260 If ^ be significator, it is the aspect of infamy and
contempt, the person is prodigal, ambitious, overbearing,
hating control, very disagreeable in his manners, extremely
unfortunate, subject to the frowns of persons in power, and
often meets a violent death.

261 If O be significator, the person is cowardly, spiteful,

treacherous, malicious, unfeeling, covetous, repining, always
despising anything of kindness and humanity; one who
generally leads a life of wretchedness, and frequently meets
with a bad end, and sometimes dies in prison.

^ or § ?
262 If ^ be significator, it shows dissipation, and the

person leads a most detestable life, connected with the lowest
order of prostitutes, by whom he is eventually brought to

ruin and disgrace.

263 If $ be significator, the person is generally of an evil

disposition, and not very handsome, is sly, artful, full of
mischief, and much addicted to dissipation, though not
suspected ; but generally unfortunate.

T
? or g V

264 If y
2 be significator, it indicates a thief, cheat or

swindler, a low, cunning fellow, sly, envious, treacherous
and malicious ; one who is always planning some scheme to
deceive his most intimate friends generally forming a bad

;

opinion of every one, and not ,at all particular as to speaking
the truth.

265 If g be significator, the person is very artful, always
involved in strife and contention, and much given to vilify

the character of others, by whom he is tormented with law-
suits; it also indicates pettifogging attorneys, who seldom act
honestly towards their clients.

^> or § J)

266 If t? be significator, it shows a wandering, unsettled
and changeable person, not of a genteel form, but one who
is down-looking and inclined to stoop forward, always very
fretful and appearing full of trouble, not a good disposition,



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. I39

not to be depended on. He seldom attains any high situa-
tion, but if he does, he soon falls into disgrace again.

267 If be significator (which in some measure she always
J)

is of the native), the person is extremely unfortunate, always
in trouble with the lower order of mankind, from whom he
receives many inquiries; he is mean, cowardly and very
dejected, is rather unhealthy, seldom living a long life, and
generally dying a a miserable death.

U or c? $

?68 If U be significator, it denotes violence, ingratitute, a
furious temper, and danger of death by malignant fevers.

269 If $ be significator, it shows pride, ingratitude, inso-
lence, and the hatred of the clergy on account of theological
opinions.

U or c? ©
270 If 11 be significator, it gives arrogance, prodigality and

much vanity, with a great desire to be distinguished, which
is but very rarely gratified.

271 If O be significator, the person represented wastes his
property by riotous living and all kinds of extravagance.

U nor S ?

272 It 2£ be significator, it shows extravagance, dissipation
and all kinds of debauchery and intemperance.

273 If $ be significator, the person has many enemies
among the clergy and legal profession, magistrates, etc.,

and he is equally void of virtue and prudence.

U D or <? $

274 If li be significator, it gives trouble, contention, per-
plexities, lawsuits, and in consequence, indigence.

275 If £ be significator, the person is frequently persecuted
for his singular religious opinions; his understanding is

weak, and he is often involved in strife and contention.

% or § J)

276 If 21 be significator, it shows one of many words,
though of poor abilities ; he is weak and foolish, and if in a
public capacity, is execrated by the multitude.

277 If }) be significator, he is injured by faithless friends
and deceitful relatives, and his property is impoverished by
hypocritical fanatics.

$ D or <? O
278 If $ be significator, he is a man of great ambition and

violence, but his evil fortune will not allow him to succeed.



l^O ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

279 If O be significator, he is restrained by no principle of
honor or gratitude, his affairs are always deranged, and he
makes use of the most violent means to retrieve them. Such
a one frequently becomes a footpad, murderer or house-
breaker, and is either killed in some contest, or falls a victim
to the laws of the country.

S or <? ?

280 If $ be significator, these aspects cause lust, excess,
prodigality and injury by loose women, and complete waste
of fortune.

281 If $ be significator, he is very treacherous, mischiev-
ous, base and inconstant; or if it be a female, she is a
prostitute or very shameless.

282 If $ be significator, it shows one of some ability, but
his talents are applied to the most dishonorable purposes.

283 If £ be significator, it denotes a thief or assassin; one
whose most solemn protestations are not to be believed ; who
will desert his benefactors at their utmost need ; he is violent,
furious, contentious, and despised by every one for his
infamous life.

$ n or (? J
284 If $ be significator, the native, described by him, is

a fit companion for the lowest and most unprincipled of man-
kind ; he is very unfortunate, and is probably a wandering
vagabond, who travels over the earth without a friend or a
home.

285 If J) be significator, he is excessively abusive, mali-
cious and treacherous. He may travel into foreign countries
as a sailor or soldier, amidst innumerable dangers and
hardships, and die by pestilence, dysentery, or the sword.

D or (f )
286 If O be significator, the person suffers losses, trouble

and much anxiety.

287 If J be significator, he is obstinate and quarrelsome;
he is exceedingly ambitious and prodigal, and is sometimes
marked in the face, or his eyes are affected; the latter is

especially the case if the Sun be afflicted by Mars, or either
Sun or Moon are with the nebulous stars.

? or £ }
288 If $ be significator, it shows a changeable, unsettled

life, great trouble in marriage, and much ill fortune.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. I4I

289 If J be significator, it shows a dissolute, extravagant
life, attended with indigence and poverty, and much trouble
from females.

3 D or c? J
290 If £ be significator, it no doubt gives some abilities,

but such persons are too unsettled to apply very closely to
any subject; they are continually shifting their situations
(especially if Mercury be in a movable sign), nor are they
very sincere in their professions of friendship, nor very
scrupulous in the method by which they may attain their
ends.

291 If ^ be significator, they have a defect in their utter-
ance, have but little ability, except a kind of low cunning,
which they apply to dishonest purposes. But as Mercury is

acted on by every planet having an aspect to him, it will be
necessary to observe each aspect and allow for its influences,
for if Mercury or the Moon have a trine of Jupiter, the square
of Mercury to Moon will not be near so evil, though the per-
son will be far from sensible, notwithstanding, that they are
tolerably honest and well-meaning.

Observation.—The student must always remember, that
the true character and condition of the person signified, can
only be correctly learned by noticing all the aspects the
significator may receive, as well as observing the nature of
the sign and house it is in, and the degree of strength or
weakness it possesses, as well as those planets which aspect
it. Thus if the significator be Mars, and he receive the
opposition of Sun, yet if Sun be weak, and Mars have also a
trine of Jupiter, this benefic planet being strong, he may
judge that the native will suffer by the evil influence of Sun,
by receiving a severe wound in a duel, or in honorable war-
fare ; whereas, if instead of the trine of Jupiter, the square
of Mercury occurred, there would be little doubt, that he
would be killed by police officers, or die by the hand of the
public executioner; the latter especially, if Sun was in the
10th house.

PRACTICAL ASTROLOGY.
Having in the foregoing pages given an outline of Astrology, which

outline the reader should read over and over until he knows it by heart,

or can repeat any passage without looking in the book similar to a min-
ister of the Gospel, who can repeat almost any passage in the Bible
without looking at the chapter and verse.

After the student is able to repeat any of the foregoing rules in

Astrology as 2£ in the sign f , or $ in the sign T, he should then try

to mix or combine these rules, as a painter mixes the different colors of



'

142 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

his paints until he knows the particular shade or tint that any two colors

when so mixed will produce, when painting any special object or likeness
;

so the young student of Astrology should know the effect that the various

aspects of the planets, either good or evil will produce. He should
also learn the different signs and the kind of persons they will describe;
if on the ascendant or first house, and not occupied by any planet;
also the characteristic of the planets themselves when they are in any
sign or house, and notice whether they are angular, succeedem. 01 cadent,
and whether the planet is weak or strong in that sign or house.

But before the reader can make much headway in learning the various
combinations, it will be necessary for him to learn how to erect a map
ol the heavens, nativity or horoscope, as it is at times called, for any
particular hour and minute of either day or night and for any longitude
or latitude on the rdobe.

<—

In order to do this he will require a table of houses for the place or
latitude for which he wishes to set the map of the heavens ; he will also

require an ephemeris or astrological almanac which gives the longitude,
latitude and declination of the Sun, Moon, and different planets referred

to in the preceding pages, for the year he wishes to cast the horoscope.

Raphael's Almanac and Ephemeris published in London, England, is

considered the best. I do not know of any astrological ephemeris pub-
lished in the United States.

RULE TO SET A MAP OF THE HEAVENS.
First.—Having procured the ephemeris for the year desired, then

learn in the same ephemeris what was the right ascension of the Sun, at

the noon previous to the required time,* in hours, minutes and seconds.

To this right ascension add the number of hours and minutes that

have elapsed since that noon. The sum of both will be the right ascen-

sion in time of the meridian or midheaven. Then procure a table of
houses for the latitude of the place for which the student wishes to erect

his map of the heavens.

Second.—Find the longitude answering to this right ascension (or

sidereal time) in the first column of the table of houses for the latitude

required, and opposite in the next column he will find the number re-

quired, and on top of page the number 10, meaning the loth house, which
longitude is to be marked over the line on top of the blank map which
d motes he midheaven or 10th house, together with the sign in the

column under the figure 10.

Third.—In a line with this 0:1 the top of the column will be fouud
the 11th, 12th, 1st, 2nd and 3rd houses, which he must copy on the

same horizontal line as the 10th house, and enter over the lines which
have thoss numbers in the blank map of the heavens and on the lines,

which denote those respective houses.

* In the ephemeris published of late years the right ascension of the Sun is given in the third

column of the ephemeris headed sidereal time (or star time), and the student does not have to add
when the clock is too slow, or subtract when too fast, according to the Sun, as he had to do in the
old ephemeris.



.

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. I43

Horoscope oj the Inauguration of Hon. William McKinley.
Take the time President McKinley took the oath of office on March

4th, 1897, at 1:18 P. M., Washington, D. C, for an example.
In Raphael's Ephemeris for 1897, if the reader turns to March 4th,

on a line with that in the next column under the heading Sidereal Time,
he will find 22 hours, 50 minutes and 2 seconds. If he adds the 1 hour
and 1 8 minutes that have elapsed since noon to that sum he will get 24:08.
As 24 hours complete a day, he rejects the number 24, and turns to the

table of houses for New York*, which is near the latitude of Washington,
in the first column on first page, he will find under the Sidereal Time,
o hours, 7 minutes and 20 seconds, and on a line with that, the figure 2

in the column, and on the top of the column the figure 10 which means
the 10th house, and immediately under it the sign Aries T

The sign T and the number 2 he copies in the blank map, over
the line marked 10. Go to the next column and find, on the top,

1 1 and Taurus ( & ), which means the 1 lth house, and the sign 8 and on
the line with 0-7-20 he will find the figure 8, copy the sign 8 and figure 8,

over the line marked 1 1, in the map on page 144. And on the same line

he will find 17 and on the top of the column 12 Gemini (LT.)» ne enters the

sign n and 17 over the line marked I2*in the blank map. In the next
column he finds on the top the words "Ascend," meaning the Ascendant or
first house, and underneath the sign Cancer (®) he copies the sign 23 and
20:22 over the line marked 1, or first house. On the next column the

figure 10 and on the top of the column the figure 2 and the sign Leo ( Si ),

the figure 2 means second house. Copy the sign Si and figure 10 on the

end of the line marked 2 in the blank map. In the next column he will

find the figure 3, and top of the column 3, and under it the sign Virgo
(TT£). Copy TT£ and number 3 at the end of the line in the blank map
marked 3.

These six houses are called the Eastern houses, and he copies what
are termed the opposite signs or the six Western houses, which are the

4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th. The student must learn what signs are

always opposite each other.

The Eastern and Northern signs are °f> , & , II, £d, Si, TTQ..

The Western and Southern signs are =£=, Tf|, $ , V3, £?, X-
Therefore the student will copy Libra (=^=) and number 2 on the line

marked 4 in the blank map, and Scorpio (TI|)and number 8 at the

end of the line marked 5 in the map, and Sagittary ( $ ) and
number 17 on the end of line marked 6 in the map. And Capricorn

(V3) 20:22 on the end of line marked 7 in blank map. And Aquarius
(>£?) and 10 at the end of line marked 8, and Pisces X and number 3
at the end of line marked 9.

After the signs of the Zodiac are put in their proper positions and
the number of degrees and minutes put with each sign, so as to show
how many degrees of that sign has ascended or descended beyond what
is termed the cusp of any given house. Then proceed to calculate the

*
,

* In Raphael's Ephemeris for each year, on pages 30 and 31, the student will find a "Table
of Houses " for Latitude 40 43' north, it being the latitude of New \ ork City.



J 44 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

position of the planets and place them in the blank map. There is no
Astrological Ephemeris calculated for New York or Washington ; therefore

we have to use the Ephemeris calculated for London, England, and as

there are five hours and eight minutes difference in time between Lon-
don and Washington, we have to allow for that difference. Therefore
the longitude of the planets that are calculated for twelve noon in

London, we reckon as though they were calculated for seven o'clock in

the morning for Washington, D. C.

-a=l

Map of the Heavens showing the signs of the Zodiac for the time
President McKinley was inaugurated, March 4th, 1897, 1 h. 18 m. P.M.

In calculating the time for putting the signs of the Zodiac in the
blank map, we always reckon from twelve o'clock at noon, and add the
hours or minutes that have elapsed since that time, to the hours and
minutes given in the column under Sidereal time in the Ephemeris.

But if the time is before twelve o'clock, we subtract the number of
hours and minutes that will elapse before noon, from the Sidereal Time
in the third column in the Ephemeris for that day.

If we wish to set a chart of the heavens for London, England ; after

calculating the longitude of the signs and writing them in the blank
chart, we then add the number of degrees and minutes that a planet will

travel from twelve o'clock noon to the hour and minute we are setting

the chart for, to the planet's longitude marked in the column in the
Ephemeris for that day. But if for Washington, D. C, we add the
number of degrees and minutes that a planet travels from seven o'clock

in the morning to the hour and minute we set the chart of the heavens for

to the degrees and minutes marked in the planet's longitude column in

the Ephemeris for that day.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 145

The time Mr. McKinley took the oath of office was one hour and
eighteen minutes in the afternoon, therefore reckoning from seven o'clock

in the mor ing, to that time is six hours and eighteen minutes. We
have to find out how fast each of the planets and Sun and Moon
are traveling that day, and then find how far they will travel in the
six hours and eighteen minutes and write the degree and minute, of the

planets in the signs in the blank chart on that day.
In the fourth column of Raphael's Ephemeris for March 5th, 1897,

the Sun is 15 degrees, 12 minutes and 29 seconds. And on the 4th of

March it is 14 degrees, 12 minutes and 25 seconds. Therefore if we
subtract one from the other we find that the Sun in a day had traveled
one degree, no minutes and four seconds. Then the Sun will travel

fifteen minutes in six hours, being one fourth of a day. If we add the
fifteen minutes to 14 degrees, 12 minutes and 25 seconds, it will amount
to 14 degrees, 27 minutes and 25 seconds. Add one minute more to

the Sun for the extra twenty minutes in time it makes 14 degrees and
28 minutes, dropping the seconds. In the sign Pisces, place the © 14:28
just a little above the line marked 9 in the blank map in the sign )£.

The student should look at the map of the heavens when he has
placed the Sun in it, and notice from the time of day whether the Sun is

in its right position. If it is not, then he has made some mistake in

placing the signs of the Zodiac in the blank map, and must correct that

mistake before he goes any further. For instance, in the chart he sets

for noon, the Sun must be in the midheaven, near the line marked 10,
if near sunrise, the Sun must be near the line marked 1. If near sun-
set, must be near the line marked 7, and midnight the Sun must be near
line marked 4. He will see the Sun is in its right position in the chart
on page 146, at 1:18 P. M.

In the column number 6 of Raphael's Ephemeris the student will find

on March 4th, that the Moon is 25 degrees and 39 minutes and 19 seconds
in the sign Pisces. Therefore, omitting the seconds, the Moon has 4
degrees and 21 minutes to go before it is out of the sign Pisces, and on
March 5th, the Moon is 7 degrees and 53 minutes in the sign

Aries. Therefore if we add 4 degrees and 21 minutes to 7 degrees and
53 minutes, we find the Moon travels at the rate of 12 degrees and
14 minutes in twenty-four hours. In six hours the Moon will travel

3 degrees and 4 minutes, or one fourth of 12 degrees and 14 minutes.
Add 3:04 to 25:39 makes in all 28:43, anc^ add n minutes in longitude
for the 26 minutes in time, makes altogether 28:54 in the sign Pisces.

Place the Moon 28:54 m Pi sces > just over the Sun, above the line

marked 9.

On the opposite page of the Ephemeris, on March 4th the planets
Neptune, Uranus and Saturn do not travel any distance on that day,
so enter them on the map, as they are marked in the signs in the Ephem-
eris. Neptune

( f ) is 17:32 in Gemini (n), so place f just below the
line marked 12, and in the sign n. Enter Uranus (13) just above the line

marked 5 in Scorpio (Til), 29:03, put an R,to show that Uranus (]$[) is

retrograde. Place Saturn ( *>
) just below the line marked 6 in the

sign £ , 0:45.



146 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

The planet Jupiter (71) is retrograding 8 minutes per day; take one
minute from 4:06 and place 2£ just below the line marked 3,
in Virgo (TT£), 4.05 and an R, to show that that planet is retrograde.

In the next column Mars *
( ) is 22:28, in n , and on the 5th day

£ is 22:52, showing that in 24 hours £ has travele'd 24 minutes in

longitude; therefore Mars would have traveled 6 minutes or one fourth

of 24 minutes in six hours ; add the six minutes to 22:28 and enter £
in the blank map, just below the planet Neptune, in the sign n, 22:34.

On March 4th, Venus (?) is 29:43 in Anes (T), on the 5th it is

0:34 in Taurus ( b )• Thus $ has traveled 51 minutes in 24 hours.

Add 13 minutes to 29:43 and enter $ left of the line marked 10 in ihe

sign T , 29:56.

In the next column, Mercury ( £ ) is 22:08 on the 4th, and on the

5th 23:38, showing that in 24 hours £ h as traveled 1 degree and 30
minutes, and in six hours it travels 2z minutes. Enter $ a little above
the line marked 8 in the blank map, in the sign Aquaries (<£v) 22:30.

On the right hand column on top of second page of Ephemeris for

March, the student will find "Moon's Node" and on the 3rd day he will

find 13:53 in £7. Enter the Moon's North Node ( Q ) in the blank map
on the line marked 8. The opposite sign, of the map being Si enter the

South Node (ft), 13:47.

Chart of the heavens for the time President McKinley took the oath

of office, March 4th, 1897, at ):i8 P. M., Washington,' D. C.

The above Chart is what is termed an Astrological Map of the

heavens all complete, (except the [©] part of fortune, which I shall

show the reader how to find when I explain to him how to calculate



—
ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 147

the next chart following). We sometimes look for what are termed
the aspects, both good and evil, and place them below the figure, in

the following manner :

Good Aspects. Evil Aspects.

S A $ G t

J) A W 2f D ^
} a ^ U a W
? A 2(

We also sometimes copy the Latitudes and Declinations of the Sun,

Moon and planets for that day, and place them in a similar manner,
below the figure.

I shall defer what is termed reading the foregoing chart until the stu-

dent is further advanced in his studies, and will only add that if a child

was born in or near Washington, D. C. , on March 4th, 1897, at

1.18 P. M. the foregoing chart would be that child's Horoscope or Na-
tivity, and we would read it as we read all other Nativities, according to

the rules of "Genethliacal Astrology." But as this chart was calcu-

lated for the time the President took the oath of office, we have to read
it according to the rules of "Mundane Astrology" which I shall treat

of in the latter part of this volume.

It is very important that the student should learn to set a figure or
chart of the heavens correctly, for any part of the day or night.

Therefore I cannot do better than give another example how to erect a

map of the heavens. I will erect the next chart for the time that the
Extra Congress met in Washington, D. C. , 1897, being the first Con-
gress under President McKinley.

The New York Evening Sun, of March 1 5th, 1 897, in its Washington
news, states:—"That precisely at 12 o'clock (noon) the clerk called

the house to order." Therefore we will calculate the chart for 1 2 o'clock

(noon) that day. The student must read again carefully the rules how
to set a map of the heavens on page 142.

In Raphael's Ephemeris on March 15, 1897, in column 3, marked
on the top of the column Sidereal Time, you will find 23:33 and as it

is neither before nor after 12 noon, we neither subtract nor add, but take

these figures and look in the Table of Houses, for New York. On the

first column on the left hand side and under Sidereal Time, find the

nearest number to the above which is 23 degrees, 34 minutes and 18

seconds, and on a line with that in the next column on the top, you
will find number 10, meaning 10th house, and underneath the sign X-
Enter the sign X and 23 on the end of line marked 10, in blank map.
On the top of next column you will find number 1 1 and °f underneath,
and on a line with 23.34 you will find 29: enter °f 29 on end of line

marked 1 1 in blank map. On the top of the next column find number
12 and down the column the sign n, and on a line with 23:34 the
figure 9 : place n and 9 on the end of line marked 12, in blank map.
In the next column find ascend., which means the ascendent or first



I48 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

house, and down in the column find the sign £3, and on a line with
23:34 find 13.37 : place g£ 13:37 on end of line marked 1, in blank map.

On top of next column find 2, and below in same column find ft,
and on a line with 23:34 find 3, place ft 3. on end of line marked 2,

in blank map. On top of the next column find figure 3, and immedi-
ately below the sign ft> and on a line with 23:34 find 25 : place ft 2 5,

on end of line marked 3, in blank map.
On page 143 the student will find what signs are opposite each other,

as T is opposite =£=, and TTQ. is opposite X, etc. Therefore place Trj2

on end of line marked 4, in blank map, and always place, the same
number that is with the opposite sign ; as X in this blank map is 23
degrees, place 23 along with TTJi ; and copy =£= and 29 degrees on end of

line marked 5, in blank map; and f 9 on end of line marked 6; and
Y3 1 3. 37 on end of line marked 7 ; and £? 3 on end of line marked 8,

also £? 25 on end of line marked 9.

After the student has gone around the chart in this manner, then he
must look and see that all the twelve signs of the Zodiac are on the chart.

Commence counting T , 8 , II , etc.; the student will notice in this chart
the sign b is left out; therefore insert the sign b just under the line of
outer circle between °f and n, and directly opposite place Tlj, just within
the line of the circle, between =^= and $ . Then all the signs and number
of degrees are put in their correct places in blank map.

We now commence to calculate the longitude of the Sun, Moon and
each of the planets, and insert them in their proper places or the signs

where they belong, and with their degrees and minutes marked along
side of them.

(If the chart of the heavens was calculated for 12 o'clock noon,
London, England, we should then copy the number of degrees and
minutes into the blank chart that are affixed to the Sun and Moon and
the planets in the Ephemeris for 12 o'clock noon on the 15th of March,
1897.)

But the reader will remember that in the former chart of the heavens
that we calculated, that there is a difference of 5 hours and 8 minutes in

time between London, England, and Washington, D. C; therefore

we have to add the number of degrees and minutes that a planet has
travelled from 6. 5 2 o'clock in the morning to 12 o'clock noon to the
number of degrees and minutes that the planet is marked in the
Ephemeris.

The student will find that the Sun on the 15th of March is 25 de-
grees and l l minutes, on the 1 6th, is 26 degrees and very nearly 1 1 min-
utes, therefore the Sun is going one degree a day ; in that case it goes
12 minutes in longitude in 5 hours ; we in this case mark the Sun in the

sign X 25:23 and to the left of the line marked 10 in the blank chart.

The moon in Raphael's Ephemeris is 10 degrees and 23 minutes on the

15th, and on the 16th, 24 degrees and 5 minutes, therefore it is going 13
degrees and 42 minutes in 24 hours, or 2 degrees and 50 minutes in

5

hours, we add the 2 degrees and 50 minutes to the 10 degrees and 23
minutes, which makes 13 degrees and 13 minutes, we enter the Moon



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. I49

and that number a little below the line marked 2 in the blank chart
in the sign £\. f , ^ and *> travel very little in the 24 hours
between the 15th and 16th; therefore we enter these planets and the
degrees and minutes as we find them in the Ephemeris. f 17 degrees
and 37 minutes in n , a little below the line marked 12 in the blank
chart, 1$. in the sign Tf| 29 degrees and o minutes; between the 2 lines

numbers 5 and 6 R ; also enter *> 0.45 in ^ a little below the line

marked 6 R; % is Retrograding 7 minutes in the 24 hourS, therefore

we subtract 2 from 2:46, making it 2 degrees and 44 minutes,
and enter it to the left of the line marked 4 in the blank chart, vn the
sign TTJ2. R. Mars travels at the rate of 26 minutes in the 24 hours,
therefore we add 5 minutes to the 27:5, marked in the Ephemeris, and
enter it 27 degrees and 10 minutes in the sign n, a little below f.
Venus is going at the rate of 40 minutes in the 24 hours, therefore we
add 8 minutes to the 8 degrees and 12 minutes marked in the Ephemeris,
and enter it between the line 11 and 1 2 in the blank chart, in the sign

8, 8 degrees, 20 minutes. Mercury is travelling at the rate of nearly
two degrees a day ; therefore it will go 24 minutes in the 5 hours, we
add the 24 minutes to the 9.33 which makes 9.57, and enter it to the
right of the line marked 10 in the blank chart in the sign X- The
Moon's Node is 13 degrees and 15 minutes in the sign £?; therefore

we enter that number a little below the line marked 9 in the blank chart
in the sign j£C?, and we enter the £3 and 13:15 a little above the line marked
3 in the blank chart. The figure is now complete, except the " Part of

Fortune " which I shall explain to the student how to calculate it in

the next chart of the heavens that we erect. We shall defer reading
this chart until we come to treat on the subject of Mundane Astrology
in the latter part of this volume. (See page 150.)

It will be advisable for the student, in order to perfect himself in

erecting the charts of the heavens, to calculate a chart for the same time
of day, for each day in succession. Possibly it may be the bert for the

learner if he lives in, or near New York City, to calculate it for 7 o'clock

in the morning ; in that case he will look in the Ephemeris for the Side-
real Time for that day at 1 2 o'clock noon, which he wishes to calculate

the chart of the heavens; and from that sum marked there he will sub-
tract 5 hours, and with the remainder, he will then look in the Table
of Houses for New York City, for the nearest to that sum in the first

column, or Sidereal Time, or the nearest number corresponding to the
Sidereal Time in the Ephemeris for that day; after he has deducted
the 5 hours before noon. Then copy the signs and figures on a line

with the Sidereal Time, belonging to the loth, 11th and 12th, the

Ascendant or First House, and the 2nd and 3rd house, in a blank chart.

After the student has copied all the Northern signs, he must look for the

Southern signs, or for the signs that are opposite each other; also write

the degrees and minutes that are along side the Northern signs, along

side of the Southern signs. Afterwards he will copy out of the

Ephemeris the Sun, Moon, and the planets just as he finds them
marked for that day, and their degrees and minutes along side of each.



*5o ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Then he will have a chart of the heavens for 7 A. M. for that day, and
will by looking at it know what aspects the Moon is going to make
during the day.

Below the student will find chart of the heavens for the time that
Congress met in Washington, D. C, March 15, 1897, at 1 2 noon.

%JJ

%£3
I shall explain how to read the above chart in the latter part of this volume.

I calculate the positions of the signs and of the planets for 12 o'clock

noon, for every day of the year, in order to find out what aspects the
Moon forms with the other planets and the Sun ; I also notice what
aspects the Sun and Moon form with the positions of the planets, in

my horoscope, for that day. The student will find it good practice, if

he follows the same method, and he will find by doing so, that he is

learning something every day, and when he has learned it, he would
rather part with any other knowledge that he may possess, than that

knowledge.
After the student has learned to set the chart of the heavens for any

day at 7 A. M., it would be advisable for him next to learn how to

calculate a map of the heavens for 1 P. M. By looking in the Ephemeris
for the Sidereal Time, and then adding one hour to that sum, and to

look in the Table of Houses for the " Sidereal Time " and copy the 6
Northern signs on the houses, 10th, 11th, 12th, 1st, 2nd and 3rd, and
the degrees and minutes along side ; also after placing the Southern
signs in the blank chart opposite the Northern signs, then in order to

get the longitude of the planets, he must see how far they travel in

the 24 hours, and take one quarter of that sum and add to the longitude
of the planets marked in the Ephemeris, and enter them into the proper
signs in the blank chart, but if the planet is Retrogade, then he must see

how much it is retrograding in the 24 hours, and subtract one quarter



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. I5I

of that sum from the number of degrees and minutes, marked in the

Ephemeris, and enter the remainder with the planets in the blank chart

in its proper sign and house.

THE HOROSCOPE OF MRS. MAUD S's DAUGHTER.
The next chart of the heavens that we propose to erect is that of the

daughter of Mrs. Maud S., born July 2, 1884, at 8:35 A - M -> New
York City.

In order for the student to follow me in the calculation of this horo-
scope, he will have to procure an Ephemeris for 1884, and if he looks

in the 3d, column under the words " Sidereal Time," on the 2d of July,
for that year, he will find 6 hours and nearly 44 minutes, and as this time
of birth occurred before noon, he will deduct the number of hours and
minutes that will elapse from 8:35 A. M. to 12 noon, which is 3 hours
and 25 minutes, he will subtract that sum from 6 hours and 44 minutes,
which will leave 3 hours and 19 minutes, he will then look for the near-
est to that number of hours and minutes in the "Table of Houses" for

New York, and he will there find 3 hours, 18 minutes, and on a line with
these figures he will find the longitude of the 10th, nth, 12th, 1st, 2d
and 3d houses, which he will enter in a blank chart ; he will then place
in the same chart the opposite signs and their degrees and minutes.
Then the student will look in the Ephemeris for July 2, 1884, and there
find the longitude of the Sun, Moon and planets for 12 noon calculated
for London, which is equivlent to 7 A. M. in New York. He will then
calculate how much each planet travels from 7 A. M. to 8:35 A. M.,
and place the planets and degrees and minutes in their proper signs and
houses in the blank figure.

HOW TO CALCULATE THE PART OF FORTUNE.
292 In this chart of the heavens I have also calculated the

" Part of Fortune," and this is done by adding the longitude
of the Ascendant to the longitude of the Moon, and from
that sum subtract the longitude of the Sun; the remainder is

the longitude of the " Part of Fortune" in signs, degrees and
minutes. We always commence to count from Aries, and
count to the sign next to that in which the Sun and Moon is

located ; we count the same way for the Ascendant. In this
case we find that in counting from Aries the

Ascendant is 4 signs, 28 degrees, 4 minutes,
the Moon is 7 " 6 " 33 " add.

»> >» >>
II 34 37

the Sun » J >> " -__„'U
is 3 11 00 sub

89 9

23 37
293 In this case the Sun is 8 signs, 23 degrees and 37 min-

utes, and if we count from Aries we will find that the 8th sign
is Scorpio; therefore the " Part of Fortune" is 8 whole signs,



152 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

and 23 degrees and 37 minutes into the 9th sign, which is

Sagittarius ; and enter accordingly in ^ just below the line
marked 5 in the blank map.

tfu

*K&1

CHART OF THE HEAVENS FOR GIRL BORN JULY 2d,

1884, at 8:35 A. M., NEW YORK CITY.

Chart of the heavens for the above named time of birth all complete,
ready for the Astrologer to commence what we call reading.

No doubt the chart appears to the student like a wagon wheel, with
12 spokes, and a large hub in the centre, with certain hieroglyphics on the
outside rim, and on a number of spokes ; these hyeroglyphics may appear
to the student like insects crawling on the spokes and on the rim, and he
will probably be equally puzzled as to what they mean, as the editor of
the "New York Times"; but possibly he may be like Mrs. Maud S. and
have "perfect good faith, and really believe that the data submitted is

sufficient basis for calculations of practical value." I shall not "concoct
a horoscope for the day and year here given," neither shall I do "any
dreary fooling," I leave that for the editor of the uJVew York Times"
but I expect to make the horoscope interesting. If the student ever
becomes a good Astrologer, he will be able to see the picture of the young
lady in this " hieroglyphic diagram " as she appeared as a baby, at 2 or 3.

at 8 or 10, also at 18 or 20 years old, or at any other period of

her life, not only as she will look when a young lady of 25 or 30, or
whether fat, slender, tall, or short, dark or light, but also he could give color
of hair and eyes, and her varied physique and general appearance.
Also as she will appear when a woman of 50 or 60 or more years old.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. I53

I shall explain to the student how to describe her mental qualities, and
tell what business she might succeed in, if any, what kind of men she

should avoid, in order to guard against disgrace or special unhappiness,
and a particular description of the gentleman she will marry, and the

gentleman she will meet with who is likely to cause her much unhappiness,
and whom she will not marry, and which party she ought to try to avoid

;

also I shall explain to the student what diseases she will suffer from, and
in what parts of her life they will occur, and what parts of the body will

be most afflicted, and a number of other things which it is advisable

for every person to know to guard against misfortunes.

The student must not expect to learn every thing at once (Rome
was not built in a day); he must be satisfied at first by being able to tell

whether the horoscope is a fortunate or an unfortunate one, and afterwards

he must learn why it is unfortunate, and what particular aspects and
positions of the planets make it unfortunate, and why it is fortunate and
what particular aspects or positions of the planets make it fortunate.

For instance, in the horoscope of Chas. Dryden, John Dryden told his

wife "that the child was born in an evil hour, that Jupiter, Venus and
the Sun were all under the Earth, and the Ascendant afflicted with an
hateful square of Mars and Saturn." These remarks indicated that the

child had a very unfortunate horoscope, and that all the evil directions

during its life, or what are sometimes termed aspects, would tell with a

vengeance ; and that he would not feel much good from what are called

the good aspects or directions.

The above horoscope is what is termed a rather fortunate one, still

it would have been much better if the Sun did not make an aspect of
Mars for her first marriage, especially as Mars is an evil planet and in

evil aspect to Saturn in the midheaven.

LORDS OR RULERS OF THE SIGNS OF THE
ZODIAC.

294 Before the student can begin to learn to read a nativity
or horoscope properly, in addition to learning- the houses and
the signs of the Zodiac and their signification, also the
planets, and their various significations, he will have to learn
what are termed the lords and ladies of the houses, or rather
lords or rulers of the signs of the Zodiac. The seven planets
which the ancients were acquainted with, were Saturn,
Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury and the Moon. The
old Astrologer allotted two of the signs of the Zodiac to each
one of these planets, as they found by experience that those
old Astrologers alotted two of the signs of the Zodiac to each
them, than they had in any other of the signs of the Zodiac;
but they only allotted one sign each to the Sun and Moon;
and no matter what sign each of the five planets and the Sun
and Moon may happen to be in, they are still said to be lords
and ladies of the signs that have been allotted to them, as
those old astrologers found by long experience and practice,



J 54 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

that what are sometimes called the seven planets have great
influence or sympathy with the particular signs that they are
lords or ladies of, and which they retain, whether they are in
these signs or not. For instance, Mars is lord of Aries and
Scorpio ; Venus is lady of Taurus and Libra ; Mercury is lord
of Gemini and Virgo ; Moon is lady of Cancer ; Sun is lord
of Leo;* Jupiter of Sagittary and Pisces; and Saturn of
Capricorn and Aquarius.

295 I have generally been the most successful in getting
students to commit to memory what are termed the lords or
ladies of the houses or signs of the Zodiac, by his learning
them in the order in which I have here given. Some
students learn them easiest one way, and some another.
I will give below four different methods of committing them
to memory, and the student may choose whichever method he
finds the easiest to learn, but whichever method he learns
them by, he must bear in mind he must commit them to
memory before he can read a nativity or horary question
successfully.

Lords of Lords of
Signs Signs. Signs. Planets. Signs. Signs. Signs. Planets.

T $ T and TT[ allotted to 3 O J © $
8 9 8 " ** < 1

? a O a
n i

tf n " <

tih V TIE. and n » Y3 and AW
AW ?)

© J t " X < < % =£= " 8 9 ^ f t X i
a O <

Y3 " <

X? 5 m " t "
6 til T 6

m i i

B © J # " x 2f =£= " 8 ?
-A- 9 a i I

V3 " ^ M TTJZ " n «
m t

$ u
\3 ^
AW
AW *?

X n
* Claudius Ptolemy in his Tetrabiblos. as translated by Ashmond, tells us that the reason

the old astrologers allotted the sign Leo to the Sun, was that the Sun had the most power or in-

fluence over vegetation, etc., when he was in the sign Leo, that is from the 22d of July to the 226
of August ; and as the Sun has the most power in the sign Cancer (from the 22d of June to the
22d of July), in causing rain and wet weather, they allotted the sign Cancer to the Moon, it being
a moist or watery planet. Then as Saturn was a cold and dry planet, it being the furthest away
from the Sun, they allotted it the two signs furthest away from Cancer and Leo, or the signs in
opposition to those two, that is Capricorn and Aquarius, as the two houses or signs of Saturn ; then
as Jupiter was the next nearest to Saturn, coming towards the Sun and Moon, and being a warm
and moist planet, they allotted it the next two signs to Capricorn and Aquarius, that is Pieces
Sagittary ; then they allotted the next two signs coming towards Cancer and Leo, to Mars, that is

Scorpio and Aries ; then they allotted the next two signs, that is Taurus and Libra to Venus ; then
the next two signs, that is Gemini and Virgo they allotted to the planet Mercury; then Cancer
was allotted to the Moon and Leo to the Sun.

t Zadkiel, of London, tells us in one of his books on Astrology, that there is a stone in the
British Museum, which was brought from Egypt with the above arrangement of the Planets and
Signs of the Zodiac engraved on it, and the Astronomers and savants of Europe have been puzz-
ling their brains how it was that the ancient Egyptians so arranged the signs and the planets, and
whether in some prehistoric age the signs of the Zodiac followed in the order above shown. If those
savants had looked into any Astro'ogical text book, they would have had the whole tiling ex-
plained in a nut shell ; but it would have lowered their dignity to have consulted an Astrological
book. There is no doubt but that some ancient Astrologer so arranged them and had them engraved,
so that his students could more easily learn them ; or he might have done it, so as to keep them
constantly in his own mind



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 155

296 The student cannot have the lords of the various signs too thor-

oughly committed to memory, If he does not know them well, he will

commit a number of mistakes in his reading of horoscopes. He can
choose whichever of the four tables given that he thinks he can

commit easiest to memory.

297 In order to make the student understand what is meant by the lords

and ladies of the different signs or houses, and at the same time under-

stand the above tables, I will say that after the chart of the heavens is

cast, the student will first see what sign is on the Ascendant or first

house, and if T is on the ascendant then £ is said to be lord of the

ascendant or first house. If & is on the ascendant, then $ is lady of

the first house. If n is on the ascendant then £ is lord of the first

house. If® is on the ascendant, then the Moon is lady of the Ascend-
ant or first house, and so on through the whole signs of the Zodiac ; in

the same manner if T is on the midheaven or loth house, then & is

said to be lord of the loth house, or if 8 is on the midheaven, then $
is lady of the loth house. The same if °f is on the 7th house, then £
is lord of the 7th house, and if 8 is on the 7th house, then $ is ladv

of the 7th ; and so on through the 12 signs of the Zodiac, and through

the different houses of the heavens.

RULES FOR READING HOROSCOPES.
When we commence to read a horoscope we generally divide it into

what are termed parts or divisions :

1st. As to whether the native may live or not, and the probable
length of life.

2d. The description of the party, whether light or dark, tall

or short, etc.

3d. The diseases that he will be afflicted with, or is most liable to.

4th. Whether the person will be wealthy or poor, or have various
changes in life, sometimes up or down.

5th. The mental qualities, or what line of studies to pursue.

6th. The disposition or temper, whether high tempered or ol an
easy disposition.

7th. What line of business the native may succeed in, and his nat-

ural inclinations

8th. We examine in regard to friends or enemies, whether much
benefitted by the former, or much afflicted by the latter, and which will

be the most injurious or beneficial, males or females.
9th. We examine in regard to moral character, whether religious oi

skeptical, vicious, or inclined to be honorable.

10th. We look in regard to relations and near neighbors, and long
and short iournevs.



I56 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

11th. In regard to marriage, whether happy or unhappy, and a

description of the person the native will marry ; also a description
of the persons they will keep company with previous to marriage.

12th. The probable time of life the party will marry.

13th. Children; whether few or many, beneficial or injurious.

14th. Whether the native will enjoy fair health or be sick most of
the time, or whether thev will ever be troubled with sickness.

15th. The various contingencies and events of life.

HAVE A REGULAR SYSTEM OF READING A
HOROSCOPE.

It is always advisable for the student to acquire a certain method or
system of reading a horoscope, as in that case he is less liable to

become confused or leave out some important part of the nativity, but
there are times when it will be advisable to deviate from one particular

method ; for instance, on one occasion I was consulted by a lady, mother
of a leading New York actress ; after giving her age and where she
was born, I calculated a chart of the heavens for the time of birth.

The first words I said to her were, " You did not live with your
husband three months." She answered by saying, " Well, I managed
to murder it out with him a whole year." The reader will easily see

that I made a mistake to begin with, but the lady discovered there was
something in Astrology. When the student sees a striking feature in

a horoscope, it is often advisable to touch upon that feature at once, as

in that case he will often get the confidence of his client at the outset,

but as I previously remarked, it is generally advisable to acquire a

certain method and stick to it as near as possible ; even when he has

everything down to an almost perfect system, he will find plenty

to confuse him, on account of horoscopes differing so much from
one another. I shall never forget, while studying Astrology, a

remark made by my brother, which was, " Throw as much overboard as

you possibly can, and judge by the remainder, and even then you will

have plenty to confuse you." The student often acquires the bad habit

of actually trying to confuse himself; he gets everything mixed by
trying to judge from too many combinations, when on the contrary he
should try to acquire the habit of separating the science into parts, and
in that way simplify it as much as possible, and in course of time will

begin to make good headway, and gradually master the science.

Astrology, like music, may be divided into a science and an art.

For instance, a person may understand the science of music almost to

perfection, and yet may not be able to play a single instrument, and only
an indifferent singer ; in like manner a person may be well versed in the

science of Astrology, and not be able to read a single horoscope cor-

rectly. The former is called the science, and the latter the art of
Astrology, but no person can be an artist in either music or Astrology
unless they have some knowledge of the science.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 157

The first thing I generally look at in a horoscope is to see whether
the person is likely to live ; sometimes I look at the persortt themselves,

and then at the horoscope, and if the horoscope does not describe a

person like the client, I know then that there has been a mistake made
in the time or place of birth, and I go no further uutil that mistake
is rectified.

1st.— Giver of Life.

After the chart of the heavens is calculated, I generally see how
strong the giver of life is, because that decides the length of life, other
influences or aspects being equal. To find out which is the giver of
life, we first see where the Sun or Moon is, whether either of them is

in what are termed " Hylegiacal Places" in the horoscope. These places

of the heavens are divided into three parts : the first is from 5 degrees above
the cusp of the ascendant to 25 degrees below ; the next is 5 degrees
below the cusp of the 7th house to* 25 degrees above; the next is 5
degrees below the cusp of the 9th house to 25 degrees below the cusp
of the l ith house.

If the Sun is in any of these places, it is said to be the giver of life,

and if unafBicted, then the person will live to an old age, unless some
remarkably evil positions of the planets indicate the contrary ; even then
the native will not die in infancy, and may live beyond middle age. If

the Sun is not in any of the positions above named, then the Moon is

giver of life, if she is in any of these places referred to above. But
the Moon is not as strong for long life, when the giver of life, as the

Sun, and the person who has the Moon "Hyleg" seldom enjoys the best

of health. When neither the Sun nor the Moon is the giver of life, then
the ascendant is said to be " Hyleg," which is that part of the heavens
from 5 degrees above the cusp of the ascendant to 25 degress below,
and if the ascendant is afflicted by the presence of an evil planet (either

Saturn or Mars), it is then very doubtful of the native living to middle
age ; but if Jupiter and Venus be in the ascendant or within 25 degrees
below the cusp, then the chances of life are much more in favor of the

native.

In the horoscope of the young lady born July 2, 1884, at 8.35 A.M.,
the student will find that the Sun is the giver of life, as there are 27
degrees of Gemini on the cusp of the 11th house, and the Sun is 11

degrees in Cancer ; therefore the Sun is within 14 degrees of the cusp of
the I Ith house, consequently it is the giver of life in this horoscope,
and it is unafflicted—that is, no evil planet afflicts the Sun, and the Moon
is applying to a trine of the Sun, and the Sun is making a sextile of Mars
rising; therefore, it is said to be well fortified, and the native is almost

certain to live to old age, or between 60 or 70 years old.

The Moon is always co-significator in all horoscopes, unless it be the

planet that the native is born under, and in those cases Cancer is on
the ascendant, and the Moon is then the ruling planet, it being lady
of that sign.

If the Moon had not been afflicted in the sign Scorpio in this horo-
scope, and so near a square of Jupiter, in the 12th house (an evil house),



I58 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

and Jupiter being lord of the 8th house (the house of death), she might
in that case live to be over 70.

2d.—Personal Description.

In order to describe the native by the horoscope, we first notice the
sign in the ascendant, also see if there are any planets in the ascendant,
and if so, we notice the signs that thev are in, and also see if they have
any aspects to any other planets; then we go to the lord of the ascendant
and see what sign it is in, and if it has any aspects to any other planets;
then we go to the Moon and see what sign it is in, and what aspect it

has to any other planets, and judge by the combination of the whole.
In the horoscope of Mrs. Maud S. 's daughter, the sign Leo is on the

ascendant, therefore the student must read what kind of person the sign

Leo describes (see 17).* There is no planet in the ascendant, therefore

we go to the Sun in the sign Cancer, and read the Sun in Cancer, 107;
then we notice the Sun is in sextile to Mars, we read the kind of person
the Sun in sextile to Mars describes, 234; then we turn to the Moon
and read the kind of person the Moon in Scorpio describes, 147.
In this horoscope the Moon is in close square to Jupiter in Leo, and being
so near the square, we read 84, what kind of a person Jupiter in Leo will

describe, also the description of the Moon in square to Jupiter, 277, and
by the combination of the whole we describe the native. The student
must not notice any other planets in the horoscope in describing the

native, unless they are in opposition, or in square, trine, or sextile

aspect to the ascendant, as for instance, a planet in the 7th house in

opposition to the degree and minute rising, or in close square from the

10th or 4th, or in trine to the ascendant from the 9th or 5th, or in sextile

from the 3d or 1 ith; and as I said before, you must notice very particu-

larly any planet or planets that may be in the ascendant and what
signs they are in, In the nativity of Mrs. Maud S.'s daughter, we find

that there are over 28 degrees of the sign Leo on the ascendant there-
;

fore nearly all that sign has risen, and in this horoscope there is a great

part of the sign Virgo in the ascendant. In this case we have to read

18, giving the description of the sign Virgo, and then go to the lord
of Virgo, which is Mercury, and notice what sign it is in, which is

Gemini, and what aspect it has to any other planet (it is in square to

Uranus) ; we first read the description of Mercury in Gemini, and then
read the description of Mercury in square to Uranus, and by mixing the
whole, we can get at a very close description of the native ; but this

part of Astrology requires considerable skill and practice to become
proficient in.

In order to simplify the method of describing a person by the horo-
scope, or by the position of the planets at the time of birtl , I will, in

this case, reprint the descriptions of the signs Leo and Virgo on the

ascendant ; also, the lord of the ascendant, which is the Sun in Cancer in

sextile aspect to Mars ; also a person described by the Moon in Scorpio,

* Refers to paragraph 17 on page Q7, which describas a person born with Leo in the ascend-
ant or 1st house. This explanation will answer for all other numbers which follow. All those
paragraphs which are numbered are printed in large type.



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 1^0

and the description of Jupiter in Leo; also of a person described by the

Moon in square to Jupiter; also a person described by Mercury in

Gemini, and by Mercury in square to Uranus.
For practice, the student must see how near he could come to writing

off a personal description of the native, by the combination of the whole,
as indicated by the above horoscope. It will be good practice for him
to try and do it over a number of times, and then read the description

that I give of Mrs. Maud S. 's daughter, on page 38. There is one
thing that the student should distinctly keep in mind, that is, he should
condense the personal description as much as possible, so that any person
acquainted with the young lady who reads it, would say, "that is her
exact description," just the same as if looking at a good photograph or

oil-painting of the lady.

Here follows the quality and description of the signs Leo and Virgo,
also of the Sun, Jupiter, Mercury and the Moon.

Leo gives a great round head, large, prominent, or staring eyes, quick
sighted, a full and large body, and of more than middle stature ; broad
shoulders, narrow sides, yellow or dark flaxen hair, curling or turning up;
a fierce countenance, but ruddy, high, sanguine complexion; strong,

valiant and active; step firm and mind courteous.

Virgo gives a slender body, rather tall but well composed, a ruddy
brown complexion, black hair, well favored or lovely, but not a beautiful

creature, small, shrill voice, judicious and exceedingly well-spoken,
studious and given to history, whether man or woman.

Sun in Cancer gives a mean, ill-formed body, deformed in the face,

with a very unhealthy aspect, the hair brown. A harmless, cheerful
person, but indolent and not fond of employment.

Sun Sextile to Mars confers great bravery and a high spirit ; he rises

to grandeur by means of his courage and invincible military talents.

Moon in Scorpio denotes a thick, short, and ill-shaped person, a

fleshy, obscure complexion, dark hair, often black.

Moon in Square to Jupiter he is injured by faithless friends and
deceitful relatives, and his property is impoverished by hypocritical
fanatics.

[upiter in Leo represents a strong and well-proportioned, tall body
the hair is a light or yellowish brown and curling ; complexion, ruddy

;

eye, full and fiery person, rather handsome.
;

Mercury in Gemini shows a tall, upright, straight body, well formed,
brown hair, good complexion, and a very intelligent look.

Mercury in Square to Uranus, he lacks intuitive observation and
instinctive judgment ; is skeptical, etc.

After the student has read all the above, of a person being described
by the signs and planets, no doubt, to his mind, it will appear all con-
fusion, and it would puzzle a Philadelphia lawyer to straighten the

matter out, but after a while he will find that it will all come plain and



l6o ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

easy to him ; experience will teach him what to rely on in almost all

cases, and what is only of secondary importance. It is very difficult to
describe this young lady by her horoscope, on account of what is called
conflicting testimony ; but in some nativities which we shall read further
on, the student will find it then very plain and easy describing the natives
by their horoscope. There are no special rules that never vary and
that can be relied upon in all cases, but generally he must give:

1st.— Prominence to the signs on or in the ascendant.

2d.—To planets in the ascendant.

3d.—To the lord of the ascendant and its aspects.

4th.—To the Moon and its aspects.

Whenever there is a planet in the Ascendant, especially if it is a

superior planet, it generally has the most influence in describing the

native. In the nativity of the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, Jupiter is in

Leo in his ascendant, and if the student reads Jupiter in Leo, on page
109, he will find that it comes very close to Mr. Beecher's description.

General Grant had Saturn, Sun and Jupiter in the sign Taurus in the
Ascendant, and if the Scudent reads all those planets in the sign Taurus,
he will find that they come very close to giving an accurate description
of him.* In the horoscope of Mrs. Maud S's daughter, if there had
only been the sign Leo in the ascendant and the Sun in Cancer, it would
have been much easier to describe her, and she would also have been
much lighter complexioned (a regular blond), and much fuller built,

even as a child or young lady, especially as the Moon is in the sign

Scorpio, a stout sign; but there being a part of Virgo in the ascendant,
and it being a tall, dark sign, and Mercury in another tall, dark sign

(Gemini), those influences make her quite slender when young, and above
the medium height, and also will gradually cause her hair to become a

light brown as she gets older. But the Moon being in a stout sign, and
the Sun being in Cancer, a stout sign, and a stout sign on the cusp of
the ascendant makes her full built; after middle age, or at 40 or 45, she

may reach the weight of near 200 pounds, chiefly caused by the Moon
being in the sign Scorpio, and in square to Jupiter in Leo.

After a little practice, this part of Astrology will become very plain

and easy, besides being very convincing of the truth of the science. It

will be advisable for the student at first, whenever he attempts to read
a horoscope, in describing the native, to copy out of this volume, on a

sheet of paper, the kind of person described by the sign in the ascendant,

and of any planet in the ascendant ; the description of the lord or lady
of the ascendant in whatever sign it may happen to be in, the aspects of

the lord of the ascendant ; and then the person described by the Moon,
in whatever sign it may be in, and its aspects; by so doing the student
will be surprised how easy it becomes.

To give an illustration, a homcepathic physician may have to read
over a number of large pages in his Homeopathic Materia Medica, in

order to arrive at the proper remedy, to meet all the symptoms that his

* These two horoscopes will be published further on in this volume.



1

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 1 6

patient may at the time be afflicted with. After a while, by experience,

he appears to arrive at the proper remedy as if it were by instinct. So
the student in Astrology, after he has read a number of horoscopes knows
what aspects and what planets and signs to rely on, and he will arrive

at a right conclusion, as if it were by intuition; but Astrology, like music
and a number of other sciences and professions, is largely dependent on
experience and practice. I might say practice is everything.*

I shall condense the remainder of the horoscope for Mrs. Maud S. 's

daughter, and only give an Outline as a guidance, and let the student

enlarge on it from his own study and investigation.

3d.—Sickness and Diseases and Complai7its.

The diseases this young lady is most liable to suffer from, are indicated

by the Moon in Scorpio, which governs the lower part of the body and
back, such as the kidneys, bladder, uterus and lower part of the intestines

;

the Moon being in square to Jupiter in the 12th house (the house of
sorrow and trouble), in the sign Leo, which governs the heart and back,

and Jupiter also being lord of the 8th house (the house of death),

Saturn in Gemini, which governs the chest and arms, being the lord of
the 6th house (the house of sickness), and in square to Mars, lord of the

* Unless the student takes great pleasure in the science of Astrology, regardless of any worldly
benefit that it might be to him, it is impossible for him to become a learned or scientific Astrologer.
It is like all other sciences or professions in that respect. The musician, artist, or sculptor who
does not take pleasure in his particular line of art, will never arrive at the head of his profession.

There are some people in this world who can never see any good in anything unless it brings
them wealth. Money is their God, and if they can only see and reach the glittering gold at the
filial goal, they are ready to endure all kinds of hardships, of either heat or cold, and put up with
all kinds of privations to attain their object. We have an illustration or object lesson in proof of
this, in the thousands of persons who have heard of the discovery of gold near the Klondyke River
in Alaska, and who are going in crowds to that god-forsaken country, and are ready to relinquish
everthing—their wives, families and friends, and endure the inclemency of an arctic climate—to put
up with all kinds of inconveniences, both in regard to food, lodging and clothing, and even run
the risk of destroying their health and their lives, by such exposure.

To those persons who make wealth their god, I have to say that there is money to be made by
the practice of Astrology, without having to endure all the above enumerated hardships, and with-
out having to leave family or home ; on the contrary, it will be a continued source of pleasure and
happiness. But money cannot be acquired by Astrology, without working for it. In course of
time the student will become so proficient in the science as to have clients come to consult him,
and pay him fees for his services, and which often amounts to quite a sum in a week ; besides, he
may get orders to write horoscopes, for from $2 to #5, $10 or $20 each ; there are also a number of
people who wish to have each day written off", called "Fortunate or Unfortunate day," and
remarks for each month, for which they pay $5. I have written those days off for some parties for
nearly Jo years. I have also written off predictions of the stock, mines, and produce market, for

which clients pay $5 per week, and those parties often come to consult me besides, for which they
seldom pay less than #5 per visit. He may also, in time, get orders to wiite horoscopes for daily
newspapers, which sometimes, in my case, has amounted to $200 per week ; and at times it was
impossible to supply the demand, the editors of the papers writing and telegraphing almost daily,

"Can you send us more horoscopes? We want to get out a larger Sunday edition, and insert 4
pages of horoscopes,'' when they were publishing two or more columns, three times per week
besides the Sunday editions, and they paid me $5 per column, and seven columns to a page.

The people are becoming hungry for this kind of literature, calkd the Occult ; they devour it,

whenever it comes in their reach. I need only mention such works as H. Rider Haggard's
"She," F. Marion Crawford's "Mr. Isaacs." and a number of other books which have large
circulations, but more especially works on Theosophy, which are all running into Astrologv, and
which works are now extensively read : in short Theosophv, Astrology, etc., are in the air. People
breathe it, especially in the Western States It is astonishing how many book stores have sprung
up in the last few years, which deal altogether in what are termed Occult Publications, and new
works are published almost weekly. The demand for such publications is becoming almost
universal, and within a few years there will scarcely be a respectable newspaper in the United
States or Canada, which will not have an Astrological or Horoscope column. And experts and
reliable Astrologers who are first in the market, will receive the most benefit.

Further on in this volume I shall refer to the Astrological influence which is operating in the
heavens at the present time, and which is causing this craving in the human mind for Astrology t

Theosophy, and kindred science ; also for works of fiction which treat on Occult subjects.



l6: ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

4th and also of the 9th. The native will at times be seriously afflicted

by a tightness of the chest, and palpitation of the heart, and will also

suffer from some weakness of the stomach and intestines, especially the

lower part. Mars being lord of the 9th, which indicates science, and
lord of the 4th (the end of all things), and Saturn lord of the 7th
house, which indicates the physician, and Saturn and Mars being in

square aspect to each other, shows that there is great danger of the native

having her life shortened by her physician. She must never employ a

tall, slender, dark complexioned doctor, especially if he has a thin face,

high forehead, small dark eyes, and black hair (indicated by ^ in E,
and $ in TTQ.), unless she wants to die young. But the Sun "the giver

of life," unafflicted and strong by being in good aspect to Mars and the
Moon, indicates that possibly by some good luck or by means of friends,

she may avoid those misfortunes referred to above, especially as the Sun
is in the 1 ith house (the house of friends), and in good aspect to Mars,
lord of the 4th house (the house of the native's residence). It is

possible she may be so guarded by her friends, that she may live to old
age, but, at the same time, there will often be danger, especially when
she has evil aspects in operation in her nativity.

\th.—Riches and Poverty.

This young lady will have many changes in life on account of Mars
being on the cusp of the 2d house, in square to Saturn in the midheaven,
and Mercury lord of the second in square to Uranus in the second. I

will state the various periods when those unfortunate events will occur,
when I come to treat on the various contingencies and events of life

;

will only state here that her first husband will generally be the cause of
of her low circumstances, on account of his own misfortunes and
extravagance.

—
5 th . Mental Abilities.

The mental qualities are chiefly governed by Mercury, and the pro-
pensities and passions are chiefly governed by the Moon, Mercury being
in the sign Gemini, its own sign, indicates that she will be of very good
intellect and will learn rapidly, and make a verv good scholar, although
she will be eccentric, and it will be very difficult for her to apply her
mind long at a time to any one subject, yet she will be a good speaker
and writer, and would succeed as an authoress, especially writing books
similiar to those of F. Marion Crawford and H. Rider Haggard. This
is indicated by the square of Mercury and Uranus, which will make her
very fond of such subjects. She will maintain a good moral reputation,
this is indicated by the Moon making a trine aspect to the Sun, and the

Sun being her ruling planet ; even the Moon in square to Jupiter would
give her good moral tendencies, but at times make her gloomy ard
despondent on account of Jupiter being in the 1 2th house (the house of
sorrow), and also lord of the 8th house, (or house of death.)

6th.—Disposition and Temper.

She will generally have a good natured disposition, but at times of a

domineering tendency, as those born under the Sun always want to



—

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 1 63

control others ; will but seldom get into bad tempers, on account of the
Sun being unafflicted in the llth house (the house of hopes); she will

generally be of a cheerful and hopeful tendency, out at odd times slightly

gloomy and despondent.

yth.—Business and Honor.

It is doubtful about her succeeding in business, except writing or

teaching, as Saturn being in the 10th house (the house of business), and
in square to Mars on the cusp of the second ; she would lose money by
any business she would undertake. She will be particularly unfortunate
in keeping a restaurant, hotel, store, or boarding-house, this is indicated
by Saturn lord of the 6th and 7th, and also lord of the intercepted
sign in the 5th, afflicting the midheaven and being in square to Mars,
afflicting the 2d house; and also by Jupiter, lord of the 5th being in the

1 2th in square to the Moon. The Moon is always co-significator, if not
the only significator.

8///. Friends and Enemies.

Mercury lord of the 11th house in the 11th in Gemini; the Sun
and Venus also there, indicates that she will have many prominent
friends, but they will seldom continue to be good friends long, as Mer-
cury is in square to Uranus, which makes them fickle and uncertain

;

also the Moon being lady of the intercepting sign Cancer, being in the
sign Scorpio which is naturally a treacherous sign, being in square to

Jupiter in the 12th house (the house of sorrow and trouble), indicates

that a number of her friends will turn into secret enemies, also she is

liable to lose a number of her friends by death, as Jupiter is lord of the
8th house (the house of death). She will have more enduring friends

of the female sex, rather than the male sex; as Venus is in the 1 lth, in

Cancer, in good aspect to Neptune in Taurus in the midheaven, and
Venus is also in good aspect to Uranus in the 2d. Her male friends are

much more likely to be treacherous than her female friends, and also she
is more liable to lose money by her male friends, on account of Mercurv,
a masculine planet in the 11th house, being in square to Uranus in the
2d house (the house of money).

qth and \oth.—Morals and Religion—Relations and Journeys.

This lady will be of rather skeptical turn of mind, especially on
religious subjects, as Mars is lord of the 9th, and is afflicted by a square
of Saturn; but the Sun, her planet, being in good aspect to Mars, causes

her to be of a good moral tendency, and not any way vicious, but
inclined to be honorable in her dealings : as all persons born under the

Sun are, especially when the Sun is not afflicted. This ladv will be very
fortunate in regard to near relations, and also neighbors; Venus is lady
of the 3d house (the house of relations and neighbors), unafflicted in

the llth house, and in good aspect to Neptune and Uranus, indicates

that her neighbors and near relations will generally be her best friends,

it also indicates that she will be fortunate in short journeys, but not
fortunate in long journeys, especially in money matters, as Mars lord of



164 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

the 9th is afflicting the 2d, and is in square to Saturn in the midheaven.
This aspect will make her very unfortunate in lawsuits, especially any-
thing connected with church matters; her enemies will generally be of a

religious tendency or very pious.

1 1 th.—Marriage.

This lady will be unfortunate in her first marriage, and great danger
that she will separate from her husband, or he leaves her, any way it is

not a fortunate marriage, and it will cause her much unhappiness.

298 In all female horoscopes, we first see what aspect
and what planet the Sun first applies to, and whether that
aspect is a fortunate aspect, and that planet a fortunate
planet. If the Sun first makes an evil aspect of an evil
planet, say to a conjunction, square or opposition, of either
*> or £ , then that female, if she marries, will have an un-
happy married life, especially if there are evil planets in the
7th house (the house of marriage), or evil planets aspecting
the 7 th house, or if the lord of the 7 th house is an evil

planet, and is any way afflicted by evil aspects, especially by
being in square or opposition to ^> or $ .

299 But if the Sun applies to a good aspect of a fortunate
planet, sav to a conjunction, sextile, or trine of $ or 2£,
especially if 2£ or 9 be in the 7th house, or in good aspect to
the 7 th house, or a fortunate planet is lord of the 7 th house,
then that female lives happy in her married life with her first

husband.
300 We judge male horoscopes, in regard to marriage, by

the aspect the Moon makes, and not the aspects of the Sun,
as in female horoscopes. If the Moon in a male horoscope
makes a good aspect of a fortunate planet, say 21 or $ ,

especially if there are any fortunate planets in the 7 th house
(the house of marriage), or 2£ or $ is lord or lady of the 7th
house, then that male, if he marries, lives happily in married
life. But if the Moon first makes an evil aspect of an un-
fortunate planet, say *> or $ , and if J? or $ is lord of the
7th house, or in evil aspect to the 7 th house, or if the lord
of the 7th house is afflicted by an unfortunate planet, then
that male, if he marries, is unfortunate in married life, or
they separate soon after marriage; but sometimes the wife
dies shortly after marriage, or they do not have any children,
and much unhappiness in the family is caused on that
account.

301 Those aspects in a female's nativity which the Sun
makes either good or evil, to either f , 1$ or the J) are not to
be noticed, as she never or hardly ever marries the person
described by those planets; she will probably keep company



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 165

with persons described by those planets; and if the Sun
makes evil aspects to them, either conjunction, square, or
opposition, the native may meet much unhappiness, if not
disgrace by the persons described by those planets. The
same rule applies in male horoscopes when the J) is making
aspects of either f , ]$, or the O ; but the native does not
marry the lady described by those planets.

302 To find out the personal description in a female's horo-
scope of the parties that the native will keep company with,
and not marry, in addition to those already mentioned, see
what aspect the Sun is leaving- in a female's horoscope, and
that planet in the sign describes the parties she keeps company
with and does not marry ; also see whether any evil planets
be in the 7 th house, or the Moon is making or separating
from any aspect of any planet, and those planets describe the
gentleman sue keeps company with and does not marry.

303 To find out the description of the ladies in a male's horo-
scope that the native will keep company with, see what aspect
and what planet the Moon is separating from, and those
planets will describe the ladies the native keeps company with
but does not marry ; also notice what planets, especially evil
ones, are in the 7 th house.

304 When the Sun in a female's horoscope, or the Moon in a
male's horoscope, makes a square or opposition of evil planets,
especially if lord of the ascendant be making a square or
opposition of the lord of the 7 th, very often the native never
marries, or if he or she does, they are very likely to separate
soon after marriage.

305 The first planet that the Sun applies to, by aspect, in a
female's horoscope, describes the first husband of the native.
If the native marries a second time, then the second planet
that the Sun applies to by aspect, describes the second
husband. The third planet the Sun applies to describes the
third husband of the native, if she marries so many times,
and so in regard to the fourth planet, etc.

306 The first planet that the Moon applies to by aspect
describes the first wife of the native in a male's horoscope.
And the second planet that the Moon applies to by aspect
describes the second wife, if he marries a second time, and
so on.

307 The same rules apply in regard to the aspects and
planets that the Sun or Moon applies to in female or male
horoscopes, in reference to fortunate and unfortunate planets,
and good or evil aspects, etc. , in regard to the second or third
marriage, that it does in the first marriage, and whether they
live happy or unhappy *

in the second or third marriage, etc.



1 66 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

308 When nearly all the planets are rising or oriental, espec-
ially O, 11 and ? , the native generally marries early in life,

but if nearly all the planets are setting or occidental, the native
is almost certain to marry late in life, if they marry at all, or
to persons much younger than themselves.

309 If in a lady's horoscope the Sun makes a good aspect of
an evil planet, or in a gentleman's horoscope the Moon makes
a good aspect of an evil planet, or vice versa, then the parties
may not separate, but often have much unhappiness, or in some
cases what are termed love spats ; and by seeing what house
the planet is lord of that afflicts, it can often be pointed out
from what cause the unhappiness will arise, whether jealousy,
mother-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, religion, pov-
erty, etc.

In this lady's horoscope the Sun makes a good aspect of an evil planet
(Mars), and Mars is afflicted by a square of Saturn, and also Saturn is

lord of the 7th house (the house of marriage); therefore, although the
Sun makes a good aspect, yet Mars being an evil planet and so afflicted,

it will not be a happy marriage, as he will be very jealous, suspicious,

unfortunate, and often commenc2 rash or unreasonable undertakings.
He will be very willful, stubborn, and generally keep her poor. He
may be killed, commit suicide, or die of some violent fever ; they will

be far from being happy. She marries a second time, and the Sun next
makes a conjunction of Venus in the 1 ith house, and that being a for-

tunate planet and a fortunate aspect, she will live happy. He will be
refined, intelligent, and of a good-natured disposition, as Venus is in

good aspect to Neptune in the midheaven, and also Uranus in the 2d
house (the house of money); therefore, she will improve her circum-
stances by her second marriage. But before the Sun makes the conjunc-
tion of Venus, it makes a sextile of Neptune in the midheaven, and also

a sextile of Uranus in the 2d house. She will keep company with
gentlemen described by Neptune in Taurus in the midheaven, and
Uranus in Virgo, during her widowhood, but will not marry either, as

neither a man nor woman hardly ever marries a person described by either

Neptune or Uranus, but keeps company with those persons; but if

they do marry them, which is very seldom, they always make short,

unhappy marriages. In a lady's horoscope, they keep company with par-

ties before marriage, that the Sun is separating from and not applying to,

but never marry them ; the Sun is not separating from any planet
except the Moon. In this nativity the Moon is making a square of
Jupiter in the 12th house, she will keep company with the gentleman
described by Jupiter in Leo, previous to her first marriage, and will have
much sorrow and unhappiness caused by that gentleman, and he is very
likely to die early in life, or possibly before the lady marries her first

husband, as Jupiter is lord of the 8th house (the house of death) and is

in the 6th house (the house of sickness), from the 7th house ; there is

great danger of this lady meeting with disgrace from this gentleman



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. l6j

described by Jupiter in Leo, as he will pretend to be very pious and
religious ; this threatened disgrace is indicated mostly by Jupirer being
lord of the 5 th house (the house of children and pleasure), afflicting the

Moon in Scorpio, which governs the sexual organs. Her friends may
possibly prevent the disgrace, especially if they are forewarned.

12//2.— The Age when Married,

This horoscope does not indicate an early marriage, although she will

be engaged at 19, and will come near marrying, but it will be a serious

disappointment ; this is indicated by the Sun being in aspect to Mars
;

she will meet with, another serious disappointment at 2 1 ; that gentleman
may die and cause her much unhappiness, she is almost certain to marry
when 23. I may refer to this matter again in the " various contingencies
and events of life."

1 3///. —Children.

This horoscope is unfortunate for children, and she will only have a

small family ; it is extremely doubtful about her having more than one
or two children, or three at the most, and the probabilities are, that she

may not have any to live to maturity. Jupiter lord of the 5th house and
also lord of the 8th (an evil house), and in square to the Moon, her co-
significator, and the Moon is afflicted in the sign Scorpio (which governs
the lower part of the body), also Saturn lord of an intercepted sign in the
5th house is in square to Mars, which will cause her to suffer in health
when carrying children, and also cause miscarriages, as Virgo rules the
abdomen. Should she have any children to grow up, they will be a
world of sorrow and trouble to her.

\\th.—Health.

This lady will generally enjoy fair health, but will at times have
severe attacks of sickness, especially during gestation, on account of
Saturn being in square to Mars in Virgo; and the Moon in Scorpio in

square to Jupiter; but the "giver of life" unafflicted, indicates that she
has a good constitution, and will readily recover from sickness, or at least

will not remain sick for a long period at one time.

1 ^th.— The Various Contingencies and Events of Life.

These are judged, first, by examining closely all the positions of the
planets in the horoscope, and seeing which evil aspects will have the
most effect in the person's life and on their constitution, and also seeing
what fortunate aspects we can rely on to benefit the native in the
different periods of her life.

There are three kinds of aspects or directions, as they are sometimes
called, which control the various events of a person's life. The first are
the transits, the second are secondary directions, and the third are the
primary directions. The planets Saturn and Jupiter are the main planets
to relv on for transits in most horoscopes, and especially when Saturn
is afflicted by an evil aspect of an another planet, and when that



1 68 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

other planet is an unfortunate planet, as it is in the horoscope of
Mrs. Maud S.'s daughter. She has Saturn in the midheaven in square
to Mars, on the cusp of the zd house ; therefore, Saturn in passing
around the heavens in its revolutions, will every 7^ years form an evil

aspect to its own place and to Mars' place. Saturn takes 29 and nearly
one-half years to make one revolution around the heavens. Therefore,
when she is j\ years of age, it will be in conjuction with Mars' place and
in square to its own place; at 14^, it will be in opposition to its own
place and in square to Mars' place ; at 22, it will be in square to its own
place and in opposition to Mars' place ; at zg\ years it will be transiting

over its own place, and also in the midheaven and in square again to

Mars' place ; at the same time forming evil aspects to all the four angles
of the horoscope, which is equivalent to striking four blows at one time,
and as it will be in conjunction with Mars and afflicting the ascendant, in

opposition to the 7th house, and in square to the midheaven and the
4th house therefore, besides afflicting

; Mars*' place and in square to its

own place, it is afflicting all four angles of the horoscope at the same
time. These are termed very evil aspects.

The effect of these transits as they are termed, and also their influ-

ence on the native's life and health, are beyond our power to explain.

Although all these planets and the Sua and Moon, at 7 years of age will

be millions and millions of miles away from the positions they were
in when Mrs. Maud S.'s daughter was born yet whenever those planets

;

in their revolutions come in evil aspect to the radical places of those
planets, she is bound to feel their evil influence in some way, especially

if there are no good aspects of fortunate planets in operation at the same
time.

Sometimes an evil direction or transit of Saturn will cause the native

to be very ill ; at another time will cause an accident ; at another time
a near relation or parent will be very sick or die ; another time losses in

money matters ; another time it may bring lawsuits, domestic unhappi-
ness, quarrels with relations or separation of man and wife.

Saturn afflicting its own place and Mars' place, when it forms those

evil aspects, will also in a short time after each of those periods afflict

Mercury's and Uranus' places, every 7^ years, and also what is termed
the " Part of Fortune," which influences her money matters ; as the

planet Uranus is afflicting the 2d house, and is in square to the " Part

of Fortune," on the cusp of the 5th house, and is also in square to

Mercury in the 11th house (the house of friends).

In addition to those evil influences which Saturn causes every j\
years during its revolution around the heavens, there will be evil aspects to

other planets which it will form ; for instance, it will make a conjunction

of Jupiter's place in the 12th house (the house of sorrow), and be in

square to the Moon, the co-significator, when she is \\ years old, and
then every 7^ years after that age, it will form the conjunction, square
and opposition of those places again. For instance, at 12, 19J, 27 and
so on, as long as she lives.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 1 69

In addition to the evil aspects of Saturn to those various planets

mentioned above, we shall have to notice particularly in this horoscope,
the evil aspects of Mars to its own radical place and to the various other
planets, in its revolutions around the heavens, on account of it being in

evil aspect to Saturn in the midheaven at birth, and on account of Mars
afflicting the 2d house. For instance, Mars came to a square of its own
place on September 12, 1896, and to a conjunction of Saturn's place

on September 17th, and then to an opposition of "Part of Fortune "

on October 1st, a square of Uranus' place on October 5th, and a

conjunction of Mercury's place on October 20th, and it continued near
a conjunction of Mercury's place until November 13th. It turned
retrograde on November 3d, and really continued to afflict all those
positions of the planets until March 20, 1897. During all this time, if

she had been a woman, she would have had serious mental trouble, losses

of money, and treachery of false friends, or some kind of evil reports

circulated; but as she is only a girl of about 12 years old at this time,

it is more than likely that her parents might have had much trouble and
worry. Also, if Uranus or Neptune afflicts any of those places of the
planets at the time of birth, she is bound to feel the evil effects, and
even if Jupiter remains any length of time (on account of its retrograde
motion), in evil aspect to the Moon's or its own place, she will feel the
evil influence.

This young lady's good fortune will be caused chiefly by the good
aspects of Jupiter, Venus and the Sun, on account of those planets all

rising, and also by Neptune in the midheaven being in good aspect to

Venus and Uranus. To calculate those directions and transits all out,

would take up too much space in this volume, therefore, I leave it for

the young student to practice on.

The student should bear in mind that Jupiter takes nearly 12 years
to go around the heavens ; therefore, when she is one year and three
months old, it was in conjunction, which is a good aspect, to the Sun's
place, which would be a benefit; and within a few months afterward it

was in conjunction with Mars' place. Uranus takes 84 years to go
around the heavens, and 7 years to travel through one sign. Neptune
takes about 160 years to go around the heavens, or 14 years to travel

through one sign.

Besides the revolutions of the planets, we also notice what are termed
the Secondary Directions ; these are the aspects which the Sun and
Moon and planets form with each other ; and each day after birth is

reckoned a year in time of the native's life. For instance, on July 6,

1884, or four days after the child's birth, Mars came to a square of
Saturn's place, therefore, at 4 years of age, it was a very evil time for

that child, especially in regard to sickness, and also evil to the father, as

Saturn always indicates the father. On July 7, 1884, the Sun came to
a sextile aspect of Mars by secondary direction, and, therefore, at years

5
of age it would be a fortunate period for that child ; its health would
be good, and something favorable would occur for its parents, particu-
larly the father, as the Sun also indicates the father in a child's horoscope,



1 JO ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

and so on for the other planets. In addition to those aspects, there are

what are termed Primary Directions, which we have to notice. These
are reckoned by every degree in the longitude of the planets, as being
equal to one year in the child's life. For instance, Uranus is 4. degrees
from a square of Mercury's place, therefore, at 4. years of age it would
be an evil period for the child, and there being an evil secondary direc-

tion that came up for that year, it would intensify that secondary evil

direction. Those primary directions are reckoned both by what are

termed Direct, and also what are termed Converse Directions, that is,

they are both noticed when the planets are applying to the aspect, and
also when they are leaving any aspect. For instance, Jupiter is one
degree past a square of the Moon, and by converse directions, it would
be an evil period for the child at one year of age, as Jupiter will come
to a square of the Moon, the co-significator, by converse directions, it

being very near one degree from that aspect.

Besides those unfavorable periods mentioned on page 39, I will men-
tion that at 19 vears of age, *» will be transiting in her 6th house in

square to the moon and in opposition to Jupiter; it will produce poor
health for herself, sickness or death for her mother or for some female
relation ; also, as £ is in aspect to the Sun at birth, she will have some
serious unhappiness in love affairs at that time, as 19 years is what is

termed the period of £ . (I shall refer to these periods further on in

this volume. ) She will also have another unhappy time at 21, and
another serious unpleasantness in love matters, very likely some disaster

in her money affairs, or may meet with very heavy losses, or serious law
trouble that will threaten poverty, and possibly death of an old relation

or a near friend. It will be a very unfavorable time for her to marry
then, and the marriage would bring her much unhappiness. This is

shown by ^ coming to a square of its own place, in opposition to £ ,

and then in oppoition to I£l and to a square of ©. If she takes a long
voyage, she will suffer from stormy weather and be threatened with ship-

wreck or some serious disaster. At 27 years of age T
«> will be transiting

near the midheaven in opposition to the Moon, and in square to 2£.

This period will bring poor health and much unhappiness, and if married,
domestic unhappiness and great danger of separation. Marked evil

periods at 29 and 30, as J
2 will then be transiting over its own place in

the midheaven, in square to £ on the cusp of the 2d, and also coming
to a square of IJI in the 2d (the house of money), and in opposition to

©. This will be the most disastrous period she will have until she gets

to be near 59 years old; during this period her health will be poor,
sickness, if not death in her family, heavy losses, and much domestic
unhappiness, probably connected with a lawsuit, or might be a divorce, if

married, she is almost certain to be parted in some way from her husband.

In addition to transits, primary and secondary directions, there are

what are termed parallels, that is, when two planets have the same
declinations, it is called a parallel, the same as if one planet has the
same declination of either the Sun or the Moon. These parallels are

like conjunctions, that is, they are good with the good planets, and evil



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 1 7 1

with the evil ones. In some horoscopes these declinations or parallels

have a marked influence on the native's life, but when the declinations

are not within orbs at birth, they do not have much influence in that

particular nativitv. In the horoscope of Mrs. Maud S. 's daughter,

Jupiter was 18 degrees and 56 minutes in north declination on Jnly 2,

1884, and Venus was also 18 degrees and 28 minutes in north declina-

tion ; therefore, we call that a very close parallel, and they being the

two most fortunate planets that are known, they would have a marked
influence on the native's life, in producing good friends, especially female
friends who would be of great benefit to her. These parallels would
make this young lady much more sociable, pleasant, and agreeable in

her manners than she would have been, if Jupiter and Venus had been
wide apart in their declinations at her birth. The parallel is much
stronger when both the planets have north declinations, or when both
have south declinations, but even if one planet is north and the other is

near the number of degrees and minutes south declination, it is still

called a parallel ; but it is not as strong as when both planets have north
or both south declinations. The most evil parallels are Saturn and Mars,
and when they have near the same declinations at birth, it makes much
unhappiness for the native all through life, and their influence would be
similar to a conjunction of these two evil planets. In this horoscope,
the declinations of Saturn and Mars are over 5 degrees apart. Saturn
1 degree and 24 minutes south, and Mars is 6 degrees and 50 minutes
north ; therefore, they are not in what are termed orbs, and they have
but little influence in this child's horoscope.

\n the second volume of this work, I shall give special direction by
the rules of Trigonometry and Logarithms, how to calculate what are

termed the primary directions, parallels, etc.

The remainder of the transits and aspects in the horoscope of Mrs.
Maud S. 's daughter, that I have mentioned on page 39, I leave the

student to try and trace out himself by the rules already given, as I think

it will be good practice for him.

I will conclude this horoscope by mentioning a curious circumstance
which occurred lately at Scranton, Pa., and which was told to me by
Mr. E. T. Sweet, the night editor of the Scranton Tribune. He said :

" They wrote up and published in their paper a number of fictitious

horoscopes of leading politicians of their town, and associated them
wLh those individuals' time of birth." These horoscopes attracted

much attention, and were read extensively, but in order that the writer

might become familiar with certain Astrological names, or what are called

technical terms, he borrowed Lilly's Astrologv, bv Zadkiel, out of the

Public Library, and commenced reading the book with that object in

view, never dreaming that there was any truth in the science ; but as he
went on reading, he began to find out that Astrology was a true science

and instead of " concocting horoscopes," as the editor of the New York
Times calls it, he commenced to study Astrology in a systematic manner,
and wrote to me to procure for him a number of Astrological books, in



;

172 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

addition to those I had already published. I cannot but think, that if the
editor of the New York Times was to commence studying Astrology, he
would soon find that what he called a " debasing superstition," was,
in reality, one of the most beneficial and useful sciences that is known
to man, and that he was speaking a greater truth than he was aware of
in regard to himself, and other christian editors, when writing about
the "mournful incompleteness of modern civilization and education."

I have gone more into particulars in the foregoing horoscope than I

had intended, and it is much longer than any others in the following
pages ; but as the editor of the Neiv York Titties appeared to think
there was nothing whatever in Astrology, only what the Astrologer
concocts, I thought it best to give a few of the principles and rules that

Astrologers go by in calculating horoscopes. And should Mrs. Maud S.

ever read this horoscope of her daughter, I cannot but think that she
will admit that every paragraph that I have published is absolutely cor-
rect, and that if she follows the directions and advice herein given, it

may save her daughter and herself much unhappiness, if not disgrace.

Although in some respects her daughter's horoscope is somewhat marked,
yet those evil influences pointed in the girl's nativity are not entirely

inevitable, as those directions and aspects were in the horoscope of
Charles Dryden, as calculated by his father.

We sometimes meet with horoscopes where the position of the planets

in relation to each other, or what are termed aspects, are so striking or
marked that the native becomes almost like inert matter, that is, entirely

controlled by natural laws, or like a cork on water subject to the wind
and tides, and has no will of his own. In such cases, the rules and
principles of Astrology become like the laws of the Medes and Persians,

which cannot be altered.

I cannot impress too strongly on the mind of the student the import-
ance of being familiar with the nature and description of the houses,
signs and planets, and their relation to each other. If he has all these

well impressed upon his mind, he will find his work comparatively easy

in studying Astrology. At first he will find some difficulty in tracing

the transits or revolutions of the planets through the signs of the Zodiac,
and through the different houses, especially to the angles ; and also to

the aspects and conjunctions of the radical positions of the Sun, Moon
and planets at birth ; and, at the same time, calculate the secondary
directions, also the primary directions, and combine the whole pre-

;

dicting correctly their effects on the events and contingencies of the
native's life. In addition to the above, he will have to know how to

calculate Revolutions. This is done by first calculating the exact degree,

minute and second that the Sun was in at birth ; then calculate when
it arrives in any particular year, in the same sign, and the same degree,

minute and second ; then erect a chart of the heavens for that time
that is called the Revolution for that year.

If the student does not become familiar with all the elements of the
science, he is very similar to a person making calculations in arithmetic
who has not become familiar with the elementary branch of that science.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 1 73

For instance, if he wanted to multiply a row of figures by any particular

number, and every time he attempted to multiply a figure by another
figure, he had to commence with the multiplication table—twice l is 2,

twice 2 is 4, until he arrived at the multiplication of those two particular

figures, he would be a long time getting through, and the chances are

th?t it would not be correct, even after he thought he had completed
the example.

I once heard of a woman who received a love-letter when a girl, and
she preserved it until she was over 70 years old, and it became yellow
with age, and soiled with handling, still she would put on her spectacles

and read it, and commence, " M-y, my; d-e-a-r, dear, My dear, 1-o-v-e,

love, My dear love," and so she kept on until she got through the whole
letter, and never learned to read it right along. Had this woman learned
to spell, read and write properly when she was young, she would have
then commenced reading and gone right on without any hesitation until

she got to the end ; and would have read it with more satisfaction, than
having to spell each word and repeat each word and sentence. So any
person who learns the elements of Astrology properly, that is, the nature
of the houses, the signs, the planets, and the aspects, will commence
reading a horoscope with the same facility that a person reads a page in

a book in a known language; not only that, but it he knows abso-
lutely that the time of birth is correct, or that the time he has set a

horoscope for, on special business, is the correct time, he knows then
that what he is reading will be all true and correct, as the planets do
not lie—whereas the page in the book might be all fiction or untruths
from beginning to end.

As the student progresses, he will be astonished at the exact truth and
correctness of Astrology, and wonder how the ancients could have
collected so many facts and rules, especially when he comes across horo-
scopes that are not what is termed complicated. For instance, a horoscope
of a person born under Jupiter in Saggittarv, with Jupiter and the Moon
both in the same sign in the ascendant, and not in aspect to any other
planet, or any other planet aspecting the ascendant. When the student
meets w'th a horoscope of that kind, he not only can describe that

person accurately, either verbally or in writing; but if the student is

anvthing of an artist, he can draw almost an exact picture of that person;
describe how he will look when a young man at the age of 24 give the

;

color of the hair and eyes, or any particular striking features, and the
height and build, even before the native is a month old ; not only that,

but he can give a correct description of the lady that he will marry, or
whether they will live happy or unhappy, also the kind of business that

he would succeed in. and the various talents and inclinations ; his dispo-
sition and temper, the special diseases that he will be liable to ; length
of life, and manner of death, etc.

But in those horoscopes where what is termed the lord of the ascend-
ant is in a tall, light sign, and the sign ascending is a stout, cTark sign

;

and the Moon in a tall, light sign, it is much more difficult to become
familiar with all these variations. But by constant study, he will be



174 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

able to describe a person under such conflicting testimonies : but it cannot
be done without a great deal of practical experience in the science.

But the first thing to be done, and which is very important, is that the
student should always find the correct positions of the signs of the Zodiac,
and calculate the longitude of the planets correctly, and never make a

mistake; because if he should have the position of the planets wrong in

a horoscope, it is impossible for him to proceed without committing
errors. The student must know already that it takes considerable
knowledge to even calculate a map of the heavens correctly. Mr.
Charles A. Dana, editor of the New York Sun, advises all his readers
never to pay an Astrologer more than 25 cents, for reading or writing a

nativity. The reader must see that it is worth 25 cents to calculate the
horoscope, without reading or writing the same ; and the question is,

would Charles A. Dana like to give up his position as editor of the
New York Sun to calculate horoscopes and write them at 25 cents each.

It is evident that Charles A. Dana looks on Astrology in the same
light as the editor of the New York Times. It is strange that such
men who are generally well informed in many respects (indeed if they
were not, they could not hold their positions), look on every kind of
learning which they do not understand, or was not taught them in

college, as " debasing superstition," and all those persons who do not
think and believe as thev do, thev regard as "ignorant and supersti-

tious," and thev bewail the "mournful incompleteness of modern
civilization and education," and think those persons' knowledge and
learning to be entirely harmful in their influence on the rising genera-
tion, and that any person practicing or teaching those sciences should
be subject to all kinds of persecution, and the public should be taught
to rob and injure them all they possibly can. Even ministers of the

gospel, judges and legislators, entertain similar ideas.

As the student advances in the noble science of Astrologv, he will

gradually begin to find that those persons who stood so high as learned
and scientific men in his estimation, will be gradually lowered from their

high pinnacle of scientific attainments, and the public will no longer send
"strange problems" to be "confidentially propounded" by those "jour-
nalists," especially when the readers find that the editors themselves do
not know half as much on the subject as the reader himself. See p. 47c.

The next horoscope is that of the Chinese Consul's Son, referred to on
page 35. I insert this on account of it being especially good for first marriage,
but it is also good for several marriages in succession, it he is so disposed.
Some of my readers may think that I picked this out of several thousand
Chinese times of birth, but this is the only one I had ; so I had " Hobson's
Choice." I insert it to show the effect that Astrology has produced in the
nativities of successive generations bv comparing horoscopes before marriage.

The one following is Queen Victoria's. She has no patience with a

divorced woman, and it is said she will not receive one at Court. No doubt
she thinks it is every married woman's own fault if thev do not have the Sun
apply to a good aspect of the planet Jupiter, in its own sign and lord of the
7th house (the house of marriage) as she has. I shall endeavor, as I

proceed, to make every horoscope either " point a moral or adorn a tale."



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. IJ$

HOROSCOPE OF THE CHINESE CONSUL'S SON.

He was born July 25, 1895, at l A* M. , No. 26 West 9th Street,

New York City. See pages 35 and 36 of this volume.

To calculate this child's horoscope, the student will require Raphael's
Ephemeris for 1895, and he will see in the Ephemeris for July of
that year, in the 3d column the heading "Sidereal Time," and on a

line with the 25th day, 8 hours 11 minutes and 47 seconds. If he adds
12 hours from noon of the previous day up to 12 o'clock night, and
then 1 hour for 1 o'clock in the morning, he will find that it amounts
to 21 hours and nearly 12 minutes. If he looks in the Table of Houses
for New York City, he will find under the heading " Sidereal Time,"
the nearest figures to that amount is, 21 hours 13 minutes and 52 seconds,

and on a line with that number in the Table of Houses, he will find

the various signs to be written on the 10th, 11th, 12th, and the ascend-

ant or 1st house, the 2d and 3d houses, which he will copy in the blank
chart, with their degrees and minutes along side, and then copy the

opposite signs which are shown on page 143. He will also copy the
degrees and minutes which are along side the northern signs in the chart.

Then the student will commence to insert what are called the

planets' places ; and he will find that 1 o'clock in the morning is just 6
hours before 7 o'clock ; therefore, he will deduct one-fourth of the degrees
or minutes from what are marked in the Ephemeris on the 25th, which
the planets have traveled from the 24th to the 25th at 7 o'clock in the

morning, and the remainder is the positions of the planets in the signs

and houses. In the horoscope he will also insert the 's
J) (North) Node

( & ), which he will find on the 2d page of the Ephemeris near the top
on the right hand, and the J) 's (South) Node ( £5 ) he will place in

the opposite sign, giving it the same degrees and minutes.

After the student has calculated the longitude of all the planets, and
written them in the blank chart, then he will proceed to calculate the
" Part of Fortune " (©). (See 292-293.) This is done by adding the

longitude of the ascendant to the longitude of the Moon, and then frorr

that subtract the longitude of the Sun, and the remainder is the longitud(
of the " Part of Fortune "

( ).

In making these calculation, we always count from the beginning oi

the sign °P , and when we insert © in its proper place in the horoscope,
we also count from the beginning of the sign T- In this horoscope °f

is on the cusp of the 12th house, and 8 is intercepted in the 12th
house, this makes the ascendant 2 signs, 9 degrees and 23 minutes If

we count again from °f to the sign next to the one that the Moon is in,

we shall find it to be 5 signs, and the Moon is 14 degrees and 25 minutes
in the 6th sign :

Ascendant, 2 signs, 9 degrees, 23 minutes,
Moon, 5 " "

14 25

Add '

7 " "
2 3 48



:

176 ELEMENTS OK ASTROLOGY.

Again, if the student counts rrom °p next to the sign that the Sun is

in, he will find it is 4 signs ; and the Sun is 2 degrees and o minutes in

the 5th sign ; if he subtracts 4 signs 2 degrees and o minutes from 7
signs 23 degrees and 48 minutes, he will find the following result

7 signs, 23 degrees, 48 minutes,
Subtract 4 " 02 " 00 "

"
3 " 21 48

He will find that is 3 signs 21 minutes and 48 seconds, and if he
counts from the beginning of °P to the end of the sign n, he will find

that it is 3 whole signs, therefore, the is 21 degrees and 48 minutes in

the 4th sign, which is £p, and near the cusp of the 3d house.*

The following chart is a map of the heavens for the time of birth

of the Chinese Consul's Son, born July 25, 1895, 1 A. M., New York
City.

^\S

* In this volume I shall avoid, if possible, entering into any discussions or arguments with
other Astrologers, or taking sides with those who differ among themselves, and will only train
my guns on the public enemies of Astrology. I shall be the last one to discharge any ammunition
on the professors of this science. But there is one part of Astrology which is technically called
the " Part of Fortune," and which has been a bone of contention among Astrologers for lumdieds,
if no: thousands, of years, that I cannot pass without giving to it a few words of explanation, and
seeing it I ca 1 reconcile those differences of opinion on that point.

Mr. James Wilson in his "Astrological Dictionary," calls the ''Part of Fortune '' a "bunch
of nothing hatched in the brain of Claudius Ptolemy," and he goes on to ridicule the idea witli much
sarcasm. Hut other Astrologers, such as Sibiey, and several others whose names I have forgotten,
attach much importance to the "Part of Fortune,'' and regard it and its influence very n uch in a
similar light to what we regard the influence of what are termed the seven planets They not only
attribute to its good or evil influence (according to its aspects) of the native's financial affairs, or
what is termed money matters, but they also give it the power to determine the length < f life pi the
native, the same as the Sun or Moon, when either of them are " Hvlee," or whe-i llv se 'it ii ;>iies

are not posited in the " Hvlegical Places.'' and the Part of Fortune happens to be so i railed that
is from 5 degrees above the cusp of the ascendant to 25 degrees below; or from 5 dn'ree 1 elow
the cusp of the 7th house to 25 degrees above, and from 5 degrees below the cusp of the 9th house
to 25 degrees below the cusp of the nth house.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. \JJ

[I wish to inform the student that I have written this horoscope with-
out once referring to the text books giving the rules and principles of

Astrologv. Similar to writing a letter without referring to the dictionary

to see whether I have spelled each and every word correctly, or whether
I have expressed the exact meaning of each and every word which I

have made use of in writing the letter. It is advisable that the student
become equally familiar with the principles and rules of this fascinating

science, so that he can adopt the same method in reading a horoscope,
and scarcely ever make a mistake, unless he happens to come across a

nativitv where the position of the planets and signs of the Zodiac are

such that he has never seen anything like them before. In that case, he
will then have to refer to the rules and principles of Astrology that have
been laid down in the numerous text books that have been published on
this science ; as he might refer to an English dictionary to find the exact
spelling or meaning of a word that he had never met with.]

This child was born under the planet Mercury ( £ ), in the sign 23
(131), just commencing to rise, in sextile to the Moon (247) and the
planet $ 2 44-)> both m the sign TT& (121-145) in the 5th house, and

(

also in trine to I£t 2°9) in the sign TT[, in the 6th house, with
( n (15)

and f on the ascendant. All the planets are under the earth, which
causes it to be a weak horoscope, both for health, life, and arriving at

prominence.

If the Part of Fortune should happen to be in any of these positions above-named, and neither
the Sun or the Moon are in these places, they say that in these cases the Part of Fortune is Hyleg
or the "Giver of Life,'' and these Astrologers have given a number of illustrations of horoscopes
to prove their assertion I must say that I disagree with these Astrologers, and believe, from my
own experience, that the Part of Fortune has only reference to the native's money matters or his
financial standing. In all horoscopes which I have carefully examined whenever the Part of
Fortune has been much afflicted by the conjunctions or evil aspects of the unfoitunate planets,
although the native may be wealthy in the common sense of the term, yet he is generally very
hard up for ready cash, and often meets with serious disaster or misfortune on account of not being
able to command money on short notice But when the Part of Fortune is in good aspect to
fortunate planets and in what are termed good houses in the native's horoscope, I have found that
he generally keens in easy circumstances, and has a comfortable income, and is enabled to pay his
debts. If the Part of Fortune is very much afflicted by evil planets, or on the contrary it is in
good aspects with the fortunats planets, and also in fortunate houses, these conditions of the native's
money matters may have much influence on the native's life, and in some cases when very much
afflicted, mav have a tendency to shorten it. It should always be borne in mind, that when the
native is young or in infancy, these evil aspects to his money matters generally fall on the parents
or guardians, and so afflict the native indirectly.

When the Part of Fortune is in cadent houses and has no aspects to any particular planet, either
good or bad, I find that it is not worth while taking any notice of it, as in these instances it has
very little influence in the condition of the native's life, or even in his money matters or worldly
circumstances.

It is only these persons who have had but little experience or practice in Astrology who wish
to discard entirely the Part of Fortune. Although in some horoscopes it has but little influence,
yet the student will find in others that it has a very great influence on the native's money affairs.

I sincerelv hope that the student will find in his own horoscope that the Part of Fortune is either
in the ascendant, 2d, nth, midheaven, 7th or 5th houses, and that it is in good aspect to Jupiter,
V mus, the Sun and Moon. If such is the case, he will certainly find his path through life very
much smoother and happier than the majority.

In the horoscope of the daughter of Mrs. Maud S., her Part of Fortune is very much afflicted
by an opposition of Mercury, and a square of Uranus, and she will certainly feel the effect of these
afflictions all through life. In the horoscope of the Chinese Consul's Son, the Part of Fortune is

in conjunction with the planet Jupiter, in the sign Cancer, and Jupiter is in its exaltation ; also the
Moon disposes of the Part of Fortune ; and the Moon is in conjunction with Venus, and both are
in good aspect to Mercury, Jupiter and the Part of Fortune. We say in this case that the Part
of Fortune is very strong, and well dignified by having so many good aspects, even if cadent.

The Part of Fortune is a point which is the same distance from the ascendant that the Moon
is from the Sun, and it is called the luminary to the ascendant. It is a'wavs under the earth, frcm
New Moon to Full Moon, and above the earth from Full Moon to New Moon again.



1^8 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Those positions of the planets will describe a person near or above
the medium height, stands about 5 feet 7 or 8 inches; rather well built,

but will never become stout, and will be rather slender during his early
years ; have a rather thin or oval face, slightly high forehead ; sharp
nose, small, dark eyes ; dark brown or black hair, and rather dark or
muddy complexion. He will not be handsome, but will be rather. good
looking, somewhat prepossessing and talkative. The rules of Astrologv
say (131): "He will be deceitful, changeable, and at times ill-natured

and dishonest." But <3 in close sextile to the Moon (247) and 9- ?
( 44-)

improves his disposition, and makes the native have a refined and accom-
plished mind ; will be neat in his person and elegant in manners ; a lover

of music and the fine arts; ingenious, subtle, easily learning anything to

which he applies his mind ; inclined to be reserved, but on account of

his extensive acquirements, he will be a pleasant companion.

Health and Life.

He has a rather good constitution, but will never be strong or robust,

as the ascendant is the "Giver of Life" (see page 157), and his planet

£ is in a weak sign (16); still there is a chance of his living to be
rather old, but not to a great age, as the evil planet *> is in the 6th
house (6) (the house of sickness), and in the sign Vi[ (20), and in square
to the Sun. This aspect will make him liable to weakness of the

kidneys, bladder, and lower part of the body, and also palpitation of the

heart, on account of the Sun being in £\,, which governs the heart, and
he will be liable to derangement of the stomach and liver, and nervous-
ness on account of $ , which rules the nervous system, being weak in

the sign <2>, which sign rules the stomach and liver.

Riches and Poverty.

This native will never be in very low circumstances, but will always
be rather well to do, and have wealthy relations, as 2£ is on the cusp of

the 3d house, near a sextile of the ^) and ? (231—227) in the 5th
house, and both in sextile to the native's planet £> , in the 2d house
(the house of money). He will be fortunate with speculation, and any
property and stocks, or values he may possess, is likely to advance.

Trade and Profession.

This native will never work for his living, and doubtful about his

learning any particular trade. He would be very successful as a musician,

actor (245 and 199), or being connected with places of amusement or

entertainments, on account of the 5th house being so well aspected and
fortified by fortunate planets. He would also be fortunate in any kind

of traveling, or being engaged on railroads, or being a traveling agent,

or in any business that cause him to take short journeys; as the J), lady

of the 3d house, is in good aspect to # , % and the Part of Fortune
(0), in the 3d house, and the J) in r/ with $ in the 5th house. He
would also be successful in keeping a store, especially selling anything
appertaining to women's apparel, such as silks, satins, fancy articles, or



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 1 79

jewelry, on account of the rf of $ and ^, and both in >k to # . He
would be fortunate as a stock broker, especially railway stocks, and, in

that respect, might become very wealthy. He would be unfortunate in

keeping a boarding-house, practicing law, or being a minister, as y
j is

lord of the 9th house, afflicting the 6th house, and in to the O; also

unfortunate in taking long journeys, or in lawsuits.

Friends and Enemies.

He will be very fortunate with friends, they will be of benefit to him,
especially near relations, as 2£ lord of the 11th house is in his exaltation

on the cusp of the 3d house in rf with ©, and in good aspect to ?
and also is lady of the 3d house.

J He will scarcely ever have any
)

poor relations, or persons that he will have to assist. He will have very
few secret or public enemies, as $ is lady of an intercepted sign 8 in

the 11th house in cj with the Would
J) be unfortunate with servants,

.
especially elderly or poor people, and also unfortunate with small animals,

as the 6th house is afflicted by T
2 in D to 0.

Marriage and Children.

He will be fortunate in marriage, and will live happy ; but previous
to marriage, he will have two or more disappointments in love affairs; one
is indicated by a lady described by the planet £ in ® ( 1 3 1 ), as the

J)
is leaving a >(c of £ (3°3)> and the other by a lady described by the
planet I£t in Tf[ (63). The first will be similar in appearance to himself,

but not so tall or heavily built and lighter complexioned. The second will

be rather thick-set, dark complexion, broad face and forehead, and older
than himself. He marries a person indicated by the planet $ in TTJ2. (121).
She will be nearly as tall as himself, slender build, have an oval face,

round forehead, slightly dark complexion, with clear skin, and dark or
black hair. She will be very prepossessing and agreeable in manners,
polite and accomplished. She will also be ingenious, active, eloquent,
and aspiring, as $ is in rj with

J) (198), and both in % to £ (243 and
244). They will live very happily (300). Should he take a second
wife (306), it will be very fortunate, and they will live happily. She is

described by the planet 71 in ® (83) She will not be near as tall as

the first one, and will be slightlv full built, rather pale skin, dark brown
hair, rather plump, or round build, high forehead, and slightly full face,

and prominent eyes. She will be very agreeable, wealthy, and most
likely a realative, as % is in the 3d house (the house of relatives).

His wives are very likely to have six or more children, as his horo-
scope is very fortunate for children, especially as £, lord of the 5th
house, is in a fruitful sign, and the J) and ? are both in the 5th house,
in good aspect to $ , his ruling planet. His children will be very for-

tunate, and arrive at eminence. They are more likely to be girls than
boys, on account of two feminine planets being in the 5th house (the
house of children). He will probably marry when about 22 years of
age, if not, then at 26, but it is nore likely that he will be married a

second time, when he is 26, as it is customary in China for the. wealthy
to have more than one wife.



l80 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Fortunate and Unfortimate Periods, or the Various Contingen-
cies and Events of Life.

In addition to learning what to rely on in describing the
native, and also to find out the mental qualities, or the
profession, trade, business or occupation that a person is

best adapted for, together with the description of friends or
enemies, or whether fortunate or unfortunate marriage, and
description of the person that the native will marry, etc.

The student must acquire the habit of instantly finding out
in particular horoscopes, what kind of aspects or directions
he can rely on, which causes the various contingencies
and events in that person's life. He will find by practice
and constant observation, that there are certain aspects in
certain particular horoscopes, that he can always rely on in
causing these changes or events, and which will have a marked
effect in different periods of that person's life.

310 If a number of the superior planets are in square or
opposition to each other, especially Mars, Saturn and Uranus,
and particularly if the Sun and Moon are in square or oppo-
sition ; the student can always depend on what is called the
transits for producing the unfortunate events in that person's
life.

311 When the superior planets, and particularly the Sun
and Moon, and Jupiter and Venus are in trine or sextile to
each other, the student can always depend upon the transits
of Jupiter, and sometimes even of Venus or the Sun for pro-
ducing marked fortunate periods of that person's life.

312 If, at any time, in a horoscope of that kind, when a
fortunate transit occurs of Jupiter, and an evil aspect or
Saturn or Mars occur near the same time, it is very difficult

to tell which will have the preponderance, but generally in
such cases, if there are two good ones to one evil one, then
the good influence will predominate, but if there are two evil
ones to one good one, and particularly if these evil ones are
either Saturn or Uranus, then you can depend upon the evil
one predominating at that particular period of the native's
life, and he will be afflicted by some particular evil, although
sweetened by some slight favorable event.

313 When there is no particular aspect, either sextile,

trine, square, conjunction or opposition in the native's
horoscope, then the secondary directions have the most
influence in causing the various events in the different
periods of the native's life, either good or evil.

314 When a number of superior planets at a time of birth
are applying by aspect to either a square, opposition, sextile,



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 18 1

trine or conjunction, then the primary directions have gener-
ally the most marked influence on that native's life.

315 But when the aspects of sextile, trine, conjunction,
square or opposition are past, at the time of birth, the prim-
ary directions, have but little influences in that particular
horoscope, or on the native's life.

316 The student must always bear in mind that Jupiter
takes very near 12 years to go around the heavens, or one
year to transit through one sign; therefore, these aspects,
either good or evil, reckoned by the transits can easily be
calculated, either to the angles or to particular planets;
the aspects to the Sun and Moon are particularly to be
noticed.

317 Saturn takes a little over 29J years to go around the
heavens, or 2| years to transit through one sign, and the
conjunctions, squares or opposition of Saturn must generally
be noticed; the trine or sextile aspects of Saturn have but
little effect; but sometimes they will bring marked good,
especially if the nativity indicates benefit by wills or legacies.

318 Mars takes 1 year and 10 months to go around the
heavens, or it averages over 7 weeks to transit through one
sign. Uranus takes 84 years to go around the heavens, or 7
years to transit through one sign. .Neptune takes nearly 14
years to transit through one sign.

319 The transit of Venus, Mercury and the Moon can
scarcely be noticed in a horoscope for either good or evil,

but the transits of the Sun are very often important, especially
if the native has the Sun in good aspect to Jupiter, Venus
or the Moon in the midheaven or ascendant, then near the
birth-day it generally brings some good fortune to the native.
For instance, I have the Sun in the midheaven at birth ; when
ever the Sun comes around to its own place, unless some
prominent evil aspects are in operation at the time, it gen-
erally brings me some slight good fortune.

320 Primary directions are aspects which occur either
before or after birth, and the number of degrees that the
planets have to go in order to form the aspects, correspond
with the same number of years of the native's life. These
directions which occur after birth, are termed direct direc-
tions, and those which occured before birth, and when
calculated backwards, are called converse directions. When
a planet is in a sign of short ascension, when making an
aspect either direct or converse, we must reckon a little less
than a year in time for a degree in longitude, and when a
planet is in a .sign of long ascension we reckon a littlet more
than a year for a degree. It is easy to find or notice these



l82 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

aspects within a few years after birth, but when the native
gets beyond 60 or 70 years of age, it takes an experienced
astrologer to pick these aspects out and calculate them
correctly.

321 Secondary directions are those aspects which occur from
day to day after birth, and each day is reckoned a year. For
instance, the secondary directions for the first year are those
aspects that occur in the horoscope in the first 24 hours of the
native's life. The secondary directions for the second yea?
occur in the horoscope in the second 24 hours of the native's
life. In order to calculate them correctly, the student will find
it easier to place the signs of the Zodiac in a blank chart
the same as they were at birth, and place the original number
of degrees and minutes along side of each sign the same
as they were in the horoscope, and then calculate the position
of the planets for that da^ r

, for the same hour and minute
that the child was born, and place them on the chart the same
as if the child had been born on the 2d or 3d day, etc. For
example, the second year of the child's birth, he will calculate
the position of the planets as they are 24 hours after birth,
and place them in the chart. That is the secondary directions
for the second year, and so on for the other days correspond-
ing to the years all through life.

In the horoscope of the Chinese Consul's Son, the primary directions

and the transits will have the most marked effect in the events of his life,

on account of Saturn being so near a square of the Sun, and the Sun
lord of the 4th house, and Saturn in the 6th; also Mars' primary direc-

tions or transits will have a marked effect on account of it being in an angle

at birth. The transits of Jupiter will have the most marked effect for

good in this horoscope, whenever it is either in conjunction, square,

opposition, sextile or trine to its own place, it will form good aspects to

Venus and the Moon, and, also, generally to the planet Uranus. At
one year old this child would have severe attacks of sickness, as the Sun
would come by converse direction to a square of Saturn, which is one
degree apart, also Saturn would transit over Uranus' place at birth near
that time, but at three years of age it would have a good transit of
Jupiter in sextile to its own place and of Mercury's place (his own
planet), also it would be transiting over the Moon's and Venus'
places, and in good aspect to Uranus' place. Every 7 years this child

will have an evil period, as it will always feel, in a marked degree, the

square, opposition and conjunction of Saturn to its own place, and in this

horoscope it would be in evil aspect to the Sun's place, and would soon
afterwards form an evil aspect to Uranus' place and to a square of

Mars' place. The most critical times for the native were when one
year old, and again when 14 years old; in the latter case, Saturn will

be in opposition to its own place and in square to the Sun's place, and
the Sun will come by primary direction to a conjunction of Uranus'



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.. I03

place, in the 6th house (the house of sickness), and Saturn lord of the

9th house, shows danger of death by a mistake of the doctor. I will

leave the remainder of these aspects of the native's life to be calculated

by the student, and would advise him to read over again the last para-

graph on page 167, and the whole of page 168, and the first paragraph
on p:ige 169.

When giving judgment on a weak horoscope like the above, in order

to assist the student to decide whether the child will live, Claudius
Ptolemy tells us to procure the time of birth of .both parents, and if

they both have evil horoscopes for children, then, if the child has a

weak horoscope, it generally dies ; but if they both have good horo-
scopes for children, then that child with a weak horoscope generally

lives, unless the horoscope is very weak or afflicted.

A SYNOPSIS OF MEDICAL ASTROLOGY.
In order to simplify the study of Astrology as much as possible, it was

my original intention, when I laid out the plan of the parts of the Ele-
ments of Astrology, to have deferred mentioning, or in any way describing

any of the ailments that the human system is subject to, until the latter part

of the volume, where I intended bringing the whole subject of diseases

or ailments caused by planatery influence to the attention of the student,

but, at the same time, not with any intention of making doctors or
practitioners of medicine of the student of Astrology. But if he had any
knowledge of medicine or had attended a medical college, he would find

Astrology, in that case, of infinite advantage in his practice of medicine.
As I progressed, I found it difficult to proceed without noticing, to

some extent, the various ailments of the native, and impossible to describe
them, without giving some general information and rules on the matter.
Yet I shall enter more fully into Medical Astrology near the close of this

volume. The most difficult part to overcome in this branch of As-
trology is to modernize it, as there has been few, if any, works
published for many years on that subject.

Some two or three hundred years ago, there were a great many books
published by numerous authors, treating on this subject, and some of
them were exceedingly good, and evinced an extensive knowledge
of Medical Astrology, and such that I cannot help but believe that

had the medical professors at the present day an equal knowledge,
the death rate of the people would become encouragingly less within a

few years. I have quite a number of these works in my library. But
they are too voluminous to be made use of in a work of this kind, where I

intend giving only an outline of Medical Astrology, and have no inten-
tion of writing specially for the medical profession only in an indirect
manner.

Some twenty years ago, Prof. Draper, of New York, published a

long article in Harper's Magazine, which was said to have been
delivered as a lecture before the students of a popular medical college of
New York City, in -which he took special pains to ridicule Astrology
in connection with medicine, and gave that lecture to convince the



J 84 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

students what rapid strides the science and art of medicine had made
within the last two hundred years. Of course he took it for granted
that all the students he was lecturing to were equally as ignorant on
the subject as himself, and had he not published the lecture in a popular
periodical, it is possible that no further attention would have been given
to the matter, but as he laid himself open to criticism by publishing the
lecture, I think I ought not to let the matter pass without giving it some
notice.

Had Prof. Draper, instead of ridiculing William Lilly's Astrologv
before his students, looked into almost any book on the sciences, arts or
professions that were published two or three hundred years ago, he
would not have found the subjects they treated of as perfect as we find

them at the present day. Therefore, why did he single out Astrology
as a target above all other sciences and hold it up to public ridicule ?

It is true, that the professors of Astrology were influenced or hampered
by medical absurdities two or three hundred years ago, the same as

the doctors are at the present day hampered by similar absurdities.

If Prof. Draper had examined Astrology as taught and practiced in

William Lilly's time, it would have compared very favorably with
anatomy, physiology, chemistry, materia medica, surgery or obstetrics,

as taught two or three hundred years ago.

If he had examined medical books in those days he would have
found the authors writing about the wind in the veins and arteries, and
other similar complaints and diseases, and remedies recommended for

such diseases (indeed the word arteries is derived from the word air,

as the doctors in those days believed that nothing but air circulated in

the arteries). Chemists would have told him all about the division of

the elements into four, earth, air, fire and water, and also into phlogistics

and anti-phlogistics ; besides numbers of other things too numerous
to mention.

Even the Astrologers were hampered by the absurdities of the Astrono-
mers, as in those days they nearly ail believed that the earth was in the

centre of the universe, and that the whole of the heavenly bodies revolved
around it once in twenty-four hours, which caused day and night.

Indeed, ifwe except mathematics, architecture, sculpture and painting,

all other sciences, arts or professions were in the same boat with As-
trology. Only that the science of Astrology was much further advanced
than any other of the sciences, arts or professions, if we except the few
above-mentioned, as there had been much more attention and study
devoted to it than any of the other sciences, by astrologers and physicians

Therefore, had Prof. Draper wished to turn the medical college into

a comic opera house for the amusement of his students almost any other

science or profession that was in vogue or popular two or three hundred
years ago, would have answered his purpose much better than that of
Astrology. If he had looked into almost any medical or surgical book
during the time of William Lily, he would have found material for

laughter that would have far surpassed that in Lily's Astrology. But
if he had wanted material connected with the practice of medicine



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. l8$

to compose a farce or comic opera, he need not have gone so far back
as the early part of the seventeenth century. Neither would he have
had any occasion to go out of the United States for his material. Not
one hundred years ago, he could have gone to Mount Vernon, Virginia
(if the matter had not been too serious for jest), and have found
all that he needed in the last sickness and death of General Washington,
as published on page 349 in this volume.

It may be asked why has not Astrology advanced within the last two
or three hundred years as the other sciences? We answer, it has

advanced, and if it has not kept pace with the sciences above alluded to,

the reason is that Astrology and Astrologers have endured more perse-

cution than all the other sciences and professions combined. When the

public became crazy on the subject of witch-craft, the professors of
Astrology were classed with witches and wizards, and they had to

endure similar persecution. They were betwixt the upper and nether
mill stones, for if they predicted correctly they had dealings with
the devil and were executed as witches, and if they were wrong in their

predictions they were persecuted for being frauds. In short, they were
betwixt the devil and the deep sea. Those persecutions are now dying
out, and the people will see Astrology make as rapid advancement as

any of the other sciences, as the public are waking up to the truth and
importance of that science.

Parts of the Body Ruled by the 12 houses and the 12 signs

of the Zodiac.

322 The 12 houses govern the various members of the
body, the same as the 1 2 signs of the Zodiac govern them.
The 1 st house and T govern the head; the 2d and 8 the
neck; the 3d and n the shoulders, arms and hands; the 4th
and 23 the breast and stomach; the 5th and ft the heart and
back ; the 6th and tt& the intestines, uterus and abdomen ; the
7th and =^= the lower part of the back, kidneys and bladder;
the 8th and tt[ the generative organs, both male and female;
the 9th and $ the hips and thighs; the 10th and V3 the knees
and legs; the nth and £? the ankles and lower part of the
legs, the 12th and ^ the feet.

Diseases of °p ivJien Afflicted by Evil Planets.

323 Denotes neuralgia of the head or face, headache, tooth-
ache, baldness, swelling or pimples on the face, small-pox,
gumboils, hair-lip, polypus of the throat or ear, ringworm on
the head, fits or apoplexy, and all injuries to the head or face.

Diseases of & , etc.

324 Sore throat, diphtheria, mumps, quinsy, abscesses in
any part of the throat or neck, scrofula, especially when
located in the neck, tumors, discharge of phlegm or rheums,
inflammation of the throat or falling of the pallette, etc.



l86 - ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Diseases of n , etc.

325 Governs all diseases and accidents or infirmities of the
arms, shoulders or hands, scrofula or impure blood, deranged
imagination, and nervous diseases generally.

Diseases of ®, etc.

326 It signifies imperfections or injuries of the breast,
nipples or stomach, weak digestion and dyspepsia of all kinds,
cosumption or phthisic, all coughs or colds, and what are
termed stomach coughs; dropsical humors, tumors or cancers
of the stomach or breast.

Diseases of Si , etc.

327 All diseases of the ribs, side, back, or heart, such as
palpitation, trembling or pain of the heart, pleurisy, convul-
sions, also violent burning fevers, weakness of the heart, or
as if it were going to stop beating, sore or inflamed eyes, also
plagues, pestilences, yellow fever and yellow jaundice.

Diseases of~[\Jl, etc.

328 Rules all infirmities or weakness of the intestines, such
as worms, wind-colic or obstructions of the bowels, diarrhoea,
dysentery, and injuries to the intestines or abdomen ; it also
rules the womb, and sometimes the generative organs, of
both men and women, when any unfortunate planet is

afflicted in this sign, especially in the 6th house.

Diseases of =^= , etc.

329 Governs the back or kidneys, pain or injury to the
head, or pain of the loins, ulcers or sores, stone or gravel in
the kidneys or bladder, and all weakness or injuries of the
lower part of the back.

Diseases of Tit, etc.

330 Governs all diseases of the generative organs, gravel
or stone in the bladder, ruptures, fistulas or piles, and all

afflictions of the private parts, either men or women ; all un-
natural discharges, such as gonorrhce or leucorrhce, or private
diseases, or injuries of the womb, or spermatic cord; also
pain in the groin, ruptures, etc.

Diseases of $ , etc.

331 Indicate the thighs or hips, and all diseases appertain-
ing to that part of the body. It also rules fistulas, tumors,
and all injuries affecting those parts, such as piles or
hemorrhoids, heated blood, fever, pestilence, falls from
horses, or hurts caused by four-footed beasts ; also injuries
caused by fire, heat, and intemperance, or by any sports,
such as injuries from hunting, riding, etc.



.

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. l2j

Diseases of V3, etc.

332 Governs the knees and all diseases incident to those
parts, either sprains or fractures. Is also denotes leprosy,
itch, and cutaneous complaints, and rheumatism affecting
the lower limbs, especially the knees.

Diseases of ^, etc.

333 Governs all injuries or ailments connected with the
legs or ankles, and all manner of infirmities incident to those
parts, such as swollen feet and ankles, and all weaknesses of
the ankles, also spasmodic and nervous diseases, cramps
caused by wind, etc.

Diseases of X , etc.

334 Rules all diseases of the feet, such as gout and lame-
ness, pain or weakness of the feet, swollen feet, mucous
discharges, itch, blotches and breakings out, boils, ulcers,
proceeding from impure blood ; colds, and disease caused by
living in moist or damp places ; also bowel complaints, caused
by wet, damp or cold feet.

Diseases Caused by the Planets.

Diseases of J$.

335 Uranus rules all sudden diseases, such as sudden
deaths, cramps, fits, etc. , and affects those parts of the body
ruled by the sign that the planet happens to be in at birth ; also,

it generally governs all accidents which befall the native,
especially if that planet happens to be in the ascendant,
midheaven, the 3d or 9th houses at birth.

Diseases of *>

336 All diseases of the bones, complaints, ailments of the
right ear or teeth, fever and ague, all fevers arising from
cold or dampness, leprosy, consumption, jaundice, palsies,
and all weaknesses and trembling; vain fears and fantasies,
dropsy, rheumatism, gout and pains in the bones, apoplexy,
hemorrhoids and ruptures, especially if *> be in T\[ or Si or
in evil aspect to $ .

Diseases of %.

337 All infirmities or obstructions of the liver, pleurisies,
inflammation of the lungs or pneumonia, or tightness of the
chest, bronchitis palpitation and trembling of the heart,
cramps, pains in the spine; all diseases of the veins, also
scrofula or impure state of the blood, or fevers proceeding
from too great an abundance thereof, snch as apoplexy, etc.,

or complaints brought on by too high living or intemperance.



..

1 88 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Diseases of $ .

338 All kinds of fevers, plagues, inflammations, such as
pestilential fevers, burning fevers, carbuncles, all plague
sores, burnings, ringworms, blisters, insanity produced by
rush of blood to the head, tendency to flightiness or high
tempers, jaundice, diarrhoea or dysentery, hemorrhoids
or fistulas, and all diseases of the gall, or of the genital
organs of either men or women, or of the kidneys or bladder,
almost all kinds of breakings out of the skin, and of wounds
caused by sharp instruments, burns, scalds or fire-arms,
small-pox or measles.

Diseases of Q.

339 All infirmities of the eyes, palpitation and trembling
of the heart, nervous prostration, pimples or breaking out of
the face, nervousness, sudden swooning, cramps, diseases of
the mouth, impure breath, catarrh, putrid fevers and fevers
generally, and inflammations of almost all kinds. The O
governs in man the heart and brain, and in woman the
emotional nature, such as hysteria, etc.

Diseases of $ .

340 Venus chiefly rules the kidneys, navel, abdomen, lower
part of the body, and all the unnatural discharges of those
parts, such as gonorrhoea, leucorrhce, etc., and all diseases
arising from inordinate lust, impotency, hernias, diabetes,
dropsy, Bright's disease, or any involuntary discharge of the
urine, etc.

Diseases of £

341 All nervous complaints or giddiness in the head,
vertigo, lethargies, insanity, fligthiness, and all complaints
caused by diseases of the brain, stammering and imperfection
of speech, vain and flighty imagination, and all defects of
memory, hoarseness, dry coughs or great abundance of spittle,

and all sniffling in the nose, gout of the feet, foul or diseased
tongue, and all -imperfectness of the fancy or intellectual
parts ; also mutes or the deaf and dumb, and impediments
of speech.

Diseases of J
342 Diseases of the left side, the bladder or generative

organs, periods of women, dropsy, diarrhoea, and all cold
rheumatic diseases, indigestion produced by taking cold,
weakness or lameness of the feet, worms, injuries to the eyes,
fits of long standing, or what is termed falling sickness;
scrofula, convulsions, abscesses, small-pox, measles, etc.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. lbQ

I have only inserted so much of Medical Astrology as
would enable the student when reading a horoscope to get a
general knowledge of the diseases the native would be liable

to; and also, the diseases he would be liable to die of. The
complaints caused by the aspects of the planets to each other,
and the aspects in the various signs, I defer to the latter part
of this volume, where I treat more fully on medical astrology.

343 In that particular sign or house, the evil planets T
? , $

or IJI, are, in the horoscope, the native is certain in some
part of his life to be afflicted in that part of the body that is

governed by that sign and house, if the sign and house
that the planet is in, agree; for instance, in °p and in the
i st house, then the head is certain to suffer more or less
when the native is taken sick, or during evil aspects, etc. ; or
if in TT£ and the 6th house, then the abdomen and the intes-
tines and lower part of the body is the most affected when
sick. If the planet is afflicted by an evil aspect in the sign
or house by another evil planet, the native may be subject to
that ailment or disease most of his life. But if afflicted by
two evil planets, especially if the planet is in an unfortunate
house (in either the 6th, 8th or 12th house), then it is very
doubtful about the native ever being cured of that complaint.
In my own horoscope, I have & in the sign Capricorn, in the
6th house in to £ in the 10 house, and in c? to the "$) (my
ruling planet) in the 12th house, and also applying to an §
of *> in the 12th, which has caused me to suffer from pain
or rheumatism of the knees most of my life, especially if my
health becomes poor; also to meet with several accidents
to the knees. Had my father and I not understood As-
trology, it is more than probable that the doctors in trying
to cure me of rheumatism of the knees, would have so treated
me that I should have been a cripple and going on crutches
over thirty years ago. Yet in spite of those evil aspects, I

am now as active on my feet as most men of my age.

Rules to Judge the Probable Time of Marriage of the
Native, also the Number of Children.

344 It is very important that the student should learn some
special rules in regard to the time of marriage of the native,
although there are no rules that will hold good in all cases, as
the individual horoscopes vary so much, still, with practice,
it is astonishing how perfect an experienced astrologer can
become in predicting the time of marriage of either a man or
woman from their horoscope.



"

I90 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

345 Claudius Ptolemy gives us one special rule which gen-
erally can be relied upon, that '

is ' when most of the planets
are rising or oriental, they generally produce early marriages.

346 "Most of the planets, occidential or setting, produce
late marriages/' and those rules are generally correct, but
there are a number of aspects of both the Sun and Moon
which causes variation to these rules, in both male and
female horoscopes.

347 When Saturn or Mars are in the 7th house (the house
of marriage), especially if they have evil aspects, marriage
is generally delayed, as they cause treachery and deceit in
the lovers, and this may be one reason why the planets, when
occidental, especially if either Saturn or Mars, produces late
marriages.

348 Jupiter or Venus or both in the 7th house, especially
in good aspects, generally hastens marriage, and causes the
native to have a number of lovers and sweethearts, and he
generally has to marry one to get rid of all the others. It is

especially so in female horoscopes.
349 The Sun in a female's horoscope making an evil aspect

to a retrograde planet, or sometimes making a good aspect
to a retrograde planet, will often delay marriage until near
40 years of age.

350 In a male's horoscope, the Moon making an evil aspect
to a retrograde planet, especially Saturn or Mars, will often
delay marriage, and even cause the native to die an old
bachelor.

351 The Sun in a female's horoscope making an evil aspect
to a retrograde planet, often causes the native to be engaged
a number of times, and each time the marriage is broken off,

which sometimes delays marriage until late in life.

352 But sometimes the Sun in a female's horoscope making
an aspect, either good or evil, to a retrograde planet, she
sometimes marries early in life, especially if these planets are
rising, but she generally separates soon after marriage.

353 The rule which I have generally adopted to find out
the time of marriage, is by looking carefully at the position
of all the planets on the face of the horoscope, and judging
by their positions and aspects as close as possible about what
age the native will marry, and then calculate what particular
fortunate aspect will come near that age, in any particular
year or month, and often the time of marriage can be predic-
ted in that way very correctly.

354 But when a horoscope is particularly evil for marriage,
it is very seldom that they marry under what we call fortun-
ate aspects or directions for marriage; and, therefore, that



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. IQt

rule cannot always be applied, but by practice and experience
the student will generally be able to judge very close to the
time of marriage, and also the number of marriages, by the
above rules and those which have previously been given on
pages 164, 165 and 166.

Children.

355 In judging trie number of children that the native is

likely to have, the student must always see whether there
are fruitful signs on the ascendant, the 5th, 7th or nth houses
the nth house is the house of children, of the husband or
wife.

356 If there are evil planets in either the 5th or nth
house, the native has either few children or else if he
has a large family, most of them die early in life. It gen-
erally indicates a world of trouble causer by children. If

the lord of the 5th house is in the 6th, 8th, 12th or 2d house,
especially if it is an evil planet, it causes unhappiness in some
way with children, or most of them will die.

357 If lord of the 5th house is in a fruitful sign and in a
good house, and in good aspects, then most of the native's
children will live; especially if the sign of the nth house is

a fruitful sign, and lord or lady of the 1 1 th is in a fortunate
house in a fruitful sign ; in that case, sometimes the native
will have 10, 12 or more children, and most of them, if not
all, will live, and be of benefit to the native.

In the horoscopes chat follow, I shall endeavor to point out examples
both in regard to fortunate and unfortunate marriages and the time of
marriage and the number of times of marriage; and also in regard to the

number of children, and whether fortunate or unfortunate with children.

If the student makes a number of observations of horoscopes, he will be
able to apply the rules which I have given in almost any individual horo-
scope that he may meet with. I might have given a number of other
rules, but in doing so, there would be danger of complicating the matter,
instead of making it plainer and easier to be learned.

How to Judge if a Horoscope is Fortunate or Unfortunate.

358 When the student commences to judge a horoscope, it

is often advisable for him to write down all the good aspects
of the planets, Sun and Moon in one column, and all the evil
aspects of the planets, Sun and Moon in another column, and
after comparing them to strike a balance. But he must
give preponderance of influences, either good or evil, to the
surperior planets, and notice particularly whether the evil
planets are lords or ladies of the evil houses, and the good
planets are lords or ladies of fortunate houses, and judge



I92 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

accordingly. By a little experience, he will gradually become
so familiar with horoscopes as to judge at once whether a
horoscope is what is termed a fortunate or an unfortunate
one, and by noticing the following rules he can judge from
what house or direction the good or evil will come.

359 Whenever the fortunate planets are cadent, or under
the earth, and the evil planets are high up in the heavens,
or in angles, you can always judge that the horoscope is

more or less unfortunate, and the native will have a great
many misfortunes to contend with all through life ; but more
especially in his early years.

360 When the fortunate planets are in angles or high up
in the heavens, and the unfortunate planets are cadent, or
under the earth, then you can judge that the native has a
fortunate horoscope, and will be generally successful through
life.

361 When the lord or lady of the ascendant and the Sun
and Moon are high up in the heavens at birth, especially if

they are in good aspect to fortunate planets, and the lord of
the 7th or 12th house are weak and afflicted, then that horo-
scope is a fortunate one, because the native can always over-
come his enemies and triumph in the end.

362 When a horoscope has Jupiter, Venus, or both in the
2d house unafflicted, then the native is generally fortunate,
as they acquire money or this world's goods, or that which
conquers the world.

363 But when Saturn, Mars and Uranus are in the 2d
house, the native is generally unfortunate, because he wastes
his substance and is often in poverty, no matter how intelli-

gent that man may be.

364 If the student notices what houses the afflicting planets
are lords of, he can generally tell the native from what quar-
ter or parties the affliction may come, and by knowing that,
it can often be more or less avoided.

365 For instance, if the affliction comes from the 3d house,
he can avoid having dealings with neighbors or near relations,
also any business which causes him to take short journeys, etc.

366 If from the 9th house, avoid wife's or husband's rela-

tions, and their near neighbors ; also lawsuits and religious
disputes, and long journeys.

367 If from the nth house, then be especially guarded
against false friends.

368 If from the 12th house, avoid as much as possible
making secret enemies, and so on, of the other houses.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. lQJ

369 Also notice what houses the planet is lord of, where
the good influences are, and make the most of them. If

the planet promising the good influence is lord of the
10th house, then advise the native to follow some regular
business indicated by that fortunate planet, or get associated
with governors or prominent people, etc.

370 If lord of the nth house, then friends will benefit.

371 If lord of the 5th house, then either children, specula-
tion or keeping a place of amusement, etc.

372 If lord of the 6th house, then small cattle, servants,
or keeping a boarding-house, etc., and so on of the other
houses.

Mental Abilities.

373 We judge of the native's mental faculties chiefly by
the planet Mercury, and its aspect to the Moon.

374 If Mercury be in its own house, either Gemini or Virgo,
it confers considerable intellect on the native, especially if it

happens to have any aspect to the Moon, even a square or
opposition of the Moon, is better than no aspect.

375 But a sextile or trine aspect of Mercury and the Moon,
if Mercury is in its own house, confers the highest order
of abilities on the native, especially if Mercury be in the
midheaven, the 9th, nth or the ascendant.

376 If Mercury be in Aries, Libra, Sagittary or Aquarius,
it confers considerable ability on the native.

377 If Mercury be in Cancer, Leo, Scorpio, Capricorn or
Pisces, unless it has some good aspect to a fortunate planet,
or has some aspect to the Moon, the native is of very inferior
abilities, and likely to lead a plodding or servile life.

378 If Mercury be in sextile or trine aspect to Jupiter,
Mars, Sun or Venus, it sharpens the intellect very much, and
the native is generally of rather good abilities.

379 When Mercury is in Cancer, Leo, Scorpio, Capricorn
or Pisces and in a cadent house, and no particular aspect to
the Moon, or any of the superior planets, the native is then
only fit for a common, plodding life, and will never amount
to much, unless he should happen to have Jupiter in the
ascendant or high up in the heavens, then he might be helped
by some of his friends or surrounding circumstances.

380 In all horoscopes the student should bear in mind, that
he must look more to the planet Mercury for the native's
mental abilities, than to the Moon or lord of the ascendant.

I shall refer to the derangement of the mind, when I come
to treat of the diseases of the body, in the latter part of the
volume.



194 elements of astrology.

The Temper or the Animal Passions.

381 We judge of the temper or passions of the native chiefly
by the Moon and Mars; Mercury controls the intellectual
nature of man, and the Moon and Mars the animal or
passionate nature.

382 If the Moon is in square or opposition to Mars or
Saturn, the native w:ll then give way to his passions, and is

very likely to be ot a violent temper and may even become
vicious, and often get into misfortunes or even prison by his
bad temper, unless Mercury is very well dignified and in
good aspect.

383 The Moon in square or opposition to the Sun, makes
the native very stubborn and willful, and he will not take
advice, especially if the aspect occurs in fixed signs.

384 The Moon in square or opposition to Uranus, makes
the native erratic, changeable, and generally he does the
right thing at the wrong time, and the wrong thing at the
right time, and thus goes blundering along.

385 The Moon in square or opposition to both Saturn and
Mars, especially from the 8th, 12th or 6th houses, the native
is likely to have serious misfortunes, and meet with a violent
death, or often be sick, or end his days in prison, unless the
good influence of Jupiter, Venus and the Sun intervene.

386 The Moon in sextile or trine aspect to Venus, Jupiter
or the Sun, makes the native benevolent, kind hearted and
affectionate, and is much opposed to causing pain to others,
even to animals .

387 The Moon in good aspect to the Sun or Jupiter,
especially if they are high up in the heavens, or in the
ascendant, makes the native honorable minded, and he cannot
be tempted to do wrong.

388 Jupiter in the 9th, 10th, nth houses or the ascendant,
unless it is afflicted, causes the native to take great pride in
his reputation, and he will not do anything that will endanger
or injure it, in any shape or manner, if he can help it.

Profession and Trade—Riches and Poverty.

389 Claudius Ptolemy tells us in his Tetrabiblos, that a
man's profession or trade is controlled by the planet which
rises the next above the Sun, but that rule has not generally
been verified in my own experience in the practice of
Astrology, still it might have been true two thousand years
ago.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. I95

390 The native's profession or trade is chiefly governed, at
the present day, by his mental abilities and not by the planet
that rises above the Sun.

391 If Mars be well dignified and strong, or in his own
house, especially in the ascendant, 9th, 10th or nth house, or
even the 7 th, the native is likely to excel in, or follow some
kind of mechanical pursuit, or be connected with military
affairs, and is also fond of inventions, and generally wants to
be in a business of his own, and dislikes to be engaged under
others.

392 Mercury strong in its own house or in good aspect to
the Moon, either in the ascendant, 9th, 10th, nth or 7th
house, or even the 5th house, makes the native inclined to
writing and studying, and he either becomes an author, news-
paper editor, or is some way mixed up with writings or
printing; and very often causes the native to be a minister
or lawyer, and he always takes delight in literary pursuit,
and may be a public speaker or politician.

393 Venus well dignified in a horoscope, makes the native
take delight and even excel in such as painting, sculpture or
the fine arts and music, especially if Venus be strong in its

own house, and in good aspect to the Moon, or is in the
ascendant, 2d, 5th, 9th, 10th and nth houses.

394 Jupiter in good aspect to superior planets, and high up
in the heavens, in a horoscope, makes the native inclined to
become religious, or want to hold some political position, or
become a judge, member of the legislature or governor,
especially if Jupiter is either in the ascendant, 2d. 9th, 10th
or nth house. Sometimes Jupiter in the 7th house causes
the native to be very fortunate in political pursuits, as it gen-
erally gives him very powerful friends; but if Jupiter is

afflicted in the 7th house, it sometimes causes him to have
powerful enemies.

395 The Moon strong in either the ascendant, 9th, 10th,
nth, 2d, 3d, 5th or 7th house, generally causes the native
to travel much, and be engaged either on the sea or become
a traveling agent, or be in someway engaged in traveling.

396 The Sun strong in the 9th, nth, midheaven or the
ascendant, causes the native to be very ambitious and perse-
vering, and generally he has other people working under him,
than working himself, and he is generally ambitious to be
a judge, governor, or hold some high position.

397 Saturn strong in a horoscope or the midheaven, causes
the native to be inclined to farming or agricultural pursuits,
unless Mercury is strong, then it causes the native to become



I96 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

very thoughful, quiet and industrious ; although of a plod-
ding nature, he is generally fond of literary pursuits, and is a
plodder in that line.

398 Uranus strong in a horoscope, causes the native to be
very fond of inventions and discoveries; he very seldom
follows any regular employment. When Uranus is strong in
the ascendant, 9th, 10th, nth, 2d or 7th house, he is very
often poor the greater part of his life, yet afterwards may
acquire great wealth by some discovery or invention.

399 In a horoscope where most of the planets are cadent
or weak, the native generally spends most of his life working
for others, or as a menial or servant.

400 When there is no special aspect of the planets, especi-
ally of the superior planets, then the native is generally a
drudge or follows some menial employment.

Business or Profession in which the Native will be Unfortunate.

401 The student in advising the native what particular
employment he ought not to follow, should always look well
to the house in the horoscope that governs that employment
he advises the native not to engage in. For instance, the
native would be unfortunate as a minister, lawyer or sea
captain, or any business connected with long journeys if

there are evil planets in the 9th house, especially if they have
evil aspects, or if the lord of the 9th house is afflicted by a
square or opposition of Saturn or Mars, or indeed of any planet.

402 It is unfortunate for the native to be engaged in any
business connected with the 6th house, if that house is afflic-

ted by evil planets, or its lord is in square or opposition to
other planets. He would, in that case, be unfortunate in
keeping a boarding-house, engaging servants, breeding
smali animals, or being a physician or nurse, etc.

403 If the 5th house is afflicted, the native would be un-
fortunate in all kinds of speculation, theatres, places of
amusements, keeping a hotel, or being an actor or public
speaker.

404 If the 4th house is afflicted, the native would be un-
fortunate in farming, mining, owning property or being a
real estate agent, and his real estate will depreciate or meet
with misfortunes or some kind of bad luck.

405 If the 3d house is afflicted, then he would be unfor-
tunate in taking short journeys, railway traveling, being a
traveling agent, or any business connected with neighbors or
near relations.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. I97

406 If the 2d house is afflicted, the native is more fortunate
working for others than being in business for himself, and is

less liable to meet with serious losses and misfortunes in his
money matters.

407 When the native has Saturn in the midheaven, especi-
ally if it is afflicted by an evil aspect of an evil planet, he is

always unfortunate in business for himself, and is likely
every seven years to fail or break up in business, or at least
to meet with very heavy losses; he is more fortunate
engaged under others, or less liable to meet with heavy
losses

408 The native is unfortunate in any public business or
where he deals much with others, who has evil planets in the
nth house in his horoscope, as his friends are very apt to
prove treacherous, and often swindle him ; but if the native
has fortunate planets in the nth house, especially if they are
in good aspect to the other planets, he will be very successful
in any public business, such as keeping a store, hotel, or any-
thing of that kind, providing the 5th and 6th houses are not
afflicted.

409 The native having evil planets in the 12th house,
especially if they have evil aspects to other planets, his
acquaintances and neighbors will put themselves about to do
him an injury, even if it is no benefit to themselves.

410 Unfortunate planets in the 7 th house, or the lord of
the 7th house afflicted, the native is then unfortunate in any
partnership, and should always avoid partners, if he does not,
he will often come to grief, not from his own misfortune or
bad conduct, but from his partner's misfortunes.

411 It is better to have squares and oppositions of planets
in a horoscope than to have no aspects, as the squares
and oppositions certainly cause the person to have great
energy and perseverance, and makes him determined to over-
come obstacles and difficulties; and sometimes a person
becomes successful with evil planets in the ascendant yet he

;

is generally beset by oppositions most of his life, especially
in his younger years, but he may partly overcome them after
middle age.

412 In any horoscope look well to the Moon before deciding
whether it is a fortunate or unfortunate nativity ; as all the
old authors on Astrology agree in saying, '

' that it is better
for the native to have the lord of the ascendant (or ruling
planet) afflicted than the Moon."



I98 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Profession or Business in which the Native would be Fortunate.

413 Fortunate planets in the ascendant cause the native
to be successful as a superintendent or business manager.
He is generally fortunate in business for himself and rises to
prominence, and becomes quite wealthy. He dislikes work-
ing for others, but he generally brings good fortune to his
employer.

414 Fortunate planets in the second, cause the native to
become quite wealthy, especially if Jupiter and Venus are
there, and they are in good aspect to other planets. He
would succesd as a speculator, banker, money lender or mer-
chant, or in any business which causes him to handle money.

415 Fortunate planets in the third, cause the native to be
very successful in taking short journeys, working on railroads,
stage-coaches, as conductor or motorman ; also fortunate as a
traveling agent or letter carrier, or in any business connected
with short journeys.

416 Fortunate planets in the fourth, make the native for-

tunate in mining, real estate or as a real estate agent, farmer
or in any way connected with lands or fruits of the earth ; he
generally has money left him by the death of his father
or relations, and his estate increases in value, and he generally
becomes wealthy.

417 Fortunate planets in the fifth, cause the native to be
successful with theatres, places of amusement, as an actor
or actress, keeping a hotel or store, stock or produce broker,
and he often derives benefit from his children.

418 Fortunate planets in the sixth, cause the native to be
successful in keeping a boarding-house, hiring servants, or
keeping an intelligence office; he would also be fortunate as
a nurse or physician, or breeding small cattle.

419 Fortunate planets in the seventh, cause the native to
be successful in partnership, or dealing with friends; is often
very successful as a politician, as his friends will assist him ; he
is also fortunate in marriage, or his wife brings him wealth.

420 Fortunate planets in the eighth, cause the native to
be fortunate in the management of wills; as executor or
conveyancer of property; or being engaged as an undertaker.

421 Fortunate planets in the ninth, cause the native to be
successful as a minister, lawyer, embassador, or travelling
agent, sailor, telegraph operator, or taking long journeys on
railroads, or long voyages.

422 Fortunate planets in the tenth, make the native very
successful as a politician; he is likely to rise to -prominence
and become very wealthy ; he is also generally successful in



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.
1 99

business, and should always be engaged in some I asiness of
his own, and never work for others, but, if he did, he would
bring- good fortune to his employer.

423 Fortunate planets in the eleventh, give the native
many friends, and he will be successful dealing with friends
and they often benefit him, and he generally succeeds as a
politician, or in any business in which he deals with the public.

424 Fortunate planets in the twelfth, cause the native to
succeed in anything connected with the mysterious or supe: -

natural, such as a clairvoyant, spiritualist, or as an astrologer,
or in electricity or magnetism ; he generally makes a good
physician.

425 The student ought to take particular notice, whether
the fortunate planets are lords or ladies of good houses or
evil houses, because if the planets are lords or ladies of the
6th, 8th or 12th house, and they are in the ascendant or mid-
heaven, or in other houses that we call good, the native may
receive injuries instead of benefits from the good planets,
even if it is either Jupiter or Venus; but if they are lords or
ladies of good houses, strong and in good aspect, then the
native generally succeeds in any business indicated by the
planets, signs or houses marked in the horoscope.

426 As this is so important a matter, I think I cannot do
better than give a synopsis of the influence of each of the
lords of the 1 2 houses, as they affect each of the 1 2 houses
when posited therein at birth.

The influence of the lord of the first house in each of the
12 houses.

427 The lord of the ascendant in the 1st house denotes long
life, general good health and peace of mind, but if afflicted
there by an evil aspect of an evil planet, or by the lord of
the 6th, 8th or 12th house, it denotes the contrary, or much
unhappiness through life.

428 The lord of the 1st in the 2d house, the native grows
rich by his own industry ; but if weak, retrograde or afflicted
there, it denotes want and poverty.

429 If in the 3d house, the native will be inclined to travel,
and often be unsettled and orenerallv lives with his near rela-
tions ; but if afflicted there, his brethern and kindred will be
very unkind to him and cause him most of his trouble, and
generally be his enemies; he is also unfortunate in short
journeys.

430 If in the 4th house, the native is born to good position
and inheritance from his father or near relations, he is likely
to become very wealthy, but if afflicted there by either lord



200 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

of the nth, 12th, 7th or toth house, he will either die in
prison or become very poor.

431 If in the 5th house, the native will be benefitted by his
children, be successful in speculations ; but if weak or afflicted
by Saturn, Mars or Dragon's Tail, he will have but few
children, or they will die young, and they will cause him
unhappiness, or they will be disobedient, and he will gener-
ally be unfortunate in his speculations and with places of
amusement.

432 If in the 6th house, it denotes sickness to the native,
and he generally lives in a mean and uncomfortable manner,
or often lives in a boarding-house ; but is likely to make a
good physician, or be fortunate in breeding cattle if not
afflicted, but if afflicted there, it denotes short life, and a
great deal of vexation, trouble, sickness and poverty.

433 If in the 7th house, the native loves the company of
women, and goes a great deal in company, and is generally
fortunate or benefitted by marriage, especially if well digni-
fied there ; but if afflicted, his wife or sweetheart will be the
cause of his ruin, and if the sign on the 7th be Scorpio, and
evil planets afflict the 7th house, let him beware of poison;
or his wife, or lovers are likely to put him in prison, and his
partners or wife swindle him.

434 Lord of the 1st in the 8th house, weak or afflicted, the
native is always pensive, meloncholy, and likely to attempt
suicide, or is often in much trouble or sorrow. It generally
causes the native to be of short life, unless the giver of life

is very strong.

435 If in the 9th house, the native is fortunate with clergy-
men, law or long voyages ; he is benefitted by strangers, and
generally travels most of his life, or he may hold some posi-
tion in a foreign country; but if afflicted in the 9th, it denotes
danger of thieves or being shipwrecked ; he is unfortunate in
law matters, or connected with religion, and is likely to be
an infidel or skeptic.

436 If in the 10th honse, the native is born to great honor,
and often arrives at eminence, and is generally successfi:l in
almost all kinds of business; but if afflicted in the 10th, the
wealthy and prominent, also judges will generally injure him,
and he is deprived of his rights, and may gain several for-
tunes, and then be defrauded out of them.

437 If in the nth house, the native will bring his hopes
and expectations to perfection, and generally acquire a great
many friends ; but if afflicted there by evil aspects or is weak
or retrograde, there is but little hope from his friends or
acquaintances, and they often do him much harm.



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 201

438 If the lord of the ascendant be in the 1 2th house, the
native will have many enemies, and likely to be partly the
cause of his own misfortunes ; if it be weak and afflicted there,
then there is great danger of his dying in prison, unless the
lord of the ascendant is in its own sign, in that case hie may
escape imprisonment, but will suffer much sorrow and trouble
through life, chiefly caused by secret enemies.

Lord of the second in the 12 houses.

439 The lord of the second in the 1st house, denotes that
the native will become rich, and easily obtain wealth without
much labor, unless it is very much afflicted in the 1st house,
then he is liable to meet with heavy losses.

440 The lord of the second in the 2d house, the native gets
money by his own skill and industry ; but if afflicted there,
he squanders money, and it easily passes through his fingers,
and he is often threatened with poverty.

441 Lord of the second in the 3d house, the native suffers
losses from his brothers, neighbors or near kindred, especi-
ally if Saturn, Mars or the Dragon's Tail are in the 3d house
but if in good aspect to the lord of the 1st or 3d, then he is

benefitted by his neighbors and relations, and in taking short
journeys.

442 If in the 4th house, it gives the native an estate from
his parents, and he is generally fortunate in dealing in lands,
mines, or being a farmer; when afflicted there, then it

indicates the contrary.

443 If in the 5th house, he receives profit or benefit from
his children; is successful in speculation, keeping a hotel,
being a public speaker or actor, or being connected with
places of amusement; but if afflicted in the 5th house, then
he is unfortunate, both in speculation, children and with
places of amusement, or public speaking.

444 If in the 6th house, the native's servants will rob him,
run away with his goods, his cattle will be unfortunate or
die, and he will suffer loss from his estate ; but if in good
aspect, he may gain a fortune by the practice of medicine,
breeding cattle, keeping a boarding-house, or derive benefit
from his uncles and aunts.

445 If in the 7th house, the native is likely to gain an
estate through his wife or by partnership, by trading or deal-
ing with others; the native's wife or husband may die and
leave them property; but if the lord of the ascendant is

afflicted in the 7th, there is danger of being swindled out of
it, even if left to them.



202 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

446 If in the 8th house, the native is likely to be extrava-
gant, and easily parts with his money, but if in good aspect,
he may gain by death or legacies, especially if the lord of the
8th house is in good aspect to the lord of the second or first.

447 If the lord of the 2d is in the 9th house, he will gain
by merchandise or taking long journeys, or trading in foreign
parts ; he would also be fortunate as a clergyman, dealing in
books, or being connected with science, law or religion; he
is also likely to be benefitted by his wife's kindred ; but if

afflicted in the 9th house, danger of misfortunes and losses
in law and by accidents in long journeys, and of being perse-
cuted, or lose money on account of his religion, science, or
learning.

448 If in the 10th house, the native gains by being em-
ployed by some nobleman, or by a person in high office;
he is also benefitted by his mother or mother's relations, or
his wife's father; if unafflicted in the 10th house, he becomes
very wealthy, but if afflicted, he loses money by law or
jiidges, wealthy people, or his mother's relations.

449 If in the nth house, the native gains considerable by
means of his friends, or by accidental fortune or good luck,
selling or dealing in wheat, or by speculation, or anything
connected with the fruits of the earth, or by yearly rents;
but if afflicted in the nth house, the native is terribly swin-
dled by false friends, who will rob and keep him in poor
circumstances most of his life.

450 If in the 12th house, the native is subject to losses by
thieves, and being swindled by lawyers threatening imprison-
ment, but if in good aspect to fortunate planets, he will gain
by cattle or horses, and will be fortunate in horse-racing, or
in such as inventions, especially with electricity or mesmer-
ism, clairvoyance or astrology; and he may acquire money
by medicine.

Lord of the third in the 12 houses.

451 If the lord of the 3d house is in the ascendant, the
native will be wealthier or better off than his brethren, or
else he has none living, but if he has, they will receive
advantages from him, and he will also be a benefit to his
neighbors, but if the lord of the 3d house is afflicted in the
ascendant, then his neighbors and brethren will cause him a
world of trouble, and he will be unfortunate in traveling on
short journeys.

452 If in the 2d house, the native's brethren. will be at
strife with him, on account of money and property, and he is,



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 2O3

likely to lose heavily by them, especially if it is afflicted in
the 2d house.

453 If in the 3d house, the native's brethren will assist him
he will take a great many short journeys, probably will be
engaged in traveling most of his life ; but if afflicted in the
3d house, he will be in low circumstances, lead a plodding,
careful, industrious life, but often be poor.

454 If in the 4th house, the native's brethren will endeavor
to cheat him out of his parent's estate, especially if the lord
of the 8th house be in the 4th house, but he is likely to accu-
mulate property by traveling or dealing with his neighbors.

455 If in the 5th house, the native's near relations go into
strange countries or emigrate, and he is likely to be happy
with his children, or they will be a benefit to him ; he also
will be fortunate in speculation unless afflicted there.

456 If in the 6th house, the native will live unhappily with
his brethren, and receive injuries and damages by them.

457 If in the 7th house, unafflicted, the native will be
fortunate in partnership, and is likely to speculate, also
travel a great deal, and probably become very wealthy ; but
if afflicted in the 7th house, his neighbors will make much
trouble between him and his wife or his partners, and very
likely to get into law difficulties, or they separate.

458 If in the 8th house, the native is likely to bury all his
brethren, and he will take a journey to avoid trouble and
false accusations.

459 If in the 9th house, the native's brethren will travel
into strange countries, and probably hold some prominent
positions under the government in foreign parts, by being
consuls, etc. ; they are also likely to become lawyers, minis-
ters, or travel a great deal on land or on long voyages.

460 If in the 10th house, the native's brethren will not live
to old age, but some of them are likely to become very promi-
nent; and the native will gain some office under the govern-
ment by means of a long journey.

461 If in the nth house, the native's brethren will be his
friends and be of much advantage to him, and through them
he will be very prosperous and fortunate ; but if afflicted in
the nth house, the native's brethren are likely to make him
much worriment by becoming false friends, and probably will
cost him a great deal of money and possibly sorrow and trouble.

462 If in the 12th house, the native's brethren or neighbors
will be great enemies to him and plan for his downfall, and
very likely he will have to leave his native country on that
account ; he will be unfortunate in traveling.



1

204 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Lord of the fourth in the 12 houses.

463 If the lord of the 4th house be in the ascendant, it

denotes good for the native by tilling of land, farming, hus-
bandry, or connected with buildings, mines, or speculating
in mines, and he will become more eminent than any of his
brethren; but if afflicted in the ascendant, it indicates the
contrary.

464 If in the 2d house, the parent's estate will fall to the
native, especially if the lord of the 5th house be in the 2d
house ; the native will become honorable and buy and sell

houses or lands ; he will also be fortunate in speculation.

465 If in the 3d house, it denotes that the native's father
will suffer damage by the native's brethren, if not imprison-
ment; and if afflicted in the 3d house, the native will have
much trouble with his brothers and sisters and near neighbors,
as they are likely to become his secret enemies.

466 If in the 4th house, it denotes good fortune by ancient
men and things; the native's father will live to be old, and
be of great assistance to him. The native is likely to become
quite wealthy by dealing in lands, mines or houses, etc.

467 If in the 5th house, strong and well aspected, the
native's father will become very wealthy, and the native will
inherit from his father, especially if the lord of the 5th house
is in the second ; also the native will be happy and fortunate
with children, unless it is an evil planet or afflicted.

468 If in the 6th house, the native will be prosperous as a
physician, or breeding small cattle, hireing or engaging ser-
vants, but if afflicted in the 6th house, there is great danger
that the native will not live to old age, or that he will often
suffer from sickness or poor health.

469 If in the 7th house, the native will gain an estate by
his wife, and generally be fortunate with women, also with
partners, or with tilling the land, or with mines or farming;
but if the lord of the 4th house is afflicted in the 7th house,
then the native suffers much on account of his wife, and she
may reduce him to poverty or put him in prison.

470 If in the 8th house, the native's father will not live to
old age ; it also denotes benefit, or the receiving of an estate
by legacies or wills, unless it is afflicted, if so, the contrary.

47 If in the 9th house, it denotes profit to the native by
religious matters, lawsuits, taking long journeys, merchan-
dise or trading in foreign parts ; but if afflicted in the 9th
house, the native is likely to lose his possessions or real estate
from treachery connected with law or corrupt judges.



.

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 205

472 If in the ioth house, the native will gain an estate by-
being employed by the government, or one who stands high
in position, or a person in power, or else by having some
public employment.

473 If in the i ith house, the native will generally be much
respected and benefitted by his neighbors, or persons who
live near him, and is likely to gain some political position on
account of their good will or friendship.

474 If in the 12th house, the native will take long journeys,
caused by crosses and disappointments, or the native's parents
will have to emigrate, and he will suffer misfortunes on that
account, and great danger of the native's father not living to
be old, or die in prison.

Lord of tJic fifth in the 12 houses.

475 If the lord of the 5th house is in a fruitful sign in the
ascendant, unless afflicted, the native will have many chil-
dren; they will also love him and be of advantage to him.
He will also be very fond of speculation, and very likely
to be engaged in some business of that kind, or being an
actor, or in some way connected with places of amusement.
There is danger of his becoming a gambler.

476 If in the 2d house, the native's children will become
well off, especially if there are fortunate planets in the 2d
house, and the native will have comfort in them and rejoice
in their prosperity.

477 If in the 3d house and well dignified, it causes profit
to the native by short journeys, and he is very likely to travel
much.

478 If in the 4th house and well dignified, the native will
inherit an estate from his parents, and he is very likely
to become quite wealthy, and will also be fortunate in
speculations.

479 If in the 5th house, he will delight in music and places
of amusement, and his children will be prosperous; he will
also be very successful as a speculator, or a stock or produce
broker; but if afflicted in the 5th house by evil aspects of
unfortunate planets, it indicates the contrary.

480 If in the 6th house, the native will be prosperous in
dealing in small cattle, or as a physician, boarding-house
keeper, etc., and also he will be of a mild, patient disposi-
tion, and will endure sickness without murmuring or discon-
tent; but there is great danger that his children will suffer
much from sickness, even if they do not all die in infancy.



206 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

481 If in the 7 th house and unafflicted, the native will
live very happily with his wife, but may have some trouble
or vexation caused by his children ; he will also be prosper-
ous in partnership, and very likely to become quite wealthy,
but if afflicted there, he loses by speculation, etc.

482 If in the 8th house, the native is benefitted by legacies
or wills, but his children are likely to die early in life, and
he will have but few children to live, especially if it is afflicted
by the lord of the 8th house.

483 If in the 9th house, the native will have beautiful
children, he will take much pleasure and profit in traveling
and in long journeys; he will also be given to scientific and
political pursuits, and receives advantages from his wife's
relations.

484 If in the 10th house, the native gains honor and respect
from people in high position, and also comfort and happiness
from his mother or his wife's father; he is also likely to be-
come very wealthy on account of being fortunate in specu-
lation, or an estate coming to him from his father.

485 If in the nth house, the native will be fortunate and
enjoy prosperity, but there is great danger that his children
will become his public enemies, or in some way injure him,
especially if vSaturn, Mars or the Dragon's Tail are in the
1 1 th house.

486 If in the 12th house, his children will cause him much
anger and .sorrow, but he will be very fortunate with cattle,

horse-racing and horses ; but if afflicted there, it may get him
into serious trouble on account of gambling or speculation.

Lord of the sixth in the 12 houses.

487 The lord of the 6th house in the ascendant, the native
generally has poor health, and is seldom strong and robust,
especially in his early years; the nature of the sickness is

indicated by the sign on the 6th house, and the planets in the
6th house, and also by its lord He is generally unfortunate
or loses by small cattle or fowls; either they die or are un-
profitable to him ; he is also unfortunate with servants.

488 If in the 2d house, the native will generally be poor,
often going from bad to worse ; if the lord of the 2d house is

retrograde, and in square or opposition to the lord of the 6th
house, so much the worse ; he is also unfortunate in keeping
a boarding-house, as a physician or keeping small animals.
Unless the lord of the 6th house is a fortunate planet, strong
or in good aspect to the other planets, then it is not so evil.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 207

489 If in the 3d house, the native's near relations will
have poor health, and generally die early in life, and he will
suffer sickness and misfortunes himself in traveling on short
journeys, and his neighbors will not be his friends.

490 If in the 4th house, the native's father will be unfor-
tunate and sickly, and often in poor circumstances, and the
native is liable to injure himself by taking improper medicine.

491 If in the 5th house it indicates affliction to the native's
children ; and he is likely to injure his own health by feasting
and inordinate or lustful pleasure; he will also be unfortu-
nate in speculation, or connected with places of amusement,
or keeping a hotel.

492 If in the 6th house it denotes good health to the
native, unless it is much afflicted, and he is generally success-
ful as a physician, keeping boarders or dealing in cattle ; but
if afflicted, it indicates the contrary.

493 If in the 7th house, the native is liable to meet with
injuries from women, and often injures his health and pocket
by them, especially if Mars is in the 7 th house, in square
or opposition to Venus; it sometimes causes the wife to die
shortly after marriage, and shows her to be of low extraction
and to have been in poor circumstances.

494 If in the 8th house, the native is likely to bury both
his enemies and his servants; also, it brings losses and mis-
fortunes with his wife's or partner's money ; if the lord of the
ascendant apply by a square or opposition to the lord of the 6th
house, it denotes death to the native or his mother; neither
of them will live to old age, and the native is likely to com-
mit suicide.

495 If in the 9th house, the native will live unhappily
with his wife's relations and their neighbors, and the wife's
brothers and sisters will be very much opposed to him, and
there is danger that the native will often be sick while travel-
ing on a long journey, and is likely to die when traveling,
especially on a long voyage.

496 If in the 10th house, misfortune, sorrow and affliction
will come to the native's mother, or his wife's father, and
there is great danger that the native will meet with some
serious disaster or be sent to prison, unless the lord of the
10th house is a fortunate planet or in good aspect to fortunate
planets, then he may escape being sent to prison.

497 If in the nth house, the native is likely to be often
despondent and gloomy, and have but little hopes, especially
if the lord of the nth house afflicts the lord of the ascendant;



;

208 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

his friends will generally be of low extraction, and is more
liable to injure him than be of any benefit, and he is likely
to be poor most of his life.

498 If in the 1 2th house, the native will be hated or dis-
liked by many persons, especially by the lower class, yet
without power to injure him very seriously; if in square
or opposition to the lord of the 4th house or ascendant, or
lord of the 8th house, he is very likely to be killed by large
animals or die in prison, or spend most of his life in prison.

Lord of the seventh in the 12 houses.

499 If the lord of the 7 th house is in the ascendant, it

indicates success in the practice of astrology and medicine,
and the native will be beloved by women, and they will be
his friends and assist him in his business; if the lord of
the 7 th house is an evil planet, then it indicates that they
will be his enemies, and often bring him trouble or losses,
especially if the lord of the 4th house afflicts by evil aspect
the lord of the 7th house; it will also cause the native's wife
or husband to be a tyrant, jealous and ill-natured.

500 If in the 2d house, the native will marry for love rather
than for money, and there is great danger that his wife will rot
live to be old, and he may marry several times. The native's
enemies will not live long, or he is likely to be robbed or in
some way swindled by women; if the lord of the 7th house
is an evil planet, he will often be cheated or swindled, if not
robbed.

501 If in the 3d house, the native's near relations will often
be at variance with him, and he cannot get along with them
he is likely to marry some one of his own kindred, and will
live at variance with her relations, and not get along well,
neither with his own relations nor with his neighbors.

502 If in the 4th house, the native is very likely to follow
the profession of his father and be successful in business; he
will marry a virtuous wife, unless the lord of the 7th house
is an evil planet. He is also likely to have some contention
with his relations about his father's estate, especially if the
lord of the 8th house is an evil planet, and afflicted by evil
aspects.

503 If in the 5th house, the native will marry a very young
wife of good behavior, and she is likely to be an actress or
musician, or be in public life; he is likely to receive in-

juries, crosses or unhappiness from his children, or they die
young, especially if the lord of the 7th house is an evil
planet.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 200,

504 If in the 6th house, the native will marry a servant or
person of low extraction, and she is likely to be much beneath
him, or else she will be a menial or have some scandal or
blemish to her reputation; if the lord of the 7th house is

afflicted or an evil planet, he will meet with much unhappi-
ress and trouble on account of servants or employees, or
persons boarding in his house, and it is very unfortunate
for him to be a physician or a breeder of small cattle or fowls,
keeping a boarding-house, etc.

505 If in the 7th house, the native will marry a person of
good family, but she is not likely to love him, and will cause
much unhappiness, strife and contention by reason of other
men, especially if it is an evil planet; but if it is a fortunate
planet and unafflicted, it indicates the contrary, and that he
will live happily with his wife.

506 If in the 8th house, the native will wed a high-born
wealthy wife; he will enjoy her estate, but is likely to have
some trouble or lawsuit connected with a death of some
friend about a legacy; if the lord of the 7th house is an evil
planet, his wife is likely to squander both her own and his
patrimony, and there is great danger that they will come to
poverty through her extravagance.

507 If in the 9th house, it indicates that the native will
marry a stranger or a person coming from abroad, or he
marries while on a long journey ; he is' also likely to suffer
much on account of religious persecutions, but will gain by
his wife's relations, unless the lord of the 7 th house is an
evil planet, then he will have serious trouble with his wife's
relations, lawsuits, religious quarrels, or while on long jour-
neys, caused by thieves, etc.

508 If in the 10th house, the native will marry a very
honorable wife or husband, and will gain an estate by him or
ner, unless the lord of the 7th house is an evil planet, then it

will cause much trouble and strife concerning some honorable
)ffice or employment, and the native's wife (or husband) is

likely to be defrauded of her or his estate, or it will in some
way be squandered.

509 If in the nth house, the native will marry a widow or
widower, who is likely to have children living, but he or she
will live comfortable with their partners, but danger of differ-
ence arises on account of the children, or friends will make
trouble on account of the children, especially if the lord of
the 7th house is an evil planet, and is in evil aspect to the lord
of the 5th house.



210 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

510 If in the 12th house, the native will be in danger of
dying by the hands of his enemies, either by poison or being
killed ; his secret enemies are likely to try and do him much
harm, and cause him much unhappiness, or try and keep him
confined in prison or in an insane asylum ; especially if the lord
of the 7th house is an evil planet. The native's wife or
husband generally suffers by poor health, or is often quite
sick, and he or she will not live to be old.

Lord of the eighth in the 12 houses.

511 If the lord of the 8th house is in the ascendant, it

makes the native gloomy, despondent and melancholy, and
he is likely to be of short life, especially if it is an evil
planet ; but he is likely to be fortunate in legacies or receive
advantage? from his wife's income, especially if the lord of
the 2d house is in good aspect to the lord of the ascendant or
the lord of the 8th house, and the lord of the 8th house is a
fortunate planet.

512 If in the 2d house, the native is likely to receive a
fortune from his wife, or he may recover debts that he little

thought he would ever get, unless the lord of the 8th house
is an evil planet, then his wife will squander his money and
he loses heavily by bad debts, but if it is a good planet,
then he will gain by wills and legacies.

513 If in the 3d house, the native's brothers and sisters
will be very unfortunate and generally of short life; he is

likely to be unfortunate in taking short journeys, and in his
relations with neighbors ; and the native is in danger of being
killed, or in some way injured in traveling.

514 If in the 4th house, it indicates that the native's par-
ents will not live to be old, especially if the lord of the 8th
or nth house is in square or opposition to the lord of the
4th house (the nth house being the 8th from the 4th); as for
the native, he will die in his own home, unless the lord of
the 8th house is in conjunction with the lord of the ascendant
in the 9th house, then he dies in a strange country.

515 If in the 5th house, it indicates that the native will
bury his children or they come to a violent death, and if they
live, they will be very wicked and rebellious, and cause him
a world of trouble.

516 If in the 6th house, the native's servants will be un-
faithful to him, and his small cattle or fowls will not prosper,
but in some way meet with misfortune or die. The native is

verv likely to suffer from poor health, and may die a violent
death or be ill-treated, or he may be poisoned by his physician.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 2 1 1

517 If in the 7th house, it causes the native to marry a
rich wife or husband, or a fortune will come to the native
through his wife (or her husband) unexpectedly ; especially if

the lord of the 8th house is strong and a fortunate planet, or
in good aspect to the lord of the 1st or 2d house, or planets in
the 7th house. But if the lord of the 8th house is an evil
planet and afflicting the 7 th house, the native is likely to marry
several times, and his or her wives or husbands will be of
short life.

518 If in the 8th house it indicates that the native will die
a natural death, and have but little sickness through the
whole course of his life, only he may at times be slightly
threatened with illness; but if the lord of the 8th house is an
evil planet and afflicted by the lord of the 6th or 12th house,
then there is great danger that the native will die a violent
death, or in some way be killed by an accident or secret ene-
mies or servants, especially if the lord of the ascendant or
the giver of life is also afflicted by evil aspects.

5 to. If in the 9th house, it indicates that the native's wife's
(or husband's) relations will deprive him of part of his property,
and that there will be a strife and debate between the native
and them, especially if the lord of the 9th house or
ascendant is in square or opposition to the lord of the 8th
house.

520 If in the 10th house, it denotes a violent death, especi-
ally if the lord of the 10th house is in square or opposition to
the lord of the 8th house, or if the lord of the 8th house is an
evil planet ; in that case, there is danger that the native will
die by the sentence of a judge, especially if the lord of the
8th or 10th house is in square or opposition from fixed signs
to the lord of the ascendant.

521 If in the nth house, the native's friends are short
lived, and he is liable to die before middle age, unless the
giver of life is strong, or the lord of the 1st house is in
sextile or trine to the ascendant.

522 If in the 12th house, the native will be very much
troubled, annoyed and worried by his enemies, and there is

great danger that he will die in prison, unless the lord of the
ascendant is strong or in its own house, or Jupiter or Venus
are in the 1 2th house ; but if the lord of the 8th house is strong
in the 12th house, and afflicting the lord of the ascendant,
then the native is likely to die either in prison or by secret
enemies.



212 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Lord of the ninth in the 12 houses.

523 If the lord of the 9th house is in the ascendant, the
native is likely to be of a religious disposition, also of a
scientific turn of mind and a great traveler ; his wife will be
prudent and very much respected by strangers and her
relations; the native will be fortunate in long voyages or
journeys, unless the lord of the 9th house is an evil planet
and is afflicted by evil aspects, then it denotes the contrary,
and he suffers by his wife's relations.

524 If in the 2d house, the native will gain a fortune by
merchandise or trading in foreign parts; he is also likely to
gain some position as an embassador or consul to some
foreign country, and thus become wealthy and prominent,
unless it is an evil planet and afflicted, then he loses by law,
religion, long journeys and his wife's relations.

525 If in the 3d house, the native is likely to be unsettled,
move from place to place, and he is almost certain to emigrate
to foreign countries, probably on account of his brothers and
sisters or his near relations.

526 If in the 4th house, the native will gain some position
by means of his wife's relations, and will travel on account
of his father or mother's relations, or some money will come
to him from foreign countries, unless the lord of the 9th
house is an evil planet and afflicted.

527 If in the 5th house, the native is likely to have children
born to him by other women than his wife, especially if the
lord of the 5th house is in evil aspect to the lord of the
ascendant, and he may travel or go abroad on that account.
If the lord of the 9th house is in the 5th, and a fortunate planet
and in good aspect, he may acquire a large estate by speculat-
ing in foreign countries, or in some way connected with
foreign goods or stocks.

528 If in the 6th house, the native will marry a servant or
a person in low circumstances, and he will gain by means of
servants or small cattle, especially if the lord of the 2d house
is in sextile or trine aspect to the lord of the 6th house.

529 If in the 7th house, the native will marry a stranger or
a person born in a foreign country, and one who will be very
well educated, and her relations will be kind to her, although
they may often be at strife with the native.

530 If in the 8th house, the native will gain considerable
by traveling or going on long journeys, and his wife will
gain by legacies or wills.



3

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 21

531 If in the 9th house, the native will be religious and
very fond of traveling; he may be successful as a preacher
or lawyer. His dreams will generally come true, unless the
lord of the 9th house is an evil planet, and in evil aspect to
the lord of the ascendant.

532 If in the 10th house, the native will gain honor by long
journeys, and the wife's kindred will honor the native, especi-
ally if the lord of the 9th house is in good aspect to the lord
of the ascendant and is strong; but if the lord of the 9th
house is an evil planet and in evil aspect, then the native will
have a world of trouble with his wife's relations, lawsuits,
religious persecutions, and the ill-will of judges, etc.

533 If in the nth house, the native will suffer on account
of religion and often to his utter undoing, unless the lord of
the nth is in sextile or trine aspect to the lord of the ascend-
ant or to the lord of the 9th house, and, in that case, he is likely
to gain advantage by friends, especially those living abroad in
a foreign country, or he may hold some high position.

534 If in the 12th house, the native will be fortunate in
the first part of his life, but in the middle or declining age,
his enemies are likely to cause him much trouble, especially
if the lord of the 9th house is an evil planet, and in evil aspect
to the lord of the ascendant or the 10th house, then there is

great danger that the native may be in prison most of his life,

or have much suffering on account of lawsuits, or by his
wife's relations.

Lord of the tenth in the 12 houses.

535 If the lord of the 10th house is in the ascendant it

indicates that the native will attain great dignities, especially
if it is a fortunate planet, and in good aspect to the lord of
the 1 st or 2d house; but if an evil planet and has an evil
aspect, though he does rise ever so high, he will fall again,
especially if the lord of the 4th house is in square or opposi-
tion to the Sun or the lord of the 1st or 10th house.

536 If in the 2d house the native will gain an estate or
considerable advantage by gift or office, or from some person
in high position, and he will be esteemed for his wealth.

537 If in the 3d house, the native will have few, if any
brothers or sisters, but he will gain honor and advantage from
his wife's relations, and enjoy it until death; but if the lord
of the 10th house is an evil planet, and has an evil aspect in
the 3d house, his relations will plot against him, and will
endeavor to confine him in prison, or have him sentenced by
a judge.



214 ELEMENTS OF ASTfcOLOGV.

538 If in the 4th house, the native is likely to become a
farmer or real estate agent, and will also be fortunate in
mines and in any business in which he would have to deal in
the fruits of the earth, especially if it is a fortunate planet and
in good aspect to other planets, his property will advance in
value; but if the lord of the 10th house is an evil planet and
afflicted by the lord of the ascendant, 2d or 9th house, then
the native will lose his property by lawsuits, etc.

539 If in the 5th house, the native's children will be sickly
and but few live ; he will be fortunate in marriage and enjoy
the property of his wife, but very likely he will not live long,
as he is liable to injure his health by feasting, pleasure or too
much indulgence and improper living.

540 If in the 6th house, the native is generally poor or in
low circumstances, and leads a plodding or drudging life ; if

the lord of the 10th house is a fortunate planet and in good
aspect to other planets, then he is likely to gain honor and
wealth by the practice of medicine, or discover some medi-
cine by which he will make a fortune.

541 If in the 7th house, the native will gain by lawsuits and
his wife, and acquire credit and reputation by her and her
friends and relations; if the lord of the 10th house is an evil
planet and afflicted in the 7th house, the native's wife or his
partners will bring him sorrow and trouble, there is great
danger that he will lose his credit and reputation, or become
poor.

542 If in the 8th house, the native will, before middle age,
attain wealth and honor by inheritance, wills or legacies ; but
there is danger that his mother will die early in life, especially
if it is an evil planet or afflicted, in that case, he is swindled
out of his legacies, or his wife s or mother's estates.

543 If in the 9th house, the native will be prosperous in
taking long journeys or sea voyages, but is liable to die in
some foreign country ; he will also gain profit by learning or
scientific pursuits, or being a lawyer or judge, or a member
of the legislature, unless it is an evil planet or afflicted, in
that case, he is then unfortunate in all the occupations and
professions mentioned..

544 If in the 10th house, the native will be prosperous in
trade, and likely to become very wealthy and noted on
account of the large business that he will transact, and is

almost certain to hold some high position under the govern-
ment ; but if it is an evil planet, then he loses it again, and
is in danlg^,e^rx ovjf d^i

- i,sjgrace.
t>



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY, 2 i l>

$45 If in the nth house, the native will be honored by his
friends, and he will be very beneficial and helpful to his
acquaintances, and will gain wealth and become prominent
and noted, unless it is an evil planet, then he is unfortunate
with his friends, and they do him harm instead of good.

546 If in the 12th house, the native will be very unfortu-
nate, and will lose his office and dignity by the treachery of
his pretended friends, who will prove to be private enemies
if the lord of the 10th house is afflicted in the 12th house,
great danger that the native wll be sentenced by a judge, or
have to spend many years in prison on account of his politics,
or advocating some unpopular religious dogma, or being a
socialist or anarchist, etc.

Lord of the eleventh in the 12 houses.

547 If the lord of the nth house is in the ascendant it

enables the native to overcome his enemies by means of his
friends and acquaintances, and enables him to gain his hopes
and expectations, and be fortunate in most of his engage-
ments and undertakings; but if the lord of the nth house is

an evil planet or in evil aspects, especially to the lord of the
ascendant, 4th or 10th house, then it produces the contrary,
and his friends prove treacherous and deceitful, and cause
him many losses and misfortunes.

548 If in the 2d house, the native gains riches by his friends
and acquaintances, and he gradually becomes well off, as his
friends will assist him; but if the lord of the nth house is

either Saturn or Mars and they are afflicted, then he loses
money by his friends, who will be constantly borrowing or
getting him to go security, and thus cause his ruin.

549 If in the 3d house and a fortunate planet, then the
native's brothers and sisters and near relations will be very
prosperous and attain prominence, and be of much advantage
to him ; he will also be very successful in his journeys, and
make friends while traveling; but if the lord of the nth
house is an evil planet and afflicted in the 3d house, then his
friends prove treacherous, especially while traveling or
on journeys. He is also likely to be banished on account of
his religion or politics, and meet with accidents and misfor-
tunes while traveling.

550 If in the 4th house, the native's parents will be well
off and have a large estate, but will not live long, especially
if it is an unfortunate planet, but if a fortunate planet, then
the native's estate will increase in value, and his friends
remain with him until his death.



2l6 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

551 If in the 5th house, the native will be happy most of
his life, and enjoy his friends and be prosperous, and he will
also be fortunate with his children; but if the lord of the 1 ith
house is an evil planet and afflicted in the 5th house, then his
friends will rob him, and his children will prove treacherous
and be a misfortune to him, or they die early in life, or in
some way cause him much unhappiness, or he has none born
to him

552 If in the 6th house, the native will have to work nearly
all his life, or be a servant or lead a plodding life; he will
generally have poor health, and he will not live to be old.

553 If in the 7th house, the native will marry a rich and
good wife or husband, and they will live lovingly and happily
together; but he is likely to be poor in his early years, but
becomes well off in middle age; but if the lord of the nth
house is an evil planet and afflicted in the 7th house, then his
pretended friends become his public enemies, and bring him
to ruin and misfortune, and involve him in many lawsuits or
quarrels.

554 If in the 8th house, the native will be unfortunate in
trading, but will gain by wills and legacies; but if it is an
evil planet and afflicted in the 8th house, the native loses
most of his friends by death, or they nearly all die before
him.

555 If in the 9th house, the native will be fortunate most
of his life, and will have good success, and take many long
journeys, and almost certain to hold some high office in a
foreign country, such as embassador, consul, etc. ; but if the
lord of the 1 ith house is an evil planet and afflicted in the 9th
house, then he easily quarrels with his friends and has law-
suits with them, or quarrels on account of religious dogmas,
politics, etc.

556 If in the 10th house, the native will rule and become
very powerful, and will rise to fortune ; his friends will be of
great advantage to him, and he may hold one of the highest
political positions in the land, especially if the lord of the
nth horse is a fortunate planet and in good aspect to the
lord of the ascendant or 2d house; but if it is an evil planet
and afflicted, then his friends turn against him, and help to
bring him to misfortune or ruin.

557 If in the nth house, the native will have many and
very prosperous friends and acquaintances, aud will have a
good reputation; he is likely to be an adviser to a Governor
or President, similar to being one of the cabinet, etc. ; but if

the lord of the nth house is an evil planet and afflicted, he
will afterwards come to disgrace.



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 217

558 If in the 12th house, the native's friends will prove
treacherous, and always be plotting for his ruin, or trying to
put him in prison, and he is likely to injure himself by leading
an improper life, unless the lord of the nth house is a fortu-
nate planet, in that case it will not be quite so evil ; but he
must not expect any good from his friends.

Lord of the twelfth in the 12 houses.

559 If the lord of the 12th house is in the ascendant, the
native will have many enemies, and they will cause him much
perplexity and trouble, especially before middle age or in his
early years, and if the lord of the 12th house is an evil planet
and in evil aspect to other planets, then there is danger that
his enemies will confine him in prison most of his life, and it

will cause him to be poor, gloomy and dispondant up to mid-
dle age, and not well off even in the latter part of his life

but if the lord of the 12th house is a fortunate planet, then
he may avoid being imprisoned, still he will be an unfortu-
nate person and generally poor.

560 If in the 2d house, the native will have a great many
lies reported to injure and damage his reputation, and he
will be envied for his money or property ; the native is likely
to be confined in prison or in an insane asylum so that his
enemies can get his money or property, but if the lord of the
12th house is a fortunate planet and has good aspects, then
he may overcome his enemies, and gradually become well off,

especially after middle age.

561 If in the 3d house, the native will have many crosses,
misfortunes and much unhappiness caused by his brothers
and sisters or near relations, and he will also be unfortunate
in any business that causes him to take short journeys ; and if

it is an evil planet and has evil aspects, his kindred will try
to get him into prison, or they die long before his old a e.

562 If in the 4th house, the native's father will afflict him
and become his enemy, and he will get but little benefit from
his parents, or he and his family will have an unhappy home
in his early life, and he is likely to leave his home before he
becomes of age; his wife's mother will be his enemy, and he
will know what it is to have a mother-in-law, but if the lord of
the 12th house is a fortunate planet, then his father will not
afflict him so much, and he may possibly get along with his
relations, and gradually become well off by hard work.

563 If in the 5th house, the native's children will be very
disobedient, and cause him much sorrow and trouble, and
they are likely to get him into prison ; he will also be very



8

21 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

unfortunate in all kinds of speculation, or his secret enemies
may lead him into speculation in order to ruin him ; but if

the lord of the 12th house is a fortunate planet, then he may
get along- rather comfortably with his children, but they will
still cause him unhappiness, or they die early in life.

564 If in the 6th house, the native will be very unfortu-
nate with servants, small cattle and keeping boarders; he
will also be unfortunate as a physician, and he is likely to
lead a plodding, servile life, and have many hardships to
endure, or he will suffer from poor health. But if it is a for-
tunate planet or in good aspect to fortunate planets, then the
native may succeed in the practice of medicine or keeping a
boarding house or with servants, etc. , but will at times have
trouble with them.

565 If in the 7th house, the native will be very unfortunate
in his relations with women ; they will get him into trouble,
or cause him sorrow or misfortunes ; and his wife will prove
to be his enemy, and very likely get him into prison ; he will
also be very unfortunate in all kinds of partnerships or dealing
with others; his partner will become his enemy and rob him,
unless the lord of the 12th house is a fortunate planet and
has good aspects, then it is not quite so unfortunate.

566 If in the 8th house, the native will see the death of
nearly all or most of his enemies, and his enemies will come
to trouble and misfortune ; he is likely to get an estate by
means of legacies or wills, but with much difficulty ; his wife
is also likely to be cheated out of her money or estate, or he
gets no good from it.

567 If in the 9th house, the native will be troubled and
annoyed by his wife's relations, and they will involve him in
lawsuits and many difficulties; he will also be unfortunate
in taking long journeys, and is likely to suffer much by religi-

ous persecution or the clergy, and religious people are almost
certain to be his enemies, but if the lord of the 1 2th house is

a fortunate planet, then he is likely to be very pious, or what
the people call fanatical or a religious crank, or an advocate
of some new dogma or unpopular theology.

568 If in the 10th house, magistrates or people in high
office will persecute him, and cause the native much trouble
and misfortune ; he is likely to be banished or put in prison
on account of corrupt judges, or his enemies swearing falsely

against him ; if the lord of the 1 2th house is a fortunate planet,

then he may escape most of the above difficulties or mis-
fortunes.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 210,

569 If in the nth house, the native will have only pre-
tended friends, and they will act deceitfully and treacherously
towards him, and very likely become his secret enemies, and
he will be unfortunate in most of his undertakings ; he will
generally be gloomy, despondent and discontented with his
condition in life, especially in the early part of it ; but if the
lord of the 12th house is a fortunate planet, then he may
retain some of his friends, but they will never do him much
good.

570 If the lord of the 12th is in the 12th house, the native
will have many enemies, and they will have much power to
annoy him, and make his life miserable ; he is liable to have
lies or false reports circulated about him to his injury, and
if the lord of the 12th house is an evil planet and in evil
aspect to the lord of the ascendant or 4th house, they will
bring him to ruin, and probably he will end his days in
prison; but if the lord of the 12th house is, a fortunate planet,
then the evil will not be so great, unless it is afflicted by a
square or opposition of an unfortunate planet, and that planet
is either the Moon or lord of the 1st house, then he brings his
misfortunes on himself, and he ends his days in prison.

REMARKS AND EXPLANATION.

On formulating the foregoing rules we sometimes meet with con-
fusion or conflicting testimony on account of most of the planets

being rulers of two houses, and one may be a good house, and the other
evil, but if the lord of a house, say the first house, is alone and not in

any evil aspect to any planet in that house, and not lord of any evil house,
and is not perigrine or very weak, and the said lord is neither Saturn
nor Mars, in that case the foregoing rules will be strictly correct, and
always prove true in their indications of good fortune. But if it is

Saturn or Mars, then it is an indication of evil fortune for anything be-
longing to that house.

For example, when the lord of the ascendant is alone in the second
house, and that lord is neither Saturn nor Mars, and it is not the lord

of any evil house, then the indications of riches for the native by his

industry and ingenuity is almost certain to come true ; but if it is in the
second house, and is strong and well aspected by fortunate planets, who
are lords of good houses; or if Jupiter or Venus, or both are in the 2d,
house unafflicted, then the indications for riches are very marked. But if

the lord of the ascendant is weak in the 2d house, and is in conjunction,
square or opposition to Saturn, Mars or the Dragons tail, or if either of
the unfortunate planets is also lord of an evil house, besides being lord of
the ascendant, and is in the 2d house, especially if lord of the 2d, is in

an evil house and afflicted by unfortunate planets, from evil houses, then
the native will be poor throughout his whole life, and will die in poverty.



220 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

I should here remark that the Sun or Mars in the 2d house, is evil

for saving money, as they are said to burn up the native's money or he
spends it in a lavish and extravagant manner.

When a planet is lord of a good house, and at the same time lord of
an evil one; for instance if it is lord of the luth house, and also lord of
the 6th house, then its influence is modified or weakened a great deal
when in any good house, as the 2d, 10th, or 11th houses.

If Mercury is in the 2d house, and Gemini is in the 6th house, and
Virgo in the 10th, in that case although the native will make money
and be generally successful in business, yet he is likely to lose it again on
account of sickness either for himself, or his family or relations; but if

Mercury receives good aspects in the 2d house, and is lord of the 6th,
and 10th houses, then he would be very successful as a physician or in any
way dealing in medicine as a business, or keeping a boarding house, en-
gaging servants etc., especially if there are fortunate planets in the 6th
or 10th houses.

If the student has studied carefully the last paragraph on page 93 and
continued on page 94, he will have a key to the meaning of many of the
expressions in the foregoing remarks in relation to the " lords of the

12 houses."
For example, the 4th house in the native's horoscope is the first

house or ascendant of the native's father, and the 5th is the father's

house of money ; the 6th is the father's house of brothers and sisters
;

the 7th, is the father's house of property or real estate the 8th,
; is the

father's house of children ; and so on of all the other houses in the

horoscope. The 10th house is the mother's ascendant or 1st house, the

11th, her house of money, the 12th, her house of near relations,

neighbors, journeys, etc.

In paragraph 496 on page 207 where it says "
: If (the lord of the 5th

house is) in the 10th, misfortune, sorrow and affliction will come to the

native's mother or his wife's father, and there is great danger that the native

will meet with some serious disaster, or be sent to prison." The explana-
tion of the above paragraph is that the 10th house, although a good
house for the native, is in this case an evil house for the native's mother
or wife's father, as it is in the 6th house (or the house of sickness,) from
the 5th house, and it is the house of the native's mother and of the

native's wife, (or husband's) father ; and the loth house is also the house
ot judges or magistrates, and being in evil aspect to the 5th house, they
might cause him much trouble. This will serve as an explanation for

other houses of the "lords of the 12 houses," which the student can
study himself.

In a few "
cases of the lords of the houses, I have stated " he or she

or " husband and wife," etc.; but it would be a round about way of ex-
pressing my meaning to have continued that method for all the lords

of the houses ; besides it would have taken too much space.

The student can change the reading for females so as to read " she" for
" he," and " husband " for * wife," and read as if the houses and their

influence had been intended only for females.



ELEMENTS OF ASRTOLOGY. 221

Also in paragraph 527 the student can change the reading altogether,
and read it in this manner for females "

! If the lord of the 9th, is in

the 5th house, the native will have children to other men than her hus-
band, especially if the lord of the 5th house is in evil aspect to the lord
of the ascendant, and she may have to travel or go abroad on that
account."

The astrological explanation is that the 9th house is the 5th house,
{or house of pleasure from the $th house,) and if the lord of the 9th
house, or the 5th house from the 5th, is in the 5th house of the horo-
scope, then there is danger that the man or woman will go abroad, or
go to strangers or persons living at a distance for their pleasure rather
than going to his or her own home for the same end or object.

I think I have made the subject quite plain, but for fear the student
does not fully comprehend the matter I give one more illustration. If

the student turns to paragraph 550 on page 215, where it says: "If
(lord of the 11th) is in the 4th house, the native's parents will be well ofF

and have a large estate, but will not live long, especially if it is an un-
fortunate planet; but if it is a fortunate planet, then the native's estate

will increase in value, and his friends will remain with him until his

death " (as the 4th house is the end of all things.)

The explanation is that the 4th house is the house of the native's

parents, and if the lord of the 11th, which is a fortunate house for the

native, is in the 4th house of the horoscope, it indicates that the parents
will be well ofF ; but at the same time the 1 ith house, is the 8th house,
or the house of death, reckoning from the 4th house, or house of the
parents, also the 4th house, is the 6th, or the house of sickness from the

1 ith, indicating that the parents will either have very poor health, and
not live long, as lord of the 8th, and the 6th, from the 4th house, will

both be afflicting the 4th house, or the house of the parents ; but if it

is a fortunate planet, then they are likely to live long, and also the na-

tive will have many friends, as the 4th house is his home or his property,

an 1 as it is the end of all things, his friends are very likely to remain
by him until his death, and not only that, but his father's friends, or

friends of the family are very likely to continue to be the native's friends,

and a fortunate planet in the 4th house improves the native's prop-
erty, or makes it increase in value.

When the student understands all the various meanings of the houses
as explained in the last paragraph on pages 93 and 94, he will be able

to find out the true meaning of all the lords of the 12 houses, and can
even make rules for himself, or extend the remarks in regard to his own
or his friends horoscopes.

One thing the student should constantly keep in mind is that Sat-
urn and Mars are evil planets, and afflict any part of the horo-
scope, whereever thev are posited, no matter if they are lords of good
houses ; and that Jupiter and Venus are fortunate planets and they
benefit any house in the horoscope, whereever they may be posited,

if not afflicted, even if they are in evil houses, but in these cases they are



222 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

of but slight benefit, and may rot do the native much good, still they
prevent or modify what would otherwise be great harm or serious injury
to him.

(For example, a particular friend of mine, who had in his horoscope
Jupiter, lord of the 7th and 4th houses, in the 8th house, or house of
death, and in square to Mars lord of the 8th, in the 1 ith house ; often
made the remark that Jupiter never did him any good, and he did not
feel any benefit from its directions or transits through good houses, etc

;

but still it did him good in an indirect manner; although he did i.ot

appear to appreciate it. Once he stated that when at a rire in Man-
chester, N. H., he was holding the hose, and in order to get the water
into the building, they had to break the windows, and while standing
there, the whole side of the factory fell outwards, and when the smoke
cleared away, to the surprise of everybody he was found to be uninjured

;

the wall having fallen in such a manner that the window just reached the
place where he stood. He had a number of escapes of death in a sim-
ilar manner. He died a natural death many years afterwards, Jupiter in

the 8th, (or house of death), saved him from a violent death. What
caused him frequently to be in danger of those accidents was that he had
Saturn in his ascendant, and the Moon there also in close square to the
Sun in the midheaven.)

In a horoscope it is always best to have a planet that is lord of a

house in the same house, even if it is not in the same sign that it is lord
of, it makes that planet much stronger, unless it is otherwise afflicted,

even an unfortunate planet, if lord of an evil house, and in the house it

is lord of, makes it much stronger for the native's good in every way. For
example, lord of the 6th house in the 6th, makes the native's health much
stronger, and he is better able to endure sickness, than if the lord of the

6th house, is in any other house than the 6th. Lord of the 8th, house
in the 8th, even if it is an evil planet, unless afflicted, the native is

almost certain to die of old age, and suffer but little sickness, unless the

giver of life or the Moon or lord of the ascendant is much afflicted. But
there is one exception to this rule, and that is the l 2th house, . If lord of
the 12th, house is in the 12th, it is very unfortunate for the native, as it

causes the native's enemies to be very strong and powerful and able to

do him much injury, but if lord of the 12th, is in its own sign and
house, then it makes the native's enemies inclined to be rather generous,

if such an anomaly can occur as a generous secret enemy.
If lord of the 1 1 th, house is in the 1 1 th, it makes the native have very

good friends, and they are likely to be of much benefit to him all through
life. [In my own horoscope I have Taurus on the cusp of the 1 1 th house,

and Venus in EE in the 1 ith house. It has always made me have a large

number of good friends, especially females, but to offset these good in-

fluences, I have Mercury lord of the i2th, in the 10th house, near a

square of the Moon, and also in square to Mars in the 6th, and Saturn,

lord of the 7th house, afflicting the Moon in the 12th house also Mars
;

is lord of the 5th house, and of an intercepted sign in the 10th, and in

square to Mercury in the 10th, and in opposition to the Moon, (my



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 223

ruling planet,) in the I 2th house, which aspects have caused me to have
as many secret enemies as any person in my circumstances, but as Saturn
is weak or in its detriment in Cancer, they have never been able to seri-

ously injure me, but they have caused me a world of trouble and
annoyance.]

There is one more idea that I wish to impress upon the student's

mind, and that is when the lord of a sign is in its own house, even if it is

not in its own sign, it is very strong ; and by counting from that house
it is lord of, it has its own relations, and signification in the horoscope,
the same as if that house was the ascendant of the chart of the heavens.

For instance in paragraph 532, page 213, which says, "
( If the lord

of the 9th) is in the 10th house, the native will gain honor by long
journeys, and the wife's kindred will honor the native, especially if the

lord of the 9th is in good aspect to the lord of the ascendant, and is

strong." The explanation is that the 10th house is the 2d house, or
the house of money, from the 9th house, or house of long journeys, and
the wife's kindred, etc. In the same paragraph it says "

: but if the
lord of the gth house is an evil planet, and in evil aspect, then the native
will have a world of trouble with his wife's relations, law suits, religious

persecutions, or ill will of judges, etc." The explanation is, that an evil

planet afflicting the zd house, or house of money from the 9th, is a very
great affliction connected with travelling, and law suits, or wife's kindred,
etc., as it may cost the native considerable money, if afflicted by an evil

planet, as the 10th house, is a house of great importance in the horo-
scope, and in lawsuits the judge may be very much prejudiced against

the native, as the 10th house is in square to the 1st house of the horo-
scope, and if an evil planet is in the 10th, it afflicts all the more, as it

would also be in square to the ascendant.

The 1 1 th house is the 3rd house from the 9th ; the 1 2th house is the 4th
from the 9th; the ascendant is the 5th house from the 9th, and it being
in trine aspect to the 9th, causes it to be a good house, especially if the

lord of the 9th is a fortunate planet, and in the 1st house ; but the 2d
house is the 6th from the 9th, and it being an evil house, although a

good house in the horoscope, it is an affliction to any business connected
with the 9th house, especially if lord of the 9th is an evil planet, and in

the 2d house ; as the native is very likely to be taken sick or die on a

journey, or probably he may lose considerable money on account of law-
suits or long journeys. And so on of all the other houses in the

horoscope.

Remarks on the Lords of the 12 Houses, and explaining

how they are used in Directions, Transits,

Revolutionary Figures, etc.

571 By becoming well posted as regards the lords of the
different houses in a horoscope, a person can predict how a
particular direction or aspect, either Secondary, Primary or
Transits, etc., will affect the native in different parts of his
life, when those aspects come up, or are completed; for ex-



;

224 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

ample an evil aspect of Saturn, transiting- over an angle, in the
horoscope, or in square, opposition or conjunction of the Sun,
Moon or any of the planets, by knowing what house Saturn
is lord of at birth, or in what house it is posited in the horoscope,
and from what house it afflicts in its transits, the Sun, Moon
or lord of the ascendant, etc. , the student can come very close
to predicting how it will affect the native during the influence
of its transit or evil direction, etc. The same in regard to
good aspects, or directions of Jupiter, Venus, Moon or the
Sun, he can generally tell when he knows what house it is

lord or lady of ; from what quarter or what kind of
person the benefit is likely to come, and can also give a
description of the man or woman who will aid or benefit the
native, etc. , and also in what particular manner it will affect
or benefit him. In the horoscopes which follow, I give
a number of illustrations of the lords of the different
houses, affecting the native by directions, aspects and tran-
sits, and also how to apply them in Revolutions.

Remarks on the Changes in the Personal Appearance
of the Native, in the Different Periods

of His Life.

572 It is very important to give a few additional remarks
as to the personal description of the native. On pages 158, 159
and 160, the student will find rules how to describe the native
by the positions and aspects of the planets at the time of
birth, and in a general way these rules will hold good in almost
all cases, but there are a few exceptions which the student in
his experience will learn. By constant observation the student
will find that some persons are very light complexioned when
young, or have light or yellowish hair, and a fair skin, but as
he approaches maturity, his hair will sometimes change to be
quite dark or almost black, and his skin becomes much darker
also there are instances where the native is very slender in

early life, probably up to 24 years of age, then becomes quite
full built, or stout, etc. I might give a number of other
instances of the native changing in personal appearance in

the different periods of life, and it may be well for the student
to know what is the cause of the various changes of the build
and complexion of the native.

Rules for Judging of the Changes of the Build and
Complexion of the Native.

573 First, if the student observes very closely he will find

that when there is a stout sign on the ascendant, and the lord

of the ascendant is a slender sign, and especially if the Moon



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 225

is also in a slender sign, then the native will be slender in
early life, or until he gets to be a man, and afterwards he
will become of the nature of the ascendant, that is stout,
or full built.

574 Second: If the lord of the ascendant, is in a light sign
at birth, and particularly if the Moon is also in a light sign,
and the sign on the ascendant is a dark sign, then the native
is quite light complexioned when young, with light or flaxen
hair, but as he grows older the influence of the sign on the
ascendant has its effect on the native, and he becomes dark
complexioned, and his hair gradually becomes darker as he
he comes to maturity.

575 Third : If a slender sign is on the ascendant, and the lord
of the ascendant is in a stout sign, especially if the Moon is

in a stout sign, then the native is full built in early life, and
becomes slender as he arrives at maturity ; and if the Moon
is in a stout sign he becomes stout after middle age or over
40 years old.

576 Fourth : If a light sign is on the ascendant, and the lord
of the ascendant is in a dark sign, particularly if the Moon is

also in a dark sign, then the native is slightly dark com-
plexioned when young, and he becomes lighter as he grows
to maturity, but in these cases the hair does not change as
much as it does when he has light hair when young, and it

becomes darker, on account of havng a dark sign on the
ascendant.

577 Fifth : If Jupiter has much influence over the native in a
horoscope, and he is slender when young, then he begins to
fill out, or becomes stouter, when Jupiter performs its second
revolution around the heavens, that is when the native is 24
years of age ; but if Saturn has any influence in the natives
personal description, then he generally begins to get stout
when he gets to be 36 years of age, or when Jupiter has per-
formed its third revolution, but if Saturn has much influence
in a natives personal description, then he does not begin to
grow stout until Jupiter forms his fourth revolution round
the heavens, that is from 45 to 48 years of age.

578 Sixth: When there is a slender sign on the ascendant,
and the lord of the ascendant, of the Moon are in stout signs,
and particularly if they are in fixed signs, the native then
sometimes will be slender when young, and become full built
when he comes to maturity, and he grows slender again as
he gets older, especially if Mars or the Sun is in the ascendant,
or has any special aspect to the lord of the ascendant or the
Moon, as the Sun and Mars dry up the watery humors of
the system, as the native declines in life. This remark is



226 ELEMENTS OP ASTROLOGY.

especially true if the lord of the ascendant or the Moon
are in fixed signs. As for example Queen Victoria has
Gemini on the ascendant, a slender sign, and the Sun and the
Moon in the ascendant, but she has Mercury lord of the as-
cendant in the 12th house in a fixed and stout sign (Taurus.)
She was slender when young, but afterwards became quite
full built, but if she lives by this coming winter and through
the year 1898, she will become more slender, as the Sun in
the ascendant will dry up the watery humors of her system.
She would have become slender years ago, if the Moon had
not also been in the ascendant with the Snn, as the Moon is

a watery planet, and tends to keep her of a phlegmatic
nature.

579 Seventh: When a person is born under the planet
Mars, especially a man, he will sometimes have quite dark
hair and his beard or mustache will be quite light, sandy or
yellowish. Whenever the student sees a person with dark
hair, and light beard, he can always depend on it that Mars
has something to do with his personal appearance, as no
other planet produces the same effect. The Sun will some-
times cause a man's beard or mustache to be lighter than his
hair, but not to the same extent that Mars does.

#

The Planets Impress Distinct Characteristics or Marks on the

Native, wJiicJi can be Recognized as follows:

580 Eighth: A Mars person is always straight and proud
in his walk, and stamps his heels on the ground when walking
and is also fond of dress and decoration and military display.

581 Ninth : A Jupiter person is known by having a prom-
inent nose, and full eyes, rather large forehead ; hair receding
from the temples, etc.

582 Tenth : A Venus person is known by having a dimple
in the cheek or chin, and generally has light soft expressive
eyes, and soft brown hair and delicate skin.

583 Eleventh: A Sun person is known by having a full

face, proud walk, and appears to be a person of consequence.

584 Twelfth : A Moon person is known by being mild and
gentle, and is rather light complexioned and slightly full

built.

585 Thirteenth: A Saturn person is known by being slow
and deliberate in his actions and motions, and generally has
some defect either in his walk, build, or personal appearance.

586 Fourteenth : A Mercury person is generally slender,

talkative and active, and always wants to be doing some-
thing.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 227

587 The seven planets not only govern the outward per-
sonal appearance, build, complexion, temperament, etc.,

of the native, but there are certain distinct parts of the
human system which certain planets rule or have special

government of, and which it is well for the student to learn,

in addition to those rules mentioned on pages 187 and 188, and
to remember them, as it will be useful to him in finding out
what special disease or ailment, also what particular parts of
the body will be affected or the native will suffer the most
from, and also what he will die off.

The Seven Planets Rule the Human System,
Named in the Following Order.

588 ^ Governs the spleen, the right ear, bones, teeth, and
retentive faculty, throughout the whole body.

589 li Rules the lungs, liver, ribs, sides, veins, blood and
digestive functions.

590 $ Rules the gall, left ear, the taste, the face and the
testicles.

591 The O rules the heart and back, also the right eye of
a man and the left eye of a woman.

592 $ Rules the womb, and organs of generation, the
kidneys, the throat, women's breast, milk and semen.

593 £ Governs the tongue, brain, rational faculties, im.
agination, hands, feet, and other moving parts of the body.

594 The ^ rules in the body, the bowels, bladder, the
right eye of a woman, and the left eye of a man.

595 The reason I have inserted this synopsis of the in-
fluence of the planets on the personal appearance, build,
complexion, temperament and their various effects, and also
the influence of the seven planets on the different parts of
the human system, in this part of the Elements of Astrology,
is, that in trying to find out the time of day that a person is
born, by looking at the gentleman or lady you can often
detect at once under what planet he or she was born under,
before asking them any questions, and by changing the
horoscope around so as to get different signs on the ascen-
dant, you can often come very close to the hour a»nd minute
of birth. Then by asking several questions in regard to their
ailments or what they suffer from most, whenever they are
taken sick, and then noticing what planet afflicts that particu-
lar planet which rules that special ailment or disease and from
what sign or house it afflicts, you can often get at the exact time
of birth. For instance, if a person suffers most from rheu-



228 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

matism, especially of the bones, or neuralgia of the teeth,
and is inclined to constipation, it is very probable that he is
either born under Saturn or has Saturn in some way aspect-
ing the ascendant, or in evil aspect to the lord of the
ascendant or the Moon.

596 The same if a person is born under Jupiter, he gen-
erally has some defect in the lungs, or digestive organs, or
bad circulation.

597 A Mars person is apt to have some breaking out on
the face or skin, or pain in the left ear, or weakness of the
generative organs.

598 A Sun person suffers from some weakness of the back,
or heart, and if it is a man you can ask him whether he has
any defect of the right eye, but if it is a woman the left eye
is defective.

599 A Venus person suffers from the lower parts of the
body, kidneys or throat.

600 A Mercury person is more apt to suffer from headache,
or some affection of the head or nerves.

601 A Moon person suffers from the bowels, and if a
woman you can ask her if there is any defect in the right
eye, but if a man the left eye is defective.

602 By asking a number of questions that way, the student
can generally find out the planet that they are born under,
and also come very close to the correct time of birth.

603 In my extensive practice of astrology, I have made a
number of other observations of a similar nature to the
above, but I am afraid that if I had to put the result of all

my experience on paper, it would become too complicated,
and too tedious and confusing for the student to easily grasp,
and make use of. But if the student continues to make
constant observations himself, he will be able to notice a
number of similar anomalies of planetary influence which he
may use as guides in correcting and reading other horoscopes.

how to find the tlme of day a person is born,
also how to Correct the Time of Birth.

604 It is advisable for the student never to attempt to find

out the time of a person's birth, without seeing him, because
a verbal or written description of the native is very often
incorrect, but if he has the native himself to look at, he can
judge much better what sign and planet he was born under.
The student must notice first, the person's height, build, com-
plexion, color of hair, eyes, etc. , and try and find out what sign
to place on the ascendant, or the sign which will come nearest
describing him ; then notice what particular sign the lord of



ELEMENTS OF ASR.TOLOGY. 229

the ascendant is in, and whether it will describe a person simi-
lar to the native, also notice the Moon and what sign it is in, and
the kind of person it will describe in that sign ; afterwards
notice the aspects, both of the lord of the ascendant and the
Moon ; and by changing the different signs on the ascendant,
until the student comes to the one nearest answering to the
personal description of the native. Then he must ask the
native a number of questions in regard, to the various events
of his life, etc., and if he will not answer these questions
then in that case do not bother any further with him. If

you can get a direction of a square or opposition of Saturn,
Mars or the Sun to the degree and minute on the ascendant,
and reckoning a degree for a year in time, and can learn
from the native what particular accident, sickness or misfor-
tune befell him at any special time or year of his life, the
student can generally find the right degree of the sign on the
ascendant at the time of birth. But he must also notice the
aspects of Saturn, Mars or the Sun and planets in the 4th
house, to find out any particular sickness, accident or misfor-
tune to the father; the same to the 10th house, or to the
Moon and Venus, to find out any particular accident, sickness
or misfortune to the mother, and when these aspects come
up they generally produce some misfortune, sickness or
death to the father or mother ; and by noticing a number
of these things, and should they all correspond and prove
true, and the native admits it, then the student can set it

down as a fact, that he has got very close to the time of the
native's birth.

605 Notice also if there is an evil planet in the ascendant,
and whether the planet is low down in the ascendant, or high
up, or near the degree ascending, and also notice whether
the native has any mark, mole, scar or blemish on the head
or face, and see whether the mark or blemish on the head, is

high up in the face, near the middle of the face or low down
on the face, or on the neck* If the mark or blemish is high
up on the face, or on the head, then the evil planet is near
the degree or a little above the degree rising; if it is near the
middle of the face, then the evil planet is lower down in
the ascendant, but if on the lower part of the face or on the
neck, then it is low down in the ascendant, or near the
second house.

606 If the native has an evil planet in the ascendant,
notice whether any other planet is applying to a conjunction,
square or opposition to that planet, and notice how many
degrees it is from the aspect ; then find out from the native
what particular year or time of life the native has received an



23O ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

injury or blemish to the face or head, or had any serious ill-

ness, and by reckoning for each degree it has to go to complete
the square, opposition or conjunction, one year of the
native's life ; the student can come very close to the hour and
minute of the time of birth.

607 If an evil planet is rising, and the native has no mark
or scar on the face, head or neck, then the student can set it

down as a fact that the planet had risen above the ascendant
before the native was born, but in such cases, the na-
tive has generally to suffer sickness or some accident when
the planet comes to a conjunction of the degree of the ascend-
ant by direction, and by reckoning a degree to complete the
conjunction to the ascending degree for each year of the
native's life, the student can come very close to the exact
time the native was born

608 The same rule applies to the evil planets, either in
square or opposition to the ascendant, and by roticing how
many degrees the planet has to go to complete the square or
opposition to the degree on the ascendant, and by reckoning
a degree of longitude for a year of the native's life, the
student can often come very close to the time of birth, by
these aspects, even if there is no planet in the native's
ascendant.

609 There are other parts of the body, and limbs, besides
the head and face, where they may have injuries, marks,
moles or blemishes, which we can often make use of in cor-
recting the time of birth. For instance, a person having the
sign Pisces on the ascendant, will often have some weakness,
or injury, or mole on one or both of his feet, especially if

Saturn, Mars or Uranus are in that sign, or in evil aspect to
a planet in *

it.

610 The same remarks apply to all the other signs being
on the ascendant, or even the lord of the ascendant, being in
the various signs of the Zodiac.

611 A person having Capricorn on the ascendant, generally
has some weakness of the knees, or is very liable to rheumatism
of those parts, especially if the planet Saturn is afflicted, and

* Judge Kenny who was Governor of Utah, "Whenever he came to Washington on official

business of the territory, he would take a trip to New York to have a talk with me on
astrology. He used to tell his friends in Washington, D. C, that there was no astrologer in these
nortiierii or eastern states that he could have a talk with, except Dr. Broughton. On one of his
visits to New York he gave an account o» being in a large hotel in Salt Lake City where there
was an astrologer who was looking at the horoscope of a man's time of birth, and who was
also present : the astrologer told the gentleman that he had a mole on a particular part of his foot,

and the man emphaticallv denied it, so much so. that lie bet a heavy wager, that he had 110 such
mark or 7nole. After the wager was laid the man took off his boot and stocking in the parlor of
the hotel, and fo\ind the mole, which he had never previously noticed, simplv because his at-

tention had never been directed to it, but the heavenly bodies and the laws of nature had been
directed to it, and impressed it there, and the astrologer knew that it was an impossibility for that
man to have been born with that peculiar configuration of the heavenly bodies, without that mole
being impressed on that particular spot of his foot.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. • 2 3 1

if he has an evil planet in Capricorn, then he has a mole or
mark on one of the knees; we can often make use of these
weaknesses, moles or marks on the different parts of the body,
in correcting' the time of birth.

612 When I come to treat on Medical Astrology, I shall
enter more fully into these marks, scars, moles, etc. , of differ-

ent parts of the body; but I only refer to them in this place
in order to make use of them in correcting the time of birth.

613 When a person applies to me to have their horoscope
read, and they do not know their exact time of birth, I gen-
erally calculate a chart of the heavens for noon, for the year
and the day of the month the native was born, and notice par-
ticularly all the signs and aspects, and positions of the
planets at that time, and then change it around from one
position to another, and at the same time keep looking at the
native, until I gradually come to the supposed time of birth,
and when I think I have come near the right time, then I

calculate another chart of the heavens for that supposed time,
and see how the marks, scars, moles, etc., agree, and all the
events of the native's life; also his personal appearance must
correspond with it; but it is almost impossible to find the
hour and minute of birth by the various events of life, such
as sickness, accidents, marriage, death of father or mother,
etc., unless the native has some particular mark, scar, or in-

jury as a guide, or he is particularly tall, short, stout, thin, or
there is something marked in his personal appearance.

Table of Essential Dignities and Various other Tables and Infor-

mation, which is Advisable for the Student to Know and
Understand, even if he does not Commit Them

all to Memory, before he Com-
mences Reading Horoscopes.

In order as far as possible to avoid any repetition of anything pub-
lished in the first part of this volume, I refer the student to the Rudiments
of the Science of Astrology on pages 87 and 88 for the inspection of a

blank chart, showing the various positions of the houses of the heavens
and their different numbers. I also refer to pages 89, 90, 91, 92 and 93
for the signification of the 12 houses, their natures, qualities and de-
scriptions.

We here commence with the Signs and Symbols of the Planets.

Planets and their Symbols.

Neptune, Uranus, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury, Moon



232 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

I refer the student to pages 60, 61, 62, 63, 64 and 65 for the histor-

ical account of the planets, Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus, affecting the

earth and its inhabitants ; and to pages 66, 6y and 68 for the influncee

of the near approach of Mars to our Globe, and its influence on the

earth and its inhabitants; and on pages 69, 70 and 7] for the influence

of the planet Uranus on the United States, while transiting through the

sign Gemini; and on pages 74, 75, 76, jy and 78 for the influence of
Neptune on the earth and its inhabitants, while transiting through the
sign Gemini ; and on page 79 for the influence of the planets on Ireland,

while transiting through the sign Taurus; and on pages 99, 100, 101,
102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, ill, 112, 113, 114,
115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120 and 121 for an account of persons de-
scribed by the eight planets in the signs of the Zodiac ; and on the com-
mencement of page 122 to the end of page 141 for the effect o the
eight planets on the native, when they form the conjunction, sextile,

trine, square or opposition in his horoscope or in Horoary Astrology.
Further on the student will find mention made of the planets being in

their own sign or house, exaltations, triplicities, and in their terms,
faces, detriment and fall ; also mention will be made of the various
planets being in what is called their joy or highest dignities ; and an
explanation of the effect or influence of these various essential dignities

on the native when they occur in his horoscope.

On pages 185, 186, 187 and 188 is given the various diseases which
each or the eight planets govern, and which effect the native.

The Signs of the Zodiac and their Classification.

The signs of the Zodiac, and their symbols are as follows :

Northern Signs, are :

T « n ® 9> m
Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, and Virgo.

They are opposite the Southern signs, which are :

Libra, Scorpio, Sagittary, Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces.

The first six are called Northern Signs, because they decline from the

Equinox towards the North Pole.

The second six are called Southern Signs, as they decline from the

Equinox to the South Pole.

On pages 97, 98 is given the general appearance of persons de-
scribed by the 12 signs of the Zodiac, and on pages 185, 186 and 187
is given the various diseases which are ruled by the 12 signs of the

Zodiac ; but there are several other matters connected with the signs of
the Zodiac which ought to be further explained, and which the student
should, as far as possible, commit to memory, and especially that

part calle^Essential Dignities of the Planets, when they are in certain

signs and degrees which it is advisable for the student to know.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 233

The Division of the 12 Signs of the Zodiac.

These signs are divided into Fixed, Moveable and Common signs.

Fixed signs are : 8, ft, 1U and ffff.

Moveable signs are : T, £p, =£= and V3.
Common signs are: n, TTJZ, $ and X-
The Fixed signs are called such partly on account of the position of

the Sun, as each year when t enters each of these signs, the weather

is said to be more fixed, and not so changeable. For instance when the

Sun enters Aries, a moveable sign, the climate or condition of the

weather changes, but having got one whole sign into that season

or quarter of the year, or over the change, the weather becomes fixed

or more settled. So when a number of planets are in fixed signs,

or the Sun or Moon are in fixed signs, and there are fixed signs

on the angles of the horoscopes, then any business commenced at

these times is likely to last or endure ; also if a person is taken
sick with the planets in a fixed sign, or fixed signs are on the angles,

that sickness will not be easilv removed or cured. Also, if a person is

born with fixed signs on the angles in their horoscope or a number of
the superior planets are in fixed signs, they are more stubborn and de-
termined in their nature and disposition, than if they were born with
moveable signs on the angles, and their planets also in a moveable sign.

As an example, Gen. Grant had Taurus, a fixed sign, on his ascendant,
and three of the superior planets, Saturn, Sun and Jupiter, all in that
sign in the ascendant, and he had the planet Mars also in a fixed sign.

Mrs. Grant once said "
: The General is a very stubborn man,"

and his saying which became famous, " that he would fight it out
on that line, if it takes all summer," was very characteristic of a

man who had fixed signs on the ascendant, and so many planets also in

fixed signs.

Gen. Washington had Taurus, a fixed sign on the ascendant, in his

horoscope, and he also had Mars setting in Scorpio, another fixed sign,

but Venus, his ruling planet, was in the sign Aries, a moveable sign, and
he did not " fight it out on that line if it took all summer," but
often retreated ?nd adopted other lines of attacking his enemies.
A person born with moveable signs on the ascendant, or their planets

in moveable signs, or any business commenced under moveable signs,

especially if they are on the angles, is likely to change or vascillate the same
as the weather in Spring, Fall, and the Tropics. Common signs are
between the two, that is neither moveable nor fixed, and any business
commenced under them is neither fixed nor is it easily changed.

These signs are also divided into Human Signs, which are : LT, TTQ.,

=0= and $ , (the first part of which is human shape).
Persons born with these signs on the ascendant, or most of their

planets in these signs, are likely to be humane, kind and good natured in

their disposition and temper.
Persons born with their planets in Bestial signs which are T, 8,

ft, $ (the latter part,) and Y3, are likely to be more or less Bestial



.

234 ELEMENTS OF ASTR.OEOGY.

or coarse in their manners or take after animals which these signs die
named after, if they are born with any of these signs on the ascendant,
or their planets in these signs.

Double Bodied signs are n X and the first part of ^ .

Persons born with these signs on the ascendant, or on the 7th house,
or their planets or the Moon in these signs, are likely to marry more
than once and also liable to have twins.

Fruitful signs are £d, V\ and X.
Persons born with these signs on the ascendant, or on the 5th or 1 lth

houses, are likely to have a number of children or be what they call

fruitful in regard to children.
Barren signs are n Si and "TTJi-

Persons born with these signs on the ascendant, or on the 5th house,
or the Moon or lord of the ascendant in one of these signs, have very
few children, if any. For example, Gen. Washington had Leo on his

5th house, which caused him to have no children.

Signs of Voice are n , T1J2, =£= £ and £Z
Persons born with these signs on the ascendant or their Moon or lord

of the ascendant in any of these signs, are likely to be talkative, have
good language and make good speakers.

Mute signs or signs without Voice are £3, TT[ and X-
Persons born with these signs on the ascendant, or their Moon or lord

of the ascendant in these signs are not good speakers, they hesitate when
talking, and seldom make good orators.

Cardinal signs are °p
, g£, =Cb and Y3.

Persons born with these signs on the ascendant, or have many planets

in any of these signs, become prominent or noted, or they are likely in

some way to make a name in the world. They are called Cardinal because
the season of the year changes when the Sun enters any of those signs.

Equinoctial signs are °P and=£= .

The Equinox occurs when the Sun enters either of those signs.

The 12 signs of the Zodiac are also divided into masculine and
feminine. The Masculine signs are every other sign, viz : °P , U, Si,

=Q=, £ , and %?.
Persons born with any one of these signs on the ascendant are more

Masculine and manly than if born under feminine sign ; even females
have a more masculine tendency when born under them.

Feminine signs are 8, 03, T1JJ, T\[, \3 and X.
Persons born with anv of these signs on the ascendant or the Moon or

lord of the ascendant in any ofthese signs are generally feminine ; they do
not care to fight the world, and are more quiet and easy in their manners.

Triplicities or Trigo/ts.

These signs are also divided into Eastern or Fiery signs, called the

Fiery Triplicities or Trigons, which are T, Si and f .

These signs are called hot and dry. That is any person born under
any of those signs, or if they are on the ascendant, or the Moon or lord

of the ascendant, is in any of them, when they are taken sick, their



.

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOCY. 235

illness is of a hot and dry nature ; when well they are generally of a warm
tendency and of a quick temper, and inclined to be of a dry nature;

that is they do not retain much watery humor in their system.

Southern or Earthy signs or Triplicty are tf , TlJi. and Y3-

They are cold and dry. Persons born with any of these signs on the

ascendant, or if lord of the ascendant, or the Moon is in any of the?*

signs are more of a cold and dry nature; they seldom are afflicted

with hot or burning fevers, but their diseases are generally of a cold kind.

Western or Airy signs or Triplicity are n , =2= and £?.
Thev are said to be warm and moist. Persons born under any of

these signs are generally of a rather warm and moist tendency, and they
are generally kind hearted and inclined to be effeminate.

Northern or Watery signs or Triplicity are ®, TT[ and X-
They are cold and moist. Persons born with any of these signs on

the ascendant, or the Moon or lord of the ascendant posited in any of
them, are likely to be cold and of a moist tendency, and their complaints
whenever sick are of that nature.

The signs are also divided into Dry and Moist.
Dry signs are T, « , Si, TTJ2, £ and V3.
Moist signs are n, £p, =£=, T\[, »? and X-
These signs are also divided into signs of long and short ascension.

Long x^scension signs are £p, Si, TT£, =s=, Til, and $ .

Short Ascension signs are V3, <%?> X T, b and n
Any aspects from any sign of Long Ascension are likely to be

longer before they are felt, but any aspects in signs of Short Ascension
their influences are more quickly felt.*

The signs are also divided among the planets in the following order,

and these planets that are on the line with the signs, are said to be lord

or lady of the signs or houses, and are said to rule the signs they are

lords or ladies of whether they are posited in them or not.

Y3 ^ £7
t U X
t s m
n s ttjz

a o
Besides the planets being lords or ladies of the houses or certain signs,

there are other signs in which a planet is said to receive its exaltation

jr be almost as strong as being in its own house, and even retains the

* William Lilly and a number of other old Astrologers, state in their works on astrology, that a
square aspect in signs of long ascension is equal to a trine aspect; and a trine formed in signs of
short ascension is equivolent to a square aspect, in their influence on the native or iu Horary
Astrology. I believe all modern Astrologers have given up that theory entirely, and that a square
aspect is a square, and a trine aspect is a trine, no matter whether they occur in signs of long or
short ascension.

In making calculations to find when anv Primary Direction will be complete in a horoscope :

reckoning a year for the degree in signs of short ascension, the event occurs about a month less
than one year : but in signs of long ascension it is about a month over a year when the event takes
place, reckoning a degree for a year in the native's life.



236 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

influence of that sign that it has its exaltation in, whether it be posited
in that sign or not.

The signs are also divided into what is termed triplicities or trigons
which have been mentioned, and which are also called Fiery, Eearthy,
Airy and Watery signs on pages 234 and 23^. Particular planns are
said to rule or control these triplicities. The Sun and Jupiter rule the
fiery triplicity

; Venus and the Moon rule the Earthy triplicity ; Saturn
and Mercury rule the Airy triplicity, and Mars rules the Watery
triplicity. * Also particular parts or divisions of the signs, are ruled by
certain planets called the terms. Jupiter rules the 6 first degrees of
Aries; Venus from 6 to 14; Mercury from 14 to 21 ; Mars from 21 to

26, and Saturn from 26 to 30. Also the sjgns are divided into three
equal parts, and certain planets said to rule these divisions which are

called the Faces. Mars rules the first 10 degrees of Aries; the Sun from
10 to 20 degrees, and Venus from 20 to 30 degrees. Venus on account
of being in its own house in Libra, is said to be in its detriment in the
sign opposite, which is Aries, or it is very weak in that sign. Saturn
receives its exaltation in the sign Libra, and its fall in the sign Aries, and
in that sign Saturn is very weak, and so on of all the other planets

which can be noticed and learned in the table on the opposite page.

Explanation of the Table.
Every planet has two signs for its houses, except the Sun and Moon

;

they have but one each. £ has °f and TT[
; $ Venus has b and =£=

;

g has II and TTTJ.
; U has 4 and X, and T

<> has Y3 and XX. The
planets have their exaltations, as the third column points out : thus O
in 19 T; ) in 3 8; Q in 3 degrees n , etc., are exalted. But the
student must bear in mind that the Sun is exalted in any of the degrees
of Aries, only it has its highest exaltation in the 19th degree, and so on
in regard to the planets being exalted in their. respective Signs. These
twelve signs are divided into Four Triplicities. The fourth column tells

you which planet or planets govern each triplicity ; as over against ©,
"fi*l and ^, you find £, who governs that triplicity; and over against

°Ps fl» $ you find O and If. and so on of the other triplicities. The first

six degrees of Aries are the terms of 2£, from six to fourteen, the terms
of $ etc., etc. Over against °P , in the tenth, eleventh and twelfth

columns, you find £ 10, O 20, 9 30; viz. the first ten degrees of °P
are the Face of £ ; from ten to twenty, the Face of O; from twenty to

thirty, the Face of $ , etc.

In the thirteenth column, over against °P you find $ detriment, viz.:

$ being in °p , is in a sign opposite to one of her own houses, and so is

said to be in her detriment. In the fourteenth column, over against °f

you T
find *> , over his head "Fall," that is, ? when he is in °p is

opposite to his exaltation, and so is very unfortunate, etc. Though
these things are expressed in the nature of the planets, yet this table

makes it more evident to the eye, and is useful for reference.

* I refer the student to Ptolemv's Tetrabiblos translated bv Mr. Ashmond, for the reason or ex-
planation why certain planets were alotted to rule or govern certain triplicites ; as Mars ruling the
Watery Triplicity, and the Sun and Jupiter the Fiery, etc



1 1 1

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 237

Plane

X ofth

ii £ +4 ^ E> 3 p s p a -3 1"

>
^ n. w

i-3
*G >

« «J* <tf K 0* +0 cc ^ cc 40 0* td
The

anets.

!o
+0 0* G8 o« cc „

4^ 80 w O 2
3

tO to to M M 1— <
<T> 3- 3 ~r"

—J 00 Oo M ca Oi Oo Oo vC m <*
c/>

1

n
O* «f 40 O 0* c^ 40 a* •S31 40 O -3

3 i-T 1
rt 1— •

<
O* cc W K 0* CC ^ 6

4^ 0* CC \& rt -g_
4^ m

w
&

40 *J +0 ^ 0* ^ CC «J 04 cc +0 4^ m
*

00 ON ON CO ON ON a ON ON ^J 00 ON

4^ cc cc -to ^ 40 +0 CC « £J cc 40 >
-3 1—

-^ to to 4^ 4^ M Oo 00 Oo -^ Ca -^ y d
t—

cc +0 & oc +0 « « 40 CC +0 « CC
rf
3

to to h- H to M -
M M t—

to to to to
O NO nO HH vO 00 ^O O M to M 9

2 hH
«

0* H 0* <P cc CC <vj* 4^ +0 «J* <J o* 3 w
rt

tO tO to to tO to to to to to to to en
ON C/T Ol C-Tl ^a 4* -h* en -»3 <-n ON ON >

%
«o< O* •S3* 0* ^ O* 0* O* «f O* O* <? b
Oo Oo Oo Oo Oo Oo Oo Oo Oo Oo Oo 00
O O O O O O O O

«v3< +0 £ CC 0* W td
O c^ 40 4^ CC 0* hH

M en hH
O n> h3

O
4^ oc O* & O <0< +0 4^ CC Ov ^8f Ocf CO

&-

O a rt>

-d
"3d

po

CH w O K71 40 4^ CC 0* w O c^ »o 3
H rt>

en

3 O ^
CC ^ OC +0 0* 4^ -a1 «f 4^ 0* 40 3

1

r-r >
cc ^ SO ^ O 40 0* eg K* ft

<_< CO
CD

K? « O* *
cc O W O <r

-to



238 elements of astrology.

Remarks on the Table of the Essential Dignities of the Planets.
The exact method of judging in Astrology is, first, by being perfect

in the nature of the planets, and signs ; secondly, by knowing the
strength, fortitude, or debility of the signincators, and well poising or
ballancing them, and their aspects, and the several mixtures in your judg-
ment ; thirdly, by rightly applying the influence of the chart of the
heavens erected, and the planets aspects to one another at the time of
birth, according to natural and not enforced maxims of art ; for by how
much vou endeavor to strain a judgment beyond nature, by so much do
you augment your error.

A planet is then said to be really strong when he has many essential
dignities, which are known by his being either in his house, exaltation,
triplicity, term, or face at the time of birth. As, for example, in any
scheme of the heavens, if you find a planet in any of those signs we call

his house, he is then essentially strong, as ^ in Y3, or % in f , etc.

Essential Dignity by House.—In judgment, when a planet or signifi-

cator is in his own sign, it represents a man in such a condition, as

that he is lord of his own house, estate and fortune ; or a man who has
a good share of the goods of this world; or it tells you the man is in a

very happy state or condition ; this will be true, unless the significator

be retrograde, or afflicted by any other malevolent planet or aspect.

Exaltation — If he is in that sign wherein he is exalted, you may
consider him essentially strong ; whether he be near the very degree of

his exaltation, or not ; as $ in Y3 or 2£ in £p.
If the significator is in his exaltation, and no ways afflicted, and in an

angle, it represents a person of haughty condition, arrogant, assuming to

himself more than his due ; for it is observed, the planets, in some part

of the Zodiac, do more evidently declare their effects than in others.

Triplicity.—If he is in any of these signs which are alotted him for

his triplicity, he is also strong, but in a less degree.

A planet in his triplicity shows a man moderately endued with the
goods of this world and rather fortunate ; one well descended, and the

condition of his life to be good ; but not so much as if in either of the

two former dignities.

Term.— If any planet is in these degrees we assign for its terms, we
allow it to be slightly dignified, but in rather low circumstances.
A planet fortified, only as being in its own terms, rather shows a man

of the corporature and temper of the planet, than any extraordinary
abundance in fortune, or eminence in the commonwealth.

Face.—If any planet is in its decanate, or face, it has the least

possible essential dignity ; but being in its own face, it cannot then be
called peregrine or out of all dignities, but a person indicated by it, is

generally in very low circumstances, unless in good aspect, or otherwise
strong by house, etc.

A planet being only in its face, describes a man ready to be turned
out of doors, having much to do to maintain himself in credit and repu-
tation; and in genealogies it represents a family at the last gasp, even
quite decayed, hardly able to support itself.



.

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 39

A planet in its detriment or in opposition to its own sign, as Venus
in Aries, is said to be very weak, similar to a person who is at the point
ot being turned out of doors. A planet in its fall or in opposition to its

exaltation as Saturn in Aries, is compared to a person who has met with
some misfortune, or has got down in the world, or is in poverty.
The planets may be strong in other ways; viz., accidentally, as when

direct, swift in motion, angular, in A or % aspect with 21 or $ the
O or } etc., or in

, <f with certain notable fixed stars, as shall hereafter
be related. $®~ When reading a horoscope or nativity, always notice
what essential dignity, weakness or imbecility any planet has.

Jovs of the Planets.

A planet may sometimes be more exalted in one sign, or have higher
essential dignities, than only being in its own house or exaltation, and
whenever a planet is in that particular sign, it is said to joy or be
specially dignified, and which indicates that the person signified is in very
good circumstances, or has nearly all the goods that this world can afford.

Joys or High Exaltations of the Planets.

*> Rejoices, or is best fortified in £$
71 Joyeth, and is best dignified in $ .

$ Takes pleasure most, or rejoices in TI^.

O Joyeth most in Si.

$ Is best of all dignified in c5 •

£ Is highly exalted, and pleased in TTJ2..

J) The only joy of Moon is in £p.

The Reason a Planet Receives its Joy in one of its own
Signs, and not in the Others.

Saturn rejoices in Aquarius, and not in Capricorn, because it is not
only in its own sign, but it is also in its triplicity which makes it more
exalted, consequently more potent.

Jupiter rejoices in Sagittary, ^ather than in Pisces, because in Sagittary

it is in its triplicity, besides being in its own sign.

Mars is the same, it is also in its triplicity, besides being in its own
sign, in the sign Scorpio.
The Sun is also in its triplicity, besides being in its own sign, in Leo,

which causes it to be highly exalted.
Venus is also in her triplicity, besides being in her own sign, in Taurus,

which causes her to rejoice in that sign.

Mercury is exalted in Virgo, rather than in Gemini, because it is in

its exaltation, besides being in its own sign, in Virgo.
The Moon is in her highest dignities in Cancer, her own sign.

Historical Remarks on the Essential Dignities of the Planets.

There has been much difference between the Greeks, Arabians and
other Eastern nations concerning the essential dignities of the planets

as to the disposal of the several degrees of the signs suitably to any
planet. After many ages had passed and before the time of Claudius



240 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Ptolemy, the astrologers were not entirely settled in the matter ; but
since Ptolemy's time the Greeks unanimously followed the method he left,

and which the other Christians of Europe to this day have since retained
as most rational but the

; Moors of Barbary at present, and those
astrologers of their race who lived in Spain, somewhat varv from us in

certain numbers oi the degrees of the essential dignities of the planets, etc.

Orbs of the Planets.

All the planets are said to cast an influence of several degrees around
themselves when they are near or approaching an aspect of another
planet, and getting within a certain number of degrees, they are then
said to be within orbs. The following are the orbs of the planets ; both
when approaching an aspect or when separating.

Table of the Planefs Orbs.

Degrees. Minutes.
Saturn's Orbs are 10 00
Jupiter's " u 12 00
Mars' 7 30
Sun's " " *7 00
Venus' " *' 8 00
Mercury's tc "

7 00
Moon's 1 2 3°

Here you see Saturn's Orb is 10 degrees no minutes, the half of which
is 5 degrees. Jupiter's Orb is 12 degrees, half of which is 6 degrees.
Mars' Orb is 7 degrees 30 minutes, the half of which is 3 degrees
and 45 minutes. Hence it results that the platic aspect (or remaining
within Orbs) of Saturn and Mars remain until they are about 9 degrees
distant from their Partial (or exact) aspect. The same when two planets
are approaching an aspect. Jupiter and Saturn are in aspect as soon as

thev get within 1 1 degrees of the aspect.

Example.

Suppose Satutn be in 15 degrees of Aries, and Venus in 10 degrees of
Gemini, they are then in platic sextile of one another, for the Orb of
Saturn, as you may see by the Table is 10 degrees, the half of which
is 5. The Orb oi Venus is 8, take half of that which is 4, and added
to half the Orb of Saturn makes 9, so that they are within Orbs of
a sextile aspect, when they are 9 degrees distant from their exact sextile

in their respective signs.

The Mean Motions of the Planets.

The planets have certain motions in the Zodiac, when they are direct

and the following is what is termed the mean motion of the planet, but
sometimes they are Retrograde, and the mean motion includes both the

Retrograde and their direct motion.
The Sun and the Moon never have any Retrograde motion. The

Sun has very near the same motion each day, but the Moon varies very

much in its motion on account of its apogee and perigee, that is, being

far away or near the Earth.



1

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 24

Of the Mean Motion of the Planets.

Degrees. Minutes. Seconds.
Saturn's o 2 I

Jupiter's o 4 59
Mars' o 31 27
Sun's o 59 8
Venus' o 59 8
Mercury's o 59 8
Moon's »3 10 36

The use which may be made of this, is to know when a planet is

swift or slow in motion, for if it moves more in 24 hours than is allowed
fpr its mean motion, it is said to be swift, and if it moves less than its

mean motion, it is said to be slow in motion. When a planet is swift

in motion and making an aspect, that aspect is stronger for good or evil

according to the aspect, than if the planet is slow in motion.

The Sympathy and Antipathy of the Planets. Or Friends

and Enemies.

There are certain planets that are said to be friendly to other planets
and there are planets which are said to bear enmity to other planets.

Venus and Mars are said to be the greatest enemies of all the planets,

but for all that they both take sides against their old and common enemy
Saturn, as Venus and Mars are both enemies of that planet. The
following is the table of friendships and enmities of the different planets,

which the student ought to remember if possible, as he will find it of
much advantage in his practice of astrology.

A Table of the Friendships and Enmities of the Planets.

Planets. Friends. Enemies.
Saturn's % Q $ J $ 9
Jupiter's ^ $ $ J $
Mars' ? only ^ U $ $ }
Sun's 2t $ 9 S J ^
Venus' U $ O $ 1 ^
Mercury's ^ 2£ $ J) $
Moon's U O ? *? &

By this table you may perceive that the friends of Saturn are Jupiter
Sun, Mercury and Moon, his enemies are Mars and Venus.

In the above table it is said that Venus is a friend of Mars, but Mars
is an enemy of Venus. Indeed Venus is friendly to nearly all the

planets, except Saturn, but for all that the student will find in his prac-
tice in astrology that when it comes to the Human family that Venus
and Mars get along verv badly together. For instance : If a person
is born with either, Aries or Taurus, or Libra or Scorpio on their as-

cendant, in these horoscopes they have the opposite signs on the 7th house,
and if Mars is lord of the ascendant, then Venus is lady of the 7th, or

if Venus is lady of the ascendant, then Mars is lord of the 7th house.

In all nativities which I have seen with any of these signs on the ascend-



' ;

242 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

ant, unless there are some special good aspects for marriage in these horo-
scopes, they nearly all separate. Certainly they are very jealous of each
other, and make each other very unhappy.
The student when examining two horoscopes if he finds one of them

has Mars lord of the ascendant, and the other has Saturn lord of the
ascendant, he can depend upon it that those two parties cannot agree well in

any kind of partnership, or business undertaking, or even if one of them
has the Sun lord of the ascendant, and the other has Saturn lord of the
ascendant, those parties will not agree either in marriage, or partnership,
as Saturn's house is in opposition to the Sun's house. The same remark
may be applied to other planets which are at enmity with each other.

The reason Mars' and Venus' men and women, cannot agree in

marriage or partnership, is that these two planets are of opposite natures;
that is Mars, is hot and dry, quick tempered, full blooded and evil.

Venus is cold and moist, phlegmatic and fortunate and good ; besides

each have their sign opposite to each other, that is Aries is opposite
to Libra, and Taurus is opposite to Scorpio. Besides these signs do not
agree in temperament, as Aries is hot and dry, and Libra is hot and
moist Taurus is cold and dry, and Scorpio is cold and moist. The
same kind of reasoning applies to all the planets and the signs that they
are ladies or lords of.

Aspects of the Planets.

If the student refers to page 89 of this volume, he will find there the
various aspects mentioned and explained, and which he ought to have
committed to memory. The various houses of the heavens are in

aspect to each other, and also the signs are in aspect to each other, and
the planets in their revolutions round the heavens form these various
aspects when transiting through these signs.

These aspects have been known and recognized for thousands of years.

They are :

(^ Conjunction. § Opposition. 180
% Sextile. 6o° © Part or Fortune.

Square. 90 Q> Dragon's Head or
J) Node.

A Trine. 120 IS Dragon's Tail.

The Sextile and Trine are what is termed fortunate aspects, the Con-
junction is a fortunate aspect with good planets, and an unfortunate one
with evil planets; the square and opposition are the evil aspects, and
show a state of enmity between these planets that are in opposition or

square to each other. Besides these aspects which were known to the

ancients, John Keppler one of the greatest astronomers that ever lived,

discovered other aspects that have come into general use with astrologers

although they are not so important as the ones that the ancients knew.
In short when we have either the squares, oppositions or conjunctions,

sextiles or trines, we pay but slight attention to these new aspects ; hut
when there are no special aspects of the planets formed by what is

termed the old aspects, then we notice the new aspects and they are the

following.



ELEMENTS OF ASRTOLOGY. 243

The New Aspects Discovered by John Kepler.

Semi-sextile 30 apart.

Semi-square 45 "
Quintile 72° "

Sesqui-quadrate 135° "
Biquintile 144Q "

Parallel of declination, i. e., when two planets are the same number
of degrees distant from the Equator, whether one is North and t e other
South or both are North or South.
The student ought to understand that the Semi-sextile aspect is only

about half the strength of the sextile aspect, and the same with the Semi-
square ; also these aspects formed by dividing or adding to the good
aspects, are fortunate aspects. These that are made up out of the evil

aspects of the ancient, such as squares, oppositions, etc., are evil aspects.

The Part of Fortune and what is called the Moon's Node, or
Dragon's Head, or Dragon's Tail, are not strictly speaking aspects, still

they are positions that astrologers make use of in their predictions. The
Part of Fortune is a point of equal distance from the ascendant that the
Moon is from the Sun, and is called the luminary to the ascend-
ant, and it has much to do with money matters, when in a good house
or in good aspect to good planets, the native is generally fortunate in

money matters, unless he has otherwise a very evil horoscope. Also
when afflicted by evil planets, or being in evil houses, the native is gen-
erally unfortunate in money matters, and if he has an unfortunate
horoscope, he is poor most of his life. If the Part of Fortune is cadent
and has no aspect, I rarely notice it, or regard it as of little account.
The Dragon's Head, or Moon's Node, is that point where the Moon

crosses the ecliptic, and it is generally where the eclipses occur. The
Dragon's Head is counted fortunate ; the Dragon's Tail is unfortunate.
Dragon's Head is of a similar nature or influence to Jupiter, only not
so strong, and Dragon's Tail is similar in nature or influence to Saturn,
but not so evil.*

* All modem astrologers are not agreed nor of the same mind as to the effect or influence on
the native of the planets when in their " Essential Dignities,'' or as to the influence of the
"Dragon's Head" and "Dragon's Tail," or the effect of the " Part of Fortune." Seme
astrologers wish to discard all of them ; and of that number was Mr. James Wilson as evinced in liis

D ci lo.iriry of Astrolgoy. He would not admit that any planet can have any effect in any other sign
tn in the one in which it is posited in the horoscope. But nearly all astrologers of the present
d iv admit that the planets are lords or ladies of certain signs ; as Mars is lord of Aries aid
Scorpio, Venus is lady of Taurus and Libra, etc-, whether they are posited in these signs or not ;

b it so ne modern astrologers question the efficacy of the "Terms" and " Faces " of the signs and
arj it variance as regard these minor influences.
My own experience has led me to believe that each and every planet is stronger in certain signs

a. id in certain degrees of signs than in others. I always feel sorry for any person born with his
ruling planet out of all Essential Dignities and in cadent houses, and in no good aspects to fortu-
n ite planets, and the Moon, and the P:irt of Fortune afflicted ; such persons are drudges or menials
ne.iriyall of their lives and generally die in poverty. I should have been more fortunate it the
Drigon's Tail h^d not been in my midheaven, and the Part of Fortune had not been so
afflicted bv Mercury applying to an opposition of it from the tenth house, and Mais making a
squ.ire from the sixth house, and the Moon my significator in the twelfth house just leaving a
square.

There are some persons so dull or obtuse as not to be able to distinguish any of these finer

influences in astrology, or indeed in anv other art or science ; as there are persons that cannot
take pleasure in music on account of their inability to distinguish between the tunes 'Old
Hundred'' and "Yankee Doodle," and there are others who cannot understand anything that is

not hammered into them as if by a sledge hammer.



— — —

*44 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

GOOD AND EVIL PLANETARY HOURS.
" The lucky have whole days, and these they choose :

The unlucky have but hours, and these they lose." Drvdhn.
"There is a tide in the affairs of met), which taken at the flood, leads on to fortune''

Shakespeare.
" To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven ; a time to be

born and a time to die * * *
; a time to kill, and a time to heal ; * * * a time to get, and a lime

to lose." Solomon.

The meaning of the above is, that fortunate persons when they in-

tend to transact any particular business, or make any special changes in

their lives, choose " fortunate hours " or " lucky times " for that purpose,
such as getting mairied, removing, taking journeys, going into any new
business, performing surgical operations, beginning treatment of patients,

changing the medicine, etc.

The unlucky persons not knowing these fortunate hours, and having
no intuition or knowledge to guide them, often choose " unfortunate
hours " to commence important undertakings, which cause these under-
takings to generally end in disaster ; and although they may hav,e

short periods of good fortune, not knowing when these " fortunate
hours " occur they do not succeed, and their "Lives," as Shakespeare
says, " are bound in shallows and in miseries."

In ancient times, or before the Christian Dispensation it was custom-
ary to ascertain the good and evil times by calculating the movements
of the heavenly bodies, and all important business was commenced
under fortunate " Planetary influence," and in " fortunate hours," such
as turning the first "sod," laying the first "stone," or driving the first

"pile" on which to erect an important building or structure. (See
note on page of the Appendix.)

It is just possible that choosing these " fortunate " times for the com-
mencement of large constructions may have had something to do with
the duration of these ancient buildings, as for example, the Catacombs
and Pyramids of Egypt, the ruins of Babylon, and the numerous
Temples of Greece and Rome, and other ancient structures referred to

by Volney, and other writers in their account of the ruins of ancient

cities. Mr. Volney in his book on "Ancient Ruins " furnishes sub-

stantial proof of the attention which our forefathers gave to Zodiacal
and Planetary influence in relation to the time of commencing their

buildings and large constructions.

It is impossible to explain why the time for the commencement of
any new business, or the erection of any important building, should have
anything to do with the future prosperity of that business, or the long

duration of these buildings, any more than it is possible to explain why
the time when the child draws the first breadth of life, and the aspects

of the heavenly bodies, and the positions of the signs of the Zodiac,
should have anything to do with the life, death, sickness, health, pros-

perity or adversity of that child ; but such are the facts, and which
facts can be proved in thousands and even millions of instances. We



Elements of astrology. 245

have to take these facts as we find them, as we take thousands of
other facts or occurences, without any proof beyond the facts themselves.
We cannot reason on them, until we have enough to formulate a science,

after being arranged into methodical order.

Astrologers like other persons in the various conditions and walks
of life, have had differences ; some have believed certain parts of
astrology which others have not. Astrologers might be compared to the
two classes of homcepathic physicians, one of them being high potency
and the other low potency. There are artrologers who do not believe

in the high potency of Astrology, or in anything they cannot calculate,

and get positive or ponderable proof of ; they do not believe in any of
the imponderables in Astrology ; For instance, these Astrologers take

but little stock in the " Part of Fortune," the '"Dragon's Head " and
the "Dragon's Tail," the "Planetary Hours," and the "Essential Dig-
nities of the Planets," etc. Some will even deny the special influences

of each of the u twelve houses " as they are termed, and will only believe

or notice the angles, or the points of the heavens of the rising, setting,

and the culminating of the Sun, Moon and planets; and the nadir, or,

that point opposite the midheaven.

Professor Wilson was one of the latter kind of Astrologers, and yet
no one was more emphatic in his belief of Astrology, and had less pati-

ence with the unbelievers in that science. In his Dictionary of
Astrology in answer to the objectors and sceptics in Astrology, he makes
use of the following language :

u As to the common place objections against Astrology, they are too
superficial to be worth a moment's attention, much less to deter an active
mind from pursuing its researches. A small degree of penetration in a
student will soon enable him to perceive that his adversaries are men of
little knowledge, or great prejudice, with very limited capacities, and almost
incapable of reflection 5 without any original thoughts, or indeed thoughts
at all, except what they have borrowed from such as have made but few ob-
servations of their own, respecting themselves or the universe in genenil

;

they are men that are either absorbed in other speculations than those of
nature, or who think only by permission ; that would believe the legend,
and deny the existence of the antipodes if others about them did the same.
With them the <vox populi is truly the <vox Dei] the only argument capable
of convincing them is a great show of hands; and any absurd h\ pothesis,

having the major part of the world on its side, (a thing not very uncommon,)
would soon add them to the number of its disciples. I know that in answer
to this the opinions of learned men maybe quoted, but learning is not always
united with discernment or real knowledge, any more than the words of a

talking bird, are united with ideas. Learning is a mechanical acquirement
that may be posessed by a very silly person ; and of this we have number-
less instances. With such men reason is useless; they would oppose custom
to reason, and authorities to facts. I once had an argument with one of
these, a person of extensive learning and uniform dullness, except when re-

lieved at intervals by a most unaccountable, persevering obstinacy. We
were speaking of the Moon, which he denied had any influence on the

weather. I pointed out to him and even predicted several instances, wherein a

change of weather would take place, which most or all of them were verified



246 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

and I won some trifling wagers from him on this score ; but though still

vanquished, as Goldsmith says, he would still argue, and with as much ob-
stinacy as if he had never been proved to be in the wrong I then began to

appeal to his reason, and asked him, ' If" the Moon could move a fluid of
such gravity as water, why it might not more easily affect or influence the
atmosphere, which was more light and elastic?' He denied that I could
prove that it did affect the water, Surely, said I, the tides prove that ; this

too, he denied. He admitted that it was a strange coincidence of periods,
but contended that they might have been as they are, had the Moon never
existed. I had some inclination to make him affirm (which I easily could
have done,) that day and night, and summer and winter might have been
the same as they are, had the Sun never existed; but I was weary of his

folly."

Students will readily perceive that no one could be more positive and
emphatic in his belief in Astrology than Mr. Wilson. Indeed had he
not been a firm believer in that science he would never have compiled,
written and published his " Dictionary of Astrology," which work
evinces a degree of learning and research that is truly marvellous, and
had he had an equally extensive practice in Astrology, he would have
been a thorough believer in the " Part of Fortune " the " Twelve
Houses" and the " Dragon's Head" and "Dragon's Tail," and the

"Essential Dignities," etc.

There are astrologers similar to myself, who may oe classed as the
" high potency " astrologers, and who believe whatever occurs in the

heavens, has a corresponding influence on the earth, and whatever posi-

tions the various heavenly bodies assume in the heavens, have a cor-
sponding effect on the earth ; and who believe in the principles of
Astrology similar to the poet Thomas Niel who wrote the following
lines, and which contain more truth than poetry.

" I tell thee,
"There is not a pulse beats in the human frame
That is not governed by the stars above us,
The blood that fills our veins, in all its ebb
And flow, is swayed by them as certainly
As are the restless tides of the salt sea

By the resplendent moon : and at thy birth
Thy mother's eye, gazed not more steadfastly
On thee, than did the star that rules thy fate,

Showering upon thy head an influence
Malignant or benign."

The above lines prove that Mr. Neil was what we might term a " high
potency" astrologer.

The poet Dryden may be classed among the high potency astrologers,

if we may judge by the following remarks, which he made to his wife,

after he had calculated the horoscope of his son Charles. He told lady
Dryden that the child was born in an evil hour, meaning an evil
" planetary hour," which was one of the hours of Saturn or Mars, and
as he said " the lord of the ascendant was afflicted with a hateful square of
both Saturn and Mars," and being born in the hour of one of those
planets made that aspect more unfortunate or evil.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. l^J

Also we may class the poet Goethe among the high potency Astrolo-
gers, if we may judge by what he states in his autobiography. He tells

us "
: My horoscope was propitious ; the Sun was in the sign of the virgin

and had culminated for the day. Jupiter and Venus looked on him with
a friendly eye, and Mercury not adversely, while Saturn and Mars kept
themselves indifferent. The Moon alone just full exerted the power of her
reflection all the more, as she had just reached "

her " 'planetary hour.'
John Kepler, may also be classed among the high potency astrologers,

where he says: "A most unfailing experience of the excitement of
-ublunary natures by the conjunctions and aspects of the planets, has
instructed and compelled my unwilling belief."

Remarks on the Planetary Hours.

The planetary hour is not the ordinary sixty minutes of the clock
time, but the period of Sunrise to Sunset, divided into twelve equal
parts ; each part being a "planetary hour" of that day. From Sunset
to Sunrise is also divided into twelve equal parts, and each part is a

"planetary hour" of that night.

One of the main reasons why " planetary hours " have been so ne-
glected by modern astrologers, is the difficulty in calculating those
" hours," especially in the higher latitudes where the days are very long
in the Summer months, (as in England, Scotland, Sweden and Norway,)
and where the days are so short in the winter months. Also the difficulty

in counting the planets in their proper order, from sunrise of that par-

ticular day to the hour and minute the astrologers wish to attend to any
important business, or the time a person was born.

I have succeeded in getting up a set of " Tables of Planetary Hours,"
that by inspecting and knowing the day of the week, month, and the

day of the month, and the hour of day, one can easily find which planet
rules that particular "Planetary Hour" and see when any planet's hour
begins, and when it ends, and by these tables a person can choose "for-
tunateplanetary hours " to transact any important business or commence
a new undertaking ; and can guard against beginning those undertakings
in evil hours. Not only that, but the student can avoid making the

mistakes which were very common, in counting the planets and the
hours from sunrise or sunset, to the hour and minute he wishes to

calculate them to.

If the student turns to pages 14, 15, 16 and 17 of this volume, he
will find an explanation of the origin of the names of the days in the
week, and of the order in which they run.

On page 14 he will find a table illustrating why Sunday follows Sat-

urdav, and Monday follows Sunday, and so on of all the other days in

the week. These days were arranged on the principle of the first hour
after sunrise of that day, being dedicated to the planet which it is named
after, or the planet which rules that day.
We have no historical account of the time when the days were first

arranged in the order we now have them. It even goes back long before
any written record, or the building of the Pyramids of Egypt, and is

even older than the Three Towers of Babylon.



248 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

The order of the days and their arrangement into seven, or one
quarter of a Moon, or the fourth of a month, so harmonizes with the
laws of nature that it has penetrated into ev^ry nation that is even half
civilized, and has been adopted by those nations in every quarter of the
globe. Not only that, but they have been called by the names of the
planets, and used by the people in all ages or at least as far back as we
have any record.

The Latin and the French languages up to the | resent d-v make use
of the names of the planets, for all the names of ihe days cf the week,
except Sunday.*

As already stated in pages 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17, and illustrated in the
Table of Planetary Hours on page 14, that the planet rules the day it is

named after, and also rules the first hour after sunrise ; that the seven
planets have each a day of the week allotted to them, and that the order
of the planets are reckoned from the planet Saturn inwards towards th~
Moon, and the first hour of the day after sunrise is ruled by the planet
that the day is named after, therefore on Sunday the Sun rules the f- ^

* Whenever I have lectured on the " Planetary Hours," someone of the audience has taken ex-
ception to the idea that certain names of the days of the week have heeii changed and named after
some notahle General, and will insist that they are named in honor of deities or pagan gods. I

cannot bring to mind in which History of England I have seen the names of those pagan generals
mentioned, and stated that the names of certain days of the week were called after them. I think
it is Lingard in his His.ory of England mentioned " Twi " and stated that Tuesday was named
after that General. Mrs- Anna Bowman in her book on Travels in Norway and Sweden gives
the account of the church, and the two graves where Thorr and h's wife Frea are buried, also
states that Thursday and Friday were named in honor of them. " VV olden " or man of the woods,
has been named in a number of histories as being a noted General and afterwards became a deity
or Saint after his death, and Wednesday was named in honor of him.

Mr. Isaac Sharp]ess and Professor G. M. Phillips in their astronomy mention that Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday an.l Friday are named after four English deities. Nothing could be more
ridiculous than that, as the ancient Druids did not have any deities, or Pagan gods, like the Pagans
on the northern part of Europe ; they were gieat observers of the laws ot nature, and of the heav-
enly bodies, especially the rising and setting of the Sun, Moon, and the various planets as can be
proved by the ruins of Stonehenge, which still remain on Salisbury Plains, Wiltshire, England.
No matter what names so ne of the days of the week are now called, one thing is certain, that in

old or ancient languages, as tile Latin, the names of the days of the week were all named after the
panels, which rule these d.ivs, and they were afterwards changed in the modern European lan-
guages, such as the German, Italian, English, etc, all of which are corruptions of the ancient Latin.

The following table No. i, gives the names which the French use at the present dav, for the
names of the days of the week, and which they have used from time immemorial. The student
will see that each day of the week is designated by the French names of the planets which rules
that day, except Sunday ; and in some way that has got changed, as Soleil is the French name for
the Sun. The word Dimanche is supposed to be a corruption of the Latin "Dominica'' or the
Lord's day, the English still retain the name of Sunday or Sun's dav, and the German's Sonntag,
or Sunday, for the first day of the week.
The French, during the Revolution, divided the months into three decades'of ten days each, and

gave the following Latin numerical terms for the names for the respective days of the Decade in

the order as given in the 2d Table. But by Napoleon's command this new svstem was abolished,
as it was found to be too artificial for general use, and at variance with planetary laws. The
Gregorian Calender was resumed on Jan 1st, 1807.

TABLE No. 1. TABLE No. 2.
I

French Names of the Days of Names of the Days of the Decade used
the Week. BY THE Fl<ENCH DuKING THE

Dimanche Sunday. French Revolution.
Lundi Monday. 1st Primidi. 6th Sextidi.
March Tuesday. 2d Duodi. 7th Septidi.
Mercredi Wednesday. 3d Tridi. 8th Octidi.
Jeudi Thursday.' 4th Quartidi. 9th Nonidi.
Vendredi .Friday Sth Quintidi. 10th Decadi.
Samedi Saturday.

The names of the davs of the week in the German language, is very similar to that in the
English language. They are called Sonn tag, Montag. Dienstag, Mittwoch, Donnerstag, Fritag,
Samstag. Tag meaning day in German-



.

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 2A.Q

hour after sunrise, Venus rules the second hour, Mercury rules the third,

the Moon rules the fourth, Saturn rules the fifth, Jupiter rules the sixth,

Mars rules the seventh, the Sun rules the eighth, Venus rules the ninth,
Mercury the tenth and the Moon the eleventh, as the student will see
in the " Perpetual Tables of Planetary Hours, from Sunrise to 2 Hours
after Sunset" on page 255, and also in the following table.

Sun governs the first hour after Sunrise on Sunday.

Moon governs the first hour after Sunrise on Monday.
Mars governs the first hour after Sunrise on Tuesday.
Mercury governs the first hour after Sunrise on Wednesday.
Jupiter governs the first hour after Sunrise on Thursday.

Venus governs the first hour after Sunrise on Friday.

Saturn governs the first hour after Sunrise on Satnrday.

Signification of the Planetary Hours, and what
use may be made of them.

The significance of the planetary hours, and the matters, or kinds of
business they rule, and the manner in which they may be used to advan-
tage are clearly explained by old astrologers. I here give their teach-
ing not only because it is curious and interesting, but also because it is

based on sound astrological rules and principles.

7 he Influence of the Planetary Hours of the Sun, Moon
and the Five Planets.

The Hour of *>

614 In the Hour of Saturn take no voyage to Sea, neither
take any long journey by land, for crosses will assuredly at-
tend, and small success may be expected ; take no medicine, for
it will produce harm rather than good, and engage no ser-
vants, for they will prove ;dle, careless and worthless persons;
Evil to put on new garments or cut your hair; but this hour
is good to buy, or take leases of houses or lands; good to buy
any kind of grain, or to dig in the earth, or plow ; not good
to borrow money in this hour or to lend it. It is an evil
hour to fall sick in, for it threatens a long disease and liable
to terminate in death.

The Hour of 2£.

615 In the Hour ofJupiter, it is good to apply to ecclesias-
tical persons, or persons in office', and all great or wealthy men
such as lawyers, judges, senators, etc., to obtain their favor.
In this hour it is good to go out of the house, to commence a
journey to have it end with success; good to sow all kind of
seeds or to plant ; not good to let blood ; he that falls sick in



;

25O ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

this hour will soon recover; also good to lend or borrow
money ; not good to enter a ship ; not good to buy cattle.
This hour is good to propose marriage, or contract matri-
mony, etc.

The Hour of $ .

616 In the Hour of Mars begin no worthy action, or impor-
tant undertaking, or great enterprise, for it is a very unfortu-
nate hour, and therefore it is an hour to be avoided ; it is ill to
take or commence a journey, for you will be in danger of
thieves ; very ill to take a voyage to sea, and generally evil
for all things, especially for surgical operations, etc. It is

an evil hour; therefore to be shunned as much as possible.

The Hour of O.
617 The Hour of the Sun is not to be chosen, as it is gener-

ally unfortunate, unless in making application, or asking
favors of wealthy or influential persons ; not good to begin „i

building, or put on new garments; not good to enter a new
house, or remove into a house, for discontent and brawling
may then be expected to follow ; this hour is good for a man to
receive preferment in ; not good to court the female sex as
they will try to control you ; do not pay, or lend money upon
on any account ; it is also a very critical hour to be taken ill,

as the sickness is liable to be dangerous, and violent.

The Hour of $ .

618 In the Hour of Venus it is good to court women, or to
begin a journey, but not a long voyage; good to enter upon
any play, sport or pastime ; not good to let blood good to

;

go out of a man's or friend's house with success ; but not so
good to return again to it ; but good to enter your own home
good to take medicine ; but if a man falls sick in the Hour
of Venus, the disease proceeds from self-indulgence, or in
temperance, or caused someway by females; this hour is

generally good to undertake any business relating to what
concerns women, or any delightful actions ; not good to begin
to make new garments, but singularly good to propose mar-
riage, and contract Matrimony. Good for either men or
women to have dealing with females.

The Hour of $ .

619 The Hour of Mercury is very good to deal in merchan-
dise, or buy or sell, or to write letters ; to send messengers
to take medicine; to send children to school; to begin a
journey; to lend or borrow money; to put forth or bind
apprentices ; to begin any building ; but not good to contract
marriage ; or to buy houses or lands ; or to re-enter your



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOCY. 25 1

house after being on a journey, or after going- abroad, lest
discontent or brawling arise ; not good to take or hire a ser-
vant ; or to redeem a prisoner ; but good to plant or graft
and finally good to ask favors from wealthy or prominent
persons.

The Hour of J.
620 The Hour of the Moon is not counted a good hour to buy

cattle, especially of the smaller kind; nor to take medicine;
or begin any building; not good to lend money; or to
make or put on new clothes; it is a good hour to court
the female sex; or send children to school; and in some
cases to take a journey ; or to pursue an enemy, or begin a
lawsuit; and to conclude, you may make choice of this hour
to leave your native country, (if designed to travel) but
choose the hour of Venus to enter your house or return, and
to re-enter your own country again.

Remarks on the Planetary Hours

The signification of the Planetary Hours are very ancient and was
approved and made use of by the Arabians, and by nearly all the
Eastern and Asiatic nations, and are so made use of even to the present
day, and they are confirmed by astrologers generally, and by Haly and
later authors, and are of great use in all ordinary business; though they
are not of that efficacy or influence as the calculations of the movements
of the heavenly bodies, for the finding out and choosing a special time
to commence any new business or important undertaking, and which
time does also sympathize or agree with the horoscope of the native.

By observing the following Tables of Planetary Hours, the reader,

even if he knows nothing of Astrology can choose fortunate periods to

begin any particular undertaking, or removal, or to commence any im-
portant change in his life.*

I have made many thousands of observations and calculated the posi-

tions of the planets for the time that people have got married, or made
any particular change of their life, such as removal, or going into any
new business, etc, and it almost invariably proved the truth of Astrol-

ogy ; for when they have made these changes at unfortunate periods or

under what are termed evil aspects, they almost invariably ended un-
fortunately, or some way disastrously to the parties. But when they
made important changes, or commenced new undertakings under fortu-

nate aspects, they generally turned out successfully to the persons who
commenced them.

* During February 1897 I went to hear a lecture on Astrology in New York City, but as the
speaker was taken ill during the lecture I was called upon to continue the subject. When I had
finished, the sick man having recovered, he said that if any of the audience would tell Irim the
time they had received a letter, or met a person, or anv persons had called to see them, etc.. he
would tell them whether the letter contained good or bad news, etc, or whether the meeting of the
friend was favorable or not. I was much surprised to learn from the interogators that they all

stated that each of the answers the astrologer gave were correct, He did it by calculating ihzgood
and evil Planetary Hours*



252 ELEMENTS OF ASTROEOGY.

The first time I obtained or acquired perfect confidence in " Plane-
tary Hours" was in the year 1870, when I was practising medicine at

Saratoga, N. Y. I had then leisure to calculate each Planetary
Hour during the day, so that I could choose fortunate hours to visit my
patients, or to change the medicine, etc., or to have them call and see

me at my office, I found this method attended with great success, so
much so, that the people that I was acquainted with, or knew of me.
often made the remark that whenever Dr. Broughton commenced
treating any patient, they all began to improve or get well. *

The reason that the influence of the Planetary Hours can be observed
and applied to good advantage with sick people, is that generally when a
person is in poor health he feels the changes of the weather," currents of
air, damp or chilly atmosphere, noises, etc., or anything which disturbs
the nervous system more than when in perfect health. He also feels

the Planetary Influence in a more marked degree at those times. In
short it is the Planetary Influence that makes him sick, and the slighter

effects of the planets,, which at another time would only affect his wife;
his parents or near relations, or affect his business, will, when he is sick,

fall directly on himself, consequently we can more easily notice the
effect of the good and evil influence of the " Planetary Hours" on a sick

patient, and thus make use of them to benefit his health, or promote his

recovery.

The various good and evil planets, in their planetary hours do not
act on all persons alike. The positions, the strength, and the various
aspects of the planets in an individual's horoscope, have all to \>i noticed
and taken into account when judging the good or evil infl lenco of
" planetary hours " on any particular individual.

* Should the reader be a physician, and wish to make use of astrology in his practice, I would
advice him not to let any of his patients, or even any other physician know, that he has any knowl-
edge of Astrology, or that he is making any use of it in any way connected with his treatment.
Of course the prejudice against astrology is dying out, and it is nothing now to what it was 40 or
50 years ago, but even now any physician would find it a great damage to him, if he should let any
of his patients know that he is giving any attention to the subject.

At this day religious communities would not expel a Sunday school teacher from the school and
church, if it was knowa that he was studying astrology, and it is even becoming very unpopular to
arrest people for practising this science in any part of the United States, or even in England, or
other European countries; but the influence that would be brought to bear on the patient's mind,
if it was known that the doctor used Astrology in his pratice would be a serions drawback against
their recovery, or at least I have found it so in my practise.

I give the following as a sample of what the doctor would have to fight against, if his patients dis-
cover that he is studying astrology, even if he cured them, they will be ashamed of themselves,
and sorry they ever got well.

Somejo years ago when I was treating Mr William Keeny's son, in Lafayette, Jersey City, his
mother used to tell me that all the neighbors were talking to her, and wondering how she could
sleep ih her bed at night, when she had such an impostor, fraud, and humbug as Dr. Broughton,
treating her son In course of time, that kind of talk had an effect on her mind, to please her
neighbors she changed doctors, but afterwards sh^ was glad to re-engage me, although too late to
save her son. The familv told all the friends and nsighbors that had they not discharged Dr.
Broughton, the son would certainly have recovered.

I have found the use of astrology in mv practise of infinite advantage, and had I simply prac-
tised medicine, and used astrologv in a quiet wav, no phvsicinn would have been more fortunate
than myself, in making cures, but people of standing: or of anv influence in societv, are afraid of it

being known, that they have an astrologer for a doctor, therefore the advantage the phvsician gains
by being successful in his practise, he loses again through the ignorance and superstition of his
patients and their friends. While I was in Saratoga, I did not let my patients know I used astro-
logy in treating their diseases.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 253

For instance the man whose horoscope I referred to on pa^e 222
who had Jupiter so afflicted in the eighth house, would scarcely ever be
able to accomplish much, or have any good luck in the "hour of Jupi-
ter," and the hours of Mars and Saturn would be more marked evil for

him, on account of Saturn afflicting his ascendant, and Mars so afflicted

in the 1 lth house. But as he had the Sun in the midheaven, and also

Venus in the 9th house, in its own sign, (Taurus,) in trine to Saturn,

in the ascendant, his most fortunate planetary hours would be those
of Venus and the Sun.

Possibly the reason that I could notice the marked influence of Plane-
tary Hours, while treating sick patients, is on account of Saturn and
Mars afflicting my horoscope in such a marked manner at birth. Mars
being in the 6th house, (the house of sickness, ) and also being in square
to Mercury in the midheaven, and in opposition to the Moon my ruling

planet, and also Saturn afflicting my 12th house, (or the house of secrtt

enemies,) in the sign Cancer and the Moon my ruling planet making a

conjunction of Saturn. These planetary influences make the evil Plane-
tary Hours of both Saturn and Mars doubly evil in my horoscope. Jupi
ter in the 5th house, and lord of both the 9th and 10th houses, and also

lord of the 6th house, and the Moon rising in close trine to Jupiter; and
also Venus in the i lth house, unafflicted and lady of the 1 lth, and the
Sun in the midheaven at my birth, makes the hours of Jupiter, Venus,
the Moon and the Sun, doubly fortunate for me ; and their influence in

any business, etc., which I may undertake in their planetary horrs. and
especially in the commencement of treating the sick.

The reason I have given the planetary hours that would have the

most marked effect in the above horoscopes, is that the student may
learn to judge for himself what planetary hours will have the most
marked effect in any special horoscope he may calculate. He should
always bear in mind no matter whether the planet is good or evil, according
to these terms in astrology ; that planet which is the strongest, and best

aspected in any special horoscope is good for the native in that nativ-

ity. Thererore it is possible that the planetary hours of Mars, may
in certain horoscopes be the most fortunate hours for some persons;
especially if they are born under that planet, and it is strong in its own
sign, exaltation or joy, in the midheaven, or in good aspect to his

ascendant, Sun, Moon, Jupiter or Venus, at these person's time of birth,

then the planetary hour of Mars will be the most fortunate for that

native to commence any special undertaking or business for himself. But
if he wants to deal with other people, or to get the good will of other
persons, no matter how strong the planet Mars may be in hia horoscope,
he must choose the planetary hour of Jupiter, Venus or the Sun, in

asking favors or gaining any benefit from others, as he does not know but
that the planetary hours of Jupiter, Venus, Sun or Mercury may be the
strongest planets in these other person's horoscopes, and therefore these

planetary hours are the best for these persons to grant anv favors. Be-
sides these hours are generally fortunate and they are the most safe for

you to ask favors or benefit from others in, and generally these parties



254 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

are more likely to grant these favors when they are approached in what
is termed good planetary hours, especially if you have fortunate planetary
influences operating in your own horoscope at the same time.

Before I noticed the good and evil influence of the Planetary Hours
in regard to sick persons, I never had much confidence in them, as I

could get no marked effect when I tried to use them in ordinary busi-

ness, but since 1870 I have been able to notice them much more closely,

and with great advantage.

Tables of Planetary Hours Which Commence on Page 25$.

By inspecting them the student will see that the hours are calculated

from Sunrise until two hours after Sunset. The first column in each
table includes both the commencement of the planetary hour and
its end ; in all the other columns the hour and minute is printed when a

planetary hour ends, and the name of the planet is printed in that col-

umn, and the column preceding gives the hour and minute when that

planetary hour commences. The two hours after Sunset gives the length

of the planetary hours of the night, for each day in the year that the

Tables are printed for, and therefore any person who wishes to And
what particular planet rules before Sunrise, has only to deduct from the

hour.and minute the length of the planetary hour of the night from the

hour and minute given of the first figures printed in the first column of
the Table, and count in the order of the planets from the Moon to

the planet Saturn. Should the student wish to find whtt planet

rules the hour and the length of the hour after Sunset, he can add the

length of the planetary hour of the night to the last column after Sun-
set, and continue counting the planets from Saturn inward towards the

Moon. By doing so he can easily find what planet rules any speeial

hour of the night or early morning.

Near the 21st of March or the 21st of September in any year
it is very easy to reckon the planetary hours from sunrise to sun-
set, also from sunset to sunrise. The student should always bear
in mind that the first hour of the day is always ruled by the planet
that rules that day ; therefore on Sunday near the above dates, the

Sun rules from the hour^nd minute that it rises to one hour after sunrise

Venus rules from one hour after sunrise to two hours after sunrise and
so on in that order of the planets.

If the student turns to page 258 of the planetary hours where it

reads, " on or near the second day of May of any year " he will find

that the planetary hours through the day is one hour and ten minutes
;

therefore he can reckon the hour before sunrise to any pari of the early

morning by calling each planetary hour fifty minutes, being ten minutes
less on the hour, and so on in any of the other tables.

The student should also bear in mind that the last hour of any day
is ruled by the planet next preceding the one which rules the following

day. For instance on Saturday the last hour of the night is ruled by
the planet Mars, and the hour previous to that is ruled by the planet

Jupiter, and so on of all other planets and planetary hours of the night.



*» 1 1» . > < r

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 255

• - Tf uo
* — SO -H

.j 60
<L> a 8*

s ^
. S .

ro "

^ oc s 00 S,oo g°c ^00 8
e

r5 °° 00

c ~ ^ C frj

s *o &5 O O *
C/3 4-J 4-> *-" 4-1

3 ro \o
CO £ £

H S -H
a s ~"

. 8 "*• 8' s .

" 1 ^
J

3 e- O * O CQ
u O ^ O *l O 5s O

4-> 4-J
-

,JJ^ —^—
,

<-W ro «+ IA1 \o
~ »> ^ OO . O

cti s ^
«J K a •0 "

8 • u s .

g a \d
° R \ri evd >
J i>> i-

l/J
PUi ^ * O fc» <u

4-J 4-> * 2 4-> 4-J U
3 ro tS a f"< .' ^1" uo VO VO to

8 •— S- -H *•

a ^H »9 ^H 8 —*
£ 1 s . £ s 1 «2

uo e to 8
"1, ^ uo 3 uo •-

1 * O U
^ 2 O ^O =

4-J '-J w
<N <

CO ro o
£ «S -H 8 -. — ro r

a Ih
Ih S . 03 8* 8

4- V 03

>> ^ . S u
Ih V

a> Ô V 4 O
3 is 2 ^2 4-> 4-J

c So —— w
Jo N . O
c C C 03 >> c

to S -H "* is —1 e?
(1) 3 a 03 s <HH s'

• m e 1 C £ -
s

<«H
CO p ro <*- « CO £ ro

**H
• »-« 1 e-. O O

&3 O ^ O ^ <HH O
O

Ih 4-J 4— u 1-1 ^2 J3

C ^ O Ih
>> ci O —

3 u
u Ih °° Ih S u

a |> O On
03 s Ih a

§ m' s
1 N 8 N

2 1
p-. O 2 ^ O ^ •4H s

O ^ 2 <*- ^ 1
*J 2 2 O bs O

J;

O J-J c
<4H

_o
+J d *->

•0 §'°. 8* ^
(0 5

u. a
M 8 M m s"

5 O ^ 1
X! 05 O 0)

^ 4-J CO JG s
*-> 4—*

*-> A •— 4.J
CU X! *-* T3

4-1
CO *-> Ih X!
u Ih

r- »
|4 « £ O Ih h u

. LO - UO Ih
S>i LO -Z

<i s ""
4) T

3 * <A
T3« N Ctf

0) V 8 •

<L> a 1 N C N c
•1

C C u C c k —
Ih 1

O Ih Ih

X Ih O Ih O
O 2 O C

O ^ O C
c Ih 4— 4-J O

c C c C O c ^^""
X-
bfi

OO O >i rr, c
• fO 3

v.' ro
s 2

s a 3 J >> S
cd In —•

C
03 k -H -" QQ

ctj

d 1 < -d •d
O CO •d

en
c O ^ X

Ih
t/3 ^ CtJ

Tl 1 n Q
c 4— 4-> •"* X-i

c 4-> Ih 4-J d
d -d d

CO 2 . 10 h X! 3
cd 8* CO

a 6 £
1 1 6 c

a, 1 2 2
^ I^ O << O °°

ON
<+- 4-> 4->

~ 4-> 4-J 00

O >> ON On -

a so 8 -H L O j=
8 ? a" *J U

<L) ON l ON 1 Os ON e oc -c

s X < 2 ^
&5 O O ^ O O-. >a»

4-J 4_> 4-J 4-J

OO ^°Ort >>oo
uo *:

h to oi LO £ UO
S a s 1 8 O S> uo

s
S OC ^oo- OC
1 < O &2 O ^ s

4— i-> *-> 4-J 4-J

3 r^ VO UO
"<+-

+* N O 10 LO UO uo

a, a O So § « 1 O S O
§1 4-> a. i-' 4_> S 4-1

Ih < rO w fi &5 ro
o uo uo UO UO

a. vC vo t
LT> uo uo uo uo



» • »>» i t• —t

2^6 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

•
On & o # — ^ . N t^N Ti-

8* N
<l> u k § 5a *5 N

3 .

c s 8 o •
o t/i CJ oc oo' OO* f5 °° © OO
C •3*. Ph

u mi S I o * O % O * O *i o
CO *-"

3 •j 4-> 4— 4->

h co . rh U-i NO r-^ 00
CO £ o^

8 M

u *! § 8 • e 1 .

1 t^
r5 t"- o k r-

4 flu O K 93
o < o O S5 O * o

4-> ^ o
4-1 4-1

r^ OO ON O =^~ M . f<~,

N . ^*-

K* 2 N
s y c- c^ ro c^. co

3 b a tJ
• 2 • 4>

C -2 sO avo O NO C NO s
•r NO NO >

CO 05
C0>? c O O 5 o ^O O

4-1 4— 5 4-4 ^2 4-. W
3 co -«-

Si .NO c^» .oo ON m
o s

s 3
© uo u

E is*. 8 IS*: 1 ^C<2 -»c-
* 0," O O c &2 O O =

4_> I— * 4-1 4—1 4-> *-•
<s <

5>> oo V ^ On ^ N rn T*-

• »-• s s 1 8
k 4- u 4" CO 1 4 (J

-4-» "*- CO

c pi,

Ml o o a> O V ^ Q M)

3 1) 4-1 4— s
<-o uo >oo >^

to c k
ti 8* M a .-1 C

•o .
<L> c i c

5s ^ " 6
CCJ

>4H p C • CO

CO co (4 (4
CO I o (0

• 1—1 1 pi O w-,
&3 O O O ^O O o

o O 4-> 4— <*- * 2 ^2 .3
o

C r-H
*k.

». —
i 8 " "

a. aCI-.

V. a .

CO 1 N Cu
< § N < < 3 .

G £ N N <
< <: a,

n O * o <4-l
(4H Ml o o > o ! O < U O *a O J;

<*- 4— 4-* O 4—

e o o o 4-1 c
O

00 °° *->

o 4-1 . OO -

k 3 o e O^ «
u 00 •

* 8 „ s 8 M § _* CO
a)

o ^ ^3 s O
Ml o o U O <3 0) ^ o «

<- J-i 4-> 4-J 4-> *-> "J X!
*-> xi 4.J *-> *- T3

4-»
*->

CO
Pi h «* u i-

CO 4> 8 ro c rn tr.
m . CO fK

k
E C

3 c N c : N t)

O c s n Hi

C i

^ -2 C
O k

is 1 c —
o O 1-

^
X o o o O c O U o

4— O o o ^ O c
C 4-- o C 4-1 4-> O

c c c
o o O ON oo o c

>^ o o
s O 1-4^ k ^>

U k 8 ccj °> . s 5o
6 •d

(4 8 CO 6 ^ o 5 O* CO
CO rt k cO

T3 <
c 1 1 Ml CO u U

o C o o c O 1- Ml O 1 o
3 4-1 O 4-> 3 4-> •d *- — 4-4 4-1 «

G CO 2 cO AS
C 3

t^ .V© ?i U^~l k c^o N O
8* N N

ctf h)
8 IjT
o a t ^ £ ir\ ^ \/s 3 l/-\ k »-o 8 ^ >.

0, 4 < ^ ON ON ON On *§ O
I" £ n

o o i o ^ O O 6,3 O o ^
t-i 4-1 4—* 4-

«+-• 4-> > 4-1 4-J 00

o 3> CO . N ON 00 r t\ t^ j
LO

3 1; i^i to <*" -^
s g 1- 8 8 -^

k • be
k OC a, oo 00 jH oc 5 00 c OO* 8<X X

e fa

M| < o 1
4-> ^2 O sq O o * o ^ o £

4-1 4-1 4-1 4-« O

rt On . rv. iy~\ rt- M £ n

H as ,

3 8 ^
8 g

1 |
< o 02 O ^ -O O 1 o * s o

4-1 4-1 4-* 4-> L-t 2 L~>

cd
«+ ^ o~ t>. iv. NO
tj- t»- "<*- rh r^i ro CO

+-»
V .sO >>NO -'NO

ex a o
u 4-1 S © g o S O 1 O

k 4-> fa
CO < On ^ 00 ^ z sq O

<L> co co
0. LO u-> 14^ ur^ IS\ uo vr\

^__^ _i^ taiiiia ^SiliB



1 < » ' 1 •

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 257

• 00 O
« ". . to 8* «*>

*f a 1 8 •

CO V) 3 OC g.00 -Soo 3 00 O 00

C CU O 1 e
^ * ^2 &2 * ^

C/} 4-1 2 2 O O
4-t i-> 4->

P
£"> • l/-\ ,vo . t^ 00 00 ON ft O

V) 2: s to «2 m 8 ro . to
s 8 *? «* ^ 3 T

l^ 8 r^ 3 r^ i\ 8 r-
0, u i&5

^
3 J «^ e

V
V 4 O O &2 O O ^ O ^ O -3̂

4-1 4-4 4-1 4-1

N to -* «^i 3>^> . r- 00
cd it ^4" -«*

? 8 t 8 «i -*-
3 *"*d

. 3 "
i£ 3 vO JvO e vO "S,vo*

CO coco fe O ^ O ^O
J- ^

*-> *-> ^ 2 4-> 4-> «
3 LO ~so" p> r^ . 00 00 . ON O to

to rr
s ^ to '^ S to

s g ?' 3 £ s g
lo ^i

43 1^ 3 .^ a m -2f

* Id '
oi O ^ ^2 l

s u
65 O ^O =

i— *-> s 4-1 '-' «J
c* ,r *<

00 c 9" . ON Os ,_ N
1 to

s -- • (4 8 .

w 4- I-.' r*"
5i *

V 1 f 4-
at 1-.'

(4 0-,

* <D ^2 <U U O >> 1 ^
cd 5f

4-> 4-> 2
0) — O

^W
c

>> N i ^
>\ 00 N
C 8 s C 8 N C C

*>• 8 « n
c« 8 • a

3 to to 13 i .
aj

CO cd e O ^ to
H cs

•5—1 1 O
O O 03 O O ^O <4

Mm *
4—1 O 4-> i— 2 O 2 ^2 .3

.— *—

C . to 1^ .NO S
•uf« •**

u V. r-H C ft
8* * a '

< ti — 8 fH «
U a (X

. *Ih
C n < 3 • X

CO 1 i a. 8 N <
-i 0^ O < ^ O ^ O 4H

MH O -> ^ 2 ^2 U O « * g
* 4-1 O
to

6 M
3 *->

O d •d ^ 43
4 4-*
*~> 43 -d ^ 00 rt

so i ^
8

D 3 _' CO 3 .

M o\ a _ N
1 M 43 § - z

O *» u V
&2

2 O
43 43 ^O

n 4-1 0) ^ *->
i-i 4-> 43

r,
3 1

CO *-t 4
4J ON On (H 0O *-> 1

u u <u ON 1-
Q u

1- >-A)
cd U O 8 ^ C 10 C

V .
8 •

s C s — «- C O r-l c I
c 1 "* O 1 = n W

1- c
It c 3>

w u O u O 62 O c O O O
» S3 H *~j C O O O ^ O c

4- 4_>
!l!_ O

u c
a to rs to _, ^ _ C

. 00 O I^J" O
8 L/"N 0 3»

. 1 . "-A. tJ- ,• U1 3
h at <u » 23 . O
8 a ,

O* ^2 -2
•d 8 O cd S G~ u

03
h at i i O •

cd cd cd & CO »d ctf

•d 1 < CO

c O O CO ' 1- ^ u.
O * ~ ô

<L> 4-> C V c
4-1 4-) 4-1 1-. 2 3

O •d 3 4->

a CO u 43 cd

no
cd 2 .VO v.' to H £ O CO

8 to J
8 s -<1- £ -* -* ^

a « -*" 3 -^* ^"

a. 3 O ^ 8 § >,
•

oV On
< |

O I £ ON ON ^ ON"
^ J. e .

O ^ O O 62 O °°
i-> 4-> 4-1 4-> 4-1

t-t-l 4-> O0

O . OS t~>- -vo LT\ iy> LT\ „

f s to
3 •? 8 «^ «,• <o 5

OC "S,oo 3 OC 00 e oc -c
< * Wj

.a sn 1 O ^ O •^5 O^ >»
*-' S a

4_t i-> 4-> 4-> 4-1 4-> O
cd N . N OS 00 VO £NO

H to to N C^ ^
8 s | 8 8 N

.

1 < O &2 O O ^ O ^ O is s
i_) 4-> 4-J 4-> 4-»

cd
3 10 rh N o» 00

N N N N f4 pH P4
+-• s • •

nC .VO g.SO kNO -•NO

ex Is s 8
O § O
-> e ° •ts O S 1 O

u 4

CO < 1: u 63 ON
<1)

7* 'H pH ** "
fc "l LT>

to o-> un iv-i iy-\ LAi



2 -g ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.



» <> i »» • »

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 259

• NO s",^ . t^ 00 . 00 ON 0^
<

*! •» * ^> ^7" 8 -*•
<L> a 3 T 3 t 8 t

oc •£00 8,00 goc 5 00 CX>
p"

* 2 ^ u CCt O O * O
in 4-> 4-1 4-) 4->

3 u On . ON
CO a LO rn

^ 8*
8* ""• "1

• i °. 3

u •H 00 JS 00 § 00 £ OO loo
0" ^ O >j O O *l ^ O

<L> 4-J 4-i 4-1 4— 4-> ^ 2
<£ »— N t**. >> H" . IA

.

OS a 8 "* a - -a

iA, 5 l^ 1 ^ 8 r >
3 "

J3 J
C/2&2 fc *o

4-> 4-1 4-> ^ 2 ^2 4_> 1)

3 ON O ». ON efi

=0 r->
R 8 ,H

e
O a a f

. s .

O "8,no g^o S NO
k

* *>
O

N •-* 4-1 V2- ^2 u JS
&2 O ~

" <
>> t\ 00 OO ON

8 ^f"
•»-H 3 a i t ** • c

k 4- u (4 u 8 t
c a 0" 03 V 1 4-

^
3 O 1)

CU O ""i q M
a> 2 5 V O u

4~> 4-'

>>
1/-1 . I-/-N >> ti- n "1- Lf\

3i ^ • NO .
"3 tO C (4 a to >>

<L> c 3 C 8 3 "^ C 1 ^ §
s tO 03 8 •

(41 •̂ e to C 1 to 03
, to

e 83
o" O ^ 03

O V,
!>j

O O O ^
4— 4-1 2 ^ 2 ^2 .3

N —
. to

cd >i <o t4 8 N «
a N

(4 s " N
CU B S • E

CO i N s n s i .

<*< N N
&5 P s

<4H 1 13 «
I** O ^ O ^ O *

4— ^! O «Q O J3
4— 4-> ^2 «4H 2 4-1 c

6 n O O -2
K — M

a s 00 b on O g ON CO . ON CN
8 • ft

M u
M _ M 8 _ 3 _ M

N
4 U CU a

O 4) ^ 2 n O «<J O V 43 ^ «
*

p, X! i-> 4-J 4—»
c <-> u. *-> A 4.J 4-« *-> T3

w *-> +< —>
f-> ^^ •h NO OJ O «H

t-> nO NO . 1^ 2
u
Mi l/-\ U • 10

8 "^ 03 . LO u (T!

CU k
S ^ C . a

B _" It 8 •

IS"*3 0) C i-i C ~* •V c 2 - W
O c Is a c v. _.

u C 8

X £^ O u 02 O O O
4-1 O O O ^ O =

-J O
C c c 4

W~v c C
O tO . to c to tO ~/)

>> >>
u g a
a 3 a

O' 01 |o fe 8 d 8 O ^
03 OJ CO
•a ? < u

CU CO * "
c O O CO ^ Q̂

<L> 4-> C 4_> V O
4— C i-l 2 3

*n 4-J 4-1

O 3 CTJ

03 2 -">
cd . N O k <i O .0

a to
J! ^ 1 to ,3

3 to 8
8 to ^

E 8 •

On ON |oV
J2! fe £ on e On 1 ON-*3

O ^
J O ^ 65 O O ^

*
«+-i *-> 4-» *-• 00

.a To" ON . oc r\ r^ .
N N 09 *-< 8 _ "

p a fe 3 8* 8 "^
. ""I

JO v. oc a, 00 § oc 5 CO § OO*

3 < 1 O ^ ^
2 65 O * O &

4-J 4-1 4— 4-1 4-. O
cd >>

i a 8 ^ 8 "^ 3 4> "^t"
I"

i t̂

1 < O 3 O ^ 1
O ^ O ^ s

4-» "-> 4-> 4-» 4-1
cd

LO • /", rn to — ^H _
L/~l IV, LT\ u-i u-> LO o->

13 *-r\ 8 ^
•~ 8 a O § ° 2

1? O


284 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 285

The Difference Between Clock or Mean and Solar Time.

The time that I have used in calculating the Tables of the fore-

going Planetary Hours from Sunrise until two hours after Sunset, is what
is called the apparent time, the time given in the Almanac being what
is termed the mean time. Some modern authors of Astrology appear to

think that the mean time must be corrected by applying thereto the

equation of time given in the Almanac for the given day.

The old authors of works on Astrology gave what was termed the
solar time, or apparent time, but I have not followed the teachings of
the old authors in this respect.

The Equation of time, or the Sun's time as shown by a Sun dial,

and by setting the clock at 12 noon each day, when the Sun is exactly
on the meridian. The Sun's time agrees with the true or mean time
only on four days of the year. These are April 15, June 15, Sept. 1st

and Dec. 25th. See Table of Equation of Time on next page.

The greatest difference between Solar time and mean time, occurs on
Feb. 10th, when the clock is then 15 minutes fast. On May 14th
the clock is 4 minutes slow. On July 25th the clock is 6 minutes
fast, and on Nov. 2d the clock is 16 minutes slow.
The reason of the inequality in a solar day, and the mean or sidereal

time, is caused by the earth being in perihelion, or nearest the Sun on
or near the 31st of Dec, when it moves more rapidly around the Sun
than in any other part of its orbit ; but when in its aphelion, on or
near the 30th of June, it moves more slowly.
The only time it can possibly make much difference in the foregoing

Tables, will be near the 10th of Feb. , the 14th of May, the 21st of June,
and the 2d of Nov. ; at each of these times it is possible that the time
in the foregoing Planetary Hours may not exactly agree, or the plane-
tary hour may begin and end a few minutes sooner, or begin and end a

few minutes later than the time marked in the foregoing Tables, reckon-
ing by clock time, as the old authors used the solar time, and for fear

there might be some variation, and the student wishes to make observa-
tions as to whether the time agrees in all cases with the Planetary
Influences marked in the planetary hours, I have inserted a Table of
Equation of Time from Jan. 1st to the end of Dec, answering for

any year, by the use of which the student can make observations and
compare the mean or clock time with the solar time.

For several weeks near April 1 5 th, June 15th, Sept. 1st and Dec
25th, the tables of planetary hours and the clock time must agree.

The student, if he chooses to be very exact, can correct the clock time
with the solar time, by adding when the clock is slow the number
of minutes and seconds marked in the perpetual table ofequation of time
from April ltjth to June 14th, and from Sept. 1st to Dec 24th, and by
subtracting during the other parts of the year, that is : from Dec. 26th
to April 15 th, and from June 16th to Aug 3 1 st, he can make obser-
vations of the planetary influence, for instance, of Jupiter or Saturn,
marked in the table of planetary hours, and see if they agree near the
beginning and the end of said planetary hours.



1 1 1

2S6 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

After the student has made a number of observations near the beginning
or the end of the Planetary Hours, during or near Feb. loth, May 14th,

July 25th, Nov. 2d, and he finds from experience that the observation
and the planetary influence marked in the Perpetual Table of Planetary
Hours do not coincide, I would be glad if he would communicate with
me, giving the result of his observations. It is only by experiments and
observations that we can prove or disprove the Science of Astrology.
The foregoing tables of Planetary Hours from page 255 to 285 are

the first tables of that kind that has ever been calculated or published,
or at least that I have ever met with. Henry Cooley, on pages 266 and
267 of his " Key to Astrology," attempted to get up Tables of Planetary
Hours, but they are practically useless. Therefore this is the first time
that it could be tested by observation whether the " Solar Time " or
the " Mean or Clock Time " is the proper or right time, that the
Planetary Hours ought to be calculated for.

Perpetual Table of Equation of Time.
Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May. June- July. Aug. Sept Oct. Nov. Dec
Subt. Subt. Subt. Subt Add. Add. Subt Subt. Add. Add. Add. Add.
M. S. M. S. M. S. M. s. M. S" M- S. M. S. M. S. M. S. M- S. M. S. M. S.

I 345 I3-50 I2-36 4-1 3-0 2-30 3-28 6-5 O-3 IO-I6 16-18 IO-52 1

2 4-13 13-58 12-24 343 3-7 2-21 339 6-1 0-22 IO-35 16-I9 IO-29 2

3 4-41 14-4 12-11 3-25 3-14 2-12 3-5i 5-57 O-4I IO-54 16-29 IO-5 3

4 5-09 I4-IO 11-58 3-7 3-20 2-2 4-2 5-52 1-0 11-12 I9-I9 9-41 4
5 5-36 I4-16 II-48 2-49 3-26 I-5I 4-13 5-47 1-20 II-30 16-18 9-I7 5
6 6-03 I4-2O II-3I 2-32 3-3i I-4I 4-23 5-41 1-40 II-48 I6-I5 8-51 6

7 6-29 14-24 II-I7 2-14 3-35 I-30 4-33 5-34 2-0 12-5 l6-I2 8-26 7
8 655 14-27 II-2 1-58 3-39 I-I9 4-43 5-27 2-20 12-22 16-9 7-59 8

9 7-20 I4-29 IO-47 1-41 343 i-7 4-52 5-19 2-41 12-38 16-4 7-33 9
10 7-45 I4-3O IO-3I 1-24 3-46 0-56 5-1 5- 1 3-1 12-54 15-58 7-6 10
11 8-9 I4-30 IO-l6 1-8 3-48 0-44 5-9 5-2 3-22 13-10 15-52 6-38 11

IZ 8-32 14-30 IO-O 0-52 3-5o 0-32 5-i7 4-52 3-43 13-25 15-45 6-n 12

U 8-55 14-29 9-43 0-36 3-5i 0-19 5-24 4-42 44 13-39 15-37 5-42 13

14 9-17 14-27 9-27 0-21 3-51 0-7 5-31 4-31 4-25 13-54 15-28 5-14 14
15 9-39 14-24 9-9 0-5 3-51 Subt 5-38 4-20 4-47 14-8 I5-I8 4-45 15
16 10-00 14-20 8-52 Add. 3-5i 0-18 5-44 4-8 5-8 14-21 15-8 4-16 16

17 10-20 I4-I6 8-35 0-24 3-50 0-31 5-49 3-55 5 29 14-33 14-56 3-47 17
18 10-39 14-H 8-17 38 3 48 0-44 5-54 3-43 5-50 14-45 14-44 3-17 18

*9 10-58 I4-6 7-59 0-52 3-46 0-57 5-59 3-29 6-12 14-56 14-31 2-47 '9
20 11-16 13-59 7-41 i-5 3-43 I-IO 6-2 3-15 6-33 15-7 14-17 2-18 20
21 II-33 13-53 7-23 1-18 3-40 1-23 6-6 31 6-54 15-17 14-2 1-48 21

22 11-49 13-45 7-5 1 30 3-36 1-36 6-9 2-46 7-15 15-26 13 47 1-18 22
23 12-S 13-37 6-46 1-42 3-32 1-48 6-1 2-31 7-36 15-34 I3-30 0-48 ij

24 12-20 13-28 6-28 1-54 3-27 2-1 6-12 2-15 7-56 15-42 13-13 0-18 24
25 12-34 13 19 6-9 2-5 3-22 2-14 6-13 1-59 8-17 15-49 12-55 Subt ^5
26 12-47 13-9 5-51 2-15 3-16 2-27 6-14 1-43 8-37 15-56 12-36 0-42 26
27 13-0 12-58 5-32. 2-25 3-10 2-39 6-14 1-26 8-58 16-1 12-17 1-12 2-7

28 13-H 12-47 5-14 2-35 33 2-52 6-13 1-9 9-18 16-6 "-57 1-42 28
29 13-22 4-55 2-44 2-55 3-4 6-12 0-52 9-37 16-10 11-36 2-1 29
JO 13-32 4-37 2-52 2-47 3-16 6-10 0-34 9-57 16-14 11-14 2-41 3°
Ji 13-41 4 19 2-39 6-8 0-16 16-16 3-10 3i

|

Different Methods of Measuring Time by the Heavenly Bodies.
Although the earth when in its perihelion travels faster than when it is in its aphelion, yet

during both of these periods, it takes the same time to make a revolution on its axis. It has been
observed with telescopes when pointed to any particular star in the heavens, that at the end of
exactly 24 hours, that star will pass a particular line, across the end of the telescope, and it has been
known to do so for several hundred years, without any variation. That time is called "Sidereal,
Mean, or Clock Time '' But as the earth is moving in its orbit around the Sun it has to travel

four minutes more in the 24 hours to reach the same point, and that is called " apparent tin "
e ;

but on account of the Earth being in its perihelion, it travels faster than at other times and conr<--

quentlv Sun time is not uniform, and time measured in that manner is called " Solar Time
when deducting the four minutes from apparent time. Formerly it was customary to have a " Sun-
dial" in each churchyard, to find exactlv when the Sun arrives in the" Meridian, "and thev set their
clocks for that time ; but since th°y have been able to measure time more accurately by clocks
and by observation of the fixed stars bv telescopes. What is called " Sidereal or Mean Time " is

the time they now use for measuring the rising, culminating and setting of the Sun.



ELEMENTS OF ASTR.OLOCY. 287

ELECTIONS, OR CHOOSING A FORTUNATE TIME
TO COMMENCE NEW BUSINESS, REMOVAL

OR REMARKABLE CHANGES.
621 What is termed an election, is the choosing or select-

ing a fortunate time to commence an undertaking.
Besides choosing a fortunate planetary hour to commence

any new business or undertaking, it is always advisable for
the native to have his own nativity calculated, and see first

whether he is fortunate in that particular line of business
that he wishes to engage in. This can be seen or pointed
out by the positions of the planets at the time of his birth. If

the nativity denies success in that particular business, it

is impossible to be successful by simply choosing a fortu-
nate planetary hour, or making what is termed an election

;

still he would be more fortunate by choosing a fortunate
hour and making a good election, than he would by com-
mencing the business in a haphazard manner, and without
any regard to Planetary Influences.

622 There are special rules in Astrology that have been
known and have been acted upon, and continued to be made
use of for thousands of years, by almost all civilized nations,
although within the last two or three hundred years these
rules have been very much neglected by the people in Europe
and the United States yet there are people in these countries

;

who imitate the ancient astrologers, and by doing so, they
make themselves ridiculous.

623 The people talk about the superstition of Astrology.
But what is termed laying the corner stone of a church, or
any other building is real superstition. The ancients called
it the laying of the first stone, and they chose fortunate
planetary influence to do it under, and selected a fortunate
time for turning the sod, or breaking the ground previous to
laying the first stone.

624 Andrew H. Green imitated the ancients by turning
the sod for the commencement of the bridge that is to cross
the Hudson River; and Count De Lesseps turned the sod
for the commencement of the Panama Canal in Central
America, but neither of them attempted to select a fortunate
time for that purpose. See page of Appendix.
The following are a few choice rules for the choosing or

electing fortunate times for any particular business. These
rules are very old and are based on sound Astrological prin-
ciples.



2 88 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Election for Laying the First Stone of a Building.

625 The old astrologers tell us to begin no building with
the Moon in Pisces or Scorpio, having south latitude de-
scending, for if you do it will soon fall. The most fortunate
time to begin any new building, such as turning the sod,
driving the first pile or laying the first stone, is when the
Moon is in Aquarius, or when Aquarius ascends, and the
Moon is in good aspect to the ascendant, and the fortunate
planets, Jupiter and Venus, are in good aspect to the degree
ascending.

Electionfor Buying or Renting a House, Lands, Tenements, etc.

626 The first thing to be attended to in buying or renting
houses, etc., is to make as strong as possible the lord of the
fourth house in the nativity, and also the fourth house in the
horoscope of the election, together with the Moon ; also let
the Moon apply by a sextile or trine to the lord of the fourth
and the second house in the election horoscope ; also let as
many of the significators that are lords of the fourth, tenth,
first, second and seventh houses, be in reception if possible
and in good places, both in the nativity and in the horoscope,
and let a fixed sign be on the ascendant of the election.

Election on Removalfrom one House to Another.

627 The change of habitation, house or lodgings, etc.. is

best done when the Moon is in a fixed sign increasing in
light, and at the same time in good aspect with fortunate
planets in the fourth house, or ascendant of the election;
the lord of the second house should, if possible, be strong,
above the earth, and in sextile or trine to the lord of the
seventh and the eighth houses, for that is the place the party
must go to have profit or gain, and if the lord of the seventh
or eighth houses are afflicted, then he goes or removes to his
loss or misfortune.

Election for Entering into new Business, Office or

Employment.

628 First, let the Sun or Moon be in their dignities or at
least not afflicted by Saturn, Mars or Uranus. Second, let

Jupiter be in the ascendant, and the Sun in the midheaven
if possible. Third, let the seventh and second houses be
strong and fortunate, for one signifies money and the other
counsels for the native's assistance ; for if these houses are
afflicted it shows great damage to the native. Let Jupiter
and Venus be strong if possible, and in good aspect in the
election horoscope.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 289

Election for Commencing a Trade or Profession.

629 Let the cusp of the tenth house in the nativity be the
ascendant in the horoscope of the election, and let the lord
of the ascendant and the Moon in the election, not only be free
from affliction, but in sextile or trine to the lords of the
second and tenth houses, and if possible let the fortunate
planets Jupiter and Venus be in the ascendant, or the mid-
heaven or in an angle of the election, and the unfortunate
planets Saturn and Mars cadent, or in the third, sixth or
twelfth houses.

Election for Marriage.
630 In all marriages the ascendant stands for the man, and

the seventh house for the woman ; if the fortunate planets
are in the ascendant, the marriage is best for the man, but
if the fortunate planets are in the seventh house, the woman
receives the most advantage by marriage. In all marriages
do not let the Moon be combust, that is in conjunction with
the Sun, on the marriage day, for that signifies death of the
man within two years after marriage; nor applying to com-
bustion or new Moon, for that signifies an ill end for the
parties getting married. It is very unfortunate in marriages
for the Moon to apply to ether Saturn or Mars, though the
aspect be ever so good, as there will be neither peace nor love
between them. In all marriages let the Moon increase in light,
or be going from the new Moon to the full Moon. Let the
Moon be increasing in motion and have no evil aspect to the
Sun, nor any aspect at all to either Saturn or Mars. Venus
is the one general significatrix, or the chief significator of hap-
piness in all marriages, therefore it is best to let the Moon
apply by good aspect to Venus. If the lord of the ascendant is

weak, and the lord of the seventh is strong in the seventh
house and a commanding planet, and in good aspect to Mars,
the woman will domineer over her husband ; let not Saturn or
Mars be in the seventh house, in any marriage for that makes
the woman very ill tempered, and generally have poor health.
Also Saturn, Mars or Uranus in the ascendant in a marriage
makes the man very cross, ill tempered and generally he
has poor health,

631 In choosing an election for the marriage of men, let
the Moon and Venus be strong and fortunate, and in good
positions in the horoscope, and in good aspect to Jupiter,
he being the author of peace and wealth. Also let him be in
mutual reception with Venus, and in fortunate aspect to the
lord of the ascendant. Let the seventh house and the
Moon, and also the ascendant be free from affliction in such



2 QO ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

signs as favor marriage, as Taurus, Libra, Sagittary, Aquar-
ius and Pisces. In making an election for the marriage of
women, you must notice the seventh house the Sun and Mars,
as you did the ascendant, the Moon and Venus for a man's
marriage.

Election for Proposing Marriage.

632 In Proposing Marriage do not let the Moon apply to a
retrograde planet, no matter whether the aspect be good or
evil, or the planet a fortunate or an unfortunate one, unless
you wish the engagement to be broken off.

633 If the Moon applies to Jupiter or Venus and they are
retrograde, then something occurs to break off the marriage,
and both the lady and gentleman are very sorry for
it; if to an evil aspect of either of these planets retro-
grade, then the breaking off of the engagement will be
attended with much unhappiness to both parties. If the
Moon applies by good aspect to either Saturn or Mars, and
they are retrograde, this denotes that the engagement
will end in a law-suit, or a breach of promise suit, or
one of the parties will go away, and will not return.
But if the Moon applies to an evil aspect of either Saturn or
Mars, aud that planet is retrograde, then the breaking off of
the engagement is certain to result in a law-suit for breach
of promise ; or should they marry, then a divorce will result,
attended with much sensation.

634 In all engagements or promises of marriage, let Venus
be in the ascendant, or midheaven, and well aspected, and
in some of her dignities. If possible let the Moon be sepe-
rating from a good aspect of Jupiter, and making a good
aspect to Venus unafiiicted, and both direct and swift in mo-
tion.

635 Do not let an evil planet be in either the ascendant or
seventh house, or in the eleventh or fifth houses. Let Saturn
and Mars be cadent, and in no aspect to any planet, and let

the Moon have no aspect to an unfortunate planet if it can be
avoided.

Election for Introduction to Ladies or Gentlemen.

636 If a lady wishes to be introduced to a gentleman,
choose the hour of Jupiter or the Sun, and let the Moon apply
by sextile or trine aspect to Jupiter or the Sun, and do not let

Saturn or Mars be in the ascendant, midheaven or seventh
house.

637 If a gentleman wishes to be introduced to a lady,
choose the hour of Venus or the Moon, and let the Moon



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 29I

apply by good aspect to Venus, and let Venus be in the
ascendant, eleventh, tenth or seventh houses, and both Saturn
and Mars cadent.

Election for Going on a Journey.

638 In beginning a journey choose that day and hour in
which the Moon and the lord of the ascendant are in good
aspect in the nativity. Let the eleventh and third houses,
with their lords, be fortunate. Watery signs are best for
sailing or travelling by water, but fixed signs for inland
journeys.

639 Likewise the kind of business must be considered
which causes the native to take the journey, for if he goes
to a king, president or governor, let the tenth house of the
nativity ascend or be on the ascendant of the election, and
let the planets that govern the persons he carries the errand
to be strong and in good aspect to the lord of the ascendant
or the Moon in the election, as the Moon is a general signifi-

cator of all journeys, and let it be fortunate and free from
affliction, and in good aspect with fortunate planets, or let

the unfortunates be cadent, but not in the third or ninth
houses.

640 The eighth house shows what will happen to the
traveller when he comes to the end of his journey, and the
seventh house what will happen to him on the day he re-
turns, and the second the profit on his return home ; so these
houses and their lords must be fortunately placed that suc-
cess may attend the journey and it end well.

Election for Navigation, or Going on a Voyage.

641 Start on a voyage if you can, when fortunate planets
are in angles or in the ninth house, and do not let the Sun or
Moon be afflicted by Saturn or Mars, neither let Saturn or
Mars be in the third or ninth houses.

642 Never start on a journey in the hours of either Saturn
or Mars, for they show either loss, sickness, unhappiness or
imprisonment.

643 The Dragon's Tail in the third or ninth houses indi-

cates cheating or robbery on the journey.

644 Do not let Saturn be in the ascendant, nor a Fiery
sign on the ascendant, for then there will be a watery sign
on the eighth house, and there will be great danger of
drowning or the ship going to the bottom, therefore com-
mence your voyage, if possible, in the hours of Jupiter or
Venus, and let the Moon apply by good aspect to one or both
of these planets.



29 2 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Election for Collecting a Debt, or Money that is Owing.
645 Be sure to fortify that planet that is lord of the ascend-

ant in the nativity, and also Jupiter, for, he is a natural sig-
nificator of wealth and substance, and if possible let the lord
of the ascendant of the nativity or Jupiter be placed in the
second house, or essentially dignified, and in good aspect,
and position in the horoscope of election ; free from affliction
and in good aspect to Jupiter and Venus or lord of the second
house. Let the party if possible, go to collect the money
in the hours' of Jupiter or Venus.
Elections to make Friendship Between Brothers, Sisters,

Kindred, Neighbors, etc.

646 On renewing or making Friendship between rela-
tions and neighbors; choose a time when the lord of the
ascendant in the nativity is in good aspect to fortunate
planets in the election, and if you can let it also apply to
some good aspect to the lord of the third house in the elec-
tion, and in good aspect, or in reception, and well posited in
good places in the election, either of these planetary influen-
ces will make a good election for producing harmony or
friendship of brothers, sisters, kindred or neighbors, etc.

647 The same rules will apply for the election of friend-
ship of father, mother, friends, wife, husband, sweetheart or
wife's or husband's brothers or sisters, etc. If the student
makes use of the fourth house for the father, the tenth house
for the mother, the eleventh house for friends, the seventh
house for husband, wife, sweetheart or partners, and the
ninth house for wife's or husband's brothers or sisters, etc.

Elections for Hiring Servants or Employees.

648 When you hire a servant or an employee, be sure and
let the Moon be strong and in good aspect to fortunate^planets.
Let it also be in good aspect to Jupiter or Mars, if it is

a male that you are employing ; if it is a female, then let the
Moon make a good aspect of Venus and free from all manner
of affliction, especially of Saturn or Mars, and let the lord of
the ascendant, or of the second house in the nativity, be in
good aspect to the lord of the sixth house in the election, or
let the fortunate planets Jupiter or Venus, be in the sixth
house of the nativity, or in good aspect to the lord of the
ascendant, and if possible let the Moon be either in Taurus,
Gemini or Virgo.
Some Choice Rules or Aphorisms for Election, Relating

to Several Undertakings.

649 In all journeys the greatest affliction of a'planet is to be
perigrine or out of all Essential Dignities, and retrograde.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.
293

650 It is bad in journeys to have Saturn or Mars in the
third or ninth house, but much worse to have them, or either
of them in the second house.

651 The lord of the ninth or third house in the first, the
journey will be successful, and if strong and well dignified
and well aspected, all the better.

652 In all journeys look to the Moon, for she is the general
significatrix of all journies.

653 The Moon increasing in light and in good aspect to
the Sun, assist or help in journies.

654 When a ship sets sail, if Saturn ascends in Pisces, the
ship is in danger of being cast away, especially if Mars afrlicts

Saturn by an evil aspect.

655 If you go to a Prince, King, Governor or President,
let a Fiery sign ascend, and let the Sun be in good aspect
with Jupiter or Venus.

656 Those who go to war ought to consider coming home
safe. To gain this end let the Sun, Jupiter, Venus or
Dragon's Head be strong and in good aspect in the ascendant
or else they may fail of it.

657 If Saturn be in the ascendant he will be overcome with
fear and will not fight but return home again a coward. If
Mars is there he will either die in battle or be dangerously
wounded. If Saturn and Mars are both in the ascendant, you
may be confident that he will never return. If Saturn or
Mars or even one of them is in the tenth house, he will be
taken a prisoner, especially if the lord of the ascendant is in
the twelfth house, and more especially if it is afflicted in the
twelfth.

Elections for Duels and Law-suits.

658 Judge the challenger; or the one who commences a
law-suit by the ascendant, and so vary the houses accordingly.

659 Judge the opponent by the seventh house, and so vary
the houses as before, the tenth being as fourth house, and
the fourth as tenth house.

660 It is not good to fight a duel when the lord of the
ascendant is in the eighth house, (or house of death,) for
then there is great danger of death.

661 The assailant or aggressor, or the one who begins the
law-suit, always loses the battle, or suit, if the lord of the
ascendant be retrograde or combust or in conjunction with
the Sun ; but if the lord of the seventh house be afflicted in

a similar manner the opponent is beaten. In a duel or battle

when the Moon, Saturn and Mars are joined together or in

evil aspect, there will be great effusion of blood.



2 94 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

662 If any one goes to a Governor or President, let the Moon
be in the ascendant, in sextile or trine to the Sun, in the tenth
nouse in the election. But if one goes to a clergyman,
bishop or judge, let the Moon be in good aspect or conjunc-
tion with Jupiter, even a square is not so bad, if there is a
reception by dignity, between the Moon and Jupiter.

663 If any one O oes to see an old man let the Moon apply
to the sextile or triae aspect of Saturn, from good places
or houses in the election; angles are of the most influence,
especially the ascendant or midheaven.

664 In managing business or attending to any of the affairs
of women, let the Moon apply by sextile, trine or conjunction
to Venus, and do not let Venus be afflicted, if possible.

665 In dealing with book-keepers, printers, publishers or
lawyers, let the Moon apply by good aspect to Mercury.

666 If you have dealings with an officer or a soldier, or a
machinist, or surgeon, let the Moon apply to a good aspect
of Mars; but if you intend to have a surgical operation per-
formed, do not let the Moon apply to any aspect of Mars,
even if it is a good aspect, as there will be great danger of
fever or inflamation setting in after the operation.

667 If you make an application to a person who deals in
old furniture or old books, or anything connected with the
occult, let the Moon apply to a good aspect of Uranus.

668 In addition to the above rules, if possible, attend to the
business in the right planetary hour, or in the hours of the
planets ruling the business or the kind of persons above men-
tioned, or ruling the persons you make application to.*

* The above rules of elections are tlie most concise and perfect I have ever met with,
having been culled from some of the oldest authorities that have written on the subject. In my own
practice I have found them reliable, and have put them to the test thousands of times, and
especially connected with marriages and business undertakings, where I have been able to observe
the time of the event and afterwards notice the result.

On account of the time of marriages being published in the newspapers. I have been able to
apply those rules in many thousands of instances, and have observed their effect? afterwards.

The next chart of the Heavens that I shall give, is the time of marriage of Mr. Edward and
Mrs. Lillie Langtry. The time of marriage was given to the reporters by both parties. By ob-
serving the chart the student will see that it was certainly a very unfavorable time judging, by the
rules of Astrologv, for any person to get married ; even the time of that marriage was nor as fortu-
nate as that of Nellie Grant, Gen. Grant's daughter., who was married in Washington. D. C

Mr. Stanley, the African explorer got married under very unfortunate aspects. And he got
out of a sick bed to get married. None of these parties have lived happy married lives. Of
course each must have had very unfortunate aspects in their horoscope for marriage, and especially
Mr. and Mrs. Langtry. The rules and principles of Astrology, when they are violated, are just as
absolute in their afBietion of pain or punishment, as are any other laws of nature. If these laws
are violated, the parties must expect to suffer the penalty.

A short time ago, a lady friend of ours was going to be married, and the time was set on a
certain evening; mv daughter looked in the ephemeris and saw that the aspect was unfavorable
for marriage on that evening, and advised them to change the time. The lady and gentleman went
to the minister to appoint another time to be married. The minister pressed them fo inform
him why they wanted the time changed ; after they had told him, they said they thought the mini-
ster would never get through laughing. Had the minister gone to any person to talk on religion
and had he mentioned the name of Jesus Christ to them, and those parties had commenced
1 uighing, and continued to do so for half an hour or more, it is natural to suppose he would have
come to the conclusion that the party had gone insane, or that God would strike them dead for
such levity.



Elements of "astrology. 295

From the "New York Recorder"June 20th, 1896.

HOROSCOPE OF EX-GOVERNOR WM. McKINLEY.
Hon. William McKinley was nominated for the Presidency on the

evening of June 18th, 1896, and on June 20th the following article

appeared in the " New York Recorder," "The Pittsburg Dispatch/'
and "The Peoria Journal."

"This gentleman, according to his biography, was born Jan. 29th,

184.3, m Trumbull Co., Ohio, and according to his description, which
was given of him in the various newspapers, there is no doubt he first

saw the light about 2 a. m. on that day.
" If so he was born under the planet Mars, in the sign Scorpio, rising,

in close sextile to Saturn, with Scorpio on the ascendant, and also

Venus rising in the second house. If the above time of birth is correct

he had all the planets under the earth, except Mars, when he was born.
" The above horoscope would describe a person near the medium

height, with dark hair, slightly full face, high, round forehead, slightly

sanguine complexion, and of a rather straight or proud walk. In some
respects he has a fortunate horoscope, but has had much to contend
with. He has not a strong constitution and there is great danger that



296 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

he will not live to be old. * * He is certainly a person a
long way above the average in intellect, and ought to make a very sharp
lawyer. He is fortunate in marriage, but unfortunate in children.

" The time when he was nominated was certainly very favorable, the
most fortunate for the nomination of a candidate for over 30 years,
and I have examined all the maps of the heavens for the times of
presidential nominations for more than that period. At the time he
received the majority of the votes, 5.17 p. m., June 18th, 1896, St.

Louis time, the Moon was in the midheaven, and just making a good
aspect of Jupiter, (Jupiter is lord of the ascendant.) Mercury, Nep-
tune, Venus and the Sun were all setting, and Saturn and Uranus
rising. It is a much more fortunate time than when Grover Cleveland
was nominated, June 23d, 1892, at 0.03 a. m., at Chicago. Also a

more fortunate time than when Benj. Harrison was nominated in 1888.

Chart of che Heavens for the Time of Birth of Hon. William McKinley

Jan. 29th, 1843, at 2 a. m.
" It was also a fortunate time when the Republican Convention opened,

June 1 6th, 1896, at 0.20 P. M. The time it opened is certainly

more fortunate than it will be at noon July 7th, 1896, when the Demo-
cratic Convention will open. There is no question in my mind but

that Mr. McKinley will be elected President, although he will have a

marked evil aspect during the early part of Oct., 1896, but it is more
probable he will have poor health, or something may go wrong in the

campaign which will almost threaten his defeat. That aspect will be

very similar to the one which occured in Grover Cleveland's horoscope

in Oct., 1888, which caused his defeat through the British minister at

Washington advising Englishmen to vote for President Cleveland, as

English interests would be best served by his election. *



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 297

"Mr. McKinley's horoscope indicates danger of assassination nearly
as much as Gen. Garfield's or Abraham Lincoln's. Should he live

through the Fall of 1897, there is nothing to threaten his life for some
years, but he will have a very troublesome period all the time he is

President. I think there is no question but that he will be elected."

[President McKinley's mother died after a short illness, about Dec. 10th,

1897. The evil aspects referred to above, instead of causing the sickness
or death of the President, resulted in the death of his mother.]

From the " The Baltimore American" July 26th, 1806.

WHAT THE STARS TELL.
" Prof. Broughton, the Astrologer, says the verdict of the planets,

judged by the rules of Astrologv, seems to be that the next president of
the United States will be the apostle of protection and gold—William
McKinley, of Ohio. Mr. Broughton in 1888 predicted the defeat of
Grover Cleveland and his election in 1892, and recently has devoted
himself to horoscopes of Major McKinley and Mr. Bryan. He con-
sented to make public the result of his researches.

"Here is a chart," said he, "giving the positions of the celestial

bodies on Jan. 29, 1843, the day given as the date of birth of William
McKinley. After careful study, I have arrived at the conclusion that

he was born at about two in the morning, when the Zodiacal sign

Scorpio was at the Eastern horizon and Mars was just rising. You will

notice that eight of the nine planets were below the Earth, Mars alone
appearing above the horizon. This indicates that all Mr. McKinley has

gained has been dearly bought, and success has come to him only after

many rebuffs and by dint of dogged perseverance. Energy is written in

every line of the portraits published of him, and the position of Mars
bears the same significance. It is a spur to pride and ambition, forcing

him ever onward and to greater heights.
" Intellectually Major McKinley is far above the average. Mercury,

the ruler of the mind, being in the intellectual sign Aquarius, and in

benefic sextile aspect to Venus, and the Moon in semi-sextile aspect to

Venus and Mercury, are all auguries of breadth, depth and height of
mental capacity. If I knew nothing of either protection or free trade,

and I knew that a man with these horoscopic influences advocated pro-
tection, I would be willing to accept his judgment as final. I should say
that Mr. McKinley was a logical and forceful speaker, writer and thinker.

His career shows that he has been able to impress his followers with his

personality, and I am inclined to believe that he will impress the voters
in November as few men in history have done. The conjoined strength
of Jupiter and the Sun in his horoscope is a potent force for honor.
He is an honorable man, if ever man were honorable. There will be a
vein of secretiveness in him that will give rise to suspicion, and his

enemies may build many stories upon it. Law was undoubtedly an
excellent profession for Major McKinley ; but as a teacher and writer
upon scientific subjects he would have made a successful bid for fame.
Probably life would have presented fewer obstacles, had he chosen



298 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

science, instead of politics, and his path would have been easier as he
climbed to success. He has achieved all he has had reason to hope for,

and he will not be disappointed in this final stride towards the pinnacle
of American ambition,

" Marriage has had a prominent part in the life of Mr. McKinley.
Previous to his acceptance of the yoke his heart must have been wrung
upon more than one Hint-hearted belle, and I fear he carries yet the

traces of early shocks of love's battery. The goal passed, and once em-
barked upon the sea of matrimony, his mate would be, as I understand
she has been, a most acceptable compagon du voyage. Not many
children would come their way, and I fear the close position of the Sun
to Jupiter (Jupiter indicating his wife) would wreck her health.

He will not hold money any length of time. Venus in the house of

wealth is good Jupiter, lord of the house of wealth, is another benefit,
;

but Saturn in the house of weak! is evil. He will make and lose more
than one fortune.

"Life has had much in it for Mr. McKinley. That he has received
more than the average man is due to his perseverance and talent. He
must guard his health in October, else he will be ill. Of course, the

strain of campaign work will be severe; but, besides that, he will have
some complaint affecting the kidneys. Mrs. McKinley may be very ill

at that time also."

HON. WILLIAM BRYAN'S HOROSCOPE.
J.

"I have not decided upon the time of day Mr. Bryan was born, and
have, therefore, only erected a chart for noon of the day given as his

birthday—March 19th, i860. The positions of the planets in this

chart indicate a man of many very excellent qualities, but not a man of

the caliber of Mr. McKinley. Mercury, ruler of the mind, is in the



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 299

cardinal sign Aries. Mercury is in square aspect to Jupiter, and in trine

aspect to Saturn. Both of these aspects give power, but not depth. I

would define Mr. Bryan's mental qualities as moderately strong, ingen-

ious, active and fanciful, though frequently having a sombre cast. He
will not leave behind him work that will compare with the solid crea-

tions of mental genius brought into the world by Mr. McKinley. Mr.
Bryan's clever strokes as an orator must be thoroughly prepared. I

doubt their spontaneous creation in the heat of rhetorical picture-build-

ing. Judging by this chart, I believe that Mr. Bryan is aiming too high.

-Hi?
Chart of the Heavens for 12 O'clock Noon, on the Day of Birth of

Hon. William J. Bryan, March 19th i860. Illinois.

It is true that Jupiter, the great benefic, is in its exaltation ; but that

and the sextile aspect of Mars and the Moon are not sufficient to raise

a man to the presidency. That Mr. Bryan has risen so high in political

life can only be explained by the fact that he must have exercised great
ingenuity, and his wife must have added not a little to his force. A
man without much physical strength can raise great weights by the aid
of ingenious contrivances; but his results cannot be compared to those
of ingenuity and strength combined. Mr. Bryan has accomplished great
results, but I doubt if his results in the coming campaign will be equal
to one-half his aspirations.

" Mr. Bryan's married life is too well known tor me to remark upon.
His wife is described by Mars in Saggitarius. She is taller than he,

straight and erect in stature, light or auburn hair ; ambitious, proud, but
withal a most lovable woman with both eyes on the main chance.

" A comparison of the horoscopes of McKinley and Bryan leads me
to one conclusion : The country would fare better under Mr. McKinley
than it would under the man from Nebraska. At the time of the elec-



3°° ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

tion in November, Major McKinley will have several good influences

operating in his horoscope, which will aid him greatly. Mr. Bryan
will suffer at that time from an opposition of Mars to its own place, and
an exact square of Saturn to its own place in his horoscope. These influ-

ences alone would indicate Major McKinley's election, even though the

horoscopes were reversed and Mr. Bryan's were superior."

THE TWO CONVENTIONS.
" I have here," the Professor continued, " charts erected for the exact

minutes the nominations were made in the conventions. McKinley's
occured June 18th, at 5.44 P. M., and Bryan's July 10th, at 3.15 P. M.
The time of any event in a nation's history can be judged in Astrology
the same as if it was a time of birth of a human being—its duration, its

influence upon the country, its success or failure, and the collateral parts

which bear upon those engaged or ruled by it.

" When Mr. McKinley was nominated, the planets smiled upon the

Republican convention. The benefic Jupiter was ruler of the ascending
sign Sagittarius. The Moon, ruler of the common people, was approach-
ing a good aspect to Jupiter. Several other good influences are discern-

able, and all point to success.
" The chart for the nomination of Mr. Bryan is far from good. Mars

is lord of the ascending sign Scorpio, and is weakly placed below the

earth in a cadent house, and approaching a square aspect of Jupiter.

Saturn and Jupiter are in square. The Moon is less than a degree past

a conjunction of the Sun which is a very evil affliction, and it is approach-
ing a trine of the retrograde planet Uranus in the ascendant at the time
of the nomination, which is another very evil affliction. I fail to find

any saving clauses in this review. Mr. Bryan will not retain his

following, and his success cannot be found in this chart."

Further Remarks on the Horoscopes of President McKinley and
Hon. William J. Bryan, and their Nominations,

Written in January, 1898.

The general reader has no idea of the difficulties and obstacles the
Astrologer has to overcome in writing or publishing anything in con-
nection with the science or making predictions, as it is next to impossible
to get the time of birth of any prominent or leading man or woman.
For instance when the Hons. Grover Cleveland and James G. Blaine were
nominated and each desiring to be elected President, a newspaper editor
of this city made application direct to both gentlemen for their time
of birth, but they positively denied any knowledge of the time of day
they were born, and said they did not know there was any person living

who could tell yet afterwards Mr. James G. Blaine, when
; he wished

to consult me through a mutual friend, could then give the exact time
when he was born, and sent it to me in order that I might erect a proper
chart of the heavens.

Within a short time after the nomination of the Hon. William
McKinley, a lady friend of mine, and also a relation and intimate friend



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 3d

*«*

Chart of the Heavens for the Time Hon. William McKinley was
Nominated for President, at St. Louis, Mo., at 5.44 P. M.,

June 18th, 1896.

Chart of the Heavens for the Time of the Nomination for the President

of Hon. William J. Bryan, at Chicago, July 10th, 1896, at 3.15 P. M.



"

3©2 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

of Mr. McKinleyi's private secretary, wrote to the secretary requesting
him to obtain Mr. McKinley's time of birth. He wrote back refusing
to give it, and stated that a number of people had made application to

Mr. McKinley for the same information, but they had all been refused.

When the time of birth is not known, or it has been refused, the only
way we have ot rinding the time in order to erect a chart of the heavens,
is to get a good likeness of the individual, and also ascertain the da es of
some of the leading events of their life on which to base calculations,

and find if the positions of the planets correspond with those events, and
also with their personal appearance. By this means I have erected the
horoscopes of the Hons. Wm. McKinley and Wm. Bryan.

J.

I procured a picture of Mr. McKinley, and looked carefully at it to
get some idea of his personal appearance, and then comparing the vari-

ous positions of the heavenly bodies, for the day of his birth, I found
that no other time would answer so well for describing him, as when the
latter part of the sign Scorpio was on the ascendant, and Mars a few
degrees above the cusp of the degree rising. In that respect he has a

horoscope similar to that of Napoleon Bonaparte, who had Scorpio on
the ascendant; but in Napoleon's horoscope, Mars, lord of that sign

was in Virgo, near the cusp of the 1 1 th house. Napoleon had Jupiter in

Scorpio on the ascendant in the same position that Mr. McKinley has
Mars, and it is said that President McKinley has quite a resemblance to

the "Little Corporal.

In regard to the time of birth of William J. Bryan, I find no position

of the planets would so well describe him as near the middle of the sign

Cancer rising, with Jupiter in the ascendant, and the Moon, his ruling
planet, on the cusp of the 9th house, in Aquarius, in sextile to Mars,
just set. In looking at his portrait we find that he has a real Jupiter
forehead, with the hair receding from the temples. He has also a Jupiter
nose, eyes and mouth. Mr. Bryan is what we term a Jupiter and Moon
person, whereas Mr. McKinley is what we term a real Mars man. Of
the two Mr. Bryan has a more fortunate horoscope, if we refer to pure
luck, and he will meet with fewer reverses in fortune than President
McKinley. He has also a mind that spurs him on to great energy and
perseverance, although he does not have the depth of intellect of Presi-

dent McKinley yet Mr. Bryan will come up again, and is bound to
;

make his mark, as he has the Moon in a fixed sign in exact sextile to

Mars, the most active and business planet there is in the heavens.
A number of Astrologers were mistaken in predicting that Bryan

would be elected, as they thought Mr. Bryan had the most fortunate

horoscope of the two, but at the same time they did not take into

consideration the time that each was nominated. I predicted and had
it published in the newspapers within two days after Mr. McKinley's
nomination, that he was certain to be elected, as from the position of the

planets I judged his nomination to be more fortunate than any presiden-

tial nomination that had been made during the last 40 years, or since I

came to this country, and probably there will not be such a fortunate

position of the planets at the time of a presidential nomination for the



"

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 3O3

next hundred years as there was when President McKinley received the
largest number of votes at the convention in St. Louis. At that time
Jupiter was on the cusp of the 9th house, and lord of the ascendant, and
the Moon in the midheaven coming to its sextile ; these were remarkably
fortunate aspects, and had Saturn not been in the 1 2th house near a

square of Jupiter, he would almost have had a walk over, but that
aspect caused his party to work hard and spend a great deal of money to
secure his election.

Possibly there will never be another presidential nomination made just

at the new Moon, as it was when Mr. Bryan was nominated, and if the
democratic party at Chicago had had any idea of planetary influence,

they certainly would not have nominated a candidate at that unfortunate
time, unless they had intended him to be crowned with a crown of

thorns, and crucified on a cross of silver.

The old Astrologers have an aphorism which says "
: Anything com-

menced at the New Moon comes to naught. " Therefore the democrats
could not have chosen a more unfortunate time for the nomination,
according to the rules of Astrology. And these rules are like the " Laws
of the Medes and Persians which cannot be altered.

In addition to the evil influence of the new Moon at the nomination
of Mr. Bryan, the evil planet Saturn was just rising, a little above the
ascendant, in almost exact square to Jupiter in the 9th house, and
Uranus was in conjunction with the " Part of Fortune " in the ascendant,
which are certainly serious afflictions for any public or private under-
taking whatever.

It was the want of money that defeated Mr. Bryan, which is shown
plainly by the " Part of Fortune " being so seriously afflicted. The Moon
was leaving a conjunction of the Sun, and applying to the conjunction
of Venus, and all three planets were in trine to Uranus in the ascendant,
which indicated that the women would be his friends, and had the ladies

had a vote it is possible that Mr. Bryan might have defeated his

opponent, but " The Stars fought in their courses against" Bryan.

It is often very difficult for the student to acquire the knowledge of
judging almost instantly of two charts of the heavens, and decide which
is the strongest and which is the weakest one. Mr. Sibley in his
" Illustration of the Science of Astrology," and others have recommended
the forming a scale of numbers to measure the strength or debility of
planets, aspects, etc.; for instance, a planet in its own sign in the mid-
heaven, they would mark it in strength number 10 ; and the planet only
in its exaltation they would mark 6 or 4, the same in regard to weak-
ness ; but the plan that I have generally adopted has been to weigh those
different positions of the planets in my mind ; by constant practice and
experience a person can in time, arrive at a very close judgment in com-
paring any two charts of the heavens, as to their strength or weakness.
For instance, taking the time the Hon. William McKinley was nom-
inated, the Moon was in the sign Libra in the midheaven, applying to a

good aspect of Jupiter, lord of the ascendant in a fixed sign, in a fortu-

nate house, afterwards the Moon came to the 11th house, (or house of



3O4 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

friends,) and then made good aspects of four planets, that is: Mercury,
Neptune, Venus and the Sun, all in the 7th house, and the Moon in

the llth house, indicated that Mr. McKinley would gradually go on
gaining friends, and a great many of them, or enough to elect him.

There was one evil aspect, and that was the Moon making an oppo-
sition of Mars, but that planet was in good aspect to the four planets in

the 7th house.

At the time Mr. Bryan was nominated, Mars, lord of the ascendant was
in a cadent house, the 6th, (a very evil house, ) and was set, and going
lower and lower, and the Moon could hardly have been more afflicted,

as it was just the new Moon, and in a very weak house, the 8th, (or
house of death) and Saturn, retrograde, just rising, right in square to

Jupiter, lord of the 4th, the only planet that was in any way strong.

It was a foregone conclusion that McKinley would be elected the
moment that Bryan was nominated. Those two charts of the heavens
of the nominations of the two presidential candidates, deserve a great

deal of study and attention, as they are object lessons to the student, and
answer as examples for future nominations.

Some of my readers may say as Mr. McKinley was nominated at

such a fortunate time, why should not his administration be equally for-

tunate ? To decide that matter we have to examine the horoscope of
William McKinley, and compare it with other horoscopes, 'and I think

if the student compares the horoscope of Queen Victoria with the horo-
scope of William McKinley, he will find a wonderful difference, as the

Queen has Jupiter in a fixed sign in the midheaven, and unafflicted in

close good aspect to Mars in its own sign, and the Sun and Moon in the
ascendant, and all the planets rising above the Earth except Uranus.
We term the horoscope of Queen Victoria, an exceedingly fortunate
one, the very opposite to such a horoscope as William McKinley or
President Buchanan.

I think the time must come when the leading men in this country will

pay attention to the planetary influences in national affairs as was done
by leading men in former times in other countries, and that previous to

putting any man in nomination for such a high office as president of the
United States, they will have some competent Astrologer calculate his

horoscope and see whether that individual, if elected, would be a blessing

to the nation or a curse. Had the Republicans understood anything
about Astrology, they certainly would not have put in nomination and
elected a person with a horoscope like the Hon. William McKinley, who
has only one planet above the earth, and that the evil planet Mars,
neither would the Democrats in 1856, had they any knowledge of
Astrology, have put in nomination and elected a person with a horo-
scope like James Buchanan, who had the evil planet Saturn in his

midheaven, and the Moon in the 7th applying to a square of that unfortu-

nate planet. Should the science of Astrology become generaHy known,
and if we can judge anything by the signs of the times, and the trend of
events, that day is not far distant, then it will be in the future, as Mr.
Ashmond in his translation of " Claudius Ptolemy " states it was in the



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 3°S

past, that Astrology "entered into the councils of princes, it guided
the policy of nations, it ruled the daily actions of individuals, and
physicians who were not well versed in this science were not deemed
competent to practice their profession."

HOROSCOPE OF THE SAILING OF THE GERMAN FLEET
FOR CHINA.

bM2>

Chart of the Heavens for the Time Prince Henry Brother of the
f

Emperor of Germany, set Sail from Kiel, Germany,
to China, Dec. 16th, 1897, at 9 a - m -

In order to calculate the positions of the signs and planets for the
above Chart of the Heavens, the student should read over " Rule to set

a Map of the Heavens," on page 142, then procure a map of Germany
and look for Kiel Bay, and there he will find Kiel, in a small inlet, 54°
north latitude, and near lo° east longitude, from Greenwich, England ;

then look in an Ephemeris for 1897, and turn to the month of December,
and on the 16th day he will find the Sidereal Time is 17 hours
and 40 minutes for 12 o'clock noon of that day; he deducts 3
hours from that sum, as it is 3 hours before 12 o'clock noon, which
leaves 14 hours and 40 minutes; and in " Dalton's Table of Houses"
for latitudes from 22 to 56, he will find on the top line of page 42 that

14 hours and 42 minutes is the nearest to that sum, and a little to the
right he will find Scorpio 13 °. He places that sign and 13 on the

cusp of the \oth house, and then run his finger down the left hand column
until he comes to 54, and on a line with that figure, and immediately
under 14 hours and 42 minutes he will find the signs and the degrees



306 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

and minutes for the remainder of the Northern houses ; which he will

copy into the blank chart. He will then insert the opposite or Southern
signs, and their degrees and minutes on the opposite houses.

As Kiel is io° east longitude from Greenwich, England, the student
will multiply that sum by 4, (the number of minutes in time to one
degree oflongitude,) which makes 40 minutes, which he adds to 1 2 o'clock
noon, and that makes o hours and 40 minutes in the afternoon ; he then
sees how far each planet, the Sun and Moon travels in 3 hours and 4.0

minutes, and subtracts that sum from the degrees and minutes of each of
the planets and Sun and Moon as printed in the Ephemeris for December
16th, 1897, for 12 noon at London, and then insert the remainder of
the degrees and minutes, and also the planets and Sun and Moon in the

blank chart, and he will find that they correspond, or very nearly, to the

above Chart of the Heavens.
If the student turns to page 291 and paragraph 641 he will find

" Elections for Navigation or Going on a voyage," and he will see by
the above Chart of the Heavens that it was a very evil time to set sail

on an important voyage, as the Moon is in the 8th house, (the house
of death,) and is just leaving a square of Venus, lady of the 9th house,
(the house of long journeys,) and making a square of Mars, lord of the

3d, and also of the 10th house, (house of honor,) and the next aspect it

makes afterwards is a square of the Sun in the 12th, and lord of the 8th
house. The planet Mercury is in the ascendant, but just leaving a square
of Jupiter in the 8th, all marked evil aspects.

There is no doubt that Prince Henry's expedition will prove very
disastrous. If the student turns to the horoscope of Emperor William
II. of Germany, he will find that the opposite signs of his horoscope are

rising in the above election, and that Mercury is in exact opposition to

its place at his birth ; and the Sun, lord of the 8th house of the election, is

in the 12th of the election and is in close conjunction to Venus in the

6th house, in the Emperor's horoscope (or house of sickness,) and is

just leaving the square of Neptune, and making a square of Mars, both
in the midheaven of the Emperor's horoscope. It will be strange indeed
if the voyage does not prove very disastrous to Emperor William
and his brother and also to the whole German nation, and that

within a short time they will be like the French Republic who sent their

navy to seize and possess Tonquin, in China. They were soon very
glad to get back to France, and when they did get back, they took the
cholera germs with them, which ravaged Marseilles and Toulon, and
that epidemic spread over a great part of France, and carried off many
thousands of its inhabitants. The expedition also came near making
another revolution in France. •

When the laws and principles of Astrology become better understood,
no government will attempt to send a fleet on an important mission

without first consulting the stars. In the East Indies the people pay
much more attention to this science than they do in the western coun-
tries, they will not even undertake the most trivial matter without
first observing the positions and aspects of the heavenly bodies.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 3°7

CHART OF THE HEAVENS FOR THE TIME OF MARRIAGE
OF MR. AND MRS. LANGTRY, ON THE ISLAND

OF JERSEY, AT 3 a. m., MARCH 12th, 1874.

In order to calculate the Chart of the Heavens for that time and
place, the student should procure a map of France. He will find the

Island of Jersey near the northern part of that country, 49 north lati-

tude and 2 west longitude, and if he looks in the Ephemeris for 1874
on the 12th of March, he will find 23 h. and 20 m. sidereal time; from
that sum he will subtract 9, which leaves 14 hours and 20 minutes, as it

was 9 hours before noon when the marriage occured. In the Table of

Houses for London, which l« only 2 from that latitude, he will find 8°

of Scorpio on the mid-heaven, 29 of Scorpio on the 11th; and 16
of Sagittarius on /

the 12th ; z Q and i8 of Capricorn on the ascendant,
20 of Aquarius on the 2d, and S Q of Aries on the 3d, which he will

fill into a blank chart.

A^h^

Map of the Heavens, for March 12th, 1874, at 3 a. m.,
Island of Jersey.

Then insert the opposite signs and degrees and minutes in their

proper places. In calculating the longitude of the planets he will see

what longitude each planet, and the Sun and Moon is in on that day at

noon in London, and deduct one third of the distance they travel that

day and one hour over, from the degrees and minutes marked in the

Ephemeris, and then insert them in their proper places in the chart.

The above he will find is a correct chart of the heavens for the time of
their marriage.



3 o8 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

The time of marriage is given as 3 o'clock in the morning, but no
doubt it was 15 or 20 minutes later or very near half past 1 when they
were married, when Saturn was right up in the ascendant, and Uranus
in the 7th house near an opposition, only 3 from the aspect and no
doubt they separated when that direction came up 3 years after marriage,
reckoning a year in time for each degree in longitude.

If the student turns to page 289, paragraphs 630 and 631, he will rind

that they could not have chosen a more unfortunate time for marriage.
The #

election for marriage referred to in paragraph 630 says "
: Let not

Saturn, Mars or Uranus be in the 7th house for that makes the woman
very ill tempered ; also Saturn, Mars or Uranus in the ascendant, makes
the man very cross and ill tempered "

; it also says "
: Let the 7th

house and the Moon and also the ascendant be free from affliction in

such signs as favor marriage." But at the time of this marriage, Capri-
corn was on the ascendant and the Moon, lady of the 7th house just

Mrs. Lillian Langtry.

leaving a square of Jupiter, retrograde, in the eighth and making a square

of Mercury, retrograde, in the third. The Moon would be on the

ascendant when the marriage ceremony would commence, if at 3 A. M.
It has been impossible to get the time of birth from either Mr. or

Mrs. Langtry, but if we could get them, there is no doubt both had
what we call very evil aspects for marriage in their horoscopes.

Independent of their horoscopes or time of marriage, if we compare
their physiognomy and temperaments or even their phrenology by their

pictures, one could readily perceive that it was impossible for them to be

happy together, as Mrs. Langtry has a peculiar nervous and very fine

temperament, and is of a high intellectual order, with refined feelings,

whereas the face, chin, and lower back part of Mr. Langtry's head, indi-

cate an entirely opposite nature.



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 3°9

I have referred to this subject, and to the positions of the planets at

their marriage, to show that Astrology, phrenology, physiology and
physiognomy, all agree when they are properly understood, and also to

point out that when a man and woman thus disagree in their married
life and separate the latter becomes more or less reckless in her conduct.

I also wish to show how important it is that when a person contem-
plates marriage, a suitable time should be elected according to planetary
influence, if lasting happiness is desired ; but if the parties getting married
elect an unfortunate time for that event they must expect it to terminate
in a similar manner to the marriage of Mr. and Mrs. Langtry.

I have always found that when parties have unfortunate horoscopes
for marriage they invariably get married at unfortunate times, unless they
employ an Astrologer to calculate a fortunate time for their marriage.

In a horoscope of the time of marriage the ascendant indicates the
man and the 7th house the woman. At the time of Mr. and Mrs.
Langtry's marriage the evil planet Uranus was retrograde in the 7th house,

Mr. Edward Langtry.

the Moon lady of the 7th house was leaving an evil aspect of one retro-

grade planet and applying to an evil aspect of another retrograde planet,

all indicating that Mrs. Langtry would leave or separate from her
husband. She tried several times to get a divorce and finally succeeded
in California, but her husband and the English courts never recognized it

but death finally put an end to this ill-starred marriage. In the fall of
1897 Mr. Langtry fell from the gang-plank of a vessel, which accident
resulted in insanity and death. The evil planet Saturn in the ascend-
ant in a fixed sign caused Mr. Langtry to be stubborn in opposing her
divorce and against recognizing it.

I understand the reason Mr. and Mrs. Langtry were married at such an
early hour, was that they wished to start on their wedding tour after the

ceremony, and 3 a. m. just allowed them time to take the train or boat.



)

3*0 Elements of astrology.

HOROSCOPE OF VICTORIA, QUEEN OF GREAT BRITAIN
AND IRELAND, AND EMPRESS OF INDIA.

Her Majesty was born on the 24th of May 1 8
1 9, at 4. 1 5 a. m. London,

England, at which time of Gemini were rising, and Q
J of Aquarius

5
culminating. She was born under the former sign and the planet Mer-
cury in the sign Taurus, in the 12 th house, it having no special aspect

to any planet ; also the Sun and Moon were within orbs of the ascend-
ant, the latter just leaving a conjunction of the former and both leaving

a sextile of Saturn, in the sign Pisces in the 11th house, (the house of
friends.

The Queen's Nativity, May 24th, 1819, at 1.15 a. m., London.

In order to get a personal description of the Queen we have to notice
Mercury in Taurus, (see par. 129 page 118,) the Sun in Gemini,
(see par. 106, page 113,) the Moon in Gemini, (see par. 142, page
120,) and also the sign Gemini, (see par. 15, page 97;) by combin-
ing the whole the student will get a very close description of the Queen,
especially if he considers the sextile of the Sun and Moon to Saturn,
(see par. 216, page 132, and par. 222, page 133 ;) and can arrive at her
personal description, and also her mental qualities.* That which makes

* In giving a description of the native, the student should always bear in mind the first rule ;

Generally the planet which is lord of the ascendant, and the sign it is in, are the main factors for de-
scribing the native ; the second rule is, the sign on the ascendant ; the third, planets in the ascendant,
and in aspect to other planets, and also the lord of the ascendant in aspect to other planets ; and the
fourth, the Moon's, and aspects to other planets. Therefore the above description of Mercury
in Taurus, comes near describing the Queen. She would have been quite short, only she has a
tall sign on the ascendant, and the Moon and the Sun are both in tall signs, within orbs of the
ascendant. If the Sun and Moon had been in the ascendant instead of above it she would have
been taller and not so stout.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 3 t 1

this horoscope so remarkably fortunate is Jupiter in the midheaven una-
fflicted, in a fixed sign and in close sextile to Mars in its own sign in the
1 2th ; and also to the position of the Sun and Moon within orbs of the

ascendant.
Persons born with the Sun, Moon, Jupiter and Mars strong and in

good aspect in their horoscope, invariably overcome their enemies, and
rise above them, and yet the Queen must have had a number of false

friends, as she has Saturn in the l ith house, in square to Uranus on the
cusp of the 8th house, (house of death) which has at different times
caused her life to be in danger by secret enemies.

The Sun which is the " Giver of Life " in this horoscope, has caused her
to live to be an old woman, and should she get past 1898, and especially

if she lives by the early part of December, 1899, she may then live some
time longer, but 1898 and 1899 will be remarkably trying years, both
for her health and constitution, but in a horoscope where the " Hyleg "

is so strong as it is in the Queen's, it is very difficult to predict
the exact time of death, but during the two years referred to, her vitality

will be very seriously tried, also during these two years the English nation
will have the world against it, and its enemies will multiply, and many
of its supposed friends will turn into deadly enemies.

I shall not enter into any lengthy account of the Queen's horoscope.
The main reason I have inserted it is to illustrate four principles in

Astrology. The first is honor and wealth ; the second a long life ; the
third marriage, and the fourth children.

The Sun being "Hyleg," strong in the ascendant, unafflicted, and
leaving a good aspect or Saturn in the 1 ith, and Jupiter lord of the 8th,

The above positions of the Sun and Moon made the Queen slender when young, but Mercury
being in a short stout sign, caused her to become stouter as she grew older. The Sun and Moon
so close to the ascendant made the Queen lighter complexioned than she would otherwise have
been, if the description had depended only on Mercury in the sign Taurus.

The following which is copied from " Modern Astrology," for Oct. 1896, a monthly periodical
published in London, England, evidently shows that the author of the article has not had much
experience as an Astrologer ; if he had, he certainly would not have made such a mistake. The
writer says that:

" If her Majesty is a Gemini lady with both luminaries on the ascendant in that sign, she
would to a certainty be a tall dark lady, there being nothing of any consequences to counteract this.

If the ideas put forward in The ' Revised Horoscope ' are correct, the Queen is a Taurus lady ; she
answers well to Mercury in Taurus, both in person and mind as well as disposition ; if the birth
took place at 4.15 a. m., on the 24th of May 1819, the meridian was in 2 degrees and 25 minutes ;

and by equal division of the sphere, the ascendant would be .Taurus 2 degrees and 25 minutes,
which will be found to accord/with what is known of the lady, better than the horoscope published."

" Jariel," the Australian Astrologer.

"Jariel " ought to bear in mind that the " equal division of the sphere " or putting the same
number of degrees of the signs on each of the 12 houses was discussed and settled over 2,000 years
ago. and all nativities are now calculated for the longitude and latitude of the place of birth, by all

good Astrologers.

Once while giving a lecture on Astrology, at 814 Broadway, in 1867, the time of birth of a lady
born the 24th of May, 1819, at 4.15 a. m., London, was handed in, and I drew the chart on the
blackboard, reading it off without any trouble or difficulty, and it appears I gave a very good des-
cription of the lady, her marriage, time of marriage, and description of her husband, and time of
his death, all appear to correspond exactly. Among other things I stated she would be very
wealthy, and ride in her own carriage, and live to a good old age. When I got through I expected
the lady to get up and state if what I had said was "correct. Instead Prof. Wilson told us it was
the horoscope of Queen Victoria I had been reading; I was very much surprised at the accuracy
of my reading. Prof. Wilson knew the exact time of birth as she and her guardian consulted him
when he was a watchmaker in London. Victoria had not come to the throne at that time, as
King William was still living.



312 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

strong in the midheaven, and in close sextile to Mars, strong in its own
sign, an*J lord of the 6th, (house of sickness,) indicate that she would
live to a great age, and that even although her life has been attempted
several times, the "Hyleg" so strong, and Jupiter so strong in the

midheaven in close good aspect to Mars, has so changed the bullet's

course aimed at her life, that they had no effect on her, and she has
never as much as received a wound, only when she fell and hurt her knee.

The Queen's horoscope is exceedingly fortunate for marriage, as

Jupiter is lord of the 7th house, in the midheaven, and the Sun first

applies to a trine of that planet, and if the student turns to par. 90
page 110, and also par. 21 page 98, he will find that they would
exactly describe Prince Albert, her late husband, and also that she
would live very happily, and be exceedingly fond of her husband.
Had the Qeen married a second time the marriage would not have

been so fortunate, as the second husband would be described by the

planet Mars in the sign Aries, in the 12th, an evil house, although that

planet being in good aspect to Jupiter, would improve his temper and
disposition slightly, but still it would have been an unfortunate marriage,
and the Queen would have found a remarkable difference between a

Jupiter man and a Mars man for a husband.
On account of the Queen's horoscope being so fortunate for marriage,

she appears to have had but little patience or sympathy with women
who have what we term unfortunate horoscopes for marriage, and she
thinks that when a woman does not live happily with her husband, it is

entirely the woman's fault. It is reported that she will not receive a

divorced woman at court or in any way recognize her.

If the Queen had as unfortunate a horoscope for marriage as she has
for children, she would have much more sympathy with ladies who are

so unfortunate as not to be able to live with their husbands. These
women might reply to the Queen by telling her it is her own fault she
has had so much trouble with her children.

The Queen having the Moon in the ascendant, and it a fruitful planet,

particularly as both the Sun and Moon were leaving a good aspect of

Saturn in the 11th, in a fruitful sign, caused her to have a large family,
but Saturn being in opposition to her 5th house (or house of children,)
caused her to have much unhappiness in relation to children. It was
reported in the papers that on account of one of the elder sons being
turned out of school for bad conduct, Prince Albert, her husband, then in

poor health, took a journey to Wales to try and arrange matters, when
he caught more cold and brought on gastritis, which resulted in his death.
The Prince Consort died Dec. 14th, 1861,* when the Queen had the

Sun right over Uranus's place on the cusp of the 8th house, in exact

Prince Albert, husband of Queen Victoria, was born Aug. 26th, 1819, at 6.4 a. m., Saxcoburg-
Gotha, Germany.

According to the above time given, he was born under the planet Mercury in the sign Virgo
in the ascendant, with 11 degrees of that sign rising, and 6 degrees of Gemini culminating. Mars
was 23 degrees in Gemini in the midheaven, almost in exact square to Mercury in the ascendant,
and in close opposition to Uranus in the 4th house, and applying to a square of Saturn in the 7th
house.

He had a very conflicting horoscope but it indicated a very talented man, and he was very
fine looking, so much so that many Astrologers, before they knew the exact time of birth, calcu



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 3*3

square to Saturn in the 5th, and Jupiter was also in opposition to Saturn's
place. The Queen having her planet in the 12th house (the house of
sorrow,) caused her to mourn for a number of years after his death,
and would not receive company.
He died rather suddenly. The Queen did not marry under good

aspects in her horoscope, as on the day of marriage, Feb. loth, 1840,

•.V"-^!-*::--*?."!!»_"

Prince Consort.

the Moon was in Taurus in her 12th house, in square to Jupiter in her
midheaven; also making an opposition of Jupiter in Scorpio, and a

square of the Sun on that day, which evil aspects had much to do with
shortening the life of Prince Albert. Besides, the Prince did not have a

long lived horoscope, neither was it a very fortunate one for marriage,
although the Queen lived very happily with him.

lated his horoscope and supposed him to have heen born under Jupiter in Aquarius, but after his
death a paper was discovered which gave the exact time of birth as stated above.

The Prince had Saturn in the 7th house (the house of marriage,) and applying by retrograde
motion to a square of Mars in the midheaven would indicate that his marriage was not a very
happy one to him. Tlie Moon made a square of Jupitor in Aquarius, and Jupiter was lord of the
7th, (or house of marriage,) which would come very near describing a lady like the Queen.

He could not have enjoyed the best of health during many parts of his life, as the ascendant
was the giver of life and Mercury so afflicted in the ascendant by a square of Uranus and Mars,
and an opposition of Saturn caused his life to be short. He died Dec. 14th, 1861, when the Sun
was in exact square to Mercury, and Saturn was just transiting over his Mercury's place in the
ascendant, and Jupiter was in the sigti Virgo, making an opposition of Saturn's place.

It is a remarkable coincidence that he should die of stomach and liver trouble or gastritis just
at that time, and all these planets afflicting his ruling planet in the sign Virgo, which governs the
abdomen and stomach.



3*4 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

The above picture gives a typical idea of the features of a person
described by Jupiter in Aquarius, and any one who was an artist and
understood Astrology might soon after the birth of the Queen have
painted almost an exact likeness of the person she would marry, as he
would be described by 21 in £? and the sign $ , and also could have
come very close to the time of marriage, as all the planets except one
were rising, which would indicate an early marriage.
The following picture of the Queen, taken soon after her coronation,

gives a very good likeness of her in her early years, and shows her
description as indicated by the Sun and Moon in Gemini, and had
the Sun and Moon been lower down in the ascendant, or below the cusp
she would have been much taller, slimmer and even lighter complexioned
than she is. The second picture (on the opposite page) gives her as

Queen Victoria as she appeared at 20 years of age.

described by the planet Mercury in Taurus, a stout sign, (see par. 578,
page 225,) and which shows how she would gradually become an ideal

person of the planet Mercury in Taurus in a fixed sign as she grew older.

As I have already mentioned, the Queen has some remarkably evil

influences during the next two years, and she would begin to feel

them in a more marked manner than she has had it not been for Jupiter
coming in good aspect to both the Sun and Moon and her ascendant,
which occured in the early part of November, and it will remain in

close good aspect to her Sun and Moon and ascendant, until the latter

part of August, 1 898. It will also form a good aspect of its own place

in October, 1898.
If it had not been for the good influence of Jupiter, the Queen and

the English nation would have been in serious trouble by the commence-



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 3*5

merit of 1898, as she has both Saturn and Uranus in her 7th house, in

opposition to both the Sun and Moon, and they will continue to afflict

her during 1898, but the most evil planetary influence is the slow-going
planet Neptune which will continue in close opposition 10 Uranus's
place in the 8th house, nearly all of 1898, and the whole of 1899.
The English nation and the Queen will feel the evil influence of

Saturn and Uranus in an angle or the seventh house, or Queen's house
of enemies, which evil influence will continue for nearly two years.

Probably there will be some attempt on her life or she may die very
suddenly during these evil aspects.

Queen Victoria as she appears in her 7gth year.

It will be next to impossible for the English government to keep out of
trouble, and no doubt some of the colonies will rise in rebellion, especially

India, and it will be strange indeed, if the nation can avoid being em-
broiled in war during the next two years.

The Queen also has an unfortunate revolutionary figure for her next
birthday, May 24th, 1898, as Jupiter will be in the 4th house, oppo-
site to its position at birth. She will have four planets in the 12th

house, (the house of secret enemies,) and Mars an evil planet is almost
in the same degree of the sign Aries in the 11th. house (the house of
friends,) that it was in the 12th house at birth. The Sun is in the 12th



i6 ELEMENTS O? ASTROLOGY.

and in almost exact opposition to Uranus. She has also two evil planets

in the 6th house (or house of sickness,) all indicating that her health

will be poor, if she is not dangerously ill during the coming year.

Mercury her ruling planet, is almost in the exact position in Taurus
that it was at birth, but in the l ith house, instead of being in the 12th
as it was when she was born. These aspects and positions of the

planets will cause the Queen to have more secret enemies than she has

known for a very long time. Her secondary directions are also evil

during the coming year. The Moon is making a square of Venus and
the Sun is almost in exact opposition to Jupiter's radical place.

Queen Victoria's Revolution from May 24th, 1898, to May 24th, i8gg.

Occurs May 23d, 1898 at 6.43 a. m.

If the student inspects the two charts of the heavens, the Revolution

figure and the Secondary Directions, he will see that they are not as

fortunate as her own nativity was at birth.

The Queen's Revolution, Secondary Directions and Transits from

May 24TH 1898, to May 24TH, 1899.

The Revolutionary figure is a chart of the heavens erected for the

exact time that the Sun arrives at the degree and minute that it was in at

birth ; when that exact moment is ascertained in any particular year,

then the student inserts the signs and their degrees and the longitudes of

the planets for that time the same as if it was a nativity.

The figure of a Revolution when erected as above described is the

horoscope for the year which it is calculated for, and the good or evil

aspects in that Revolution have much influence on the native's life for



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.
3 l 7

that year. The position and aspects of the planets in the Revolution
have also to be noticed in regard to their radical places in the nativity,

and in that respect are said to have much influence on the native, and
his circumstances for the ensuing year.

The Secondary Directions are calculated by first inserting the signs of
the Zodiac and their degrees in a blank chart, the same as they were at

birth, then count the number of days from the birthday, that the native
is years old, and calculate the longitude of the Sun, Moon and planets

for that day, to the same hour and minute of the day, that the native
was born ; that gives the Secondary Directions for that year.

Queen Victoria's Secondary Directions, from May 24th, 1898, to May
24th, 1899.

The number of degrees the Moon is from forming an aspect of a

planet, either in the horoscope of Secondary Directions or the Revolution,
indicates the number of months after the birthday that the influence of
the aspect will be felt, especially if the Moon is travelling at the rate of
12 a day, which corresponds to 12 months of the year. If the Moon
is travelling faster, then count a little more than a degree for a month.

This remark applies to the Secondary Directions both in the Second-
ary Direction figure and to the aspects of the planets to their radical

places in the nativity, counting a month for a degree that the Moon is

from forming any aspect, which indicates the number of months from
the birthday that the influence of the aspect will be felt in that year.

When a Revolution does not harmonize with the nativity it is said to

be an unfortunate Revolution for that year thus, if the sign on the
;

ascendant in the Revolution is in square or opposition to the sign that is

on the ascendant at birth, it makes it a very unfortunate Revolution, or



3^8 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

vice versa. If the sign on the ascendant is in sextile or trine to the
ascendant at birth, and the aspects agree in both the Revolution and
nativity, then it is called a good Revolution, etc.

On the whole, the Secondary Directions and the Revolutionary figures

are unfavorable for the Queen from May 24, 1898, to May 24, 1899.
The aspects of the planets in their revolution around the Sun which

occur in a chart, as in the Queen's nativity, of Saturn and Uranus going
through her 7th house, in opposition to the Sun and Moon in the ascend-
ant in 1898 are called " Transits," and the Queen's horoscope has re-

markably evil transits during the next two years. They will not only
affect her own health and condition, or surroundings, but all those who
are subject to or under her. That influence will continue until those
evil transits are passed unless she dies in the meantime. In that case for

the inflnence on the subjects we have to notice or look to the aspects in

the horoscope of the Prince of Wales, or the horoscope of the heir to

the throne, in a similar manner to the Queen's.
For practice the student can compare the two charts of the heavens

of the Revolution and Secondary Directions, with the Queen's horo-
scope, and notice in which month the fortunate or unfortunate aspects

will occur, reckoning from the Queen's birthday. He might also pro-
cure Raphael's Ephemeris for 1898, and notice in which month the evil

transit of Saturn and Uranus will have the most effect, and the time the

good aspect of Jupiter will have a modifying influence.

There is in addition to the Revolutionary figures, the Secondary Direc-
tions, and the transits, also what are termed "Primary Directions," that

is, the aspects of the planets and the Sun and Moon, which occur after or
before birth ; the former are termed " Direct Directions," the latter,

" Converse Directions. " For every degree that the planet or Sun and
Moon has to travel to complete the aspect is reckoned a year of the

native's life. If the student examines the Queen's horoscope he will

find that Uranus is 23 degrees and 20 minutes in Sagittarius, and Saturn
28 degeees and 48 minutes in Pisces. Uranus is a little over 5° from a

square of Saturn. At 5 1-4 years of age the Queen would feel that evil

aspect, and no doubt she was very ill, or there was some serious misfor-

tune in her family at that age possibly she might have buried a near
;

relation or some other affliction came to her.

These Primary Directions can easily be calculated during the early

years of the native's life ; but when the native gets older, in order
to calculate those directions exactly, we have to draw what we term a
" speculum," as these directions, reckoning a degree for a year, do not
always correspond with a year of the native's life. When the native

arrives at the age of 50 or 60, these discrepancies may in some nativ-

ities be considerable.
The Queen will have an evil direction to the Moon during the year

1898, which will very seriously affect her health or cause some other

affliction, and as the Moon and Sun are both in Gemini, in the

ascendant it will in all probability bring on some serious attack in some
way connected with the chest or head near the time when the aspect is

complete.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 3!9

HOROSCOPE OF LILLIAN RUSSELL.
This lady was born Dec. 4th, i860, at 11.40 p. m., Chicago, 111.

This well-known songstress was born under the planet Mercury, in
the sign Scorpio, which it is near leaving and entering Sagittarius, there-
fore she is described by Mercury in Sagittarius rather than Mercury in

Scorpio, as '.hat planet is more than 28 in the sign, and Mercury is also

in square to Jupiter, rising. This describes a handsome person as her
pictures indicate. She has 1 2 of Virgo rising, and io° of Gemini cul-
minating

; Saturn is just rising in close opposition to the planet Mars,
setting, and both in square to Uranus, retrograde, in the midheaven and
applying to a square of the Sun in the 4th house.

Chart for Dec. 4th, i860, at 11.40 p. m., Chicago, 111.

The Moon has just risen in exact sextile to Venus, and applying to

an opposition of Mars and conjunction of Saturn, also to a square of
Uranus, and the Sun. It is very seldom that we see a horoscope that has
so many evil and conflicting aspects as this, especially for marriage or
partnership.

In order to describe this lady, both physically and mentally, the
student will have to turn to par. 18, page 97, par. 136, page 119, to

par. 275, page 139, par. 145, page 120, par. 245 and 246, page 135.
The student may also read Saturn in Virgo, Mars in Pisces, Uranus

in Gemini, and the Sun in Sagittarius, as they are all in aspect to each
other and the ascendant, also read their square and opposition aspects.*

* Mercury in Sagittarius gives brown hair, and I understand that was the original color of the
lady's hair.



320 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

These numerous squares, oppositions and particularly the sextile of
the Moon to Venus, and the Moon rising, has caused this lady to have
such remarkable abilities, and to become so well-known, in connection
with her musical talents, but still she will not leave a name behind her
equal to Jenny Lind, who had Venus in the sign Libra in the ascendant,
in her nativity, or of Adelina Patti, who has Venus in Scorpio in the

ascendant in her horoscope.

The only other horoscope that I can bring to mind that had so many
squares and oppositions was that of Stephen A.Douglass, who was a very
talented man, but who met with much opposition through lite, and I

believe eventually died poor. He ran for President in opposition to

Abraham Lincoln, but was defeated. There is much danger that this

lady will meet with many oppositions and conflicting difficulties in

different periods of her life, and it is very doubtful of her leaving much
wealth at her death.

Mr. Harry Braham,
First Husband.

Mr. Solomon, Second Husband.

The ascendant, being the giver of life and so afflicted, it is very
doubtful of her living to a great age, although it is possible that.she might
enjoy fair health generally, yet on account of Saturn afflicting Virgo rising,

she will at times have severe attacks of illness, chiefly afflicting the abdomen
and upper parts of the chest and throat, and will at times be troubled
with some slight heart difficulty, as Uranus is in Gemini, in square to

the ascendant, and Jupiter is in Leo, afflicting Mercury, her ruling
planet, and very probably will die after a very short illness.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 3 21

The main reason I have inserted this horoscope, is to refer to the
marked evil aspects for marriage. In a nativity where there are evil

planets in the 7th house, the house of marriage, it is always unfavorable
for happiness in married life, and having the planet Neptune in that house
is particularly evil, but more especially when Mars is there also in close

opposition of Saturn rising. Had the Sun first made the square of
Saturn or Mars it would have been much worse for her marriages than
it really has been, but the Sun so close to a square of these evil planets
has made it bad enough.

Lillian Russell. Mr. G. Perugini, Third Husband.

In a lady's horoscope she marries the person denoted by the planet

that the Sun first applies to by aspect for her first husband. See par.

298 and 299, page 164, also par. 305, page 165. The first aspect the

Sun makes in this horoscope is a trine to Jupiter in Leo in the 12th
house, (an evil house,) and Jupiter is within z° of a square of her ruling

planet, Mercury. (See picture of first husband.)
The above picture is almost a typical Jupiter in Leo person,* but

these two ruling planets being in square to each other, and Mercury
retrograde, caused her to leave him. The second aspect the Sun makes is

* If the student compares the above picture with Hon. William J. Bryan's, he will see a
resemblance, as they are both Jupiter men.



322 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

a sextile of Venus, and Mr. Solomon was a real Venus person ; Venus
being so close to a sextile of the Moon caused her to have considerable
affection for him, and the picture of the second husband is almost a

typical person described by Venus in Scorpio, both in personal appear-
ance and stature,^and it also indicates great reputation for musical talent.

For his description the student should turn to par, 123, page 116, and
pars. 245, 246, page 135. No doubt there was more harmony between
this lady and Mr. Solomon than with her other husbands, but his bad
reputation for women finally undermined their happiness.
The third aspect the Sun makes is a sextile of Mars, just setting, near

the cusp of the 7th house, and afflicting the house of marriage. The

Reported Fourth
Husband.

Lillian Russell.

picture of the third husband indicates a real Mars person. For his

personal description the student should turn to par. 103, page 1 13, par,

259, page 138, and par. 235, page 134. The union with this gentle-

man was of very short duration as the planet Mars is in the 7th house

and so close to an opposition of Saturn within orbs of the ascendant.

The fourth picture shows a person indicated by the planet Uranus in

the sign Gemini ; for his description turn to par. 58, page 105 ; but she will

not marry him. (See par. 302, page 165.) Should she marry again, the

next husband is indicated by the planet Saturn in the sign Virgo, and his

personal description would not be anything like the last picture referred

to ; for his personal description, the student should turn to par. 73,
page 107, and to par. 258, page 137, also par. 217, page 133. He will



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 323

have a peculiar sullen or down look, and not be agreeable in his manners.
It is more than probable that this lady will marry a fourth time, and
will also separate from that husband, possibly within a year after the
marriage. This horoscope is not fortunate for children and certainly she
will have only a small family, and these will not be of much comfort
or benefit to her, as Saturn lord of the 5th house, (the house of children,)

is afflicting the ascendant, but the Moon making a conjunction of Saturn,
and at the same time being in sextile to Venus, indicates that she would
be very fond of her children, and they would be good-looking.

In early life this lady would be very willful and head-strong, but on
the whole good-natured and kind-hearted, except when out of temper;
she must have had a number of very severe attacks of illness which seri-

ously threatened her life. One was during her first year, and another
at 3 years of age. She had a marked evil time at 6 1-2 years, also at 7
years, 14 years and 21 years. Probably she married the first time when
near 18 years of age. Commencing September 1890, and continuing up
to the fore part of 1896, she had a number of very evil planetary influ-

ences which have caused her serious trouble and unhappiness.

The present year, 1898, will not be a fortunate year, especially May,.
June, July, August, September and November. The year 1899 will

also be unfortunate for her as she will have Uranus afflicting her Moon's
place, also Saturn's and Mars' places and in opposition to its own place
and a conjunction of the Sun's place in her horoscope. All these are

very evil aspects and will afflict her financially and in her health. Uranus
will afflict her in a similar manner all through 1899.

If Queen Victoria had a horoscope similar to that of Lillian Russell,

she would have much more sympathy and feeling for women who are

unfortunate in marriage or compelled to be divorced from their husbands.
I have inserted the foregoing pictures and horoscope of this talented

lady to show that when a female has a nativity which is unfortunate for

marriage, no matter how attractive she may be in personal appearance,
figure or complexion, and no matter how talented a musician she may
be, conversationalist or entertainer, yet when it is so evil for marriage,
it is an impossibility for that person to retain or live happily with their

life's partner. Yet when the horoscope is fortunate for marriage, they
live happily even if the lady is old and anything but good-looking.

The same principles apply to those horoscopes of parties who are

unfortunate in burying their companions after marriage, whether men or
women. In such horoscopes as show the affliction of the life's partner,
especially if afflicted in the 6th, 8th or 2d house, no matter how
indulgent or careful they are of their partners, those partners are only
of short life.

I wish the student to bear in mind that I do not blame Lillian

Russell for not living happily with her husbands, because her horoscope
shows distinctly that it would be more her husband's fault than her's

that she did not continue to live happily with them, and that she is also

of an affectionate nature, and ought to live happily with almost any man,
if it was not for the evil aspects for marriage in her horoscope.



— —

32* ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

From Broughton's Monthly Planet Reader, for Dec. 1869.

THE HOROSCOPE OF LORD GEORGE GORDON BYRON.
" There is a name that will survive
Royalty's monumental stone,
And long as history can give
Deserv'd renown, must deathless live;
Byron, it is thine own." Mirror.

" Beautiful stars, in other days,
The prophet's eyes might read your rays,
And tell of many a strange event,
Of warfare and of warning sent." Byron.

Lord Byron's Nativity, January 22d, 1788, at 1.18 a. m., London.

"Little did Lord Byron think when writing these beautiful lines that
1

years after his death and burial the skill of the 'prophet's eye, in 'reading
the rays of the Stars,"" should be the only authentic record left to justify

his fair name and character j to remove the most ignominious charge of
incest, and fix the fabrication of it on the right person, that is Lady Byron.

" The time of birth of this truly noble and most illustrious poet was
obtained some years ago, from an authentic source, so that there can be no
doubt of its correctness. From what source I received it is of no account
to the reader, only I can assure him that I did not receive it from either

Harriet Beecher Stowe or Lady Byron. And its perfect agreement with the
principally known events of his life exhibits a most remarkable proof of
Astrology, by far too strong for the enemies of the science to invalidate.

" Lord Byron was born when 6 degrees of Scorpio were rising, which
caused him to be born under the planet Mars, in Cancer, near a conjunction
of the Moon, and applying to an opposition of Mercury, which will describe
a person near the middle height, well built, light hair and light complexioned,
high forehead and oval face.

"The Moon is the giver of life, and being in conjunction with an evil

planet, and in opposition to another, and otherwise materially afflicted,



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 3*5

indicated a short life, and also the kind of death. But I shall refer to this
part of the horoscope afterwards.

" The extraordinary mental qualifications which Lord Byron possessed
are most amply demonstrated by the positions and configurations of the
Moon and Mercury. The latter planet is the principal ruler of the intel-
lectual faculties, and being free from the affliction of the Solar rays, in the
moveable and tropical sign Capricorn, oriental, and approaching' a' sextile
of the ascendant, by which means he may be said to be in a glorious posi-
tion, contributes, according to the Quadripartite of Ptolemy, to render the
mind 'clever, sensible, capable of great learning, inventive, expert, logical,
studious of nature, speculative, of good genius, emulous, benevolent, skillful
in argument, accurate in conjecture, and adapted to science and mystery.'*

Lord George Gordon Byron.
The page also adds, 'tractable;' but Mercury being in opposition to
Moon the

and Mars, instead of tractibility, gives hatred of control 5 inspires the
native with the most lofty ideas and aspiring sentiments; gives him origi-
nality and eccentricity, with a firmness of mind almost inclining to obstinacy,
and which made this illustrious native such an enemy to the track of custom,
tor which lie was so remarkable, and which contributed to form that lofty
genius which alike rode in the whirlwind, or sparkled in the sunbeam.

S C >t0,e, 1 ,s Tetrabiblos,
nf c* ^ | ? y ? page 167, translated from the Greek bv J. M. Ashmond,
or (Edition

1822.) A work which lias stood the lest of criticisms of its opponents, for nearly
years, ttoo

and thousand
it is likely to be a text book on Astrology for two thousand years to come.



326 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

" The disposition and rational faculties are no less plainly described by
the position of the Moon in conjunction with Mars; likewise, in a tropical
and cardinal sign, wherein she is powerful while Mars is nearly in exact
mundane trine to the ascendant. These positions laid the foundation, from
the moment of his existence, of that peculiarity of disposition, that keen
and cutting vein of satire, that caustic and pointed wit, that extraordinary
development of energies, passions and eccentricities, that quick, enterprising
and daring mind, and that exquisite taste, talent and sensibility for which
he stood unrivalled. But, at the same time that this position of the heavenly
bodies gave sentiments of the most perfect heroism and invincible courage,
it is to be regretted that it inclined the temper to be both hasty and irascible

on the slightest occasion, and to increase the violence of the most powerful
passions !

" Mercury, it will be observed, is alone in the sign of the winter tropic,

and in semi-quartile to Saturn, which may account for the solitary gloom
that so frequently overshadowed his path through life, as well as for that
melancholy sadness which tinged some of his brightest ideas, and which
actually seems to have embittered the latest hours of his existence.

"Thus it will be observed, from a combined view of the above testimo-
nies, judged according to the established and experimental rules of the astral

science, that the nativity plainly demonstrates the illustrious subject thereof
to have been endowed with the most extraordinary and stupendous intellect,

with a genius and imagination, as far surpassing the common run of poets,

as the refulgent rays of the meridian Sun surpass the feeble twinkling of the
smallest star that arises in our horizon ! Neither is it a trifling proof of
Astrology, that his geniture so plainly demonstrate that he was " born a
poet."

Marriage.

"The Moon first applies to an opposition [the very worst aspect that
there is,] of Mercury, in the sign Capricorn; (See par. 306, page 165, par.

137, page 119, par, 290, page 141, par. 283, page 140, and par. 300, page
164.) Therefore, his wife is denoted by the planet Mercury in Capricorn,
which will describe a person below the middle height; when young, slender
built, dark hair, oval or thin face, and pale skin. Of a quick temper, and
at times, ill-natured, peevish, suspicious and jealous.

" Mercury is in opposition to Mars, [Lord Byron's ruling planet,] and
Venus, lady of the seventh house, the house of marriage, is applying to a

conjunction of the evil planet Saturn, in the fourth. (See par. 167, page 126.)
We seldom meet with a nativity so evil for marriage as this. I have
examined over 50,000 nativities myself, and never met with one worse for
marriage. However amiable Lady Byron might, at times, have appeared
to others, to her husband she would be a perfect she-devil, and could not
help it, and it would be just as reasonable to expect the Angel Gabriel to

live in wedlock with Satan, as Lord Byron to have continued to live with
'

his wife.'55

Lord Byron married Miss Milbanke, Jan. 2d, 1815, when he was 27
years old, while Jupiter was transiting over his midheaven. This ill-

starred union did not last quite a year; soon after the birth of their

daughter Ida, which occurred on Dec. 10th 1815, Lady Byron returned

* Why do not the opponents of Astrology show from the examination of Byron's nativity, that
he should have been a fool or a simpleton ; and according to the rules of Astrology, he ought to

have lived happily and in perfect harmony with his wife? Simply because it is impossible to be
done and they know it.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 3 2/

f
to her father and could not be prevailed upon to go back c

to Newstead
Abby," Lord* Byron's home. The separation brought Lord Byron a

great deal of ill-will from different parties, as he writes himself: "I
am accused of every monstrous vice, from both public and private

rancor."
Lord Byron's horoscope is unfortunate for children, as Jupiter, lord

of the 5th house is in the 8th house, (the house of death) which cer-

tainly indicates a very small family, and even that small number would
not live to be old.

The planet Mars, Lord Byron's significator, being in the 9th house,
(house of long journeys) in opposition to Mercury, and both being in

movable and cardinal signs, caused Byron to travel a great deal, and
to be very unsettled and discontented ; also Saturn in conjunction with
Venus in the 4th house made his home generally unhappy. It is stated

that Lord Byron's father and mother were a very " ill-matched pair,"

and their ungovernable tempers caused them to separate. Lord Byron's
mother returned to her father's home soon after her son's birth.

Whenever Saturn is in the 4th house it always makes much unhappi-
ness connected with home affairs, especially in early life. It also often

causes the patrimony to be wasted or squandered, or the property
dwindles away yet Jupiter lord of the 2d house, (house of money,)

;

being in the 8th house, (house of death and wills,) and in good aspect

to Venus and Saturn in the 4th house, would indicate that he would
inherit a large estate.

Whenever the planet Mercury is in evil aspect to the Moon, (the

Moon represents the public,) that native is almost certain to have evil

reports circulated about him or her, no matter if they live the life of a

saint, and never do an imprudent act in their whole life.

The opposition of the Moon and Mercury was the cause of Byron's
lameness, Mercury being in Capricorn which rules the knees, also Saturn
in conjunction with Venus, in mundane square to the ascendant, and in

Aquarius which governs the ankles and limbs below the knees ; no doubt
the lameness was brought on by accident which occured at four years of
age/vhen Venus came to a conjunction of Saturn in the 4th, house by
direction.

The Moon in the 9th house, (the house of religion,) in opposition to

Mercury, caused Byron to rail against the established religion, yet for all

that, his ruling planet and the Moon being in the 9th house, (house of
religion,) caused him to be of a religious turn of mind, but at the same
time he was very much opposed to superstition and to such stories as

Adam and Eve in the garden of Eden.
Byron being born under the warlike planet Mars, made him a fighter and

of a high temper, and very much opposed to oppression. He died after

taking cold while helping to free the Greeks from the oppression of
the Turks, when he was 36 years of age, when the evil planet Saturn was
transiting over his 7th house, in opposition to his ascendant, and in

square to Venus and its own place, and Mars his ruling planet came by
direction to an opposition of Saturn's place in the 4th house.



3^8 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

The Moon being the giver of life in this horoscope, and being very
much afflicted by an opposition of the planet Mercury, and also besieged
between the two evil planets Mars and Uranus. It was impossible for
him to have lived to be an old man, even if he had lived a very temperate,
quite and uneventful life.

Nearly all the above was published in " Broughton's Monthly Planet
Reader," December, 1869, during the time of the great excitement
caused by the publication in the "Atlantic Monthly" of the scandal of
Lord Byron, as stated by Lady Byron, and written by Mrs. Harriet
Beecher Stowe.

Lady Byron reported that Mrs. Colonel Leigh, half sister of Lord
Byron, had one or more children to her half brother. The English
nation treated the scandal with the contempt that it deserved, by sub-
scribing to, and erecting a statue to Lord Byron in London ; that the
whole scandal was pure imagination in Lady Byron's own mind, there
is no question or doubt, and that it was created by her own jealous dis-

position. The nativity of Lord Byron proves that it was absolutely
impossible for such a disgraceful occurence to have taken place.

Any Astrologer who examines the horoscope of Byron will see at

once that it was impossible for any harmony to have continued between
his half sister and himself, as the planet Mercury is in the 3d house, (the

house of brothers and sisters,) and is almost in exact opposition to the
Moon, (the Moon is always the co-significator in a nativity,) therefore
it is much more likely that there would be constant unpleasantness or
enmity, between Mrs. Leigh and Lord Byron, rather than strong affection

or love, and that they would disagree much more when children than
the average family of brothers and sisters. In addition to the above
testimony Mars, Byron's ruling planet, is applying to an opposition of
Mercury, in the 3d house, which shows the very opposite of affection

and love between himself and his half sister.

I have inserted the horoscope of Lord Byron chiefly to point out the

falsehood of Lady Byron's scandalous report, and also to explain their

unhappy married life, according to the principles and rules of Astrology.
Also to explain by the same science, that there would be a similar bitter

feeling, almost hatred between Lord Byron and his half-sister that there

was between him and Lady Byron, as the Moon makes the same aspect,

in relation to brothers and sisters, that it did for marriage—that is, the

Moon applied to an opposition of Mercury in the 3d house, (the house
of relations,) and also to illustrate the unhappiness or even hatred and
suspicion which it often produces in families, when parties getting

married, disagree and separate.

There is no doubt that the feelings which Lord Byron expressed in

his "Farewell to England" has been the sentiment and feelings of
thousands of persons who have been divorced from their life partners

and that if the method of the Chinese and East Indian people could be
adopted of comparing horoscopes before marriage these unhappy unions
could be avoided and it would prevent those bickerings, quarrels and



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 329

separations, and might even be the means of promoting lasting happiness,

in families similar to what is stated to exist in the East Indies and China.

In my practice I have noticed that horoscopes indicating unhappy
marriages often run in families. When Lord Byron's father and mother
quarreled and separated, it is not to be wondered at that Lord Byron
should separate also frOm his wife. Also in the case of Lillian Russell,

her father and mother did not live harmoniouslv, and so I might mention
hundreds of other similar cases which have come under my notice.*

Even those men and women who have succeeded in getting divorces,

have often expressed their feelings on the subject by saying that if

they married a second time they would not go through the anxiety of
getting a divorce again, even if they were sure their next husband or
wife intended to kill them. Many of these persons who have been
uuhappy in marriage and separated, if they had a good command of
language, would express themselves in prose in similar words that Lord
Byron so elegantly expressed in poetry.f

I have inserted the following poem to show what anguish of mind and
heart it sometimes causes both men and women when marriage results in

unhappiness and separation, and such separation might all be avoided by
the study and application of the principles of Astrology, and following
the practice of the people of the East Indies.

That Lord Byron was very much in love with his wife is shown, by
the line which says: "I bless thee, I woo thee my wife." What a

difference of feeling there is in the above line and the envious, spiteful

hate of Lady Byran towards her late husband who had been dead over
50 years. Yet Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe endeavored to represent
her as a perfect saint. Let us hope that there will be but few such
saints in heaven.

* In December 1897, a member of the Legislature of Ohio introduced a bill in the Assembly,
which if it is passed, would compel every man or woman living in that state contemplating marriage
to go before a doctor to be examined to see if there was any insanity, heredity or contagious
disease, or any other affliction of that nature in either of the parties.

For my part I do not approve of any of those laws compelling people to do so and so, and
inflicting penalties or fines if those laws are not complied with.

Let the people learn that it is to their own advantage and benefit to be satisfied that their life

partner is free from all the above complaints mentioned in the aforesaid bill, then it will not require
any laws on the matter, they wili only need intelligence.

In China and the East Indies and many other countries, the people have learned by experi-
ence that it is to their mutual advantage to compare horoscopes previous to getting married, and
if they had not proved it, it is unreasonable that the system would have continued for such a Jong
period, and I have no doubt that if the people in Europe and America would follow the same
custom, one Court of Justice in New York City would not be turning out divorces at the rate of
15 per day, as I have seen it stated in the newspapers.

It is remarkable that unhappy marriages runs in families; ] have calculated horoscopes in
some families for the past two or three generations without finding one horoscope in these families
where the planets did not indicate an unhappy marriage. It might be as well for these families to
discontinue marrying so that the breed might die out, and make room for families who are fortunate
in a married life.

t When a good Astrologer hears a person speak or sees their style of writing on any sub-
ject, he can generally tell the positions of the planets and their aspects in that person's horoscope.
One evening I heard Lillian Russell's mother lecture on marriage, she was railing against it, as
being nothing but slavery for women.

I knew at once that either she had Saturn or Mars in the 7th house (the house of marriage,)
or the Sun first mode an evil aspect of one of these planets for marriage. When I procured her
time of birth I found that she had Saturn in the 7th house, and the Sun first made a square of
Mars for marriage. No wonder she was opposed to women marrying.



! ! ; ;

330 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

BYRON'S FAREWELL TO ENGLAND.
Oh ! land of my fathers and mine, Then why should one frailty like mine,
The noblest, the best, and the bravest Repented, and wasli'd with my tears,

Heart-broken, and lorn, I resign Erase those impressions divine,
The joys and the hopes which thou gavest. The faith and affection of years?

Dear mother of Freedom ! farewell ! Was it well, between anger and love,
Even Freedom is irksome to me ; That pride the stern umpire should be ;

Be calm, throbbing heart, nor rebel, And thot heart should its flintiness prove
For reason approves the decree. On none, till it proved it on me ?

Did I love?—Be my witness High Heaven ; And, ah ! was it well, when I knelt,
That mark'd all my frailties and fears ; Thy tenderness so to conceal,

I adored—but the magic is riven ; That witnessing all which I felt,

Be the memory expunged by my tears ! Thy sternness forbade thee to feel.

The moment of rapture, how bright Then, when the dear pledge of our love
How dazzling, how transient its glare ! Look'd up to her mother and smiled,

A comet in splendor and flight, Say, was there no impulse that strove
The heraid of darkness and care. To back the appeal of the child ?

Recollections of tenderness gone, That bosom, so callous and chill,
Of pleasure no more to return ; So treacherous to love and to me

A wanderer, an outcast, alone, Ah! felt it no heart-rending thrill,
Oli ! leave me, untortured, to mourn. As it turn'd from the innocent's plea?

Where—where shall my heart find repose? That ear, which was open to all,

A refuge from memory and griefJ Was ruthlessly closed to its lord;
The gangrene, wherever it goes, Those accents, which fiends would enthral,
Disdains a fictitious relief. Refused a sweet peace-giving word.

Could I trace out that fabulous stream, And think'st thou, dear object,—for still
Which washes remembrance away, To my bosom thou only art life,

Again might the eye of Hope gleam And spite of my pride and my will,
The dawn of a happier day. I bless thee, I woo thee, my wife !

Hath wine an oblivious power ! Oh ! think'st thou that abscence shall bring
Can it pluck out the sting from the brain? The balm which will give the relief?

The draught might beguile for an hour, Or time, on its life-wasting wing,
But stili leaves behind it the pain. An antidote yield for thy grief?

Can distance or time heal the heart Thy hopes will be frail as the dream
That bleeds from the innermost pore? Which cheats the long moments of night,

Or intemperance lessen its smart, But melts in the glare of the beam
Or a cerate apply to its sore? Which breaks from the portal of light ;

If I rush to the ultimate pole. For when on thy babe's smiling face
The form I adore will be there, Thy features and mine intertwined

A phantom to torture my soul, The finger of Fancy shall trace,
And mock at my bootless despair. The spell shall resistlessly bind.

The zephyr of eve. as it flies, The dimple that dwells on her cheek,
Will whisper her voice in mine ear. The glances that beam from her eye,

And, moist with her sorrows and sighs, The lisp as she struggles to speak,
Demand for Love's altar a tear. Shall dash every smile with a sigh.

And still in the dreams of the day, Then I, though whole oceans between
And still in the visions of night, Their billowy barrows may rear,

Will fancy her beauties display, Shall triumph, though far and unseen,
Disordering, deceiving the sight. Uuconscious, uncall'd shall be there.

Hence, vain fleeting images, hence The cruelty sprang not from thee,
Grim phantoms that 'wilder my brain, 'T was foreign and foul to thy heart,

Mere frauds upon reason and sense, That levell'd its arrow at me,
Engender'd by folly and pain ! And fix'd the incurable smart.

Did I swear on the altar of Heaven Ah, no ! 'twas another than thine
My fealty to her I adored? The hand which assail 'd my repose;

Did she give back the vows I had given, It struck—and too fatallv—mine
And plight back the plight of her lord? The wound, and its offspring of woes.

If T err'd a moment from love, They hated us both who destroy'd
The error I flew to retrieve ; The buds and the promise of Spring ;

Kiss'd the heart I had wounded, and strove For who, to replenish the void,
To soothe, ere it ventured to grieve. New ties, new affections can bring?

Did I bend, who had ne'r bent before? Alas ! to the heart that is rent
Did I sue, who was used to command'' What nostrums can soundness restore?

Love forced me to weep and implore, Or what, to the bow ever-bent,
And pride was too weak to withstand. The spring which carried it before?



— — —: ; ;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 331

The rent heart will fester and bleed, Perchance to thy prejudiced eye
And fade like the leaf in the blast Obnoxious my form may appear,

The crack 'd yew no more will recede, Even nature be deaf to my sigh,

Though vigorous and tough to the last. And duty refuse me a tear.

I wander— it matters not where Yet sure in this isle, where my songs
;

No clime can restore me my peace, Have echoed from mountain and dell,

Or snatch from the frown of despair, Some tongue the sad tale of my wrongs
A cheering—a fleeting release ! With grateful emotion may tell.

How slowly the moments will move! Some youth, who had valued my lay,

How tedious the footsteps of years ! And warm'd o'er the tale as it ran,

When valley and mountain and grove To thee e'en may venture to say,

Shall change but the scene of my tears. " His frailties were those of a man."

The stork on the perishing wall They were ; they were human, but swell'd
Is better and happier than I By envy, and malice, and scorn,

;

Content in his ivy-built hall Each feeling of nature rebell'd.
;

He hangs out his home in the sky. And hated the mask it had worn.

But houseless and heartless I rove, Though human the fault^how severe,
My bosom all bared to the wind, How harsh the stern sentenpe pronounced,

The victim of pride and of love, E'en pride dropp'd a niggardly tear,

I seek—but, ah ! where can I find? My love as it grimly denounced.

I seek what no tribes can bestow 'Tis past : the great struggle is o'er ;

I ask what no clime can impart The war of my bosom subsides ;

A charm which can neutralise woe, And passion's strong current no more
And dry up the tears of the heart. Impels its impetuous tides.

I ask it— I seek it—in vain 'Tis past : my affections give way
From Ind to the northernmost pole ; The ties of my nature are broke ;

Unheeded—unpitied—complain, The summons of pride I obey,
And pour out the grief of my soul. And break Love's degenerate yoke.

What bosom shall heave when I sigh? I fly, like a bird of the air,

What tears shall respond when I weep? In search of a home and a rest
To my wailings what wail shall reply? A balm for the sickness of care,
What eye mark the vigils I keep? A bliss for a bosom unblest.

Even thou, as thou learnest to prate, And swift as the swallow that floats,
Dear babe—while remotely I rove And bold as the eagle that soars,

Shall count it a duty to hate Yet dull as the owlet whose notes
Where nature commands thee to love. The dark fiend of midnight deplores !

The foul tongue of malice shall pea! Wife, infant, and country, and friend,
My vices, my faults, in tr.ir.e ear, Ye wizard my fancy no more,

And teach thee, with demcr-iike zeal, I fly from your solace, and wend
A father's affection to fear. To weep on some kindlier shore.

And oh ! if in some distant day The grim-visaged fiend of the storm
Thine ear may be struck wiih my lyre, That raves in this agonized breast,

And nature's true index may say, Still raises his pestilent form,
" It may be—it must be my sire "

! Till Death calm the tumult to rest.

In the early part of March, 1886, a correspondent signing himself J. J. Y., asked the editor
of the New York ''World " for some information about Astrology, and received the following for
his answer, " In this day and genetation, a man who believes that the planets govern our actions
should not let any one know it, such an admission is prima facie evidence of insanity or idiocy,''

Learned men and editors of newspapers are constantly making remarks similar to the above
without bringing a single fact to prove their assertions. In short all the facts that I have gained
from experience and inserted in this book, go to prove the very opposite, so much so that I cannot
but regard all persons who do not '* believe that the planets govern our actions, is prima facie
evidence of insanity or idiocy.*' It certainly proves ignorance or stupidity.

All the nativities that I have given prove this beyond a question, and I am waiting for the
enemies of Astrology to prove the opposite For instance let them produce a horoscope of a person
in which the Moon first makes an opposition of Saturn or Mars or even Mercury, like Lord Byron's,
and prove that they lived happy married lives, or like Lillian Russell, where Saturn is in the
ascendant in opposition to Mars, setting, and prove that they were happy in marriage.

The planets not only have a great influence in controlling our actions, but they control our
thoughts and our speech, We have a remarkable proof of this assertion in Lord Bvron's "Fare-
well to England," Had Byron had a fortunate horoscope for marriage how different his " Farewell "
would have read.

If Byron had had a nativitv like Queen Victrria for marriage, whose Sun made a good aspect
of Jupiter in the midheaven. and Jupiter also lord of the 7th house, then instead of railing against
his wife he would have been praising her and regarding marriage as the greatest blessing that
could come to either man or woman, and like Queen Victoria would not recognize a man or woman
who was divorced from their husband or wife.



332 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

HOROSCOPE OF THE YOUNG KING OF SPAIN.

Alfonso XIII., King of Spain, was born May 17th, 1886, at 0.30
p. m., Madrid, Spain.

This young King was born with 8° of Virgo rising and 5°of Gemini
culminating; Mercury is lord of both the ascendant and midheaven,
and is his ruling planet ; he has Mars and Jupiter in the ascendant.
Mars in sextile to Saturn on the cusp of the 1 ith house, and Jupiter in

close trine to Neptune, and the Sun both culminating.

The Moon is low down in the 3d house, in Scorpio, leaving a good
aspect of Mars, and making a good aspect of Jupiter. The student to

get a personal description of the young King, should read par. 18, page

97, par. 129, page 118, par. 97, page 112, par. 85, page 109, par. 105,
page 1 13, and par. 247, page 1 21, par. 225, page 133, par. 2 14, page 132.

J^L*
•o9

Chart of the Heavens for the Birth of the Young King of Spain,
May 17th, 1886, 0.30 p. m., Madrid, Spain.

As Alfonso grows up he will be rather dark complexioned, near or
below the medium height, not tall, but have a straight walk, rather high
forehead, prominent eyes and nose, fine noble features, and rather hand-
some, but very likely to get a mark or scar on the face in some part of
his life. He will also be very liable to meet with accidents, particularly

to the head, face and abdomen. As he gets older he will become quite

stout, similar to Queen Victoria, as he is born under *he same planet in

the same sign, and then he will look much shorter, but will have a very

gentlemanly appearance, and like the Queen, he will be very ambitious.

Mars in the ascendant in aspect to Saturn in the ) ith house, (the

Louse of friends,) will cause him, when he becomes of age, often to be at



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 333

Alphonso XIII., King of Spain, his Mother, the Queen Regent,

and his Two Sisters.

war with other nations, but he will generally come off victorious, and
gain much renown. His horoscope is fortunate for overcoming his

enemies, both in war and diplomacy.
Jupiter in the ascendant in trine to the Sun near the midheaven, makes

him very benevolent, kind-hearted and affectionate, especially to friends,

for whom he will be willing to make great sacrifices, if they are in need



334 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

or distress. But Saturn in the 11th house will make his friends very
deceitful toward him, and those whom he helps are almost certain to

return evil for good, or become enemies. His horoscope in that respect
is similar to Horace Greeley, as the late editor had Saturn in the 11th
house (or house of friends. *

)

He has what we call a very fortunate horoscope, I think equally as fortu-

nate as Queen Victoria's, as Jupiter in the ascendant in exact trine to

the Sun and Neptune in the young King's horoscope is equally as strong
as Victoria's Jupiter in the midheaven in good aspect to Mars.

Spain will be very prosperous under his reign, and it will become one
of the leading nations of the earth before his death. He will have a

religious tendency, but will be liberal, or opposed to superstition, and
the Catholic Church in his kingdom will undergo reforms during his

reign.

The Sun is the giver of life in this horoscope, and its being so well

dignified by being near the midheaven and in trine to Jupiter in the

ascendant, there is no doubt he will live to be an old man,f the only
danger is, he may be killed in war by fire-arms or by accident, but I

shall expect them to be only narrow escapes. On the whole, he will

enjoy good health, but be liable to suffer from weakness of the stomach,
liver and intestines ; he will also have some kidney difficulty if he does
not lead a temperate life.

He is very likely to marry early in life, and will be very fortunate

in marriage. The first aspect the Moon makes is to Jupiter, although
previous to that it will make an opposition of Neptune, but the native

* Horace Greeley in one of his editorials iw the " New York Tribune " advised his readers to
assist and help one another. He stated that he had often helped people and lent them money, but
it had been his misfortune never to have anything returned to him, except in one instance, when
he received $5.00 in a letter from a person he had formerly lent that amount to, and it was so con-
trary to all his previous experiences that he was astonished, but on looking at the heading of the
letter which contained the $5.00, he found it was written in an " insane asylum." So it will be
the case of the young King of Spain, if ever he has any borrowed money returned to him, he will
know that party has become insane, instead of honest.

t I copy the following remarks of the young King of Spain from the New York Journal of
March 9th, 1898.

" Young Aiphonso XIII. has all the marks of degeneracy apparent in his features. He has the
protruding ears, upon which point of physiognomy Max Nordau lays so much stress; he has a nose
flattened at the point, a sloping forehead and a receding jaw, and he talks with a lisp."

I have often observed that- the planetary influences are much stronger than hereditary tenden-
cies, as they have already been proved in the case of the young King of Spain.

When it was hist cabled over that the young King of Spam was born, it was the general im-
pression that he could not live, having had such a profligate father, who shortened his life by his
bad habits. His mother not bearing the best name for virtue and good conduct, and all his
relations for several generations had not the best of reputation for correct living, yet when I saw
his horoscope, I was convinced that he not only would live to grow up, but live to be an old man,
become very powerful as a King, and be equally as successful during his reign as Queen Victoria
has been during hers.

When Victoria Alexandria was likely to become Queen of England, the impression was general
that she could not live, as all her forefathers had been unfortunate in their married lives, and in-
sanity ran in the family. Her father and most of her relations died young. Her grandfather,
George III. was insane for many years, and her uncle George IV. had led a very profligate life,

did not live with his wife, and her own mother did not have the very best of reputation, as
King William accused her of not treating her daughter properly. Her great great grandfather and
her great grandfather, George I. and George II., had very bad reputations for morality, and yet
Queen Victoria has led a very honorable and virtuous life, and has been a pattern for the wives of

nil.

Such horoscopes as the young King of Spain and Queen Victoria's, appear to defy all hereditary
taints, and the planetary influences seems to overcome all degenerating tendencies. No matter
what kind of ears, nose and sloping forehead the young King has, he will prove to the sorrow of
the Kings and Emperors of Europe the fortunate planetary influences in his horoscope.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 335

never marries the person indicated by the planet Neptune, it will only
be a disappointment; very likely to marry when a little over 21 years of
age. His wife will be above the medium height, dark complexioned, with
dark hair, oval face, high forehead, well built but not stout ; a very
good carriage and figure, clear or fair skin and handsome features, and
somewhat older than himself. For a personal description of the lady the

student should see par. 85, page 109, also par. 225, page 133. They
will live very happily and both be contented with each other. His wife
is likely to live to a good age, but he will outlive her. She will bring
him much wealth or territory and influence. His wife will not have a

large family of children, probably not more than two or three, of which
only one may live, as Saturn is lord of the 5th house, and is in exact
opposition to its own sign, and leaving a square of Uranus and making
a square of Venus in the 8th house, (the house of death.) She will

have more boys than girls.

Spain will be equally as fortunate under the reign of King Alfonso

XIII. as that of Great Britain under Queen Victoria, the former having

Jupiter in the ascendant, in close trine to the Sun and Neptune, culmin-

ating ; it is as strong as Victoria's Jupiter in the midheaven, in sextile

to Mars in its own sign in the 12th. The Prince was born under Mer-
cury in Taurus, in the 9th house, which is stronger than the ruling planet

of Victoria in the 12th house.
The young King generally enjoyed fair health during his early years,

but he had an evil time when he was 2 years old, very probably suffered

from some severe fever, when Mars came by direction to the ascend-
ant ; also another marked evil aspect occured when 7 years old when
his life was in great danger. He had a number of evil aspects that

commenced about January 1st, 1895. In that year Uranus was transit-

ing over the Moon's place in bis horoscope. In January, 1896,
Saturn was transiting over his Moon's place which continued to afflict

him nearly the whole year. At the same time Uranus came to an
opposition of his Neptune and Sun's places, which continued all the year.

From May 1st, 1897, to about the middle of November, he had both
Uranus and Saturn transiting in opposition to both Neptune and the
Sun's places. He and the kingdom of Spain would have felt those evil

influences more than they did, if it had not been that during this time,
both Uranus and Saturn were in close good aspect to his Jupiter's place
in the ascendant, which modified the evil influences and made Spain vic-

torious, but as it was, one misfortune after another befell the nation and
colonies, which caused much suffering to both ; but those evil aspects
have now passed. He has an evil aspect commencing about Feb. 1st,

and continuing to the middle of May, 1898. Saturn will be in evil aspect
to Mars's place, and afflicting the 4th house during that time, and Spain
is likely to be embroiled in serious difficulties, and his own life may be
threatened by accident or fire-arms

; disturbances and riots, both in

Spain and in her colonies, and danger of sickness, accidents or death to

his mother is also likely, but after May 1898, the influences gradually
improve. He will be very fortunate when he arrives at the age of 22,
and Spain will become very prosperous.



33 6 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

HOROSCOPE OF THE MULTI-MILLIONAIRE, JAY GOULD.
This gentleman was born under the planet Mercury, in the last degrees

of Gemini, with that sign on the ascendant, and applying to a trine

aspect of Saturn, a sextile of Mars, and a trine of Uranus. Six planets
were rising. Neptune htd culminated, and Saturn and the Moon had set.

These positions of the heavenly bodies would describe a person near or
below the medium height, slender built, thin face, prominent nose,
sunken eyes, of a thoughtful tendency, dark complexion and dark hair.

For a persona] description of him, see Mercury in Cancer, (not Mercury
in Gemini,) as we always describe a person as indicated by the planet in

the following sign, or the sign that it is near entering, when it is over 28
degrees in the sign it is leaving. Therefore the student will read for

? *%

Chart of the Heavens for the Birth of Jay Gould,

May 27th, 1836, at 5.35 a.m., Roxbury, N. Y.

the personal description of Jay Gouid, Mercury in Cancer, par. 131,
page 118, par. 15, page 97, par. 220, page 133, par. 138, page 134, par.

209, page 132, and also the Moon in the sign Libra, as the Moon is

always co-significator in a nativity, and especially in this horoscope, as

the Moon is applying to a trine of the planet Mercury, see par. 146,
page I 20, and by combining the whole, the student will get a very good
description, both physical, mental and moral of the late Mr. Jay Gould.

Mercury is near entering a sign in which it has no dignities, but is

not otherwise afflicted, so we can not say in this case Mr. Gould was a

"very mean little wretch."
One of the main reasons why I have inserted this horoscope is to show

the influence of the two most fortunate planets, Jupiter and Venus, in



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 337

the 2d house (the house of money) unafflicted, except a square of the

Moon, which is not counted an affliction ; old authors say that that as-

pect is more fortunate than a good aspect of the Moon to Saturn or

Mars. Jupiter is in its exaltation on the cusp of the 2d house in Mr.
Gould's horoscope, which makes the money house very fortunate indeed
for accumulating wealth, though the close opposition of Mars and
Saturn, and the square of the Sun and Uranus, did not make him very
particular as to the methods of accumulating it; these evil aspects, par-

ticularly the opposition of Mars and Saturn from the house of friends,

gave him but few friends who had confidence in him.

No doubt if he had been more honest, and had treated his friends or
business associates with a little more consideration, lie would have died

Jay Gould.

much richer than he did. Numbers of men have told me they would
have nothing to do with him or his stocks under any consideration, for

if he learned they were dealing in any securities, over which he had any
control, he was certain to try to swindle or ruin them.

It would be very easy for people to become millionaires, (particularly

if they were honest,) were they born with Jupiter and Venus strong in

the house of money and unafflicted. See par. 2, page 90. One with
such a horoscope could not fail to become rich. Mr. Gould accumulated
most of his wealth by planning and scheming, and actually robbing
others.

There is no question but Mr Gould was one of the smartest men
there ever was in Wall Strtec , his significator, Mercury, is in Gemini
in the ascendant, making a trine of Satuin and a sextile of Mars, which



338 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

made him very smart, a close calculator, and caused him to seldom make
a mistake in his calculations.

This horoscope does not indicate one that would live to an old age,

as the ascendant is the giver of life, and Mercury is in the ascendant,
and in the last degrees of Gemini, in good aspect to the Moon, Saturn
and Mars, which would cause him to live to a fair age, but he never
would be remarkably strong. No doubt he died from some weakness of
the chest or stomach, and suffered from indigestion or liver difficulty.

The horoscope is fortunate for marriage as the Moon first makes a

trine aspect of Mercury in the ascendant. Jay Gould and his wife
would live rather harmoniously and pleasantly together, but on account
of the Moon making a conjunction of Saturn and an opposition of Mars,
at the time it made a trine of Mercury, his wife would not live to old
age, and he would outlive her ; she would have delicate health and seldom
be strong.

Mrs. Gould would be near or below the medium height, rather
slender when young, but after middle age became slightly full built,

oval face, round forehead, rather pale complexion, with brown hair.

For a personal description read par. 131, page 118, par. 220, page 133,
par. 83, page 109, and combine the whole.

In the horoscope of Mr. Gould Saturn is afflicting the 5th house, and
is just leaving a close opposition of Mars in the 1 ith house; the Moon
is separating from a square of Venus, the two planets are not one degree
separated j that alone would indicate some scandal or unpleasantness in

early life connected with love affairs. If the student turns to par. 303,
page 165, he will see the rule for describing the lady a gentleman keeps
company with, but does not marry, and for a description of the lady he
should read par. 1 19, page i 16.

There is no question but there was some improper conduct on her
part, and more than likely a child was born, but that there was no
marriage is almost absolute, as the Moon was separating from the aspect
of Venus ; though possibly the female was made to believe that there
was a marriage, as Mr. Gould would not be troubled with very much
conscience in such matters, especially in early life.

It does not always imply when the Moon is separating from an aspect

of a planet in a male's nativity, even if it is an evil aspect of an evil

planet, or that in a female's horoscope, the Sun is separating from an
evil aspect of a planet, that in all such cases there has always been some
improper condnct between the parties, but it shows strong suspicion.

In Mr. Gould's horoscope Saturn is afflicting the 5th house, (the house
of pleasure,) in such close opposition to Mars, and the Moon just separ-

ating from a square of Venus (the goddess of pleasure,) the aspect is so

marked it would show a very strong suspicion, if not an absolute cer-

tainty, of improper conduct, even if there had never been a whisper on
the subject by any person living.

The Moon in the 5th house, a fruitful planet, and in good aspect to

Mercury, indicated he would have a rather large family, and be some-
what fortunate with them, although they wonld cause him at times, a



ELEMENTS OP ASTROLOGY. 339

world of trouble, especially in their early years, and also it is very
doubtful if his children will be anything like as fortunate as he was on
account of the opposition of Saturn and Mars from the 5th house, (or

house of children.)

Mr. Gould must have had a great many afflictions in his early life,

both from poverty and serious attacks of illness, as all the planets except
the Sun that were above the earth at his birth, were evil planets, and
Uranus in the midheaven always causes serious misfortunes and unex-
pected changes to the native in early life ; but those evil influences are

indicated in a more marked manner by the close opposition of Saturn
and Mars, and those afflictions no doubt had much to do with causing
him to be in stature below the medium.
He had marked evil periods at 1, 2, 7, 8, 1 1, 14. and 15 years of age

;

each of these times would bring serious illness for himself, and misfor-
tunes for his family, but after that age things would begin to brighten up
with him. At 21, 22, 29 and 30 misfortunes would also come, but
afterwards prosperity would begin to smile on him.

I explained to several of my pupils Mr. Gould's horoscope, and
pointed out the evil aspects for illness, as I deemed it an impossibility
for him to live by a certain evil aspect which came up in 1892, as his

horoscope did not indicate a long life ; Saturn's transit over the ascend-
ant (the giver of life,) and Uranus over his Sun's place, and in square
to its own place, his health began to fail in a very marked degree.
These evil influences commenced in Sept., 1890, but they were more
marked in the latter part of 1891, and in the spring of 1892, as Saturn
was transiting over his ascendant all that time, and Uranus over his

Sun's place, but what was most effective in destroying life was when
Saturn came to an opposition of the degree ascending by direction, which
came up in the latter part of 1892. He died Dec. 2d of that year.

Seven Concise Reasons why Everyone should have a Reading of their

Lives, and Strive to Know more of the Science of Astrology.

1. It makes a man or woman acquainted with themselves. It shows
them what profession or capacity of life they are best adapted for, and
in which they will best succeed.

2. It points out most distinctly the times of prosperity and the times

of adversity, thus showing when to push ahead and when to keep quiet.

3. It describes the person you will choose for a wife or husband, and
the kind of persons you should choose for friends, and the persons you
should avoid who will prove to be enemies.

4. It points out the kind of business or profession you should teach
your children for them to be successful.

5. It shows the disease to which the person is naturally subject, also

points out the natwal remedy for such disease.

6. It shows whether a person is liable to accidents or not, and if so

when they are in most danger of these accidents.

7. It shows a person what part of the country or world they will be
most prosperous in and enjoy the best health.



34° ELEMEN'S OF ASTROLOGY.

HOROSCOPE OF CHARLES DICKENS.
Mr. Dickens called on Prof. Wilson, an astrologer in London, to

have his horoscope calculated, and he afterwards made use of it in one
of his novels. Mr. Dickens gave the time of his birth as Feb. 15th,

1812, at 7.50 p. m. , Lamport, Hampshire, England.
At the above time 24 of Virgo were rising, which makes Mercury in

the sign Aquarius his ruling planet ; that will describe a person of
medium height, slender built, light brown hair and light complexioned

;

he had quick eyes, an intelligent look, and was prepossessing in appear-
ance, but as he grew older he became slightly full built. For his

personal description and mental abilities see par. 138, page 119, par 18,

page 97, par. 140, page 119, pars. 247 and 248, page 135.

>i-3

Chart of the Heavens for the Birth of Charles Dickens, Feb. 15th, 1812,

at 7.50 p. m., Lamport, Hampshire, England.

What made this horoscope so remarkably fortunate was Jupiter in the
midheaven, in the sign Gemini, in almost exact trine to the Sun in

Aquarius in the 5th house, (the house of entertainments or amusements,)
also Venus in an angle in the 7th house, in its exaltation, just setting, in

semi-sextile to the Sun, but in square to Jupiter in the midheaven ; a

square of Jupiter and Venus is counted a fortunate aspect, rather than
unfortunate.)

I have seldom seen a horoscope so fortunate for intellect, and excel-

ling as a writer or speaker ; having the Moon in a cardinal sign,

Aries, which rules the head, and in an angle in good aspect to his ruling
planet Mercury, in a scientific sign, also Jupiter in good aspect in a



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 34 1

Charles Dickens.

scientific sign in the loth house, gives the highest order of intellect, par-
ticularly for scientific subjects, and for being humorous, witty, and
sarcastic in his expressions or remarks. These aspects would also cause
him to have great ambition to rise in the world, and become prominent
and famous.

It would be an impossibility for a person having such a horoscope as

Mr. Dickens to remain in obscurity or in low circumstances ; he would
be certain to rise to prominence and even become wealthy, although he
would be a man that would have very extravagant notions, and live in

an expensive manner; it would also cause him to be very popular with



—

34 2 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOPV.

the people at large and enable him to say and do many things without
injury to himself, that would have brought misfortune, if not imprison-
ment, on any man that had an unfortunate horoscope. Yet the Moon
just leaving a square of Saturn would cause him tc have much trouble
connected with home affairs and domestic life, and even some of his near
neighbors would make trouble for him. Mr. Dickens must have had
much unpleasantness in love affairs previous to marriage, which would
probably delay marriage until 25 years of age. The Moon separating
from a square of Saturn, indicates a lady described by that planet in Cap-
ricorn that he would keep company with but not marry. See par. 303,
page 16^, and for a personal description of the lady, see par., jj, page
107 ; the Moon also made a trine aspect of Neptune, but he would not
marry that lady either. See par. 301, page 164.

The next aspect the Moon makes is a conjunction of Mars in the 7th
house, and being an unfortunate aspect, and to an unfortunate planet,

would not produce much harmony or happiness in married life. See
par. 300, page 164. For a personal description of his wife see par. 92,
page 111, also par. 127, page 117, and combine the two to describe her
temper and her mental abilities. As Venus is in Pisces in the 7th house
(the house of marriage, ) in square to Jupiter, there would never be much
love or happiness between Mr. Dickens and his wife, as it would cause

her to be jealous and suspicious of other women. After living together
for 20 years, and having several children they agreed, by mutual consent,

to a separation. The conjunction of the Moon and Mars in the 7th
house, would cause his wife to have a bad temper and make her tyrannical.

The wife's sister, who probably had much to do with their separation,

and who afterwards kept house for Mr. Dickens, is indicated by the planet
Venus in Pisces in the 7th house, and lady of the (pth-house, (the house
of the wife's relations.) See par. 127, page 1 17, also par. 82, page
109 for her description, temper, etc. She would be much more agree-

able and pleasant in her manners than his wife.

Although Mr. Dickens had several children born to him, still he
would not live harmoniously with them, as the Moon is in square to

Saturn, lord of the 5th house, (the house of children,) and they would
be of little benefit to him, and very probably he did not reside with
them. Mr. Dickens generally would enjoy fair health, but would suffer

much from poverty and misfortune in early life, as Saturn is afflicting the

4th house, and especially its being in square to the Moon would make
much unhappiness for him in early life, and would also cause much
quarreling between his father and mother. He died June 9th, 1870,
when Saturn was in the 4th house in almost exact square to his ascend-
ant and his Venus's place, and Uranus was in the loth house, in almost
exact square to Mars.

"There is a tide in the affairs of men which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune. Omitted,
all the voyage of life is bound in shallows and in miseries " Shakespeare.

Astrology has been accepted and practiced by the greatest and most intelligent minds that have
ever lived. The study of Astrology leaches one of the greatest and most universal "Laws of
Nature " which no other science does teach.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. Q 343

HOROSCOPE OF GEN. ULYSSES SIMPSON GRANT,
Born April 27TH, 1822, at 5.00 a. m., Galena, III.

The time of birth was obtained from Gen. Grant's father, and no
doubt it is correct; if so he was born with 3 of Taurus rising, and
Venus, lady of that sign, in the sign Pisces in the 12th house, in close

good aspect to the Moon in Cancer in the 4th house, and Saturn, Jupiter
and the Sun all in the ascendant, which caused him to be born under
the four above named planets and the Moon.
They would describe a person near or below the medium height, full

built and inclined to be stout, sunburnt or swarthy complexioned, with
rather full face, broad forehead, and lightish brown hair.

In order to get a personal description from this horoscope both physi-
cally, intellectually and morally, the student should read, par. 1 4, page

97, par. 127, page 117, par. 143, page 120, par. 69, page 106, par.

105, page 113, par. 81, page 108, and combine the whole; by so doing
he will get a very good personal description of Gen. Grant as he
appeared in the prime of life. He will also arrive at his disposition and
temperament.
What made Gen. Grant so successful in his battles against the rebels

was his having three superior planets rising in the ascendant, in a fixed

sign, Taurus, and all in close good aspect to Uranus near the midheaven.
Venus in its exaltation inclose good aspect to the Moon in her own sign,

in an angle, contributed also to his success ; and what made Gen. Grant
so unfortunate in early life and practically kept him almost in poverty
up to nearly 40 years of age, was Saturn rising within orbs of the
ascendant and above the Sun and Jupiter, at his birth.

If Gen. Washington had had Saturn rising above his Venus in Aries
at birth, he would have met with much more misfortune, poverty and
distress than he did, especially in early life, and he wonld not have been
so successful as a general, but more likely would have been hung as a

rebel, as Gen. Washington did not have three superior planets in his

ascendant as did Gen. Grant.

Is it not a remarkable coincidence that Gen. Grant and Gen. Wash-
ington should both die of throat disease, and each had Taurus on the
ascendant which governs the throat, and Gen. Grant had Saturn so

seriously afflicting the ascendant by conjunction, and Gen. Washington
had Mars in close opposition to the ascendant, which aspect would be
almost certain to cause his death by some affection of the throat.

Is it not a strong proof of the truth of Astrology, that Gen. Grant
and Gen. Washington should both have been born under the same
planet—Venus—and that in both horoscopes Venus should be on the
cusp of the 12th house, and that Gen. Grant's Venus should be in a short
stout sign, and three planets rising in a short, stout sign, and Washington's
Venus in a tall, light, slender sign, and the Moon also in a tall, slender
sign, and that the personal appearance of both gentlemen should exactly
agree with that indicated in each of their nativities.



344 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

There is a rule in Astrology which the student should try and keep in

mind, and that is, " When the early degrees of a tall or short sign is on
the ascendant, the person is almost invariably short in stature, or at least

they are not tall, but when near 20 of a sign is on the ascendant, it is

almost certain to give a person of tall stature. But the last few degrees
of the sign gives a shorter stature. I have found this almost an invaria-

ble rule in Astrology. What made Gen. Grant so original in planning
and conquering in battles, was Uranus near the midheaven, in close trine

to Saturn, Sun and Jupiter, all in the ascendant. It also made him an
original thinker, and not a fighter of battles according to any special

military rule ; in that respect he was very similar to Napoleon Bona-
parte, who was born under Mars in Virgo, near the midheaven, in close

trine to Uranus just setting.

Gen. Ulysses Simpson Grant.

Uranus near the midheaven caused Gen. Grant to have a great many
ups and downs during his early life, and also caused him many finan-

cial losses and misfortunes in the latter part of his life, as it was near
a mundane square to the ascendant.

Persons born with Saturn in the ascendant generally have to suffer

poverty in their early years and very often are in poor or weak health

all through early life. Saturn in the ascendant and Venus in a watery
sign in close aspect to the Moon, caused him to acquire the habit of
using tobacco and stimulants.

The Moon first made a square of Saturn for his marriage, which cer-

tainly in early married life could not have been very fortunate, or con-
ducive to happiness, although being in the ascendant they would become
much more attached to each other after middle age. For a personal

description of Gen. Grant's wife see par. 69, page 106, also par. 96,



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 345

page 111, which describes a lady near the medium height, full built, pale

complexion, dark hair, and not very refined in appearance or manner.
An evil planet in the 5th house, as Gen. Grant had, is not very good

for children ; they are apt to be extravagant, if not a source of annoyance
to their parents.

It is very seldom that we see a horoscope so strong for overcoming
enemies or difficulties as that of Gen. Grant's, with three superior planets
in the ascendant in fixed signs ; there were very few generals in the army
during the rebellion that had stronger or more powerful horoscopes.

Chart of the Heavens for the Birth of Gen. Ulysses Simpson Grant,

April 27th, 1822, 5.00 a. m., at Galena, 111.

Being born under the planet Venus in the 12th house, (the house of
sorrow,) although in good aspect to the Moon, caused him to have
periods of worry and despondency, even after he became general, and
afterwards President of the United States ; and Saturn, lord of the 1 ith

house, afflicting the ascendant, caused him to be exceedingly unfortunate
in regard to his friends. He would generally be surrounded by
unprincipled people.
The planet Venus in its exaltation rising in close trine to the Moon

in the 4th house in its own sign, indicates that Gen. Grant's name will

last probably as long as the name of the United States.

" The ruling stars above ; by secret laws,
Determine Fortune in her second cause;
These are a book wherein we all may read,
And all should know who would in life succeed."

The history of Astrology is coeval with that of man. It formed the basis of all ancient religions
and mythology, and is indissolubly interwoven with the sacred truths of the Christian religion.



—

34* ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

From Broughton's Monthly Planet Reader, for Sept., 1861.

HOROSCOPE OF PRESIDENT GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Born Feb. 1 ith, 1732, at 10 a. m., Virginia.

" He was a man, take him for all in all,

I shall not look upon his like again." Shakespeare.

"In Mr. Edward Everett's 'Life of Gen. Washington' it states that

in the family Bible now in possession of George Washington Bassett, of
Hanover county, Virginia, the following entry is found '

: George
Washington, son to Augustine and Mary his wife, was born ye 1 ith day
of February, 1732, about 10 in the morning.' And then Mr. Everett
adds that he was accordingly born on the 2 2d of February, new style.

Chart of the Heavens for the Birth of Gen. George Washington,
Feb. nth, 1732, at 10 a. m., Virginia.

" The above time of birth caused Gen. Washington to be born under
the planet Venus, in the sign Aries, with the sign Taurus on the ascend-
ant, and the Moon in Gemini rising, which positions of Venus and the
Moon will describe a person of tall stature, sanguine complexion, and
the planet Mars in his own sign, just setting would cause him to be
of a pensive aspect ; also Venus being in trine to Mars, caused him to

be rather handsome, and of a noble carriage. He would be of a mild
disposition and temper, but firm, yet at times of a very high temper, but it

would soon be over. The Moon being in the sign Gemini, the house of
Mercury, and Venus his ruling planet, would give him good mental abili-

ties, and a very refined turn of mind. He would have a decided taste for

music, poetry, painting, etc. Venus applying to a conjunction of Saturn,



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 347

and Saturn in sextile aspect to Mercury, and Mercury in trine to Jupiter,
would indicate that he would be of a very independent spirit, and
whenever he undertook anything, he would scorn to give it up until

he had brought it to a final issue. Venus in trine to Mars, would cause
him to have a taste for military life, in a just cause, and for gaining
knowledge in warlike implements, etc. But Venus applying to a con-
junction of Saturn would show that if he had had his choice he would
have preferred a retired life, and it would cause him to be of a religious

turn of mind. Venus being in trine to Uranus, would show that he was
quite original, in his thoughts and actions, and would never be an imi-

tator. The aspects in Gen. Washington's horoscope would indicate
that the most remarkable trait in his character would be perseverance.

Gen. George Washington.

Marriage.
" The Moon first makes a square of Venus in this horoscope, and

the planet Mars being in the seventh house, (house of marriage)
would indicate that the lady he married would be denoted by the above
two planets, but chiefly by the planet Venus, which will describe a

person about the middle stature, well built, but rather corpulent, round
face, good complexion, and dark hair. In temper rather passionate,

but soon over. The quality of the mind would be ingenious, active in

gaining knowledge ; she would likewise be very proud, and of an inde-
pendent spirit, and rather fond of dress and company.
"The time of Gen. Washington's marriage would be when he was

near twenty-seven years of age, while the planet Jupiter was transiting

over the loth house, in good aspect to his own place, and I should say

that it would then be a fortunate time for him generally.



34-8 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

" We have not space to notice all the fortunate and unfortunate
periods of his life, but might mention that at ten years and again at

fifteen years of age were unfortunate periods for him; and also at twenty
years of age was another unfortunate period. But the most fortunate
period was in 1787 when he had Jupiter passing over the ascendant and
over the Moon's place, besides several other fortunate aspects; and then
again at fifty-seven years of age, when he was elected President for the
first time.

Children.

"Leo, a barren sign, being on the cusp of the 5th house (the house of
children) and Virgo another barren sign, being intercepted in the 5th
house, and the Moon in Gemini, another barren sign, all would indicate
that his wife would not have any children to live.

" On the whole, Gen. Washington's horoscope is one of the most
remarkable I have ever examined, and if space permitted to make all the
calculations, and trace them through his whole life, and see how they
agreed with the events that happened to him, it would go far towards
proving Astrology a true science."

For the description of Gen. Washington, First, physically, as indi-

cated by the planets at the time of birth si_e par. 116, page 115, par.

44, page 102, par. 142, page 120, par. 14, page 97, par. 99, page 112.

Second, his mental qualities see par. 138, page 119, par. 86, page 109,
pars. 229 and 230, page 133, par. 142, page J 20, par. 220, page 133.
Third, his temper, etc., see par. 256, page 137, par. 220, page 133,
par. 236, page 134. For the personal description and mental faculties

of his wife, see Venus in Aries, Mars in Scorpio, and Venus in trine to

Mars.

The Sun, lord of the 5th house (house of speculation, etc.,) is in the

llth house in opposition to the Part of Fortune in the 5th house. This
caused Gen. Washington to be generally unfortunate in card playing, and
he refers a number of times in his diary to his bad luck in gambling. The
enduring good name that Washington has received is indicated by Mer-
cury being in a scientific and human sign in the midheaven, unafflicted

;

also the close trine of Mercurv to the planet Jupiter setting ; a sex-

tile aspect of both Jupiter and Mercury to Uranus, near setting, and
Mars being in its own sign in an angle just setting, also the Moon rising

and leaving a good aspect of Mercury and Jupiter, and the Moon not
afflicted by any planet.

The Moon in the 2d house, (the house of money,) caused Gen.
Washington to be very careful in regard to money matters, and to keep a

strict account of his expenses.

Had Gen. Washington studied to be a physician instead of a soldier,

he would have left an enduring name, and would have been exceedingly
successful in his practice, as is indicated by Jupiter in the 6th house, (the

house of sickness,) and in close good aspect to Mercury in the mid-
heaven, and applying to a good aspect of Uranus on the cusp of the 8th
house. His very presence in a sick room would have been beneficial to

s



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 349

his patients and they would have got well, even if he gave them nothing
but cold water. It is very seldom that we see a horoscope so remarkably
fortunate for being successful as a doctor.

Mr. Elkanah Watson gives a very interesting account in his diary of

his visit to Mount Vernon in 1785. On his journey he had taken a

severe cold, it being a harsh wintry day, and he coughed excessively.

Washington pressed him to take some remedy to relieve it, but he de-
clined. After retiring his cough increased ; Washington during the

night entered his bedroom, and came to the bedside with a bowl of hot
tea in his hands to relieve his cough.

I give this illustration of Washington's tenderness and kindness to

persons when suffering from illness. Had Washington prescribed a bowl
of hot tea for himself during his last illness, instead of being treated by
the Allopathic doctors, it is probable that he might have lived to witness

the prosperity of his country for a number of years longer.

Prof. Draper on William Lilly's Astrology.

On page 183 and 184 of this work under the heading "Medical
Astrology," I gave an account of Prof. Diaper, of this city, publishing an
article in " Harper's Magazine," ridiculing William Lilly and his work
on Astrology. I there stated if Dr. Draper had wanted material for a
Farce or a Comic Opera for the college students, he need not have gone
back two hundred years in search of it. Such material he might have found
in his own countrv and within one hundred years, and in his own system of
treating disease, or what is called the allopathic practice of medicine. If
not too serious a matter for jest, the last illness and death of Gen. George
Washington, and the treatment by the allopathic doctors for croup at that
time, would be a splendid subject for an audience of Medical students, and
cause them to split their sides with laughter over, if they could only disabuse
their minds of the idea that it was a real tragedy. However I give the
account of the treatment of Gen. Washington's last illness as published by
his physicians and will let the student judge for himself.

Sickness and Allopathic Treatment of Gen. George Washington.

Most of the prominent or wealthy men ami women of this country have been helped out of
this world by the doctors. I refer to the death of Gen. Washington, Vice-President Hendricks,
Brigham Young, Roscoe Conkling and Gen. Grant, and I might mention hundreds of other
names. " I could a tale unfold," in the treatment of the last sickness of any of these men, but
I will only touch upon the doctor's allopathic treatment of the first named gentleman. I choose
this one on account of his name being more generally known than any of the others ; and
for the reason that ;here cannot be a question raised in regard to the last treatment of Gen.
Washington by the allopathic doctors, as we have the account of it signed by his attending
physicians. Also I believe it is not generally known by the people of the United States that Geo.
Washington did not die a natural death, but was murdered by his doctors. And bear in mind, in
publishing these statements, that I do not refer to the lower class or the most ignorant of the allo-
pathic doctors, but on the contrary to those who are the leaders in this particular practice, and
to those who are determined that we shall have no other system of medicine.

Gen. Washington appeared to have had a charmed life until he met with those allopathic
doctors. I belie-'e in a'l the battles in which he was engaged, he never received a wound, and
was but seldom ill. During the retreat of Gen. Braddock, there was an Indian who afterwaids
stated that he (the Indian) took deliberate aim, and shot at Col. Washington, some six or eight
different times, and yet he missed him every time, although the Indian was counted a "good shot.''
Therefore he came to the conclusion that Washington was protected by the Great Spirit. But
after the allopathic doctors beuan doctoring him, his charmed life soon vanished from the world.

I copvthe last treatment of Gen. Washington from the "' Botanic Medical ReformerandHome
Physician,'''1 published by Dr. Henry Hollembaek, in Philadelphia, Pa, Dec ioth, 1840, Vol. 1,

No. 7. Dr. Henry Hollembaek was professor of Materia Medica and Therapeutics in the medical
college from which I graduated.



—

35° ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

I have seen the same report of Gen. Washington's last sickness printed in an English allo-
pathic medical work, and it was there published as a specimen of the American heroic practice
of medicine And no doubt the reader will come to the conclusion that it was even more heroic
than the treatment of Mr. Maybrick, who died in Liverpool, England ; as Mr. Maybrick was
under t lie doctor's treatment for near three weeks before they succeeded in killing him, whereas,
Gen. Washington was only under his doctor's treatment for a little over twelve hours. Yet during
that short period he was bled copiously at three different times, and once the night before. And
they gave him 20 or 30 grains of Calomel, 5 or 6 grains of Emetic Tartar, besides the blisters
and other treatment, enough to kill any man.

The Physician's Report of Gen. Washington's Last Sickness.
" Some time in the night of Friday, the 13th of December, 1799, having been exposed to rain

on the preceding day, Gen. Washington was attacked with an inflammatory affection of the upper
part of the wind-pipe, called in technical language cynanche trachealis. The disease commenced
with a violent ague, accompanied by some pain in the upper and fore part of the throat, a sense of
stricture in the same part, a cough and a difficult rather than a painful deglutition, which were soon
succeeded by a fever and a quick and laborious respiration. The necessity of blood letting sug-
gested itself to the General, he procured A BLEEDER in the neighborhood, who took from his
arm in the night, TWELVE or FOURTEEN OUNCES OF BLOOD ; he would not by any
means be prevailed upon by the family to send for the attending physician till the following morn-
ings who arrived at Mount Vernon at about eleven o'clock on Saturday, December 14th. Discov-
ering the case to be highly alarming, and foreseeing the fatal tendency of the disease, two consult-
ing physicians were immediately sent for, who arrived, one at half past three, the other at four
o'clock in the afternoon. In the interem were employed TWO COPIOUS BLEEDINGS, a
blister was applied to the part affected, two moderate doses of CALOMEL were given, and an
injection administered, which operated on the lower intestines—but without any perceptible advan-
tage, the respiration becoming still more difficult and distressing.

" Upon the arrival of the first of the consulting physicians it was agreed, as there was yet no
signs of accumulation in the bronchial vessels of the lungs, to try the result of ANOTHER
BLEEDING, when about THIRTY-TWO OUNCES of BLOOD were drawn without the

;

smallest apparent alleviation of the disease. Vapors of vinegar and water were frequently inhaled,
TEN GRAINS OF CALOMEL were given and succeeded by REPEATED DOSES OF
EMETIC TARTAR, amounting in all to five or six grains, with no other effect than a copious
discharge from the bowels. The powers of life seemed now manifestly yielding to the force of the
disorder. Blisters were applied to the extremities, together with a cataplasm of bran and vinegar
to the throat. Speaking, which was painful from the beginning, now became almost impracticable ;

respiration grew more and more contracted and imperfect, till after eleven o'clock on Saturday night,
retaining the full possession of his intellect, when he expired without a struggle /"

James Craik, Att. Physician,
Elisha C. Dick, Con. Physician.

If any one can read the above account of Gen. Washington's death without a struggle, I
give him credit for stronger nerves than I possess. When these doctors put themselves in evidence,
and were their own judge and jury and convicted themselves, it is reasonable to suppose they
did not make their case any blacker than they could help. On the contrary there is no doubt that
" not one half has been told." I have read in several lives of Gen. Washington that " he begged and
prayed for the doctors to let him alone, and let him die quietly," and there is no doubt but what
they tortured him to death by their bleeding, blistering and poisonous medicines.

Dr. Craik and Dr. Dick published the above report as the regular treatment for Croup, and
the abstracting of over a half gallon of blood in twenty-four hours, and the number of blisters and
the quantity of poisonous medicines administered in that short time, as in no way extraordinary in

treating cases of Croup ; yet I cannot but believe if any doctor was to treat a similar disease in
that manner at the present day, it would cause a sensation if it was published and the patient died.

Dr. Hollembaek in his comments on the sickness and treatment of Gen. Washington says :

" Had the physicians in attendance administered a syrup, the basis of which should have been
Lobelia Inftata, with a little milder treatment on the botanic plan, they would not have deprived
that great and good man the pleasure of beholding a little longer the freedom and prosperity of
that country for which he had so assidiously labored to achieve. The destruction of such a man as
Washington by the means mentioned above, shou'd be indeed, a warning never to be forgotten, and
we sincerely hope that our friends and the public will profit by it. We hope this case will prove a
warning, not only to the physicians of the allopathic school, but to individuals who mav need medical
aid. Let them shun this deadly instrument, the lancet, also calomel and all similar poiso7is. as
they would shun the fatal sting ofthat reptile which lias been chosen as the emblem of the allo-
pathic school of medicine, the wily and deadly serpent.'1 ''

What a slaughter of innocents must have occured fifty or one hundred
years ago when they were bleeding the patients for every complaint in

the nosology of diseases, and prescribing their depleting remedies. Even
in my own time and what I have observed of the allopathic practice of
medicine, in the words of Hamlet's father's ghost, " I could a tale

unfold whose lightest word would harrow up thy soul and freeze thy
young blood."



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 35 I

If Prof. Draper had wanted another case for a farce for the entertain-

ment of his college students, the treatment of Mr. Maybrick, Liverpool,

England, in 1 889, who was supposed to have been poisoned by his wife,

would answer his purpose very well. Indeed it is sometimes an impos-
sibility to find out after death whether the patient died from the poisons

of the intended murderer or the poisons prescribed by the old-school

doctors. We have a remarkable instance in that of Mr. Maybrick,
whom his wife tried to poison with arsenic, and whom the doctors

finished with their treatment. The doctors in that case ought to have
been put on trial for their lives, the same as she was.

I copy the following in reference to the Maybrick case from the New
York World, September 6th, 1889 :

MODERN MEDICATION;
Or, the Allopathic Treatment of Mr. Maybrick.

"The practice of medicine in Liverpool is apparently in a state fully justifying the old defini-

tion of a physician as a ' man who pours drugs of which he knows little into a body of which he
knows less.'

" During his last illness of something like three weeks, the late Mr. Maybrick took from the
hands of his physicians the longest and most incongruous list of medicines, of which public record
has yet been made. Here is the catalogue, copied from an English druggists' trade journal :

Morphia suppositories. Bromide of potassium.
Ipecachuanha wine. Antipyrin.
Papain and Iridin solution. Tincture ofjaborandi.
Cascara sagrada, Bismuth.
Nitro-hydrochloric acid. Sulphonal.
Tincture mix vomica, Cocaine.
Fowler's solution. Nitroglycerine.
Plummer's pill. Dilute phosphoric acid.
Dilute hydrocyanic acid. Solution of chlorine, sanitas, glycerine
Tincture of henbane. and Condy's fluid as mouth washes.
" This list is justly characterized by the trade journal which published it, as ' a jumble of irra-

tional empiricism,' and the question every physician will ask upon reading it is, " What sort of
seventeenth-century quacks are permitted to practice in Liverpool in the last quarter of the nine-
teenth century "

?

Mr. Maybrick was dying of arsenical poisoning, and his doctors helped him to death by
drenching him with pretty nearly.everything they could think of except an antidote for arsenic.
Carminatives, purgatives, explosives and acids were indiscriminately jumbled in the poor man's
stomach."

If Mr. Maybrick or Gen. Washington had lived through the sickness

referred to, they would have felt the effect of their treatment for a long
time afterwards, and might never have entirely overcome the bleeding
and poisonous medicine that the doctors gave them. The great French
Dr. Brown-Sequard's remedy, the Elixir of Life, which made such a

great sensation among all the allopathic doctors a few years ago, both in

Europe and in America, had to be stopped on account of the great de-
struction of human life which it caused, and the great number of cripples

and permanent invalids which it made.
Dr. Koch's remedy for consumption which made such a sensation

all over Europe and America a few years ago, is also a remedy that is

very dangerous to human life. Indeed some say that it is more poisonous
than the bite of a rattlesnake. And besides its being a quack or secret
remedy, its curative effects are yet to be proven.
The late Mr. Pasteur of Paris is reported as saying "

: Up to this

moment, there has not been a single authenticated cure, not even of
lupus. Dr. Bergmann himself has seen a patient suffering from lupus
return to his hospital, fifteen days after having been discharged as cured,



:

352 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

a severe relapse having occured even within that brief interval. More-
over, there is no real certainty as to the consequences of the treatment.
The actions of this medicament is of unheard-of virulence, and the
reactions which it brings on are terrible.

No venom from a snake, if administered in such small doses (two-
tenths of a milligramme) could cause such results. We have therefore
a toxic of such indomitable energy that it may introduce into the organ-
ism disorders the consequences of which no one can surmise, and have
yet.to be studied. You may have seen a report in the medical papers,
that albuminuria and hematuria have been found in a patient who had
been treated for tuberculosis, with very small doses of this lymph. In
fact, it is the kidneys that are particularly affected by it."—(New York
Medical Record, Dec. 27th, 1890.)

I copy the following from the New York Heraid of March 8th, 1891
" We all know, now, says Prof. Verneuil, in a recent clinical lecture delivered at the Hotel

Dieu of Paris, how prompt was the collapse of this famous discovery, and how much remains to-day
of the hopes that had been so lightly placed on a laboratory product, ill defined, untried, badly ad-
ministered and which, in spite of the guarantee of the government of the German Empire, has
produced, since it was foolishly transferred from the guinea pig cage to clinical medicine, nothing
but deceptions and disaster Added to this conies the opinion of Professor Virchow in a paper
read before the Medical Society of Berlin, in which he related the results of twenty one post mor-
tems that lie had performed of persons who had undergone Koch's treatment. Dr. Virchow
declared that the injections increased the number of bacilli and made them emigrate into parts of the
body that had not beeu affected before that, creating in this wav a new disease. The Professor
adds that the lymph invariably produces intense hyperaemia, which endangers the patient's life.

Up to the present time Dr Koch's treatment has not given a single case of recovery, not only of
pulmonary tuberculosis, or even of lupus : on the other hand it has killed a relatively large
number ofpersons who might haz>e lived a long time- When we consider that even those who
survive the treatment present extremely serious symptoms i intense fever, delirium, albumenuria,
hematuria, etc.,) we come to the conclusion that it will be better to wait until Dr. Koch can show
the medical world undeniable cases of recovery before resorting to a therapeutical method which
so far has only produced disaster. And until a case of authentic recovery can be shown I think it

will be better to refrain from speaking of a remedy which all sensible persons have declined to use."

A cure for the Bite of a Rattlesnake.

A short time ago I read in the papers that an allopathic doctor in

Australia had discovered a remedy for the bite of a rattlesnake, and the

remedy was strychnine, to be injected by hypodermic syringes into the
patient, supposed to have been bitten by the rattlesnake.

If the patient died, who could tell whether he died from the bite of
the rattlesnake or from the poisoning of the strychnine. This is a real

specimen of allopathic practice of medicine.
It is a debatable question in my mind whether the liqour traffic or the

allopathic treatment of disease, is the most destructive of human life, and
which produces the most misery in all parts of the civilized world.

Who are the Regulars and Who are the Quacks ?

The reader may think that I am writing at random and making state-

ments of which I have no proof; but, besides my own observations in

regard to the allopathic practice of medicine, I find there are other doc-

tors who have made similar observations. In 1 890, S. E. Chapman, M. D.,

of California, published a pamphlet "Who are the Regulars?" Pre-

vious to doing so he sent to the leading physicians in the principal cities

of the United States the following letter :

" Dear Doctor : I am a great sufferer from indigestion, and apply to

you for a prescription. My appetite is usually good, but a few mouth-



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 353

fuls cause a sense of fullness and repletion, as it I had really eaten a

hearty meal. I cannot eat enough to keep me strong. There is more
or less soreness in the region of the liver. Bowels usually constipated,

with much flatulence of stomach and bowels.
" I don't know but my kidneys are badly affected, for I have soreness

and aching in that region, and I pass a good deal of red sand in my urine.

Naturally I am of a lively temperament, fond of society, but am now
often low spirited. One thing about my case strikes me as being
peculiar : I am always worse from 4 to 5 or from 8 to 9 p. m. This I

have noticed for years, and it is not imagination.
I am a married man, aged 42, fair complexion, weight 135 lbs, height

5 feet 6 inches, occupation, bookkeeper.
Please send prescription by return mail, and find within post office

order for $2.00. Very respectfully, Samuel Boyer, Box 26,
Watsonville, Cal."

The above letter was sent to ten of the most prominent allopathic

physicians in the United States. I have not space to insert all of the
prescriptions that were sent by each of these doctors for the $2.00
received, but will state that they are as opposite as it is possible to make
them, and all of a poisonous nature. I will render some of the names
of these ingredients into plain English, and let the student judge for

himself whether they are at all suitable for the cure of an inflamed
stomach, which was diseased by dyspepsia in its worst form.

Take of Compound Tine. Peruvian Bark. Extract Hyoscyainus,
" " Gentian. Extract Colocynth.

Diluted Hydrochloric Acid. Tincture Nux Vomica. Diluted Muriatic Acid.
Pepsin. Compound Tincture of Peruvian Bark.
Subnitrate of Bismuth. Lady Webster's Dinner Pill (these contain two
Compound Glycyrrhize powder. grains of aloes each.)
Socotrine Aloes. Salicin.
Podophyllin. Sulphate Strychnia.
Sulphate quinine. Sulphate quinine.
Extract of Aloes. Compound Rhubarb pill.
" " Hyoscyamus. Podophyllin.

Lactopeptine. • Powdered Citrate of Potash.
Pulverized Ipecacuanha. Powdered Phosphate of Soda.
Extract Nux Vomica.
The above poisonous drugs from the leading allopathic physicians of the United States were

all intended for one special disease, which disease was well denned.

Some of my readers may think that the letter was sent only to ignorant
allopathic physicians or what are termed quacks, but to satisfy the
student's mind on this point I insert the names of the 10 physicians that

the letter was sent to.

H. I. Bowditch, Boston. Isaac N. Love, St. Louis.
J. E- Darby, Cleveland. W. R. Cluness, Sacramento.
R. Bartholow, Philadelphia. W. F. McNutt, San Francisco.
Chas. T Parks. Chicago. S- O L. Potter, San Francisco.
Austin Flint, New York. J. T. Whitaker, Cincinnati.

The same letter inclosing the $2.00 post office order was sent to ten
leading homeopathic physicians in the United States, and they all pre-
scribed one remedy, and that remedv was not of a poisonous or destructive
nature, but was simply lycopodium, and they all agreed on that remedy
for that disease, and no doubt if this experiment had been extended to

Europe, Asia and Africa, or anvwhere else where there are homeopathic
physicians, they would have all prescribed the same remedy.



354 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

I shall not attempt to decide whether lycopodium is the proper remedy
for all the above-named symptoms in a sick patient. I leave that to the
homeopathic physicians. I shall only touch upon the harmlessness of
the remedy. Lycopodium has been used for ages as a menstruum for

physicians to make up pills with, on account of its harmlessness, similar

to what physicians often use wheaten flour as a menstruum to make up
pills. And lycopodium comes as near what is termed " bread pills,"

without actually being made of wheaten flour, as anything can do.

But what shall we say about the conglomeration of all the allopathic
doctors' prescriptions sent to Samuel Boyer, either to kill or cure him ?

They are as different and as various as it is possible to make them.
One would think to read them that instead of being prescribed for one
particular complaint, that they were almost a pharmacopoeia intended
" for all the ills that flesh is heir to," and no two of them alike ; and
yet the allopathic doctors harp about the science of medicine. Can
there be a bigger farce ? At least the reader must admit that there is

room for improvement. Is it not time that the government of the
United States cried halt ! to this kind of doctoring. And like the
British Parliament, in regard to compulsory vaccination in England, have
an investigating committee appointed to see whether this quackery and
destruction of human life shall continue as heretofore.

All practising physicians, especially the allopaths, ought to bear in

mind that there are certain conditions of the human system in which
drugs have a much more marked, or injurious effect than at other times.

To give an illustration all alchoholic beverages have a much more intoxi-

cating effect when taken into an empty stomach than when the stomach
is full.

I might give hundreds of examples of drugs prescribed by doctors
affecting people seriously, and often destroying life under certain weakened
or diseased conditions of the human system.

Sometimes the authorities are forced, although very reluctantly, to

take notice of these poisonings after taking an allopath's prescription,

but it is only when a patient dies, and there are marked symptoms of
poisoning, as the real cause of death. There was a case of this kind
published in the "New York Sun " of March 13th, 1898, which stated

that Mrs. James L. Carhart of 365 Lexington Avenus, called on Dr.
Trumbell W. Cleveland of 45 West 50th Street, on Saturday April
10th, 1897, in regard to her own health.

She had a child six weeks old with her ; the doctor asked her about
the child's health ; she told him that it was quite well, only some
slight bowel trouble. He advised her to use something to check it; she
protested and said that she did not believe in giving much medicine to

children so young, but afterwards consented to let the child take it, pro-
vided it contained no paregoric ; he gave the following prescription,

which he said was very light, and to be sure that she takes it.

Salol, xliii. gr.
Bismuth, sub-carb, ii. drachms.
Tr. Opii camphor, i. drachm.
Aqua camphor A. D., iii. oz.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 355

It was to be given a teaspoonful every two hours, and she continued
the medicine until Monday, April 12th, 1897, when she sent for the

doctor as the child was breathing very heavily. When he came he gave
her another prescription, which called for 1 1-2 drachms of resorcin in

three ounces of water, the medicine to be given to the baby in teaspoonful

doses every two hours, along with the other medicine. This would
make the dose of resorcin 3 3-4 grains every two hours.

Mrs. Carhart stated to the District Attorney that in about ten minutes
after the first dose the baby gasped, the pupils of the eyes enlarged, and
she turned from a pink color to white ; she vomited slightly, and there

was noticeable the odor of carbolic acid, then she leaned back and
seemed lifeless ; moaned, began to clutch at her mother's wrist, and
soon was in a profuse perspiration, although her hands, face and feet

were cold ; by this time there was a yellow exudation about the child's

nose and mouth, her temples having turned black, and her mouth dark
blue.

The doctor came again and administered brandy and nitroglycerine
into her arms and thighs by hypodermic injections, which caused the
child to scream violently ; the mother interceded, but the doctor said,
" It is heroic treatment, as brandy burns like fire under the skin." The
child continued to breathe heavily, its breathing interrupted occasionally
with a scream. Its skin turned yellowish green, mixed with blue, the
body was heaving in and out, while her eyes were fixed and her hands
useless. The child died on Tuesday evening. The newspapers state

that the matter has been under investigation in the District Attorney's
office for some ten months. The mother says that the child enjoyed
good health previous to taking Dr. Cleveland's prescription, which was
"very light." Dr. Cleveland called in Dr. Thompson in consultation,
and the newspapers state that Dr. Thompson said in an undertone,
"blunder this time." There was no autopsy, and the doctor gave a

certificate of death. Mrs. Carhart has consulted a number of other
doctors since the child's death, and showed them the prescriptions, and
they assert that they were powerful enough to kill a man.

It is but seldom that such instances of poisoning are permitted to get
into print or in any way before the public ; they are generally kept quiet
and the doctor gives a certificate of death, and that ends it.

Of course there will be nothing done to Dr. Cleveland, and the whole
matter will be forgotten.

Had the child been treated by a "Christian Scientist," "Mental
Healer," " Mesmerist," or a' doctor who does not prescribe poisonous
medicines, and had died a natural death without any of these symptoms
of poisoning, the offender would have been taken out of bed at 1 2 o'clock
at night, if necessary, as a common murderer ; the newspapers would have
had a full account of it the next morning, and would have let their
readers know that the child had died without being poisoned by an allo-

pathic doctor, and the reporters would have given notices that all such
disgraceful occurences must be stopped in future and at any cost.



35 6 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

Persecution of Homeopathic and Botanic Practitioners.

During the time bleeding was popular the doctors believed that the
patient must be bled in all cases ; an instance is mentioned by Dr. Guy
of London, in his book on Public Health, where he says one hundred
and forty patients were all bled for one disease, and they all died. Dr.
Samuel Hahnemann of Germany, old Samuel Thompson of this country,
and their followers, suffered martyrdom, nearly one hundred years ago,
for opposing these destructive methods in the treatment of diseases.

There were a number of volumes published by Prof. Simpson, of
Edinburg, Scotland, Dr. Woods, Dr. Hooker, and others at that time,
opposing homeopathy and botanic practice of medicine, which volumes
endeavored to prove that the botanic and homeopathic physicians did no
good to their patients, but that the disease was constantly increasing until

it was too late for the patient to be cured by their own destructive and
poisonous medicines, and all kinds of persecutions were resorted to, x*
break up or put a stop to these two innocent and harmless systems of
the practice of medicine.

At the time of the illness and death of Gen. Washington, a doctor who
attempted to treat fever or any disease, without bleeding the patient

several times, and not using calomel and jalap, emetic tartar, etc., and
the patient died, he would be arrested at once and tried for manslaughter.

We have an instance in the trial of Samuel Thompson, who was
opposed to bleeding, and taking such large doses of poisonous medicine,
which he termed " rats bane."

For years and years the allopathic doctors have been combining and
raising money to influence the legislature and have laws enacted to pre-

vent any person from taking care of or prescribing for sick persons,

without being a regular graduate, and of their school, and have been
doing everything possible to prevent druggists from selling what is called

proprietary or patent medicines, which are in almost all cases composed
of ingredients that are harmless and not destructive to life or health.

On Feb. 17th, 1898, a member of the Assembly of New York State

introduced a bill requiring all patent medicines to have the names and
quantities of the ingredients printed in plain English on a label pasted
on the bottle, so that every person taking the medicine should know just

what they are taking, and which would enable the persons to make up
the medicine for themselves. How much better it would be to have a

law enacted compelling every physician to have printed or written in

plain English the names and quantities of each ingredient in the prescrip-

tion, on a label and pasted on each bottle or package, so that the patient

would know what he is taking, or his friends would know what they are

giving him.
Another member introduced a bill which provides, that if a proprie-

tary medicine, which contains certain named poisons in any quantity

whatever, no matter how small a quantity, the retailer or wholesaler

should affix to the bottle or package, a poison label in red ink, specially

naming the poison and prominently displaying a picture of a skull, and
cross bones, together with the antidote for the particular poison so

advertised.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 357

Such a bill can only have one of two objects. First, to drive the manu-
facturers of such proprietary medicines out of the State, which medicines
are never known to injure any person to any great extent,* or, Secondly,
to blackmail the proprietors of patent medicines, in order to rai p e money
to have the bill killed, either in the Assembly or committee rooms.
The allopathic physicians are trying to have the manufacture of patent

medicines stopped, and no druggist permitted to sell anything without a

prescription from a physician ; they are also trying to have laws enacted
to close up all dispensaries or at least to make them so uncomfortable for

people who visit them, that they will deem themselves more disgraced
than if they were paupers.

Such bills as the above are introduced in State Assemblies, year after

year, at the instigation of the allopathic physicians.

How much more sensible it would be to have a law enacted that all

prescriptions sent out of drug stores should be labeled "poison " in red
ink, and also that there should be displaved on the label a skull and
cross bones, so that people would become more cautious when taking such
prescriptions.

A great many sensible people think that physicians have no right to

doctor unless they use very dangerous and destructive medicines similar

to the prescription of Dr. Cleveland, and that in using them he must be
equally as skillful as expert performers in theatres who place a man standing
with his arms extended and the expert using long knives and so throwing
them that they pin him to the board so he cannot move ; or like a

man who is a good marksman, shooting a lighted cigar from a man's
mouth, or a small ball from his head, and in such actions if the ball or
knife went an inch crooked it would be almost instant death.

But after all, times are changing, and it is a good indication that the
District Attorney is wakening up, and paying some attention to such
cases as the death of Mrs. Carhart's child, even if it is a year after the
death occured, If in the future the attention of the District Attorney
should be called to all such cases as these, which occur almost daily, he
will be kept so busy attending to cases of persons who die of violent
deaths after taking prescriptions, that he will not have time for arresting
and trying people who treat patients who afterwards die a natutal death.

I have given Dr. Draper a number of cases that would make splendid
subjects for a farce or comic opera, and could give thousands of other

* The manufacturers or proprietors of medicines have to be doubly careful in regard to the
ingredients, as they are awlays aware that the person taking such medicines are very careless as
regards the quantity to be taken. If any person dies after taking even a large dose of those medi-
nines. no matter of what disease, the proprietor of such medicine would be liable to be instantly
arrested and when all the doctors in the state would combine to have him severely punished, both
by fine and imprisonment.

To give an instance of how careless some people are in taking medicines, I will mention a case
which came under my observation in England.

A cousin of mine who kept a drug store in Leeds, sold a man a box of pills to act on the
bowels, with directions to only take one pill each night, but that same night he took the whole box
at one time. The effect was fearful, but not fatal.

Had the man been taken seriously ill, or had he died it would have caused my cousin serious
trouble and expense, if not imprisonment. So in regard to any person getting up a patent medicine,
if any one is injured by it, even by taking a whole bottle at a time (when directions are a teaspoon-
ful a day,) and the patient dies, the manufacturer of such medicine wonld get into serious trouble,
and it would completely destroy the sale of his medicines afterwards.



.

35$ ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

cases that have come under my notice, if he could dispel from the minds
of his audience that they were real tragedies.

I had intended devoting some part of this book to " Medical
Astrology," but I find I have not space, but anyone wishing to know
something of this science can read the last 12 pages of this book.

THE OBJECTIONS TO THE SCIENCE OF ASTROLOGY
ANSWERED.

1 The Folly and Knavery of its Professors.
2. The Uncertaiitty of the Science itself as manifested by the

frequentfailure of Predictions.

3. The certainty that Astrology must be false, because it cannot be
true, and therefore no man of learning and sense would believe in it.

The first objection contains more truth than real weight or value.

Formerly when the science was but little known or understood there
were great numbers of impostors, pretending to practice it, but since the

people have commenced to investigate Astrology for themselves, these

pretenders are gradually going out of that kind of business. Therefore
that objection is gradually disappearing, and after a time it will be
entirely gone. The faculty of possessing foreknowledge is so predominant
in our nature, that the desire to gratify it, when not properly trained or
developed, causes it. to become really a temptation, and impostors are

always ready to profit by it where they can. Wise men who studied the

science, although convinced of its truth, were fully aware of its difficul-

ties, and careful how they committed themselves. Fools were not so

scrupulous, and impostors thought of nothing but how they could make
the most of it. At length things came to such a pass that, as Gasendus
remarked, some would "scarcely cut their hair or pare their nails without
consulting the Almanac to see what sign the Moon was in." It may
not be improper to give a hint relative to impostors of the present day
in this city, who charge money for telling that to others, which they do
not believe themselves, whose principle aim is to make money out of a

science they do not understand, and to laugh at the public while they
are robbing them. Wretches like these are infinitely more despicable than
the greatest blockhead on earth, who is sincere. Astrology, however,
must stand or fall by its own merits or demerits and not by those of its

professors. Had the study of Chemistry been abandoned because a set

of fools, urged on by knaves, ruined themselves in the pursuit of the univer-

sal Menstruum or Potable Gold, the world would have been deprived
of a most useful Science.

The second objection, that is, " The Uncertainty of the Science itself

as manifested by the frequent failure of Predictions," seems more plaus-

ible, but it is equally applicable to other branches of knowledge, of which
the truth is not even disputed. We are, for instance, as little acquainted
with the true operations of Celestial Affinities, and the Electric Phenom-
ena of the Planetary Orbs as with the Pathology of the human body,
and probably much less, as we have fewer opportunities of investigating

them ; and 1 would ask not only the medical man, but any man who



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 359

has studied nature, whether in the event of a person receiving a wound
in the hand or foot, he would require the physician to decide as to it

being succeeded by Tetanus. A question like this could only proceed
from extreme ignorance, and would be treated as such. Not one in ten

wounds, nor do I believe one in a hundred, occasions lock-jaw, and yet

the identity of Traumatic Tetanus is as perfect as any other disease in

Nosology.
The partial failures of Astrologers necessarily presuppose partial suc-

cesses. If Astrologers always failed in their predictions, the evidence
against Astrology would be strongly presumptive, though not absolutely

conclusive, in as much as the properties of matter do not result from
man's knowledge of them, but pervades all matter, inherently, prior to

man's existence, and are only yet ascertained to a very limited extent.

When attempts are made to parallel Astrology with many other sciences,

its magnitude and complexity appear so immensely overwhelming, that the

wonder turns not upon the failure of its professors, but rather upon their

frequent successes.

To those who make the third objection, that is, " The certainty that

Astrology must be false, because it cannot be true, and therefore no man
of learning and sense would believe in it," I would recommend pati-

ence, with the assurance that should they by any accident become men
of LEARNING and SENSE themselves, they will probably change their

opinions. Besides, it is but right to inform them, that men of sense

often conceal their knowledge and belief from a conviction that Fools
ARE TOO NUMEROUS AND TOO FORMIDABLE A BODY TO BE TAMPERED WITH.
A little investigation, however, will enable them to discover that a number
of years back, before the spirit of research had been almost subdued by
prejudice, most men of acknowledged ability did BELIEVE IN IT.
Sir Isaac Newton, and also the great and ingenious Kepler,* whose
astronomical discoveries and mental acuteness have never yet been sur-

passed ; and the profound and intelligent Locke, whose indefatigable

spirit of research, may justly shame the brightest genius of the present

age, were all well convinced of the truth of Astrology, and noc ashamed
to acknowledge it. Other names such as Dryden, Richelieu, \ etc.,

of equal celebrity, might be quoted, but no such authority is required to

sanction truth, and the expedient is seldom resorted to except with a

view to blind the ignorant and give currency to prejudice.

As every age brings improvement, " the Society for the Diffusion or

Useful Knowledge" seem to have hit upon a plan of improving this

expedient, by circulating their own names to serve for authorities,

instead of the names of their Predecessors. I forget who it was that

prescribed a list of great men with little minds, as a cure for Hypochon-
driasis, supposing it must operate upon the Nerves through the medium
of the visible muscles. The idea was ingenious, and really when I

peruse the "Diffusion" and compare the names on its covers with the
nonsense in its pages, I am tempted to believe we are in possession of
the very desideratum alluded to. Such a stale, commonplace farrago

* See page 21. t See page 22.



360 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

of physical absurdities was never before let loose upon the uninformed
mass of mankind.

I wish they had given their recipe for making a Universe. That
for putting the Planets in motion when they are made is truly admirable.
The feat, it appears, is performed by a "push given to them at first, and
forcing them onward at the same time that they are drawn toward a

certain point," and again we find that this attractive force which draws
them toward a certain point, is "the same influence or power that

makes a stone fall to the ground." Now of all the pushes I have ever
observed, the original impulse was but momentary, and although the
effect must have remained through all eternity, had there been no ob-
struction, yet where it is, it must be gradually annihilated. A stone
thrown forward, even were there no atmospherical resistance, must pro-
ceed in a parabolic curve, the effect of two conflicting forces, viz :—that

of the first impulse, and the impeding power of gravitation; but the

former being but temporary, and the latter perpetual, the former would
be gradually exausted by the latter, and the stone would in a given time
remain relatively motionless upon the earth's surface. AH that now
remains to be ascertained, is the nature of the Society's "Push." Is it

like other pushes likely to be overcome by a contrary impulse and if it

be, by what means does it still retain its power unimpaired by resist-

ance, undiminished by gravitation ? not to mention the variations at the

apsides which can neither be caused by primitive impulse, or uniform
gravitation. This to me would be " Useful Knowledge," and I should
be happy at seeing it " diffused " as soon as possible. I must however,
caution them that T am not one of those " bipeds " that says " pretty

poll, or polly wants a cracker," simply because I hear some one else say

so, nor am I to be amused by a name or an authority, whether of New-
ton or any one else. I may be wrong in applying to the Society for a

reason of their own, which they have not to give, but I mean to have a

reason, or the fact itself, if it is one, or nothing. Did it ever occur to

those wiseacres, that every distinct body in nature, has like themselves,
a will of its own, differing only .from theirs, in being directed to much
wiser purposes! Could they never find out that the laws of nature are

the wills of nature, exercised for the mutual benefit and preservation of
all its component parts, collectively and individually? could they once
be made to comprehend this obvious truth it would assist them through
many of their difficulties, and among other things, teach them to account
for the "falling of a Stone, a phenomena which seems to puzzle them
extremely; and but for the experience they have to the contrary, "It
is," they say, " quite conceivable that a stone might stand still in the

air or fly upwards, or in any other direction ; and there would be
nothing at all absurd, contradictorv, inconceivable or impossible in either

of these suppositions, as there would be in supposing the stone equal to

half itself, or falling and rising at once," etc. Now. really, how one
positive absurdity can be more "conceivable" than another, is to me
tf inconceivable," but this is the inevitable consequence when lawyers
and statesmen set themselves up for astronomers, astrologers or philoso-

phers. Art is their proper study. They are ignorant of nature, and



1

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 36

should never meddle with her affairs. Every attentive observer perceives

that in all bodies, whether organized or not, each part or member is

interested, and indefatigable in contributing to the preservation of the

whole ; that were it not the judicious tendency of all substances towards
each other, so as to form one common centre of gravity, this globe would
instantly be shattered to pieces ; and that to prevent this catastrophe, a

stone or any other substance left at liberty, rushes towards the centre, or
as it is vulgarly termed, "falls to the ground."
We come now to the choicest morsel of the whole, namely, their

" Astrological aphorisms," the major part of which will be found in a

work of theirs, called " Companion to the Almanac" containing a

choice collection of Apophthegms, a smart philippic or two against
" Moon and Star Men" and " The Nonsense of Astrology," and an
oblique hint at the means by which they acquired all this knowledge,
which it seems was through having " intelligence and good sense, as lords

of their ascendants."
At page 23, we are told, " that the revolution of the heavenly bodies

produces the appearances of the seasons and nothing more." At page
24, the " Seasons " are left to shift for themselves, and the " Celestial

Bodies exert no other influence than that of gravitation upon the
earth "

; and at page 27, they are all, except one, turned out of office,

in consequence of the discovery, that " being all much more remote from
the earth than the Moon, they have NO INFLUENCE WHATEVER
upon the changes of the Seasons, or upon anything that in any way affects

the comfort or the ordinary pursuits of mankind. " If any one can rec-

oncile this discordant trash, I should be happy to find myself in the list

of his acquaintances. Where were " "
Intelligence and Good Sense

that they did not happen to be "Lords of the Ascendant" upon this

occasion ? I fear we have lost even the Sun in the conflict, He is

much more remote from the earth than the Moon," being 400 times
her distance—he is one of the OUTS.

I need not insult the reader's understanding by any comment, but
pass onward, or rather backward to the story of their conversion, which
the reader may find at page 21, and as this is a very curious document,
I shall insert the passage, verbatim.

" That the different Phases of the Moon have SOME connection with
changes in the atmosphere is an opinion so UNIVERSAL and
POPULAR, as to be on THAT ACCOUNT ALONE entitled to

attention. No observation is more general, and on no occasion perhaps
is the almanac so frequently consulted as in forming conjectures upon
the state of the weather, the common remark goes no further than the
fact that changes from wet to dry, and from dry to wet, happen at the
changes of the Moon ; when to this result of universal experience we
add the philosophical reasons for the existence of Tides in the Aerial
Ocean, we cannot doubt that such a connection exists, and that the
Moon exerts considerable influence upon the currents of the air accord-
ing to her position. The subject, however, is involved in GREAT
OBSCURITY, and is one which can only be elucidated by long and
careful observation." (See page 269.)



362 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

This is what I have been endeavoring to prove and elucidate in this

book, as the foundation of the science of Astrology, or what the Society
calls the "Nonsense of Astrology," and when we reflect that "The
Society'''' themselves, like the man who had been talking prose all his life

and did not know it, have been Astrologers all the time, without having
the wit to discover it, the thing seems scarcely credible

; but we find

the whole is justly attributed to that noted Enchantress, " UNIVERSAL
AND POPULAR OPINION," who with all the persevering malignity
of a fairy, seems never to have quitted those poor victims of her delu-
sions one moment from that of their birth to the present hour. 'Twas
she, who in disguise of the scholastic dogmas, and popular prejudices,
first taught them to deny, without having a single fact to disprove the
truth of Astrology, and then in the garb of " Universal and Popular
Opinion," compelled them to believe in it, leaving them to extricate
themselves from the horns of the dilemma as well as they could. In
addition to these calamities, they are, through some fatality, always
in the wrong, like all other persons who meddle with things they know
nothing about, even when they happen to take the right side of a

question. The weather does not change with the Moon, but four or
five days before it, and the period is the longer the nearer the Moon is

to the Apogee. That the subject is "involved in great obscurity," is

owing to meddlesome persons like themselves, who are like the tailless

fox in the fable, continually exerting themselves to persuade others into
their own condition. It is strange they cannot be persuaded to stick to

their lasts, and remain within the very limited sphere for which nature
designed them. Really, men like those who are merely the echoes of
others opinions., without possessing one original idea of their own, whose
minds are so superficial and unreflecting as not only to be incapable of
perceiving Astrological truths, but even the nature and tendency of their

own ideas—men like those, should be put under some kind of surveil-

lance, and not allowed to go about filling their own empty phials with
other men's compositions, which they have not the skill to analyze, and
forcing their contents, dregs and all, down the throats of every one they
meet. If they must become teachers of Astrology, (though of this I do
not see either the necessity or the possibility,) they should become
Wards in Chancery, and pursue their studies under proper tutors pro-
vided for them. I think, however, they had better remain as they are,

or rather as they were before they became "Moon and Star Men."
Pikes like these should remain at home in their native rivers, and not
venture to sea. . They may shine at the Bar or in the Senate, where
great pretensions and small intellect are much oftener "Lords of the
Ascendant " than " Intelligence and good Sense," and where, if we
may credit Lord Chesterfield, a knowledge of any subject in question, is

no more essential than a knowledge of " Celtic or Sclavonian" and
where he boasted of delivering, with unbounded applause, a lecture on
Astronomy, while at the same time he was an " utter stranger " to

that Science. In their own spheres they may be Giants, but I am really

serious when I assure them they are mere Pigmies in Astrology.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 363

THE PLANET NEPTUNE
Persons Described by Neptune.

There is less known of the influence of the planet Neptune, in

describing the appearance of the native, than any of the other planets,

except the asteroids.

The personal description of Neptune in the twelve signs comes very
near a combination between the planet Uranus and Venus, and any one
reading the description in the twelve signs of the Zodiac of both these

planets and combining them in his mind, will come very near the personal

description of a Neptune person. Also, if the student reads the conjunc-
tions, squares, oppositions, sextiles and trines of Uranus and Venus, and
combines the two in his mind, he will have a very good description,

physically, mentally and morally, of the rf , , £ , >fc and A of
Neptune to all the other planets.

A Neptune person is generally near or above the medium height,

inclined to be full built rather than slender, slightly dark complexion,
with brown or dark brown hair, rather full face, broad high forehead,
quick eyes, rather prominent nose, and of a somewhat commanding
appearance ; they very often look older than they are ; a Uranus person
looks older than they are, but a Venus person generally looks younger.
Of color Neptune governs a much darker blue than Venus.
The influence of Neptune in a horoscope is, in some cases, very

marked, especially if it is in the ascendant, the 10th or the 7th house;
it is most evil in these houses. In the 7th house it causes very unhappy
marriages, unless the Sun in a woman's and the Moon in a man's
horoscope, makes a good aspect of Venus or Jupiter for marriage.

Neptune's evil directions or transits tell with a vengeance, and if it

happens to be transiting over, or in evil aspect to two or three planets in

angles, the native feels it in a marked degree, especially if those planets

are superior planets, and in fixed signs. Some authors intimate that

Neptune is more evil in its transits or directions than either Saturn, Mars
or Uranus, as it is so long in transiting or going over any particular part
of the horoscope. Neptune travels a little more than 2 degrees and 14
minutes a year; therefore, any person having the Moon 16 degrees, the
Sun 20 degrees in any sign, and Saturn, Mars or Uranus 18 degrees in

the opposite sign, and Neptune coming in evil aspect to those positions,

the evil inflence will be felt lor four or five years. The sickness caused
by Neptune is chiefly of a nervous tendency and of a depressive nature.

Neptune in the Twelve Houses.
Neptune in the 1st house gives a well made person, a rather full face

and forehead, eyes generally a dark blue, full and bright, heavy eyebrows,
much hair, clear complexion, short and thick neck In disposition they
are void of fear, daring, and of a restless nature; practical, ingenious,
intuitive, jealous of those they love, fond of dress and display, worldly
wise, and if in $ $ given to criticising and being criticised. Males

,

who have Neptune in the ascendant are said to be effeminate and debili-

tated; if Neptune be afflicted, they are given to dissolute habits.



364 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

f in the 2D.—Wastes his wealth through profligacy ; and his finances
are uncertain.

f in the 3D.—Long residence in a place, and unexpected removals.

f in the /|th.—Unfortunate in home affairs and property.

f in the 5TH.—Speculations turnout " air castles," and his pleasures
and associates are of a low order

; the native's children are liable to
watery diseases and a poor constitution. If in X in the 5th, he has a
craving for drink, which leads to dissolute vices and depraved habits.

f in the 6th.— Causes the native to be inclined to study medicine,
but is not fortunate with servants, small animals, keeping boarding-house.

f in the 7TH.—The marriage partner is a most undesirable one, and
events inimical to marital felicity are apt to suddenly occur.

f in the 8th.—Denotes a peculiar death; if Neptune is afflicted,

causes a short illness, watery in character, or may be drowned.
f in the 9TH.—Peculiar religious views; fond of occultism, mes-

merism, astrology, and kindred sciences.

f in the ioth.—Great success, with sudden reverses of fortune.

f in the 1 ith.—Low acquaintances and dissolute friends.

f in the 12th.—Danger of imprisonment, or confinement of some
kind ; shrewd and dangerous enemies.

The Aspects of Neptune.

f in good aspect Iff..—Fond of making explorations, interested in

spiritualism, or an investigator of occult science.

f in good aspect ^ .—Speculation, financial success, good hearted.

f in good aspect 21 .—Causes the native to meet with unexpected
good fortune by speculation, inventions, etc.

f afflicting 21.—Denotes that the native will live upon charity at

some period in life, but afterwards become wealthy.

f in good aspect $ .—Fond of the study of palmistry, physiognomy,
also ability for physician or surgeon.

w in evil aspect $ .—Liability to accidents and changes.

f in evil aspect $ .— In a male's nativity it gives large animal pro-
pensities, low associations, also disappointment in courtship or marriage.
With females, thev are liable to lose their virtue early in life, or be
untrue to their marriage vows, young females are liable to assault, etc.

f in good aspect $ .—Makes the native refined, fond of paintings

and music, and of the occult.

f in good aspect £.—Quick, impressional, practical, ingenious, of
oood judgment, intuitive and shrewd, very sensitive, and a good judge
of human nature.

f in evil aspect $ .— Makes a clever deceiver, shrewd, and a good
judge ofhuman nature, glibness of tongue. It gives imaginative complaint:
in the head, excitement, fear, hysteria, nervousness, and in some cases

pretended ailments. It also makes pretenders, and if Uranus afflict

Neptune, bogus astrologers and clairvoyants.

f in A or t J).—Fond of travel, and desirous of change, will

take unexpected journeys and travel to foreign parts.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 365

THE HOROSCOPES OF PRESIDENT CLEVELAND
AND OF

EX-PRESIDENT HARRISON.
Some time in the beginning of October, 1888, a reporter of "The

New York World " was sent to nearly all the Astrologers and Clairvoy-
ants in New York City to try and find out what they had to say about
the then-coming Presidential election. He was also sent to consult me,
but instead of asking my opinion on the Presidential election, he had me
cast his own horoscope. When I had finished reading it, he said he
would like to ask me one question, which was that he had bet consid-
erable money that Mr. Cleveland would be elected ; should he win his

money ? I showed him the horoscope of Mr. Cleveland, and told him
that Cleveland would be defeated in the coming election ; that near the
end of October, Cleveland would have a very evil aspect in his horoscope,
which would give him a black eye, and would prevent his election.

Just about the above-mentioned time, Lord Sackville West, British

Minister to Washington, wrote a letter to an Englishman out West,
advising all Englishmen to vote for Cleveland, as his election would
benefit Fngland. This was one of the means of Mr. Cleveland's not
being elected in 1888. On account of Lord Sackville West's indiscre-

tion he got his walking papers to go home.
The above was published in "The New York Sunday World"

on the 14th of October, 1888. The reporter also published in the
same paper that I charged him five dollars for reading his horoscope,
but I was the only one of the Astrologers in New York who gave him
anything for his money. That was rough on the other Astrologers, but
I suppose the reason he made that statement was because they did not
charge him enough for reading his horoscope.* I advised him to hedge
on his Cleveland election bets, if he did not wish to lose all his money.

On the 10th of July, 1892, appeared the following horoscopes of
President Cleveland and ex-President Harrison, in the "New York
Sunday Journal." I reprint them verbatim. At the end of the horo-
scopes I shall make a few further remarks.

* Charles A. Dana, in "The New York Sun," advises his readers never to pay an Astrologer
more than twenty-five cents for casting and reading a horoscope. Mr. Dana is a great stickler for
personal freedom of the buyer and seller, not only of labor but of every kind of product. He
always insists in labor strikes that if there are men or women willing to do the work at a lower
wage, that the strikers have no business to interfere; that every one should be left free to ask what
he deems proper for any specific work, and the buyer to offer what he deems proper. In this case
it is not the Astrologers who are on a strike for higher wages, but what is termed a " lockout.''
But if Mr. Dana is determined to fix the fee of Astrologers at twenty-five cents, why not fix it for
all other professional services? Why does he not tell his readers not to pay more than twenty-five
cents to a lawyer for pleading a case in court, nor more than twenty-five cents to a minister for
preaching a sermon on Sunday, nor more than twenty-five cents to a doctor for a professional visit
to a patient? Why pin all Astrologers down to twenty-five cents, unless he brfngs all other pro-
fessions down to the same level ?

Mr. Dana may say he does not believe in Astrology, yet there are people just as wise as he
who do believe in it, and consider that an Astrological reading is worth as much as the fee given
to a lawyer or a doctor.



3 66 ELEMENTS OF ASTROSOGY.

HOROSCOPE OF GROVER CLEVELAND.
From "The New York Sunday Morning Journal," July 10, 1892.

In times like these, when every one is excited over the possibilities of
the Presidential ^lection, even the most extraneous means may be used
to throw light upon the uncertainty. In olden times the Court Astrol-
oger was the oracle, and such an oracle must be sadly needed at Wash-
ington.

The Astrologer of to-day is not like his predecessor. He is an
ordinary looking man, with his books and mathematical tables about
him ; in a matter-of-fact, business-like way he talks of the future with
the ease of a teacher. The gentleman who was consulted for the infor-

mation here given would not be considered, out of his office, as differing

in any way from his neighbors. A man about sixty, gray, and with a

pleasant face and a general appearance of honesty, both in actions and
conversation. He has devoted forty years of his life to the study, and
seems to be a devout believer in all that he says.

He had the charts all prepared, and from their appearance must have
spent some time in studying them ; his remarks were to the point, and
seemed to be the result of deep thought. He was emphatic in his

statements regarding the chances of the two candidates, considered
frouv the Astrologer's point of view, and should he be correct, Mr.
Cleveland might take much comfort this summer if he realized the good
times ahead for him.

The Professor studied the following chart for a while and then said :

*'g<

tyiS

"Grover Cleveland was born March 18, 1837. His biographies do
not mention the time of day, but after a careful examination I am con-

vinced that the hour was about 11:30 k. m. He is described by the



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 367

Moon in Leo, that orb being at that time afflicted by an evil aspect of
the planet Saturn."

The Professor here took down one of his books and read as follows:
" The Moon in Leo describes a person about the middle height, well

proportioned, strong, large-boned, sanguine-complexioned, brown hair,

large, prominent eyes, and full face, a lofty, proud, aspiring person, very
ambitious, and desiring to rule."

The Professor sat back in his chair and looked as though that settled

the truth of the matter effectuallv, and then he went on:
" Mr. Cleveland has four planets in the sign of Pisces, and no doubt

they are near the mid-heaven ; any person with so many planets in one
sign, and in conjunction, is certain to rise and become noted, unless these

planets are very much afflicted. He has also the planets Jupiter and
Mars in conjunction in the second house—the house of money. This
would indicate that he would become quite well to do, though Mars
there would make money pass through his hands very easily when he was
young.

" The Moon in the second house in evil aspect to the planet Saturn
shows that in early life he had many misfortunes, and there was danger
even of disgrace.

" Mr. Cleveland is of good constitution, and likely to live to a good
age ; although he will have several evil influences commence about May,
1895, which will last until the middle of October, 1896. That will be
a critical period for him to live through. Should he pass that influence
safely there is no serious danger for many years.

" Marriage in Mr. Cleveland's nativity is surrounded by many possi-

bilities ; especially was it so in his early life, and difficulties and anxieties
from the opposite sex were not the least of his troubles. Mrs. Cleveland
is described in his nativity by the planet Mercury; the aspect indicating
marriage in Mr. Cleveland's horoscope is not of the best, except for

honor and advancement. Mercury neai the mid-heaven indicates the

popularity of that estimable lady.
" The influences in operation in Mr. Cleveland's nativity this fall are

remarkably good ; exactly the reverse of those that hampered him in

1888. I am satisfied that he will be elected."

HOROSCOPE OF BENJAMIN HARRISON.

"In Mr. Harrison's biographies the date of birth given is August 20,

1833. The hour is lacking, but after studying the positions of the

planets on that day, I am convinced that he was born about 4 a. m. This
would indicate that the Sun was the preponderating planet in his horo-
scope. The Sun in Leo gives the following:

Here the Professor again read :

" The Sun in Leo gives a strong, well-proportioned, and very portly

person ; sanguine complexioned, light brown or yellowish hair, full face,

and large, prominent eyes. There is generally a mark or scar on the

face. A very just, upright, and honorable man, who scorns to do any



"

3 68 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

CHART OF THE HEAVENS AT PRESIDENT HARRISON S BIRTH.

meanness punctual, faithful to his friends, and magnanimous to his ene-
;

mies ; in short, a right royal disposition ; a very ambitious man withal,

fond of rule and authority, and given to war, domination and conquest.
The Professor put the book down, and taking up the chart, studied

it attentively for some time, and then proceeded :

*' The reason of Mr. Harrison's rise to prominence is the position

of the planet Jupiter in the mid-heaven of his horoscope, in close

good aspect to Mercury ; the latter planet is rising in great dignity.

Strange as it may appear, there are very few persons born with Jupiter
in their mid-heaven. Among these few, Queen Victoria, the Duke of
Wellington, and W. W. Astor are numbered. A person having this

excellent configuration of the heavens, will in some part of his life rise

to prominence and remain prominent.
" A person born with Saturn in that part of the horoscope may rise

in life after hard work, but is sure to fall. For instance, the two Bona-
partes, Gen. McClellan, and ex-President Buchanan are remarkable illus-

trations. It may be interesting to know that Worsdale, a very eminent
Astrologer of England in the last century, cast the horoscopes of
Napoleon Bonaparte and the Duke of Wellington eleven years before

the battle of Waterloo, and predicted that if ever these generals met
upon the field of battle Wellington would conquer.

But to the matter in hand. In President Harrison's horoscope the
planets Saturn and Mars in the house of money would indicate that he
had many hard struggles with povertv in his early vears. Venus in the
house of friends would bring him influential friendships, many of them
of the gentler sex. Mercury rising in the ascendant, and in good aspect

to Jupiter and the Moon, would give him remarkable intellect, far above



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. ?6q

the average. When he thoroughly considers a subject he will rarely

make a mistake.
" The health and length of life of the President are influenced by the

Sun rising in his horoscope. He will live to a good age, and enjoy better

health than in his early years. A person indicated by the Sun, as he is,

especially when it is so strong, is generally set in his ways and determined
to control, making a poor politician.

" The Moon making an aspect of Jupiter in the mid-heaven, would
indicate that marriage would be a benefit to Mr. Harrison ; he would
receive advancement and assistance from the step. He will get along in

a rather harmonious manner in married life; the only unpleasantness I

see would be over the question of who should rule.
" At the nomination of President Harrison in ] 888 it so happened

that he had a number of very good influences in operation in his horo-
scope, and at the same time Cleveland had several very evil ones, par-
ticularly in October of that year, about the time when Sackville West
wrote the letter advising the Englishmen how to vote.

" At the time of the nomination of President Harrison this year, I find

that the Moon was rising, just leaving an opposition of the Sun, and in

close square to Saturn in the eleventh, the house of friends. All these

influences indicate that when election time comes the President will have
been sold out by his friends. I cannot see how he can possibly be
elected, unless a miracle occurs. If he should be elected it would bring
trouble to the country.

" In addition, the President will have, commencing about the 20th of
September of this year, and lasting till after election, several very evil

influences, and something will occur about that time which will seriously

interfere with his prospects.
"Of the two men, President Harrison has the more fortunate horo-

scope, yet on account of the evil influences I have mentioned, and the
fact that Grover Cleveland will have some exceptionally good influences

in his horoscope this fall, among which will be Jupiter in his mid-heaven
in exact trine to the Moon, I am satisfied that Grover Cleveland will be
elected to the Presidency.

" It is seldom I meet with two nativities that are so strong where
the parties are opposed to each other, therefore I expect it to be an ex-
citing election."

A FEW FURTHER REMARKS ON THE HOROSCOPE OF EX-PRESIDENT
HARRISON.

The evil planetary influences in ex-President Harrison's nativity in

September and October, 1892, had a marked effect, not only in defeating

him for a second term, but they also brought misfortune in the loss of

his wife. At the time I calculated Mr. Harrison's horoscope for the

"Sunday Morning Journal," I expected that there would be a death in

his family before the election, but was afraid to mention it, because the

aspect might have brought some other affliction. It is sometimes very
difficult to tell which way the planetary influence will affect a person.

Before the summer of 1896 Mr. Harrison will have a number of evil



%JO ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

planetary influences in his horoscope, which will seriously interfere with
his prospects for being nominated a third time, and may also seriously

affect his health.

In November and December, 1895, he will have almost as evil an
aspect as he had when he buried his wife, his own health will be seri-

ously affected, and possibly another death may occur in his family.

February and March, 1896, will bring other evil influences of a similar

nature, but in July, 1896, Jupiter will come to his ascendant, which is

a verv fortunate aspect, yet he will have an evil aspect of Uranus to its

own place at the same time, which I think will spoil his prospects for

renomination, and the National Convention may act as treacherously as

it did to James G. Blaine in 1892. Still, should he get the nomination
there will be a fair chance of his being elected, and should they nomi-
nate Grover Cleveland for a third term, Mr. Harrison would have a

walk-over.
Commencing January 1, 1897, and continuing to the 1st of Decem-

ber, Mr. Harrison will have one of the worst aspects he has had since

he was seven years of age, and the chances of his living over that time
are very doubtful ; still, as his " giver of life " is so strong, there may be
a slight prospect of his surviving over 1897. If so, there will be no
serious danger of his death until he is about seventy-two or seventy-three
years old. Should he possibly be elected President in 1896, it will be
just as evil for the United States as was the election of Mr. Cleveland
in 1892.

A FEW FURTHER REMARKS ON THE HOROSCOPE OF PRESIDENT
CLEVELAND.

For the next few years Mr. Cleveland will have some very evil influ-

ences, much worse than those he had in July, August, and September of
this year, and they will affect his health in a more marked degree.

Tt was certainly a serious mistake in the President calling Congress
together on the Aug. 7th, 1893, during the time that he had such evil

influences in his nativity ; the aspects were evil on the day they met, and
Congress will be about as submissive, and as much inclined to transact

business for the good of the country, as the Long Parliament of England,
which finally succeeded in beheading Charles I.

Commencing about the 5th of October, 1893, the influences slightly

improve in Mr. Cleveland's horoscope, and continue more favorable
until about the 28th of November, when he will have another evil

aspect, which will affect his health, and bring him a world of trouble
connected with Government affairs, which will continue to the 15th of

December; afterwards things look a little more encouraging, and his

health improves until February 1st. During February and March he
will be very much perplexed in Government affairs; things throughout
the country will look gloomy ; his health will be poor, and Congress and
he will be at loggerheads. After April 1st until the middle of Novem-
ber things will go much smoother, with a much brighter propect through-
out the country. His health ought to be quite good, but from Nov.
15, 1894, and continuing until Nov. 15, 1896, he will have some very



— 1

EIFMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 37

Serious aspects affecting his nativity, very much worse than anything he
has had for many years. The most marked evil times will be from
Nov. 1st, 1894, to March 20th, 1895. His health will be very poor,
and there is great danger that he will be afflicted with rheumatism and
dropsy, and heart difficulty setting in. May, 1895, will also be an evil

month ; then again from the middle of September to November 10th,

1895, and during January, February, March, and April, 1896, and
again during September and October, 1896, will all be unusually evil

periods.

I shall think Mr. Cleveland a very fortunate man if he lives through
these evil influences.

Except from April 1st to Aug. 1st, 1894, and in the spring of 1895,
there will be serious disturbances and discontent throughout the country
during Mr. Cleveland's administration.

The planetary influences in Mr. Cleveland's horoscope for the next
three years, will be similar to those which afflicted Gen. Grant's horo-
scope in 1873, when he signed the bill which demonetized silver, and*

which brought such serious disaster and stagnation in business throughout
the country in the fall of 1873, continuing for a number of years, and
which caused the origin of the "Greenback party."

During 1873, Saturn and Uranus remained in close opposition, and
afflicted both Saturn's and the Sun's places in the ascendant of the horo-
scope of Gen. Grant. As Mr. Cleveland's horoscope has -similar aspects,

I look for a similar condition of business in the United States while he
remains in office.

ESTHER CLEVELAND'S NATIVITY.
The managing editor of the " New York Sunday News, on the

evening of the above child's birth, sent to me to have its horoscope cast

for the issue of Sept. 10, 1893.
I erected the following map of the heavens, made the necessary calcu-

lations, and wrote the following short sketch of the baby's life. I insert

it in this pamphlet for the reasons

First. It being the first President's child born in the White House,
its birth is an important event in the history of the country, and it indi-

cates to a certain extent the future of this Government, the condition of
the people, and the future prosperity or adversity of the child's father.

Saturn in the mid-heaven, and also the Sun, afflicted by Mars,
indicate that both the father and the United States will have to go
through a siege of affliction within the next few years. The Sun and
Saturn always represent the father in a child's nativity, and the Sun
afflicted by Mars in the tenth,* also Saturn afflicting the 10th house,

indicate that the father, were he in any ordinary business, would fail

or become bankrupt within a few years after the child's birth. Also,

they indicate that the father's health will become seriously affected, especi-

* The writer in "The Penny Magazine" would say "that the ioth house was fortified by the

presence of Mars,'' but an enemy does not fortify, but afflicts and destroys. .Mars being an evil

planet, is an enemy.



37 2 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

ally when Mars comes to a conjunction of the Sun by direction, which
will be in about one year and nine months, at which time he will come
near dying, and will meet with serious afflictions otherwise. Also there
will be great discontent and excitement throughout the country, especially

as the President will have evil aspects affecting his own horoscope at

the same time.

If Miss Esther goes into business, she will often meet with heavy
losses, and become bankrupt.

Second. The enemies of Astrology have often made the remark,
similar to Mr. Thomas Dick, that " Even though it were admitted that

the heavenly bodies have an influence over the human race, yet we have
no data whatever by which to ascertain the mode of its operation, or to

determine the formula or rules by which calculations are to be made "

..." and their pretensions nothing short of criminal imposition upon the
credulity of mankind." And yet another Astrologer in a New York
Sunday paper published Miss Esther's horoscope the same Sunday the
one I wrote appeared in the " Sunday News," and we both agreed in

all essential particulars. How was that possible if there are no rules or
data in Astrologv to go by ? If the same time of birth were taken to

ten thousand Astrologers, they would all agree in the essential particu-
lars in the horoscope, as to the native's personal appearance, temper,
mental qualities, marriage, time of marriage, disposition, physical and
mental qualities of the husband, and whether a happy marriage or the
reverse; children, ailments, sickness, length of life, etc., as ten thousand
persons proficient in arithmetic would agree in their calculations in any
special sum.

Astrologers are not like doctors, lawyers, ministers, etc., who all dis-

agree with one anoiher, and are always as wide apart in their deductions
and conclusions as the north pole is from the south, or the east from the
west. It is a common by-word that no two doctors ever agree in their

diagnosis and treatment, unless they are Homoeopathic or Astrological
doctors.

The different religionists have done nothing but disagree and fight

with one another all the world over, since Adam's time, and there is

nothing so bitter and fierce as a religious war.
The whole stock in trade of a lawyer consists in disagreeing, and in

taking a different view on the subject from the lawyer on the opposite
. side, and he keeps up this disagreement as long as he can, or as long as

the money holds out.

The Astrologers compare very favorably with the followers of any
of the above professions in the consistency of their deductions. Astrol-

ogy is an exact science ; it is almost impossible for its professors to disa-

gree if the data are correct, and each of the Astrologers is proficient in

the science.

Is it not strange that professors of Astrology should be persecuted in all

ages ? In ancient times they were persecuted as idolaters, because they
were supposed to worship the Sun, Moon and Stars; and since the

Reformation they have been persecuted as witches and heretics. Yet
Astrologers are the only professors who agree with, and do not persecute,

each other ; and their science is as ancient as any of the sciences.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. $"
7,

From "The Sunday News" of September io, 1893.

THE BABY'S HOROSCOPE.
THE " SUNDAY NEWS " ASTROLOGIST PREDICTS A BRILLIANT LIFE.

A Washington dispatch says: "At 12 noon yesterday (Sept. 9th),

Mrs. Cleveland gave birth to a girl baby."

>ei%

This young lady was born under the planet Jupiter in Gemini, just

setting on the western horizon, with 3 deg. 8 min. of Sagittarius rising,

and 18 deg. of Virgo on the mid-heaven. In personal appearance she
will be similar to her mother. The books say : "Jupiter in Gemini
represents a well-made, compact body, above the middle stature, san-
guine or rather light complexion, with brown hair; full, expressive eyes,

high forehead, the hair receding from the temples, prominent nose, and
well-cut features. The deportment is graceful, courteous, gentle, mild,
obliging, and good-natured."

In early life she will have delicate health, but the Sun, " the giver of

life," being so strong in the .mid-heaven, there is but little doubt that

she will live to be old, although she will be given up for dead when a

little short of two years old, and again when nearly five. At these times
she will have a fever or inflammation of the intestines, or may meet
with an accident at one or, in fact, at both these times; but there is

more danger of real sickness, fever, or inflammation.
The intestines, chest, throat, and kidneys are the parts of her system

that are the most likely to become affected, and in any sickness there is

danger of these parts of the bodv becoming deranged. She will have
other critical times for health, and will come near dying when 27, 28,
and when nearly 30. After the latter age her health will not be seri-

ously affected until she arrives at the age of 57 or 58.
This young lady has a very fortunate horoscope, and is certain to



374 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOCV.

become very noted and prominent ; like her father, she has four planets

near a conjunction, in the mid-heaven. This is a remarkable phenome-
non, and is what caused Mr. Cleveland to be elected President twice.

She will arrive at great eminence and marry to great advantage.
This horoscope is remarkably fortunate for intellect, and she will

develop into a remarkably smart and intellectual lady, and will be well

known for her learning. She will acquire knowledge with great rapidity,

and will take to learning as easily as "a duck takes to water." She will

excel in languages and mathematics, and become proficient in music,
will have a good voice, make an eloquent speaker and a good singer.

She will be especially noted for her refinement, intelligence, and good
sound common sense.

Ruth's sister will have a vast number of lady friends and acquaint-
ances, and every one will like her. She will be as well known and as

much appreciated as her mother. She has a much more fortunate horo-
scope than Baby Ruth, and will become more popular and more noted
than that young lady. She will also marry to greater advantage, and
live happier with her husband.

She weds a gentleman indicated by the planets Mercury in Virgo and
Jupiter in Gemini. In a great measure he will be similar in appearance
to herself, only much larger and taller. At the same time, he will never
become stout. The books say : "He will be tall, well built, with dark
brown or almost black hair, dark complexion, oval face, high forehead,
prominent eyes, and large nose." He will be a fine, handsome-looking
man, and be much admired. He will have a pleasing countenance, and
an intelligent appearance; be witty, ingenious, and talented, a profound
scholar and linguist, and capable of undertaking anything that requires

great ability. They will live very happily and lovingly together, as the

Sun makes a good aspect of Jupiter in the house of marriage. She is

likely to marry only once, and not until she is 24 years of age, and may
not marry until 27 ; but I think she will marry when 24.

Her husband will become very wealthy, and is likely to be a lawyer
or hold some high and prominent position under the Government. She

"
stands a much better chance of becoming " the first lady of the land
than her sister does.

She will have a small family of children, not more than three or four,

and they are likely to be boys; but there is danger of one-half of them
dying in their infancy. She is likely to become a noted authoress, and
become very wealthy, and will be exceedingly fond of the curious and
wonderful, and will have a liking for spiritualism and magnetism. She
will also be very religious.

I should think that any young lady would be willing to spend years in study in order to be
able to set up a chart of the heavens, and learn for herself the description of the gentleman she
will marry, and whether it will be a happy marriage. It could be learned in a few hours' study
and at an expense of twenty-five cents for an ephemeris and a table of houses ; besides, it would
enable her to point out all the constellations and any planets that may be visible in the heavens;
persons not having any knowledge of Astronomy would have to take a few lessons in that science

before they could erect a chart of the heavens by means of a table of houses and an ephemeris.



ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 575

THE HOROSCOPE OF EMPEROR WILLIAM II. OF
GERMANY.

Jtl?

The Emperor was born January 27, 1859, at 2:54 p. m., at Pots-
dam, Germany. At his birth, 20 deg. of Cancer were rising, with the
Moon, his ruling planet, in the sign Scorpio, in the 5th house, in close

good aspect to Mars and Neptune in the mid-heaven.
His nativity does not indicate a long life, neither is it very fortunate

in money matters, as Saturn is in the 2d house (the house of money-) in

close opposition (very evil aspect) to the Sun, lord of the 2d, in the 8th
house, which indicates that he will be unfortunate in money matters,
and is liable to run into debt, and that his substance will be wasted.

The nativity of William II. is rather fortunate for marriage. His
wife is indicated by Mars, and being in good aspect to his planet, they
will live harmoniously and happily. It is also fortunate for children :

one of his sons is almost certain to succeed him as King of Prussia, but
the kingdom will be heavily taxed, and be burdened with a large na-
tional debt when he comes to the throne.

William I. and the present Emperor both had Mars, the god of war,
in the mid-heaven, therefore William II. will not be able to keep out of
war any more than his grandfather. But as William I. had a more for-

tunate horoscope, and his 2d house was not afflicted, he won every war
he was engaged in, and received great indemnities ; also Mars was in

good aspect to Venus, in its exaltation, and the Moon was leaving a

good aspect of both, and applying to a good aspect of Jupiter in its own
house ; all of which indicated that he would increase in substance and
power, and arrive at eminence and great honor ; but the present Em-
peror will be unsuccessful in war, and will have to pay indemnities, as



37^ ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY.

he has Saturn afflicting his 2d house in opposition to the lord thereof.

These are evil influences especially in money matters.
The aspects in this horoscope, which indicated the present Emperor

would arrive at his high position, are that Jupiter (lord of the mid-heaven),
is in the 1 lth house, applying to a good aspect of Saturn and the Sun, and
Mars in the mid-heaven in close good aspect to his own planet. These
aspects are fortunate in elevating the native to honor; but when evil

transits or directions afflict the Sun or Saturn, or both (which govern
his substance), the native is liable to heavy losses and disaster.

The Emperor had one of these evil aspects about the 10th or 11th
of November, 1892, which caused him a great deal of trouble and anx-
iety, especially in connection with the Reichstag and government affairs;

he felt this evil aspect in a marked degree during April, May, and part of

June and September, and will still feel it until the fore part of December,
1893. These evil aspects must have affected his health. But after that

date he has favorable influences, and things will be more prosperous both
for himself and his dominions; especially commencing in May, 1894,
he will have a very fortunate aspect, and will become very popular.
Should he commence war at that time with France or any other nation,
he will be successful, at least for a time. In July and August, 1894, he will

have some difficulty with the Reichstag on account of incurring extra ex-
penses or increasing the taxes ; but the latter part of the year 1894 will be
a fortunate period. During February and March, 1895, there is danger
of his having trouble with the Reichstag on account of the increased
expenses of the Government ; there is also likely to be a dispute or
quarrel with some foreign power, but it may possibly be smoothed over
for the time being. He will either be sick during these two months or
there will be deaths, sickness, or misfortunes in his family.

During October and November, 1 895, he will have evil aspects, which
he will continue to feel all through the winter, especially in February
and March, 1896. Still he may avoid war.

November and December, 1896, will not pass without his getting
involved in war, or some serious disputes, and the whole of 1897 will be
a remarkably evil year, during which he is certain to be at war with some
foreign nation, likely to be either France or Russia, or both. The Ger-
man armies will meet with defeat and heavy losses, and will undergo as

serious a disaster as France suffered in 1870. There is much danger
that the Emperor will not live over 1897; if he does, he is likely to

meet with disgrace similar to that of Napoleon at the battle of Sedan.
The Emperor is almost certain to die a natural death, and not be

killed in battle. He will suffer with some affection of the head, also of
the kidneys and bladder, attended with rheumatism and swelling of the

lower limbs ; the heart will also become affected.

This horoscope is quite the reverse of that of Jay Gould's, who had
Jupiter and Venus in the 2d house, the house of money. He began with
nothing, and died worth seventy-two millions ; whereas the Emperor of
Germany, having his 2d house so much afflicted by Saturn, will either die

poor or the nation will be heavily in debt at his death.



;

ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOGY. 377

THE HOROSCOPE OF THE THIRD FRENCH REPUBLIC.
The Third French Republic was declared Sept. 4, 1870, at 4 p. m.,

Paris, France.
Thirteen degrees of Capricorn were rising, and 16 deg. of Scorpio

were on the mid-heaven; the Moon was just coming to the ascendant
and applying to a square of Mercury in Libra, a movable sign; the
Moon was also making an opposition of Mars and Uranus, both in the
7th house. The Moon being 17 degrees from an opposition of Uranus,
and reckoning a degree for a year, would indicate that the Government
of France was in a critical condition in 1888 and '89, when the Bou-
langer excitement occurred, which came near upsetting the Government.
There was another critical time about ten years after the Republic was
declared, when the Moon made an opposition of Mars. At that time
there came near being a war with Germany.

Tn the fall and winter of i8o2-'93 Saturn was in evil aspect to
the Moon's and Mercury's places, both in October and November, '92,
and January and February, '93, when the great excitement about the
Panama Scandal occurred. In January there was trouble with the
laborers and also with the medical students, and riots occurred in Paris.

Saturn was in evil aspect again in July and August, when riots again

occurred in Paris, connected with medical students and hospital doctors

and the Siamese excitement, when England threatened France with war.
But, commencing in the middle of December, 1893, and continuing

to May 1, 1894, Saturn will be stationary in evil aspect to Uranus's
place, Neptune in evil aspect to the Sun's place, and Uranus will be in

evil aspect to Venus's place ; therefore I look for more excitement and
disturbances in Paris, and also in a number of other cities in France,
than there have been for a number of years past. I shall deem the Third
Republic remarkably fortunate if it can weather that storm.

In the latter part of 1895, and during the whole of 1896, the horo-
scope of France will be afflicted by Saturn and Uranus transiting its

mid-heaven, and either it will be a very stormy period for the Chamber
of Deputies, or else the Government will be involved in war. These
evil aspects will continue until November, 1897. However, should the

Republic survive that stormy period, there is nothing very threatening
until February, 1899, at which time there will be severe afflictions for

the Republic, which will continue until 1901.
On account of there being so many planets in angles, afflicted in

movable signs, it is impossible for the French Republic to last a great
number of years, and 1901 is about the limit of its existence. But it

may even go under in the fore part of 1894, or the summer of 1895.

When President Carnot of France was assassinated in 1896, the nation
was under considerable strain, but finally things adjusted themselves.
The government has been put to a decided strain during the latter part
of 1897 and the fore part of 1898, in the trial and conviction of Zola,
the noted author, and there is really great danger that in 1901 the
republic will not be able to weather the storm that will then rise.



APPENDIX.

INTRODUCTORY REMARKS TO A PAMPHLET

ENTITLED

WHY I AM AN ASTROLOGER,
AND A REPLY TO

RICHARD A. PROCTOR'S

ARTICLE ON THE

"HUMBUG OF ASTROLOGY,"

PUBLISHED IN THE "NEW YORK WORLD," FEB. 6TH, 1887, WITH CRITICISMS

ON THE "NEW YORK WORLD," MR. PROCTOR, AND JUDGE JOHN JAY

GORDON, OF THE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS, PHILADELPHIA, PA.

SY

L. D. BROUGHTON, M. D.

New York:

PUBLISHED BY THE AUTHOR,
68 South Washington Square.



—

PREFACE.
*T*HE revival of the ancient science of Astrology is now assured beyond a doubt.

Twenty years ago when T first commenced publishing Broughton's Monthly
Planet Reader and Astrological Journal—at that time the only publication of the kind
in the world—the woid "Astrology" had to be spoken in polite society with 'bated

breath ; the astrologers were relegated to the category of fools and knaves, and the

ministers of the gospel consigned them to the torments and tortures of the infernal

regions. The newspapers, lecturers and periodicals of that day mentioned the word
"Astrology" only when they wanted to create a laugh, or to hold up its votaries to

public ridicule ; and 1 know from dearly-bought experience that astrologers had no
more rights, either in the community or in a court of justice, than a "nigger" had
"away down South" in the days of slavery. But thanks to the lectures and writings of

Professors Tyndall, Huxley and Darwin, the scales are dropping from people's eyes,

and they are beginning to find out that the world is governed by fixed laws, and that

"miracles" are at a discount. Ministers no longer preach sermons against Astrology,

and on account of public attention being drawn to the near approach of the perihelion

of the planets, almost every newspaper, both in this country and Europe, has contained

articles advocating the belief in the influence of the planets.

The London Evening Standard of July 6th, 1880, in commenting on Mr. B. G.

Jenkins' paper on Meteorology and Planetary Influence, read by him before the Dulwich
College Geological Club, said :

" From the lofty heights of modern science we have been accustomed to look down with pity
and contempt upon the astrologers of the Middle Ages,—the weak dabblers in science who were
foolish enough to believe that the stars had an influence upon man. An allusion to astrologers was
always good to raise a laugh at a science meeting, and the astrologers and alchemists were classed
together as either dreamers or charlatans. Of late years, however, a certain reaction has set in.
The astrologer is becoming rehabilitated very rapidly. The influence of the planets upon the
earth is now admitted to be very distinct, and fresh proofs of their disturbing influences are con-
stantly cropping up."

A few scientific men having made observations on the coincidence of Sun-spots with

extraordinary features of weather, and also discovering that the Sun-spots were caused

by the influence of the planets, and in this way having gradually led the thinking por-

tion of the public to recognize that the master-minds of former generations were not

entirely mistaken in tracing the mutations of weather and of mundane events to

planetary influence ; the day is now fast dawning when Astrology shall again take rank

with the physical sciences, and the predictions of the astrologer will go hand in hand
with the calculations of the astronomer.

Although the approaching perihelion of the planets has not as yet produced any
particular famine except in Ireland and certain parts of Russia and Turkey ; nor any
noted pestilence except the yellow fever in 1878 and 1879 in New Orleans, Granada,
Vicksburg and Memphis ; the black pest and diphtheria in Russia and part of Turkey,
and the cholera in India yet everyone knows that long droughts are becoming more

;

common
; the heats of summer are felt to be more oppressive and destructive to

human life,—more people dying from heat in cities with the mercury at 85 than in

former years at 95 ; malarialfever was never before so common among all classes,

and steamboat and railroad accidents are almost of every day occurrence. These are

some of the effects of our earth not getting its usual share of life and magnetism
from the sun, on account of so many of the other superior planets being in their peri-

helion and drawing more than their usual share of life and magnetism from that body.



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.

Near the first of June, 1886, Mr. Romaine (a complete stranger to

me), was sentenced to eighteen months imprisonment in the Penitentiary

at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, solely, so far as I can find out, for prac-

ticing astrology. Judge Gordon, when passing sentence on the prisoner,

made use of the following words:—" I can conceive of no crime, except
possibly low forms of gambling, that is more injurious than the business

you carried on."
The general reader will naturally infer, after perusing the above state-

ment, that practicing astrology is a very low business, and that there are

but few lines of occupation that can be compared to it, in its degrading
effect. That there may be a difference of opinion in regard to the

science and practice of astrology is reasonable to expect, but from what
cause that difference arises may not be so clear; and it is to make it as

clear as possible, and to remove certain erroneous impressions, that I write
these Introductory Remarks. The facts and the proofs of the truth of
astrology will be given in the Elements of Astrology.

In all nations, both barbarous and civilized, that we have any knowledge
of, and in all ages, wherever and whenever there has been a difference

of opinion among men, either in learning, science, or religion, those on
one side who are in the majority have always claimed the right of
imprisoning and putting to death those on the other side who are in the
minority, and they have generally carried that assumed right into execution.
The justice or injustice of such proceedings I shall not stop to argue.

I only give it as a fact which all history goes to confirm, even up to the
present day ; and such is likely to be the case as long as the human race

exists. I shall bring some very startling evidence in the volume itself,

assertion, both in these Introductory Remarks, and in the pamphlet itself.

Not only have the minority, or those who are in subjection for the time
being, been inprisoned and put to death, but as far as possible they have
always been prevented from being heard, either by public speaking, and
meetings, or in the public prints;* yet, strange to say, these very persecu-
tions by the majority, instead of accomplishing the object intended, have
always had the opposite effect. Hence have arisen such sayings, as " the
blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church."

I have divided these Introductory Remarks into sections, in the following
order, and for the purpose herewith indicated :

First :—Why I undertook to write this pamphlet.
Second:—The object I hope to accomplish by the present publication.

Third:—An introduction of myself to the reader; a statement of my
standing in the society where I have been known for thirty years ; also a

* See pages 400 and 404.



APPENDIX. 381

short description of my parentage, and of what my family has suffered in

the cause of good government, and for the cause of astrology ; and finally

a declaration of the reasons why I became an astrologer.

First :—Why I undertook to write this pamphlet.

To the general reader, the conviction and imprisonment of one person
may appear a very slight matter, and not worth troubling one's self about.
But it ought to be borne in mind that if one person can be sent to prison
unjustly, another may also be sent thither; and finally it may come to the
reader's turn himself, to be sent to prison unjustly.

While living under a good goverment, it is very pleasant to think that

each individual is protected in his rights, no matter how low or humble
he may be.

Let us suppose that one of these individuals finds his property right

invaded. What is the course he pursues to gain redress ? He applies

to the legal tribunals to adjudicate the case, and upon a hearing, it is pos-
sibly decided favorably. The sheriff takes the order of the court and
proceeds to collect the amount, and if the execution is satisfied, it is well:

but if force is resorted to, to prevent the execution, the sheriff calls on a

number of citizens who will aid him in securing the injured party's rights.

If this should not be sufficient, perhaps, he calls upon the Governor of
the State to call out the State troops : and the Governor may even have
to call on the President of the United States for troops. And all this

may occur to protect one poor individual in his right of property, or his

life. This is all very nice in theory, and it is nothing but just that the
theory should always be carried out in practice.

In a commonwealth like the State of New York, there may possibly be
a dozen murders committed in one year. The county or State goes to

a great expense and trouble in arresting the murderers, and in convicting
and executing them. All this is done so that each person may know
beforehand, if he premeditates committing murder, or indeed any crime,
that no expense and trouble will be spared by the county or State in

bringing the criminal to justice; and also that each person may know
and feel that his life, liberty and property are held sacred. Where
legislatures enact good and wise laws, and where there are just and wise
judges and legal courts to carry these laws into effect, the commonwealth
that possesses them is said to have a good government, and its people are
generally happy and prosperous.
On the other hand, let us draw a picture giving the condition of the

people where all these things are reversed ; that is, where the people are
living under a bad government, where bad laws are enacted, and where
those laws are executed by unjust judges, and corrupt or biased juries.

I have already supposed that there may be about one dozen murders
committed in the State of New York in a year, and that there may be
ten or twelve criminals hanged or imprisoned for these crimes in the
same length of time. But under a bad government, enacting and execut-
ting bad laws, if we can believe history, in a community no larger than
the State of New York, there have been thousands and even tens of
thousands of innocent persons executed in a single year, and in such an



382 APPENDIX.

excruciating manner that even to think of their sufferings at the present
day, makes our blood run cold. This state of things was continued year
after year.

I need only refer the reader to the history of the trials and executions
of heretics, witches and wizards, in almost all nations and in all ages.

And, as Robert G. Ingersoll has said, there is no doubt but that the
authorities would have gone on hanging and burning heretics and witches,

even up to the present day, were it not that the number of heretics and
witches who seriously objected to being either hanged or roasted alive,

gradually became too numerous.
To send even one person to jail unjustly is treading on very dangerous

ground. If we may be guided by past history, the sentencing and exe-
cuting of one heretic, witch or wizard, or, as in the case of Mr. Romaine,
the imprisonment of one man for the studying and practicing of a very
ancient and useful art and science, may become a most injurious precedent,
like that of the first person who was guillotined on account of politics

in France, a circumstance which eventually led to the guillotining of
Robespierre himself.

Even the conviction of Mr. Romaine of a misdemeanor, and the
sentencing of him for felony, is of itself, as they would say in the British

House of Commons, a very dangerous precedent. Such proceedings may
be compared to a little boy with a lighted match in close proximity to a

powder magazine, which may explode it at any moment.
Blackstone in his "Commentaries," in page 60, Book Fourth, says:

'* To deny the possibility, nay, actual existence of witchcraft and sorcery,

is at once flatly to contradict the revealed word of God, in various pas-

sages of the Old and New Testament ; and the thing itself is a truth to

which every nation in the world hath in its turn borne testimony, either

by examples seemingly well attested or by prohibitory laws." If it was
possible for the legislatures in all ages and all nations (including even the

Christian nations), to have been deceived in their belief in witchcraft,

is it not possible that all the Christian nations of the present day may
equally be deceived in their disbelief in astrology ; especially when all

these disbelievers are ignorant of even the first A B C of that science.

Mr. Romaine has been tried, convicted and sentenced, and for anything
that I know to the contrary, he is now serving out his sentence in the

Penitentiary at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. But I wish to have Mr.
Romaine retried in another court, and before another jury ; the court to be
"Public Opinion," and the jury to be composed of the world at large.

I believe that in reopening a case for a new trial, the lawyers on both
sides are sometimes allowed to write out their speeches, and even have
them printed, and hand them to the judges to read and study over at

their leisure, instead of making any personal argument, or set speech in

their presence. I have followed this method in making my appeal to the

higher court, in which I hope to have Mr. Romaine's case retried. And
if I cannot get a clear verdict in his favor, I trust at least the jury will

disagree.

In my pamphlet, I shall only plead Mr. Romaine's side of the case.

The other side can be found in all the " Encyclopedias," and " Biographical



APPENDIX. 383

Dictionaries," of all the European Languages. It can be obtained in

"Appleton's American Cyclopedia," and I might say in nearly every
book that treats on the natural sciences, except in those which are specially

devoted to astrology. These last named, of course, give Mr. Romaine's
side of the question, and to them I refer those readers who may desire a

more extensive argument than I can possibly give in this pamphlet, on
behalf of astrology. I have in my own possession over fifty different

text books on the science of astrology.

Why all the publishers of encyclopedias and dictionaries continue to

publish what they know, or ought to know, are falsehoods, in the articles

on astrology in their various publications, I shall endeavor to explain, in

the latter part of this pamphlet. I shall also give a history of the "Act
for the Suppression of Fortune-telling," under which Mr. Romaine was
convicted, and a copy of the law itself, which is not very creditable to

those persons who were engaged in engineering it through the Pennsylvania
Legislature. Also will be found an account of my humble efforts to de-
feat the enactment of the said bill while it was pending in the Legislature.

Second :—The object I hope to accomplish by the present publication.

If I succeed in getting the jury to disagree, I shall have accomplished a

great result. Such a disagreement, like all disagreements of juries, will

naturally create discussion, and the discussion will certainly redound to

the benefit of astrology. In the forepart of the pamphlet, I compare the
calculations in astrology to those in arithmetic, and demonstrate that they
are almost equally infallible; but in the latter part of the pamphlet, where
I refer to Mr. Babbage's calculating machine, I show that astrology is

even more infallible than arithmetic. Consequently, if they send people
to prison for practicing astrology, they ought doubly to send them there

for practicing arithmetic.

No doubt it will strike the reader as a little remarkable, that astrology

should be the only science or art in existence concerning which expert
testimony is entirely discarded, and in regard to which only the opinions
of men who are the most ignorant of the subject, are entertained. If I

can get the public's attention directed even to this point, I shall then not
have published this pamphlet in vain. The opponents of astrology meet
this point by presupposing that all who give any attention to that science,

are either fools or knaves, and therefore their testimony cannot be taken
into account.

It may be very puzzling for the reader to understand, how it happens
that a person who learns reading, writing, and arithmetic, and who possibly

adds a knowledge of chemistry, geography and astronomy, if he stops there,

he remains a very sensible and honest man. But if to these acquirements he
should add the study of astrology, he then becomes insane, or dishonest.

But if we can believe all the Newspapers, Dictionaries, and Encyclopedias
published at the present day, such is the fact, whether it can be explained
or not. That is one reason why it is almost an impossibility to get

anything published in any newspaper in favor of astrology, while anything
that is derogatory .to that science, can get prominent notice, and almost
any amount of space.



— :

3^4 APPENDIX.

Only last March, a correspondent, signing himself
J. J. Y., asked the

editor of the "New York World," for some information about astrology,

and received for his answer the following paragraph :

" In this day and generation a man who believes that the planets govern
our actions should not let any one know it. Such an admission is prima
facie evidence of insanity or idiocy."

For a wonder, however, the World inserted, the following communi-
cation from the writer of these pages

To the Editor of the World :

Dear Sir :—Will you please explain why those people who make a

lifelong study of astrology, are the greatest believers in it, while those
like yourself, who do not know even the A B C of astrology, laugh at

and ridicule it? Should it ever be the fortune of "J. J. Y." to study
astrology, and prove for himself whether the planets have any influence

on the earth and its inhabitants or not, he will exclaim, "What ignorant
men the Editors of the World are!" I have made astrology a special

study for over forty years ; my father made it a study for about forty

years ; and my grandfather for over forty years, making altogether over
one hundred years of careful observation and study, and during that

time I have had six children born, and mv father had eight and my
grandfather had seven or eight born. The exact moment of birth of all

these children was noted and all their nativities calculated, all of which
have proved the truth of astrology. I have also examined near or about
one hundred thousand of other people's nativities, and whenever the time
of birth has been correct they have all gone on the side of proving the
truth of astrology. I have had also a number of professors of colleges

as students, I have had also some of the most learned and wealthy people
in the United States and in England as students and patrons.

They are the people who ought to have been able to find out the falsity

of astrology. But the fact of the matter is, it is only the ignorant, the

insane, and the idiots who do not believe in astrology.

Yours, Respectfully,

L. D. Broughton, M. D.,

March 16th, 1886. 66 West Fourth Street, New York.

In discussing these letters, my son, who assists me in my business,

objected to further interest on my part, saying that " I had already suffered

enough for astrology, and I ought now to let some one else suffer."

Should the time ever arrive when astrology, like all other arts and
sciences, is popularly estimated in accordance with what its friends, and
those who are the most experienced, and who possess the fullest knowledge
on the subject, have to say about it; instead of being estimated in

accordance with the statements of its enemies, and of those who have no
knowledge or experience whatever, then the reaction will be remarkable,
and the public will begin to find out how much they have been gulled for



—

APPENDIX. 385

the last two hundred years, by those pretended scientific men, who give

opinions on subjects they know nothing about. New editions of Dic-
tionaries and Encyclopedias and other scientific works will be called for,

as the publishers will discover that the present editions have become
entirely obsolete.

If the reader accepts the theory that in forming a judgment respecting

astrology, we are to be guided by those persons who possess the most
knowledge and experience on the subject, in all parts of the world wnere
the science is cultivated, and also that those who possess such knowledge
are to be regarded as the true experts of the science ; he will likewise

perceive, before he concludes these Introductory Remarks, that the standing

of the present writer, as an authority on the subject under consideration,

is almost unrivalled. In the article which was published in the " New
York World," I stated that I had studied astrology for over forty years.

During that time I think I have put astrology to the most severe tests,

almost every day, which it is possible ever to apply it to. I have also

read all the books in the English language, that I could lay my hands on,
which have been written for or against the science. After applying the

tests for so long a period, extending over successive generations, if I am
still deceived, and if my forefathers were also deceived, then I think it is

possible to deceive even the very elect. But even supposing that I have
been continually deceived, how am I to be convinced of it by persons
like Judge Gordon of Philadelphia, who does not even know the first

principles of astrology, who never subjected it to a single test, or made
a single calculation, and does not know even one solitary fact relating

either to the truth or falsity of the science ? If sending people to prison,

and making "Buncombe speeches/' like those of Judge Gordon, is going
to convince me, and all other astrologers, that we have been so long
deceived, then why did not the hanging and roasting alive of so many
millions of heretics and witches in all parts of the civilized world, con-
vince all the remaining heretics and witches, that they were wrong and
had been deceived? Judge Gordon's vituperation of Mr. Romaine, and
the condemnation of that victim to prison, reminds me of the scolding

and whipping of " Topsy," by Aunt Ophelia in " Uncle Tom's Cabin."
After Topsy had gone through all the hardships inflicted, she says:
" Golly ! Aunt Ophelia's whippin' wouldn't kill a skitty."

I think I have made this subject sufficiently plain, and exposed the
ignorance of all those who condemn astrology, and persecute astrologers,

when they themselves have no practical knowledge on the subject, and
have endeavored to prove that it is only the same kind of persecution
which harassed Copernicus, Galileo, Samuel Hahnemann, and I might
even include all the inventors and discoverers in art or science in former
ages. But possibly I might illustrate this point, and make it plainer by
one or two anecdotes, which have reference to other sciences or subjects,

not at all connected with astrology. In my early years when I was
studying Chemistry, if I attempted to argue a point, my teacher would
stop me short, by saying: u You know nothing without experiments,"
and that has been a lesson which I have never forgotten. If a person can
know nothing in other sciences, like chemistry, without experiments, then



386 APPENDIX.

how is it possible for him to know anything in practical astrology, which
is a thousand times more intricate than chemistry, without putting it to a

single test, or making a single observation.
Another illustration may not be out of place, as it may possibly explain

how people, through ignorance, may condemn astrology, on account of its

supposed wickedness, similar to the following lecturer on Natural History,
who supposed he had a clear case of Natural Theology, or the goodness
of God, but which was not proven by experiments and observations.

Some thirty years ago, when I was studying geology in Philadelphia,
Prof. Ennis, my teacher gave an account of a man lecturing on Natural
History before an audience, among whom there was a person who had
traveled in the Arctic Regions. Both the lecturer and the particular
listener were known to Prof. Ennis. The former was giving a description
of a particular species of deer, which had large spreading horns, or
antlers. He was telling how useful those horns were for brushing or
scraping the snow from the grass, so that the deer could eat the uncovered
herbage at its leisure, and he illustrated his remarks by the motion of his

own head, from one side to the other over the desk in front of him.
He went on expatiating on the goodness of God in providing the animal
with just such horns, in those high latitudes, where the snow covers the
ground more than one half of the year, and remarked that if this pro-
vision had 'Ot been made by an all-wise providence, the deer would all

certainly perish of hunger. When this observation was made, the man
who h d visited the Arctic Regions, burst out laughing. After the
lecturer had concluded his discourse, he went to the traveller and asked
him why he laughed. The answer was, "that the thing was so good he
could not eep from laughing," and added, "do you not know that every
year, before the snow begins to fall, that particular species of deer always
sheds its horns?"
The above anecdote illustrates what mistakes a man is liable to make

when he attempts to speal on a subject or science concerning which
he is n t well informed. N thing will, or can, stand in the place of facts,

experiments, and observations. Either the lecturer on Natural History
in the above anecdote, or the Creator, made a mistake in regard to the
use of the horns. But had the lecturer seen the deer, and watched
them in the different seasons of the year, he might have observed that

they had other methods of brushing the snow off the grass, than by using
their horns, to which he w s giving such unmerited praise. Had the
horns *rown on the lecturer's own head, he might have used them for

some such purpose, and, like Nebuchadnezzar of old, he could then have
eaten the grass at his leisure, even in the middle of winter.
The objections and arguments which the enemies of astrology, and

those w are ignorant of that science, bring against it, on account of its

wickedness, &c, when they are brought to the test of experiment and
observation, are like the horns of the deer, and the falling of the snow.
When the snow of purity, truth, and science begins to fall, those horns
of arguments and objections, which had stood aloft in ignorance ; when
they are needed, have already fallen from the deer's head, and lay rotting

on the ground.



APPENDIX. 387

In the latter part of this volume, I believe I have examined and
answered every argument and objection that has been, or can be brought
against Astrology, even in the case of twins, or triplets, and also of many
thousands of people who are born in one day. Of course the skeptics

say that all those persons ought to have the same Nativity, and should
experience similar events through life, &c, &c. All such arguments are

about as near perfect nonsense as we can find in this world, and the only
puzzling part of it is, how any man or woman, outside of an insane

asylum, could get such ridiculous ideas into their heads. And yet I

cannot remember ever lecturing on astrology without some man or woman
getting up in the audience and making just such objections. Only this

fall, while giving part of the following pamphlet in a lecture, an old man
got up in the middle of the lecture to ask me if he could put a few
questions when I got through. But he could not wait until I had finished,

and went on to ask the same old stereotyped questions just as if he thought
it was a grand new discovery that he had made. The fact being that

those very same questions had been asked and answered thousands of years
ago, as may be seen by reference to " Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos," and other
ancient works on astrology.

Whenever an astrologer is arrested for practicing his profession, all the

newspapers, in giving an account of it, have such headings as " An
Astrologer who did not know his own Nativity," or** An Astrologer who
did not know his own Fate," &c. In answer to those newspaper head-
ings, in the latter part of the volume, I think I have turned the tables

on the -editors themselves.

Third:—An introduction of myself to the reader, a statement. of my
standing in the society where I have been known for thirty years, also a

short description of my parentage and what my family has suffered in the

cause of good government, and for the cause of astrology ; and finally a

declaration of the reasons why I became an astrologer.

Solomon says, " Let another praise thee, yea a stranger, and not thint
own self." Were I to consult my own feelings, I should pass by this

branch of my topic in silence. But when it comes to matters of perse-
cutions and imprisonment, I think we ought not to stand knocking at the
door of modesty, or be guided by the strict rules of etiquette.

In the summer of 1885 I wrote to a friend, who is one of the editors

of a leading daily news paper of New York City, stating that I had
recently buried my oldest son, and that it had so affected his mother's and
my own health, that we had concluded to take a trip to Europe for a
change of scene, and in the hope that we might be improved by the ocean
voyage, I desired him to give me letters of introduction to persons in

London, Paris and Dublin, as we proposed visiting each of those cities.

I received the following reply :

New York, July 28th, 1885.

My Dear Doctor :— I enclose a letter to my brother, who has a very
good position and large acquaintance in London, and to whom I have
often spoken of you. 1 know no one in Paris, or in Ireland. I am leaving



388 APPENDIX.

town this afternoon, or I should call and bid your wife and yourself bon
voyage in person, and I hope you may have a pleasant journey and a
safe return, and complete restoration to health.

I am pained to hear of the death of your son,—which must have been
announced when I was out of town. It is a pity such a bright voung
man, so intelligent, and so amiable as I remember him, should be taken
away. Pray accept my very sincere condolence.

Yours, faithfully,

Dr. L. D. Broughton. George 9
I. O 9

J

The following is the letter of introduction.

New York, July 28th, 1885.
Dear David :—This will introduce to you Dr. Broughton, the Seer

and Astrologer of whom I have often spoken to you, and who has, for as

many as fifteen years been my "guide, philosopher and friend." I shall be
very glad if you will do anything you can to oblige him, while in London,
and am very sure you will -enjoy meeting a gentleman who represents
three successive generations of occult intelligence, besides being in his
proper person a physician of ability and experience.

Yours, Sincerely,

Geo. I. O »

I had other letters of introduction to parties in England of a similar
nature. I have not given the real L.me of the above writer for obvious
reasons.

Over twenty years ago, a gentleman from the Pacific Slope, was re-

quested to buy a "Raphael's Ephemeris."* He called in vain at most of
the booksellers in St. Louis, Chicago, New York, and other cities, and at

a shop in Boston, there he got the same answer, "No ! " A gentleman who
happened to be present, looked up and said, " If you should pass through
New York, you can get the work from Dr. Broughton." The gentleman
from the West wrote down the address, and while he was doing so, the
stranger added, "You call and see the Doctor ; you will find him a perfect

gentleman, and the best astrologer in America." I never knew who that
stranger was. The man from the West started for New York the same
afternoon, and on his arrival here, he put his wife in a carriage and sent

her to his hotel, while he came direct to my office. He has since brought
some of the most prominent people of the United States to consult me,
and whenever I, or members of my family, travel in the neighborhood of

his relatives or their friends, we are always welcome guests.

Some two years ago, a stranger called to consult me, and while I was
making a chart of the heavens for his time of birth, he —

said : " Do you
know that you are a constant theme of conversation in the capital of

Note :—* An Ephemeris is a small book or pamphlet, containing the longitude, latitude, and
declination of the moon, and seven of the larger planets, for each day in the year, and also the right
ascension, longitude, and declination of the sun, for every day.



APPENDIX. 389

Italy." That gentleman I afterwards learned was a sculptor of almost
world-wide reputation; he has been the means of sending some of the

most wealthy and prominent people of America and Europe to consult

me.
A number of years ago I was attending a sick lady in the upper part

of the city, and after I came out of her room, her husband requested me
to sit down in the parlor. Having asked me about his wife, he said :

" Where do you think I first saw your name, and heard people talking

about you?" He said, "In Hong Kong, China." He told me that some
missionaries had taken several of my publications out there, and that he
heard them talking about me, and reading them. People have been
recommended to me from all pares of the world, and many have come
long distances to see me. Sam. Ward, who died in Europe a few years

ago, spoke of me almost everywhere he traveled. When he died I lost a

good friend, but a close intimacy has been kept up by some of his relatives.

Among the many friends of the late Gen. John H. Devereux, there

was none who felt more grieved to learn of his death than the writer of
these pages. During hib visits to New York, he often spent a pleasant

hour with me in my office. In the fall of 1884 while journeying in the

West, I stopped at Cleveland to visit a number of friends, among whom
were Mr. Devereaux, who was then President of the C. C. C. & I. Railroad,

and Mr. Chas. Lattimere Chief Engineer of the N. Y. P. & O. Railroad,

and President of the International Institute for Preserving and Perfecting
Weights and Measures. In company with the latter gentleman I called

on Mr. Devereaux at his office, during my visit he reiterated a previously
made request for me to write his nativity in full as soon as I could spare
time. After a pleasant hour spent in conversation, as I was leaving, Mr.
Devereaux remarked. "Mr. Lattimere tells me this is your first visit to

Cleveland, we do not often do this sort of thing, but we want to make
you feel good so you will come again, and that you will remember your
visit to our city;" and handing me passes to New York for myself and
wife, we parted. The passes were not so much in themselves, but the
kindly and cordial manner in which they were so unexpectedly given, left

a lasting impression on my mind.
I miijht here state that Mr. Devereux's nativitv was one of the most

difficult I ever handled. The positions of the planets were extremely
complicated, and he did not know the exact time of birth. Partly on that

account, and partly on account of sickness in my family, I had not finished

writing it at the time of Mr. Devereux's fatal illness. I should have
called to see him at his hotel in New York, on his return from Europe,
where he had been to try if the sea voyage would benefit his health, only
I was afraid that I might, in his then weak condition, possibly sav some-
thing which might produce a very gloomy impression on his mind, and
thus in some way retard or prevent his recovery. For that reason I

denied myself the pleasure of seeing him. Only the night before he died,
he said to Mr. Latimere's son, who was attending him, " I would like to
have Dr. Broughton's opinion on my case."

After his death, at the request of one of his family, I wrote out a short
sketch of his nativity, also giving the aspects in operation at his death.



39° APPENDIX.

I have made this part of my Introductory Remarks much longer than
I had intended, and will close the subject by alluding to two or three
other matters which have reference to myself. I could fill a book of such
instances, but as the lawyers say, that would be only cumulative proof.

For a number of years I have been a member of a society called
" The Ancient Order of Druids," and after having been elected and
serving a term as its presiding officer, I have been elected and re-elected
Treasurer every term since. All the Lodges or Groves of that order in

the city of New York send delegates to a monthly meeting, which is called
the First Grand District, where they transact business for the mutual
benefit of all the Groves. I have been re-elected Treasurer for this Grand
District" for a number of years, and without opposition.

In the yearly elections of the Grand Gro/e of the State of New
York, for the year 1886, I was unanimously chosen Grand Treasurer
for that Grand Grove ; and when I was installed, a member belonging to
another Grove, was disposed to quarrel with me because I had not asked
him to be one of my bondsmen. We have had a Druidic University in

the city of New York for a number of years, although not in active
operation. I have been re-elected Treasurer every year since it was
incorporated.

I was also the Treasurer for the Eclectic Medical Association of the
State of New York, for a number of years in succession. Even private
persons who have been unfortunate in having their trunks robbed, and
from banks failing, have afterwards brought their money to me for safe

keeping, and without interest.

I simply mention a few of these circumstances, in order that the reader
may have some idea of my standing among people with whom I have
associated many years. And yet according to the " Penal Code " of the
State of New York, I am classed among " prostitutes," "gamblers," "for-
tune-tellers," " clairvoyants," and people of " disreputable character," and
I am liable at any moment, upon any frivolous complaint, to be arrested,

and even without a trial before a jury, to be consigned to prison for six

months or required to give bonds to a large amount, that I will discon-
tinue the practice of my profession.

It strikes me as very curious that the people and the law should regard
the same things and persons from such opposite standpoints. If these

laws were the will of the people, there ought to be no clashing, and the

two should run smoothly together. I have reference now to myself and
the "Penal Code." There is not a person who knows me, who would
class me among criminals, and yet the " Penal Code " does.

No wonder that the hardy toilers called the " Knights of Labor,"
should be willing to receive all classes of people into their order, either

men or women, except liquor sellers, and lawyers. The first rob them of
their money and their reason, and the latter of their money, and sometimes
of their rights, and their liberties. Next time the "Penal Code" is

revised, if the "Knights of Labor" (and they are growing stronger and
more numerous every day,) have anything to say in the matter, no doubt
the rumsellers, and the lawyers, will be classed with the prostitutes,

the gamblers, the fortune-tellers, the clairvoyants, and the disreputable



"

APPENDIX. 39I

characters. Of course I shall be sorry to keep such company, but if it is

the law of the State, I must submit to the inevitable.

But even this is not enough for Chas. A. Dana, of the "New York Sun."
In his newspaper, for years past, he has been writing articles and editorials,

drawing the attention of the Legislature to the great evil of astrology, and
urging that body to enact more stringent laws against the professors

of that science. But in the same articles he bewails the radicalism of the

New York Legislature, and is afraid that they are too liberal to do their

duty. In one instance he —
says: "Whatever excuse the ancients had for

their belief in astrology, there is no excuse for that belief at the present

day.
I have written replies to every article he has published against astrology,

for the last ten years, and have taken pains that they should all be handed
in to the chief editor of the " Sun," but he has never allowed one of my
replies to be published. The "Sun shines for all," but only all on one
side of a question, and that must be its own side.

Is Charles A. Dana afflicted with periodical fits of insanity, or with
the disease known to physicians as " Monomania "

? When persons are so

afflicted, there is no knowing when their malady will become dangerous.
At one time in his case, it shows itself in a violent hatred to astrology,

which, to coin a new word, may be termed " Astro-Phobia." At another
time it is a special animosity against the " Fraudulent President." Then it

developes itself into a great dislike to " Gen. Grant.'' At another time
it manifests itself in "Addition, Division, and Silence," and "Turn the
Rascals out." Now it is incubating itself in the President's Cabinet, and
the " Pan-Electric Telephone." But there is no knowing how soon it

may switch on to astrology again, and then he will want more stringent

laws against that science enacted. Therefore I give the New York Legis-
lature due notice, and they must govern themselves accordingly.
Some of Mr. Dana's attacks on astrology are ridiculous beyond con-

ception. Of course those persons who read them, and do not know
anything about the subject, cannot see where the laugh comes in. They
remind me of an incident at Saratoga, some time ago. Seeing posters up
on the walls stating there was to be a lecture, on a certain evening,
against Free Masonry, and being in search of more light, I traveled East
to hear the lecture.

No one who is not a Mason can form any conception of what the
lecturer had to say about the order, nor what ridiculous mistakes he
committed—not knowing what he was talking about. One of the great
objections he made against Masonry was that it was a "religion." He
said the Masons believed in a " God," they had an Altar, a Bible, and
a Hymn book, and if that was not a religion, he would like to know
what was. Moreover it was a religion from which " women," " cripples,"
the "sickly," and "imbecile" were excluded, and he might also have
added, that "Free Masons" excluded men like himself, who could not get
a "Mason" to vouch for their "honesty," their "good moral character,"
and for their character as "good citizens."

Is it not strange that men like the above lecturer, supposing them to
have only one grain of common sense in their heads, should be going



392 APPENDIX.

from town to town making fools of themselves, and discoursing on
subjects to people who are equally as ignorant as themselves ?

Charles A. Dana and others who publish attacks on astrology, are on
a par with this lecturer, and their articles are calculated only for persons like

themselves, who are altogether ignorant of that science. " Hamlet "must
have had such people as Mr. Dana and the aforesaid lecturer in his mind's
eye, when giving directions —

to the " players," says : " Though it make the
unskillful laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve; the censure of
which one, must, in your allowance, o'er weigh a whole theatre of others."

Compared to listening to the lecturer in question, it is even a pleasure

to read books which expose "Free Masonry, "as those authors sometimes
know a little of what they are writing about. But I shall not say one
word in defense of men who have, of their own free will, taken a most
solemn oath not to reveal certain " secrets," and yet afterwards have
broken that oath. Such men at least should not be admitted into the

society of really honorable men and women.
To prove how innocent people sometimes suffer, when legislatures com,

mence to enact bad laws, and those laws are carried into effect, I need
only refer to the reading of the Bible in the family, (a religious duty which
a great many Christian people deem almost indispensable at the present

day), but which was at one time regarded as one of the most heinous
offences, and if detected was attended with the most severe punishment.
I refer the reader to Benjamin Franklin's Autobiography, where he tells

us that his forefathers used a Bible fastened under the seat of a four-

legged stool, the leaves being held in their place by pack-threads ; and
that when they wanted to turn a leaf over they had to slide it under the
threads. When the family assembled to hear the reading of the Bible,

one of them was stationed at some distance from the house, to act as

"sentry," and to give warning of the approach of any stranger. If any
one appeared, the stool was instantly replaced on its legs, and the family
all looked as harmless as doves, as if they had been doing nothing
wrong or wicked. Yet those innocent people had been committing one
of the gravest crimes known to the law at that time, and if they had been
detected in the act they would all have been consigned to the " rack,"
the "boot," or the "screw," or might even have been roasted alive.

Of the real meaning of such terms as the rack, the boot, and the
screw, we can form but a very slight conception at the present day, and
it would take up too much space to describe the torture in these pages.

As in Geology, we can often trace an unwritten history of the epochs
and ages of the earth by noticing the strata, the rocks, and the fossils, so

we can trace the unwritten history of the human race by noticing old

ruins, pieces of pottery, medals, and ancient implements of war. We
can also find evidence of religious persecution in old buildings, which
likewise help us to decipher an unwritten history. Thomas Paxton
Hood, in one of his books, gives an account of the tearing down of an
edifice in the north of England. In the upper part of that building was
found a small room, about three feet wide, between two solid walls, with

a secret entrance thereto from above. On a table was found part of a

candle, a flint, steel som/? tinder an^ ? Bible laid open. Who the owner



—

APPENDIX. 393

of those relics was, God only knows. But we can imagine an old man
stealing into his little cubby-hole by a secret entrance, beginning to strike

his flint and steel together until he procured a light, and then commencing
to read his Bible. We can also see in our minds eye, the detectives dogging
him at every turn, until at last they have got evidence sufficent to convict
him ; and then he is lead oft to be roasted alive in this world, so as to

save him from an everlasting roasting in the world to come. And all for

the awful crime of reading the Bible.

If Charles A. Dana had been living in those days, no doubt he would
have said that " whatever excuse the ancient Jews had for reading the

Old Testament, and the early Christians for reading the New Testament,
there is no excuse for their reading either at the present day ;

" and he
would have used the columns of the "Sun" in advocating, and also in

pressing upon the attention of the Legislature, the need of more stringent

laws against the reading of the " Bible." No doubt he would bewail the
liberalism of Parliament, which prevented the full accomplishment of a

public duty. The worst of it is, when Legislatures commence to enact
laws of this class, they never know where or when to stop. At first they
might deem reading the Bible only a slight criminal offence, and enact a

law making it a misdemeanor, and if any one was caught after that time
reading the Bible, he would be consigned to the common jail for from
three to six months. But if there happened to be a judge on the bench
who was a ^ : o;oted Catholic, like Judge Gordon of Philadelphia, the
prisoner migiy-: then be convicted of a misdemeanor, and the judge,
exceeding his authority, sentence the prisoner to a felon's cell, or the state

prison. But still some people might continue reading the Bible, and of
course Bible reading must be stopped at any cost. The Legislature goes
on enacting more stringent laws, changing the crime of reading the Bible
from a misdemeanor to a felony, and from a felony to a capital offence,

punishable by hanging. Then, if that does not answer, they resort to the
rack, the boot, and the screw.
When they have commenced to make laws against Bible reading, it

must be stopped at all hazards, and at any cost. But the worst of it is ; the
best, the most noble, and generally the most intelligent men and women
suffer and are exterminated, while the debased, the bigoted, and the ignorant
are preserved to propagate their species. The reader may say I have been
drawing on my imagination for the forgoing facts, but I can assure him I

have been writing true history, and history that has occured in almost
every Christian civilized nation in the world; and the great danger is, that
history will repeat itself. But let us hope that the poet will not have to
write for the present age what he has written for the past, where he says:

" They have used the rack, the boot, the screw,
They have kindled high the martyr's fire;

All has been done, that fiends could do,
By malice, sophistry or ire;

They have burn't the books where truth was laid,
They have sunk the writers dungeon deep,

They have brought a thousand things to aid,
To keep the glorious truth asleep."



394 APPENDIX.

As one of the almost —
inspired writers says: "Truth is mighty and

must prevail." For that is a fixed law of nature, "Truth crushed to

earth," though it may remain crushed for ages, "will rise again."
I will now give a short account of a few persons who have become

interested in astrology, and who have also studied it as a science and labored
hard in its cause, and who therefore ought to know something of its truth
or falsity. Over twenty years ago, a man that I was slightly acquainted
with, came into my office, at 814 Broadway, New York, and after he
sat down, he looked around in astonishment at my library, and exclaimed,
" Why, you do not "

believe in Astrology !

Afterwards I engaged that man as an amanuensis, and to read lectures

on astrology for me in public, as he was a very good writer and speaker.
He also became a student of mine, studied astrologv, took great delight
in it, and made rapid progress in the science. After he had remained with
me some two years, we parted, and not good friends.

But in going around talking about me to his friends, (and those friends

came afterwards and reported it to me), he said : "Dr. Broughton is the
best man I ever met in all my life, and 1 would sooner believe the Doctor's
statement on any subject whatever, than I would any other man I ever
knew, under oath." I have inserted the above to show, when astrologers

fall out, the kind of Billingsgate language they use against each other; and
with what black colors they paint each others pictures ; and what dirty

linen they wash before the public.

I am sorry that Prof. Chaney, (for that is his name), used such harsh
language about me. But as Mr. Chaney is a hasty, hot headed man, he
spoke it no doubt in one of his excited moments ; and as it is near
twenty years since the above sentence was uttered, he probably has had
time to cool down, and would no doubt now use more sober language
when talking about me to his friends. Should Mr. Chaney and I not
become reconciled in this world, let us hope that our friendship will be
renewed in that ''summer land" beyond the grave, unless it be true,—as

almost every person believes, even up to the present day, that when a

man or woman commences studving astrology, the first thing they do is to

sell their souls to the devil. If that be the case, no doubt the devil will

hold us both to the "contract," and Mr. Chaney may pass the remainder
of eternity in upbraiding me, as being the cause of his having to spend
life everlasting in that warm climate, the devil's abode.

If Judge Gordon and the District Attorney of Philadelphia, could
onlv have got some astrologer like Mr. Chaney to lay bare the character

of Mr. Romaine, and could then have got some other astrologers to

"squeal " about astrology, as the boodle ex-Aldermen Fullgraff and DufTy
did about dividing the "boodle;" then, although Mr. Romaine could
only be convicted of a misdemeanor, Judge Gordon might, in that case,

very easilv have passed sentence on him for a capital offence, and consigned
him to the gallows.

When I was a little boy, a gentleman named Israel Holdsworth, one
day came round getting orders for books to be- delivered in parts, or
numbers. He came to our weaving shop, where my oldest brother was
weaving, and showed him a copy of a book on astronomy. While my



APPENDIX. 395

brother was looking over it, Mr. Holdsworth made the remark that
"Astronomy was a beautiful science, but was nothing to be compared to its

sister science Astrology." My brother was taken completely—by surprise,

but wishing to question Mr. Holdsworth further, he said : "Why, do
you believe in the nonsense of Astrology?" But he soon found Mr.
Holdsworth did not even know the first principle of the science.

Mr. Holdswoith afterwards took lessons in astrology from my brother,

and they became fast friends. He also brought a number of other
students, and they formed an " Astrological Society," and Mr. Holdsworth
drew up the rules and by-laws for it. This astrological society was not
the only society of the kind in the northern part of England. There
was another one that my cousin William Broughton, W. Simmonite,

J.
Mr. Haywood, and a number of others whose names I have forgotten

were members of. I believe they met once a week. Their method ot

procedure was that a member would give out a time of birth, and the

sex. For example :—a male, born Jan. 25th, 1840, at 1: 10 p. m., Leeds,
England. That would be all they had to go by. It was understood that

the child was remarkable for some particular thing, such as a violent

death, being crippled, or some special mental or bodily quality. Each
member of the society had to write an essay on the childs nativity. He
had not only to find out what the child was particularly noted for, from
its time of birth, but also if it would die a violent death. They must
state what particular kind of death, and at what age the death would
occur. A number of those nativities which were the most correctly

written were published, and the names of the writers given, in a monthly
periodical called the "Scientific Messenger."
We proposed carrying out that idea in the Astrological Society of the

city of New York, (of which I was President).

At that time a complete set of back years Ephemerides, or Almanacs,
could not be bought at any price. I remember the time when Mr.
Holdsworth came to consult my father about republishing a complete set'

of back Ephemerdes, commencing with the year of 1800 to the year 1850.
My father made the calculations for him, how many might be sold in

Great Britain and Ireland, and Mr. Holdsworth estimated how much the

printing and binding would cost.

The result was that the 50 years Ephemerides were reprinted. It was
a "labor of love " on Mr. Holdsworth's part, which cost him and his wife

five years of hard work. They kept a book store in Leeds, and lived

near by ; and while one was attending store, the other was setting the type

for the Ephemerides. In that way they kept on until it was completed.
At the time Mr. Chaney left me, the 50 years Ephemerides was out of

print.. He set to work to reprint it, and continued it from 1800 to the

year 1877. When completed, he kindly sent me a copy for myself,

and also sent one for my oldest son ; and we sold for him several copies

at $35 each.

No person who does not understand Astrology and Mathematical
Astronomy, can have anv idea of the amount of labor it cost to calculate

back for 50 or 100 years, the Longitude, Latitude, and Declination of the

Moon, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, and the planet Uranus, to



39^ APPENDIX.

the degree and minute for each day in the year ; and also the Longitude,
Declination and Right ascension of the Sun, in degrees and minutes for

every day for that length of time.

One reason why the work was so long and tedious for Israel Holdsworth,
was that he could only procure old almanacs, published by different authors,
and he had to rearrange the whole, for the 50 years; besides calculating

the Longitude and Latitude of Uranus entirely, for the whole fifty years,

as it had never before been calculated.

Mr. Holdsworth in his "Preface " —
says: "The scarcity and high price

of Ephemerides for past years has been deeply regretted by astrologers

generally. Hence, several attempts have previously been made by different

parties, but after printing one or two years, they have all abandoned the

attempt as too ponderous, or too hazardous a speculation."
Mr. Holdsworth, in some of his calculations had Mr. W.

J. Simmonite,
who had an academy in Sheffield, England, assist him. Mr. Simmonite,
I think, was the most learned and gentlemanly astrologer that England
ever knew. He spoke, wrote, and taught eight different languages ; besides

being a thorough scholar and mathematician. He published a number of
astrological works. His "Arcana of Astrology " will be a master-piece
of that science for hundreds or thousands of years to come. Mr. Chaney,
who republished the Ephemerides, prided himself on his knowledge of
Mathematics, and also on having surveyed large tracts of land for the

U. S. Government in the far West. He had also been an editor of daily

newspapers for years. By profession he was a lawyer, and he had been
District Attorney in Iowa, and in Bangor, Maine.

Mr. Chaney's work in republishing the 50 years Ephemerides was not
anything so laborious as th—at of Israel Holdsworth, as it was simply a

reprint ; though, as be says: " with over four hundred errors corrected."
But from 1850 to 1877, he would have most of the work to rearrange,
and would be obliged to make many calculations. But possibly it may
be best to let Mr. Chaney spe—ak for himself.

In his " Preface,'' he says : " So scarce have Ephemerides for past

years become, that they cannot be had for any sum." Tha—t was his excuse
for republishing them. In regard to his labor, he says : " I will say in

conclusion, that I have toiled very hard the past year and a half, setting

type and reading proof, with my mind on a constant strain to detect an
error. For months in succession, Sunday as well as week days, I have
made an average of fifteen hours daily labor."
Had Mr. Chaney, and Israel Holdsworth, been engaged in Christian

work, and labored as hard in converting the heathen, no doubt in this

world their name would have been added to the Calendar of Saints, and
in the world to come they would wear an everlasting crown of glory.

But as they have only been engaged in the work of teaching and spreading
the science of astrology, they have received nothing but persecution in

this life, and in the life to come, thev will be kept warm by an everlasting

fire, fumigated with a large percentage of brimstone, and will be enter-

tained with music consisting of weeping, wailing and gnashing of teeth.

While on the subject of Ephemeris, I ought to mention that Raphael,
of London, England, has also republished a complete set of Ephemerides



APPENDIX. 3^7

from the year 1800 up to the present time ; which set is the most complete
that has ever been issued in modern times.

The planet Neptune was discovered in September, 1846, and, previous
to that date, astrologers had no knowledge of the Longitude of that
planet. Consequently they could not calculate its effects in nativities, for

persons born before 1846.
A friend of mine asked a gentleman employed in the astronomical depart-

ment, under the U. S. Government, to calculate Neptune's position from
the year 1800 to 1850—. I cannot do better than give that gentleman's
own words. He says: "The positions of Neptune, between the year
1800 and the discovery of the planet in Sept. 1846, have never previously
been computed, and what I have now prepared is the Longitude for the
first and middle of each month for fifty years. For any other planet the
work would have been comparatively easy. But as Neptune became
known only in 1846, its previous path could only be discovered by special

calculation, based upon what is now known of its orbit."

The number of text-books on astrology, published at the present day,
is astonishing. There never was a time since the world began, when
there were such facilities for studying astrology and becoming familiar

wich that science. The circulation of English Astrological Almanacs, even
in the United States at the present day, is really wonderful. Over twenty
years ago, when Mr. Mason Hill started from California and had an order
to buy Raphael's Ephemeris for that year, there was hardly one to be had
in any store in the United States, from California to the borders of Maine,
except those that I imported. At the present day one store in Boston
sells more than three thousand of Raphael's Ephemeris every year, and
has been doing the same for a number of years.

Twenty five years ago my friends used to tell me that when I was dead
astrology would be dead also, as there would be no one left who under-
stood the science ; but if we may judge by the signs of the times, when
I am dead astrology will then begin to live. Any person who has not
given special attention to this matter would be astonished at the amount
of literature published at the present day on astrology, in addition to a
great number of Astrological Almanacs, which have over 500,000 circula-

tion in England and the United States every year.

"The Prognostic Star Gazer," a periodical published in Boston, Mass.,
also " The Dreamer," published in the Western States, are both inclined
to astrology. "The New York Sunday Mercury," has devoted a column
every week, for years, to astrology. " The New York Waverley " devotes
two columns every week, and the "Elmira Tidings" also devotes a
column every week. And astrological literature in all English speaking
countries was never more sought after and bought up than at the present
day. In England there are astrological works published every few months
for instructing people in that science. And within a very few years any
person totally ignorant of astrology (a state of mind which people have
specially prided themselves upon of late years), will hardly be tolerated

in learned and polite society. And then that condition of things will

arrive when there will be too many people who will seriously object to be
sent to prison for studying or practicing astrology, the same as there



9g8 APPENDIX.

were found too many people who seriously objected to being hung or
roasted alive, for being heretics or witches.

Is it not strange that the followers of a religion which was ushered into

the world some two thousand years ago, with the "glad tidings of peace
on earth and good will towards men," have ever since that time, whenever
they have been in the majority, always commenced to imprison, hang,
and roast people alive, who were so unfortuna'te as to be in the minority;
and, for no other reason than that they were in the minority.

Orthodoxy has always been the "doxy " of the majority, and heterodoxy
has always been the "doxy " of the minority. If we read English History,
or, for that matter, the history of any of the Christian nations, we find

that whenever by the fortunes of war a change of kings or queens occurred,
the religion which was formerly in the minority (or heterodoxy), instantly

changed into orthodoxy, and the orthodoxy changed into heterodoxy,
and all those who were heterodox had to surfer, like prisoners of war in

barbarous nations, until they were in power again, when the turn came
again for the former to be imprisoned, hung, or roasted^*

Regarding my ancestors and myself, a few words may be interesting.

My maternal grandfather, Benjamin Scott, resided in Wakefield, York-
shire, England ; his parents died when he was very young, and he made
his own way in the world ; becoming a woolen cloth manufacturer. He
was a Jacobite in politics, and suffered much for his support of the
" Pretender." My paternal grandfather, Luke Broughton, was a disciple

of Nicholas Culpepper. He studied astrology, along with the botanical

practice of medicine, and practiced both for many years. In early life

he was a manufacturer of cloth. In politics he was a " Tom Painer," the

object of which faction was to force an extension of the voting franchise,

it being at that time in the hands of property owners only. In that part

of England there were over four thousand men who met on moonlight
nights to drill on' the moors and commons, with the idea of fighting for

what they considered their rights. My grandfather was secretary for the

companies in his locality, and kept the books of their meetings, with all the

names of the members. The government tried in every way to break

up these organizations, and to this end the Earl of Cardigan sent for my
grandfather and told him the government had their spies, and knew all

about their meetings and drilling, and the Earl offered him a large sum in

gold, with a position under the government as long as he lived, and a

similar position for each son on coming of age, if he would give up
the books and leave the organization. My grandfather's reply was that

he could not be bought. The result was that a warrant was issued, on
the charge of treason, and my ancestor was a fugitive for over ten years,

seeing his family only at rare intervals, and then at night. He had so many
faithful friends, who kept a sharp look out for government spies, that he
was never caught ; but his property was confiscated, his business destroyed,
and his family reduced almost to poverty. In the latter part of his life

he received a small pension from the government, it being recognized that

the persecution was far in excess of the offense. On account of the

persecution of my grandfather, my father and his brothers had little to

do with politics, yet my father came near ending his days on the gallows.



APPENDIX. 399

About 1820, the government was determined to crush out all the
leaders of reform. It employed spies to go round to entrap all such, by
getting them to sign a paper which could be construed into treason. In

that part of England twenty eight signed the paper ; they were tried,

convicted, and all hung on one day. My father was approached, and
would have signed it, if it had not been for his father, who gave as a

reason that he had suffered so much for politics, that he objected to his

sons meddling in such matters. This prevented my father signing it, and
being added to the number.

In 1831 and 1832 the people held county meetings all over England,
in favor of the extension of the franchise, and the government, to avoid
a revolution, granted it. The franchise has since been gradually extended,
until now there is almost universal suffrage. If it had not been for such
men as my grandfather driving the entering wedge, the people of England
would have remained in a condition similar to that of the people of
Russia to-day.
My father was the second of three sons, and with his elder brother

studied medicine, spending a long period at the Leeds Infirmary ; he
studied astrology and made use of it in his practice of medicine, but
never made a business of it, though he had many students, among whom
was the late Thomas Lister of New York, and formerly of Boston. My
uncle, Dr. Mark Broughton, was a noted physician and surgeon, and used
astrology in his practice, which practice was larger than any other doctor's
in that part of England. My aunt, Martha Broughton, was an adept in

the science.

My father married Mary Scott, the only child of Benjamin Scott, before
mentioned, and had a family of six children, Mathew, Mark, Luke, John,.
William and Rachel. The first three, which included myself, studied
astrology, and continued to use it, both as a business and in private life.

My brothers, Mathew and Mark, were expert mathematicians and skilled

astrologists ; they came to America a few years before I did, and both
practiced astrology in Philadelphia. My brother Mark published a

monthly periodical for many years, called "The Horoscope;" also an
" Astrological Ephemeris."

Probably the incident which had the most influence in drawing me to

the science of astrology, was the truthfulness of a prediction made by
my father in my horoscope. On account of so many of the planets
being afflicted in mute signs, he remarked at my birth, to mv mother,
that I should not commence to talk till I was about six years of age, and
then imperfectly, with an impediment in my speech, till I reached my
nineteenth or twentieth year, when I should speak as well as the average
person. This prediction was absolutely true, and during my earlier years
no one but the members of our family could understand anything I said.

Many physicians examined my mouth and larynx, and the diagnoses of
the cause of my impediment of speech were as various as the doctors.
When I reached my twentieth year, my speech had gradually become
natural, and I have since spoken in public.

I commenced to study astrology when I was about eighteen, and have
continued in its light ever since. I married at twenty-four, and came to



;

4<DO APPENDIX.

America two years later; having served my time at weaving, and spent a

few years in a chemical laboratory. I settled in Philadelphia, where I

graduated at one of the medical colleges and remained about eight years,

coming to New York in 1863.* 1 have always made use of astrology in

the practice of medicine, which has been very extensive.

My great desire to spread the truths of astrology induced me in 1866
to lease a large hall at 814 Broadway, for the purpose of giving lectures

upon this and kindred subjects. For some years previous I had issued

a journal, called "The Monthly Planet Reader," and with these means
at hand, I believed astrology would soon reach that position for which
my ancestors and myself had labored so long and faithfully. I mis-
calculated the time, though ; the spirit of liberalism was still dormant,
and the powers of the religious sects were in too great command of the
minds of the people ; and although my lectures gave great satisfaction, and
were well attended, the cloven foot was soon made apparent. In the
same building was the headquarters of a political organization, called the
Mozart Hall, which was made up of the Catholic element of the city,

and when the object of my meetings became known to its leaders, the
whole power of the political machinery was put in motion to crush me.
My landlord wanted me to give up my lease, and when I refused, said he
would force me out ; after that I was subjected to all the annoyances
both great and small which it was in the hands of the powerful to inflict

upon the weak. My signs at the door were stolen, missiles were thrown
down the stairs during the time when people were coming to the lectures

men were sent to roll boxes on the floor above my hall to interfere with
the speakers, the owner of the building from whom I leased was caught
several times stealing my signs, and when arrested would be immediately
discharged on reaching the station house, because of his political power
the only man who did lock him up was Capt. Alex. S. Williams, who also

locked up the son-in-law of the landlord on a charge of disorderly con-
duct, made by my assistant, Mr. W. H. Chaney; Mr. Chaney was arrested

for this on a charge of false imprisonment, and spent six months in

Ludlow Street Jail, being unable to procure bail. My wife's health and
my own being broken down, having buried a very dear child, and being
almost ruined financially I gave up the struggle and moved from the
place much dissatisfied, and with a poor opinion of the so-called justice

meted out to those not having political influence in New York City.

I have in the twenty years which have elapsed since that time, practised

astrology in conjunction with medicine, and have three sons and a

daughter ; three of whom will become astrologers ; and while they may
not practice it for a living, they will teach it ; so that there is no danger
of astrology dying out during another generation at least.

* As an illustration of ignorance resulting in petty persecution, I might mention that at the
college where I graduated, tliey organized that winter, an Alumni Association. I was elected one
of the board of Censors, and signed all the Diplomas, but afterwards when the members dis-

covered that I had studied astrology, nothing would do, but that I must resign, a new Censor was
elected in my place, all the Diplomas destroyed, and new ones made out, without an astrologer's
signature. A petty persecution occurred to me before I left England. At the church 1 attended I was
a teacher in the Sunday School, and taught writing, drawing, phonography and arithmetic in a night
school supported by the church ; I was also librarian, all without compensation. When it became
known that I was studying astrology, I was told I must give up astrology or resign my positions. I
resigned.



APPENDIX. 4OI

Prof. RICHARD A. PROCTOR ON ASTROLOGY.

In the "New York World" of February 6th, 1887, appeared the

following article by R. A. Proctor, a popular lecturer on Astronomy. I

wrote an answer and sent it to that paper, but the editor refused to

publish it; I shall insert it after Mr. Proctor's article, and following will

be found my criticisms on Mr. Proctor and the World.
As the press is closed against anything in favor of Astrology and

Astrologers, even when in reply to personal attacks, and as the reader has
already seen that it was impossible to give public lectures on that science

in a city like New York, even though we had a long lease of the hall,

and it was entirely under our control for that purpose, there is no other
resource but to publish in circular, pamphlet, or book form, everything
we desire to place before the public to represent truthfully the Astrologer's

side of the argument. It may be very difficult for the reader to believe

that a number of printers have actually refused to print any literature on
Astrology, even though they were certain of their money, they believing

it to be wicked to print such work,

THE HUMBUG OF ASTROLOGY.
PROF. RICHARD A. PROCTOR SHOWS UP THE ALLEGED SCIENCE.—A BELIEF

THAT HAS CLUNG TO THE WORLD FOR AGES.—HOW THE WISE MEN OF
OLD WERE DECEIVED.—A REFUGE NOW FOR IGNORANT CHARLATANS AND
KNAVES.—GROWTH OF AN UNREASONABLE AND FOOLISH SUPERSTITION.

I am often astffed, but especially after some notorious astrological charlatan
has been exposed, whether it is after all so certain that astrology, universally
regarded in old times as a true science, is altogether vain and delusive. Can
it be, many have said to me, that all the wise men of past ages, those to whom
we attribute so many of the beliefs that to this day we hold sacred, can in

this matter of astrology have been wholly deceived ? Not only among all the
leading races of antiquity, and in all the chief civilized nations, but during
periods of time such as no other faith can boast of having swayed, men held
firmly to the belief that the stars in their courses foretell, nay, rule, the for-

tunes of men. The cuneiform inscriptions of Assyria, the hieroglyphs of
Egypt, the most ancient records of Persia, India and China, agree in showing
that of old all men believed the sun and moon, the planets and the stars, to
be as

Radiant Mercuries,
Carrying through ether in perpetual round
Decrees and resolutions of the god.

Nay, throughout the long period, to be measured by thousands of years, when
all men held this belief, the most part held what anciently had been the belief
of all, that the sun and moon and all the host of heaven are not merely the
exponents of the wills of the gods, but are actually as gods themselves. To
this day not only are all languages permeated by the expressions belonging
to the old astrological teachings, but all the feasts and fasts of the religions
of our age, purified though they have long been from Sabaistic beliefs, attest

in the clearest way, to the astronomer, their origin in Sabaistic observances.
To this day, Christians and Jews, Buddhists and Mahommetans, regulate their



4-02 APPENDIX.

yearly ceremonial by the solstices arH equinoctial passages of the sun, and
the weekly renewals of religious- observances were derived originally from the
moon's motions and were determined by the moon when "new" in her "first

quarter," "full " in her "third quarter," and "new "again. Among the Jews
and Mahommetans indeed the "new moon" observances and those which
formerly attended the rising and setting of the sun are still retained. As-
trology, the outcome of those Sabaistic beliefs which were once universally
prevalent, had a most respectable origin, and if common opinion couW prove
any doctrine just, astrology must, it should seem, have been based on truth.
Why, then, should it now be held only worthy of belief by the ignorant and
silly, and be maintained as true only by rogues and charlatans.
The answer is found in the very circumstances under which of old astrology

was believed in. The astrologers of old times were for the most part not
only honest men, but men moved by strong religious emotions. They were
also by no means wanting in reasoning power. As I pointed out long since
in my article on "Astronomy" in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, astrology
was based on reasoning in old times, and on reasoning which seemed sound
and sufficient 5 it was no mere superstition, and as it was based on reasoning
and its supporters honestly explained their reasons for the faith that was in
them, we are able not only to understand and in some degree appreciate their
doctrine, but also to recognize its utterly groundless nature.
They saw that the sun ruled unmistakably over the day and the year, and

thev recognized clearly, though they could not explain the matter as science
now explains it, that the sun is the life of the earth and of all things in it.

Day after day he renewed his victory over Night and brought all things to
life after the sleep Night had brought on them. Year after year he renewed
his victory over Winter, and brought life into field and forest, so that food and
nourishment were provided in due season for men and animals. None could
doubt that this orb at least ruled over the fates and fortunes of men and
nations. The moon seemed scarcely less obviously a ruling or controlling
orb. Even among nations, if such there were, who had never either observed
her influence on the tides or heard of it from others, she seemed to have
special power. She ruled the night, she measured time for them (nine-tenths
of the ancient names of the moon indicated her as "The Measurer," the rest

of her names, as Selene, Luna, &c, relating to her light), and pastoral races
blessed her as the orb most beneficial, in their belief, to all orders of herdsmen.
Can we wonder if, when two of the planets, for the sun and moon were two
of the seven planets of ancient astronomy, having thus been recognized as

unquestionably ruling men's fortunes in specific ways, the ancients believed
that so also must the other seven? And knowing, as we do, how prone half
knowledge is to fall into full assurance of faith, can we marvel if ancient
astronomers learned to assign special influence to Mercury and Venus, to

Mars, Jupiter and Saturn, on the strength of what seemed to them sufficient:

indications of the specific powers which those planets possessed? We find

that they certainly did this; and we can trace quite easily the line of thought
by which they were led to their ideas respecting the good or bad, the beneficent
or the malign influences which the planets in their belief exerted.
Thus what could be more natural than that Venus, the most beautiful of

all the planets to the unaided vision, should have been chosen as the planet
of love? Never seen save on the twilight sky, growing more beautiful when
she is an evening star as twilight deepens, while as a morning star she " faints in

the light that she loves, the light of the daffodil sky," she is the apt emblem,
the Cytherean goddess, ruler over love and courtship. And because of her
beauty Venus was naturally regarded as a favorite planet—she was the " Lesser
Good Fortune," as Jupiter was the greater. Nor was it less natural that

Mercury, so hard to detect with the unaided eye, that many astronomers now



APPENDIX. 40 *;

/Iving have never seen the pianet except through a telescope, should be
regarded as the planet ruling over all professions and occupations which
require craft and subtlety. Neither good nor bad fortune could be assigned
to a planet so seldom seen—though when seen in the skies of Chaldea, Egypt,
and Greece (as in those of America, by the way) Mercury shines with
specially resplendent lustre, insomuch that the Greeks knew him as the
Sparkler. What planet but the ruddy Mars could reasonably be regarded as

ruling over war and battle? Seen at longer and less regular intervals than
any other planet, shining with variable but always with portentous lustre, Mars
seemed like the torch of war, waved by the hands of Fate over the nations.
Naturally, too, outside his character as planet of war, Mars was regarded as

of evil influence ; as Venus was the Lesser Good Fortune, so Mars was the
"Lesser 111 Fortune," Saturn being the greater. Jupiter's wide circuit and
steady light, even surpassing that of Venus in splendor, because seen in the
night, whereas hers is visible only in the twilight, suggested power and steady-

rule for good. So also did his wide orbit, or rather his long period, for of his

distance the old astronomers knew nothing. Mars is longer unseen than
Jupiter, but the period of Mars's circuit round the star sphere is much shorter,
and therefore the old astronomers assigned Jupiter a wider orbit, (or, as they
expressed it, a higher sphere), and greater power : To the gloomy Saturn,
most beautiful of all planets in the telescope, but saddest and most baleful to
ordinary vision and moving still more slowly, in such sort that while Jupiter
takes less than twelve he takes nearly thirty years in circuiting the star

sphere, yet greater power, but even more malign influence, was as naturally
assigned.

Having thus decided on the special influences of their seven planets, the
ancients readily formed a svstem by which, as they supposed, the action of
those influences on the fortunes of men and nations might be determined.
When they had also learned how to calculate the positions of the planets for
any length of time in advance, they believed they had obtained full power
of predicting the fortunes of each man, so soon as, having calculated the
aspect of the heavens at his nativity, they had learned which planets were
most potent in their influence on his fortunes. And with this power of pre-
diction came some power of favoring good fortune and preventing evil ; in

other words, of ruling as well as reading the planets.
But the very circumstance that astrology, though a superstition, was a very

natural and even reasonable superstition in those old days, shows what an
unreasonable and foolish superstition it is now. The very fact that the old
astrologers were for the most honest, though mistaken, proves that the
astrologer of to-day must necessarily be a rogue and a charlatan. For now
men know how the sun and the moon produce their effects j they know why
Mercury seems shifty, and Venus lovely; how Mars comes to look red and
Jupiter bright and Saturn yellow. That a ruddy or ochre tinge in the con-
tinents of Mars, never less than forty millions of miles from us, should have
anything to do with war and turmoils on the earth, is an idea which none but
persons of very weak mind could for a moment entertain. That because
Venus travels inside the earth's track, and, therefore, can only be seen during
twilight, the loves of our boys and girls, our young men and maidens, aye,
and of our men and women who have passed the days of youth, must be
influenced by that sister world, never less than 26,000,000 miles from us, is a
thought too preposterous to need contradiction. And so with the splendor
of Jupiter, the gloom of Saturn, and the swift movements of Mercury. The
"astrologers" of to-day either know all this and make a lying pretense of
believing in planetary influences, or they are ignorant of it all and make lying
pretense to knowledge. Be the case how it may, they must of necessity be
lying knaves.



—
4O4 APPENDIX.

It is the same nowadays with all orders of fortune-tellers, character readers,
phrenologists et id genus omne. Nothing but the ignorance which mistook
itself for knowledge in the wise old times, could justify the claims put forward
by men of these classes. In our day there can be none who believe they
know how to read the stars, for those who alone know how to calculate the
movements of the heavenly bodies, know that the supposed influences of
these bodies were purely imaginary, and based on mere fanciful analogies.
Among "astrologers" there is no more knowledge of astronomy than there
is a knowledge of the physiology of the brain among "phrenologists." The
astrologer of old knew all the astronomy of his time; the astrologer of
to-day has written himself down a charlatan, and is probably an unscrupulous
rascal.

R„ichard Aa. rP>roctor.

After waiting three weeks and not noticing any reply to. Richard A.
Proctor, I wrote the following article and took it myself to the editor of
the " World," and told him that about one year ago they had published
a short communication of mine in favor of astrology, and that I had
brought a reply to Mr. Proctor's article. But at the same time I said

that possibly they, like the "New York Sun," publish only one side of
a question.

After keeping it a few days the article was returned to me with the
following note :

Dear Sir:—I regret to say, that, owing to the pressure upon our space, the
manuscript you kindly sent, has not been found available for the World's
columns. It is therefore returned as you requested. Thanking you, I am,
yours respectfully*
J r j> JTohn AA. ^Cockerill,

Managing Editor.

The following is the article which the "World" refused, although they
published Mr. Proctor's, which called all astrologers "lying knaves" and
"unscrupulous rascals," and the reader ought to bear in mind that no
astrologer had attacked Mr. Proctor's reputation or his standing in society.

* A friend of mine, a publisher, who has been the editor of a daily newspaper, and who had a
knowledge of Astrology, commenced an article in reply to Mr. Proctor, but on hearing that the
" World " refused to publish mine, came to the conclusion that it was of no use finishing it. Another
gentleman who is a physician in general practice, and has been a professor in two medical colleges
in this city, and who has published a number of medical works, also haf been the editor of a promi-
nent medical journal for a number of years, and has a good practical knowledge of Astrology, told
me that he would have replied to Mr. Proctor, if he did not feel positive that the " World " would
not publish his replv, having committed themselves against Astrology ; if they did publish it, he
feared it would be so garbled that he would not be able to recognize it.

1 have been credibly informed that Mr. Elias Colbert, who is editor of the " Chicago Tribune,"
and who is a good astronomer and astrologer, had to sign a contract before he took his position as
editor, that he would not even mention the word " astrology " in the " Tribune. " All those persons
whom I have talked to about Mr. Colbert, and who are personally acquainted with him. speak of
him in the highest terms, both as a gentleman and a man of science. None of those persons even
hint that he is either a '* lying knave " or an " unscrupulous rascal." Mr. B. C Murray, an astrolo-
ger and editor, and owner of a daily newspaper called the Dennison Gazetteer, Texas, and who has
perhaps the largest astrological library ill the world, sometimes mentions astrology favorably in his
newspaper, but has to do it very gingerly, so as not to injure its circulation.

Some years ago, on the death of a student of mine, Dr. Charles Winterburn, of this city, I
wrote an article for the "Truth Seeker," giving an account of him as an astrologer and physician,
and Mr. D. M. Bennett tod me .that he received a number of letters from subscribers, threatening
to withdraw their subscription, if any moie astrology appeared in the "Truth Seeker." In this en-
lightened age, we are inclined to believe that there is no prejudice or persecution of either science
or religion, and that to meet with it, we must go among the barbarians, or search for it in the history
of past ages ; but when the professor of one science calls all the professors of another science
" lying knaves " and " unscrupulous rascals," and the editors of the newspapers in which these
slanderous attacks appear, refuse to publish any reply to such attacks, it looks as if history was
repeating itself.



APPF.ryDix. 405

Mr. P—roctor ought to remember the words of " Othello " where he
say S " He that filches from me my good name, robs me of that which

:

not enriches him, but makes me poor indeed." I shall reserve my strictures

both for the " World" and for Mr. Proctor, until the reader can judge
of the refused article itself, by reading it.

REPLY TO MR. PROCTOR.

The article on " The Humbug of Astrology," in the " World " of February
6th, 1S87, from the pen of so great an authority on astronomical matters as
Richard A. Proctor, must carry with it so much weight that I fear many
will not admit the possibility of there being another side to the question, and
pass by any attempt to prove the contrary with a smile. Yet the position

assumed by Mr. Proctor is not impregnable ; as there have been as great men,
even in modern times, if not greater, in the science of which he is an able
teacher, who have held opposite opinions, on the science of astrology, to those
which he promulgates.
The article in question contains several peculiar assertions, and not a few

ideas which, viewed from another standpoint, convey an altogether different,

and a more logical conclusion ; and if we can allow prejudice to remain
dormant, for a short time, and judge from an unbiased standpoint, we may
with all due respect to Mr. Proctor differ with him, even in so far as to draw
a different or even opposite deduction from his own words and arguments.

Mr. Proctor says, " Can it be, many have said to me, that all the wise men
of past ages * * * in this matter of astrology have been wholly deceived?"
" Not only among all the leading races of antiquity, and in all the chief
civilized nations, but during periods of time such as no other faith can boast
of having swayed, men held firmly to the belief that the stars in their courses
foretell, nay, rule the fortunes of men.'" Again he says:—"Astrology had
a most respectable origin, and if common opinion could prove any doctrine
just, astrology must, it should seem, have been based on truth. Why then
should it now be held only worthy of belief by the ignorant and silly, and be
maintained as true by rogues and charlatans ?" " The Astrologers of old times
were for the most part not only honest men, * * * they were by no means
wanting in reasoning powers," * * "Astrology was based on reasoning which
seemed sound and sufficient."

If Mr. Proctor's object had been to lay a firm and solid foundation for the
Science of astrology, I do not see how he could have chosen more logical and
convincing arguments, and yet Mr. Proctor is so wilfully blind as not to see the
force of his own words. But as the author of the "Vestiges of Creation,"
when speaking of his critics in his preface, says:—"It is no discredit to them
that they are, almost without exception, engaged each in his own little department
of science, and are able to give little or no attention to that vast field outside
their department j all beyond is regarded with suspicion and distrust." This is

a truth, and almost every man believes his own religion or science to be the
only one that is right, and all the others wrong. Even in cases of men of the
same profession, each man appears to travel in his own narrow groove, and
thinks that men who travel in another path, to use Mr. Proctor's words, are
"lying knaves "and "unscrupulous rascals." For instance, the allopathic
physicians think that the homoeopaths are all dishonest in their practice of
medicine, and vice versa. The anatomists, as a rule, do not believe in
medicine, neither do the surgeons believe in aught but steel. Mathematicians
rarely are metaphysicians, and many botanists do not have any faith in the
medicinal effects of herbs and roots. Some persons are born with a natural
tendency in some one direction, and sometimes it is as the mind is trained^



4°6 APPENDIX.

some persons are practical, and some are theoretical, and they rarely admit
that truth exists outside their own sphere.
To the average person there appears but little difference between astronomy

and astrology, the general conclusion being that they both have to do with
the planets ; and with those persons the opinion of an astronomer is taken on
astrology, with full confidence in his ability to pronounce upon that subject.
There cannot be a greater mistake. The astronomer's opinion on astrology
is of no more weight than a botanist's opinion is on the action of herbs on the
human system, if the botanist is not also a physician. Astronomy deals with
numbers, and the inanimate laws of nature. The astrologer depends on the
long continued observation of the effects of the positions and revolutions
of the heavenly bodies on the earth and its inhabitants. Some of the most
noted and learned men of the world have been astrologers. The great John
Kepler, to whom the science of astronomy of the present day is so much
indebted, was a firm believer in astrology. He made many discoveries in
astrology, which are almost equal to those he made in astronomy.

Baron Napier, to whom mathematicians are so much indebted for his mar-
velous discovery of logarythms, used them solely to facilitate his astrological
calculations. Flamstead, the first astronomer of the Greenwich Observatory,
England, Placidus De Titus, Cardan, Galileo, Bishop Butler, and almost every
astronomer of any note in the past, were firm believers and promoters of this

science ; of which Mr. Proctor says:—" No one who understands astronomy
believes in astrology. The old school doctors used to say that no person
who understood anatomy, physiology, chemistry, and materia medica, believed
in Homoeopathy. Yet Homoeopathy lives, and its practitioners are the most
intelligent physicians of the present day.

Is it not a strange assertion for Mr. Proctor to make, that all the ancients
had upon which to base their belief in astrology, a belief which lasted for

thousands of years, was the color of the planets; that men who, Mr. Proctor
says, had good reasoning faculties, would cling to a faith which was based on
a mere fancied resemblance between the baleful hue of the light emitted by
Saturn, and the dark forebodings of a person in despondency?

This assertion on the part of a man who is altogether ignorant of astrology,
to account for the faiths of persons who lived thousands of years ago, is

rather impertinent, to say the least, when we have the books of those ancient
astrologers, which teach the contrary.

It is true that astrology had an honest parentage. Its cradle was the
patient observation and experience of the greatest men of all past ages; its

boyhood the books containing the experiences and observations of those men,
and its manhood was the grandeur of its following and its hold upon their

reason, and the facts and experience which went to confirm that reason.
Astrology flourished for ages; and that its growth and power were great,

is of itself proof that it was built upon the laws of nature. It continued
in power and held its place until the middle of the seventeenth century, when
the Protestant Reformation began to be established, (which religion was built

upon faith and miracles, and ignored the laws of nature,) when it was sup-
pressed by the religious sects of that period, and placed under the ban of the
church, and astrologers were classed and persecuted among the witches and
wizards. Since that time every form of divination has been condemned by
every one without investigation, except a few followers.
The assertion made by Mr. Proctor, that the reasons which made it pos-

sible for men of past ages to believe in astrology are not reasons which can
be accepted at the present day, is preposterous; and it is strange that any
person outside of an insane asylum should make any such an assertion without
proof. The laws of nature have not changed, the condition of our earth in

its surroundings and its relations to the other planets of the solar system have



APPENDIX. 467

not changed, the facts and observations upon which the ancients based their

belief, are still the same.
The Ptolemaic theory of astronomy, that the earth was in the centre of the

universe, and that the sun went round the earth every day, which caused
day and night, was wrong, but the discovery of the Copernican system of
astronomy, did not alter the order of things on our earth, day and night,
summer and winter, and every law of nature that existed previous to that
discovery, remains the same to-day. Those observations and experiences,
extending over thousands of years, which the ancients made in astrology and
recorded in books, are truths which live to-day.
The ancient practice of medicine was not overthrown by the discovery of

the circulation of the blood 5 religion lived in all its purity, after geology was
taught in our colleges, and astrology will live long after Mr. Proctor is turned
to clay.

I do not write this reply to Mr. Proctor to convert him to a belief in
astrology, and no doubt he regards me as one of the modern heretics who
ought to be either imprisoned or roasted alive. There has always been, and
must always be, a difference of opinion on science and religion, in order that
the world of thought should progress. When every person thinks and believes
alike on every subject, and where dogmas and creeds are thrust down people's
throats and no questions asked, then we shall revert back to the dark ages
and to that conservatism that made this world a hell for Columbus, Galileo,
and Copernicus, and all the other heretics either in science or religion.
How much of positive science is known, even in our own enlightened age,

that was not known to the ancients ? There is very little but theory, and
theories which may be overthrown at any time, and yet Mr. Proctor, resting
on so insecure a basis, calls all those who are so unfortunate as to differ from
him "lying knaves" and "unscrupulous rascals."

Astrology may be dead so far as Mr. Proctor is concerned, but he is not
the whole world. There are hundreds of students in astrology in England
and this country, and there are hundreds of thousands of firm believers
in that science, and the number is constantly increasing. The Almanacs
and Ephemeris published every year, by Raphael and Zadkiel of London,
and which are purchased by the believers in astrology, number over half a
million. T ~ ,, „ n

L. D. Broughton, M. D.
66 West 4th 'St., New York.

The above is a copy of the article, with very slight changes in the
wording, which the editors of the " World " refused to publish. Yet
they published Mr. Proctor's " Humbug of Astrology," which stated
" that the astrologer of to-day must necessarily be a rogue and charlatan."
Consequently the astrologers of to-day, according to the ethics of the
New York "World," must be tried, convicted and sentenced without
being heard in the public press.

This narrow bigotry resembles the intolerance that almost up to the
present time prevails in the English Courts, where prisoners of the down-
trodden Irish race are prevented from speaking in their own defence ; the
officers of the court silencing them when attempting to testify. Such
oppression frequently came to my personal knowledge, when a resident
of Leeds, England.
Had those prisoners been Russians, Prussians or Frenchmen, they would

have been heard in their own defence, or the nations to which they
belonged would have known the reason why, even if it led to a war.



4°8 APPENDIX.

Had Mr. Proctor published in the " World " an attack on all the
physicians, or all the ministers, lawyers, or musicians, or indeed any other
profession, ( but astrologers,) and called them all " lying knaves " and
"unscrupulous rascals ;" and had the "World " refused to publish a reply
to such falsehoods, and vituperations, even at the present day of intoler-

ance, I cannot but think it would make a sensation, and the "World'*
itself would lose caste, especially among those persons who had received
a liberal education and were inclined to freedom of thought, free speech,
and fair play. This intolerance almost equals the Lord George Gordon
riots, which were supposed to belong to the past ; but the reader has
already seen what I have passed through in and for the cause of Astrology
in the civilized city of New York, and near the present time.

The Catholics of England, in 1778, petitioned the government to

repeal certain unjust penal laws of long standing, which classed popish
priests as felons or traitors; also the forfeiture of real estate by Catholic
heirs educated abroad ; the power which was given to a son or nearest

relation, being a protestant, of taking possession of a father's or other
relative's estate, who had been Catholics ; the depriving papists of the
power of acquiring landed property, &c. Parliament heard the petitioners

and the repeal was granted. But instead of all classes in England and
all religious denominations rejoicing and having bon-flres on account of
the repeal of such barbarous and unjust laws, nearly 60,000 persons met
in St. George's Fields, London, and walked in procession to Palace Yard,
to give force to the remonstrance they were about presenting to Parliament
against the repeal of the above laws. The prayer of the remonstrators
being rejected, the mob headed by Lord George Gordon gave way to

violence. The Catholic chapels and the prisons were forced and set on
fire ; no less than thirty fires were to be seen blazing at one time. For
five days the rabble had possession of London, and nearly five hundred
persons were killed or wounded.

I give the above to illustrate how much easier it is to enact than it is to

repeal bad laws, when prejudice and ignorance are in the preponderance,
and how unreasonable it was for Parliament to have enacted laws granting
such unjust privileges and monopolies to such pious christian people as the
Lord George Gordon rioters proved themselves to be. No doubt if

there were efforts made to repeal the fortune-telling law of Pennsylvania,
and to strike the corresponding clause out of the " Penal Code " of New
York, Mr. Proctor and the editors of the " World " would be ready to

head a riot to oppose—such a repeal,

Mr. Proctor says : "In our day there can be none who believe they
know how to read the stars, for those who alone know how to calculate

the movements of the heavenly bodies, know that the supposed influences

of those bodies were purely imaginary, and based on merely fanciful

analogies."

If Mr. Proctor had been laying a wager that he could tell the greatest

falsehood, there might be some excuse for writing the above sentence ; but
he has no more excuse than the Protestants had in the Lord George
Gordon riots, in 1778, and it shows an equally vicious disposition on his

part.



APPENDIX. 4O9

I suppose Mr. Proctor knows that for ages upon ages the words
astronomy and astrology had very nearly the same meaning, and during
all that time the calculations in the science of astronomy were made
solely for the astrologer, and for him to make his predictions from ; or in

other words the astronomers were the hewers of wood and drawers of
water for astrologers, and the latter were always the advisers and privy
counsellors of Kings, Emperors and Pharoahs in ancient times.

When the science of navigation became more developed and better

understood among mariners, these calculations were also made for sea

captains who took long voyages, as well as for astrologers, and the two
sciences, astronomy and astrology, gradually became separated.
No doubt the navigator in ancient times made his own calculations in

astronomy, but as navigation and astronomy were developed, the two
gradually became separated. Yet the former is dependent on the latter

for its gradual perfection, as the astrologer is dependent on the perfection
of the science of astronomy for the accuracy of his predictions.

In the dim ages of the past, even before the days of Hippocrates, the
botanist and the practitioner of medicine were one and the same person,
but as the science of medicine and surgery became more developed and
extended in its application, and the science of botany progressed, and
new herbs and plants were discovered, these two sciences gradually became
separated ; and each student studied and extended his own favorite and
special science. But the botanists of the present day do not call the
physicians " lying knaves " and " unscrupulous rascals." The most learned
botanist that I ever knew, who could tell almost every herb and plant
which grew in the United States, when we were out together in the fields

botanizing, often laughed at the very idea that those herbs and rjots
could have any medicinal effect upon the human body. When travelling

along together we often had this matter up for discussion, but it was
imposible for me to convince him of his error as he had no knowledge
of diseases or the method of treating them. Had he studied medicine,
and had forty years practice, like myself, there would then have been no
necessity of any argument to convince him of his error.

Had that botanist called all physicians " rogues and charlatans," he
would have manifested a want of good taste equal to that of Mr.
Proctor, when he calls all astrologers by such names. He knew as

much of the practice of medicine as Mr. Proctor knows of the practice of
astrology, and the botanist also believed "that the supposed influence"
of the herbs and roots on the human system was purely imaginary,
and based on merely fanciful analogies, ( such as the signatures of herbs
and roots of the ancients, and the supposed magical effects they had on
the human system.) That belief of the ancients is no proof that herbs
and roots, when they are administered at the present day, have no effect

on the bodies of men or women ; on the contrary it is presumptive evidence
that they not only have an effect now, but that they have always had an
effect when so administered, from time immemorial, and will always
continue to have an effect to the end of time. But the theories which
attempt to account for these effects may change, and may continue to
change from age to age. So the belief, for so many thousand years, of



"

A 10 APPENDIX

the ancients, in the influence of the sun, moon and planets on men and
nations, is presumptive proof that that belief was correct, and founded on
the laws of nature ; and the reader will see in the pamphlet which follows

these Introductory Remarks, that there is positive proof that the heavenly
bodies do continue to influence men and nations, and indeed all mundane
affairs. Instead of Mr. Proctor calling me and all other astrologers "lying
knaves" and "unscrupulous rascals," and writing articles in the "World"
about what the ancients "believed" or "imagined," I think" it wnuld
be more becoming in him, as a gentleman, to first produce some tangible

evidence or proof of the falsity of astrology and the dishonesty of its

professors.

If we can believe the accounts in the New Testament, during Christ's

time, in Palestine, the general belief was, that when any person was sick,

or afflicted bodily, it was produced by evil spirits or devils entering that

diseased person's body ; and if they could succeed in casting these devils

out, the diseased person instantly became well, and could take up his bed
and walk. What the people believed in Christ's time, cannot be taken
as proof that there are no diseases in the human family at the present day,
but what are produced by evil spirits or devils entering the bodies of those
diseased persons? Some "rind of diseases have existed in the human family
in all ages, and it is only the theory of the cause of those diseases which
has changed?
Why does not Mr. Proctor bring arguments to prove that all the

diseases of the human body " were purely imaginary, and based on merely
fanciful analogies," as the ancients believed that all those diseases were
caused by evil spirits entering those diseased person's bodies? and even
have the Bible on his side, because it is stated in it that there were persons

who witnessed Christ casting out those devils and evil spirits, and the sick

becoming well, and the spirits entering into swine ; and go on to show
according to the scriptures that the doctor " of to-day must necessarily

be a rogue and charlatan," and also that they are all " lying knaves " and
ft unscrupulous rascals?" He can bring much stronger arguments against

the doctors, and have stronger reasons for calling them vile names, than
he can possibly bring against astrology or astrologers.

Mr. Proctor's "facts" and "reasoning" not only apply to doctors and
astrologers, but to almost every other profession that is practiced at the
present day ; and I am not defending astrologers alone, but I am actually

defending all other professional men from being called " lying knaves
and "unscrupulous rascals," even including Mr. Proctor himself.

Let us take another illustration, to prove my assertion. There is

about the same relation between acoustics and music, as there is between
astronomy and astrology ; and it would be just as reasonable for Mr.
Proctor to have said:—That all music was an ancient " superstition,"

and that the musicians " of old times were for the most part not only
honest men, but men moved by strong religious emotions," and that music,
" though a superstition, was a very natural and even reasonable superstition

in those old days, this fact shows what an unreasonable and foolish

superstition it is now." "The very fact that the old" musicians "were
for the most honest, though mistaken, proves that the " musician " of



APPENDIX. 411

to-day must necessarily be a rogue and a charlatan ;" as the ancients
believed in the "music of the spheres," the singing of angels, and the
magic charm of sound, &c, &c. And the ancients had practically no
knowledge of the science of acoustics, or not near as much as they had
of astronomy. Consequently, according to Mr. Proctor's reasoning, ail

the musicians of the present day must be much more ignorant of acoustics

than the astrologers are—now supposed to be ignorant of astronomy ; and
he would also say that : " Those who alone know how to calculate the"
vibrations of sound, " know that the supposed " musical notes, " were
purely imaginary, and based on merely fanciful analogies," and that the

musician of to-day "must of necessity be a "lying knave" and an
" unscrupulous rascal," as he could prove it by the science of acoustics.

Mr. Proctor might with just the same reasoning and propriety have used
all the above expressions against musicians, as he has against astrologers,

although he might not have the least taste or skill for music himself, any
more than he has for the science of astrology; in short he might not be
able to perceive any difference when listening to the tunes of Yankee
Doodle and Old Hundred. Yet music is built upon the science of
acoustics, as astrology is built upon the science of astronomy.

I am aware that there is a vast difference between music and astrology,

and between acoustics and astronomy, but bear in mind I have only used
them as comparisons, and to show that the only way to prove or disprove
the falsity of music is by music itself, and by music of the present day,
and not by what the ancients knew about music, or by what they knew
of the science of acoustics, or the calculation of sound vibrations. So
the truth or falsity of astrology can only be proved or disproved by
astrology itself of the present day, and not by what the ancients believed
or did not believe about astrology, or the brightness, color, or quick
movements of the planets, and Mr. Proctor may yet find that the

astrologers of to-day know better how to calculate the movements of the
heavenly bodies than he knows himself.
When an astrologer erects a horoscope, or map of the heavens for

any person's time of birth, he calculates the exact position of all the signs

of the Zodiack on each of the cusps of the twelve houses, to the degree
and minute, for the exact longitude and latitude of the place where the

person was born. He also calculates the daily and hourly motions ol the

sun, moon, and of all the larger planets; also the longitude, latitude,

right ascension, and declination of the moon, and seven of the larger

planets, and the right ascension, declination, and longitude of the sun.

Also the meridian distance, the semi-diurnal, or semi-nocturnal arcs; the
oblique ascension or descension, and the distance from the preceding,

or the succeeding cusps of the houses, of the sun, moon, and all the largei

planets. When the astrologer has made all these calculations, he has
has only laid the foundation, or drawn a speculum of the person's nativity

;

and when all this is done, the main or most important part of his calcu-

lations is yet to commence, such as the transits, (or the movements of
the heavenly bodies, as Mr. Proctor calls them,) and the directions, both
secondary and primary, and converse and direct, the parallels, and rapt
parallels, &c, &c. Yet Mr. Proctor says (heaven save the mark!) that



"

412 APPENDIX.

the astrologer of to-day cannot calculate the movements of the heavenly
bodies. I mean to say that if any person were to offer Mr. Proctor a
million dollars to calculate a nativity properly, with all the transits and
directions, and read it off, he could not do it, with all his pretended
knowledge of the science of astronomy, and his " calculation of the
movements of the heavenly bodies." I very much doubt whether he
even knows the meaning of one half of the scientific terms which I have
just used, let alone making the astronomical calculations referred to.

It may be asked, why does Mr. Proctor make such statements about
astrology and astrologers, when he knows them to be untrue. The fact
of the matter is, Mr. Proctor is a Catholic, or at least a particular friend
of mine, an editor, told me that he heard Mr. Proctor say himself that
he was a Catholic, and he being of that religious denomination, like

Judge Gordon of Philadelphia, regards all astrologers as criminals, even
without a shadow of proof that they have committed any crime, either
against God or man.

In view of the fact that Mr. Proctor is a devotee of that most super-
stitious of all Christian beliefs, that of the Church of Rome, the severity
of his denunciation of superstition in his attack upon astrology is not
a little singular. But what else could be expected from a votary of a
church notoriously opposed to all progress and reform, a church that
burned alive John Huss, (even when he had a safe conduct to his trial,)

and also thousands of other good men and reformers, and which also

perpetrated the terrors of the Inquisition.
Is it not a little singular that astrologers are " lying knaves " and

** unscrupulous rascals " only in Christian countries, and even in those
Christian nations only within the last two hundred years? In all other
civilized countries, (and which cover more than three-fourths of the globe,)
they have always been looked up to, and held in the highest esteem
from time immemorial, even up to the present day. I shall bring some
remarkable facts to prove this assertion in the volume which follows.

And as Mr. Proctor —
says : " The cuneiform inscriptions of Assyria, the

hieroglyphs of Egypt, the most ancient records of Persia, India, and
China, agree in showing that of old, all men believed the sun and moony
the planets and the stars, in their courses foretell, nay, rule the for-
tunes of men." Is it not strange that in all those nations astrology is

studied, even at the present day, by the most learned and intelligent

people of those nations, and put to the test every day by thousands of
people, and relied on as a science by hundreds of millions of people in

their every day life, and has been for thousands of years ;—that those
people have never discovered that the astrologers are " lying knaves
and "unscrupulous rascals," while in Christian countries, where the prac-
tice of astrology is almost a lost art, and out of the vast number who now
treat this ancient science with supercilious ridicule, there is not one in a

thousand who know distinctly what it is he laughs at, and yet astrology

has sustained a most conspicuous part throughout the history of the world?
Are ignorance and want of practical experience the tests by which Christian
people prove or disprove everything? I will defy Mr. Proctor to find a

single astrologer even in those Christian countries, who has had any practical



APPENDIX. 4 1 3

experience in that science, but what holds astrology in as high esteem as

he, or any other —astronomer holds astronomy. Does this not prove, as
" Hamlet " says : " There is something rotten in the state of Denmark?"

But what is the—cause of all this change in Christian nations, which, as

Mr. Proctor says : "proves that the astrologer of to-day mu—st necessarily

be a rogue and a charlatan?" Is it, as Mr. Proctor says: "now men
know how the sun and the moon produce their effects ; they know why
Mercury seems shifty, and Venus lovely, how Mars comes to look red,

and Jupiter bright, and Saturn yellow."
Does Mr. Proctor or any other astronomer know all those things? If

he does, why is it not made known or published ? I should like to be
informed myself in all those matters. But the fact of the matter is, that

those astrologers of old knew as much about those things as Mr. Proctor,
or any other astronomer of the present day. The ancients had their

theories about those " effects," and Mr. Proctor has only theories, which
theories may be upset any day. But suppose we did " know how the sun
and moon did produce their effects," or how "Venus looks lovely, Mars
red, Jupiter bright, and Saturn yellow," (which I totally deny,) that would
have nothing to do with upsetting the science of astrology. It might
possibly help to explain some things we do not now understand, and, of
course, place that science on a firmer foundation than it ever had before.

If Mr. Proctor did not happen to know everything, and I was not
" ignorant and silly," and a " rogue and charlatan," it might be possible

for me to explain to him how astrology fell into disrepute in Christian
nations, and more especially within the last two hundred years. But the
reader of these Introductory Remarks may not be so wise and know every
thing, like Mr. Proctor, and may possibly not be in the condition of the
man whom Solomon speaks of, where he —

says: "seest thou a man wise
in his own conceit, there is more hopes of a fool than of him." And
Solomon does not appear to have a very high opinion even of a fool,

where he —
says : " Though thou shouldest bray a fool in a mortar among

wheat with a pestle, yet will not his foolishness depart from him."
Therefore as it may possibly be interesting for the reader to know how

it came about, that astrologers who had been held in the highest venera-
tion for thousands of years in all civilized nations, and have always been
the counsellors and advisers of Kings, Queens, Emperors, Sultans and
Pharoahs, have changed of late years in Christian countries into " ignorant
charlatans," "lying knaves" and "unscrupulous rascals," I will endeavor
to explain to the best of my ability, although it may not be very
flattering to either Mr. Proctor, Judge Gordon, or even to those Christian
nations which have enacted laws against astrologers and astrology.

I shall divide these explanations into three parts or sections. 1st. The
Christian Religion. 2d. The Reformation and Witchcraft. 3d. The
change from the Ptolemaic system of astronomy to the Copernican system.

First.— The Christian Religion.—The Christian religion was entirely

unique at its commencement, nothing ever being like it before, or can
be compared to it since. Its very inception was a miracle, and it appeared
to consist of nothing but miracles, saints, and relics, for over a thousand
years, and the laws of nature were entirely ignored by its followers, who



414 APPENDIX.

were a class of people entirely separated from their fellow beings, and
who were a kind of a cross-breed between the socialist and anarchist of
the present day, and if we can believe the New Testament, the laws of
nature were either entirely suspended, or else they were terribly out of
joint, and went limping along similar to a man with a long leg and a short
one. The conception of Christ was a miracle. His birth was another.
His whole life appeared to consist of nothing but miracles ; such as

turning water into wine, walking on the water, stilling the storm, feeding
thousands with rive loaves and two fishes, raising the dead, healing the sick

with the touch, casting out devils, and even those devils talking to Christ
after they were cast out, &c, &c. Christ's death was a miracle, and
His resurrection, and His eating and drinking afterwards with his disciples,

were all miracles, and His ascension into heaven was another miracle.

Consequently such occupations as those of doctors, astronomers, astrologers,

farmers, and even fishermen, who had to depend on the laws of nature in

order to successfully carry on their business, were all played out ; but as

the people could not continue to subsist upon miracles, or rather provi-
sions miraculously produced, all those employments gradually came into

use again. But as the early Christians believed that by praying to Christ,

Virgin Mary, or some other saint, or by possessing some " relic," the

laws of nature could easily be changed in their particular cases, the
science of astrology, which is entirely built upon those laws, has never
been fully recognized by the people professing the Christian religion, as

it has been by all the other religions, (whose creeds did not consist of
miracles,) and all other civilized nations, but Christian, in every other
part of the inhabited globe. Those Christians that profess a religion

which consists of the greatest amount of superstition, similar to the

Roman Catholic religion, love astrology about as much as the devil loves

holy water; hence when bigoted Catholics like Mr. Proctor or Judge
Gordon have a chance to show their venom and hatred against an
astrologer, they never let the opportunity slip.

Not only Catholics, but all ministers of the gospel are specially opposed
to the science of astrology, and deem it specially wicked to even desire

to know anything of our prospects for the future, and any person giving

way to such a weakness was placed in the—catalogue of those persons

whom Christ speaks of when he says that : " whomsoever looketh on
a woman to lust after her, has committed adultery in his heart already."
Some thirty years ago there was not a Sunday passed, in a city like New
York or Philadelphia, but what some minister was preaching about the

wickedness of astrology or fortune-tellers, in short it was a constant text

or theme for a sermon, similar to " If a man gains the whole world, and
lose his own soul," or "Go and sin no more," &c, &c. But ministers

no longer preach sermons against astrology, and we are gradually coming
back to the laws of nature. Miracles and relics of saints are held at

a discount, thanks to the lectures and writings of such men as Profs.

Tyndall, Huxley and Darwin, who are teaching the people that the

world is governed by fixed laws, and that the condition and happiness of
man is improved by understanding and obeying these laws ; and on
account of the perihelion of the superior planets, a great number of the



: — —

APPENDIX. 4 ] 5

newspapers, both in this country and Europe, have articles on the influence

of the planets, as for instance

The London Evening Standard of July 6th, 1880, in commenting on Mr.
B. G. Jenkins' paper on Meteorology and Planetary Influence, read by him
before the Dulwich College Geological Club, said:

"From the lofty heights of modern science we have been accustomed to

look down with pity and contempt upon the astrologers of the Middle Ages,
the weak dabblers in science who were foolish enough to believe that the
stars had an influence upon man. An allusion to astrologers was always
good to raise a laugh at a science meeting, and the astrologers and alchemists
were classed together as either dreamers or charlatans. Of late years, how-
ever, a certain reaction has set in. The astrologer is becoming rehabilitated

very rapidly. The influence of the planets upon the earth is now admitted
to be very distinct, and fresh proofs of their disturbing influences are con-
stantly cropping up."

Second.— The Reformation and Witchcraft.— Besides the "creeds"
and " dogmas," the practical part of the Catholic religion consisted of
good works, and a life of purity and celibacy, which were necessary for a

person to perform miracles, their souls to be added to the calendar of
saints, and parts of their bodies to serve the purpose of relics. The
reformation changed all this, faith was put in the place of good works
and purity, marriage was substituted for celibacy, witchery took the place

of miracles, and everything which had the appearance of the supernatural
or of mystery was classed under the name of witchcraft, except that

miraculous change of heart which was necessary to get "religion," or be
converted from evil ways. Man had nothing to do with the laws of
nature, neither had the laws of nature anything to do with man.

" In Adam's fall,

We sinned all."

Consequently before man was converted he was under the power of
the devil, and after he was converted, he was controlled by the grace
of God. Within the last twenty years, when m—inisters were giving notice
of religious meetings, they would invariably say : " The Lord permiting,"
or "The Lord willing." It was blasphemy to even suppose that man
was subject to natural laws, and years ago, every one was accused of
witchcraft who attempted to trace those laws, or tried to find out their

effects, and to calculate them in a person's nativity was equivalent to

sinning against the Holy Ghost, which is never forgiven either in this

world or in that which is to come. To be accused of witchcraft was
certain to be followed by conviction and execution. The injunction
given to the ancient Jews in the Old Testament, "Thou shalt not suffer

a witch to live," was carried out to the letter, not only against witches,
but also against astrologers, by the Protestant Reformers in all Europe,
and in some parts of America. In some countries in Europe there were
persons employed as detectives, whose special business it was to hunt up
witches and bring them to justice ; they were called witch finders, and
very few supposed witches or astrologers escaped them, especially when
put to the torture. This persecution has continued almost to the present
day. Even within the last twenty years a satirical writer in New York,
who was known by the name of " Doesticks," wrote a book pretending



4^6 APPENDIX.

to give an account of all the Fortune-tellers, Clairvoyants, Spiritualists

and Astrologers in this city ; and he called his book " The Witches of
New York." Under the belief, no doubt, that the Devil cannot be painted
too black, he appears to have told as many lies about them as he could
well put together. Only a few years ago the " New York Sun " gave
an account of a woman in the Eastern States who had made a prediction
in regard to the election of Gen. Garfield. The " Sun " did not say
whether the woman was a fortune-teller, Gipsy, clairvoyant, spiritualist

or astrologer ; it simply stated that she was a " witch," and that term
appears to cover everything of that nature.

When I was attending Medical College, the Prof, of Anatomy, in

giving a description of the eye, remarked that if we were in doubt as to
the name of a disease of the eye, we could call it Ophthalmia, as that

meant simply disease of the eye, and covered everything else. In this

way it has been the custom to class all forms of divination under the

term witchcraft, and astrologers and fortune-tellers of every kind have
continued to be persecuted as such.

An old author has said that " a miracle is legitimate witchcraft, and
witchcraft is an illegitimate miracle." To make it plainer it might be
said, that the turning of water into wine by Christ was a miracle, but if

any other man did the same thing, it would be witchcraft, and up to a

few years ago, he would have been persecuted as a wizard.
Is it not strange that astrologers who have been observers and students

of the laws of nature for thousands of years, and are, as a rule, not
believers in witchcraft or miracles, or in fact anything supernatural or
contrary to the laws of nature, should have been called witches and per-
secuted as such by the persons who are the only advocates of, and
believers in witchcraft and miracles ?

We have a similar paradox or circumstance in the practice of Medicine.
Paracelsus, who lived in the early part of the fifteenth century, commenced
his career by publicly burning the works of Galen, (who was an astrologer,

and taught the use of herbs, roots and barks in medicine,) saying that

"Galen did not know as much as his shoe latchets." Paracelsus was
the first of the school of mineral medicines, who commenced to treat

every disease with that class of drugs; and as mercury was mainly
employed by them, the German name of which was Quacksalver, they
were called Quacks, and those who used herbs and roots were the regular

physicians. Now fashion has changed so much that the herb doctors
are called Quacks, and the others who use the Quacksalver, the regular

physicians.

If the Christian religion were the most perfect religion on the face of
the earth, then we might wink at some of its miracles and superstitions,

and at its ignoring the laws of nature, but if we can be guided by past

history, the opposite is much nearer the truth. Except within the last

hundred years, whenever and wherever the Christians have gained a foot-

hold in any civilized or partly civilized nation, they have always reduced
that nation to barbarism, and it has reverted to the condition of the dark
ages, and often to slavery of the most degrading nature. It is only since

the human mind has thrown off some of the superstition of 'the Christian



:

APPENDIX. 417

religion, and discarded miracles and relics, and returned to the investigation
of the laws of nature, and at the same time been guided by knowledge
and science which sweep away all superstition and witchcraft, (all of
which by the scientific mind, are now classed with the hobgoblins of the
past,) that there has been any real improvement in the condition of man
in Christian nations. Even now if it were not for the influence of the
liberal minded inhabitants of those countries, some of those Christians
would be ready to cut one another's throats, and persecute each other
as of old, if they happened to differ in their beliefs. The Lord George
Gordon riots may be taken as an example ; and it is the same in every
place where Christians are away from liberal minded people.
Many writers in referring to the Christians and their religion, away

from civilization, say that it forms a very poor comparison to any other
religion, even in the cradle of Christianity. Bayard Taylor in his '* Lands
of the Saracens," speaking of the Christians in Jerusalem, page 79, says

" Whatever good the various missions here may, in time, accomplish (at
present, it does not amount to much), Jerusalem is the last place in the world
where an intelligent heathen would be converted to Christianity. Were I

cast here, ignorant of any religion, and were I to compare the lives and
practices of the different sects as the means of making my choice—in short, to
judge of each faith by the conduct of its professors— I should at once turn
Mussulman. When you consider that in the Holy Sepulchre there are nine'
teen chapels, each belonging to a different sect, calling itself Christian, and
that a Turkish police is always stationed there to prevent the bloody quarrels
which often ensue between them, you may judge how those who call them-
selves followers of the Prince of Peace practice the pure faith he sought to
establish. Between the Greek and Latin churches, especially, there is a deadly
feud, and their contentions are a scandal, not only to the few Christians here,
but to the Moslems themselves. I believe there is a sort of truce at present,
owing to the settlement of some of the disputes—as for instance, the restora-
tion of the silver star, which the Greeks stole from the shrine of the Nativity,
at Bethlehem. The Latins, however, not long since, demolished, *vi et armis,
a chapel which the Greeks commenced building on Mount Zion. But, if

the employment of material weapons has been abandoned for the time, there
is none the less a war of words and sounds still going on. Go into the Holy
Sepulchre, when mass is being celebrated, and you can scarcely endure the
din. No sooner does the Greek choir begin its shrill chant, than the Latins
fly to the assault. They have an organ, and terribly does that organ strain its

bellows and labor its pipes to drown the rival singing. You think the Latins
will carry the day, when suddenly the cymbals of the Abyssinians strike in

with harsh brazen clang, and for the moment, triumph. Then there are
Copts, and Maronites, and Armenians, and I know not how many other sects,

who must have their share ; and the service that should be a many-toned
harmony, pervaded by one grand spirit of devotion, becomes a discordant orgie,

befitting the rites of Belial.
A long time ago—1 do not know the precise number of years—the Sultan

granted a firman, in answer to the application of both Jews and Christians,
allowing the members of each sect to put to death any person belonging to

the other sect, who should be found inside of their churches or synagogues.
The firman has never been recalled, though in every place but Jerusalem it

remains a dead letter. Here, although the Jews freely permit Christians to
enter their synagogue, a Jew who should enter the Holy Sepulchre would be
lucky if he escaped with his life. Not long since, an English gentleman, who



: ;

4 J 8 APPENDIX.

was taken by the monks for a Jew, was so severely beaten that he was confined
to his bed for two months. What worse than scandal, what abomination, that
the spot looked upon by so many Christians as the most awfully sacred on
earth, should be the scene of such brutish intolerance I"

I give the above as a specimen of Christianity in its simplicity and
purity, when removed from liberal minds and infidel influence. As for

the Mohammedans, they are believers in astrology, consequently they are

all "lying knaves" and "unscrupulous rascals," and cannot be compared
to their neighbors, the Christians in Jerusalem.
A missionary who was trying to convert a Mohammedan to the Christian

faith, was asked by the mussulman what Christianity taught. The Christian
said :—" It teaches the doctrine of a future life, and peace and good will

on earth." The mussulman answered that his religion taught of a future

life also, and as for the peace and good will, if it were not for the
Mohammedans the Christians would murder each other over the sepulchre
of the founder of their religion.

Third.— The changefrom the Ptolemaic to the Copernican System of
Astronomy —Claudius Ptolemy lived about one hundred and fifty years
previous to the time of Christ. He was an astronomer, astrologer, and
knew all of the geography of his day. The system of astronomy which
was known by his name was in vogue for thousands of years previous to

his time. He was a compiler, collecting and embodying in his works all the
knowledge of these sciences that then existed; and Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos
contains all the rules of astrology that had been laid down during the

centuries before his time, and is to-day to the astrologer what the Bible is

to the Christian. Up to a very late day his astronomical and astrological

books were bound in one volume, as there was very little use for astronomy
except in the practice of astrology.

When the change from the Ptolemaic to the Copernican system of
astronomy occurred, many believed that Ptolemy's system of astrology was
swept away also, but this was wrong and only the result of a want of
knowledge. All the calculations that were made under the Copernican
system were the same as those made under the old system, such as the
calculation of eclipses, the revolutions of the heavenly bodies, etc., the

difference being that there was more accuracy in the modern method
but by whatever method calculations are made in astronomy the result is

the same in astrology, and the astrologer of the present day makes his

calculations similar in every respect to those that were made when they
wrote the "hieroglyphics of Egypt, the cuneiform inscriptions of Assyria,

and the most ancient records of Persia, India and China."
I have at the present time Tate's Astronomy and Hackett's Astrology,

both bound in one volume, and even if the Copernican and Newtonian
systems were overthrown and replaced by some other system of astronomy,
Hackett's Astrology with all its calculations, would remain true, no matter
by what system they were computed. The angles of geometry and
mensuration are true to nature whether they be calculated by simple
arithmetic or the higher mathematics. Therefore the reader will see the
foolishness and illogical conclusions of Mr. Proctor when he says.—"The
very fact that the old astrologers were for the most part honest, though



APPENDIX. 4 1 9

mistaken, proves that the astrologer of to-day must necessarily be a rogue
and a charlatan," and yet he does not in his article bring a single fact to

prove that the old astrologers were mistaken.*
As there appears to be a difference of opinion, either real or imaginary,

on the subject of astrology, between Mr. Proctor and myself; and as the
newspapers will publish only his side of the question ; and as I have the

utmost confidence in the principles which all astrologers claim as the truths

of that science, I believe this question can only be settled so far as Mr.
Proctor is concerned, on the public rostrum, with an intelligent and critical

audience for judges. Although the chances are that those judges will be
biased against astrology, because of previous education, yet it seems to

me the most fitting place for investigating truth or exposing error. I

therefore request Mr. Proctor, in the most kind and friendly—manner, to

meet me in public discussion on the following question: "Are the
principles of astrology true, and can they be borne out by, and in accord-
ance with, the laws of nature and reason."

Mr. Proctor is a public lecturer and has been in practice as such for

years, and nearly all the audience will be more in sympathy with his

side of the question. Yet, while I possess none of his advantages and am
not a fluent speaker, I will allow him his choice to either lead or follow

me in the discussion, and he may choose the length of time to be
occupied, provide that each shall have the same length of time. He shall

also elect whether the discussion shall occupy one evening or more. I

will bear half the expense of hall rent and advertising.

The conditions I shall insist upon in these discussions, are :—There
shall be at least four nativities read off before the audience, two by Mr.
Proctor and two by myself. In those that are to be read by me the exact
time of birth shall be vouched for, or sworn to, and selected by a com-
mittee ; one half of this committee to be named by Mr. Proctor, and
one half by myself. Mr. Proctor must, from the date of birth of the two
nativities which fall to his lot, give descriptions of the persons physically
and mentally; give all the good and evil periods of life, marriage and
children, and the outlines of their lives or natural tendencies.

If it be true, as Mr. Proctor says, that " the astrologers of to-day make
a lying pretence of believing in planetary influences," then he can sketch
off the outlines of a person's life as well from a piece of blank paper as

I or any other astrologer can from a chart of the heavens erected for the
moment of birth.

Mr. Proctor may say that it is all nonsense and a waste of time to

have a discussion on astrology, as it has already been exploded. The

* I have not produced any facts to prove the truth of astrology in this article, because Mr. Proctor
has not given any facts to prove the falsity of that science ; the proofs I have to offer will be found
in the pamphlet which will follow. All that Mr. Proctor appears to have done is to show the
universality of astrology and the general belief in it in all civilized nations up to a recent date ;

probably he has brought as strong arguments in that direction for the truth of astrology as I could
have done. Where he gets his logic from, in trying to prove a science or any subject false at the
present day, which was true at its commencement and continued so for thousands of years ; or that
it could be reasonable then and not now, is hard to understand. If the astrologers of to-day are
ignorant and dishonest, why were they not so thousands of years ago? And yet Mr. Proctor vouches
for " the astrologers of old times " being "honest men," and "by no means wanting in reasoning
power." Let us hope that if Mr. Proctor should in future publish another article on the " Humbug
of Astrology," he will first learn something of its principles, and remember that none should con-
demn who do not understand.



420 APPENDIX.

same remark might just as truly be made of mesmerism, phrenology,
homoeopathy, and hundreds of other subjects that live after they are said

to have been exploded. The great misfortune is, that all of these sciences
have been exploded by persons who are as little posted on them as Mr.
Proctor is on astrology.

Every science is gradually built up from facts which are gathered from
observation and experiment, sometimes extending over hundreds of years;
these facts are afterwards generalized and classified according to certain

rules, principles or laws, and when these rules, principles, and laws
harmonize and are verified by other experiments and observations, then
it is called a science. Every science must stand on its own merits; one
science cannot be proved or disproved by another ; it is impossible to
prove or disprove, English grammar by the rules of arithmetic, and no
man can prove or disprove astrology by astronomy, no matter how learned
he may be in the latter science ; nor can he prove or disprove phrenology
by anatomy, or homoeopathy by allopathy. Very often one science will

throw light upon another; for instance geology may throw some light

upon astronomy, but it is impossible to prove or disprove astronomy by
geology, although they both have a relation to the planets, geology treat-

ing specially of our planet, and astronomy of all the planets and stars.

If I have made any proposition which Mr. Proctor cannot accept, then
I trust he will signify fo me either privately or in the public prints on
what terms he is willing to meet me for the purpose of having a fair and
searching examination of principles which I regard as truths in astrology.

I will concede anything he may ask, except the public tests of nativities,

as these I consider the most important proofs which can be brought for

or against astrology.

After Mr. Proctor has made use of cuch expressions in the public prints

in referring to myself and all other astrologers, there is one of two things

he must do: he must either meet me or some other astrologer in public

discussion on astrology, including the public tests I have before referred

to, or he must make apology in an equally public manner over his own
name. It will not do for him to say that I am beneath his notice, as the

reader can see from what I have related in these Introductory Remarks
that my standing as a physician and a gentleman is equal to Mr. Proctor's.

Possibly it will be best to insert in this reply to Mr. Proctor one or

two anecdotes which illustrate the errors he has fallen into in attacking

astrologers and astrology.

Dr. Caldwell, a professor and prominent physician of Philadelphia,

gives an account in his autobiography of an incident which occurred while

he was traveling in England. In journeying by stage from Liverpool to

Birmingham, while on the outskirts of Liverpool, he noticed a large

mansion with beautiful grounds, which were decorated in various places

with fine statuary. This statuary attracted his attention to a degree which
led him to enquire whom the place belonged to ; a fellow passenger told

him that it had been the residence of the late Dr. Salmon. Dr. Caldwell
knew Dr. Salmon as the proprietor of a medicine, called the Balm of

Gilead. Caldwell commenced a tirade against Salmon, using epithets

similar to "fraud," "impostor," "prince of quacks," etc., but no reply



APPENDIX. 42 1

was made by his fellow passengers. He noticed that they all looked
towards a lady dressed in deep mourning, who was in the coach. When
the coach neared Birmingham, all the passengers had left it except the

Lady in mourning and himself, and, American like, he tried to introduce
himself, enquired if she had far to go when they reached Birmingham,
and concluded by asking her name. She said, "I am Mrs. Salmon, and I

live in the house just outside of Liverpool." Dr. Caldwell was taken
by surprise and began apologizing, but she stopped him by saying, " You
need not apologize; if you had known my husband as his friends and I

knew him, you would have spoken differently, and would have held a

different opinion of him from that you expressed when passing my
house." Dr. Caldwell afterwards became well acquainted with Mrs.
Salmon, and he says that it was a lesson to him never to condemn any
one without previous knowledge of his character.

If Mr. Proctor had become acquainted with a number of astrologers,

possibly he would hold a different opinion of them to what he expressed
in the " World." For instance, Mr. John Ledbetter, who died in Brooklyn
a short time ago, spent forty-five years in the study and investigation of
astrology, and has left several volumes in manuscript as the fruits of his

labor. He invented a planisphere to facilitate his calculations in the
science, yet he never made a dollar from the practice of astrology. His
former employers, who are wholesale jewelers in this city, speak of him in

the highest terms as an honorable man and a man of learning. I could
give a number of names of men living who are students of astrology, and
who have devoted years to its investigation, but on account of the
prejudice against that science they would not wish their names to come
before the public.

A number of years since a physician entered the office of Dr. Cox of
Philadelphia, and picking up a work on the Homoeopathic practice of
medicine, which lay on the desk, looked at it a moment and threw it

down, with the contemptuous exclamation:—"Humbug! humbug!" Dr.
Cox looked at him in surprise, and asked:—"Do you know anything of
Homoeopathy?" The visitor replied, "No! but it is all humbug and
nonsense!" Dr. Cox said, " Well I do not know anything of Homoeo-
pathy myself; but who must I believe; you, who admit that you do not
know anything of the subject, or my son, who has graduated from a
Homoeopathic College and is using Homoeopathic medicines every day in

his practice? And he tells me it is not all humbug."
In seeking knowledge or information of any science or profession, is it

not best to be guided and advised by those who are the most informed,
and have had the longest experience in that science or profession, rather
than to take the opinion of one who simply reasons on general principles

and who has had no practical experience. It was such men as Richard
A, Proctor, and their reasoning without knowledge, which caused all the
sufferings and hardships of Galileo, Columbus, and I might say of all the
reformers, discoverers, heretics, and witches who have been persecuted
for the last thousand years.

I once heard Mr. Proctor say in one of his lectures on Astronomy, in

New York City, while speaking of the perihelion of the superior planets,



422 APPENDIX.

that even if the Science of Astronomy could be usea in making predic-

tions of earthquakes and of the periods of epidemics, it would depreciate

in the estimation of scientific minds, and everything which had a tendency
to develop astronomy in that direction ought to be discouraged. I beg
to differ with him on this point; I do not think it can lower the dignity

of any science to make it more useful and add to the happiness of man.
I think I have proved by the various rules and principles of Astrology

in a number of horoscopes in the foregoing pages, and have shown clearly

that if the science of astrology were put into every day use, as Mr. Proctor
says it was of old, fully fifty per cent of all the sickness, poverty, misery,

and hardships of the people of the present day would be done away with.

I also propose to show that thousands of people are murdered every
year, and some of them in a most barbarous manner by physicians, on
account of a want of knowledge of astrology.

I ask Mr. Proctor to come before an audience and prove, if he can,

the falsity of a science which for thousands of years was in every day
use, " not only among all the leading races of antiquity and in all the

chief civilized nations, but duri?ig periods of time which ?io other faith
can boast of having swayed. " If he can do this, and yet be uninformed
of the practical application of that science, I shall give him credit for

being a remarkably smart man.
As I have said before, I request Mr. Proctor to meet me in a public

hall to try and accomplish that most difficult task, or else make a suitable

apology. He might as well attempt to prove that all the astronomers
of the present day, in all civilized nations on the globe, are deceived
when making their calculations for the captains of vessels ; and those

captains are equally deceived when making use of those calculations

to find out the locations of their ships at sea ; or in other words, the

astronomers and mariners are gulling each other, or are combined together
to gull the people, and have been doing so for hundreds of years; as to say

astrologers have been "making a lying pretense of believing in planetary
influence," and have been doing so for ages.

Why should Mr. Proctor say that the astrologers who calculate the
movements of the heavenly bodies have been " making a lying pretense
of believing in planetary influence," and at the same time not say that

the captains of vessels have been making a lying pretense of calculating

the longitude and latitude of the ships at sea? Does not the astrologer

make his calculations as carefully as a mariner makes his ? Only those of
the astrologer are much more intricate, and even more difficult. And
yet captains of large ocean steamers are held in the highest respect, and
are deemed men of great responsibility, while astrologers are "lying
knaves" and "unscrupulous rascals."

"Strange such a difference there should be
'Twixt tweedledum and tweedledee."

Instead of Mr. Proctor calling all astrologers vile names, it would have
been more logical and convincing to the readers of the "New York
World," if he had taken the time of birth of some well-known person,
such as General Washington or General Grant, and shown that the rules



APPENDIX. 423

and principles of astrology were not borne out in those nativities. He
must know that one clear case of that kind would do more to sink astrology

into oblivion than all the Billingsgate language he could hurl at its

votaries. Why has this not been done ? I leave the reader to draw his

own inference.

To make this matter plainer, I will go into a few particulars of the
science of astrology.

The path in the heavens in which the Sun and planets appear to

travel, when viewed from the earth, is called the ecliptic, or zodiac,

and it is divided into twelve parts, each of which is called a sign of the

zodiac. These signs are classed or grouped together according to the
influences they possess, and are known as tall, short, stout, slender, dark and
light signs, etc. When a child is born, if a tall sign be rising and the

moon and the planet which has dominion over the sign rising be both in

tall signs, that child when it has reached adult life will be tall, no matter how
short the parents were. The same rule applies, if the signs which have
control are short, dark or light, stout or slender, no matter how the
parents are formed. Persons are invariably formed as the planets indicate,

even when the planetary influence has to overcome hereditary or parental
tendencies.

General Washington was born under the planet Venus, which was
situated in the sign Aries, a tall, slender, light sign ; but having Taurus,
(a stout sign) on the ascendant, he became rather full made after middle
age. General Grant was born under the planet Venus, but Venus was
in the sign Pisces, which is a rather short and stout sign, and having
Taurus, (a short sign) on the ascendant, it was an impossibility for him
to be tall and slender like General Washington, even if General Grant's
parents had both been tall and slender.

Nothing but the science of astrology can account for the great difference

in children of the same family, some tall and light complexioned, others
short and dark ; and though the believers in heredity think that in such
cases one child will take after the father, another after the grandmother,
or even further back, it can be demonstrated that those children owe
their appearance and tendencies to planetary influence.

While a student of astrology, many times have I said to parents whose
child's nativity I was calculating: "Why! you have made a mistake in

the time ; this would indicate a light complexioned child, while you are
both dark;" But the answer would always be: "Yes, the child is light

complexioned and has light hair." Believers in heredity would say that

the child took after its great-great-grand-parents, or some of its fore-fathers

who lived before the flood.

I defy Mr. Proctor to bring a single instance to contradict these laws
and principles in astrology. He might just as well try to prove that twice
two are five.

I shall bring one more illustration and with it close this reply to Mr.
Proctor.

In all nativities the seventh house or Western Horizon is called the
house of marriage, and as there are good or evil planets placed therein, so
will marriage be more or less fortunate or unfortunate. In the horoscope



424 APPENDIX.

of a female, the planet to which the sun first applies by aspect will

describe the husband, and if the aspect be a benign one, and to a fortunate
planet, it will indicate an excellent man, and happiness in marriage life;

if it be a malign aspect and to an evil planet, and evil planets be in the
seventh house, it will be impossible for husband and wife to live together
in a happy manner. We have a remarkable proof of Astrology in Queen
Victoria's nativity, wherein the sun first applied by good or trine aspect
to Jupiter, which was in Aquarius, Prince Albert being exactly described
by Jupiter in Aquarius, and the happiness of their married life is too
well known to need comment,

in the horoscope of a male the rule applies the same, except that the first

aspect of the moon to a planet is taken instead of the sun's first aspect.

Lord Byron's nativity is a remarkable example of the influences- of the

planets, in causing unhappiness in his married life. The moon in his

nativity first made an opposition of Mercury in Capricorn, an evil aspect,

and an evil planet. His married life is well known.
1 defy Mr. Proctor to produce one instance or nativity, where the rules

and principles in astrology which I have mentioned are not apparent in

every day life. If he says he can do so he simply proves himself to be
a "lying knave" and an "unscrupulous rascal" and " makes a lying
pretense of" not " believing in planetary influence"

Since Richard A. Proctor published the " Humbug of Astrology," in

which he called all Astrologers, " silly charlatans, lying knaves, rogues,

and unscrupulous rascals," in the New York World on Feb. 6th, 1887,
there has been a considerable change in the opinion of some of the

editors, and the people connected with that paper ; some of them have
not only become converts to the science of Astrology, but have even
investigated and studied it to a great extent.

Mr. T. E Wilson, the librarian of the New York World, on Feb.

2d, 1894, when Mr. A. N. Doerschuk, of Kansas City, wrote to him to

find who was the best astrologer in the United States, directed the letter

to O. D. Bragdon, an astrologer in Boston, Mass., regarding him as the

best; but Mr. Bragdon forwarded the letter to me. I have since learned

from a pupil of mine that Mr. Wilson has given considerable attention

to Astrology and regards it as a true science.

Mr. Jonas Whitley, one of the present editors of the New York
World, has also read much on the science of Astrology, and when he
graduated at the College of New York the thesis which he handed to

the officers of that institution was entirely on the science of Astrology.

Besides the New York World of late has given considerable space to

articles on Astrology, and to publishing horoscopes. See page 50.

From " The New York Morning Advertiser " of October 4, 1893.

AT PROCTOR'S TOMB.
Impressive Ceremonies Mark the Re-interment of the Astronomer's

Body in Greenwood.
The memorial in Greenwood Cemetery, which has been provided

mainly through the efforts of George W. Childs, of Philadelphia, is



" "

APPENDIX. 425

of Quincy granite, a great bluish block, which is beautifully polished.

It is eight feet high and five feet wide. One inscription tells that
" Richard A. Proctor, Astronomer, was born in Chelsea, England, on
March 23, 1837, and died in New York City, on Sept. 12, 1888, aged 51
years." On a polished face on the reverse side of the vase, in script,

is the epitaph especially written for it by Herbert Spencer. It reads :

"On public as on private grounds, Professor Proctor's premature death was
much to be lamented. He united great detailed knowledge with broad
general views in an unusual degree, and while admirably fitted for a

popular expositor, was at the same time well equipped for original inves-

tigation, which, had he lived, would have added to our astronomical
knowledge. Professor Proctor was also to be admired for his endeavors
to keep the pursuit of science free from the corrupting and paralyzing
influence of State aid."

Mr. Herbert Spencer ought to add that people differing in opinion
from Richard A. Proctor on a scientific subject he called " charlatans,

unscrupulous rascals, and lying knaves.

The public may say I am going too far in following Mr. Proctor to
the grave, but I believe, as Lord Byron says, " Nothing is worse than
a lying tombstone."

In ancient Rome, when a noted general returned, after making great

conquests abroad, and paraded through the streets, the populace clapping
and shouting his praises, there was always a person appointed to ride be-
fore him to tell of the hero's faults and shortcomings ; and I think it

would be a good thing to have a corner on a tombstone to describe the
faults and shortcomings of those who have departed this life.

Had any Astrologer ever attacked Mr. Proctor, in any shape or form,
there might have been some explanation, but not an excuse, for his false-

hoods against the professors of that science. When I think how many
Astrologers have had to suffer years of imprisonment, insults, and disgrace

on account of men like Mr. Proctor telling such untruths about them,
and men who stood far higher in honesty and principles, and even in

scientific ability, than Mr. Proctor, no wonder that I feel justified in

using strong language against such scientific " witch finders."

Some years ago I attended a course of lectures on Astronomy by
Prof. Proctor, given in Chickering Hall, New York. He said: "Even
if epidemics could be foretold by means of Astronomy it would degrade
the science by making use of it for any such purpose.

e

Why did he not go further, and say it would degrade Astronomy to
make use of it for the purpose of navigation, or for the guidance of
travelers in their journeys over the deserts of Africa, or the prairies of
America ? It never degrades any science or any person to become
useful.

Had not Astronomy become so perfected as to be used for such pur-
poses, the Astronomers of the present day would be persecuted far more
than the Astrologers. Formerly the Astronomers made their calcula-
tions only for Astrologers, to enable them to make predictions. They
were the hewers of wood and drawers of water for the Astrologers,



426 APPENDIX.

TO THE READER.
Part of the ensuing pages have been Inserted in preceding parts of this

book, under the heading, " History of Astrology by its Enemies," but I

think it advisable to reprint the following arguments in favor of Astrology
for two reasons: first, that the theme would not be complete without them,
and second, that the reader can appreciate and understand the arguments
much better than when reading the " Brief History of Astrology, by Its

Friends and by Its Enemies." If he has also studied the science he can
enjoy the ridiculous statements that the Rev. Thomas Dick, William and
Robert Chambers, and Richard A. Proctor have made use of in vilifying

Astrology and Astrologers.
It certainly must appear very strange to the student that men of learning-

such as they, should expose themselves to ridicule and contempt. Theie
might be some excuse if they were missionaries talking to the natives of the
islands of the Pacific Ocean, or in New Zealand, Australia, or to the people
living in the wilds of Africa. Then they could use such expressions and
arguments without any fear of contradiction ; but in a land of freedom and
liberty, where a majority of the people can read and write, and study
Astrology for themselves, and where thousands of text-books are printed
and published on that science, these writers must appear contemptible and
absurd in the extreme.

It is remarkable that the publishers of the leading encyclopoedias should
continue to treat the science of Astrology with such disfavor, when
Astrology is so well known and understood, and when there are men, both
willing and able, to write articles on the science for these publications, who
can treat it in an intelligent manner, so as to be interesting to the general
reader. Certainly if an Astrologer reads the statements and arguments
printed under the head "Astrology," at the same time knowing them to be
entirely false, they reduce the value of other parts of the encyclopoedia in

his estimation.
If the writers of each article had produced a single argument that

Astrology was false or not worthy of serious attention, it would be a differ-

ent matter. For instance, if they were to bring forward the horoscope of
Gen. Washington, and prove from the time of his birth and the position of
the planets that he ought to have been a short, stout person, dark com-
plexioned, with dark hair, and also that the planets indicated that he would
be a person of shallow brain and remain in obscurity} or could they prove
from the time of birth of Gen. Grant, that he should have been a tall,

slender, light complexioned person, and that as a business man he would be
remarkably fortunate, but as a soldier a mere numbskull, then they might
have some excuse for such articles on that science in the encyclopoedias.
But every one who has a slight knowledge of the science knows it is impos-
sible for such writers to bring proof or facts of that description against
Astrology.

The articles in the encyclopoedias above referred to evince a strong pre-
judice against Astrology, especially when it is well known that the science
can be taught the same as the science of arithmetic, or any other science.
This prejudice and bias against Astrology from reading such books becomes
more marked in such cases as that of Mr. Robert Bonner's " New York
Ledger," whose editor in replying to a question sent to that paper by Kate
Kellwood, said : "Fortune-telling by cards, by casting nativities, or by any
other method is utterly false, and an insult to the Majesty of HeavenT*

* There are two classes of writers and lecturers in the community. One follows the method
which I have adopted in the " Elements of Astrology," by trying to teach and explain the science or



APPENDIX. 427

Is it not strange that two-thirds of the inhabitants of the world at the
present time are insulting the Majesty of Heaven almost every day of their

lives, and have been doing so for thousands of years, if we can believe the
people who have lived in China, Japan, Turkey and the East Indies, and al-

most all other countries except in Europe and America ? Even in Europe and
America people who insult the Majesty of Heaven are constantly increasing
in number of late years. The Majesty of Heaven may possibly think that

remaining in ignorance is more insulting to its dignity than studying the
laws of the universe and of natural philosophy, especially when the said
Majesty has endowed man with an intelligent mind, capable of cultivation,

and has placed him in a world governed by laws and whose advancement in

happiness consists in learning and understanding these laws, and decreed
that the more ignorant he is of them the more sorrow and affliction he has
to suffer and endure.

The late Mr. Wells, former editor of the " Phrenological Journal " pub-
lished by " Fowler & Wells," goes one better than Mr. Robert Bonner's
journal in his answer to a correspondent, who wrote asking the editor about
the science of Astrology and the influence of the signs of the Zodiac. Mr.
Wells, in answering the inquirer, wound up his article by stating that " no one
practised Astrology except designing villains." I took the " Phrenological
Journal" in my hand and went to see Mr. Wells in his office, thinking that
perhaps the statement was a misprint or a mistake, but the editor certainly
proved himself very ungentlemanly, if not a " designing <villain" in replying
to my question. Mr. Wells afterwards, in answering another question on
Astrology, sent by a correspondent to the "Journal," concluded his article

by stating that " no one consulted Astrologers except thieves and pros-
titutes."f

How Mr. Wells found out what kind of people consulted Astrologers it

is difficult to understand perhaps he took it for granted that the same class
;

that consulted Phrenologists also consulted Astrologers, and knew them to

be such by his dealings subsequently with them in their different lines of

subject so the people can understand and judge for themselves whether it is true or false. The
other class of teachers are those who try to keep people in ignorance and will not permit them to
investigate for themselves, if they can prevent it.

These persous generally are of shallow brain and have but little understanding, and actually
believe that if they do not know anything on any special subject that nobody else does, and it is

not worth learning. They are like the fox with the sour grapes, or like the fox that had lost its

tail, and endeavored to persuade all the other foxes to have theirs cut off.

Sometimes these people get their eyes open, and then they become enthusiastic over sciences
or subjects which they did everything possible to crush Prof. Chaney was one of those persons,
but after he was convinced of the truth of Astrology, he has devoted the remainder of his life to
teaching and promulgating the science. Robert G. Ingersoll was one of those teachers, who re-
garded Astrology as being reduced to the level of the Christian religion, yet he has of late changed
his mind, and no doubt we will soon hear him giving lectures on Astrology.

No one could have been more opposed to it or tried harder to ridicule Astrology in some of his
lectures than Mr. Ingersoll, and yet we find in an articie by Prof. McDonald in the March number
of the "20th Century Astrologer" of 189S, reports Mr. Ingersoll as saying —: " I have never given
much attention to the study of Astrology, but personally I have received great benefits from my
horoscope. I can say little of it as a science, yet in many ways I have been 'influenced by it. I
am glad to acknowledge myself a debtor to what, if the world was not so busy, I should be glad to
study more carefully.''

How much more it would have been to the credit of Robert G. Ingersoll had he studied
Astrology more carefully before lie began ridiculing it so outrageously in some of his public
lectures, especially in the lecture wnich he gave on John Kepler, who discovered the firsf/three laws
of astronomy. There are thousends of other learned and scientific men like Robert G. Ingersoll,
who would have a different opinion of Astrology, if they would only study it more carefully.

t I have been creditably informed that Fowler & Wells now keep a number of astrological works
for sale in their phrenological rooms. Either these phrenologists have changed their opinion in
regard to astrologers and those who consult them, or else they have placed themselves in a very
unfavorable light by encouraging people to become "designing villains," and trying to lower the
standard of honesty and morality in the community.



428 ELEMENTS OF ASTROLOeY.

business or occupations; but even if such was the case, he could not know
that no other kind of persons consulted Astrologers.

If the statement of Mr. Wells is correct, the standard of morality, virtue
and honesty of nearly three-fourths of the present inhabitants of the globe
must be at a very low ebb, or else people who have lived in different parts
of the East must tell a great many falsehoods when speaking of the manners,
customs, beliefs and religions of its inhabitants. The Sultan of Turkey
has his Astrologers in constant attendance, and besides nearly all the
inhabitants are firm believers in the science yet if anything is stolen in

;

Turkey, the first remark the people make is, "There has been a Christian
around here," In the East Indies and many other parts, the people who
have resided there speak with emphasis of the honesty and virtue of both
the men and women, as contrasted with the virtue of the inhabitants in most
of the Christian countries. From China and Japan we have the same re-

ports, but when the missionaries go to these countries and teach the Christian
doctrines, then dishonesty and licentiousness spring up, because the people
are taught by the missionaries that no matter how many sins they commit,
if they repent they are foregiven and go to heaven.

In the East Indies and China, the people consult the Astrologer on every
kind of business. They not only compare the horoscopes of young men
and women previous to marriage, but even will not take a boarder into the
house without first consulting an Astrologer; and yet honesty and virtue
appear to stand on a much higher plane than honesty and virtue in any
Christian country, whose people are unbelievers in Astrology, and are
taught from childhood that Astrologers are " designing villains," and that
Astrology "is utterly false and an insult to the Majesty of Heaven."

The people in these Eastern countries, before the Christian missionaries
go there, are taught that whatever sins or crimes they commit, they have to
pay the penalty for, either in this life or in some future life. How much more
sensible would it have been for Mr. Wells or Mr. Robert Bonner to have
told their correspondents to investigate Astrology for themselves, and be
guided by such investigation, and if true and not contrary to the laws of
morality, patronize it and defend it, but if false and degrading to human
nature, discard it.

When these Christian people attempt to investigate Astrology, either
in this country or in Europe, they try every way possible, by manufacturing
all kinds of lies that they can possibly invent, to misrepresent it, and think
they are serving God by so doing. As an illustration I refer the reader to
page 439 of this book, where the "Penny Magazine," of London, pretends
to refute the science of Astrology. The remarks which the writer makes
use of when pretending to read the horoscope of a person born in London,
June 13th, 1842, at 12 noon, is one tissue of lies from beginning to end, as
any person who has studied Astrology, or even has read this book through
so far, can easily prove for himself. For instance, all text-books on
Astrology, when describing a person born under the planet Mercury in

Cancer, agree in the statement that he is small, ugly, ill-natured, and a de-
ceitful little wretch, and very often given to drink; and yet the writer of
the "Penny Magazine" makes the native of a most admirable fancy, and a
great elocutionist, ingenious and studious, all of which is entirely contrary
to the rules of the science, Also the books teach that Mars afflicts any part

"
of the nativity wherever it is situated, and it never " fortifies the midheaven
or any angle of the horoscope.

Astrology, if submitted to any fair and honest test will always come
off victorious. That is the reason why these Christian people continue to

tell lies about it, imagining it is opposed to their religion.



APPENDIX. 429

DISCUSSIONS IN FAVOR OF ASTROLOGY
AND

ASSERTIONS AGAINST IT.

FIRST—ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF ASTROLOGY.

In a world of perpetual change and bewildering uncertainty, which
so materially affects the destiny of every human being, what mind alive

to its own welfare can lull itself to sleep, and calmly commit its destiny to
the ocean of chance ? The drunkard, in a fit of intoxication ; the lunatic,

in the violence of disease ; the idiot, in his imbecility ; or the supersti-
tious devotee enveloped in the mist of fanaticism, may unconcernedly revel
on the brink of a precipice ; but the man of mind, alive to the necessary
connection between cause and effect, and their unavoidable influence upon
his own welfare, will, in the language of Scripture, "ponder the path
of his feet," or he will practically exclaim, "So teach us to number our
days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom."

Reader, what is meant by the word " ponder ? " What is meant by
the phrase "teach us to number our days?" Were they inserted in

the Bible as jests upon human frailty, or as sober and practical realities?

Is nature governed by laws ? A re those laws discoverable ? Is the
mind of man capable of applying them to advantage! Astrology says
Yes ! and it offers at the same time to demonstrate to every sincere and
competent inquirer the truth of its affirmation.

Those who have studied the science of Astrology, and ought, there-
fore, to be considered capable of judging, assert and maintain that it is

a science, that is, a system consisting ofprinciples and rules which may
be learned j and history shows us that it is no recent upstart, but that

it has been studied, practised,- and relied upon as a science from time
immemorial ; and although there are no records in existence, that I am
aware of, denoting where, when, and by whom Astrology was demon-
strated not to be a science, yet it is somewhat strange to find that in

an article published in the " New York World " on February 6th, 1887,
by Professor Proctor, which he designated " The Humbug of Astrology,"
he says "that the Astrologer of to-day has written himself • down a

charlatan, and is probably an unscrupulous rascal, and a lying knave."
It often happens in arguments, as in the fortunes of war, that when

an enemy has fired ofFall his ammunition, and has nothing left to defend
himself, instead of yielding gracefully and admitting that he is beaten, he
degrades himself by throwing "mud" and "dirt" as a last resort. Call-

ing names is the weakest of all arguments. But a sensible man will stick

to his principles and his science, and defend them with honest and legiti-

mate means.
The Astrologer, even while being called these hard names, may be

a person of learning, and have the capacity and industry to master
Geometry, Astronomy, Trigonometry, and the whole circle of sciences;

he may be perfectly honest and established in a reputable line of busi-

ness, be a good neighbor and an honorable citizen, and yet if he practice



: —;

43° APPENDIX.

Astrology, that is, if he honestly follows his profession, he is called the
vilest names by those who call themselves scientists, but who know
nothing of the principles and science of Astrology.

In reflecting upon the application necessary to be able to practice As-
trology, and the persecution it meets, no wonder that its ill-remunerated
adherents write such verses as these

" Why do I stretch the chain of space,
lb Or scan the stars' irradiancy,
While scientists their "wisdom" join
To dub *

these labors " *
vagrancy ?

*' Why seize the compasses and rule
In Euclid's musty books to dabble,

While others with one-tenth the toil,

But smile and fatten on the rabble?"

Among the opponents of Astrology, so far as my observation goes,

there is one remarkable fact, that not one of them so much as under-
stands the first principle upon which it is founded! They presume to

offer an opinion upon a subject with which they are entirely ignorant

a subject which they have never studied, nor applied so much as one
scientific test. They are generally so ignorant as to confound it with
Necromancy, Sorcery, Witchcraft, Interpretation of Dreams, Gypsy-
Fortune-telling, Clairvoyance, Soothsaying, and a host of other such
etceteras.

Frequently their opposition is so wide of the mark as to be merely a

disbelief in some undeiinable chimera of their own imagination, which
has no more to do with Astrology than a Chinaman has to do with en-

acting the laws that prohibit his immigration into this country. What
can be more absurd than such conduct. as this? What would a society

of chemists, or surgeons, or mathematicians think of an uneducated
peasant confronting his supercilious opinions with their analyzations,

classifications, and demonstrations? They would pity his ignorance,

sneer at his presumption, and treat his interference with contempt. The
opponents of Astrology, although favored by popular ignorance and
prejudice, are viewed by the experienced with the same disgust.

Astrologers may be persecuted for a time, as astronomers and all

other scientists have suffered in their time. After Galileo had been
compelled, at the peril of his life, to subscribe to the quiescence of the

world, he exclaimed, "Still it moves." The puny arm of man may
be raised against the heavens, but the influences of the Pleiades cannot
be bound, neither can Arcturus be stayed in his course.

Against Astrology we sometimes hear a little in the shape of argu-
ment, but nothing that ever affects its truth or validity as a science.

One argument adduced by some of its most enlightened opponents is,

that "Astrologers often err in their predictions," and to the truth of this

objection every Astrologer must bow. But, at the same time, we must
not allow a particular exception to usurp the place of a general rule

we must not allow a local detail to circumscribe a universal truth.

The partial failure of Astrologers necessarily presupposes partial success.

If Astrologers always failed in their predictions, the evidence against



APPENDIX. 43 1

Astrology would be strongly presumptive, though not absolutely conclu-
sive, inasmuch as the properties of matter do not result from man's
knowledge of them, but, on the contrary, these attributes of matter per-
vaded inherently prior to man's existence, and are only yet ascertained
to a very limited extent.

When attempts are made to parallel Astrology with many other
sciences, its magnitude and complexity appear so immensely overwhelming
that the wonder turns not upon the failures of its adherents, but rather
upon their frequent successes. If the shoemaker be sometimes deceived
in the quality of a handful of leather, why should we marvel at the
Astrologer's occasional misjudgments, when his materials are worlds, suns,

and systems? If the shoemaker sometimes misfits his customer, after

careful measurement of so small an object as the human foot, why be
surprised at the errors of the Astrologer, who has to gauge the heavens ?

However often the shoemaker may err, where is the man to denounce
the craft as useless, false, and not strictly based on scientific principles ?

Not only are the shoemaker and the Astrologer at times similarly erro-

neous in their practice, but such is the case with every art, every science,

and every professson on earth. If, therefore, the occasional errors of
Astrologers be admitted as conclusive against Astrology as a science, all

other sciences, so called, are equally open to the same objection—all

sciences are false. The chemist, the mathematician, the architect, the

painter, the divine, the lawyer, the newspaper editor, the photographer,
the legislator, the shoemaker, and the Astrologer may all shake hands
together and mutually exclaim, "We are brethren all."

Unless it can be demonstrated that Astrology is false, and not in

accordance with the laws of nature, its professors ought not to be called

"charlatans" and tl unscrupulous rascals and lying knaves" by persons
who are altogether ignorant of that science. It indicates an ignorance
and prejudice that will not be believed one hundred years to come. The
people in those days, when reading the history of the present time, will

look back to the persecutions of Astrologers, the Botanic and Homoeo-
pathic physicians, the Socialist and the Spiritualist, as we look back to the

persecution of the " Witches," " Heretics," and " itinerant Preachers,"
who lived two hundred years ago, and which the Poet Whittier describes

in his Poem entitled

THE PASTORAL LETTER.
Oh, glorious days, when church and state

Were wedded by your spiritual fathers,

And on submissive shoulders sat

Your Wilsons and your Cotton Mathers.
No vile "itinerant" then could mar
The beauty of your tranquil Zion,

But at his peril of the scar
Of hangman's whip and branding-iron.

Then wholesome laws relieved the church
Of heretic and mischief-maker,

And priest and bailifTjoined in search,
By turns, of Papist, witch and Quaker!



— !

43 2 APPENDIX.

The stocks were at each church's door,
The gallows stood on Boston Common,

A Papist's ears the pillory bore,
The gallows-rope, a Quaker woman

Your fathers dealt not as ye deal
With "non-professing" frantic teachers;

They bored the tongue with red-hot steel,

And flayed the back of " female preachers.
Old Newbury had her fields a tongue,
And Salem's streets could tell their story

Of fainting woman dragged along,
Gashed by the whip, accursed and gory.

And will ye ask me, why this taunt
Of memories sacred from the scorner?

And why with reckless hand I plant
A nettle on the graves ye honor?

Not to reproach New England's dead
This record from the past I summon,

Of manhood to the scaffold led,

And suffering and heroic woman.

SECOND—THE ASSERTIONS OF THOSE WHO OPPOSE ASTROLOGY.

These include all those who write for Encyclopaedias, editors of
newspapers, especially of religious periodicals and scientific books, except
text books on Astrology.

Why publishers should continue to engage men to write on the sub-

ject of Astrology in the above named books, whose only qualification

is their ignorance of that science, is impossible to understand, especially

when there are so many Astrological almanacs and monthly Astrological

periodicals, as well as a number of Astrological text books, the authors

of which are well qualified to write for any of the various "Encyclo-
paedias."

Surely if the publishers of the above named works desired to impart
the truth to their readers on this science, there are a number who under-
stand Asrology whose services could be procured.

Any one understanding Astrology, and reading the articles printed
under the words "Astrology," " Horoscope, " etc., in the Encyclopae-
dias now published, would naturally arrive at the conclusion that the
writers had gone through a civil service examination in the science of
Astrology, and those who could answer the fewest questions had been
selected, or those who were most prejudiced against the science had been
chosen to write the articles.

Chambers, in their "Information for the People," commence their
article on Phrenology with these words "

: It has of late been customarv
for the conductors of popular cyclopcedias to admit articles on Phre-
nology ; but in most if not all the instances in which this has been done,
the articles were the composition of persons who denied that phrenology
was a true system of mental philosophy, and whose aim rather was to



APPENDIX. 433
show its want of sound foundation than simply to present a view of its

doctrines. In every one of these instances it was afterwards successfully

shown by phrenological writers that their science had been misrepre-
sented, and its doctrines challenged on unfair grounds, so that the

articles in question might as well not have been written, in so far as the
instruction of candid inquirers was concerned. We have resolved to

eschew this practical absurdity, by presenting a view of Phrenology by
one who believes it to be the true system of mind."

Yet these publishers, in their work called " Chambers' Encyclopce-
dia," have followed the same erroneous plan in their article on Astrology
which they condemned in others as being wrong in treating the subject

of Phrenology. They have employed a person who was altogether

ignorant of Astrology, and at the same time prejudiced against it. This
writer, under the title "Astrology, " goes on to make the following false

statements :

" Belief in Astrology is not extensively professed in any Christian

country, though a few solitary advocates have from time to time ap-
peared. But it still holds sway in the East, and among the Mohamme-
dans wherever situated. Even in Europe, the craving of the ignorant
of all countries for divination is still gratified by the publication of

multitudes of almanacs containing Astrological predictions, though the

writers no longer believe in them."*

* It might have been just as well for the morals of the community if Messrs. Chambers had not
mentioned the last named fact, when they say "that the authors no longer believe in them." In
this sentence they refer to the Astrological Almanac published by John Partridge, in London,
England, which, while he was living, had a very large circulation. After his death, by some
means that I do not recollect, the Baptist Missionary Society of London, procured the Almanac
and continued its publication. It sold at that time for what was considered a high price, viz.,

2s. 3d. (54 cents) per copy. The society sent Bibles and missionaries to the benighted heathen
with the profits of this Astrological Almanac. This equals the statement of Fred Douglas in the
narrative of his life where he says "that during the time of slavery in the South, the slaveholders
sold men to build churches, they sold women to send missionaries abroad, and babies to send
Bibles to the savages in Africa." But only think of it, those pious people went into the business
offortune-telling, which they did not believe in, in order to save souls. It is almost incredible.

The Missionary Society bought the right of publishing the Astrological Almanac either from the
widow or the executors of John Partridge about the year 1830, and they discontinued publishing it

only when it did not pay.
Raphael, and also Zadkiel, both of London, seeing an opening for an Astrological Almanac,

each started one nearly at the same time, and both almanacs, being well written by persons who
understood and believed in Astrology, soon took the place of John Partridge's.

These two almanacs are still published, and they have a circulation at the present time of near
half a million. There has never been an Astrological Almanac published except by those pious
religious people referred to by William and Robert Chambers, that the authors were not firm
believers in Astrology.

If it were discovered that one minister of the Gospel in the whole world had been preaching a
religion that he did not believe, it would be too sweeping an assertion to say that all ministers were
frauds, and that all religions were false. These pious people were not Astrologers, did not know
anything about it, and did not believe in it- They only published the almanac to raise money 10

convert the heathen and send Bib^s and missionaries to them, and I do not see why Astrolo-
gers and Astrology, should be blamed for what they did. It is misrepresenting' Astrology and
challenging its doctrines on unfair grounds.

I have a number of John Partridge's almanacs that were published after it fell into the pious
people's hands, and I intend at some future time to publish some of the predictions and remarks
they contain. There is material enough in them to make a first-class comic opera, and I have
no doubt it would take wonderfully.

Had either William or Robert Chambers known anything about Astrology they would have
seen that those zealots did not know the first A, B, C of the science, therefore could not believe



434 APPENDIX.

How Messrs. Chambers found out that the writers of Astrological
books and almanacs " no longer believe in them " they do not inform
us. But what should we think of any writer or publisher making use
of such remarks about professors of another science or religion except
Astrology ? What would be thought of a professor of chemistry, astron-
omy, or any of the sects of the Christian religion who should make
such uncharitable accusations ? It is reasonable to suppose the writer
would find himself, figuratively speaking, in a hornet's nest.

But even in the last fifty or seventy-five years there has been a re-

markable change in all the encyclopaedias and biographical dictionaries,

or works that have anything to say on the subject of Astrology. All

of the works at that time which mentioned the word Astrology or As-
trologers could not find epithets severe enough in condemnation of both.
The Astrologer was called a "fraud," "impostor," "ignoramus," "char-
latan," and a number of names of that description, especially when they
spoke of William Lilly, John Gadbury, and others. The people who
consulted them were called their " dupes," even when the people were
the kings and queens and members of Parliament of England. When
they spoke of that science they stated that Astrology was exploded,
condemned, "put under ban of the law," etc.

But in all the new Biographical Dictionaries, under the name William
Lilly they do not even mention that he was a "fraud " or " impostor."
And under Astrology in the new Encyclopaedias they do not even men-
tion its being "exploded," or that it is an "ancient superstition." At
the same time, they do not offer any apologies for having previously
made use of those expressions in former editions. Even Chambers will

soon be compelled to change the wording of the article on Astrology
in their Encyclopaedia.

I propose shortly to publish a pamphlet showing how the scientists

and writers of the works above mentioned are evoluting out of their

own "ignorance" and "superstition" when treating on those subjects.

I have every reason to believe it will be as interesting as anything pub-
lished in the latter part of the nineteenth century. Professor Richard
A. Proctor, when he published his " Humbug of Astrology " in the

"New York World," knew at the time that he was uttering untruths

and falsehoods. The " World " would not publish my reply, but I

published it in a pamphlet entitled "Why I am an Astrologer."
Even Mr. Proctor could not help admitting that the science of As-
trology was as ancient as any on the face of the earth, and " that

all nations which had attained any advance in civilization were firm

believers in it." As he says himself, "the cuneiform inscriptions of
Assyria, the hieroglyphs of Egypt, the most ancient records of Babylon,
Persia, India, and China, agree in showing that of old all men believed

that the Sun and Moon, the planets and the stars foretold, nay, ruled
"

the fortunes of men and nations.

in it, and published the almanac because they could raise money by it. If those pious missionary
people had to go into the counterfeiting business in order to raise money to spend in saving the

souls of the heathen, that wouid be no valid reason for condemning all good money. Neither
should Astrology be condemned because those hypocrites counterfeited it.



APPENDIX. 435

THOMAS DICK ON THE ABSURDITY OF ASTROLOGY.
In a work published in England by Thomas Dick, about 1830, and

which has gone tbrough a great many editions, called " The Improve-
ment of Society by the Diffusion of Knowledge," in Harpers' edition,
published in New York in 1839, on page 31 he says :

" The planetary bodies, indeed, may, in certain cases, have some
degree of physical influence on the earth, by virtue of their attractive

power, but that influence can never affect the operation of moral causes,

or the qualities of the mind. Even although it were admitted that the
heavenly bodies have an influence over the destinies of the human race,

yet we have no data whatever by which to ascertain the mode of its

operation, or to determine the formula and rules by which calculations

are to be made, in order to predict the fates of nations, or the individual
temperaments and destinies of men ; and consequently, the principles and
rules on which Astrologers proceed in constructing horoscopes, and cal-

culating nativities, are nothing else than mere assumptions, and their

pretensions nothing short of criminal impositions upon the credulity of
mankind."

It is difficult to understand what Mr. Dick meant when he said

"we have no data whatever by which to ascertain, or to determine the
formula or rules by which calculations are to be made, in order to pre-
dict the fate of nations or the individual temperaments and destinies of
men." Did Mr. Dick write this sentence in pure ignorance, or was it a

deliberate falsehood on his part ? He must have known that there

were thousands of Astrological works published in different parts of
Europe, which give the data and formula for making the calculations

and predicting the fate of men. In other words, did he believe that

because he had never read and studied those books no one else has ever
done so? There are hundreds of thousands of men who have read these

works, if he has not. I have read and studied scores of different text

books on Astrology myself, and have quite a library of such books, all

in the English language.
Some years ago a prominent member of the Parliament of England

(I think it was Lord Brougham) rose in the House of Commons to reply

to a question, and said " that he had never seen, read, or heard that

there was a periodical published c
called The London Journal,' " ye-t at

that time that Journal had a circulation of over three hundred thousand,
the largest of any paper in the world. His answer produced roars of
laughter, as there were but few people in England at that time who had
not read or knew something about "The London Journal." Suppose
this member of Parliament had said "that any one who had read or
seen "The London Journal" was a criminal impostor, who wanted to

impose on the credulity of mankind ; he would then have placed himself

in the very position that Mr. Dick placed himself when he wrote the
book "On the Improvement of Society by the Diffusion of Know-
ledge," and which ought to have read, "Diffusion of Falsehoods."

It is astonishing how far prejudice will go against certain sciences,

literature, and religions, when the teaching does not coincide with their



:

43^ APPENDIX.

particular class of reading or study. For instance, the Allopathic doctors
will not read or pay any attention to anything that is published in Ho-
moeopathic, Botanic, or Eclectic works. They say it is not "official"
unless it is published in their own literature and text books. They do
everything possible to crush out all systems of medicine except their

own, and call all other schools of medicine "quacks and frauds." They
tell me, as they have told hundreds of others, that "we are going to

have only one sect in medicine," and they use the same means which
the people formerly used when they were determined to have only one
sect in religion.

It ia the same in regard to scientists; they will not notice or recog-
nize any kind of knowledge or learning unless it is published in their

particular kind of literature. They are like the General, who, while
burning the Alexandrian Library said "that

y if what is in those many
thousands of volumes is in the Koran, it is of no use, as we have it in

the Koran; and if it is not in the Koran, then it is false, and oughc
to be burned."

Even in this small pamphlet I have given some of the rules and data
by which to make the calculations that are used by Astrologers, and
how to make predictions, and I am not the only Astrologer in the world.
Not only that, but there have been Astrologers ever since the dawn of
civilization. Even at the present day thre^-fourths of the inhabitants of
the world are believers in Astrology, and Uoe it in their every-day life.

Mr. Dick also says, "The planetary bodies may have some physicr"

influence on the earth." Does he not know that even thousands of

years ago that influence was known and recognized? We read in Job
xxxviii, 31, "Canst thou bind the sweet influences of the Pleiades, or

loose the bands of Orion ? Knowest thou the ordinances of heaven ?

Canst thou set the dominion thereof in the earth ? " In those days
planetary influence was universally recognized, and to doubt it was al-

most equal to doubting the existence of the sun.

Even Thomas Dick admits that Astrology was taught and recognized
in ancient times by every nation on the face of the earth that had at-

tained any degree of civilization. Although he does not bring a single

fact nor argument against Astrology, he admits its universality when he
says

"Notvvitstanding the absurdity of the doctrines of Astrology, this art

has been practised in every period of time. Among the Romans the

people were so infatuated with it that the Astrologers, or, as they were
then called, the mathematicians', maintained their ground in spite of all

the edicts of the emperors to expel them from the capital ; and after

they were at length expelled by a formal decree of the senate, they found
so much protection from the credulity of the people, that they still

remained in Rome unmolested. Among the Chaldeans, the Assyrians,

the Egyptians, the Greeks, and the Arabians, in ancient times, Astrology
was uniformly included in the list of the sciences, and used as one
species of divinatian by which they attempted to pry into the secrets of

futurity. The Brahmins in India, at an early period, introduced this art

into that country, and, by means of it, have rendered themselves the



APPENDIX. 437
arbiters of good and evil hours, and of the fortunes of their fellow-men,
and have thus raised themselves to great authority and influence among
the illiterate multitude. They are consulted as oracles, and, like all

other impostors, they have taken great care never to sell their answers
without a handsome remuneration.* In almost every country in the
world this art is stillpractised, and only a short time has elapsed since

the princes and legislators of Europe were directed in the most impor-
tant concerns of the state by the predictions of Astrologers. Tn the

time of Queen Catharine de Medici, Astrology was so much in vogue,
that nothing, however trifling, was to be done without consulting the

6tars. The Astrologer Morin, in the seventeenth century, directed

Cardinal Richelieu's motions in some of his journeys, and Louisa Maria
de Gonzaga, Queen of Poland, gave 2000 crowns to carry on an edition

of his Astrologia Gallica j and in the reign of Henry the Third and
Henry the Fourth of France, the predictions of Astrologers were the

common theme of court conversation. Even in the present day, and in

the metropolis of the British empire, this fallacious art is practised, and
its professors are resorted to for judicial information, not only by the
vulgar, but even by many in the higher spheres of life. The extensive
annual sale of more than 240,000 copies of ' Moore's Almanac,' which
abounds in such predictions, and of similar publications, is a striking

proof of the belief which is still attached to the doctrines of Astrology
in our own age and country."

If we had wanted some person to give Astrology a special "puff" in

some modern newspaper, as an advertisement, I do not see that we could
engage a man better adapted to do it than Mr. Thomas Dick. He
says, "Notwithstanding the absurdity of the doctrine of Astrology,
this art has been practised in every period of time." And yet he does
not give a single fact, argument, or reason why it is absurd. Is As-
trology only absurd to those who know nothing about it? Possibly that

is the reason why those people ignorant of Astrology write as they do
when treating on that subject.

All persons, before they learn geography, think it quite absurd that

the earth is round. It takes a long time to convince them that it is not
flat like a pancake. Every one has very crude ideas about astronomy,
and thinks many things in connection with that science are erroneous,
until he becomes better acquainted with the stars and planetary bodies
including the sun and the earth.

Even those who have been taught that the world was created in six

days as described in the first chapter of Genesis think that geology is

very absurd, and it takes time to convince them that it took thousands
of years for the earth and its inhabitants to be developed to their present

state of perfection.

Possibly if Mr. Dick and Professor Richard A. Proctor had been
taught Astrology in their early years, it might not appear quite so absurd

* Are doctors, lawyers, ministers, and followers of other professions impostors, because they
receive a remuneration for their services? All writers against Astrology harp on that subject.
According to their notion Astrologers are the worst people in the world, and are the only people
who must work for nothing, and if they want anything for their services, they are impostors I



.-% APPENDIX.

to them. It frequently happens that the absurdity of a thing exists only
in the minds of the ignorant. At least, a comprehensive knowledge of
any science ought to make one more charitable to the unlearned. It

is difficult to believe that any one who has received a liberal education
would stoop so low as to call those who differ with him in opinion
on scientific subjects " criminal impostors," " unscrupulous rascals,"

"charlatans," and "lying knaves."
In regard to the people of Rome being so infatuated with the As-

trologers, and protecting them in spite of the edicts of the Emperors and
the Senate to expel them, they still remained in Rome, unmolested.
Are we to understand from Mr. Dick's remarks that the people of Rome
protected their mathematicians, or Astrologers, when they knew them
to be frauds and impostors, similar to what they might have protected
thieves, murderers, bandits, or pirates, knowing them to be such ? Or
did the Romans protect the Astrologers because they knew them to be
innocent of any crime, and only persecuted by the Emperors and Senate
for some reason of their own, the same as we read in history of the
British Government persecuting the Roman Catholics, and driving them
out of the British Islands, and at other times persecuting the Presbyte-
rians, Nonconformists, and Puritans, and driving them to the wilds of
America.

The reason why the Roman citizens protected the Astrologers was,
that they knew they were a benefit to the community, and had great

influence over the people, and the Astrologers prevented the Emperors
and Senate from making slaves of them. That is the reason why the

rulers wanted to drive the Astrologers out of the capital.

If the Astrologers had been driven out of Rome, would it have made
them any worse citizens than the Pilgrim Fathers who were driven out
of England on account of adhering to their religious belief?

There are two orders of nobility in America. One is, when a man
can trace his ancestry back to the landing of the Pilgrim Fathers at

Plymouth Rock, after they were expelled from the British Islands ; the

other is, when a man can say his grandfather fought in the Revolution, and
helped to drive the English from this country. Even if the Astrologers
had been driven out of Rome, their descendants might have been proud
in tracing back their ancestry to that epoch, the same as the English are

proud when they can say their ancestors came over with William the
Conqueror.

It is strange that what is considered in connection with the Pilgrim
Fathers as a badge of honor, is regarded in connection with Astrologers
as a stigma of disgrace.

The people of Rome must have regarded the Astrologers as equal if

not superior to other citizens, and of great service to the community,
which made them disobey the laws of the country in protecting, and not
assisting the authorities in driving them out of Rome.*

* The main reason why I have criticised Mr. Thomas Dick's " Absurdity of Astrology'' in
preference to other authors who have written against that science, is because the British Parlia-
ment granted him .£5,000 (equal to $25,000) on account of the religious vein which runs through
all his works, and the great amount of supposed good his " Improvement of Society by the Diffu-



— —;

APPENDIX. 439

PENNY MAGAZINE'S REFUTATION OF ASTROLOGY.
In the "Penny Magazine," No. 736, published in London, England,

may be found an article on Judicial Astrology, being, as the author im-
agines, a refutation of that science, which, however, we now take the

liberty to tell the writer we consider so much beneath a refutation that it
t

goes far to establish the truth of Astrology. It appears from the general

disrepute in which Astrology is held by some people, that any snarling

cur has a right to give it a bite, and every ass a kick, with impunity,
because it does not happen to be the fashion of the day.

We shall give a few extracts from the article in question, considering
this the shortest and most proper method of showing the writer's false-

hood, and his inability to perform the task he has so inconsiderately
undertaken :

"Even the disbelief in Astrology, which is now so generally prevalent in society, is rather to
be considered the effect of education than a firm conviction of the mind, resulting from investigation
and inquiry."

We may state that we are also of the same opinion. Here is a plain

confession that the general disbelief in Astrology, in the community at

large, is to be considered chiefly as the effect of prejudice, and not from
any conviction of mind arising from inquiry and proper investigation

that is, they are disbelievers simply because they have been taught that

Astrology is not true, and that it is not the fashion of the day to believe

in it ; not that they know any just cause or impropriety in the science,

and thus relying upon other persons' judgments, they renounce the sci-

ence without they, themselves, knowing anything of its principles, or of
its truth or falsehood. This alone is one proof of the verity of the

science. If Astrology were false, an investigation of its laws would, of
itself, be sufficient to condemn it. But, instead of this being done, we
find it set down for falsehood by persons altogether unacquainted with
its principles.

sion of Knowledge," "Celestial Scenery," etc, had done, and which gave him the name of "The
Christian Philosopher." I believe he is the only author the British Government ever honored or
recognized in such a substantial manner. Yet if I went through the whole of his works I would
find them just as full of falsehoods and misrepresentations as his "Absurdity of Astrology." I

have read nearly all of them.
I cannot understand why the British Government thus honors one author, even if his works

were perfection itself, while they are doing everything possible by all kinds of persecution to suppress
or destroy other authors. I refer to a noted writer, whose name I do not wish to mention, but
who is an Astrologer and an author of Astrological books. The authorities in England have
broken into his house numbers of times, and carried off everything he used in his business or in

making his calculations to enable him to publish his works, in the same manner that the authorities

in this country carry off faro tables and other gambling instruments, "sawdust" circulars, etc..

from gambling houses.
The only way the Astrologer could circumvent the authorities was by making a friend of his

landlord, whose name was Mr. Lord, and who permitted him to label all his books, globes, and
mathematical tables and instruments "This is the property of Mr. Lord." Then the authorities
dare not take them. Yet that man was placed at the mercy of his landlord, who could have carried
off all his goods at any time, and without a moment's notice.

Astrology has prospered in England, and in every part of the world, in spite of all this kind of
persecution ; yet its enemies tell us that it has been exploded, and that there is nothing in it.

In a free and civilized country such as England is at the present day, why should some authors
be thus honored and rewarded, and others persecuted and imprisoned? As the poet says

" Strange that such a difference there should be
'Twixt tweedledum and tweedledee."



:

44° APPENDIX.

The writer of the article goes on to say
"Yet the practice (since 1611), I fear, has fluctuated rather than decreased."

Here is another strong evidence in favor of Astrology, that it has
withstood the prejudice of centuries and the censure of ages. Had As-
trology been false and based in error, it would have fallen by its own
weapons, and time alone would have proven sufficient to consign it to
oblivion

; yet we find quite the reverse of this to be the case, and that

in late years it has rather increased than otherwise.
The writer then proceeds, in No. 744, to erect a figure or map of

the heavens, which he has been pleased to style a Nativity, all of which,
however, is mere supposition.

Bur, in order to show the reader the writer's inability to accomplish
the task he has so ignorantly undertaken, we might mention that
the figure or map of the heavens is, in many respects, very incorrect.

For instance, in the longitude or Jupiter there is an error of four degrees
and three minutes ; in Saturn, of three degrees and three minutes ; in

Mercury, of three degrees and seventeen minutes, and in Venus, twenty
minutes. The Part of Fortune is also placed in the wrong part of the
figure ; and the planet Uranus is not in the figure at all. A pretty com-
mencement this is, for a critic to come before the public, with the intention
of refuting the science of Astrology—a person altogether ignorant of the

common rules or the simple elements of the science. It appears that

the erection of a map of the heavens is not so easily accomplished as

this would-be critic would lead us to believe.* We shall now proceed

JTa£

tf U
*The time the writer erected his supposed horoscope was June 13, 1842, at 12, noon, London,

England. I here insert the chart of the heavens for the above time, corrected, and the planets in

their proper places, with the planet Uranus and the Part of Fortune inserted, so that the reader can
see for himselt. I do this to show that I do not want to take any advantage of the writer's ignor-

ance of mathematics, but would rather give him all the aid possible to expose Astrology. I am
always willing to " help a lame dog over a stile "—it is my nature. As the planet Neptune was



APPENDIX. 44I

to give the writer's judgment, or, more strictly, his nonsense, on this

supposed nativity :

"The sign Virgo, ascending, makes ingenious and studious persons, and Mercury, the lord of
the ascendant, being located in the mid-heaven, and the lord thereof, declares the native to be of
a most admirable fancy and great elocution ; and as he is also in good aspect of Venus, and in

reception of the Moon, the person born under his rule will become a most accomplished orator,

and be famous as a divine or philosopher. Venus in the tenth, denotes that the native will be
greatly beloved and esteemed, and that he will marry honorably, and gain great eminence and
renown. But 'our life is of a mingled yarn.' The Dragon's Tail portends, when located in

the tenth house of the Nativity, a fatal end to the honor of the native; and when Mars is

posited in the tenth house, being lord of the eighth (as is the case in this figure), he declares
death to the native by the sentence of a judge. This would be, indeed, a most inglorious termina-
tion to a career which promised, at the outset, to be so resplendent ; but hope gleams on the horo-
scope from one of the most brilliant constellations. The Moon is entering into a conjunction with
Cor Leonis, 'the Lion's Heart,' which gives her a greater degree of strength than any other acci-

dental circumstance. And the mid-heaven, well fortified (as in this case) by the presence of Mars
and the Sun, not only gives eminent honor, but such as shall be durable, though it may be subject
to interruptions. We may there 01 e hope that the native, even though sentenced by a judge, will

be spared from an untimely fate.'

The writer then goes on to say, that nothing can be properly ascer-

tained except by calculating the figure. We, however, have neither
time nor space to pursue further this truly logical and scientific jargon
From beginning to end it is one continued scene of confusion and mis-
representation, and clearly shows that the writer is entirely ignorant of
Astrology, and unacquainted with the principles by which its professors

are guided. Had the writer possessed the slightest knowledge of the rules

of Astrology, he would have seen that the figure neither " declared the
native to be of a most admirable fancy," nor of " great elocution ;"and
Mercury having no aspect to the Moon, "the person born under his

rule" would neither "become a most accomplished orator," nor "be
famous as a divine or philosopher ;" but, on the contrary, that he would
have seen quite the reverse was shown; and that Mercury in Cancer, in

opposition (a very evil aspect) to Jupiter, would denote a person of mean
abilities, and one of an evil and dissipated character. But in order to

show the reader how far the above critic is wide of his mark, we will

insert below a few rules from our Astrological books ; rules that we have
to go by in our every-day practice, and then the reader will see what
sort of an orator, or divine, or philosopher the above critic's hero
would make :

"The Complete Dictionary of Astrology," by James Wilson, Esq.,
London, England, page 148, says :

" Mercury in Cancer gives a short squab figure, bad complexion, sad brown hair, thin face,
sharp nose, and small eyes ; a dishonest, ill-natured, deceitful wretch, and one who is generally
given to drinking."

" Astronomy and Elementary Philosophy, by Placidus de Titus, an
Italian Monk, translated from the Latin, by E. Sibly, London,
England, 1789, Vol. I, page 55, says:

"Mercury in Cancer personates a low or short stature of body, of an ill complexion, dark hair,

thin face, sharp nose, small eyes ; a mere dissembler, sottish, light-fingered, ill-natured, unless the
Moon or Jupiter be in good aspect to Mercury."

In the above Nativity the Moon has no aspect to Mercury, but
Jupiter is in opposition to it, which makes it all the worse.

not discovered in 1842, he could not have inserted it. but its longitude on June 13 of that year was
eighteen degrees and thirty-eight minutes in Aquarius, in the 5th house, and was at that time in
opposition to the Moon and in trine to the Sun.



:

44 2 APPENDIX.

" The. Prognostic Astronomer ; or Horary Astrology," by Dr. W. J.

Simmonite, Leeds, Yorkshire, England, 1854, page 10, says:

"Mercury in Cancer personates a low or short stature, dull complexion, sad brown hair, thin

face, sharp nose, and small eyes; and in disposition dissembling, sottish, thievish, except Mercury
happens to be in good aspect to the Moon and Jupiter. But it Jupiter be in Virgo or Gemini,
then the native is a vagabond, etc."

" New and Complete Illustration of the Occult Sciences," by E.

Sibly, M. D., F. R. H. S., London, England, 1807, page 375, says:

"Mercury in Cancer personates a low or short stature of body, of an ill complexion, sad brown
hair, thin face, sharp nose, and small eyes; and in disposition a mere dissembler, a sottish kind of

pot-coinpaniou, and light-fingered; also an ill-natured person, unless the Moon and Jupiter be in

good aspect to Mercury."

"The Complete Arcana of Astral Philosophy," by W. J. Simmon-
ite, A. M., M. B. A., London, England, 1847, Vol. I, page 71, says:

" Mercury in Cancer gives a short, squab figure, bad complexion, sad brown hair, thin face,
sharp nose, small eyes ; dishonest, deceitful, and given to drinking."*

I do not think the writer for the " Penny Magazine " could get
much wider of the mark even if he tried. I have inserted the above
Astrological Rules, in order to show the reader what kind of an accom-
plished oratory diviney or philosopher the above writer's hero would be,
and partly to refute the accusations brought against Astrology (by its

enemies) that there are no rules, data, or system in that science, but
that it is all imagination, as Thomas Dick falsely states.

If the writer had known anything of the rules of Astrology, he would
have known that the "mid-heaven would not be fortified by the presence
of Mars," but that both the Sun and the mid-heaven would be afflicted

by its presence. Mars, like Saturn, being an evil planet, does not
fortify, but afflicts wherever it is situated in a horoscope.

Venus in the 10th house would have nothing to do with the native's

marriage, or he " marrying honorably, and gaining great eminence and
renown." Venus in the mid-heaven, in conjuntion with Mercury, would
cause him to have. a number of female friends, very much like himself,

and be fond of music and the fine arts, but he would probably steal both
the music and the pictures.

In a man's nativity we always look to the planet that the Moon first

applies to by aspect, also the 7th house and the lord of the seventh, to

describe the wife and the kind of marriage. The Moon first makes a

sextile of Mars in the mid-heaven in Gemini in this horoscope, which
describes a tall, slender, proud and straight- built, dark-complexioned
lady, with brown hair. But so far from giving him " eminence and
renown by his marriage," it would be quite the reverse, as his wife would
bring him nothing but misfortune, and break him up in his business, on
account of Mars afflicting the 10th house, and the Sun in the 10th.

William Lilly's Introduction to Astrology by Zadkiel, Bohn's edition,

London, England, page 302, says

* I could copy from twenty or thirty other authors, all describing Mercury in Cancer, but it

would be almost a repetition of the above, and I think I have given enough to show that the writer

is perfectly ignorant of the subject, and has not consulted a single text-book on Astrology: if he
had he would not have made such glaring blunders. I am disposed to believe that he is publishing
his own horoscope, as it would describe just such a person as the writer in the '" Penny Magazine,"
and that is one reason why he tried to make it appear so favorable, to flatter his own vanity.

But I must leave it to the reader to decide the question whether it is his horoscope or not.



:

APPENDIX. 443
" Mars in Gemini describes a person who is unfortunate, living in a mean way, generally shifting

here and there, leaving debts unpaid, and exercising her wits for her livelihood ; in short, a cheva-
lier (Vindnstrie, or mere swindler."

Also, Mars being in close square to Uranus, in the 7th house (the
house of marriage), would cause her to be tyrannical, extravagant, and
to have a terrible temper, in short, a regular Tartar. Also, Jupiter, lord
of the 7th house, being retrograde, in opposition to Mercury and Venus,
and applying to a conjunction of Saturn, would show that she would
elope with another man, indicated by Saturn in Capricorn.

Therefore this native "marrying so honorably and gaining great em-
inence and renown," would come to a most disastrous end. Truly this

"Refutation of Astrology" is a "mingled yarn" of misrepresentations
and falsehoods, and of which the writer ought to be ashamed; but no
doubt it is an exact description of his wife, if the time given is his own
time of birth. Had he been versed in Astrology he would see that the
Dragon's Tail is not afflicting any planet, and is not in the 10th house, but
on the cusp of the 11th, consequently could not declare "death to the
native by the sentence of a judge," unless the judge made as many mis-
takes as the writer in " The Penny Magazine."

If he be surprised (as he scornfully says) how one Astrologer could
look in the face of another without laughing, I am truly astonished that

he, presumptuous as he is, could come before the public with such pre-
posterous untruths. I may justly say, in transposition of the words of
Byron

" If Ptolemy, when his works were ended,
Had heard this blockhead prate before him,
To us his works had ne'er descended ;

In furious mood he would have torn 'em."

Although I have endeavored to be as plain as possible in attacking
every argument brought forward by the above writer in his " Refutation
of Astrology," yet I am aware that my remarks will not be understood
and appreciated by the general reader as they are meant to be, unless

he has some knowledge of that science.*

But the most flagrant and absurd part of this farce is, that it ema-
nates from the "Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. "f

* If Astrology were one-quarter as well understood as arithmetic, the writer of the " Refutation
Of Astrology" would become the laughing stock of the whole civilized world.

Similar to Rev. John Jasper, when he preached his sermon "The Sun Do Move." Yet two
or three hundred years ago the Rev. John Jasper's belief was universal, and for any one known to

believe differently it was certain death or long imprisonment. Even Galileo, at seventy years of
age, in i6u, was sentenced to an indefinite term of imprisonment by the Inquisition because he
said the Sun did not move. He had to adjure, by oath, on his knees, that the Sun did move, in

order to be liberated.

The reason why the Reverend gentleman got himself and the Bible laughed at so extensively,

was that he tried to prove his science by the Scriptures, as if the Bible were a text-bock on astron-

omy. Nothing could be more absurd.
There is no doubt that two or three hundred years hence belief in Astrology will be universal*

and any one disbelieving in it will be considered behind the age, and laughed at like the Rev.John
Jasper in his sermon on "The Sun Do Move."

t A society that many of the wealthy classes of England belong to, which publishes a vast

number of books, chiefly of a moral, religious, and popular science nature. Any respectable

person can become a member by paying a yearly donation, and members can buy books published
by the Societv, in any part of the British dominions, at 25 per cent. off.

One would think that a society of that character would engage the most talented writers that



444 APPENDIX.

Now, had the Nativity of some well-known character (as Lord
Brougham, the Duke of Wellington, George Washington, etc.) been
selected, and have proven that the rules had failed, or were not borne
out by facts, it would have done more to condemn Astrology than if

volumes had been written against that science. Why has this not been
done? Why is it not done] Simply because it cannot be done. The
reader may rest assured that it either cannot be done, or, if it can, the

enemies of Astrology have not brains sufficient to do it. I think that

one plain fact of this nature would be worth more, and would do more,
to disprove Astrology than if a folio volume were written against it. My
limits will not allow of saying more at present; I however consider that

I have sufficiently shown the falsehoods of the article in question, and the

writer's inability to disprove the rules of Astrology. I hope, should he at

any future time be disposed to take up his pen against this science, he will

first learn something of its principles, and know that none should con-
demn who do not understand ; and I hope he will remember

" Nothing to extenuate, or set down aught in malice."

On a fine starlit evening, returning from Yonkers, my wife wished
me to point out the various constellations and planets then visible. A
friend with us, noticing that I was familiar with the heavenly bodies,
asked if I was an Astrologer. I answered yes, and had some conversa-
tion with him on the subject. My friend, some time afterwards, heard
the minister of his church saying how wicked it was to consult Astrolo-
gers, and that the science was false, asked, '* Do you, of your own know-
ledge, know that Astrology is false?" He answered, "I do not." My
friend continued : "I have an acquaintance who understands Astrology,
and he says it is true. Which must I believe?"

could be had, or money could hire, to write for or against any subject, but the reader can see how
deficient the writer in "The Penny Magazine" has been in his knowledge of Astrology.

I might go on answering scores of other writers who have published articles in refutation of
Astrology; some have published whole volumes against it. They have brought God, the Bible
Jesus Christ, and every " thing that is in heaven above, or in the earth beneath, or in the waters
under the earth " against it ; and everything that could be raked up out of their own imagination.
But I ask only one question in all these matters, that is, Is it trite ? Truth is irresistible, and every
thing that is not true vanishes before it like vapor in broad daylight. Truth is mighty and must
prevail.

All these writers against Astrology are generally so shallow and nonsensical that it is not worth
while answering them. Even the article in the " Penny Magazine " was not worth answering, but
the "Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge" gave it an eclat which caused me to notice
it. In all the writings against Astrology that I have met with, there is one concurrent fact which
runs through the whole of them, and which stands out prominently; that is, they are all intended
to keep people who know nothing about it in ignorance of it. If the writers of these articles knew
the first principles of the science they would stop writing against Astrology, and write in favor of it.

A prominent divine in England, who had written article after article in refutation of Astrology,
after thinking the matter over carefully, came to the conclusion that if he only had a knowledge cf
the subject, he could write against it with more effect. So he commenced to study it for that pur-
pose, but there is where he made his great mistake, for, instead of continuing to write against it,

he published one of the best text books we have on that subject, called " Butler's Astrology." I
refer to Bishop Butler of the Episcopal Church of England. Therefore, if you wish to write ar.d
talk against Astrology, the less you know about it the better, and you will always find that the people
who are as ignorant as yourself will agree with you, and they are in the great majority in all Chris-
tian countries.

You must never study Astrology ifyou do not -want to be convinced of its truth, and be-
come a convert to that science.



APPENDIX. 445

Note continued from "To the Student," page ix.

I should not have taken any notice of the Stationers' Company buying
the right to publish John Partridge's Almanac and Ephemeris from his

widow, if Wiliiam and Robert Chambers had not referred to it in their
Encyclopoedia with the sole object of degrading Astrology and Astrologers.

To convince the student that Astrologers had nothing whatever to do
with the publication of that Almanac and Ephemeris after John Partridge's
death, I cannot do better than quote a prediction from Mr. Partridge's
Almanac during the time he was publishing it, and also one or two predic-
tions from the same Almanac during the time it was published by the
Stationers' Co. But before doing so I think it might be interesting to the
reader to insert a passage from the Almanac and Ephemeris of Mr. Francis
Moore, the Almanac which Rev. Thomas Dick refers to as having a yearly
sale of 240,000 copies, and at the time when there was probably not more
than 500,000 inhabitants in London. Then the reader can judge of the
merits of the Almanac and its author, and I think he can readily perceive
that Mr. Moore was well informed on the science of Astrology, especially
in that branch, called " Mundane Astrology," and which branch is chiefly
made use of in Astrological Almanacs. On page 14 in his prediction for the
Spring quarter of that year which occured for the longitude of England on
March 20th, at 51 minutes past one in the morning, he says:

"The ground of all predictions is referred to Comets, and great conjunctions of the two
Superiors, Saturn and Jupiter; and also of Saturn, Jupiter and Mars, in cardinal signs, and in
angles of the heaven, near eminent fixed stars, but in the very beginning of Aries, chiefest of all.

Now he that would discover the active, and turbulent years before they come, and when great and
eminent things shall be transacted, or mankind suffer by some uncommon calamity or plague,
scarcity, inundations, fire or. War, he must first observe the place of the Comet, what Kingdom it

afflicts, and also what princes' nativity it afflicts, also what kingdom or city it is vertical to, and of
what nature this Comet is, whether Saturnine, Martial, etc, and in what year it doth afflict any
of those countries or persons ; and secondly, let him observe at the entrance of every year, how the
Sun, Moon or Mars, behold the place of the conjunction by Quartile or opposition, and if near any
violent fixed star ; as also what eclipses fall in or near those points or parts of Heaven, and how
Saturn and Mars do govern or afflict at those times, and in what part of the scheme they fall, as
well as in what part of the Z >diac. Likewise the eclipses ought to be considered with the comets
also, and in particular how they stand or are affected in their declinations, for I esteem that to be
one of the most considerable incidents that dotli or can attend them in this circumstance ; and then
lastly, when you have considered all these particulars carefully, make use of the ingress of the Sun
into the sign Aries to guide and direct you in your judgment in the discovery of what is most re-
markable and likely to happen, in that or any other year. Besides these things there are the transits
of Saturn through the twelve Signs, by which means', he does afflict divers Countries and Kingdoms,
by his conjunction every thirtieth year, and by his opposition every fifteenth year. He is just
entering Cancer, (Saturn entered Cancer the 24th of April, 1768,) those Kingdoms and Countries
under that sign, and many others will be found uneasv and out of order, during his transit through
that sign, .and that indeed seldom fails, without something remarkable to prevent it, as I could show
you by going backwards, with history in one hand, and an ephemeris in the other."

I have copied the above from Moore's Almanac for 1768, for two pur-
poses; the first to show there is little wonder that the almanac attained
an annual sale of two hundred and forty thousand copies, not by appealing
to the ignorance and superstition of the people then living, according to the
inferences of the Rev. Thomas Dick, but by appealing to the knowledge
and intelligence of the public.

The second purpose the student will readily perceive, is that he could
not understand intelligently the reading of the two horoscopes inserted on
pages 145 and 150, the first for the time of the Inauguration of President
McKinley, and the second for the time the extra session of Congress met at
Washington on March 15th, 1897, at 12 o'clock noon, without first having
had an explanation of the principles and rules of what is termed " Mundane
Astrology," and Ifindit impossible to include them in the present volume on
account of devoting so much space to "Planetary Hours," e.tc.



446 APPENDIX.

The second almanac which attained the next largest circulation was that
of John Partridge; the right of publication was afterwards bought from his

widow. I make the following quotation from his remarks on the eclipses

which occured in 1768; on page 38 he says:

The Eclipses for the Year 1768.

There will be five eclipses to the inhabitants of this globe, two of the greater luminary, the
Sun, and three of the Moon ; they will hapren in the following order:

The first visible in England, is but a partial eclipse of the Moon, on Monday, the 4th of
January, which begins at 3 h. 12 m. and 57 s. in the morning. The second is an invisible eclipse
of the San on the 19th of January, at 18 m past six at night, but it is a great and visible eclipse
in North America. The third is a great and total eclipse of the Moon, and visible throughout
all Europe, on the 30th of June, which begins at 2 h. 2 m. and 25 s in the morning. The fourth
is an invisible eclipse of the greater luminary, the Sun, on the 14th of July, near 2 in the morn-
ing, but to those who sail on southern seas it will be a visible eclipse. The fifth and last is of the
Moon, total and visible, on the 23d of December, which begins at 1 h. 17 m. and 45 s. in the
evening.

After stating the above calculations, Mr. Partridge remarks on the above
eclipses, page 39 :

" It is observed that Eclipses of the Sun or Moon have very rarely, if ever, happened in
any age, when they were not attended with considerable effects, according to the magnitude
thereof, which may be easily proved if we do but look back, and consult antiquity or the histories
of former ages. It is the opinion of the learned Pencer, who says : ' What shall I say? Or why
shall I trifle away my time against such as deny the influence of the heavenly bodies? Or what
shall I say concerning the eclipses of the Sun and Moon? Are we ourselves, rational men, ignor-
ant that eclipses of the Sun and Moon, and the radiations, and the aspects of the other planets
are concomitant and assistant with those eclipses, their good or bad aspects, each to the other?
Do we not know their significations in all ages have been ominous, and have caused men's minds
to be terrified by a secret and occult sense of the miseries and calamities these eclipses did
presage,—to be near at hand, or immediately to follow after the same-

" It is the judgment of several learned and experienced authors, that an eclipse of the Sun or
Moon in the signs of either Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces, (the Watery Triplicity,) is very ominous.
The first eclipse occurs in the 13-25 of Cancer, in the eighth house, the most evil part of the
whole heavens. It doth usually presage deaths, destruction of the common people ; many various
and groundless fears and rumors, false intelligence, frequent risings, or seditious conspiracies, unex-
pected mutinies in many countries, especially those under the aforesaid triplicity,— expectations
of sudden wars, and the spirits of men generally perplexed with the affairs of the present times.
I really wish that our sins and impieties do not hinder our welfare this year, but if we expect any
deliverance from the evils the Celestials seem to forbode us, let us not so highly prize the things
of the world, and grind the faces of one another, as is usual in these days. I wish the following
rule was better observed, and put into practice. No man must do that in his own property or pro-
fession which may hurt another man's. And we must so use our own as we may not offend and
injure our neighbor ; let us therefore as we have occasion, do good to all men, as the apostle
speaks, Gal. vi. 10; but how adverse and contrary the practice of these times is to this heavenly
rule, I need not here remember; we now cry, ' Every man for himself, but God for us all ;

' but as
one has well inverted it, 'That where every man is for himself, the devil is for all.' One of the
greatest miseries this nation groans under, is depopulation ; but sure there is a woe to them that
join house to house, and lay field to field, till there be no place, that they may be placed above in

the midst of the earth, Isaiah v. 8. How many houses, nay almost towns, that I know of, aie
depopulated and ruined of late years.

" Nay doth not the poor smart the most of all by this sore evil? viz.: The industrious poor,
that would live by their own works and endeavors, how many of them are utterly ruined and
spoiled thereby, and several are forced to flee into other parts of the world for haibor and a j>oor

habitation. How doth the city sit solitary that was full of people? How is she become, a widow?
Lam. i. 1.

"I heartily wish we may all of us shake off those vipers, those great enemies and curses of
sin and oppression, as the forestalling of markets, and the engrossing of provisions into private
hands before they are exposed to sale, whereby the industrious poor are greatly oppressed if we

;

I say, could rid the nations of these enormities, that abound in this land, then shall that of the
prophet be undoubtedly verified, and made good unto us. Then shall we have no cause to fear
the face of the greatest oppressor, depopulators and racking landlords."

I have given the above lengthy extract from John Partridge's Almanac
for 1768, to show that at that time, the publisher was a firm believer in

the Science of Astrology, and understood the science 5 also to show that
he was a believer in the Bible, as a pious strain appears to run through all

his writings. In England the tax-ridden people complained of the same
unjust taxation and oppression, that the American colonies were suffering
from, and which resulted in the Revolution of 1776, and that in those
days there were the same racking landlords, trusts and speculators and
moneyed men forestalling the market of wheat and other eatables of the



APPENDIX. 447

poor as they are at the present day. It is very probable that the pious
strain of the author of the Almanac, and the large profits from its sale

1

were the reasons which induced the Stationers Company to purchase the
(

right of publication from Mr. Partridge's widow. I have not been able to

find in what year that pious company bought the right to publish the

almanac, but it probably was near 1792 or 1793, as I see the predictions in

those years did not require an Astrologer to write them, and they gradually
became worse from year to year.

I will here give two predictions that were made in Partridge's Almanac
in 1833, and any person can readily perceive that those who wrote them
were ignorant of the science. One was the prediction for the month of June,
1833, which says: "Many of our political clergy expose themselves to the
just animadversions of the public; let such beware, or they may find, per-
haps, when too late, that they had better have kept within the province of
their calling, when all thoughtful men would respect them."

The next prediction which I here insert was for the month of November,
1833, which says: "Great and important things are now or will ere long
be under consideration; I wish it may be for the good of the English
nation. The western parts of this kingdom send bad news from the watery
element, of boisterous storms and tempest, proving very prejudicial to the
adventurers thereon."

They generally have bad weather near the British Islands in November,
every year, and that is the month in which the greatest number of suicides are
committed in England on account of the gloomy and depressing weather.
The two above predictions were all that was published for the months of

June and November in Partridge for 1833. The predictions for the other
months, and other years are similar in every way.

I do not think that Astrologers ought to be blamed for those pious
persons making the above predictions, as they had nothing to do with
publishing such almanacs, and especially Partridge's almanac in 1833, as it

is evident from the reading that the persons who wrote them had no knowl-
edge whatever of Astrology. Therefore William and Robert Chambers
and all such revilers against Astrology ought to put the saddle on the right
horse's back.

I refer the reader to page 000, for further information on this subject.

One of the main reasons why I inserted the two lengthy predictions from
the almanacs of 1768 was partly on account of their being so many eclipses
in that year, and also its being a year in which really the American Revolu-
tion commenced.

Knight in his history of England when writing the events that occured
in 1768, in Vol. v., page 123, says: "The imposing of duties in America
on glass, red and white lead, painter's colors, paper and tea, form the
prologue to the tragedy of the American Revolution." The student
will remember that nearly all the assemblies in the colonies, passed resolu-
tions repudiating those duties, and Knight says: "Lord Hillsborough,
Secretary of the Colonies, was directed to require in the King's name that
these be rescinded, and if they refused, immediately to dissolve them." And
on page 125 he says: "The King on opening Parliament on the 8th of
November 1768, spoke in severe terms, of the proceedings in North America."

In John Partridge's account of the various eclipses which occured in

1768, that of the Sun on the 1 8th of January, although invisible in

England, 1 ''

he says : " It is a great and ^visible eclipse in North America.'
There was an unusual number of eclipses during that year, there being

five in all.



448 APPENDIX.

The student should bear in mind that the large number of eclipses of
1768, were not the only cause of the Revolution of 1776, although they
were the cause of "the prologue to the tragedy of the American Revolu-
tion." The real cause was the planet Uranus entering the sign Gemini,
which sign rules the United States. On the 25th of June, 1774, Uranus
entered Gemini, but it only reached 2°.22 / on September 19th, and then it

retrograded and re-entered the sign Taurus, December 1st, 1774. But
during the short time Uranus was in the sign Gemini, the American Con-
gress met at Philadelphia on the 5th of September, and the delegates to that
Congress from Virginia were Col. Washington, Peyton Randolph, Richard
Henry Lee, Patrick Henry, Richard Bland, Benjamin Harrison and Edmund
Pendleton. The Congress passed a Declaration of Rights addressed to the
King, and recommended a suspension of all commercial relations with the
mother country and adjourned to meet May 10th, 1775.

Uranus re-entered the sign Gemini, on the 8th of April 1775, and the
Battle of Lexington was fought on the 19th of April, 1775. Uranus con-
tinued in the sign Gemini until July 15th, 1781, when it entered the sign
Cancer. Lord Cornwallis surrendered to General Washington at York-
town on Oct. 19th, 1781. Butler in his history of the United States, on
page 154, says: "The war was virtually closed with the surrender of
Cornwallis, occasional skirmishes alone indicated its continuance."

Uranus retrograded into Gemini on the 25th of January, 1782, and
remained thereuntil May, 1782, but during these three months that Uranus
was in Gemini, its influence was still felt, and we read in " Butler's History,"
on page 154, "The treasury was bankrupt, commerce destroyed, business
neglected and the army unpaid. Congress was powerless, for its jurisdiction
was undefined or disputed. Under these circumstances, the troops, the
great bulk of whom were encamped at Newburgh on the Hudson, became
restless, impatient and finally mutinous, and failing to obtain relief from
Congress, besought Washington to make himself king and manage affairs

after his own judgment. To prevent a mutiny, Washington called a meeting
of the generals to arrange some method of pacification." The meeting was
called and General Gage was elected chairman.

Gen. Washington in opening the meeting took his spectacles from his

pocket, to enable him to read his speech, remarking in his quiet way: "I
have grown gray in your service, and now I am growing blind 5 but I never
doubted the justice of my country, or its gratitude." No stroke of oratory
could have moved so many hearts, as did this unaffected language of
Washington. (Norton's "Life of Washington," page 515.)
A preliminary treaty of peace was signed at Paris, November 30111,1782.

I find in the list of eclipses, both of the Sun and Moon, from 1850
to 1898 inclusive, there are only five years in which five eclipses occur
in one year, and each of these periods were attended with remarkable events
or occurences in different parts of the world. I have not space to enumerate
them all or the years in which they occurred, but there is no doubt that the
great number of eclipses in 1768, had a great deal to do with England losing
her American colonies j but it is not altogether the number of eclipses that

occur in a single year, it depends chiefly if those eclipses are what are termed
total, or they occur, as Francis Moore says, "in vertical places in the heavens
or in prominent positions in princes' horoscopes."

From 1850 to 1898 inclusive I find that there are four of those years

that have six eclipses, the last year was in 1880, and the year following
was remarkable for the large increase of sickness and epidemics, and the
great number of accidents, inundations, cyclones and misfortunes of almost



APPENDIX. 44Q

all kinds, so much so that the " New York Herald," near the end of the
year devoted a whole page of that paper reciting the various misfortunes
that had occured in 1 88 1 , and there scarcely was a day in the whole year,
that there was not some serious accident or misfortune, such as shipwrecks
and other disasters and calamities. Cholera was epidemic in almost all

parts of Europe, especially in Egypt and France, particularly at Marseilles
and Toulon.

The time previous to 1880, when six eclipses occured in one year, was
in 1870, and the most remarkable event of that time was the war between
Germany and Franc which commenced in July, 1870, it was a terribly
destructive war, both to J./e <r J property, and Louis Napoleon met with his
Waterloo, and surrendered to the Empero o r G rmany at Sedan, September
1st, 1870. Paris also capitulated to the German Army after being besieged for
a long time, and a great Revolution occured in that city afterwards called the
" Commune." The Empire of France was abolished and a Republic was
inaugurated. Alsace and Lorraine were ceded to Germany, besides France
paying a heavy indemnity.

The great fire in Chicago occured in 1871, which was soon after followed
by the great fire of Boston ; but the planet Uranus, not afflicting the sign
which governs the United States, this country was not specially afflicted with
any other serious calamity or political disturbance.

The time previous to 1870 when six eclipses occured in one year was in

1859. On the 1 6th of October in that year, John Brown, with 21 associates,
seized the United States Arsenal, at Harper's Ferry, intending to arm there-
from such slaves as would join them. He held the position for two days, but
no slaves came, and his adherents were captured, tried, and executed.
" This was the prologue to the tragedy of the rebellion of the Southern States."

But as I stated above the great number of eclipses in 1768, was not the
only cause of the Revolution in 1776, but the main cause was the planet
Uranus entering the sign Gemini. So the extraordinary number of eclipses
in 1859 was not the only cause of the commencement of the rebellion of the
Southern States, but as in the case of the rebellion of the American Colonies
against the mother country 84 years before, or one revolution of that
planet, when it re-entered Gemini on the 8th of April, 1775, and the battle
of Lexington was fought April 19th, 1775, a°d the revolution lasted until
Uranus left that sign and entered Cancer} Lord Cornwallis surrendered to
General Washington at Yorktown, October 19th, 1781. Uranus left Gem-
ini July 15th, 1781.

Uranus again entered the sign Gemini the second time in the history of
the United States, on the 12th of March, 1859, which was the main cause
of the excitement and hanging of John Brown, and the commotion in the
Southern States on account of the "slavery question," caused by the Aboli-
tionists in the North. Uranus turned retrograde on the 15th of September,
1859, and continued retrograding until the 10th of February, i860, and it

retrograded almost out of the sign Gemini, which caused the commotion to
almost die out, but on thai day Uranus turned direct and continued in the
sign Gemini until the 25th of June, 1865.

The Civil War commenced with the firing on Fort Sumter, April
13th, 1 861, when the war-like planet Mars, formed a square of Uranus in

Gemini j and the war was practically ended, by the surrender of Gen.
Robert E. Lee to Gen. Grant, April 9th, 1865, when Uranus was just
leaving Gemini.

In 1852 was the next previous period when we had six eclipses in one
year j in that year there was great excitement caused by religious disputes,
(and even riots) between the Catholics and Protestants, especially in Phila-



45° APPENDIX.

delphia. In that year the United States was on the point of war with G: • at
Britain on account of the "fishery question," but it was settled in Lhe
following year. There was also much excitement over the "slavery ques-
tion," the North being very much incensed because of the fugitive slave
law, and the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Bill, which nullified the " Mis-
souri Compromise;" the bill was introduced into the Senate bv Stephen A.
Douglass, which was violently opposed by the North.

In 1851 about six hundred adventurers, familiarly known as " Filibus-
ters,'' undertook to annex Cuba to the United States. Led by General
Lopez, they landed on the Cuban coast, but were captured, and the leaders
were shot without any interposition on the part of the United States govern-
ment. Their execution created great sympathy throughout the civilized
world.

There was also some trouble caused by the Mormons in Utah ; but the
planet Uranus not being in the sign Gemini, but Neptune only afflicting
that sign by a square from the sign Pisces, the government was enabled to
settle it without war or revolution.

There will be six eclipses in 1898, as follows : a partial eclipse of the Moon,
Jan. 7 ; a total eclipse of the Sun, Jan. 22 ; a total eclipse of the Moon,
July 3d; an annular eclipse of the Sun, July 1 8th ; a partial eclipse of the
Sun, Dec. 13th, and a total eclipse of the Moon, Dec. 27th. * There has
not been a year in almost a century in which there was such marked phen-
omena, of total or annular eclipses, and I look for some remarkable events,

* In counting back for a period of nearly fifty years, I find the highest number of eclipses
that occured in one year was six, and the lowest number two, the average is a little over three
in a year. But in looking back for a long period, I have not found any year where there was more
than six eclipses. The eclipse of the Sun is counted the most evil in its influence, and a total
eclipse of the Sun is the most evil, but the influence chiefly depends on whether the eclipse falls
vertical over any particular country, or in any sign which rules any particular nation ; or whether
it falls in any marked evil position or place in the King's, Queen's, Emperor's or Czar's horoscope
ruling any particular nation.

To prove that nearly all the Eastern Nations regard eclipses of the Sun as portending calam-
ity ancTOisaster, even up to the present da)', I copy the following from the " New York Evening
Sun,'' Dec. 29th, 1897:

" The State Department at Washington, has received by mail from Charles Denby, the
United States Minister to China, a copy of an official decree issued by the Emperor setting forth
the ancient superstition of the Orientals that the eclipse of the Sun portends disaster.

The eclipse will occur on the first day of the 24th year of the reign Kuang Hau, and the
Emperor is filled with forebodings as to its effects. In view of the troubles which have beset
China the predictions contained in the decree are remarkable. The decree is as follows :

" According to the Chun Chiu (Spring and Autumn annals) it has been stated that an eclipse
of the Sun on the first day of the year betokens an impending calamity, hence the Sovereigns of
every dynasty which has preceded us has always made it a point, whenever an eclipse of the Sun
is prognosticated, to undergo self-abasement and humble themselves before heaven in order to
avert the wrath from above.

"In the case of our own imperial dynasty, for instance, during the reign of their Majesties
Kang Hsi and Chen Lung (1662-1794,) there were observed two eclipses of the Sun, which feil each
on New Year's day ; and now, according to the Board of Astronomy, the first clay of the 24th year
of our reign (Jan 22d, 1898,) there will be yet another eclipse of the Sun We are filled with fore-

bodings at this news, and hasten to seek within ourselves for signs which may have thus brought
upon the land the wrath of high Heaven.

'• We further command that the ceremonies of congratulation usually held on New Year's
dav in the Taiho Throne Hall to be curtailed, and only ordinary obeisances be made, the place
being changed to the Chien Tsing Throne Hall. The banquet usually given to the clansmen on
New Year's day must be stopped, and when the eclipse occurs let all members of the court wear
sombre garments and assemble in the inner place before the altar set up to Heaven to pray for

forbearance and mercy to the country at large.
"This is as far as we shall concern ourselves to show our desire to propitiate high Heaven,

but as her Majesty the Empress Dowager is an elder and senior, it is but right that the full cere-

monies be observed in paving the court's obeisances on New Year's day to her Majesty. Let all

the Yaiuens concerned take note."

The fact that the eclipse which takes place on the 22d of January, 1898, occurs on the Chinese
New Year's day, will have no more effect than if it had occured on any other day of the year.



APPENDIX. 4 5t

calamities and disasters occuring during the year 1898, but of what nature it

is difficult to say without close calculations.
The two evil planets, Saturn and Uranus, will be near a conjunction in the

sign Saggitarius, in opposition to Gemini, which sign rules the United States,

and remain in that sign the whole year, excepting when Uranus retrogrades
into Scorpio on the 5th of July, but re-enters Saggitarius again on the 10th
of September. Mars comes to the opposition of both of these planets in the
month of July, 1898. Also the plwiet Neptune is now in the sign Gemini,
and afflicting the United States, and remains in that sign until the end ot

1900. It is unreasonable to expect 1898 will close without some serious
misfortune or calamity afflicting this country. There certainly is much
danger of war with some other nation, and there is no doubt that during
1898 there will be some disastrous war in some other country equal to the
Franco-Prussian War of 1870, and that Germany will be involved and will

meet with serious affliction or disaster. It will be curious if all these nations
ruled by the sign in which the total eclipse of the Sun on Jan. 22, 1898,
occurs keeps out of war during 1898 and 1899. The time Prince Henry,
brother to the Emperor of Germany, set sail from Kiel, Germany, for China,
Dec. 1 6th, 1897, at 9 A. M., was a remarkably evil period, and he is certain
to meet with serious disaster and misfortune. See chart of the heavens for
that date on page 000.

In tracing back the periods when Uranus was transiting through the sign
Gemini, which rules the United States, and when six eclipses occured in one
year, there is another part belonging to " Mundane Astrology," which I
would like to have introduced here but could not do it without dan-
ger of confusion to the student or the general reader. I refer to Comets.
Francis Moore says in his almanac of 176S : "The ground of all predic*
tions is referable to Comets and great conjunctions of the two superiof
planets, Saturn and Jupiter." [Uranus was not then discovered.]

Noah Webster, the author of " Webster's Dictionary, in his History of
Epidemics and Pestilential Diseases," attributes the cause of those devas-
tating calamities, cyclones, earthquakes, and volcanic eruptions, to the
influence of Comets 5 he says in tracing back through history for a period
of over two thousand years, whenever these phenomena and disastrous
events occured they have always been preceded or accompanied by Comets.

The great disasters and misfortunes which overtook the Christians
in their wars with the Turks, whenever a Comet appeared, induced the
Pope of Rome to direct prayers to the Almighty beseeching him to avert
their baleful and calamitous influence. The Pope also anathematized a

First : Had the eclipse occured in the sign which governs China, that nation might then have
felt its evil influence in a marked degree.

Second : Had it taken place in an angle in the Emperor's horoscope, especially the ascend-
ant or mid-heaven, or

Third : Had it fallen on, or near the Sun or Moon's place, or in any evil position in his horo-
scope, then not only the Emperor, but the whole Chinese people would have felt its influence and
it would cause some calamity or disaster to afflict that nation.

But China will feel some of its evil influence, as I find that this eclipse commences in the north
of China, which is in the line of its central track, and it will be seen to great advantage throughout
the whole of China, and in some parts of that country it will be vertical, and these parts will feej
its influence the most.

There is more danger that Arabia, Russia, Turkey, Prussia, Poland and Sweeden, will feel
more of the evil influence of this eclipse than China, as it falls in the sign of the Zodiac which
governs these countries. It will also be visible in all these countries except Sweeden. and if it

happens to afflict the horoscopes of the rulers of those countries then they will feel its effect all the
more. England will feel i'sevil influence in a marked degree, as the sign Aquarius, the sign in
which the eclipse occurs, rules the affairs of State of that nation.

It is very foolish for the " Emperor of China to command his subjects to wear sombre gar-
ments, and to assemble before the altar set up to heaven, and pray for forbearance and mercv dur-
ing the time of the eclipse.'' as it will have about as much effect as the "Pope's bull against the
Comet." The Emperor should command his people, to prepare to meet, or combat the disaster
that is impending over them.



4 5 2 APPENDIX.

Comet which made its appearance In the early part of the 15th century,
which has always been referred to as the " Pope's hull against the Comet"
It is evident that four or five hundred years ago that nearly all Professors of
the Christian religion regarded Comets as threatening great calamities or
disasters which caused them to pray to God to guard them against or avert
their evil influence.

I shall only refer here to four Comets which of late years have appeared.
One Comet appeared in 1852, which had in its previous visit to our solar
system divided into two, and the parts were one and one-quarter millions of
miles from each other, on this their second visit. Another one, appeared in

the Fall of 1858, which many believe to this day, presaged the war of 1861.
I remember distinctly walking out on the hills at Frankford, near Phila-
delphia, and observing the Comet when it was setting in the West after the
Sun, its nucleus just above the horizon, and its tail extending to the meridian.
It was to me an awful and grand sight. There was another Comet that
appeared in the early part of 1861.

Another remarkable Comet made its appearance before the commence-
ment of the Franco-Prussian War in 1870.

When we look back through history and observe these various phenom-
ena in the heavens and their effect on the earth and its inhabitants, is it

any wonder that we should exclaim in the language of Shakespeare, " Can
such things be and overcome us like a summer cloud, without our special
wonder ?"

I do not see why such men as Richard A. Proctor should call persons
who pay attention to these subjects, "silly, ignorant rogues, charlatans, un-
scrupulous rascals, and lying knaves," especially when we can find by calcula-
tions the time these eclipses, and other phenomena occur, and as John
Partridge says "

: Th ey may be easily proved, if we do but look back and
consult the history of former ages."

I can only answer such men as Prof. Proctor, in the words of Hamlet,
when he says "

: There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than
are dreamt of in your philosophy."

"To the Student," continued from page xii.

There are a great number of people like Prof. Roeback, who undertake
to advertise themselves exten sively as Astrologers, when they do not have
the remotest idea of even the meaning of the word " Astrology." To ex-
plain I will give an instance : My brother, M. A. Broughton, came from
England to New York, and shortly afterwards went to Philadelphia ; while
there he got several orders to write nativities, but having left his books
and ephemeris in New York, he called upon Dr. Roeback, and requested
the privilege of copying the planet's places of certain years and days
from Roeback's Ephemeris. My brother had one of his own ephemeris
with him which he had published in England, and explained to Dr.
Roeback what he wanted. Roeback replied by saying: "That is all

humbug; that is no Astrology," and showed him a small almanac, such
as is published by patent medicine men, and said "

: This is the real

Astrology." It is astonishing what harm such men as Dr. Roeback can do
a science which they pretend to follow or practice, especially that of
Astrology, of which so few persons have a knowledge.

I do not wish to say a word against clairvoyants, palmists, mind-readers,
phrenologists, spiritualists and card-cutters, as I believe a number of them
are honest in their calling. But at the same time these professions have
nothing whatever to do with the science of Astrology, although they art;

often classed as Astrologers.



APPENDIX. 453

Note continued from bottom of page 34.

* We have another remarkable instance of the power of hypnotism in that of Mr. Nelson M.
Weeks, superintendent of a Sunday-school in Hackensack, N. J., over Miss Aimee Smith, who
was a teacher in the same school and also organist in the church. The newspapers state that at

an evening sociable Mr. Weeks tried his mesmeric influence on Aimee and she easily became
under his control, so much so that after a while the people in the room begged of him to bring her
out of the hypnotic state : but it appears that the influence continued, even when she was not
hypnotized, and afterwards they were often seen together by neighbors and friends, until finally

she was taken suddenly ill and afterwards died, it was supposed of poison, in the Victor Hotel,
near 26th Street and Third Avenue, New York, March 8th, 1897, where they had registered as

man and wife. Mr. Weeks after calling a doctor departed.

Neither Harry Hayward nor Mr. Weeks are what are termed professional magnetizers. I

have seen a number of remarkable instances of hypnotic power of one person over another in pub-
lic lectures and museums, by professionals, in New York and other cities, by both ladies and gen-
tlemen who make it a business to train themselves to hypnotize people. These facts prove
beyond a question that there is some remarkable influence or secret power which one person has
over another. This influence is brought to bear in relieving pain and suffering in sick people,

and even curing disease, which goes under the various names of mind-healing, Christian science,

mesmerism, hypnotism, clairvoyancy and massage, and nearly one-half of the people in the cities,

if not in the country towns, are firm believers in one or the other of those various isms or so-called

sciences, and make use of them in curing nervousness and other complaints.

Note continued from bottom of page 41.

f The reader may be so interested in the lawsuit referred to on page 41,
that he may wish to know how we finally came out of those persecutions.

In the $100 damages, which the jury awarded Mr. James McDermott
while Mr. Chaney was confined in jail, Chaney and his lawyer made a plea
for a new trial, but the judge reserved his decision. Mr. Chaney went
down to the City Hall and saw the clerk of the court every day, except
Sunday, for about six weeks, and each day received the same answer from
the clerk of the court, which was, that the judge had not yet rendered his
decision; finally he was told that the judge had rendered a decision, and that
he was to have a new trial, but he was to make application within a month
from the time the decision was rendered, the month having already expired.
Mr. Chaney became so disgusted with New York Court proceedings, that
he gave the matter up in despair of ever having a new trial, and said "

: It's

no use attempting to do anything with such a corrupt judiciary." The
reader ought to bear in mind that this was during the regime of William M.
Tweed, and at the same period referred to by the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher,
when he said "

: That the judges of New York City were so corrupt that
they actually stunk."

The following is a specimen of Mr. Chaney 's writing, and a sample of
editorials written by a Western Editor during the forties and fifties, and is

a true account of what we had to endure at 814 Broadway, New York,
which at the time was thought to be the centre of the Metropolis of the
Western Hemisphere. So far as my memory serves me, it is strictly true,
even to the letter, yet I was sued for libel by Alexander Eagleson for print-
ing it in the " Planet Reader." The part of the article that Mr. Eagleson's
lawyer construed as libelous was, where it states, "the landlord seems pos-
sessed of a mania for sign-stealing." Mr. John Townsend, Eagleson's
lawyer and also lawyer for Mr. James Gordon Bennett, of the Neiv York
Herald, stated in his argument, when pleading for heavy damages before the
jury, "that it was plainly a libel, that Mr. Eagleson had only stolen Dr.
Broughton's signs, and that he had not gone from one end of Broadway to
the other stealing all the signs he could lay his hands on, and carting them
off," lie gave as a precedent, that a "certain gentleman had got heavy dam-
ages against a newspaper which stated that the gentleman had been going



454 APPENDIX.

around stealing bread, and all that they could prove against the defendant
was* that he had stolen one loaf,' *' The jury brought Jin a verdict against

k

me for six cents damages, and six cents costs.

I might here remark, that previous to becoming acquainted with me,
Mr. Chaney had looked upon Astrology with supreme contempt and de-
rision, and thought a person of ordinary intelligence, or who could read and
write, could have no faith m the science. The first time he came to visit

me, looking at my library, he remarked "
: Why, you don't believe in

Astrology?" After becoming acquainted with me the whole current of his

life was changed, and he has devoted over 30 years to the study and investi-
gation of that despised and persecuted science.

The following is copied from Broughton's Monthly Planet Reader and
Astrological Journal, for April, 1867.

UNPARALLELED OUTRAGES RELIGIOUS MEETINGS BROKEN UP BY
ROWDIES PERSECUTION AGAINST ASTROLOGY SPECIMENS

OF NEW YORK JUSTICE BY W. H. CHANEY.

" I shall now devote my life to Astrology, and come what may, never
shrink from being its defender."

Such was the remark we made to Dr. Broughton last October, after having
become thoroughly convinced, not only of the truthfulness of Astrology, but
that it was the most precious science ever made known to man.

"You will find that you will have enough to do, then," replied the
doctor, quietly.

He had seen service as an apostle in the cause ; had been driven out of
Pennsylvania by the passage of a law punishing with imprisonment any one
who should presume to practice the celestial science, and he knew that the
life of an Astrologer was anything but pleasant. Well, we have had six

months experience, and though not very brilliant, we propose giving it to
the public.

After forming the resolution aforesaid, we made arrangements with the
Doctor to live in his family, lecture for, and study with him. We gave the
first course of lectures upon Astrology ever delivered in this country, and on
each occasion Dr. B. examined one or more Nativities before the audience,
giving most wonderful tests of the accuracy with which the events of life can
be calculated by a knowledge of the influence and movements of the heaven-
ly bodies. For a time the undertaking went on swimmingly, and we began
to boast of victory.

"Don't be too sanguine," quoth the Doctor, "for you and I have some
evil aspects approaching which will be likely to tell against us."

The beginning of the year proved that he was right. All hands ill and
hard times generally. Then the Herald, the " satanic press," commenced
its villainous abuse of " 8 14 Broadway." The place was styled the "Ghoul's
Garrett," and all who came here denominated as infidels and blasphemers.
As for ourselves, we were described as "the chief ghoul of the den," "a
played-out bruiser," and a " used up prize fighter," together with other ex-

pressions equally flattering, and charteristic of a journal whose proprietor

has been cowhided through the streets, on sundry occasions, on occount of
the eloquence of his language applied to gentlemen who never injured him.

As might be expected, these puffs of the "satanic," brought a class of
rowdies to disturb our lectures, and for some weeks our prospects looked
gloomy enough. This was the beginning of trouble.



— — —

APPENDIX. 455

On the nth of February, the owner of the premises, evidently anxious
to drive the Doctor away, commenced stealing his signs, placards, bulletins,
door-plates, etc., which were placed at the door. In vain the Doctor remon-
strated. The landlord seemed possessed of a mania for sign stealing. He
is a queer genius, and as the public may be interested, as well as posterity,
in knowing who he is, we will say that the first two letters of his name is

Alexander Eagleson, and his place of business is No. 43 Fourth Avenue.
When Eagleson had stolen "in the neighborhood of twenty signs," as

he admitted to police officer Waldron, of the Broadway squad, Dr. B. pro-
cured a warrant and had him arrested. He was taken before Justice Dodge,
of Jefferson Market Police Court, and promptly discharged ! Three hours
later, Eagleson stole three more signs. The Doctor persisted in putting down
others as fast as they were stolen, and Eagleson persisted in stealing them as

fast as put down. This made lively times in the sign business.

On the evening of the day when he was so honorably acquitted by Justice
Dodge, Eagleson stole another sign, making the fourth for that day. This
time the Doctor concluded to try and capture the stolen property. But
Eagleson is a very enterprising man, and a firm believer in the maxim
" hold fast all you get." So, doubling his fist, when the Doctor approached, he
let fly, and the next moment there was an Astrologer rolling on the sidewalk.
Nothing daunted, the Doctor came to time, slightly under the influence of
Mars, yet restrained from committing murder through the benevolent Jupiter.

" Why don't you sue me again before Judge Dodge ?" sneered Eagleson.
To make a long story short, the Astrologer persevered, called in the

aid of a policeman, and finally the sign stealer and sign was captured, taken
to the station house and locked up for the night. Next morning charges of
theft, and assault and battery, were preferred, and upon hearing the evidence,
Justice Dodge bound him over to the Court of Sessions. This was on the
1 2th of March, but from that day to this (April 29th), not a word more has
been heard about it.*

Before Sol had culminated in the midheaven, on the day Eagleson was
bound over, his son-in-law, a simple-minded youth, with more brass than
brains, allowed himself to be persuaded into trying his hand at sign stealing.
The alarm was sounded by the boy on watch, and then the excitement com-
menced. The Doctor started at a 2.40 gait, without waiting for his hat,
while we followed at a more dignified pace.

" Stop thief! Stop thief ! Stop thief!"
Men ran; boys yelled; women screamed; dogs barked. Down Broad-

way ran the thief to Tenth street, then across to Fourth avenue, then down
to the Bible Honse, when he dodged into the place of Eagleson and locked
the door.

The crowd gathered, blocking up the sidewalk, every one asking
" What "

is it ? What is it ?

We happened to be blessed with a pretty good pair of lungs, and having
learned to speak in the open air by "stump speaking in the west," very
obligingly informed the crowd it was nothing only that Eagleson and his
thievish hirelings had been stealing Dr. Broughton's signs. Each new arrival
repeated the inquiry, and being a very good natured man, we^answered the
question over and over again.

* When Mr. Eagleson was bound over to appear at the Court of Sessions, Justice Dodge told
me that we would be notified when to appear against him, but we never were, although Mr.
Chaney and my wife went to the District Attorney's office a number of times to make inquiry when
we were to appear in court, and each time they were told that we would be notified. Mr. Eagle-
son was discharged, because we did not appear against him as complainants, as we were not noti-
fied, and I was arrested and had to give heavy bail, a*'d was sued for $10,000 damages, for false

imprisonment.



45 6 APPENDIX.

Several policemen collected and demanded admission. But the thief
refused to unlock the door. He then went into a back room, out of sight,
and the next moment such a chopping, hewing and slashing, we never heard.
Of course he was not chopping up the sign—" no, I guess not "—he was
only getting some wood ready for building a fire next morning. He's a very
innocent youth—the landlord's son-in-law—he is.

About this time two smart looking citizens forced their way through the
crowd and asked the officers if they wanted any help. The officers began
to explain how matters stood, when Eagleson himself came up and ordered
everybody away from his premises, cursing, swearing and blaspheming in a
style that would have put to blush even a " plug ugly."

" That's the man who stole Dr. Brougton's signs yesterday, and slept in

the station house for it last night ! " we exclaimed, pointing to the sign-
stealer.

This enraged him beyond description, and had we been within his reach,
it is not likely that we should have lived to write this article. As it was, he
gave vent to his insane wrath by pushing the two gentlemen before alluded
to, notwithstanding they had exhibited their badges as detectives.

"I don't care a G D n who you are!" shouted the infuriated
sign-stealer, giving them a violent push backwards.

Haifa minute later the sign-stealer might have been seen walking in the
direction of the Station House, politely attended by two detectives. He was
taken before a magistrate, " and on account of his ivell-knonvn respectability

,

instantly discharged 1 1 !" But the crowning act of his effrontery is yet to
be told. He preferred a complaint against the detectives for arresting him,
and on the examination boasted that he was worth $135,000. He also

availed himself of the opportunity to state under oath that "Dr. Broughton's
"

principal business was to blaspheme against God ?

But we must return to the crowd in front of the Bible House. When
Eagleson was arrested, his hopeful son-in-law, having got his wood chopped
for morning, unlocked the door, and in a voice tremulous with emotion on
account of his wife's father being again brought to grief, so soon after having
passed a restless night in a thief's cell, bitterly exclaimed :

" Now let him go," pointing to the retreating figure of his unhappy
father-in-law; "you got the wrong man—I'm the man, gentlemen."

" He's arrested for assaulting an officer," replied one of the policemen,
"and now we want the man who stole the sign."

"There's no sign here," added young hopeful, "and I forbid you search-
ing for it unless you have a warrant."

But we felt sure that we could identify the relics of the sign if allowed
a glance at the young man's pile of kindling wood, and by request of the
officers we went in.

" Who are you ? Go out o' here ! " cried the industrious wood chopper.

The officers concluded that we had better go out, and not feeling inclined

to contest the point, we amiably assented. We had not taken two steps
towards the door before the wood-chopper seized us by the collar. It must
have been a comical sight, he a "feather weight," pulling away at our 180
lbs. avoirdupois. We thanked him for his polite attentions, assuring him
that we could go very well without his assistance. But he was too much of
a gentleman not to lead us to the door, and by a gentle push, hinted that
our company was not agreeable to o*e of his caliber of brain.

The next act in the drama, which is still in danger of becoming a
tragedy, was for the Doctor to sue Eagleson in the Supreme Court, for five

hundred dollars damage on account of stealing his signs, service of which
was made March 22d.



APPENDIX. 457

Then came a change of programme. Evidently disgusted with the slow
progress he was making to put down Astrology by stealing signs, he
abandoned that mode of attack. Under pretence of leasing to the Fenians,
as a drill room, the floor over the one occupied by the Doctor, on the night
of that day that Eagleson was sued for five hundred dollars, there came such
a motly crowd, Rag, Tag and Bobtail, as has not been seen since the days of
Falstaff, and tumbling, swearing, thundering up the stairs, under the
leadership of the eminent wood-chopper, thev piled into the rooms overhead.

Fenians? It is a base slander against men who have devoted their lives
for redressing the wrongs of the oppressed, to charge upon them such out-
rageous acts of cruelty and barbarism as have been perpetrated here for the
last three weeks. No, they were not Fenians, but loafers, vagrants, thieves
and pickpockets, gathered up from the slums of the city, and ripe for any
outrage, provided they were filled with bad whiskey. Fenians, indeed ! We
venture there is not a Fenian in the United States who would not scorn to
associate with such rowdies, much less be a party to their acts of infamy.

It was evident that the wood-chopper had found his level at last, and he
was in his glory. Not satisfied with the infernal din made by himself and
motly crew, simply because Mrs. Broughton pushed the door to a little, so
that she could see down the stairs, he broke out—-"

" The fust one that shets that door agin, I'll cut their G d d
head off!"

He might have spoken more grammatically and less profanely—but
what can be expected from a wood-chopper ?

Shortly after, Mrs. B. went again to look down the stairs for the Doctor,
when the wood-chopper hurled a piece of board at her head, which would
no doubt have caused her death had it hit her.

But we need not dwell upon the details of this series of outrages which
have been continued to the present writing. In vain we have appealed to
the officers of the law for protection. We were all under evil aspects, and
no one would do anything.

One evening they came as usual, but remained until nearly two o'clock
in the morning. Several time's during the night they tried the doctor's
door, making threats like this :

" Let's break down "
the door and bring out the d d sons of b s !

Of course there was no sleep for the doctor nor his family, for we were
all in momentary expectation of beicg obliged to defend ourselves with our
lives against a horde of drunken rowdies, Mrs. B. had been suffering from
poor health all winter, and now, so great was the shock to her nervous sys-
tem that her senses wandered and her life was in peril.

One day after the persecutions had been contined for a week, the wood-
chopping son-in-law had the impudence to speak to Mrs. Broughton upon
the subject. He evidently came as a spy, to find out what he could, yet was
weak enough to let out what Eagleson and the " Satanic " will not thank
n im tr\ i"

" O, 'twont cost my father-in-law anything," exclaimed the simpleton,
"for he's done jest as Bennett's lawyers told him to, and they'll pay all
damages."

We will not pretend to say whether the fellow lied or not,- but if he did
lie, it is a remarkable coincidence that Galbrait/i, who has office in the Herald
building, answered to the case in behalf of Eagleson. If the wood-chopper
told the truth, then it looks very much like a conspiracy on the part of the



"

458 APPENDIX.

" M
Satanic and sign-stealer to either break the Doctor down, or " blackmail

him into buying peace from them. They may succeed in accomplishing the
former, and it there should be no change in the administration of justice in
the city, they probably will, but the Doctor will never pay one penny of
blackmail, not even to save his life.

During this " reign of terror," Mrs. Broughton had been the greatest
sufferer. Being obliged to keep her bed a great portion of the time; no rest
at night $ and the demoniacal noises and threats so preying upon her that
her reason failed at times, when she would utter cries and shrieks enough to
drive mad those who heard them. We remember her words on one
occasion :

" O, God ! the blood is running down my neck ! help ! help ! help *
!

One night the Doctor was obliged to get her out of bed and take her to
a friend's house, fearing the most serious consequences unless he did so.

On the 4th April Dr. B. sent the following notice to the landlord, which
explains itself.

814 Broadway, New York City, 1

April 1st, 1867. J

Alexander Eagleson—
Sir :—On the 23d ultimo, two of your workmen were seen to enter the water closet on the

second floor of these premises. where they remained for a short time, apparently having no particu-
lar errand there. But soon after, on trying my pumps, no water could be obtained, nor have we
been able to obtain any since.

When this visit of your plumbers to the water-closet on the second floor, and the discovery
soon after that my supply of water had been cut off, are taken in connection with your stealing my
signs ; your assaulting me upon the street, your arrest and confinement in the station house, your
son-in-law threatening to cut my wife's head off, and his hurling a piece of board violently at her
head, one of your plumbers striking her with a stick, the violence and outrages ot the drunken
rowdies who nightly assemble in your rooms over my head, their stealing my lamp and letter box,
their breaking down my gas brackets, their stealing my bell-coid and tassel ; their breaking up my
Sunday night meeting—when all these things are considered in connection with your savage perse-
cution, such as would disgrace any outcast from society, unless he could boast, as you do, of being
worth $135,000, every unprejudiced mind must conclude that you sent your plumbers upon an
errand of mischief, duly instructed to cut off my supply of water.

But whether it is tru^ or not that you sent them, being deprived of water is a serious damage
to me, for which I shall be obliged to look to you for satisfaction, unless you remedy the mischief
so that I can obtain water through my pump without delay.

The reply to this notice was an impudent letter, received April 6th,
enclosing a trumped-up account of $53.10, not one penny of which is due
from the doctor to him, either in law or equity.

* There is one part of the report of what we had to endure at 814 Broadway, which Mr.
Chaney left out and which I now insert in this note. For months every night or rather morning
during the time the meetings overhead were breaking up, and these rowdies were coming down
stairs, they would stop at our landing and use all kind of vile language, threatening to break into
our apartments and drag us out, and push against the door with such violence, that we expected
every moment it would give way and they would break in.

While these things were going on outside the door, Mr. Chaney and I were stationed inside,

each with a large axe (such as are used by lumbermen to chop trees) held over our heads. I gave
Mr. Chaney directions that if they broke' through, I would take the first man, he must take the

second, and I the third, etc. Had they broken in we would have sold our lives as dearly as
possible.

We had the door propped and barred bv a ladder and planks, and protected every way pos-

sible, besides it being locked and bolted. There was no going to bed for us until after all those

rowdies were gone, which was generally from two to three, and sometimes four o'clock in the

morning.
My wife being of a nervous temperament and the noise frightened the children, making them

scream, she often became delirious under this excitement, and imagined the rowdies, that the

authorities had engaged to annov us had succeeded in breaking into our apartments, and were mur-
dering her husband/children and herself. Hence at these times in her sleep, she would often

use the expressions that Mr. Chaney has above related, and would attempt to get out of bed to

run away. .

I give the above in explanation of my wife's say in her sleep: "Oh God! the blood is

running down my neck," etc. If I did not do so some of mv readers might think that Mr. Chaney
had been calling on imagination for material for his unparallel outrages, etc.



1

APPENDIX. 459

April 9th the Doctor sued him for damages done to his business by the
drunken rowdies aforesaid, their breaking up his lectures, etc., laying his

claim at five thousand dollars, which will not make Dr. B. whole, even if he
recovers the full amount.

On Sunday evening, April 14th, we were advertised to lecture on " Crea-
tion." As usual, the wood-chopping son-in-law came with his hireling horde,
and after continuing their noisy demonstrations for half an hour, headed by
the wood-chopper, they came down stairs and into the hall where we were
lecturing. This was part of their system of annoyances, running out and
in, and disturbing us by groans, interruptions, and so forth. We had hitherto
borne it with christian fortitude, but on this occasion our patience gave way.

Q.iietly asking the audience to excuse us for a moment, we walked to
the other end of the hall and ordered the wood-chopper out. He refused
to go. We said he should. He swore he wouldn't. We could not afford
to waste time in argument with the fellow, and so we took him by the collar.

He doubled his fist. We smiled derisively and said "go." He commenced
going. He was terribly disgusted, but kept going. Our argument was
irresistible, and he continued to go. When half way through the ante-room
he proposed to go himself if we would let him alone. We remembered his

courtesy the day he escorted us to the door, and not liking to be outdone in
politeness, even by a wood-chopper, we merely replied by tightening our
grasp. He continued going, and his legs had to hurry to keep up with his

body. When he was fairly beyond the outer door, we released our hold,
but instead of returning thanks for our civility, the unmannerly fellow
actually struck and kicked at us in a most furious manner. He had prob-
ably eaten something for dinner that laid hard on his stomach.

We returned to the hall and resumed our lecture, as though nothing had
happened. For a brief space of time all was quite overhead, and then the
noise began again. People passing through Broadway would stop and
listen, wondering if a pandemonium had been opened upon that fashionable
thoroughfare, for this was the third Sunday evening the outrages had been
kept up.

When a crowd of some hundred and fifty had been gathered, two police-
men went up to the pandemonium and arrested the wood-chopper and three
of his rag-tags, the others having made their escape by being down in our
meeting, where they remained very quietly. The rag-tags gave the names
of John Boyce, John Bowie and James Loomis, at the Station House, and
together with the wood-chopper were locked up for the night.

Next morning the case came before Justice Dodge. His Honor listened
to the complaint of the officers who made the arrests, and to the doctor's
account or the long continued outrages, and after rebuking the wood-
chopper and his rag-tags sharply, he threatened to send them to the Island,
if they repeated the offence,. They were honorably discharged 1 1

The reader may imagine that we have been amusing him by giving a
Sensational romance 5 and we admit that it seems impossible for our account
tj be true, But if it is false then we are liable to heavy damage, and to im-
prisonment , for uttering a malicious libel. We have given real names, and
some of the parties are well known in the city. Will they prosecute us?
We dare and defy them to do so. Our own name heads this article and we
take all the responsibility of the publication. We have had ten years exper-
ience as a practicing lawyer, and more than ten years as editor and author.
Therefore we pretend to know the law, and we not only know the facts, but
can prove a majority of them by more than a hundred witnesses.

The doctor has expended fully two thousand dollars in the purchase of
improvements on his premises, making other improvements and advertising



!

4^0 APPENDIX.

his business as a Physician and Astrologer. The lease has two years more
to run, and now when he is just ready to realize some return for his outlay
of money, he is compelled to encounter these fiendish persecutions, not for
any wrong committed, for he would never harm anyone, but simply because
he is an Astrologer, and Astrology is not popular.

Are we going back into the dark ages again ? It really seems so, when
there is no redress by law for such outrages, committed upon the most pub-
lic street of the metropolis of a continent. The doctor and his family may
be murdered here—we may share the same fate, for we are determined to de-
fend Astrology to the last—but this record shall live after us, a monument
of lasting disgrace to the Empire City."

SUPPLEMENT.
"Thursday, April 18th.—The reign of terror still continues. Last

night we attempted to lecture, and as usual, James McDermott commenced
his outrageous noises above us. Sometimes we were obliged to pause for a
minute, on account of the thumping, pounding and boisterous noises over-
head. The wood-chopper brought a speaking trumpet with him, and while
others were stamping and running about, he continued to sing, evidently
holding the trumpet near his mouth, so that the harsh, metallic detonations
sounded more like shrieks from the damned than a human voice.

The police were sent for and once more the wood-chopper came to
grief, being obliged to pass the night in the Station House. This morning
he was taken before Justice Dodge, and once more, honorably discharged! !

Mrs. Broughton is lying very low, with symptoms of brain fever. The
noises last night nearly drove her distracted. I hear her groans of anguish
while I write, and at the same moment I hear the voice of James McDermott
overhead, and hear him stamping and pounding on the floor.

When 1

will this "reign of terror ' cease? Verily, the doctor was a true
prophet when he said we should find plentv to do in defending Astrology.
But we shall not give up yet awhile. Astrology is undergoing its fiery

baptism, and this is no time for turning recreant to the cause."

I have inserted the above article, written by W. H. Chaney, and pub-
lished in the "Planet Reader," April, 1867, to prove to the reader what
Astrologers had to suffer thirty years ago. But there has come a change
over the whole community since that time, and if the change continues,
there is no doubt that a few years hence the ministers of the Gospel will be
preaching Astrological sermons on Sundays in the various churches and
saying, " That Jesus Christ was an Astrologer, and that he taught Astrol-
ogy to his Apostles," and for once they will actually preach the truth,

1

because if we can believe the apocrypha to the New Testament, it is
]

there stated that Christ learned the various significations of the planets and
the signs of the Zodiac, and the sextile, trine, square and opposition
aspects 5 and even a number of passages in the New Testament goes to

prove that he had a general knowledge of the signs of the Heavens. See
Matt, xvi., 2 and 3.

Astrology was just as true thirty years ago as it is to-day, and as it will

be thirty years hence. It is not Astrology that changes, but public opinion.

At the present day I think it would be very difficult for the judges of the

various courts, even in New York City, to prostitnte the law in their courts
as they did in 1867, without attracting the attention of the community.

In regard to Alexander Eagleson, and his son-in-law, James McDermott.
lam of the opinion that they were simplv the cat's paw in these persecutions,
and the real monkey that used their hands to pull the chestnuts out of the

,



APPENDIX. 45 j

fire was no other than James Gordon Bennett, proprietor of the New York
Herald, as at that time the Herald was devoting two or three columns every
Monday morning to reporting, or rather misrepresenting, the Sunday meet-
ings at 814 Broadway, and even the reporters of the Herald would bring
rowdies with them to create disturbances and break up the meetings. In
the latter part of these persecutione James McDermott came to me in my
office and told me, that James Gordon Bennett's lawyers had deceived his

father-in-law in telling him that they would protect him in stealing my
signs, and said he had a right to take them, and had a right to make all

the disturbance that Mr. Chaney has enumerated in the foregoing
account of these persecutions ; and that he and his father-in-law were
getting tired of it. I told McDermott all we wanted was to live peaceably.

It certainly was a bitter pill for Mr. Eagleson and his son-in-law, to
spend a number of nights in the prison cells. In the lawsuit in which they
sued me for §10,000 damages, Mr. Eagleson and Mr. McDermott had been
attending court over two months, every day except Sunday, before I was
notified by my lawyer, Charles Spencer, (as I had moved and Mr. Spencer
did not know my address.) After I was notified they had to attend every
day for six or seven weeks, as the late Judge McCunn was on the bench, and
he only tried about one law-suit a month. A number of names that were on
the docket were called off before the court commenced, and each had to
answer to their name and say " Ready." The witnesses in my case had to
attend court nearly two months before it came to trial. I believe it was tried
before Judge Garvin.

Besides entering suit for $500 against Mr. Eagleson, I also entered suit

for $5,000, and afterwards for $10,000 damages, but it was impossible to
get any of these cases in court.

There is no doubt the persecution we had to endure was the means of
shortening my wife's life, who has now lain in Greenwood a number of
years. Had these* persecutions occured in Cuba, Armenia, or in the
Island of Crete, the newspapers in the United States would have had
long accounts calling them religious persecutions and they would have
wanted the United States Government to send men-of-war to stop such
astiocities 5 but as they occured in the Metropolis of the Western Hemis-
phere, it was all right and we got all we deserved. Not a newspaper in

the country referred to them except the New York Herald. Any reader
that is interested in such literature may refer to the " Herald " published in
1866 and 1867. It is strange what venom the religious community dis-

played fifty or seventy five years ago, against Astrology, and its professors.
There is no doubt that James Gordon Bennett was influenced by the
Catholic clergy, the Herald being a Catholic paper.

It is strange what a change in regard to Astrology has come over the
community and the editors of the New York Herald since 1867. One of
the former editors of that paper has since studied Astrology under my tui-
tion, and has written ana* published much in the various newspapers and
periodicals on the science of Astrology, and is a firm believer in it, and is

practising it publicly. Even Mr. James Ingston one of the present editors
of the New York Herald has studied the science and has just published a
book on Astrology, calling it the "Gospel of the Stars, or the Wonders of
Astrology." The introduction to which is written by the chief editor of
the Herald, Rev. George H. Hepworth. In reviewing that book in the
Herald, they praise it by saying, " that it is the best book that has ever
been published on the Science of Astrology." Of late years Mr. Ingston
and " Asrael " have published much on the Science of Astrology in the
Herald. Mr. Ingston has even made application to myself for articles on



462 APPENDIX.

that science for that paper, which were furnished him and were published.*
Who knows but the present James Gordon Bennett may become an Astrol-
oger, and have to go through the same kind of persecutions that I had to
endure. Saul of Tarsus, according to the New Testament spent most of
his time in persecuting the early Christians, and yet afterwards became one
of the greatest advocates of Christianity, under the name of Paul the
Apostle and had to endure persecutions for Christ's sake.

Near the time the above persecutions were going on at 814 Broadway,
Prof. Henry Holembaek, who was at that time Mayor of Burlington city,

New Jersey, and was Professor of Materia Medica, at the Medical college
where I graduated, made me a friendly visit and in talking on the subject
of medicine and Astrology, made the following remark, " T do not
believe in Astrology, but I respect you all the more for believing in it, because
you stick to Astrology, when it is clearly to your disadvantage to do so."

No one could have been more opposed to Astrologv than Prof. Chaney,
before he became acquainted with me. He had the impression that the science
had been entirely exploded, and that any person who could read and write could
not possibly believe in Astrology. The first time he came into my office,

he looked at my library and made the remark, " Why, you don't believe in
Astrology "

! But becoming acquainted with me changed the whole current
of his life, and he has spent the last 30 years in reading, investigating,
writing and lecturing on that subject, and no doubt he will continue to
do so as long as he lives. He has published a number of books and pam-
phlets on the Science of Astrology, besides editing monthly periodicals
that treat altogether on that subject. He has also published an Astrological
Ephemeris of his own calculating besides republishing White's Ephemeris
from 1800 to 1875.

* Mr. James Ingston in his book on the " Wonders of Astrology,'' on page Jo, tells us :

"The services which a skilled Astrologer can render are various. He can tell those who con-
sult him the fortunate and unfortunate periods of their lives, whether wealth or poverty will be
their lot, whether they will be happy or unhappy in their married life, whether they will have
children or not, whether they will be successful or unsuccessful in speculation, whether they will
obtain legacies or marriage portions or not, whether they will have strong or weak constitutions,
whether they will be subject to diseases, and if so, of what nature, whether they will have many or
few enemies and friends, whether they will quarrel or live peaceably with their neighbors and kin-
dred, whether they will travel much or little, whether they will be in peril while traveling or not,
whether they will be successful in intellectual or manual labor and whether they will live to a good
old age or not. But this is not all. The astrologer can tell what trade or profession is most suit-
able for a person and what likelihood there is of success therein ; he can tell what manner of man
a woman will marry and what manner of woman a man will marry, and whether the two will live
happily together or be sundered by separation or divorce ; he can also tell whether the life as a
whole will be prosperous and happy or sad and unfortunate. The character, temperament and
intellectual tastes he can describe with a precision that will astonish those who have been led to
believe that star-readers are impostors and that Astrology is an invention of the devil.

" Young girls who desire to know their fortune in marriage, young men who are undecided as
to what profession or trade they shall adopt, fathers and mo;hers who are anxious as to the edu-
cation and health of their children, all, who are worried about money matters, the sick, who would
fain know whether they wiil recover their strength and the strong, whose duty it is to ascertain
whether any disease threatens them in the future—all these may rest assured that they will find
comfort in astrology. Aye, and so may all others, who honestly desire to know what the future
has in store for them. In the heavens is mapped out the entire life of every human being with all

itsjoys and sorrows, aH its tragedies and successes, all its incidents and changes both grave and
trivial, and the story there told in seemingly unintelligible language can be made clear to any one
who cares to hear it.''

Had there been such men as Mr. Ingston and " Asrael " editors of the New York Herald in
1866 and 1867, I do not believe that Mr. James Gordon Bennett could have influenced them to
write such articles against me and Astrology, as appeared in that paper during these years ; no
amount of money that Mr. Bennett might offer could have induced them to so prostitute their
talents and principles.

If the reader wishes to know what a change has come over the community in thirty years, let

him turn to the files of the New York Herald published in 1866 and 1867, and read the
* reports?" of the meeting at 814 Broadway, also to page 43 of this volume, and read what the
detective wrote to my patron after he had been robbing my mail.

Lord Beaconsfield had a saying: "The unexpected always happens." Who would have
thought, 30 years ago, that the editors of the Herald would have become Astrologers ?



;

APPENDIX. 463

Note continued from paragraph 624, page 283.

In these days the people never think of choosing a foi unate period for
laying the first stone, or as the newspapers call it, the " corner stone," and
which is often anything but the first stone. All they attend to is making
speeches, singing and praying; especially if the building is intended for
religious purposes, r>nd they never trouble themselves to choose fortunate
planetary influences, and good planetary hours for laying the first stone.

Some years ago I read an account in the New York Sunday papers of
laying the " corner stone" on Saturday afternoon of what was intended to
be a large church. That same day I went to see where the church was
to be situated; when I got there I found the church was more than half
built and the builders had left one corner, so that the person appointed to
lav the stone in that corner could say he laid that corner stone ; but instead
of it being the first stone of that building, it came nearer being the last.

When I read in the newspapers, the accounts of laying corner stones,
it is impossible to avoid smiling to think how people have perverted the
meaning of laying the first stone. But it becomes truly laughable when we
read the account of Andrew H. Greene going in a coach with a spade to
about 70th Street, in New York and " turning the sod" where it is intended
to commence digging for the foundation of the Bridge to cross the Hudson
River, and then driving to the Ferry and crossing the River to Weehawken,
turning another " sod " there, and then driving home. Had Andrew H.
Greene calculated the movements of the heavenly bodies, and chosen the
most propitious time for turning these sods, it is possible they might have
commenced building the bridge before this time.

We have another curious instance of Count De Lesseps, coming to this

continent from France, and turning the first sod of the Panama Canal,
on the Atlantic side, then riding by railway over to the Pacific coast and
taking a steam tug to the place of the other end of the intended canal.
But the sea being boisterous it was impossible for him to land, so he procured
some sand and turned it over instead of the " sod," on the steamer's deck

;

that was supposed to be the commencement of the digging of the Panama
Canal. He certainly must have chosen a very evil time to turn the " first sod,"
as the canal is not yet completed, and is never likely to be, and all those who
had anything to do with the digging of the Canal, are either in prison
or disgrace, or came to misfortune, besides bringing the whole French naticn
into disgrace and financial loss, and numbers of the most active men in the
undertaking fled their country or committed suicide to avoid imprisonment.

These things remind us so much of the imitation of monkeys, repeating
things they see their masters perform, that it is possible in some future age,
the readers of the history of these days will actually say, that the people who
lived in the last decade of the 19th century were a species of monkeys.
The various religious sects of the present day, all unite in talking and

preaching about the ignorance, superstition and wickedness of Astrologers
but where can the student find such unadulterated ignorance and supersti-

tion as that of Andrew H. Greene, and Count De Lesseps, turning the first

"sod" and the religious people laying the corner stone of a church that was
more than half built.

There is no doubt that more than nine tenths of all the present religious

ceremonies have had a similar origin as "turning the sod" or laying the
first stone of important structures, and these religious ceremonies have in

time been changed into singing, praying and speech making, instead of
calculating and observing the movements of the heavenly bodies, to find

when is the most fortunate time to commence these undertakings.



464 APPENDIX.

As what is termed laying the corner stone, is generally anything but the
first stone, I have seldom made an astrological calculation in relation to
the laying of these stones, or what is sometimes thermed "turning the sod,"
But I was interested in, and noticed the time of laying what is called the
"corner stone" of the "School of Theosophy"" by the Theosophical Cru-
saders who went around the World, spreading their new doctrines in every
country they travelled through. On their return to the United States
they stopped at Point Loma, San Diego, California, and Mrs. Katherine
Tingley of New York, laid the corner stone of their new School of
Theosophy, at or very near 2.45 P. M., Feb. 23d, 1897. I calculated the
chart of the heavens for that time, and for the longitude and latitude of
Point Loma. I find it would have been quite a difficult task for them to
have chosen a more unfortunate period for that purpose. There is no
question that the School of Theosophy will never be finished.* At the
time the first stone was laid, twenty six degrees of Cancer was on the
ascendant, in the horoscope, and the Moon, lady of that sign, was
just leaving a conjunction of Saturn and applying to a square of Jupiter
and the Sun, which were almost in exact opposition from the 3d house, to the
9th house (the house of science and learning.) Should the College building
ever be completed (which is almost an impossibility) and should they com-
mence to teach Theosophy, there will be nothing but quarrels about what
they shall teach and what they shall not teach.

.£=.1(0

Chart of the Heavens, February 23d, 1897, at 2.45 P. M. when the

Corner Stone of the School of Theosophy was laid, at

San Diego, California.

The above is the chart of the heavens of the layingthe first or corner stone
for the school of Theosophy and on page 289 are given the Astrological
rules and principles for laying the first stone of any special building.

* The above was written and in type several'months before I saw the article in the New York
Sun, referred to on page «



7

APPENDIX 465

How to Calculate a Horoscope for Point Loma, San Diego.

662 If the student is not in regular practice in erecting charts of the

heavens, for any longitude or latitude ; he had better read over again

very carefully "Rule to Set a Map of the Heavens," on pages 142,

143, 144, 145 and 146, before attempting to calculate the foregoing
chart of the heavens, and after he has refreshed his memory, then he
must get "Raphael's Ephemeris " for 1897, and look for the 23d of
February of that year, and on a line with it, under the heading of
"Sidereal Time," he will find 22 hours and 14 minutes; he will add
the 2 hours and 45 minutes to that sum making in all 24 hours and 59
minutes. As 24 hours completes the day, he will reject the 24, and
look in the table of houses, for the latitude of Point Loma, San Diego.
In order to do so he will have to get a geography of the United States,

which contains a map of California, and look for the latitude of Point
Loma, San Diego, and he will find it is near 33 north latitude. The
only table of houses that I know that is printed for every even degree c r

north latitude from 22 to 56 is that of Joseph G. Dalton's.

663 Then look in Dalton's table of houses for 59 minutes on top line

of the 4th page, and in the last set of columns of that page, on the top
line of that table, he will find 58 minutes and 57 seconds

; and on the
right of these figures in the top column he will find °p Aries 1 6°, which
he will place on the cusp of the 10th house, and then if he draws his

hand down on the left hand column, until he gets to figure 33 ; then
carry the figure on that line until he gets to the last right hand column
of the page he will find 21 and 3' of & Taurus, which he will place
on the cusp of the 11th house; and on a line with the last figures he
will find 26 o/ of n Gemini in the next column, which he will place

on the cusp of the 12th house, and next on that line 26 and 57'
of® Cancer, which he will place on the ascendant or the first house;
in the next column he will find 19 of S\ Leo, which he will place on
the 2d house, and on the last column, he will find 14° /

S of TTJ2. Virgo,
which he will place on the cusp of 3d house ; and then he will commence
to copy the southern signs and the degrees and minutes on the opposite
houses in the blank chart.

664 After the student has inserted the 12 signs in the blank chart,

he will get his map of California again, and look for the longitude of
Point Loma, and he will find it near 117°, west longitude from Green-
wich, England

; he will then take that 1 and multiply it by four, as
1

there are four minutes in time, to one degree of longitude, which makes
468'; he divides that 468 by 60, the number of minutes in an hour, and
it gives 7 hours and 48 minutes; therefore the longitude of Point Loma
is 7 hours and 48 minutes earlier in time than London, and the student
must make his calculations for the longitude of the planets and the Sun
and Moon which occurs in London at 12 o'clock noon, as if they were
4 hours and 12 minutes, A. M. at Point Loma. In addition he must
add the 2 hours and 45 minutes, (as the corner stone was laid at 2

hours and 45 minutes in the afternoon ;) to the 7 hours and 48 minutes
making 10 hours and 33 minutes. He must then calculate how far the



466 APPENDIX.

Sun and Moon and planets will travel in 10 hours and 33 minutes, and
add that sum to the longitude of the planets and Sun and Moon given
in the Ephemeris on Feb. 23d, 1897, at noon in London.

665 The easiest way to make these calculations is to see in the Ephe-
meris how far each planet travels in 24 hours, and divide that sum by
2 to find how far they travel in 12 hours, and add the remainder to the
longitude of the planets as they are printed in the Ephemeris, and then
deduct the distance that each one will travel in one hour and a half, and
the student will get very close to the exact longitude of each planet.*

If the student turns to page 288 paragraph 625, he will find the " Elec-
tion for laying the first stone of a building," and will there see that the old
Astrologers had serious objections to the Watery triplicity particularly to
Pisces and Scorpio 5 but Cancer is objectionable, because it is unsafe to
erect a building on the water. Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces on the ascend-
ant, or the Moon in these signs, (particularly Cancer as it is a moveable
sign) is very evil for laying the first stone. The rule is to have the Moon,
either in a fixed sign, or have a fixed sign on the ascendant and the Moon
in good aspect to that sign. But if the student turns to the chart of the
heavens for the laying of the first stone of the School of Theosophy, he will

find Cancer is on the ascendant, and the Moon lady of that sign is within
2 of the conjunction of Saturn j also just leaving a conjunction of Uranus,
which are two very evil afflictions to that luminary.

The old authors on Astrology all agree that a planet or the Moon
leaving a conjunction, square or opposition of one or more evil planets in a
horary question, laying the first stone, or in a nativity, is more unfortunate
or weaker than a planet applying to an evil aspect, as they say that the
Moon or the planet leaving the evil aspect is so completely saturated with
the evil influence of the planet that it is leaving, that it takes it a long time
to overcome that influence. They compare it to a miller whose clothes and
everything about him gets so impregnated with flour, that if he leaves the
mill, it takes a long time for him to get rid of it} it has so penetrated into
his clothing.

In all charts of the heavens, the old Astrologers say : whether in a time of
birth, or a question, or laying the first stone of a building never have the Moon
afflicted. They say : It is better to have the lord ofthe ascendant afflicted than
the Moon." The Moon is not only afflicted in the foregoing horoscope,
but it is also lady of the ascendant, which causes it to be doubly afflicted.

The Moon after leaving a conjunction of Uranus and Saturn is making a

square of Jupiter, lord of the 9th, (house of science and religion,) and also

a square of the Sun, and the Sun and Jupiter are in exact opposition. The
Moon is also making an opposition of Neptune and Mars. The only good
aspect the Moon makes is a sextile of Mercury, but Mercury is setting. It

is a particularly evil horoscope for the laying of the first stone, as Venus,
although in the midheaven, is seriously afflicted on account of being in its

detriment and in square to the ascendant. The ancients say, " let the fortu-
nate planets, Jupiter and Venus be in good aspect to each other or to the
degree ascending." Jupiter could hardly be more afflicted, and has no aspect
to the ascendant, and Venus is in square to the degree ascending.

* There is no doubt the stone was laid within a very few minutes of 2,45 P. M., as I asked
a gentleman who was present at the laying of the corner stone, and he told me when lie arrived
at the gate of the grounds he looked at his watch, which lie set by Standard or San Francisco
time, and it was 25 minutes to three ; and he calculated it would take 10 minutes to walk the short
distance, and for Mr. Hargrove to deliver the speech which he made previous to laying the stone.



APPENDIX. 467

What a pity it is that people do not pay attention at the present day to
these rules and principles which have been known and used to such great
advantage by the ancients for thousands of years.

My father had a saying that " experience is a dear school, but fools
will learn at no other." Unfortunately there are some people who will not
even learn at the school of experience, and those fools are generally known
by the name of" Christians."

I learn from the newspapers that the' School is going to be completed,
and used as a Sanitarium. The building will be unfortunate as a Sani-
tarium, and the patients who attend there are more likely to die than to get
well, as Jupiter, lord of the 6th, (the house of sickness) is in close opposition
to the Sun in the 8th, (the house of death,) and the Moon, lady of the
ascendant makes a square of both. The building will not be a paying
institution as a Sanitarium, as the Sun, lord of the 2d house, (the house of
money) is so afflicted by the opposition of Jupiter, lord of the 6th and 9th
houses, (the houses of science and sickness.)

The following appeared in the " New York Sun," Tuesday, Dec. 28th,

1897, under the head of " Theosophists all Awry."
"There is, in the words of one of the 'advanced enthusiasts of the Tlieosophical Society, a

violent row' in the organization, manifesting itself, botli here and abroad. It is said to be due to
dissatisfaction with Mrs. Kittie Tingley, the head of the esoteric body here. There are people
who do not wholly approve of Mrs. Tingley's high place in the society, and according to the story,
their number is growing so fast that already two esoteric Presidents have resigned, and the resig-
nation of a third is expected.

"The information received yesterday from London included a strong intimation of the intention
of one of the other European Presidents to resign shortly. Complaints are made that the society
in this city no longer studies Theosophy, and that it has been converted into a charitable organiza-
tion, the w >rk of which is carried on in the name of the ' International Brotherhood League.'

"Mrs. Tingley's pet project, tke 'School for the Revival of the Lost Mysteries of Antiquity,'
it is said, has so far fallen into desuetude that the building which was only just begun at Point Loma,
near San Diego. Cal., is to be completed and turned into a Sanitarium by Dr. Loren A. Wood,
formerly of Westerly, R. I., to whom it has been turned over. Dr. Wood was on the recent cru-
sade of the Tingley Theosophists. Mrs. Annie Besant's proselyting here last spring has begun to
tell. Branches of the Society in different cities have deserted the body whose esoteric head Mrs.
Tingley is, and have joined themselves to that fostered by Mrs. Besant. The branch at Lynn,
Mass., Mrs. Tingley's former home, has gone over to the Besant enemy."

In ancient times the people not only chose the most propitious times accord-
ing to the planetary influences for "turning the sod," layingthe first stone, or
driving the first pile for the erection of important structures, but they actually
built those structures on the principles or order of the planetary system.

For instance there is a model made of the Tower of Babylon in the
National Museum, at Washington, D. C, which if the student examines he
will find the walls of the first story were painted black, the color of
Saturn, the second a deep orange, the color of Jupiter 5 the third, red,
Mars's color \ the fourth gold, the Sun's color ; the fifth white, the color of
Venus 5 the sixth blue, the color of Mercury j the seventh silver, the Moon's
color. A picture of which the reader will find on page ,

There is a printed page pasted on the model which states that the " Tower
of Babel " was originally painted these colors when first built. Not only
that, but in late excavations in that country they have discovered two othei
structures, one underneath the other, and near where the Tower of Babel
stands at the present day, each of these structures were built with seven
stories, similar to the Tower of Babel. The deepest or most ancient of these
buildings had been the most perfect in its architecture and construction.

There are cuneiform writings on these structures, giving certain astro-
nomical calculations which prove beyond question, that the most ancient of
these structures is over 9,000 years old, or more than 3,000 years older than
the Mozaic History of the Creation of the world.



468 APPENDIX.

S " 5 £ S

= o 2 Stj

. -a c i-
j;

to • 1-3 J
J=. >

(i) u u
££ .fl re • _IZ
U
is U
T3 a
13
C <

3
1 5

re u
u OJ c/

re .a
<*
n re

X>
C/J re

E U
p)

"O - — v
"O

_re
re -a re

o

.= •= 3 g c t:

^s.i £ a 5 s
re « —

C ij="<3
X re i- c ~<

i) re «3

> 4)
1) u

' J
< 1, 1)tj (J (J

.* <"^- „, C ^ **
- re ^ « m^= -
X W o > uiH 5

p^

c
J § l.3|Vc 2
w « s^ re re J=-5

1 t, « = «»- «
(X i ys re-o-o E
<

s us Lo bui the
and

5
leyjoume make the to

fa
scatter

X ghly,

O off
H s nd

* ~ ?*< ,

r>v
w

~ T3 T5 "
<IJ

o
h <U •— c -i C T3

u_£ ^ «*~

re <l> re w o s
3.M S <u re

spa-- "X
—re - o >- JH73

B) ^
' « 3

JJ s «
s <o £ «
O „ w

uo
*w5

jj O u

» 2 . 5 B-=

:C
o u O O

o
V >- re JZ, — rr

O O 5 1?
re

P.2 ^ O .

*'.-*"
<u T3 i!

•52re|S-

.•5-° E §^
re 22 «^3 o
en 3 u" o



—

APPENDIX. 469

Description of the Tower of Babel.
The drawing on the opposite page is from the model of the Tower of Babylon in the National

Museum, at Washington, D. C, and copied from the New York Sunday Journal of October

17, 1897. The model was made by Mr. Palmer, and conforms to the theory of the Tower by
Sir Henry Rawlinson, the great Orientalist, who gives the dimensions of the Tower as

follows :

" The first was a stage or platform of crude brick raised a few feet above the level of the plain.

The first story of the Tower or basement was an exact square of 272 feet each way, and 25 feet in

perpendicular height ; the second story was 230 feet each way, and 26 feet high ; the third story

was x8o feet square each way, and 26 feet high ; the fourth was 146 feet square, and 15 feet high ;

the fifth 104 feet square, and 15 feet high ; the sixth 62 feet square and the 7th, 20 feet square, and
both were 15 feet high.

" Concerning the origin of the "Tower of Babel," little is known save from the Bible. The
historian Herodotus mentions it, and there are also certain cuneiform inscriptions on some of the

bricks which give the name of Nebuchadnezzar as the person who finished the building of the

Temple. These inscriptions state that it was commenced by a former king, but that king never

finished it. It was said to have been built in honor of the Babylonian god, called Nebo or Nabu.
There were seven stories of this temple ; each story was painted a particular color, each color being

governed by one of the seven planets. The lowest story was painted black, the color of Saturn ;

the next story above was painted a deep orange, the color of Jupiter ; the next red, the color of

Mars ; next the Sun, a golden color ; next white, Venus' color ; next Mercury's color, blue ; and
the top story the Moon's color, a silvery or kind of glistening color." New York Journal.

The above colors are those which are said to be ruled by the planets at the present day
in the books of "Modern Astrology," The Tower gives the color of Venus as white, but

in books of Modern Astrology the color given is light blue or light sky color ; all the other colors

correspond or nearly so. In Raphael's Horary Astrology, on page 53, the colors there given

as ruled by the planets, are as follows: That of Saturn rules black ; that of Jupiter green spotted

or ash color ; Mars red or scarlet ; Sun saffron or yellow; Venus lightish blue; Mercury gray or

buff-color; Moon white or cream, but the Moon also governs silvery or glistening color ; these

colors of the planets vary somewhat when they are in different signs of the Zodiac, and it depends
on what sign the planet is in in regard to the various shades, and it also depends on what house it

is in, as that sometimes varies the shade or color that the planets rule.

There is no doubt that all of these stories dedicated to their respective planets, were com-
menced when these planets were in the most fortunate positions in the Zodiac, and in good
aspects to other planets, especially to what are called the two fortunate planets, jjupiter and
Venus.

The Tower of Babel may have been used as a fortification against the enemies of the Babylon-

ians, as the extra Tower built on the top of the seven stories, which is shown in the small cut

underneath the large picture, and which was afterwards added to the top of the original Tower by
some Babylonian king whose name is not mentioned; this appears to be indicated by the top

Tower, and it also might have been used as a lookout for watching the approach of enemies of

the Babylonians.

Antiquity of Astrology Proved by the Tower of Babel.

The ruins of the ancient "Tower of Babel" prove unquestionably
that Astronomy and Astrology were well understood and practised over 9,000
years ago, and that the people conducted their business and controlled the
various events of life by the principles and rules of these sciences. It is also
stated that the bricks that the Tower of Babel was built with, even at this

day, are in a good state of preservation, or at least people who have been to
Babylon and examined them make this statement, and it is more than 4,000
years since the latter building was finished by Nebuchadnezzar. Were
bricks that buildings are now made of exposed to the action of the weather,
either in England or the United States, only for a few hundred years, they
would crumble to dust.



470 APPENDIX.

Continued from page 174.

I wish the reader to understand that I have no particular spite against
the editor of the New York Times, as I honestly believe that he is not any
more prejudiced against Astrology than most editors in New York, only
he happened to lay himself open to criticism at the present time, which has
caused me to give more attention to him than to other editors.

Had Mrs. Maud S. sent her daughter's time of birth to an editor of
almost any other newspaper in the United States, or for that matter to any
newspaper in Europe, they would have given her a similar answer to the one
she received from the " New York Times," * and no matter how much these
editors might differ in politics, or on the labor or money question, they
would all agree that calculating horoscopes was a "debasing superstition"
and whould have expatiated on the "harmful influence" on children's
minds" of such calculations. If she had sent her daughter's time of birth
to all the Christian Ministers in Europe and America, no matter how much
they might quarrel or disagree on religious doctrines, or of the meaning of
any passage of the Old or New Testament, they would have been unan-
imous in saying that calculating horoscopes was a debasing superstition, and
in denouncing the Astrologer as an impostor or a fraud, and in consigning
him to everlasting torment. It would have been the same if she had sent
the time of birth to any lawyer, or judge on the bench in any Christian
country of the world, no matter how much they might differ on law points,
quarrel and call each other hard names, they would all have been of one
opinion on the merits, or rather the demerits of Astrology; and no matter
how many times the judges reversed each other's decisions on other matters
they would have all decided alike when it came to their judgment on
Astrology.

I will even go further and state that if Mrs.' Maud S. had sent her
daughter's time of birth to the doctors of the United States, Canada or
Europe, they would all, with very few exceptions, (and those exceptions are
doctors who are now using Astrology in the practice of medicine,) if they
had answered her letter have agreed that Astrology was a "de-basing
superstition," no matter how much they quarrel among themselves, and
call each other quacks, frauds and impostors on account of their not
agreeing on any particular school of "pathy." Yet, if Mrs. Maud S.'s

daughter had been taken sick, and she called in twenty or thirty of those
same doctors, each and every one of them would have diagnosed the case
differently, and each would contend that she had a different disease or com-
plaint, and no two of them would have agreed in the treatment of any one
symptom, and each would have put her under different, or almost opposite
treatment, and diet, and it would have been the same if those twenty doctors
had all graduated from the same college, and had been taught by the same
professors, and yet we talk about the science of medicine.

But if she had sent her child's time and place of birth to twenty different

Astrologers, they would have all agreed, or come very near agreeing in re-

gard to the child's diseases or complaints in the different periods of her life,

and the parts of the body which would be affected at those times, thirty or
forty years before these periods of sickness would take place.

* Although when the Editor of the New York Times, was writing the criticisms on Astrology,
the New York Sunday News was publishing three or four columns of horoscopes each Sunday ; the
Pittsburg (Pa.) Dispatch from twelve to fourteen columns each week ; the Pittsburg Leader three ;

columns; the Cincinnati Inquirer about six columns ; the Louisville Courier Journal three col-
umns; the Illustrated American was publishing two pages; the Manchester Mirror (N. H.) was
publishing three columns ; the Harrisburg (Pa.,) Telegraph one column per week. Besides there
were a number of other papers publishing horoscopes, during 1893, 1894, 1895 and 1896.



APPENDlfc. 47!

tf Mrs. Maud'S. had sent the time of birth to all the Astrologers in the
world, and those Astrologers had studied the science so as to be proficient,
and had sufficient practice in reading nativities, these horoscopes of the girl

would have agreed in almost every particular ; the same as if a thousand
painters had painted the likeness of the girl, or a thousand photographers
had taken her picture with their cameras, those pictures would have agreed
with each other 5 one might have given a darker or a lighter shade to some
particular part, or made some particular feature come out a little more
prominent in one picture than in another, but any number of persons who
had looked at the whole of them and had known the girl, would have
fid each was a true picture. Had Mrs. Maud S. sent her daughter's time
of birth, and named the place where she was born, also the race, to a
thousand Astrologers, (if that number could be found) each and every one
would have drawn or calculated exactly, the same chart or map of the
heavens ; or if she had the map of the heavens calculated by some Astrol-
oger and then sent a copy of the same map to the nine hundred and ninety-
nine, and not have stated when or where she was born, those thousand
Astrologers would each give the same reading, almost word for word.
Some of them might dwelt a little more on one particular part of her
personal description or on some particular feature of her mental or moral
character, or the special diseases she would be most liable to, and they
might have varied slightly in regard to her future husband, her married
life, her children, domestic happiness, or unhappiness, business, etc. But
any person who was acquainted with the girl, after they read her horo-
scope, would all say, that this is the horoscope of Mrs. Maud S.'s daughter,
and not the horoscope of any other person, unless that person was born at
or near the same time, and in or very near the same place, and in that case
the only difference would be in the parentage, heredity, environment, sur-
roundings or training, and education.
We cannot overcome or change the planetary influence at the time of

birth. To give an illustration, when the position of the planets in horoscopes
are evil or unfortunate for anv particular mental quality, say music, no
amount of education or training in music will ever make a musician of that
person. It is the same when the planets are evil in regard to any other
faculty or quality of the mind or body. You might as well attempt to
teach a person to see, who is born blind, or to hear, who is born deaf.

Therefore the reader will at once see the great advantage the study of
Astrology will be to the whole human family, and especially to the young
of both sexes. Three fourths of the rising generation are put to trades,
occupations and professions for which they are altogether unfit, and in which
it is impossible for them ever to r.iake a success.

Most of the misery, poverty and degradation is the result of these mis-
takes, and they could be avoided by having the child's horoscope calculated
by a competent Astrologer, and by following his advice and instructions.

To give an illustration and proof that all Astrologers agree in the
principles and practice of Astrology, I copy the following from an article in
the "Penny Magazine," New York, for May, 1897, called "Reading the
Stars," by " 1

Azrael, ' a former pupil of mine, and who was formerly one
of the editors of the Nenv York Herald. He was also at one time, on the
Evening Telegram. On page 20, he says : "Given the birth hour, and the
place of birth of any individual anywhere, a qualified Astrologer will,
without peradventure, delineate his or her nature and characteristics and the
leading events of his or her life without important error. And if the same
data be presented to different Astrologers in New York, London, Calcutta
or Melbourne, every one of these will give the same facts exactly, only



472 APPENDIX.

clothed in different language. Just as any such Astrologer will take a
horoscope, or chart of the heavens already cast, knowing nothing but the
sex and race of the person, and will read off therefrom the nature, ability,
propensities intellectual qualifications and major events of the life, from the
relative positions and configuration of the planets, as though it were an open
page in a known language."*

"In a brief and superficial article little more can be said. But this I
say; that Astrology, as a science and an art, is true; that it can do what it

promises; that it will submit to any conceivable test; that it is not contrary
to free will, nor to true religion, nor to exact science; that it is the most
fascinating of studies, and absolutely the most valuable and useful to man-
kind of all the arts."

I have given the above as an example of the experience of an Astrologer
who has only had a few years practice in this fascinating science. If
" Azrael M

lives, his interest in Astrology will increase as he grows older.
Astrology is the only science or knowledge in which the opinions of those

who are the most ignorant on the subject are accepted. In all other sciences
or professions the opinion of those who have had the most experience and
practice carry the most weight, and is generally the most convincing to all

sensible persons. Even in the practice of medicine, a science in which
there are so many different systems or " pathies," and which changes almost
as often, as the fashion in ladies' bonnets and dresses, those physicians
who have the most practice, have the most attention paid to them, and can
charge the highest fees. An uncle of mine, Dr. Mark Broughton, at a
trial in the York Assizes, in England, was the means of saving a young
woman from being executed, by being able to swear that he had more than
forty times the number of accouchements than the doctor on the opposing
side. That evidence decided the jury in bringing in a verdict of not guilty.
But had the jury known that my uncle made use of the science of Astrology
in his every day practice of medicine, it is more than probable the opposing
lawyer would have taken exceptions to his evidence, and asked the judge to
rule out his testimony.

It must appear to the reader, that if all doctors had to agree to study
Astrology, instead of agreeing in condemning it without any knowledge or

* As " Asreal " says given the time and place of birth, the sect and race of the individual to
any number of Astrologers, they will all read the horoscope nearly alike, only clothing it in
slightly different language. Any number of persons who study the science of Astrology will express
themselves in a similar manner as "Azrael." This cannot be said of any other of the learned
professions.

About two years ago a reporter of " New York Press," went around to a number of clairvoy-
ants, fortune-tellers, card-cutters, mind-readers, spiritualists, palmists, phrenologists mesmer-
ists, etc., (all of which he called "Astrologers,") in New York City, and that paper devoted nearly a
whole page to the interviews, and because the professors of these various "isms " did not all agree
exactly in their statements, the "Press" insisted they should all be arrested and sent to States
Prison. Had the same reporter gone to all the different trades in New York, such as shoe-makers,
hatters, tailors, shirt makers, underwear and stocking makers, and paid each $500, and because
they did not all make him a hat, a pair of shoes or a shirt etc., would the reporter claim all the
followers of these trades were impostors, and declare that thev shou'd be sent to States Prison.
There is more difference between the various systems of what is called fortune tellers than there is

in the above named different trades.
The editor of the " Press " knows that there are numbers of people who have gone around to

different doctors, and all of the same school, (Alopathy,) and yet these doctors give the patient a
different disease, and they all prescribe different and opposite treatment and medicine, and yet they
are all taught in the same schools and have the same text books to go by. This has been tried
over and over again by" Nellie Ely "and numbers of others.

What a wonderfully happy family we have of the professors of ths Christ'an religion and yet
they all have the Bible for a text-book, and Christ for their guide, and constantly consign each
other to eternal torment, and would have gone on burning one another alive at the stake even to the
present day, if it was not for the infidels stopping them. The lawyers, judges and legislators are
no better, and the politicians are the worst of all.



APPENDIX. 473

evidence on the subject, it would produce more harmony among them, and
there would be fewer systems of the practice of medicine, and the number
of patients who come to untimely deaths would rapidly decrease.

Some years ago there came into existence several new games, which
attracted public attention, and for a time they were the fad for almost every-
body. One was the "Fifteen puzzle/' another the "Cows in the clover,"
and the third was putting the " Pigs in the Pen." The latter so absorbed
the public mind, that even a majority of the Senators, at Washington, if we
can believe the daily newspapers, spent most of their time in the Committee
rooms in trying to solve this puzzle, instead of attending to their duties
for which they were receiving large salaries.

I know people who spent months trying to solve the "fifteen puzzle,"
and could not do it j others tried to put the "Pigs in the Pen" in as few
seconds as possible. If they learned to solve the "Fifteen puzzle" every
time, what good would it have done them, or would it have been any
advantage to them. Yet I am not aware that there was a single news-
paper, or minister of the gospel, or lawyer, judge or legislator, that ever
uttered a single word against people spending their time in such useless
occupations, or about such studies being a " debasing superstition," or about
the " mournful incompletensss of modern civilization." Yet it will not take
any more study, or as much time to become a fair Astrologer as it did to
solve the " Fifteen puzzle." When the student has studied Astrology, he
has learned something that will be of every day use to himself, and to
his friends or acquaintances, as long as he lives, and will do more to
enlarge and develop his mental faculties, than any other study he could be
engaged in, and it will be the means of bringing more happiness, and
avoiding more misery than anything else, to say nothing of the profit or
money it may bring them, notwithstanding all the abuse and malicious
slander that the editors of the Ne<w York Times, and other newspapers may
heap upon it in addition to the slanders that nearly all Christian Ministers
of the Gospel have piled on it and its professors, and the laws which the
Legislatures in Christian countries have enacted to crush it, its advocates
and its practitioners.

Their object is to keep the people in ignorance but my desire is that the
reader apply himself with all diligence, in learning to erect a chart of the
heavens for any geographical latitude and longitude, and for any year,
month, day of the month, and hour and minute of the day, and learn to read
it like reading a book. It is to enable the student to calculate charts of the
heavens, and to read them, that I have published the" Elements of Astrology."
and to enable him to prove for himself, by his own horoscope and those of
his friends, the truth or falsity of the science, and not let the ministers of the
Gospel, newspaper editors, lawyers, doctors, judges or encyclopaedias form his
opinions for him j but learn to judge on all these matters for himself; he
no doubt then will find that all these men know less about the various
religions, sciences, politics and laws that they are preaching, writing, and
talking about, and in which they differ so widely than they do about Astrol-
ogy, which they are so unanimous in condemning. I will conclude this
section in the words and advice of Longfellow :

" In the world's broad field of battle, Foot-prints that perhaps another
In the bivouac of life Sailing o'er life's solemn main,

Be not like dumb driven cattle, A forlorn, shipwrecked brother,
Be an hero in the strife. Seeing shall take heart again.

The lives of great men all remind us Let us then be up and doing,
That we can make our live's sublime, With a heart for any fate,

And departing leave behind us Stiil achieving, still pursuing,
Foot-prints on the sands of time. Learn to labor, and to wait."



READ AND REFLECT.
» — • -» «

Of all sciences which have at any time engaged the attention
of the world, there is not one of which the real or assumed principles are
iess generally known, in the present age, than those of Astrology. Among
a thousand persons who now treat the mention of this ancient science
with supercilious ridicule, there is scarcely one who knows distinctly what
it is he laughs at. Such contented ignorance, in persons, too, sufficiently

informed in other respects is the more extraordinary, since Astrology has
sustained a most conspicuous part throughout the history of the world, even
until comparatively recent days. In the East, where it first arose, at a period
of very remote antiquity, it still, even now, holds sway. In Europe, and in

every part ot the world where learning had " impressed the human soil,"

Astrology reigned supreme until the middle of the 17th century. It entered
into the councils of princes it guided the policy of nations ; it ruled the daily

actions of individuals, and physicians who were not well versed in this science,

were not deemed competent to practice their profession. All this is attested by
lhe records of every nation which has a histony.

-:o:-

ABQmiNlIBIMMDAJEi 1WAI1|
OR THE

Ancient Botanic Practice ofMedicine Revived
BY

Dr. L. D. BROUGHTON, 68 So. Washington Square, N. Y.

Graduate of the Eclectic Medical College,

Of THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA,

AND

Editor of "The Eclectic Medical Record," of the State of N. J,

Invalids whose afflictions have been pronounced incurable by
the old school practice, have been perfectly restored to health by Herbs under
planetary influence. The Art has been supposed to be lost, but its restoration

is certain, since minerals and other unnatural remedies have sent multitudes to

untimely graves. Ignorance, which always goes hand-in-hand with blind, heaven-
defying prejudice, may stand aloof. Planetary influence over vegetation has
Bible authority, the laws of Nature, and the practice of the greatest physicians

the world ever knew; such as Hippocrates, Galen, Culpepper, &>c, <2rY. Astrology
and Medicine were ever connected by the master minds of honest philosophy
and medicine in by-gone days.



The Opinions of Eminent Ancient Physicians

Hippocrates, the father of medicine, " declares that the man who did not
well understand Astrology, was rather deserving to be called a fool than a phy-
sician."* Galen "declared Anatomy to be the right eye of physic and Astrology
its left ; for such is the influence of the sun, moon and stars, especially the planets
upon the human body, or terrestrial bodies." Culpepper, in his British Herbal,
says "

: that those who study Astrology, are the only men who are fit to study
physics, physic without astrology, being like a lamp without oil" In short it is

impossible for any physician to foretell the various changes of diseases, the
"crisis," or "climactric periods," etc., etc., without a knowledge of Astrology.
When every child is born, the germs of the various or different diseases.it will
suffer from through life, and the parts of the body which will be affected, are
impressed on it by the heavenly bodies, and can be foretold or pointed out by
the Astrologer. Also the different moles, marks, or scars, which any person
ma)f have in any part of their body. And the physician who undertakes to treat
a difficult case of sickness without any knowledge Astrology, is equally as
criminal as the captain who should attempt to guide a vessel across the Atlantic
without a knowledge of Astronomy or Navigation. And the time will come
when this will be the general opinion formed by the public of physicians who
are ignorant of Astrology.

The following Questions may be correctly ascertained by the science of
Astrology, in conjunction with Astro-Medical Botany:—If the sick party will
recover or die of the present sickness ; if recover, the time they will begin to
amend ; what part of the body is afflicted or diseased ; what has been the cause
of the sickness ; when the sick person has had any particular changes, either
favorable or the reverse, also what kind of Treat7?ient and Medicine would be
best adapted for the sick person. All these points can be definitely ascertained
by the above named Sciences ; either by personal application, or by letter from
the sick person, stating the correct time and sex and place of birth, and without
any other question being asked of the sick party.

N. B. All forms of Nervous and Chronic Diseases successfully treated by
Electricity, Nature's true remedial agent.

Ladies suffering from Prolapsus Uteri, Leucorrhcea and other Uterine
complaints, immediately relieved and speedily cured.

A lady in attendance to wait upon ladies, if the patient desires it.

Rheumatism, Piles, Paralysis, Epilipsy, Obstructions, Dyspepsia, Pleurisy,
Opthalmia, Aphonia, Amaurosis, etc. etc., speedily yield to this method of treat-
ment when skillfully administered. Cases invited that have been pronounced
incurable by the regular practice

*Hippocrates further says, " It is the best thing, in my opinion, for a physician to appiy himself
diligently to the art of foreknowledge, (or Astrology); for he who is master of this art, and
shows himself such among his patients, with respect to what is present, past or future, declaring

at the same time wherein the patient his been wanting, will give su:h proofs of a superior know-
ledge in what relates to the sick that the generality of men will commie themselves to that physi-
cian without any manner of diffidence add to this, the cure will be best performed by one who
knows beforehand what will happen in diseases. It is, indeed, impossible to recover every sick
person, or else this wou d be better than the foreknowledge of what is to happen; and, therefore,
since mankind die, some -of the vehemence of the d sease— before the physician is called, others
immediately after; some living one day, others a little longer, b fore the physician has
time to set himself by his art aganst the particular disease,—knowing, therefore, the nature ol
such diseases, how far they exceed the power of the body, or how far there my be anything
divine in them, he ought also to study the art of foreknowing them, for by thi> means he will

be justly admired and esteemed a good physician ; add to this, that, as to those who are torecover
he will be better able to preserve them in a proper manner, as his intention or advice in ev°ry
step is founded upon a 1^ng view beforehand ; and, whether the patient lives or dies, his foreknow-
ing and declaring himself, shall exempt him from all blame." This is a splendid piece for those
who condemn Astrology to consider; but Astrology is out of fashion, a d unpopular, so
physicians will blunder and kill as many patients as they cure, and the Lord will be credited
for taking the patient out of this wicked world, when, in reality, it is the physician who has
murdered the patient on account of his ignorance of Astrology, or foreknowledge.

P. S. The Doctor will be most happy to give any applicant all the desired iuformation con-
cerning every known disease, at his office,

68 South Washington Square, New York,



— I

ASTROLOGY AND MEDICINE.-The Prognosis of Disease.

The " London Medical Press and Circular," November 7, 1877,
in a leading article upon the " Prognosis of Disease," said :

" Remarkable is the fact that the study of prognostics should be so neglected
at the present day, when we reflect how much this department of medical
science was cultivated at a very early period in the history of medicine. Some
have gone so far as to say that the science of prognosis has advanced little

since the time of Hippocrates ; and certainly, if we compare its progress with that
which has been made in diagnosis, in pathology, and in therapeutics, we must
admit that it has been comparatively at a standstill. For one work that is written
on prognosis, there are a thousand on the subjects just mentioned. We are as
well acquainted as most people with the medical publications of the last half-
century, and yet, so meagre is our literature, that we cannot call to mind a single
work that has been entirely devoted to the consideration of a department of medi-
cine which is of the first importance, and the state of which is the best test that
can be afforded of the general progress of the healing art. We need scarcely
remark that the prognosis of disease is one of the chief goals to which all our other
medical studies should eventually lead, and the chief criterion by which the public
estimate the scientific value of medicine, and the skill and ability of the practi-
tioner. A correct prognosis involves a correct diagnosis, a correct pathology, a
correct estimate of the value of the therapeutic agents at our disposal, and a due
consideration of the constitution of the patient, his mode of life, his surroundings,
&c. The greater perfection of medicine as an exact science would be unattainable
without a much more perfect knowledge of prognosis than we now possess, and in
this respect prognosis stands on a higher footing than even treatment, or the com-
bined knowledge of anatomy, pathology, diagnosis, therapeutics and chemistry.*

" One case of typhoid fever, for example, terminates unfavorably, another to all

appearances running in a very similar course ends in recovery. In the former case
the conditions which regulated the progress and termination of the disease, were
such that it was a physical impossibility for recovery to have taken place, while in
the other case it was likewise, and for the same reason, a physical impossibility for
death to have taken place. One of the difficulties therefore, we have to overcome
is that of discerning what these conditions are."

Thus we see the helplessness of the medical profession in regard to prognostics.
The wisdom of Hippocrates and Galen is set at naught in this matter, and the
fact is concealed that they taught that Astrology must be studied by physicians,
before they can be safely trusted to arrive at a correct prognosis, and to employ

*From " New York Herald" of November 27, 1878.
" Great Discovery in Chemistry.—At the last sitting of the French Academy of Sciences,

a very remarkable communication was read from Mr. Norman Lockyer, which, if correct, will
entirely overthrow all the theories of Chemistry at present accepted. In a series of investiga-
tions extending over some years, into the nature of the spectra of the sun and other heavenly
bodies, and of different simple bodies at various degrees of temperature, Mr. Lockyer has
arrived at the conviction that all the elementary bodies recognized by chemists are neither
more nor less than hydrogen at various degrees of condensation. According to Mr. Lockyer,
the stars which are the hottest, contain either pure hyd rogen or the most elementary substances.
The sun consists of a mixture of various elements, while the colder heavenly bodies, such as
Saturn, Jupiter and Mars, show the most complex compounds. The startling nature of the
announcement excited great astonishment, as it is utterly opposed to the scientific notions of
the chemistry of the present day, and very naturally makes us think that the ancient Astrolo-
gers were not after all such visionaries as they have generally been considered."

Mr. Edison has just electrified the world with his marvellous invention of bottling
sounds with his Telephone, and before we get over the astonishment, here steps forward
Professor Hughes, who announces the discovery of the Microphone, which is the offspring of
the Telephone, and which has the power of magnifying the sound of a fly's footsteps until it

seems like the tramp of a race-horse. We see therefore that " the music of the spheres " may
not be an astronomical myth after all. Who knows but that by the aid of a sufficiently sensitive
Microphone, the minute beatings of the heart, the flowing of the blood through the smallest
blood vessels, the expansion ofthe lung tissue, and even those subtle transitions of brain or nerve
subtance, each producing, in health, its own peculiar audible sound or harmonious rythms, and
in disease, each member or organ of the body emitting its own peculiar discordant vibration—
say, who knows but by this valuable discovery of the Microphone, and by going back to the
only true system of medicine, or the ancient Astrological practice of Hippocrates and Galen,
Viat more progress will be made in a few years in diagnosis and prognosis of diseases, than has
^pen made in the last two thousand years.



the appropriate remedies in the treatment of the cases submitted to their care.
Dr. Watson, of London, who wrote a work on " The Medical Profession in Ancient
Times," (1856, page 169), testified to the fact that Galen advocated the Hippocratic
doctrine of critical days, and " attempts to support it on grounds purely theoretical,
and drawn from the periodical changes in nature, or the 1

influence of the stars.'

It is also concealed, but it is nevertheless true, that Galen admonished his con-
temporaries " not to trust themselves to that physician (or rather pretender) who is

not skilled in Astrology."

The chief (astrological) method of forming a judgement of tke violence and
magnitude of a disease, or whether it is curable or fatal, is by inspection of the
scheme of the heavens, erected for the moment of birth of the patient, if it can be
procured, for sickness very seldom happens but through some malignant directions
of the luminaries, or of the ascendant to the body or aspects of the malefic planets
(Mars, Saturn, and Uranus).
We know that the moment of birth is a consideration above all others, but if

the figure of birth cannot be had, or if it be not exact, and rectified by events, then
in this case the figure for the decumbiture, or the time when the patient is first

taken sick, must be procured and used in its stead.
If physicians of this day were to study Astrology in connection with medicine,

as Hippocrates, the father of medicine, taught and practiced, it would enable them
to determine why in one case " it was a physical impossibility for recovery to have
taken place, while in the other case it was likewise a physical impossibility for
death to have taken place." The occurrence of the crisis, and the nature of the
prognosis can be foretold with scientific precision, by watching the motion of the
moon, and her configuration with the sun and planets in the sick person's nativity,
or, if that cannot be obtained, a map of the heavens taken for the time the patient
is first taken sick, or the time he first sees his physician.

The following are some of the aphorisms of Cardan relating to medical astrology :

' In sickness, when the Moon applies to a planet contrary to the nature of the
distemper, especially if it be a fortune, the disease will be changed for the better.

" When the Moon at the decumbiture, or first falling sick, shall be under the
beams of the Sun, or with Saturn, Mars [or Uranus,] if the party be old, even her
conjunction with Jupiter, Venus, or Mercury, is not without peril.

" Saturn causes long diseases ; Mercury, varying ones ; the Moon, such as return
after a time, as vertigoes, epilepsy, etc.; Jupiter and the Sun give short diseases

;

but Mars, the acutest of all.

" When the Moon is in a fixed sign, physic works the less ; and if in Aries,
Taurus or Capricorn, will be apt to prove nauseous to the patient.

" In purging, it is well that both the Moon and the lord of the ascendant be
descending and under the Earth ; in vomiting that they ascend.

" When at the beginning of a disease the luminaries are both with the mfortunes,
or in opposition to them, the sick will hardly escape.
"With respect to fevers. When the Sun is afflicted in Leo, mischievous fevers

are threatened. It will be a fatal time to suffer amputation, or lose any member,
when the Moon is under the Sun's beams and opposed by Mars.

" When you think to do good to your eyes, let the Moon be fortunate, increasing
in light, and by no means in a sign of earthly triplicity."

"A physician is nature's helper, or at least he ought to be. Whosoe\er would
help nature, must of necessity be well acquainted with her laws. A little com-
munication or understanding of her laws will instruct him in the way and manner
the Almighty governs the world. Wisdom instructs her children in the know-
ledge of time, for there is an appointed time for everything under the sun. If, then,
when a disease seems. extremely dangerous, you would make an essay to relieve
languishing nature, do it at the time when the Moon passes by the body or good
aspect of Jupiter or Venus

; then is the patient in a condition to receive help.
You can sooner lift up a living man with one finger than a dead man with both
hands a bird,

; whilst it has wings can fly, but cut off the wings, and hang a couple
of stones on its legs, and it cannot. Even so the good aspects of the Moon to Jupi-
ter and Venus are like wings to conduct the man from sickness to health. The
bodies and aspects of Saturn and Mars to the Moon are like stones to weigh him
lo the grave.



;

'The aspects of the Moon to the planets are always to be noted, for they will
produce something, either favorable or unfavorable to the sick ; but upon critical
and judicial days the influence of the Moon's aspects to the planets or the Sun
are much more marked, for you will find this a certain truth, even as certain as
the existence of the Sun, that when the Moon passes by the body of Jupiter or
Venus, or their aspects, especially their good ones, if they be not lords of death,
she remits the most desperate symptoms in sickness, and gives the sick some ease
as also the Moon to the bodies, or any evil aspect of Saturn or Mars, exasperates a
disease, and dispels the most hopeful symptoms.

For the Cure of any Disease take these Rules.

"First determine what the disease is.

"Second, consider what is the author or cause of it ; and that you may know if

you notice or consider what planet governs that disease.
"Consider whether it be caused by the sympathy or antipathy of the planet; and

that you may know this (which is the whole key of physic), consider first whether
the planet afflicting governs the part afflicted ; and if he has any dominion in that
part of the body he causes it by sympathy. One example will clear all :—Suppose
the disease is in the bones, spleen, etc., if Saturn be the cause of it, it is by sympathy,
because he governs those parts ; and so of the other planets.

"If the disease be caused by antipathy, consider what part of the body any planet
afflicts, either by his presence or aspects ; and then, secondly, consider what planet
governs that part. If the planet afflicting be an enemy to that planet governing
that part, then the disease is caused by antipathy. As is the disease so is the
cure.

"If by antipathy, then apply those medicines proper to the place affected and
governed by the afflicting planet ; then the cure is by antipathy. Suppose
Saturn afflicts some part the Moon governs, here the disease is cured by antipathy,
because Saturn is an enemy to the Moon ; to cure which, apply herbs, roots, etc.,

to the part affected and governed by the Moon, because they are antipathetical to
the disease caused by Saturn.

"If the disease is caused by his sympathy, then must you apply medicine proper
to the parts affected, or disease affecting and governing by that planet afflicting

;

here is cure by sympathy ; here the planet that kills or strikes is repelled, or is beat
with his own weapons.

"One thing more let me tell you, and I will tell you but the truth. The old as-
trologers say if Saturn afflicts, Jupiter helps more than Venus ; but if Mars afflicts,

Venus helps more than Jupiter. Let them say so still ; but make use of that for-

tune which is strongest. A rich friend may relieve your wants, a poor friend can-
not—he may wish you well, but cannot help you. But suppose you dare not wait
until the Moon comes to the good aspect of Jupiter and Venus, administer your
medicine when she is in the place where one of them was at the decumbiture. If
you dare not wait until that time neither, for delay is dangerous in acute diseases,
be sure you place one of those two in the ascendant when you administer the medi-
cine.
"The place and state of the planet from which the Moon is separated at the de-

cumbiture, and the condition of the planet also, is to be heeded.
"If you please to observe the state of that same planet, by it you may know the

state of the sick, and what the cause of the sickness is.

"When you have done so, it is your wisest way to consider to what planet the
Moon applies ; and then do but view what sign that planet is in, what his conditions
be, whether he is benevolent or malevolent, whether he is masculine or feminine,
diurnal or nocturnal, hot, dry, cold, or moist, what part of the body he governs, and
what disease he signifies.

"Consider whether the planet the Moon applies to be in an angle, in asucceedent,
or in a cadent house ; and when you have done so, do but consider what the house
he is in signifies, and what members of the body he governs ; and then take but a
little notice whether the planet joys in the house or not. That you may not be
mistaken therein, I will inform you in what house every planet takes his delight, as
being suspicious, even amongst astrologers, more are ignorant of it than know it.



1. The Sun delights in the 4th, 9th and nth houses.
2. The Moon rejoices in the 3d and 7th houses.

3. Saturn rejoices in the ascendant, 8th and 12th houses.

4. Jupiter rejoices in the 2d, 9th and nth.
5. Mars rejoices in the 3d, 5 th and 10th.

6. Venus rejoices in the 5th and 12th.

7. Mercury rejoices in the ascendant and 6th.

"Consider whether the planet the Moon applies to be direct or retrograde, swift
or slow in motion, oriental, occidental, or combust ; whether fortunated or unfor-
tunated by other planets.
"When you have done so, it is your wisest way to consider whether the afflicting

planet be in its own house or exaltation, or other essential dignities, whether he be
in planet's of good terms or evil ; for if a good planet has got an ill planet in his
term he will order him. In one word, consider whether the threatening planet has
power to execute his will or not.

"First, take notice that the significators of diseases are to be taken under these
two denominations— 1, General, or more principal ; 2, Particular, or less principal.
The general or more principal are these—The Sun, the Moon and the ascendant.
Of these, the Sun is principally to be looked to in chronic diseases, the Moon in
acute.

"Significators particular, or less principal, are these—
1st. The lord of the ascendant.
2d. The 6th house.
3d. The lord of the 6th house.
4th. The planet in the ascendant or 6th house.
5th. Saturn and Mars, for they naturally hurt the body, whatever the matter

or disease is.

"The 6th house and its lord, and the planets in it, if there be any there, best
describe the nature of the disease usually, nay always, if they afflict either of the
luminaries, or the lord of the. ascendant.

"Consider what configurations the lord of the ascendant, the 6th and 8th
houses, have one with another ; and amongst the rest, do not forget the lords of
the 7th and 12th houses, and I will give you my reason why.—The 7th, because he
opposes the ascendanc, he assaults life openly ; and the 6th, 8th, and I2th houses
have no affinity at all with the ascendant, but signify the loss of life.

"Partile aspects are far more strong and prevalent than platic.
"You must always consider that the 6th and its lord signifies the sickness ; the

7th, the physician ; the 8th, death ; the loth, the medicine ; and the 4th, the end
of the disease."

Hippocrates (and be it remembered that he and his followers for centuries were
heathens) held that life could be prolonged just so long as the vital forces were ca-
pable of resisting disease or natural decay, and no longer, and that so long as the
"hyleg" (giver of life) remained strong, so long the person would live, medicine or
no medicine. They maintained that while the "giver of life" is strong and un-
afflicted, death would be a physical impossibility, pills and drugs to the contrary
notwithstanding.
He also taught (vol. i. p. 360) "

: The physician must be able to tell the ante-
cedents, know the past, and foretell the future. Must meditate these things, and
have two special objects in view, with regard to disease, namely : to do good or to
do no harm. The art consists in three things—the 'disease' (its nature), the 'patient'
(his constitutional maladies and natural ability to resist disease), and the 'physician.'
The physician is the servant of the art, and the patient (not the medicine adminis-
tered, chiefly,) must combat the disease along with the physician.
Has Hippocrates' doctrines and teachings been "exploded long ago" ? Modern

medical works speak of him as the "father of medicine."
In his day it was the custom of the physician to erect a map of the heavens of the

birth of the patient, to determine what the patient's constitutional diseases were likely
to be,—what portions of the system were indicated as being weak by the position of
the planets at birth,—each zodiacal sign governing certain portions of the body, as
Aries, the head ; Taurus, the throat ; Cancer, the chest ; Libra, the kidneys, etc.



Another map of the heavens was erected for the date of the beginning of the
disease, to ascertain what planets are transiting through the patient's ascendant
(house of life—the sign ascending in the east at .birth) or over the places of the Sun,
Moon or other planets at birth, to ascertain the nature of the disease, and the farts
of the body where the disease was located at that time.
For example : the cold, phlegmatic Moon located at birth in the sign Cancer,

(the breast) being transited by the cold Saturn, would be likely, in a weak constitu-
tion to produce a cough, or some other chest disease, produced by the concentration
of too much cold in the breast at this time. Mars transiting the same place instead
of Saturn, if afflicted, might produce measles, inflammation of the lungs, or fever, or
some hot disease of his nature in the sign Cancer. In a strong and healthy constitu-
tion, these transits are but seldom serious, and sometimes are but hardly noticeable
until the person is advanced in life.

Physical harmony and perfect development in all particulars, comes of planetary
harmony at the time of birth, and from harmony, inharmonious results cannot come.
When people are ignorant of those planetary laws governing our nature, the mis-

takes and wrong conclusions they often arrive at are innumerable ; especially are
those (sometimes fatal) mistakes liable to occur in calling in or changing a physician,
or in prescribing medicine for a very sick patient. For instance, a medicine is pre-
scribed, or a physician is called to attend a patient at the first stages of a disease,
(when a transit is just commencing and not yet complete), and the patient grows
worse on his hands, or while taking that medicine, the physician is dismissed for
supposed incompetency, or the medicine is changed because it is imagined to be
making the patient worse. Just at the time when, astrologically speaking, the
planets transiting have reached a degree of longitude occupied by the Moon at
birth, another pnysician is called, or another medicine is tried (just as the transit-
ing planet is passing off the place transited), and the patient at once begins to im-
prove (the planetary cause now passing off), the last pnysician, or the last medicine
is accredited with the cure, by both the patient and his friends.
Not so, says the astrologer, for the first physician may be far the better m?.n,

more prudent, painstaking and philanthropic ; or the first medicine might have been
much better for the patient and the disease, but unfortunately for the physician, or
the medicine he was then using, the physician by being dismissed, or the medicine
by being changed a little too soon to reap the benefit of the planetary separation,
which benefit accrues to the latter, unmerited.

There are times, or rather certain positions of the planets, when to change the
physician or medicine, or to perform a common surgical operation is certain death
to the patient.
By astrology only are these phenomena elucidated and logically explained.

Without astrology man treads, as it were, in the dim twilight of ignorance, or as
Culpepper says, "medicine without astrology, is like a lamp without oil." Man's
constitution is surrounded by and interwoven with subtle laws, which cannot be
violated with impunity, or without him suffering the consequences.

It is known to all who have studied their influences, that the numerous diseases
afflicting mankind, are caused by the planetary bodies ; and by observing the
different significators in a nativity, the nature of the disorders to which the consti-
tution is predisposed may be ascertained, and this fact once known, the cure is

half effected.
But it must be understood, that success in curing the disease depends greatly

on the time when the treatment is commenced. There is a period when no disease
can be combated, when it has obtained the mastery, and the physical energy and
vitality is so lessened and reduced as to be beyond human power.

1 have made these numerous quotations from the writings of Hippocrates and other ancient
physicians, to show the reader that the ancients were not so ignorant in the most important
branches of medicine as physicians are at the present day. These observations which they had
made on prognosis and diagnosis of disease, in connection with planetary influence, had been
continued for hundreds or thousands of years ; and the perfection at which they had arrived
in astro-medical botany, and in prognosing disease, by the positions and aspects of the Moon
and planets, was so marvelous, that it will reouire hundreds of years of patient application and
observation of planetary influence in disease, for the physicians of the present and coming
generations, to arrive at anything like the perfection attained by our forefathers two thousand
years ago.

If, in publishing this circular, I have succeeded in drawing the attention of even a few prac-
ticing physicians, so that they will commence to investigate this ancient and only true system
of medicine, as I and my forefathers have done, its maia or-'ect will be accomplished.



The study of the stars has always been pursued in all ages. The astrologer and
philosopher have ever occupied prominent places among men. At the present
time, the astrologer who has studied the science and read the books of the old
masters of the art, cannot be otherwise than a learned man, and capable of giving
to the world much that is useful, interesting and exciting. The realms of the past,

the present and the future are constantly before his vision, and with magic power,
lessons of wisdom are imparted with almost entire accuracy.
To those entirely unacquainted with judicial Astronomy or Astrology, it will,

perhaps, be necessary to state that it is a science based upon mathematical calcula-
tions, deductions being made from the daily configurations and aspects of the
planetary orbs, and has no connection with the various methods of fortune telling

by cards and other methods of divination imposed upon the public.
The desire to penetrate the future is common to all, it is born with our birth

and implanted in us for a wise purpose and the signs of the heavens interpreted
by a skillful professor are the only true means of attaining it.

There is nothing repugnant to virtue, morality, or the laws of the Deity in the
study or application of astral science to the benefit of mankind it is perhaps the

;

most ancient of all sciences, and has been studied and venerated by literary men
from time immemorial.
A nativity is a scheme or diagram of the heavens at the time of birth ; from

this, deductions can be made regarding duration of life, sickness, accidents, mental
qualities, disposition, the profession or employment most suitable, description of
person of wife or husband, children, reputation, friends, enemies, wealth, prosperity
or adversity, honor, etc., etc. ; and by computing the planetary motions termed
transits, or arcs OF direction, the periods are foretold when changes for good
or evil may be expected, and the various future events of life ascertained. From
this diagram of the heavens, the road to health and happiness so far as attainable
in individual cases can be pointed out.

Parents knowing the planetary influences existing at the birth of their children,
are enabled so to direct their education as to be of incalculable advantage to their
future interests in life.

By Horary Astrology, may be determined the result, success or failure of any in-
tention, event or undertaking, such as speculations, investments, co-partnerships,
lawsuits, courtship, marriage, making purchases or sales, rise and fall of the grain
or stock market, mortgages, hiring houses or lands, commencing business or journeys,
obtaining employment or office, the most profitable quarter to reside in for the
pursuit of health or wealth, recovery of debts, situation and health of absent
friends, lost property, mining interests—in short there are no transactions in life

which may not most certainly be determined when the inquirer sincerely desires in-

formation. This knowledge of the future is invaluable to the trader, farmer, mer-
chant and speculator.

L. D. BROUGHTON, M. D.,

President of the International Astrological Society, located in the City

of New York,
Editor of "Broughton's Monthly Planet Reader and Astrological Journal," Etc.,

Respectfully announces to his friends and the public in general, that he is per-
manently located at 68 South Washington Square, New York,

where he will be happy to receive all those who may favor him with a visit. Hi<?
scientific and literary attainments as an Astrologer makes it an object for the public
to consult him upon the various contingencies and events of human life.

The most sensitive need have no hesitation in seeking for information upon any
matter, as the Doctor pays the most scrupulous regard to the feelings and interests
of those who consult him, his sole aim being to advise with sincerity, and in all

cases the most inviolable confidence is observed.
CONSULTATION FEE—Ladies $i to $3 gentlemen $3 to $5. Office open

;

day and evening.
Persons residing at a distance, can consult the Doctor by letter, enclosing $2

and stamp. Send date and place of birth, hour and minute if possible ; if hour



:

and minute are not known send a description of person, height, weight, color of
hair, complexion, etc., and state time of some events such as sickness, etc., and if

married, give date of marriage, as this assists the Doctor in finding the true time of
birth.

THE OPINION OF THE PRESS.
Wonders Never Cease.—We understand that Dr. L. D. Broughton of this city has a

method of telling any person's disposition and character by the position of the planets at the
time of birth, and also that he can tell any person's past, present and future destiny by the
revolutions of the Heavenly bodies and with as much certainty as an astronomer can tell when
it will be Summer and Winter by the revolution of the earth around the Sun; and that he
can tell whether any person will become wealthy, and what kind of business they will succeed
the best in, and what they are best adapted for ; also the description and disposition of any
person's future wife or husband, and if they will live happily in a married life, etc., etc.

Should this fact be thoroughly established by trial and experience, we think that it will be
one of the greatest sciences of the age ; for if people could tell tor certain what is likely to
happen to them, they might guard against misfortune very much, so as not to feel its influence
in its full force, just in the same manner as we can guard against the cold and inclemency of
Winter by providing suitable clothing, food, fire, etc., and if we knew when our most fortunate
times were coming, we might improve them very much. As Shakespeare says:

" There is a tide in the affairs of men
Which taken at the flood leads on to fortune,
Omitted, all the voyage of their life

Is bound in shallows and in miseries."
We would say to all our readers, call on or send time and place of birth to Dr. Broughton,

and give him a fair trial, and then you can prove for yourself whether there is any truth in this
science or not. His charges are very moderate.—Philadelphia Evening Reporter.

To the opponents of Astrology I have not one word to say in defense of this
science, but to those who are unprejudiced and wish to learn the truth, I will here
offer a few suggestions which may assist them in investigating this subject.
That the heavenly bodies, that is, the stars, Sun, Moon, and planets, have an

effect upon this earth and its inhabitants is as self-evident a truth as that they have
an existence. The ebbing and flowing of the tides prove this, as well as the peri-
odical returns of heat and cold, light and darkness ; these are some of the most
prominent influences by which the truths of Astrology become manifest, and planet-
ary influences are being universally felt and admitted, and its periods are accurately
calculated and known. Thus far, at least, all men and women are astrologers, but
most of them are like the man who had been talking prose all his life and did not
know it.

The opponents of Astrology tell us that this science has been exploded, but
when or where the explosion took place, or who heard it, "deponent sayeth not,"
simply because they do not know and never will.

Twenty-five years ago I stood, as it were, alone, and almost the only advocate
and defender of this science on this continent, and the reader of this day would
not believe the amount of persecution I had to endure; but within the last twenty
years there has been a great change in public opinion in regard to the science of
Astrology and its professors.
The scientific men and savans, both in Europe and this country, have begun to

give attention to this ancient science, and have come to the conclusion that our
forefathers for hundreds of years past, were not such fools after all as they have
taken them to be.
One of the prominent lecturers who have drawn attention to this subject, in

his lectures and publications is the English astronomer, Mr. Richard A. Proctor,
who in his book called Myths and Marvels of Astronomy, on page 7, says

" The Moon, as she circles around the earth exerts a manifest influence upon
terrestrial matter—the tidal wave, rising and sinking cinchronously with the move-
ments of the Moon, and other consequences depend, directly or indirectly upon her
revolution around the earth. The Sun's influence is still more manifest, being the
greater light which rules the day, rules the seasons also—and in ruling them provides
the annual supply of vegetable food on which the very existence ofmen and animals
depend, if these two bodies, the Sun and Moon, are thus potent, must it not be
supposed that the other celestial bodies exert corresponding influences. The Sun
is second only to the Moon in tidal influences. We know also that his position as



;

fire, light, and life of the earth, and its inhabitants, is due directly to the tremendous
heat with which the whole of his mighty frame is instinct."

And the same author goes on to say, on page 15 :

" The seasons of our earth, are affected by the condition of the Sun in the matter
of spots—for instance, it has been found that years, when the Sun has been free

from spots, have been warmer than the average. And that the Sun's spots wax and
ware in periods of time which are manifestly referable to the planetary motions.
Thus the great solar spot period lasts about eleven years, the successive spotless
epochs being separated on the average by about that time ; and so nearly does this

period agree with the period of the planet Jupiter's revolution around the Sun, that
during eight consecutive spot periods the spots were most numerous when Jupiter
was nearest to the Sun. Seeing then that the Sun's spots manifestly affect the
weather and the seasons, while the planets rule the Sun's spots, it is clear that the
planets really rule the seasons, and again, seeing that the planets rule the seasons,
while the seasons largely affect the well being of men and nations (to say nothing
of animals), it follows that the planets influence the fate of men and nations (and
animals)."

This is positive proof of the influence of the planets on the earth and its inhabi-
tants.

Dr. Knapp, of Chicago, Illinois, has of late years drawn special attention to the
petihelion of the superior planets, and the remarkable effects which have been pro-
duced on the earth in droughts, pestilence and famine, and which have always
occurred at those particular periods when those planets were in their perihelion.
The effects which have been produced upon the earth by those superior planets

being in their nearest position to the sun, appears to outweigh all other natural
causes in producing those various epidemics, at those particular epochs, and no
wonder that the effect should be marvelous when we consider the Sun as the great
source of light and heat to our earth, and so many of those planets which are so
many thousand times larger than our earth, and while in their perihelion being so
many millions of miles nearer to the Sun, and drawing from that source so much
more of its light, heat and magnetism than their usual share or allotment, and
leaving our earth so much less than its natural share, that the effect should be that
our atmosphere becomes "muggy" and the sky loses its natural healthy blueness,
the sun almost covered with spots, harvests fail, and pestilence should stalk through
the land at those particular periods.

During the fifth century, at one of those perihelion of the superior planets, there
was an epidemic caused by it, which carried off over fifty millions of the people
during that time.

I have not space in this pamphlet to notice the different petihelions that have
occurred since the Christian era commenced, and therefore refer the readers to the
writings of Dr. Knapp, who has calculated all the petihelions, and who has taken
note of all the epidemics for the last two thousand years, and has shown clearly
that there has not been any epidemic of any note, during all that time, that has not
occurred during the perihelion of one or more of the superior planets.

B. G. Jenkins, F. R. A. S., of England, in an article published in The Pall Mall
Gazette, London, says :

" The reason why people of the present day do not believe in planetary influence
are two-fold—first, it is held to betoken ignorance and superstition points on

;

which educated people are very sensitive, and secondly, they cannot imagine how
such tiny objects can affect their great globe, unconsciously forgetting that our earth
among the planets is as a pea among cannon balls. From a lengthy study of this
subject, I can come to no other conclusion than that the planets of the solar system
are intimately connected with the phenomena or what takes place on this earth,
and I shall, in as few words as possible, lay before the reader my reasons for such a
conclusion."

Mr. Jenkins goes on to cite the different periods at which cholera was pervalent,
from 1816 to 1861, and he noticed that the outbreak occured about every seventeen
years, which periods were alternately the maximum and minimum of the Sun's spots.
He further says



" Certainly the Sun spots could not have produced the cholera, for there was a
great outbreak when they were very plentiful, and next when they were very few,
but that there was a connection, I felt convinced, and that they were both in the
nature of cause and effect."

Further on, he says:
11
1 suggested, in a paper I read at the time before the Royal Historical Society,

that the cause was probably to be found in the influence of the planets. I noticed
the number of periods in which cholera broke out, but meanwhile I worked at the
Sun's spots, and was rewarded by finding that the average period of the phenomena
or magnetic storms or auroral periods was eleven and one-ninth years, the period of
Jupiter's animalistic year. I then turned to terrestrial magnetism, and found that
the needle of the compass, at London was moving east up to 1 580, and west
till 1816, and east ever since. The outbreak of the plague directed my attention to
that subject ; as the magnetic poles advance the epidemics accompanied them.
On calculating back, I found that the line which is now passing across Russia,

and causing diphtheria, pestilence, famine, etc., must have passed over that region five
hundred years ago ; this will take us back to the middle of the fourteenth century,
and with similar magnetic conditions we have similar epidemics."
The Black Death.—We know this plague devastated Europe more or less the

two centuries thereafter, culuminating in the great plague of London in 1665. It
occurred to me that the planet Neptune might be the cause of the movement of
the magnetic pole. On examining the movements of that planet and its orbit I
found that the movements of the needle varied in accordance with those of that
planet, while it makes three revolutions. The magnet makes an eccentric circle
around the pole of the earth ; this eccentricity I found was due to some influence
at the maximum of about 80 years. On examining the movements and position oi

Uranus, which planet completes its revolution in 84 years, I found that they were
such as to account for the anomaly.

In conclusion, Mr. Jenkins agrees with Dr. Knapp of Chicago, that within the
next seven years, commencing with 1S80, there will occur that which has not hap-
pened before for hundreds of years. All the superior planets will be at or near
their nearest point to the sun, called the perihelion of the planets ; therefore we
may expect extraordinary magnetic phenomena during the next seven years.
Great plagues will manifest themselves in all their intensity, commencing about
1878 and ending about 1886 or a few years later.

I copy the following from the New York Sunday Mercury, June 27, 1880:
"There occurs a conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn about every twenty years. A conjunction

took place in 1822, another in 1842, and another in 1861. Another conjunction will occur in 1881,
and another in 1901 ; and the two planets will make their commensurate perihelia in 1915.
"Jupiter will make his perihelia in October, 1880 ; Mars will iollow a year hence, on May 28,

1881 ; Neptune, a few months later ; Urauus, in the spring of 1882 ; and Saturn in the autumn of
1885. In other words all the great planets are rapidly approaching the great central luminary.
Great drifts of sun-spots consequently shoot athwart his disk. The earth feels the reactive
effect of the solar disturbance. Rain is withheld ; springs are dried up ; grass is withered ; crops
are ruined, and gaunt famine stares us in the face. With the unpleasant experiences of the past,
and the, probably, near future before us, the subject of the striking coincidences of planetary
perihelia and pestilence, will be likely to receive more respectful attention from astronomers
and medical men than it has been accorded in the past."

Although it is reasonable to expect that the perihelion of the superior planets,
(which phenomenon commences in the latter part of this year, 1880, and lasts

until the end of 1885), will have a similar effect, and which effect is felt a few
years before the first perihelion, and also for a number of years after the last

perihelion, on the earth and its inhabitants, in droughts, epidemics, pestilence
and famine, that they have had in former ages, yet it is unreasonable to expect that
their influences will be felt as much as formerly in cultivated and civilized countries.
For instance, the improvements in ship building, navigation, canals, and railways
will prevent famine from becoming very prevalent in any one civilized country, as
those improvements in travel can take the surplus of eatables from more fortunate
localities; as the crops have never been known to fail in all parts of the world
alike, or to the same extent at one time. As an instance, the famine in Ireland
and the large crops in America in 1879, enabled us to give or send some of our
surplus to that famishing country,



The improvements in the supply of fresh water, and good sewerage, and the sani-

tary conditions of large towns and cities, have also, in a great measure prevented the
spread of epidemics such as cholera, yellow fever, etc., from one city to another,
except in those places where the water, drainage, and sanitary conditions are
bad.

For instance, although the yellow fever was very prevalent in the Summer and
Fall of 1878, in New Orleans, Grenada, Vicksburg and Memphis where the drain-

age and water were unhealthy, and although numbers of people Stricken with yel-

low fever fled to Philadelphia, New York, and other cities where numbers of them
died, yet that fever did not become epidemic or contagious in those cities.

Nearly a hundred years ago Dr. Rush and Dr. Caldwell, both of Philadelphia,
Pa., became almost bitter enemies in their discussions and arguments as to whether
yellow fever was epidemic or endemic. Dr. Caldwell took the endemic side, and
Dr. Rush the epidemic. Dr. Rush argued that if they could keep the yellow fever
from being imported into Philadelphia they would never have any there. Dr.
Caldwell argued that if they had plenty of fresh water in Philadelphia, and kept
the streets and sewers clean', they would still have no yellow fever there, even if

it was imported. The facts have proved since, that Dr. Caldwell was right, as they
have never had yellow fever epidemic in Philadelphia since they stopped using the
well water; and the purer water of the Schuylkill has been used tor drinking and
cooking purposes, and also in quantities to keep the streets and sewers clean.
The same may be said of New York, since they have used the water of the Croton
River, and the same principle applies to other cities in the Northern States.
Although all those improvements in the sanitary condition of cities have greatly

improved the health of the people living in them, and in preventing the develop-
ment and spread of those various epidemics, yet we cannot prevent altogether those
peculiar conditions of the atmosphere which are the main secondary causes of
those epidemics, and which are produced by planetary influences.
Sometimes some simple-minded physician, who perhaps has discovered a remedy

for some special disease, and which in most ordinary cases appears to have a bene-
ficial effect in curing or alleviating that disease, yet when applied in those cases pro-
duced by telluric influence appears to have no effect whatever. I might instance a cer-
tain doctor, who went to New Orleans in the Fall of 1878. during the yellow fever
epidemic in that city, with a peculiar patent bedstead to be in some way used in
curing that fever yet when applied there, and in that particular condition of the

;

atmosphere, had no effect, and he soon became a victim to the yellow fever himself.
I might also instance here a certain doctor who went from the United States to

Russia, with a certain plant which he deemed a positive cure for diphtheria, a disease
which has become epidemic in that country of late through telluric influence, and
although there has been a number of diphtheria patients placed under his care,
yet according to the report every one of them has died while under his treatment,
and he may in time become a victim to his own infatuation.

I mention these few instances to illustrate my point, that all doctors ought to
study those peculiar planetary influences which cause the various epidemics : then
they would not be so likely to lose all faith in some good remedy for some special
disease

; which might be good in all ordinary cases of that disease, but of no use
when applied under those special telluric influences and conditions. A fire engine
might be very useful in quenching a fire in an ordinary building, but of no use
whatever when a prairie is on fire, in a very hot and dry season.

The ancestors of Dr. Broughton have made Astrology, in connection with
medicine a special study for a number of generations, and the Hippocrates practice
of medicine has been taught, from father to son, in their family during that time.

Dr. Broughton has also had a large practice in Astrology and Medical Botany,
For over 25 years, in England, Philadelphia, New York and Saratoga Springs ; he
would be happy to treat any patient who has not found relief from any other sys-
tem of practice, at his office and residence,

68 South Washington Square, New York.
He can also be consulted by letter enclosing $2, giving time of birth of patient,

also when first taken sick, etc.

Incurable cases solicited and cured or money returned,



BROUGHTON'S

Monthly Planet Reader
and

ASTROLOGICAL JOURNAL.

This periodical commenced April ist, i860, and continued

to Dec, 1869 ; all the back numbers are bound in one volume,

price, by mail, $1.00. It contains nearly 300 pages, and was

devoted to the illustration and defence of Astrology, besides

a great deal of very curious information regarding the

science of Astrology and the occult. It contains a great

number of horoscopes of leading generals who fought in the

Rebellion, and of presidents of the United States. Among

others the horoscopes of Gen. George B. McClellan, General

Winfield Scott, President Buchanan, President Lincoln,

Gen. Grant, Louis Napoleon Bonaparte, Gen. John C.

Fremont, Stephen A. Douglass, Hon. John Bell, The

Prince of Wales, Charles Dickens, Lord Byron, Hon.

William H. Seward, Gen. Burnside, Gen. Giuseppe Garibaldi

and Gen. Washington, with charts of the heavens for the same.

It also contains a colored chart illustrating Astro-

Phrenology and a guide for students for that science,

besides other interesting matter.
