TRUE ASTROLOGY 

"BASIC AND TRADITIONAL CONCEPTS" 
(Revised and Enlarged) 

SP. Khullar 
I.T.S. 

GM. Telecommunications (Rtd.) 



Acknowledgment 

First of all I feel greatly indebted to all the Astrologers of the era 
whose irresolute faith in the sacred knowledge of Astrology acted 
upon my psyche like Saturn on Mars in Capricorn; Moon on Jupiter 
in Cancer and Mars on Sun in Aries. In depth study of the theories 
of Nadi Literature enkindled in me the true love and devotion for 
Astrology. Mr. Saurabh Sagar of Sagar Publications provided me 
this literature. I owe my sincere thanks to him. I was inspired to 
dive deep into the ocean of this occult science of Astrology by my 
sons Mr. Manish and Mr. Mohit. I owe my gratitude to them. My 
beloved wife Mrs. Rashmi suffered the pangs of negligence due to 
my single-minded devotion to Astrology. I offer my apologies to 
her. I also owe my gratitude to some of my students and friends but 
for their motivation it would have not been possible to write this 
Book. 

Let me also thank Sagar Publications for bringing my Book "Basic 
and Traditional Concepts" in the simple, illustrative and beautiful 
format. 

I will fail in my duty if I don't express my gratitude to Mr. R.S. 
Chani for his valuable suggestions. 

S.P. Khullar 
I.T.S. 



Contents 

g Title Page 
No. No. 

Introduction ix 

Hindi Equivalent xi 

1. Fundamentals of Astronomy 1 

2. Retrogression & Combustion of Planets 15 

3. Zodiac and its Division 19 

4. Casting the Rashi Chart 56 

5. The Houses and their Significations 76 

6. Nakshatras 102 

7. Planets and their Significations 124 

8. Aspects 147 

9. Behaviour of Planets 152 

10. Vimsottari Dasa 160 

11. Traditional Concept of Analysing Horoscope 168 

12. Analysing the Ascendant 178 

13. Analysing Sixth House - Diseases 204 

14. Analysing the Seventh House - Marriage 231 

15. Analysing the Fifth House 252 

16. Analysing Horoscope for Educational Prospects 260 

17. Analysing the Tenth House - Profession 271 

18. Navamsa and its Significance 285 



Introduction 

Is Astrology a science? "No, it is a super science" 
says Mr. Astrologer. It is in fact the dogmatic, 
rigid and ritualistic approach of the practitioners 
of astrology, which resulted in creating doubts in 
the minds of the people about its efficacy. 
Astrology, no doubt, will remain an enigma if the 
attitude of the traditional astrologers will continue 
to be rigid and their minds closed to the realities 
of life. We need to learn to discriminate. It is S.P. Khullar 
shocking to say that even the intellectual giants 
like Carl Jung, Sepharial, Alan Leo, Walter Gibson, William J.T. 
Tucker, C.E.O. Carter and H.S. Green who knew that "Whatever 
is born or done at this moment of time has the qualities of this 
moment of time", also showed as if they suffered from some sort 
of intellectual void during their approach to Astrology. A moment 
can't be defined as an hour or even a few minutes. How then the 
Rashi Chart or even the Navamsha Chart (as studied and analysed 
by Vedic Astrologers) can delineate the nativity of a person. Neither 
the planetary positions nor the aspects, nor the yogas change; and 
even the varga charts may remain the same. And the less we say, 
the better it is, about the Western Astrology which primarily depends 
upon the theory of Aspects and Progression. No two human beings 
are alike in the universe. Each horoscope, therefore, has to be unique. 
Our ancient seers used to construct and analyse charts to the 
accuracy of a few seconds of the ascendant. Let us try to match 
their calibre to the best of our ability and use this sacred knowledge 
to pro vide, benefits to the society at large. 

To me Astrology is, at bottom, a microscopic criticism of all facets 
of life under the influence of celestial bodies. It is difficult for any 
learned man to deny the influence of celestial bodies on life on 



True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Earth. It is a different matter how to analyse this influence and 
apply it to predictive Astrology. People oppose things because they 
are ignorant of them. 

Laws of science are universal. We do not say American or Indian 
Laws of Motion. However in astrology no body agrees on anything. 
It is time, friends, to come to an agreement, at least in respect of its 
elemental principles. There are so many misunderstandings that if 
a radical change is not made, the fundamental role of Astrology will 
be seriously limited. 

My approach may not be an end in itself. However, I am making an 
effort in my books under the Title 'True Astrology" to present before 
the readers how to approach the subject of Astrology in a scientific 
way. The reader's dedication, devotion and the open-minded 
approach will bring rewards. However, let us not forget that our 
success in prediction is largely dependant on the accuracy of the 
software, which we use for the calculation of planetary and cuspal 
positions and also the accuracy of the birth data, which more often 
than not is questionable. 

The book True Astrology "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 
is written with the intention to prepare the genuine readers 
of the sacred science of Astrology to comprehend with ease 
the Kalamsa and Cuspal Interlinks Theories. 

Suggestions from readers are welcome. 



Hindi Equivalents 

The Planets-Graha 

English Name Hindi Name 

Sun Surya, Ravi 
Moon Chandra 
Mars Mangal, Kuja 
Mercury Budha 
Jupiter Brihaspati, Guru 
Venus ' Shukra 
Saturn Shani 
Rahu (Dragon's Head) Rahu 
Ketu (Dragon's Tail) Ketu 

The Signs-Rashi 

English Name Hindi Name 
Aries Mesha 
Taurus Vrishabha 
Gemini Mithuna 
Cancer Karka 
Leo Sirriha 
Virgo Kanya 
Libra Tula 
Scorpio Vrischika 
Sagittarius Dhanus 
Capricorn Makara 
Aquarius Kumbha 
Pisces Meena 



XII True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Miscellaneous Terms 

English Hindi Equivalent 
Altitude and Azimuth Unnattansh and Digansh 
Autumal Equinox Sharad Vishuv 
Celestial Equater Vishuvat Rekha 
Celestial Longitude and Latitude Bhogansh and Vikshep 
Celestial Sphere Khagol 
Declination Graha ka drikpaat 
Ecliptic Ravi Marg or Kranti Vrat 
G.M.T Greenwich Aosat Samay 
Latitude Graha ka shar 
Longitude Graha ka sayan, Rekhansh 
L.M.T Sthaniye Aosat Samay 
Northern Celestial Hemisphere UttariKhagolaard 
Oblique Ascension Rashi Maan 
Precession of Equinox Vishuv Ayan 
Retrograde Vakri 
Regression of Equinox Vishuv Pratigaman 
Right Ascension Graha ka Vishuvaansh 
Right Ascension and Declination Vishuvaanshand Dikpaat 
Sidereal Period Nakshatra Kaal 
Sidereal Year Nakshatak Varsh 
Sidereal Day Nakshatra Din 
Solar Day Sour Din 
Southern Celestial Hemisphere Dahshini Khagolaard 
Standard Time Maanak Samay 
Synodic Period Sanyuti Kaal 
T ropical Year Sayana Varsh 
Vernal Equinox Basant Vishuv 



Chapter 1: 

Fundamentals of Astronomy 

Introduction 

Astrology is the study of the influence of the celestial bodies on 
life on Earth. Our solar system consists of Sun, around which 
planets Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Venus and Mercury revolve in 
elliptical orbits. Moon is a satellite of Earth and revolves around 
Earth. Since Moon plays an important role in Astrology, it is also 
considered for all practical purposes a Planet. Since the Moon's 
orbit is inclined to the plane of Ecliptic (the apparent orbit of Sun), 
it cuts the Ecliptic during its revolution at two opposite points. 
These points are called Rahu and Ketu and they are also treated 
as planets in Hindu Astrology. Since these are only intersection 
points and don't possess any mass, they are called as shadowy 
planets. To understand how planets influence life on Earth, it is 
imperative to study some important fundamental aspects of 
Astronomy. 

Astronomical Basics 

Poles: Earth is a spheroid and if a perpendicular is drawn through 
the center of the Earth it will meet at two ends of the Earth's 
sphere. These points are called Poles. One is said North and the 
other is called South. At North and South poles, there is no East 
or West direction. 



2 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Earth's Axis: Line joining North pole and South pole passing 
through the center of the Earth is called the Axis of Earth. 

Earth's Equator: The great circle whose plane passes through 
the center of the Earth and which divides the Earth in two 
hemispheres (North and South) is the Equator. The circle in fact is 
traced by the perpendiculars drawn from the Earth's surface to 
North and South poles. Hence, Equator is an imaginary line on 
the surface of the Earth midway between two poles i.e it is 
equidistant from the North and South poles i.e 90 degrees towards 
North or South. 

Earth's Meridian: The planes parallel to Earth's Equator, having 
their center on the Axis, can be cut by the planes perpendicular to 
them and passing through the North and South poles of the Earth. 
These perpendicular circles are called Meridians. 

How to fix the co-ordinates of a place on Earth: For 
measurement we have to set a reference point. In India in olden 
days, Ujjain was the place of reference. But now, for the whole 
world, Greenwich is taken as the reference. Location of a place is 
defined by what is called the longitude and Latitude of the place 
with respect to Greenwich longitude and latitude i.e. the circles of 
reference are the equator and the meridian of Greenwich. 

Longitude: The distance of a point where the meridian drawn 
through the point cuts the equator, is called the longitude of the 
place with reference to the point where the reference meridian 
cuts the equator (QR Arc Fig. l).It is East or West i.e. Oto 180 
degrees East or West. 



Chapter 1: Fundamentals of Astronomy 3 

N 

G M \ 
J 1 

—/  
( 

\ Q 

S 

Pig. J 

Latitude: The distance of the point along the North or South 
measured along the meridian from the reference equator is called 
the Latitude of the place (RM Arc Fig. 1). 

It is north or south i.e. 0 to 90 degrees North or South. 

The Celestial Sphere: It is a great imaginary sphere with the 
Earth at its center. Since Earth rotates on its axis from West to 
East, the celestial sphere and the celestial bodies, therefore, 
appears to an observer on Earth to move Westwards i.e from 
East to West. This apparent movement of the celestial sphere 
makes Sun and other planets to rise East of, and sets West of the 
observer'^ meridian (i.e. the imaginary semicircle that passes the 
North and South points of the horizon).The celestial sphere can 
be imagined as being somewhat an extension of the Earth itself. 
The celestial equator is directly above the earth's equator. The 



J True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

respective North and South poles of the celestial sphere are exactly 
above the North and South poles of the Earth and are known as 
the celestial North and The celestial South. 

Fixing the Position of the Planets: We locate the position of a 
place on Earth by noting its Longitude and Latitude.The location 
of the celestial bodies is done using the same concept.However 
celestial sphere's latitude is termed as Declination (DEC) and 
celestial sphere's longitude is known as Right ascension (RA). 

Right Ascension: It is a measure of how far East a point is with 
respect to the line running on the surface of the celestial sphere 
between the celestial poles (Prime Meridian). 

Difference between Longitude and RA 

1. Longitude of a place is measured either E or W However, 
RA is always measured eastwards from a reference point 
known as the "First point of Aries" or Vernal Equinox. 

2. Longitude is measured in degrees whereas RA is measured 
in hours, minutes and seconds. It actually indicates the time 
taken by the celestial body to transit from its meridian to 
the reference meridian. 

Declination: The circles crossing the celestial equator at right 
angles and passing through the two poles are called Declination 
circles. These help to fix the position of the celestial body North 
or South of the celestial equator. Declination is called Kranti in 
Sanskrit. Distance of objects found in Northern hemisphere of 
the celestial equator are said to be positive and those situated in 
the Southern hemisphere are said to be negative. 

Motions of Earth: Earth revolves around Sun from West to East 
and completes 360 degrees in 365.2422 days. Earth also revolves 
around its own Axis (the plane joining North -South poles) and 



Chapter 1: Fundamentals of Astronomy 5 

completes its revolution in 23hrs 56mins and 4 sees. This revolution 
of Earth is also from West to East. 

Ecliptic: The great circle formed by the intersection of the plane 
of Earth's orbit around Sun is called the Ecliptic. Viewed from 
Earth it appears as if Sun is moving from East to West. It is, 
therefore, also called the apparent path of Sun in the sky during 
the course of a year. In the geocentric system this path is inclined 
to the celestial equator at an angle of 23° 27'. 

Equinoxes: The Ecliptic and the celestial equator cuts at two 
points diametrically opposite to each other. These points are called 
equinoxes. Its intersection point formed due to Sun's movement 
from South to North and which coincides with Aries is called 
Vernal Equinox and the point of intersection of Ecliptic and celestial 
equator during Sun's journey from North to South and which 
coincides with Libra is called Autumnal Equinox. 

Fig. 2 

Vernal Equinox, infact,is the point of intersection of the Ecliptic 
and celestial equator when Sun changes its DEC from South to 
the North and the Autumnal Equinox is the point of intersection 



B True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

during Sun's return journey Southwards i.e. when Sun changes its 
DEC from North to South. 

Zodiac: If we observe the movements of the planets we will find 
that they also move in their individual orbits, which are slightly 
inclined to the Echptic. However, no planet precedes either North 
or South of the Ecliptic by more than 8.5 degrees. Hence, if a 
parallel line on either side of the Echptic is drawn at a distance of 
8.5 degrees, then the Ecliptic will be in the middle whereas on 
either side there will be a broad pathway. This pathway in which 
all the planets can be located at any time is called the Zodiac. 

Celestial Longitude and Latitude 

For Astrological purposes, to locate the position of Planets, the 
Echptic is used as the circle of reference. The distance measured 
in one direction along the Ecliptic from the Vernal Equinox is called 
the celestial longitude and the distance measured perpendicular to 
the Echptic is termed as the celestial latitude. The celestial latitude 
is absolutely different from Declination except at the two equinoctial 
points. 

In short, celestial latitude is the perpendicular distance between 
the planet and the Ecliptic, whereas the Declination is the 
perpendicular distance counted from the celestial equator to the 
planet. 

Celestial longitude is measured along the Echptic from the Vernal 
Equinox whereas RA is measured along the celestial equator from 
the Vernal Equinox in one direction. 

DEC = angle substended by the Arc XH (Fig. 3) 

RA = angle substended by the Arc MH 



Chapter 1: Fundamentals of Astronomy 7 

G 

C 
Etjuator 

ecliptic 

Fig. 3 

Cel.Long = angle substended by the Arc MG 

Cel. Latt = angle substended by the Arc XG 

If two objects are in equal DEC either on the same side of the 
celestial equator or on opposite of it, they are said to be parallel 
to each other. 

For astrological purpose, the zodiac is divided into 

i) 12 signs each of 30 degrees. 

ii) 27 Nakshatras each of 13 deg 20' 

in) 108 padas each of 3 deg 20' 

Tropic of Cancer: It is an imaginary line around the surface of the 
Earth parallel to the Equator at an angular distance of 23 deg. 27 
min. (N). On 21st June every year Sun shines at the head at Mid- 



8 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Noon. Since in Sayana system on this date Sun enters Cancer 
Sign, it is named as Tropic of Cancer. 

Tropic of Capricorn: On 23rd December of every year Sun goes 
maximum towards South on its orbit and shines above the head at 
all places whose latitude is 23 deg. 27 min. (S). The small circle at 
23 deg. 27 min. (S) is called Tropic of Capricorn because the Sun 
on this day enters the sign Capricorn in Sayana System. 

Precession of Equinoxes 

Equinoxes represent the two points of intersection of the Ecliptic 
and the celestial Equator. Sun transits over these points when Day 
and Night are equal. These points slowly move backwards. This 
is known as precession of equinoxes. 

The Precession of Equinoxes is due to the gravitational pull of 
Sun, Moon and other planets on Earth. The axis of the Earth is 
inclined to 23 degrees 27 minutes to the vertical drawn to the 
plane of the Ecliptic. Earth is a spheroid and bulges at the equator. 
Its center of gravity does not, therefore, pass through its center. 
As a result of this Sun's, Moon's and other planets gravitational 
pulls tries to pull the polar axis of Earth. Asa result of which the 
polar axis of Earth does not always point to the same pole star. 
Due to Earth's rapid motion around its axis, these pulls make the 
axis of Earth to trace a circle at the top. The North pole of the axis 
of the Earth completes its revolution around the pole of the Ecliptic 
in approximately 25,800 years. The effect of Sun, Moon and other 
planets gravitational pull gives a net amount of Precession of 
Equinoxes per year. 



Chapter 1: Fundamentals of Astronomy 3 

' to 
north 
star 

23.27' 

90 
Earth 

Fig. 4 

The rate at which the equinoxes move backwards per year is 
different according to different scholars as follows. 

AryaBhatta 46.3" 

Prasara 46.5" 

Varahamihra 50" 

New Comb 50.2388475"' 

SuryaSidhant 54.0" 

Fixed and Moving Zodiacs 

The movement of Vernal Equinox backwards means the shifting 
of the point of reference for measurement of the longitude of the 
planets. This point of reference is nothing but the point of 



10 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

intersection of the imaginary Great circle called Equator and the 
apparent path of Sun. If instead of this we fix the point of reference 
with respect to a fixed star, then the question of it's slipping 
backwards does not arise. 

Thus we find that there are two schools of thought. One school of 
thought measures the celestial longitude with respect to the actual 
point of Vernal Equinox which is moving and are said to use the 
Moving Zodiac or Tropical Zodiac. This is also called Sayana 
System. 

The other school of thought which measures the celestial longitude 
with respect to the fixed point which is 180 degrees opposite to 
the fixed star (Spica or Chitra) is said to use Fixed Zodiac or 
Sidereal Zodiac. This is also called Nirayana System. 

Ayanamsha: It is the measure of the degree by which the Vernal 
Equinox has slipped backwards or Eastwards due to the 
phenomena of Precession of Equinoxes. The calculation of this 
depends upon the following: 

1. Rate of precession of Equinoxes. 

2. The date on which the Vernal Equinox coincided with the 
fixed point of Aries i.e. 180 degrees opposite the star chitra. 

Ayanamsha plays a very significant role in Indian Astrology 
because the calculations of the Nirayana planetary positions and 
cuspal positions are obtained from their corresponding Sayana 
positions by deducting the Ayanamsha for the date of birth. 
However, since no two Astrologers agree on the rate of precession 
and the date of coincidence of the two Zodiacs, this problem has 
become very vexed. The rate of Precession followed by some 
great scholars has been given in earlier paras. The date of 
coincidence, according to some is given below: 



Chapter 1: Fundamentals of Astronomy 11 

Cheiro 388 B.C. 

C.Fagan 213 A.D. 

N.CLahiri 285A.D. 

New Comb 291 A.D. 

Sphereal 485 A.D. 

Mostly the traditionalists or Vedic Astrology followers now use 
the Ayanamsha figure calculated as per rate and date agreed upon 
by N.C. Lahiri. Krishnamurthy followers use the Ayanamsha figure 
arrived at using New Comb's rate of precession (50.2388475" 
per year) and the date of coincidence as 15th April, 291 AD. 

Synodic and Sidereal periods of planets. 

Sidereal Period: It is the time taken by a planet to complete its 
one revolution of Sun. It is always with respect to a fixed star. 

Synodic Period: It is the time taken by a planet to complete its 
rotation around Sun with respect to specific condition or 
phenomena. 

Mercury: It is the closest planet to Earth. It can be seen only in 
the morning before sunrise or in the evening after sunset. It always 
keeps its one face towards Sun, hence the year and day of Mercury 
will be equal i.e. its period of rotation around Sun and on its own 
axis will be the same. Its orbit is inclined to the horizontal plane of 
solar system at 7 degrees. 

Sidereal period of Mercury: That is the time to complete one 
revolution around the Sun, which is 87.969 Earth Days. 

Synodic period of Mercury: That is with respect to a particular 
point which in this case is taken as the nearest point to Earth and 
is 116 Earth Days. 



12 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Moon: It also keeps its one face to Earth; therefore the time taken 
by Moon to complete one revolution around Earth and around its 
own axis is same. This is equal to 27.32166 Days. It is also the 
Sidereal period of Moon. The time taken by Moon from the 
position of Full Moon to the next Full Moon is 29.5306 Days. 
This is called its Synodic period. 

Venus: Its sidereal period is 224.7 Earth Days. Its Synodic period 
i.e. the time it takes to complete its rotation fromits nearest position 
to Earth and back is 583.92 Earth Days. 

Mars: Its Sidereal period is 686.9804 Earth Days. Its Synodic 
period is 779.94 Earth Days i.e. the time it takes to complete its 
rotation fromits position nearest to Earth and back. 

Jupiter: It completes its revolution around Sun (i.e. Sidereal 
period) in 11.86 Earth years. Its Synodic period is 399 Earth 
Days. 

Saturn: Its Sidereal period is 29 Years 167 Earth Days and its 
Synodic period is 378 Earth Days. 

Traveling of Planets in Signs and Average Speed 

of Planets: 

If we observe the planets movement from northern celestial 
hemisphere it appears that the planets rotate around Sun in anti- 
clockwise direction. They complete there rotation around Sun in 
their respective Sidereal periods. The average speed of the planets 
is defined as the angular distance covered by planets per day. 

Average Speed of Sun: Fig 5 shows the movement of Sun as 
observed from Earth. When Earth is at El Sun is at 0 degree. As 
Earth revolves around Sun fromElto E2, E3 etc we find Sun to 
move to different positions. When Earth comes back to its original 
position El Sun completes 360 degrees. 



Chapter 1: Fundamentals of Astronomy 13 

120 60 

0°/360o 
180' 

210 330° 

2A0 m 
270° 

Fig. 5 

Sun crosses the whole Zodiac i.e. 360 degrees in 365.2422 Days. 
This is called its Sidereal year. 

Hence the average speed of Sun will be 360/365.2422 = 0 deg. 
59 min 10.68 sees 

Due to bulging of Earth, Sun acquires different speeds. Max speed 
of Sun is 1 deg. 01 min. 08 sec. which occurs on 3rd Jan and its 
slowest speed is 0 deg. 57 min. 08 sec. which occurs on 4th July. 

Average speed per day of other planets is as follows: 

Moon ; 360/27.32166 = 13.176358 degrees. 

Mercury : 360/87.969 = 4.0923507 degrees. 

Venus : 360/224.7 = 1.602 degrees. 

Mars : 360/686.9804 = 0.5240324 degrees. 



14 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Rahu And Ketu 
Ascending Node N_ 

'V 
i, ^ 

EartW 

K. \ Descending Node 

\ 

Distant Star 

Fig. 6 

The Earth orbits around the Sun from West to East and in the 
similar way Moon also orbits the Earth in the counter clockwise 
direction i.e. west to east. Since Moon's axis is inclined to the 
Ecliptic at 5 deg. 8 min., it will cut the Ecliptic at two points which 
are diametrically opposite to each other. These points are called 
as Ascending Node or Rahu and Descending Node or Ketu. 



Chapter 2 

Retrogression of Planets 

There is no unanimous opinion amongst Astrologers regarding the 
role played by the retrogression of planets in predictive Astrology. 
Astronomically speaking no planet retrogrades. Each planet 
revolves in its orbit around Sun at its specified speed. If the planets 
longitudes are observed from the Sun (i.e. heliocentric system) in 
the background of the Zodiac, each planet will always appear to 
be in direct motion. However, for Astrological purpose the 
longitudes of the planets are observed from the surface of the 
Earth in the background of the Zodiac. Since the distances of the 
planets from the Earth is very large as compared to the radius of 
the Earth. For all practical purposes the longitudes of the planets 
as seen by the observer on the surface of the Earth are taken as 
Geo-centric longitudes. But due to different speeds with which 
each planet orbits, the relative angular speed of the planet and the 
Earth give rise to the phenomena of retrogression of planets. The 
conditions, however, for retrogression will be different for inner 
planets (Planets whose orbits are between the orbit of Earth and 
Sun), and outer planets (Planets whose orbits are outside the orbit 
ofEarth). 

Inner Planets and Retrogression 

Mercury and Venus are the two planets whose orbits He between 
the Earth's orbit and Sun. They are called inner planets. Let us 
consider how and why Mercury appears to retrograde to an 



16 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

observer on Earth. The Sidereal period of Earth is 365.2422 days 
and that of Mercury is 87.969 days. (Refer the figure 7): 

Zodiac 

G 

Fig. 7 

Let us assume Earth is stationery and Mercury is revolving in its 
orbit around Sun at a relative angular speed between Earth and 
Mercury. It can be seen when the observer is at E, the longitude 
of Mercury when at B will be B1. The longitude of Mercury will 
appear to be increasing to an observer at E till Mercury reaches 
G However, beyond G till it reaches H, it appears that the longitude 
of Mercury is decreasing though it is still moving in the same 
direction. It may be noted that the points G and H are the tangential 
points from the plane of the observer to the plane of the orbit of 
Mercury. Beyond H, the longitude of Mercury starts increasing 
again. Thus we see Mercury's longitude appears to be decreasing 
when it was transiting between G and H. These two points or the 
Arc GH indicates that Mercury appears to retrograde when it is 
nearest to Earth. 



Chapter 2: Retrogression of Planets 17 

Similarly the Planet Venus appears to retrograde when it is nearest 
to Earth. 

Outer Planets and Retrogression 

The orbit of Jupiter and Saturn are outside Earth. These are called 
outer planets. Let us take the case of retrogression of Jupiter. The 
Sidereal period of Jupiter is 11.86 years and that of Earth is 
365.2422 days. Thus the speed at which Earth is revolving around 
Sun is much faster than the speed at which Jupiter is revolving 
around Sun. We may assume Jupiter to be stationary and Earth 
revolving around Sun at a relative angular speed between Jupiter 
and Earth. Refer the figure 8. 

£0 

o 

eft I 

"z 
Fig 8 



18 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

To an observer on the Earth, when Earth is at Elthe longitude of 
Jupiter as seen behind the Zodiac will be J1 when Jupiter is at J. 
As Earth moves fromElto E2, E3, E4the longitudes of Jupiter is 
increasing from Jlto J2, J3, and J4 respectively. However, when 
Earth further moves in the same direction only ffomE4 to E5, E6, 
E7, E8 the longitude of Jupiter appears to decrease to an observer 
on Earth. The Planet, however, appears to be stationary for few 
days at E4 and E8, as the rate of change of longitudes becomes 
very slow. 

Thus it may be noted that though neither Earth nor the Planet 
Jupiter are actually moving backwards, yet the longitude of the 
planet appears to decrease. This happens as can be seen from the 
diagram, when the planet is nearer to the Earth and almost in 
opposition to Sun. 

Similarly we can explain the retrogression of Saturn. 

Combustion of Planets 

If a planet appears to an observer on Earth to be in the same sign 
as Sun but at a few degrees away, it is said to be combust. The 
degree of combustion is proportional to its longitudinal difference 
from Sun, on either side i.e. when the longitude of Sun and the 
planet is the same, the planet is said to be completely combust. 
Different Astrologers have different opinion about the use of this 
apparent phenomenon in predictive Astrology. The degrees of 
combustion for the planets from Moon to Saturn are 12,17,14, 
11, 10 and 16. It may be noted that a planet can be said to be 
combust only when it is behind Sun and is at the farthest point 
from the Earth. Viewed from Sun i.e. in heliocentric system, no 
such thing will appear. Each planet, to me, appears to be 
individualistic and its effect in predictive Astrology needs 
only to be taken as per its Zodiacal degree. 



Chapter 3 

Zodiac and its Division 

To a student of Astronomy, the zodiac is merely an imaginary 
pathway where he can locate the planets Sun, Moon, Saturn, 
Jupiter, Mars, Mercury and Venus and also the shadowy planets 
Rahu and Ketu. But an Astrologer regards it as a storehouse of 
energy which exercises a significant influence on the planets. 
However, according to our ancients the different parts or areas of 
the Zodiac has different modifying influence. As such to study the 
Zodiac, it is pertinent to divide the Zodiac on sound cosmic 
principles to enunciate their true significance. 

The Zodiac to an Astrologer appears to be a limiting circle of 
Earth's aura, the field and store house of all that was, is and is to 
be i.e. Past, Present and Future. It is a vast stage upon which the 
great drama of life is enacted. The planets are the principle actors 
who have to play their role under the direction of the Zodiacal 
influence. 

Division of Zodiac: 

To an observer on Earth the Zodiac appears to be a circle and 
subtends an angle of 360 deg. It is divided into 12 parts, each of 
30 deg. Each part is called a Sign or Rashi. Starting from the 
Vernal Equinox the division of the Zodiac into signs is shown at 
page. 



20 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Area English Indian Syml 
Name Name 

1. 0-30 Aries Mesh T 

2. 30-60 Taums Vrishabh tf 

3. 60-90 Gemini Mithun n 

4. 90-120 Cancer Karkatak 25 

5. 120-150 Leo Sirnha 

6. 150-180 Virgo Kanya 

7. 180-210 Libra Tula 

8. 210-240 Scorpio Vrischik TO. 

9. 240-270 Sagittarius Dhanu 

10. 270-300 Capricorn Makar * 

11. 300-330 Aquarius Kumbh S5 

12. 330-360 Pisces Meena K 

The division of Zodiac is done on the principles of Law of Polarity, 
Law of Elements (Tattwa) and Mode of Action. 

Positive and Negative Signs: 

The Zodiac is first divided into two halves using the Principle of 
Polarity as explained in Taoism under the names of yang and yin in 
Taoist scripture "The secrets of the golden flower". This gives us 
what we call as Positive and Negative signs or Masculine and 
Feminine signs. Astrologically the positive signs represent the 
manifest, The Sun being the principal ruler. The negative signs 
represent the un-manifest, The Moon being the principle ruler. 
The division is shown diagrammatically in fig. 9 



Chapter 3: Zodiac and its Division 21 

The Zodiac 

Negative Signs 
T aurus, Cancer 
Virgo, Scorpio 

Capricorn, Pisces 

Fig. 9 

General Characteristics of Positive Signs: 

The Principle of Positivism is that which is outgoing, active and 
manifest, love for change, performance, look for achievement in 
the future, self-assertion, determination, power of will and force, 
self-opinionism. Positive sign on Ascendant gives vitality, initiative, 
extrovertism, an irresistible attraction, gay abundance. In terms of 
psychology we may say the positive signs represent the conscious. 

General Characteristics of Negative Signs: 

The Principle of Negativity is that negativity is indrawn, passive 
and unmanifest, receptive, defensive. Sorrow in some form seems 
part of the heritage of the negative signs. Negative signs appearing 
on the ascendant make the persons to accept the things as they 
are but have generally richer inner life. They look to the past than 
the future; feel disappointed; privacy of action is congenial to this 
type. In terms of psychology we may say negative signs represent 
the unconscious. The negative type requires stimulation. 



22 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Fiery-Earthy-Airy-Watery Signs: 

The dichotomy (which gives the Masculine and Feminine signs) 
operates a second time. The positive or masculine signs, in 
accordance with Law of Elements, falls in two groups viz. fire and 

air and the negative or feminine signs in two groups viz. earthy and 
watery. This is shown diagrammaticaUy in Fig. 10 

The Zodiac 

Positive Signs Negative Signs 

I—1—I I—  1 
Fiery Airy Earthy Watery 

Aries, Leo Gemini, Libra Taurus, Virgo Cancer, Scorpio 
Sagittarius Aquarius Capricorn Pisces 

Fig. 10 

General Characteristics of Fiery Signs: 

Sri Aurobindo defined Fire as "Strength and force, beauty and 
splendour, leading and pre-eminence." They show courage, 
strength, determination, aggression and confidence. Fire is related 
to spirituality, religion, magnanimity, and self-assertion. It is 
characterised by too much emotional development Such characters 
soar high but often fall equally low. It produces pseudo-mystics. 
It is said; 'Fire is the element of the will and an irresponsible prophet 
only acting at lucky hits.' Fire loves the future, it gives rise to 
proud, enterprising and commanding disposition with a desire to 
lead others possesses a spiritual bent of mind. It gives rise to 
fevers and inflammatory diseases. Misuse of fiery element produces 
profligates, tyrannical and self-willed. 



Chapters: Zodiac and its Division 23 

Fire indicates outward expression of emotion, passion and 
enthusiasm. People with a strong emphasis of the fire element are 
spontaneous and impulsive, they apply their energies 
wholeheartedly. Their emotional response is quick and they have 
a lively imagination. 

If in a horoscope fiery signs dominate than the person would like 
to choose professions like an engineer, trade union leaders, 
professions which deal with engines and automobiles, surgeons, 
barber etc. 

Excess fire can make a person angry, hot-tempered, violent and 
aggressive. It may cause heartburn, liver problems such as hepatitis, 
and stomach problems such as ulcers, gallbladder problems, 
inflammation and fevers. Lack of fire causes poor circulation with 
cold extremities, poor muscle tone, low vitality, indigestion, lack 
of courage and confidence. 

General Characteristics of Airy Signs: 

Too great devotion to intellectualism, resulting in a purely 
philosophical view of religion. Airy signs are connected with mind 
and mental experience, fertile imagination, artistic and idealistic 
nature, inquisitiveness, power of reasoning, balanced approach, 
but lack assertion. 

People with-emphasis of Air element are driven by the mind, intellect 
and are theoretical in approach. Airy people are quick and 
animated. They apply their energies in very diverse ways. They 
tend to intellectualize their feelings and expectations. These people 
make good astrologers, advisors, lawyers, scientists etc. These 
signs denote professions as philanthropists, writers, authors, 
accountants, bookkeepers, poets, lecturers, pilots, philosophers 
and all kinds of consultants. 



24 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Disturbance of Air element brings about difficulties in the 
movements of the limbs. The Air element governs the respiratory 
and nervous system. An excess of Airy element can make a person 
restless, anxious and jittery. Stiffness of joints as in arthritis, 
flatulence, asthma and nervous disorders usually manifest when 
there is excess of Airy element. Lack of Air element may lead to 
difficulties in perception, tiredness, shortness of breath, and lethargic 
movement. 

General Characteristics of Earthy Signs: 

Earth is an element which tends to, too great pragmatism, solidarity 
and stability. It is related to concrete mind, that which knows what 
the thing is, or what its significance is. The ideal of "common sense 
religion" appeals to them. There is desire to make money, to seek 
power and position. They are cautious, pre-meditative, secretive, 
suspicious, reserved, methodical, economical and materialistic in 
approach. 

Earth element refers to the practical portion of the mind. Earthy 
people react quietly and slowly. They apply themselves with 
endurance, Emotionally they are deeply rooted and slow to change. 

Earthy signs govern professions such as administration, civil 
services, economics, property, buildings, agriculture, mining, food 
items coming directly from earth, furniture and other wood or 
timbre related business. 

When Earth element is disturbed, it results in causing the disease 
of flesh, teeth, skin, joints, nails, bones, tendons, muscles, and 
hairs. It may also manifest as sluggishness and depression. 



Chapters: Zodiac and its Division 25 

General Characteristic of Watery Signs: 

Loves the past, has the fertile imagination, timid disposition, and 
unwilling to act, but receptive, contemplative, sensitive, sentimental, 
and psychic; they display love for the occult science. According 
to Alan Leo "The watery signs are the least fortunate giving 
sensitiveness and often lack of energy." 

Water refers to inner experience of emotion, feelings and their 
impact. People with a strongly emphasized water element are 
feeling types and are very sensitive. Their imaginative and emotional 
lives are deep and rich. 

Professions indicated by watery signs are sailors, wine merchants, 
shipping business, marine engineers, merchant navy. Such persons 
deal in chemicals, petroleum and all sorts of liquids. They also 
engage in professions connected with dairy farming, food, 
underwater mining and fishing. 

Water rules the lymphatic system and all fluids in the body, such 
as blood and various secretions. The excited element water brings 
about disorders in blood, urine, perspiration, semen, lymphatic 
congestion and saliva. Persons with lack of Water element often 
suffer from thirst and dehydration. 

Rajasic Tamasic and Sattwic Signs: 

The next important division of the Zodiac is based on the most 
important Law of Motion known in Hindu scripture as Three Gunas 
called Rajasic, Tamasic and Sattwic attributes or in common 
language as dynamic, static and harmonious or ideal and in 
astrological language as Cardinal, Fixed and Common or Mutable. 
Refer fig 11. 



26 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

The Zodiac 

Cardinal Fixed Common 
Aries, Cancer Taurus, Leo Gemini, Virgo 

Libra, Capricorn Scorpio, Aquarius Sagittarius, Pisces 

Fig. 11 

General Characteristics of Cardinal Signs: 

Prompt in action, enterprise, the doer and the one who dares, go 
for fame, recognition and popularity, effect change and reform, 
the capacity to overcome impediments, self assertion and dislike 
for dependence. 

People with an emphasis on cardinal signs have an urge to take 
the lead and to shape things. They are initiators and act according 
to their aims and goals. 

General Characteristics of Fixed Signs: 

Stability, authoritativeness, expert at ordering and arrangement, 
strong and determined with remarkable patience, self-reliance and 
very pragmatic but conservative in approach, firmness in mental 
approach, difficult to change, care for fixity and permanence. All 
the fixed signs have ideals of stability and dependability. 

People with an emphasis on the fixed signs have a desire to build 
on what is already there and to organize it more efficiently. They 
tend to preserve a "status quo" and act in response to given 
circumstances. 



Chapter 3: Zodiac and its Division 27 

General Characteristics of Common Signs: 

Mental alertness, inquisitiveness, adaptability, a learner and a 
teacher, flexibility, intellectualism, subtle sensitivity, sympathetic 
approach, argumentation, discrimination, aversion to strenuous 
work.. 

People with an emphasis on the mutable or common signs tend to 
seek change and renewal. They can easily replace one thing with 
another and align their actions with unfolding processes. 

Other important classification of Signs: 

Fertile Signs ; All watery signs (Cancer, Scorpio, 
Pisces) are said to be fruitful. 

Barren Signs Aries, Gemini, Leo, Virgo are called 
Barren signs. 

Mute Signs All watery signs are said to be mute signs. 

Violent Signs Aries, Scorpio. 

Human Signs Gemini, Virgo, Aquarius and 1st half of 
Sagittarius 

Voice Signs Gemini, Libra, Aquarius. 

Bicorporal or Gemini, 1st half of Sagittarius, Pisces 

Double- Bodied Signs 

Short and Long Ascension Signs: 

Earth being a sphere, its movement around its axis makes some 
signs to take less time to ascend. They are called signs of short 
ascension. These are Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Capricorn, Aquarius 
and Pisces. The signs, which take more time to ascend, are called 



28 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

long ascension signs. These are Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio 
and Sagittarius. 

Characteristics of Signs: 

The philosophy or the methodology behind the analysis of the 
characteristics of signs can be stated as follows: 

1. Nature of the sign based on the Law of Polarity, Law of 
Element and Law of Motion. 

2. Who is the ruler of the sign? Refer chapter 7. 

3. Which planet gets exaltation or debilitation or detriment in 
the sign? Refer chapter 7. 

4. Correspondence with the house/houses in the natural zodiac. 

The purpose of the study of the characteristics of the sign is two- 
fold. 

1. The influence of its characteristics on the significations of 
the house where the sign rises in the horoscope. 

2. Ho w it modifies the behaviour of the planet positioned in it. 

Aries: 

It is positive, fiery, Rajasic, barren and sign of Short Ascension. 
By the Principle of Correspondence, Mars rules over it and Sun 
gets its exaltation. It is detriment to Venus and Saturn gets 
debilitation. It rules East direction. 

General Significations: 

Aries is full of vitality; it's pioneering and independent attitude in 
its thinking and comes up with new ideas. There is a burning desire 
to dominate. Aries is self-opinionated, dark and go-ahead nature. 



Chapters: Zodiac and its Division 29 

There is ambition, assertion, audacity and impulse. Unbounded 
confidence in his self and in the cause he espouses for the time 
being, makes him persistent in his efforts and makes for his 
unsurpassed executive ability. Aries chief faults are over-eagemess, 
self-will, egoism, a hasty temper, liable to change his views suddenly 
and lack of discretion. Arians have so much power and energy 
that they tend to bum themselves up. A great many Arians are, in 
fact, quiet and ostentatious. Arians are solely concerned with 
action, rather than glamour and the trappings of power. 

Physical Characteristics: 

Long neck, bony or angular face, middle stature, lean and muscular 
body. Ruddy complexion; crisp and wiry hair, broad temples; 
narrow chin; prodding teeth and round eyes. 

Profession: 

Defence personals, surgeons, butchers, chemists, hair dressers, 
watch makers, dealer in sports goods, mechanics, wrestlers, body 
builders, boxers, smiths, tailors, cooks, carpenters, metallurgists, 
real estate dealers. 

Body Parts: 

Brain, cerebral hemispheres, cranium, eyes, face, upperjaw, 
internal carotid arteries. 

Diseases: 

Head injuries, neuralgia; inflammatory diseases, pains, brain and 
cerebral hemorrhage, cerebral meningitis, migraine headaches, 
small-pox, coma, trance conditions. Aries mles the motor centers 
of the brain and the circulation of the blood through the skull region. 
Aries is generally involved with the inflammation of the brain that 



30 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

may cause delirium, frenzy, vertigo, dizziness, and sharp pains in 
the head. It may also cause Bell's palsy wherein nerves are inflamed 
and paralysis sets in. 

It also accounts for eczema of the head and face, acne, aphasia, 
anxiety, baldness, dandruff, and loss of memory. 

By a reflex action Planets in Aries may cause problem in kidneys. 
Other diseases caused by Aries are various forms of toxemia. 
The toxemia in kidneys may induce skin ailments. By the principle 
of cross flow of energy afflictions of Aries may also cause diseases 
of Cancer and Capricorn namely edema, digestive problems, hiatus 
hernia, loss of appetite, cysts in the breast region, gallbladder 
problem, knee problem etc. 

Education: 

Agriculture, Electronic, Civil and Mechanical engg, Zoology, 
Botany, Petro-cheraical engg, Home science, Industrial 
organization, Printing technology, Dental Surgery. 

Places: Hilly ground, Stables for small cattle, lands recently 
ploughed hide-outs of thieves. 

Commodities: Cotton, Barley, Wheat, Woolen, Beans, Leather. 

Countries: England, Germany, Peru, Syria. 

Taurus: 

It is feminine, Earthy and fixed sign. By the principle of 
correspondence Venus is said to rule this Sign; Moon gets its 
exaltation and Mars gets its detriment. It rules over South direction. 
It rules over neck and throat. 



Chapters: Zodiac and its Division 31 

General Characteristics: 

It is passive, comfort-loving, and content, looks to the past, accepts 
things as they are. Taurus produces tremendous sexuality, 
materiality and love for the enjoyment of pleasures of life. It is 
sensuous, amorous, passionate, obstinate, proud, determined. It 
is stubbornly self-willed, unyielding. The mind tends to be shallow 
and stupid. Fidelity and consistency are the sign's virtues; obstinacy 
and a refusal to recognize the necessity for change are its 
weaknesses. Being sensualists, many Taureans are fond of smart 
clothes, jewelery, and perfume, but their desire for a comfortable 
and leisured lifestyle can mean quite the opposite-that they prefer 
their old and comfortable clothes. 

Taurus person is slow to anger, but when provoked, he is difficult 
to be appeased. Possessing much self-will and self esteem, he 
can carry out many a plan cheerfully and successfully. He is often 
self-centred and a tittle selfish. Belonging to an earthy sign, he is 
patient and persevering, and earns money through persistent and 
steady work. The Taurean's knowledge and intuition are deep 
set, and hence, the native is not verbose. 

Physical Characteristics: 

Full forehead, full lips and nostrils; dark eyes, body plumpy, solidly 
built and stocky, broad shoulders, heavy thighs. Taureans are said 
to be of short, stocky stature, with strong shoulders and large 
necks. 

Profession: 

Musicians, Film producers, Tax collectors, Personals in Agriculture 
and Revenue Department, painter, decorators, taxi drivers, dealers 
of flowers, glasses, mica, plastic, rubber, sugar, and dress makers. 



32 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

The occupations governed by Taurus also include dealers in 
property, cement, luxury goods, entertainment and amusement 
industry, sugar, milk and cotton. 

Body Parts: 

Neck, throat, palate, larynx, tonsils, lower jaw, ears, occipital 
region, cerebellum, atlas, axis, external carotid arteries, jugular 
veins, pharynx, thyroid gland, cervical vertebrae. 

Diseases: 

Goiter, diphtheria, disease of cervical vertebrate, Fistula, piles, 
venereal diseases, irregular menses, nasal mucous, polyps in the 
throat, laryngitis, mumps, fungus infection of the mouth, enlarged 
tonsils, tonsillitis, loss of voice, suffocation and hypo function of 
thyroid gland, croup and apoplexy. By reflex action it reacts upon 
the opposite sign Scorpio parts and cause disease of the colon, 
venereal diseases, constipation. 

Taurus rules the neck, throat, palate, larynx and tonsils, lower 
jaw, ears, and occipital region. The cerebellum and cervical 
vertebrae is also under the rule of Taurus. It also rules over the 
veins of the thyroid gland.lt maintains homeostatis (harmone 
regulation, keeping things in equibilibrium). 

By the principle of cross flow of energy, afflictions of Taums may 
also cause diseases of the other signs of the fixed cross namely 
Leo, Scorpio and Aquarius. This may be atrophy of the heart, 
myocarditis, blood poisoning, and colon stasis, stones in the 
bladder, under developed ovaries or testicles 

Education: 

Cost Auditing, Music, Chemical engg, ENT, Veterinary, sociology, 
psychology, plastics, designing, interior decoration, hotel 



Chapters: Zodiac and its Division 33 

management, petro-chemical engg, nursing, skin, dentist, Auto- 
mobile engg, Cinematography, film making, sculpture. 

Places: Cow- houses, cattle shed furniture marts, low rooms and 
sellers. 

Commodities: Flowers, Barley, wheat, clothes, mineral products. 

Countries: Ireland, Persia, Poland, Cypress, Asia-Minor, Russia. 

Gemini: 

It is Positive, Airy, Mutable, humane, bicorporal but barren. 
Mercury rules over it. No planet gets exaltation or debilitation 
here. Jupiter finds it as its detriment. It rules West direction. 

General Significations: 

It stands for Mind and the creative process of manifestation. It 
symbolises intellectual perception; it is artistic, learned, curious, 
and eloquent in speech or writing, Gemini's approach and 
expression are basically materialistic. Conflict and instability are 
important characteristics of Gemini. It may give rise to depression, 
suicidal tendencies, excitement and a great thirst for indulgence, 
argumentation for the sake of arguments. Negative attributes of 
Gemini's are creating disorder everywhere and a scatter- brain. 
The positive Gemini is quick in perception and quick in action. 
The native of this sign is bold and upright with a keen understanding 
of human nature. He is quite humane and sympathetic. As Mercury 
rules this sign, the person of Gemini tries to have smattering of 
every branch of learning. But this unusual versatility in him does 
not enable him to finish to perfection every pursuit. Contradictions 
are not uncommon with him. However due to his unusual power 
of adaptability, he fits in everywhere most admirably. 



34 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Geminians are often maddeningly inconsistent; they can argue one 
point of view one day and the completely opposite view on the 
next. Geminians are, however, versatile and can turn their hands 
to more than one thing at the same time. If their talents are spread 
too thinly, they may not achieve their aims. 

Physical Characteristics: 

Tall, slender, elegant, wide fore-head, long face, fine expressive 
eyes, straight nose. 

Profession: 

Gemini indicates such profession as connected with literary field, 
communications, journalism, and marketing. 

Professors, teachers, publishers, editors, solicitors, advocates, 
Astrologers, mathematicians, typists, clerks, traveling agents, 
employees in communication, transport and railway department, 
postal employees, stationary dealers, engineering contractors, 
poets, authors, painters, brokers, successful merchants, 
accountants. 

Body Parts: 

Shoulders, arms, hands, upper ribs, lungs, trachea, bronchi, 
capillaries, breath, oxygenation of blood, nervous system. 

Diseases: 

Mercury the ruler of Gemini rules over all three humours and 
elements Earth and Air predominantly. It controls the function of 
thyroid, right cerebral hemisphere, and the motor segment of the 
spinal cord, the central nervous system, hands, arms, shoulders 
and the vocal cord. Above all Gemini rules over all tubes in the 



Chapter 3: Zodiac and its Division 35 

body like fallopian tubes, the bronchial tubes of the lungs, the 
trachea, and the ureter tubes from the kidneys and urethra from 
bladder to outside opening. 

Dry cough, shallow breathing, edema of the lungs, asthma, 
pneumonia, bronchitis, pleurisy, blood and lung disorders, cuts, 
fractures and wounds of the arms Eosinophilia, T.B, affection of 
hands and shoulders, influenza, rheumatism or arthritis of the arms; 
hands or shoulders; dislocation of the arm or shoulder, lung 
congestion, fibrosis of the lungs or tumors in the lungs. 

By the principle of cross afflictions of Gemini may also cause 
diseases of the other signs of the mutable cross viz. sclerosis of 
the liver, lymphatic stasis, hip-joint disease, dislocation of pelvis. 

Education: 

Telecommunications, Textile engg, Journalism, Statistics, 
Astrophysics, Atomic energy, printing, commerce, company 
secretary ship, Auditing, financial management, revenue collection. 

Places: coffers, suit cases, hills, mountains and high places, dining 
rooms, schools, nurseries, places ofleaming. 

Countries: U.S. A, Belgium, North Africa, Wales, London, New 
Orleans. 

Commodities: Creepers, Autumnal crops, lily root, cotton. 

Cancer: 

It is a feminine, watery, moveable, fertile but mute sign. By the 
principle of correspondence Moon is said to rule over this sign; 
Jupiter gets exaltation; Mars gets debilitation and Saturn finds it 
as its detriment. It rules over North direction. 



36 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

General Characteristics: 

It provides sustenance, protection, prudence. It is sympathetic, 
imaginative and romantic, inclined to public life, roving disposition, 
changeful. It is conservative, generous to the point of sacrifice. 
On the negative side it is domineering, possessive and demanding, 
as well as weak. Cancer is a creature of moods. Hypersensitivity 
is of course the secret, and it finds emotional strain hard to bear. 

Cancer is a sign of compassion and embodies all that is best in the 
caring, maternal instincts, but it often hides its emotions behind a 
mask that denies these inner feelings. They are vulnerable and 
easily hurt. Concerian emotions fluctuate, but they are tenacious, 
even ruthless, when it comes to defending their family and friends. 

Physical Characteristics: 

Wide chest, rounded body, broad forehead, grey eyes, full face, 
fleshy body, double chin, mature ears. Hands and feet are small. 

Profession: 

Historians, personals working in ship and sub-marines, 
archaeological department, Dealers in pearls, conches, fishes, 
Sailors, sea captain, explorers, State ministers and advisors, liquid. 

Body Parts: 

Stomach, esophagus, diaphragm, the mammae, lacteals, upper 
lobes of liver, thoracic duct, pancreas, serum of blood, peristalsis 
of the stomach, chymification. 

Diseases: 

Cancer rules over all coverings in the body like uterus, pericardium 
of the heart, meninges of the brain, eye socket. It rules the 



Chapters: Zodiac and its Division 37 

esophagus, stomach, diaphragm, upper lobes of liver, and thoracic 
duct. 

Afflictions in cancer causes gas trouble, stomach disorders, 
indigestion, cough, Hi-cough, dropsy, hypochondria, hysteria, 
gallstones, breast disorders and edema caused by the hypo 
functioning of the pituitary gland or lack of sufficient potassium to 
regulate the balance with sodium in the body, and jaundice. It also 
cause after birth pains, abortion, falling of womb, miscarriage, 
acidity, carcinoma. 

By the principle of cross flow of energy afflictions of cancer may 
also cause diseases of the other signs of the cardinal cross viz. 
loss of blood in the brain, apathy, suppression of urine, poor 
functioning of kidney, renal retention, hypo functioning of gall 
bladder, the release of too little bile causing digestive problems. 

Education: 

Political science, Marine engg, water works engg., Bookbinding, 
agriculture, Drafts man, Agricultural, economics, Instrumental engg, 
Music, Marketing education, Geology. 

Places: Rivers, sea, canals, wells, springs, marshes, ditches, car 
stand, fields near the sea. 

Countries: China, Holland, Canada, New Zealand, and New 
York. 

Commodities: Grass leaves, Barks, plantain fruits, milk and milky 
products, cabbage, mushroom. 

Leo: 

It is masculine, fiery, fixed, barren, bestial and of long ascension. 
By the principle of correspondence Sun rules over this sign. No 



38 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

planet gets exaltation or debilitation in it. Saturn finds it as its 
detriment. It rules over East direction. 

General Characteristics: 

Leo is Self-centered, aspiring, ambitious, arrogant, fierce in action, 
calculating in sexual encounters, choosy in social relationship. It 
represents frankness, magnanimity, self-sufficiency, creativity, 
susceptibility to praise and flattery. Its supreme quality is its 
suddenness, aggression and frontal attack. Leo is ostentation, 
egotistical, proud and showmanship. Classic Leo types are often 
recognized by their colourful dress, red and gold being their 
favourite colours. 

Leo's passion is deeply attractive, but the very depth of its feeling 
means that it can be difficult to love or to work with. For Leo 
types, "Love is blind". Their affections are more self-centred rather 
than universal. Honour to Leo types comes almost unsought for. 

Leo individuals are very generous by nature and find it very easy 
to express themselves. They easily forgive people who have hurt 
them and seldom carry grudges. Most of them are theistic by 
nature and believe in the 'Supreme Being'. Leos have a very fiery 
spirit and love to indulge in adventurous activities. 

It is said that a Leo-bom is not satisfied with the material heights 
he attains; he is always aspiring towards greater intellect, greater 
wealth, greater status, and greater respect. Often he thinks that he 
has achieved more than he really has; nevertheless, he is never 
satisfied. 

Physical characteristics: 

Strong, broad shoulders, upright wall wavy hair, cheerful 
expression, majestic appearance, fearless eyes. 



Chapters: Zodiac and its Division 39 

Profession: 

Share brokers, gold smith, managers of corporation, sports coach, 
director of cinemas, officers, doctors, sales managers. Their ideal 
career is acting, and they are often found in work connected with 
the performing arts. The sign also gives civil servants, politicians, 
ministers, connected with government in any manner, C.E.O of 
large enterprises, ambassadors. 

Body Parts: 

Heart, dorsal region of spine, spinal cord, aorta, superior and 
inferior vena cava. 

Diseases: 

Leo rales the heart, the dorsal region of the spine, the spinal cord, 
and the aorta. 

Afflictions in Leo cause palpitation, feeling giddy, fainting, 
convulsions and heart problems, spinal meningitis, angina pectorisis, 
anemia, regurgitation of blood, hypertrophy, pahcarditis, muscular 
rheumatism in the back, cholesterol-related degeneration of the 
heart or aortic arteries, constriction of the arteries or veins leading 
to the heart. 

By the principle of cross flow of energy afflictions of Leo may 
also cause diseases relate to other signs of fixed cross viz. hardening 
of arteries, retina problems, blood poisoning, colon stasis etc. 

Education: 

History, Ayurvedic medicine; general medicine, chemistry, computer 
system engineering, obstetrics, architecture, B.Ed., M.B.A., chest 
diseases, radiology, electrology, hospital administration. 



40 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Places: 

Forests, High hills, social clubhouses; Govt. buildings, stock 
exchanges, gold mines, mint, furnace, chimney, oven, ball-rooms. 

Countries: Australia, Argentina, Japan, Burma, France, Rome, 
Prague, Damascus, Philadelphia, Chicago. 

Commodities: Juice, Food Grains, Lion's skin. 

Virgo: 

It is Feminine, Earthy, and Mutable, barren and humane sign. By 
the principle of correspondence Mercury rules over it and also 
gets exaltation; Venus gets debilitation and Jupiter finds it as its 
detriment. It rules over South direction. 

General characteristics: 

It strives for perfection, arouses conscience and suffering for noble 
cause; produces intense activity in the realm of intellect and psychic 
consciousness, but no merriment. It is a sign of great sensitivity, 
precision, resentfulness, self-pity, versatility. Virgo is industrious, 
a real business person with logical outlook and with few 
pretensions. Virgoans are often too fussy, over concerned with 
cleanliness and order, and unable to deal with spontaneity and 
chaos. 

Virgoans are natural bureaucrats, but socially they tend to be shy 
and lack confidence when expressing their feelings. They have 
very high standards but can be overcritical. If critical of themselves, 
they can seriously erode their confidence. 

It is said that a Virgo-bom is easily frustrated and his passionate 
nature often leads to serious psychological complications. 



Chapters: Zodiac and its Division 41 

Physical characteristics: 

Straight nose, active walk, quiet voice, tall with a slender body, 
curved eyebrows with much hair growth, young appearance, honest 
and frank eye expression. 

Profession: 

Medical doctors, Personals working in Public Health Department, 
Govt. Service, Aviation Department, Teachers, Auditors, caterers, 
confectioners, paper dealers, computer and software experts, 
astrologers, psychiatrists, land owners. 

Body Parts: 

Abdominal region, large and small intestines, lower lobe of liver, 
spleen, duodenum, chylification, peristalsis of the bowels. 

Diseases: 

It rules abdominal region, lower lobes of liver, pancreas, large 
intestines and spleen. Virgo's main function is to break down, 
analyse and organize. These functions are especially evident in the 
functioning of liver and pancreas. 

Afflictions in Virgo may cause gastroenteritis, hyper insulinism, 
enlarged liver, abscess of the liver, jaundice, typhoid, cholera, 
Appendicitis, Loose motions, Tapeworm, round worm, hook 
worms, peritonitis, diabetic or hypoglycemic complaints as well 
as colitis and diarrhea. 

By the principle of cross flow of energy afflictions of Virgo may 
also cause diseases of the other signs of the mutable cross viz. 
constriction or malfunctioning of some tubes in the body, lymphatic 
stasis which may incline towards severe and continued colds and 
flue, dislocation of pelvis etc. 



42 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Education: 

Doctor of literature, Neurology, Health education, Dental Surgery, 
Tourism, Teacher Training, Electrical Engineering, Diploma in 
Leprosy. 

Places: 

Gardens, corn-fields, places where fruits and vegetables are kept, 
the store-room, book-shelves, first aid-box, libraries, diaries. 

Countries: Turkey, Greece, Switzerland, West Indies. 

Commodities: Barley, Horse-gram, wheat, common flax, Kidney 
beans. 

Libra: 

It is masculine, airy and moveable. Venus rales over it and Saturn 
gets exaltation; Sun gets debilitation and Mars finds it as its 
detriment. It rales over West direction. 

General Characteristics: 

It operates on the principle of Reciprocity or Mutuality. It is 
enigmatic, artistic, critic, restless, independent, changeable and 
sentimental. It never remains stationary; there is a thirst for greater 
and greater achievement. It bestows material riches but does not 
allow the person to enjoy them. There is quietude at the surface, 
but inwardly there is dissatisfaction. It is a sign, which operates 
primarily in the region of materiality. Libra being an airy sign, and 
a cardinal one, it's native is leader in mental realms, and is an 
ardent lover of nature and its beauties. He always craves for 
society. Above all he has humanitarian instincts and unassuming 
nature. 



Chapters: Zodiac and its Division 43 

This sign's paradox is that it aims to create a balance that can 
never really exist in a world undergoing constant change. Libran's 
artistic qualities enable them to create beautiful and pleasing 
environments, so they can be cordial company both at home and 
at work. They thrive in social groups, being bom diplomats, bringing 
enemies together to make them friends. It is said that a Libra- 
bom is also subject to contradictory thoughts and actions; he is 
justice loving but easily irritated. He may have a strong desire for 
artistic achievement but fail to actualize it. 

Physical Characteristics: 

Tall, elegant figure, well proportional body, slender but strong limbs, 
fair skin, attractive countenance, eye brows add to the beauty, 
gets bald in adult age, nose bent a little like a parrot. 

Profession: 

Druggists, chemists, painters, dealers in foodand milk, juicy fruits, 
biscuits and confectionary, musicians, artists, architects, nursery 
owner, profession connected with fine arts, cinema actors, music 
composers, and dancers. The professions related with Libra also 
include Judges, diplomats, management consultants, officers of 
law, actors, interior decorators, photographers, perfume 
manufactures, fashion designers, owners of cabaret and night clubs, 
prostitutes, air hostesses, pilots, liaison officers and receptionists. 

Body Parts: 

Kidneys, adrenals, lumbar region, skin, ureters, vasomotor system, 
buttocks 



44 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Diseases: 

Libra rules kidneys, private parts, the lumbar region of the spine, 
the vasomotor system and the skin, urinary tract. 

Afflictions of Libra may cause suppression of the urine, polyuria, 
inflammation of the uterus, Blight's disease, lumbago, Rheumatic 
pains, Eczema, skin disease, kidney problems like nephritis. Libra 
also rules the basal metabolism, specifically the acid-alkaline 
metabolism. Blood disorders from simple anemia to a pseudo 
leukemia and high white blood cell count can also be caused by a 
malfunctioning of kidney. 

By the principle of cross flow of energy afflictions of Libra may 
also cause diseases of the other signs of the cardinal cross. 

Education: 

Agriculture, Ayurvedic medicine, Chemistry, Master of Arts, library 
and information science, Master of Surgery, Dermatology, 
Radiology and electrology, Homeopathic medicine, Textile 
Engineering. 

Places: Sawpits, ground near windmills, outhouses, mountain tops, 
sides of hills, inner chamber. 

Countries: Burma, Indo-China, China, Argentina, Upper Egypt, 
Libya, Austria. 

Commodities: Black grain, Mustard seed, wheat. 

Scorpio: 

It is feminine, watery, fixed and fertile sign. Mars owns the sign 
and Moon gets debilitation. No planet exalts here. It rules North 
direction. It is considered as a very violent sign. 



Chapter 3: Zodiac and its Division 45 

General Characteristics: 

It represents perceptiveness, shrewdness, penetration, 
perseverance, loyalty and creative desires. Secrecy rules supreme 
in all aspects of life. It brings much conflict, destruction and chaos, 
turmoil, upsets and unexpected developments arise. It has profound 
belief in sell- training and sell- discipline. It signifies energies which, 
if properly managed, could lead to a tremendous unfoldment of 
psychic powers. Its delusion is that of despotism, and from this 
arise the fault of rebelliousness. 

Those bom under this sign have an instinctive sense of what is 
right and what is wrong, and though this may be in contradiction 
to accepted morality, it nevertheless provides a powerful personal 
motivation. They are usually interested in all things deep, dark, or 
hidden, which covers a wide range of activities. The Scorpionic 
solution to any problem is either to hide away, pretending that it 
doesn't exist, or go to the other extreme and strive for complete 
and total change, even at the risk of total and hard-hitting 
confrontation. 

Scorpian can never display a superficial knowledge till he thinks 
he is thorough. Enormous confidence in his executive ability makes 
him put off things to the last moment. Unnecessary and undeserved 
false talks cannot be easily borne by him. It is said that the life of 
a Scorpio-bom is a bag of mixed achievement and frustration. 

Physical Characteristics: 

Dark or dusky complexion, well-proportioned body, hands are 
generally long, stature above average, broad face, commanding 
appearance, short and curly hair. Good personality. 



46 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Profession: 

Surgeons, military and police officers, profession in science or 
technology, chemistry, medicine, beverage, boilers, dam 
construction, labour department, machinery, tea, coffee, tobacco, 
rice mills, detectives, house construction, nurses, criminals, police 
and defence officials. 

They may become psychologists, therapists, archeologists, 
historians, healers, miners, astronomers, astrologers, detectives 
or members of mysterious religious cults or political groups. 

Body Parts: 

Bladder, urethra, genitals, descending colon, prostate gland, 
sigmoid flexure, nasal bone, pubic bone, red coloring matter in 
blood, reproductive system, sexual organs, bowels, excretory 
system. 

Diseases: 

Scorpio rales over the prostrate gland and the reproductive system, 
and function governing the colon and bladder infection. 

Affliction of Scorpio may cause diseases of prostrate glands, nasal 
catarrh, venereal diseases, infection troubles in urethra and 
generative organs, piles, fistula, rectum, bladder, descending colon, 
irregularities of menses, renal stone, diseases of the womb and 
ovaries, and leucorrhoea; disorders of the fallopian tubes or 
testicles, stones in bladder and fungus infection. 

By the principle of cross flow of energy affliction of Scorpio may 
cause diseases of the back and heart (Leo), thyroid (Taurus) and 
eyes (Aquarius) the other signs in the fixed cross. The upshot is 
that cataracts or glaucoma, back ailments or heart conditions may 
actually be caused by malfunctioning colon. 



Chapters: Zodiac and its Division 47 

Education: 

Civil engineering, agriculture engineering, Business administration, 
Law, medicine, surgery, Physical education, literature, Corporate 
secretaryship. 

Places: muddy and moist places, kitchen- garden, sluggish 
streams, slaughterhouse, meat markets, tannery, cremation ground. 

Countries: Brazil, Norway, Sweden, Syria, Algeria, Queensland, 
Morocco. 

Commodities: Wet grains, sugarcane, metals, woolen fabrics. 

Sagittarius: 

It is masculine, fiery and mutable. Jupiter rules over the sign and 
Mercury finds it as its detriment. No other planet has any special 
impact on this sign unless it operates under Jupiter's authority and 
jurisdiction. It rales over East direction. 

General Characteristics: 

It is called the sign of Cosmic Progress or Cosmic Abundance. It 
represents enthusiasm, initiative ness, enterprise, adaptive ness, 
versatility. It has an independent spirit, an unquenchable desire for 
freedom, and a profound love for knowledge and learning. It is 
outspoken, extrovert, looks to the future but with a balanced 
approach. Being positive and fiery it can be remarkably impulsive 
and being mutable it can be deceptive too. The delusion is, 
therefore restlessness, or the love of novelty for its own sake; 
inconsistency, over-optimism, wastefulness and prodigality. 

Sagittarians are often possessed by wanderlust. The purpose is 
the search for truth. The combination of mutability with fire makes 
the sign unstable and its plans are often dropped before completion. 



48 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Sagittarius has a continually changing view of life's possibilities. 
This sign's great strength lies in its optimism and enthusiasm; its 
weakness is its impracticality. 

Physical Characteristics: 

Tall, well composed body, high and bushy eye brows, rather long 
face, bright eyes, charming appearance, fair complexion, and 
handsome figure. 

Profession: 

Detective agencies, industrial security, employment in law courts, 
document section, law college, advocate, judge, politician, 
bankers, housing finance, information and broadcasting 
department, C.B.I officer, Journalists, News paper organization, 
atomic energy, photographer, Income tax officer, Gynecologist. 

Body Parts: 

Hips, thighs, femur, ileum, coccygeal vertebrae, sacral region, 
sciatic nerves, ischium. 

Diseases: 

Sagittarius rales the hips and thighs, the coccygeal and sacral 
regions of the spine, the iliac arteries and veins, sciatic nerves, the 
femur. 

Affliction of Sagittarius may cause diseases related to thighs, hips, 
locomotors ataxia, sciatica, rheumatism, and fracture of collar 
bones, varicose veins, and bronchitis; gout and nervous disorders, 
paralysis of hips and thighs, injuries to hips and thighs from riding 
horses or other violent physical exertions, pelvic operations. 



Chapter 3: Zodiac and its Division 49 

Education: 

History, Economics, Telecommunication, computer science, 
electrical and electronics, chartered accountants, dental surgery, 
and pharmacy. 

Places: Places next to oven, stables of healthy horses, places 
where weapons are preserved, churches, temples, schools and 
colleges, courts, woods and bushes, top most room in a house. 

Countries: Hungary, Australia, part of France, Spain, Italy. 

Commodities: Horses, cloth, weapons, seeds, roots, salt, gingili. 

Capricorn: 

It is Feminine, Earthy and Rajasic. Saturn rules this sign; Mars 
gets its exaltation and Jupiter its Debilitation. Moon finds it as its 
detriment. It rales over South direction. 

General Characteristics: 

The realm of operation of this sign is mundane existence. It operates 
under the Cosmic Order and Justice, embodied in the truth that 
"As ye sow so shall ye reap". Destruction, disillusionment of 
traditional values and a new alignment of forces all occur under 
this sign. When Capricorn begins to operate, past karmas are 
activated. Being negative and Earthy, it is methodic, cautious and 
practical; being Rajasic also looks to the future for new alignments. 
It is jealous, self-pitying and melancholic. 

Capricorn's central belief is that fancy ideas are far less important 
than the need to get the job done and keep the world ticking over. 
Capricorns harbour emotions as powerful as those of any other 
sign but, as it's a Saturnine Earth sign, they may find their feelings 
difficult to express. They are often victims of circumstances. 



50 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Periods of gloom and melancholy overtake them. It is difficult for 
them to cultivate friendship with strangers. 

Physical Characteristics: 

Long nose, firm hps, strong but narrow chin. Prominent features, 
dark thin hair, eyes deep set, tall and slender body. 

Profession: 

Manufacturer of steel furniture, employment in research 
department, biology department, service in high courts, M.P. 
MLA, MLC, Telecommunication department, dealer of sports 
materials, electricity department, anesthesia specialists, cardiology 
surgeon, plastic surgeon, army, traffic inspectors, building 
contractors, drainage and sewage department. 

Body Parts: 

Skin, knees, joints, hair, and skeletal system. 

Diseases: 

Capricorn governs the knee and skin. By the principle of cross 
flow of energy it also affects the functioning of stomach, brain, 
kidneys etc. 

Afflictions of Capricorn may cause diseases: skin diseases, knee 
problems, eczema, irregularities in the function of heart, 
Rheumatism chills, gout, neuralgia, melancholia, blood disorders, 
and arteriosclerosis. 

Education: 

Computer science; economics, anesthesia, business administration, 
medical laboratory technology, chemical engineering. 



Chapters: Zodiac and its Division 51 

Places: Cells, safe vaults, isolation hospitals, barren land, old 
buildings, caves, thickjungle, dunghills, low houses, tombs. 

Countries: Bulgaria, Mexico, Albania, Afghanistan. 

Commodities: Trees, bushes, wet grains, sugarcane, gold, black 
lead. 

Aquarius: 

It is Masculine, Airy and Fixed. Saturn rules over the sign. No 
planet gets exaltation or debilitation in this sign, however, some 
believe Mercury exalts here. Sun finds it as its detriment. It rules 
over West direction. 

General Characteristics: 

It helps and guides others towards their fulfillment. It is inventive, 
ingenious, persistent, stubborn, reliable, loyal, sincere and 
aesthetic. Esoteric study of this sign indicates that whenever 
Aquarian appears, there is reaction, opposition and difficulties 
arise. Turmoil in one's life is immensely increased as the individual 
begins to work in accordance with the divine plan and annihilate 
his personal ego. In this Saturn is ruthless in achieving this task. It 
completely destroys the traditional values. Probably this might be 
one of the reasons why some Astrologers, by using the 
correspondence principle, consider 11th house as not good. 
Because Aquarius is a fixed sign, Aquarians often develop a 
lifestyle, or a set of attitudes, which they find impossible to change. 

Aquarius is concerned, sometimes to the point of obsession, with 
being new, radical and different. Often it is eccentric, frequently 
awkward and always demanding complete personal freedom. 
Aquarians specialize in producing new ideas, but because these 
are impractical, they need the help of other signs to implement 



52 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

them. Aquarians loves to work for the common people and the 
down-trodden classes. All psychic subjects appeal to Aquarians 
and due to the inspiration, love of solitude and keen occultic 
penetration, they often turns out ascetics or preachers. 

Physical Characteristics: 

Tall, full figure, fine clear complexion, defects in teeth, oval face, 
and brown hair. 

Profession: 

Industrialists, Mechanical and mining engineers, professor of 
mathematics, bakery manufactures, Civil engineers, Designers, 
financial brokers, departmental stores, Government service, non 
vegetarian hotels, Neurologists, Pharmaceuticals, manufacturer of 
sanitary garments, Technical advisors for paint and chemical 
manufacturers, wireless and telecommunication engineers. 

Body Parts: 

Lower limbs, ankles, circulatory system. 

Diseases: 

Aquarius rules the lower legs, calves, retina and oxidative process. 
Affliction of Aquarius may cause diseases: Dropsy, irregular 
functioning of heart, skin diseases, left shoulder, left ear, sprain in 
ankles, crippling of legs, retinas problems, cataracts and glaucoma. 
By the principle of cross flow of energy afflictions of Aquarius 
may also cause diseases of the other signs of the fixed cross like 
heart ailments like coronary thrombosis, dorsal region of the spinal 
cord(vertebrae), thyroid and parathyroid related diseases, toxemia 
of colon. 



Chapters: Zodiac and its Division 53 

Education: 

Bank management, nursing, gynecology and obstetrics; medicine 
and surgery, pathology, microbiology, agricultural engineering. 

Places: 

Mines, ores, places where radio sets, T. V. and phones are placed, 
place recently excavated, trenches, tunnels, and windows. 

Countries: Sweden, Russia, Arabia, Poland, Prussia. 

Commodities: Water fruits, flowers, gems, articles of various 
shapes. 

Pisces: 

It is Feminine, Watery and Mutable. Jupiter rules over this sign; 
Mercury gets its debilitation and Venus exalts here. It rules over 
North direction. 

General Characteristics: 

It being the last sign of the Zodiac symbolizes the cessation of all 
worldly efforts, the final merging of the individual into the universe. 
There is no conflict, no contradiction, and no more lust for life. 
Being negative, watery and mutable it represents the principle of 
sociability, sentimentality, sympathy, perception, intuition, 
imagination and adaptability. 

Pisceans often withdraw from the world into a safe refuge. 
Emotional, sensitive, impressionable, and vulnerable, Pisceans lack 
the hard shell of those under the influence of the other two Water 
signs Cancer and Scorpio. Pisces is exceptionally imaginative- 
and just as perceptive as Scorpio. They can be excellent artists 



54 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

but they are also self-sacrificing, wanting to find a role that has a 
greater meaning. 

Physical Characteristics: 

Short stature, plumpy, muscular and spherical shoulders, big and 
protruding eyes. 

Profession: 

House keeper, Interior decorator, Investigation department, 
financer, repair and service engineer of refrigeration, clearing 
agencies, imprisons, architects, singers, water works and sewerage 
boards, astrologer, agriculturists, dealer in kerosene, catering 
department, software engineer, corporation employees, furniture 
dealers. 

Body Parts: 

Feet, toes, fibrin of blood, Lymphatic system,adipose tissue. 

Diseases: 

Pisces rales the lymphatic system, feet and toes. 

Affliction of Pisces may cause diseases of the feet and toe like 
gout and loss of immunity. It affects intestine, dropsy, delirium, 
complication due to drags, drinks. By the principle of cross flow 
of energy afflictions of Pisces may cause diseases of the other 
signs of the mutable cross like cirrhosis of liver, hernia, appendicitis, 
enlarged liver, jaundice, fatty degeneration of the liver and 
cholesterol, blood and lung disorders, hemorrhaging in the lungs, 
arterial ailments, dislocation of the pelvis, hypo insulinism, 
constipation. 



Chapters: Zodiac and its Division 55 

Education: 

Leather technology, Textiles, Accountancy, Electrical engineering, 
commerce, doctor of medicines, industrial instrumentation 
engineering. 

Places: 

Pond, ocean, fish canneries, damp and wet places, asylum, old 
heritage, jails, oil fields. 

Countries: Portugal, Normandy, Egypt, Galicia. 

Commodities: Pearls and other shells, gems, diamonds, various 
oils, fish. 



Chapter 4 

Casting the Rashi Chart 

The horoscope or the rashi chart cast for an event (Birth is also an 
event) should indicate the following: 

1. The Ascendant i.e. the, degree, minutes and seconds of 
the Zodiac rising in the Eastern horizon at the place of 
happening of the event as per time & date of happening of 
the event. 

2. The Planetary Positions viz. the degrees, minutes, and 
seconds of the Zodiac over which the planets are transiting 
at the time, date, and place of happening of the event. 

The horoscope, therefore, is a Zodiacal representation of the 
Ascendant and Planets for the happening of the event at a specified 
time, place and date. Hence to cast a horoscope (specifically the 
rashi chart) we need to know the following: 

1. Date of birth (Event) 

2. Time of birth (Event); and 

3. Place of birth (Event) i.e. exact latitude and longitude of the 
place 

Why Different Ascendants 

Earth revolves round the Sun from West to East and the path 
traced by it is called Ecliptic. It takes 365.2422 days to complete 
360 degrees. Suppose on a particular date, say 13th April, Sun 



Chapter 4: Casting the Rashi Chart 57 

appears to be at 0 degree Aries. To an observer on Earth, as 
Earth moves from West to East, it appears as if Sun is moving 
from East to West against the background of the Zodiac at an 
average speed of 59 min. 10.68 sec. (360/365.2422). Thus to 
this observer on Earth, it will appear that Sun moves from one 
sign to the next in about a month. 

There is another motion of Earth, which is Earth also moves around 
its own axis from West to East and completes its revolution in 23 
hrs 56 min. 4 sec. To the observer on Earth, it gives an impression 
that the Zodiac is moving from East to West and completes 360 
degrees in the same time. The Zodiac appears to be a circle to an 
observer on equator. How ever the Zodiac appears to be Elliptic 
to an observer on Earth at any point North or South of the Equator. 
Thus different degrees of the Zodiac take different time to move 
from East to West. Let us say, that on a particular day, say IS^of 
April, Sun enters the sign Aries at some time; and on \4'h April, at 
sun rise at the place of observation, the degree rising in the eastern 
horizon will co-incide with the degree occupied by Sun. However 
due to the revolution of the Earth around its own axis, it will appear 
that Sun is no longer in the eastern horizon what has moved upward 
and the degree rising in the east horizon will also be different than 
the degree of the Sun at this time of sun rise. This difference will 
be dependent on the time that has elapsed since sunrise and the 
speed at which the Zodiac appears to move from East to West. 
This gives rise to different ascendants or different ascendants 
degrees to rise in the eastern horizon as the time passes from 
sunrise time. 

Basis of Time Measurement 

Time is one of the most important parameter that is used for casting 
the horoscope. It is, therefore, essential to understand the basis of 
its measurement. The basis of time measurement is the rotation of 



58 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Earth upon its axis with reference to the apparent angular motion 
of the heavenly bodies. 

Sidereal Day: 

A day can be defined as the interval between two successive transits 
of the object over a particular meridian. In the case of Sun it is 
known as Solar day and in case of a Star or first point of Aries it 
is known as Sidereal Day. We may say that there are two methods 
of time-keeping. 

1. Solar Time : It is kept with reference to Sun. 

2. Sidereal Time : It is measured with reference to the Stars. 

Solar time and Sidereal time are, therefore, of unequal lengths. 

Mean Solar Day: 

There are two reasons for unequal solar days. 

1. Sun does not move along the Ecliptic at a uniform rate due 
to varying distance of the Earth from Sun during the year. 

2. Sun moves in the Ecliptic and not along the celestial Equator. 
Its celestial longitude is in general different from its right 
ascension. Revolution causes the Sun to appear about one 
degree of arc to the East each day. Therefore the Earth 
must turn an additional degree of arc or four minutes of 
time to bring the Sun to the meridian the following day. 

To overcome the variation of true Sun's motion, a fictitious mean 
»■ 

Sun is used which move Eastward along the celestial equator at a 
uniform rate equal to the average rate of the true Sun along the 
Ecliptic. The time between two successive lower transits of the 
mean Sun is defined as a mean solar or civil day, which is 
approximately four minutes longer than a sidereal day. 



Chapter 4: Casting the Rashi Chart 59 

Sidereal Time; 

It measures the rotation of the earth relative to the first point of 
Aries (Vernal Equinox) and is identical with the right ascension of 
the meridian. Sidereal time at any instant is the hour angle of the 
Vernal Equinox expressed in time. Sidereal time is zero when the 
Vernal Equinox is on the meridian. It increases due to the constant 
rotation of the celestial sphere at the rate of 1 degree per four 
minutes. 

Longitudinal Equivalent: 

Sidereal Time is always local. The difference between local sidereal 
Time and Greenwich Sidereal Time corresponds to the longitude 
of the observer expressed in time. This is called Longitudinal 
Equivalent in time and consists of converting the longitude of the 
birth place into time at the rate of 15 degrees per hour. If the birth 
place is East of Greenwich this longitude correction is added, and 
if the birth place is West of Greenwich this longitude correction is 
deducted. 

Places on the same meridian always have the same local Sidereal 
Tune. 

Mean to Sidereal Time Correction: 

A mean solar day is equivalent to 24 hours 3 minutes 56.56 
seconds of sidereal Time. Therefore, the calculations of Sidereal 
Time from a given Mean Solar Time require a correction at the 
rate of 9.86 seconds per hour. 

A tropical year (or solar year is the interval between two successive 
returns of the Sun to the same tropic or Equinox) of 365.2422 
mean solar days is equivalent to 366.2422 sidereal days. An 
astronomical clock will indicate 24 hours in 23 hrs56 min 4.09 
seconds of ordinary clock or mean time. In other words, the 



60 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Sidereal clock gains9.8565 Sidereal seconds on the mean time 
clock in one hour of mean time. To get correct Sidereal time we 
need therefore, to deduct the quantity at the rate of 9.8565 seconds 
per hour of the mean time. 

Local Mean Time: 

The mean solar time at any given meridian is the true mean time of 
any place on Earth's surface along the same meridian. Thus LMT 
is the same for all places having the same longitude. 

Standard Time; 

To regulate civil life, each country has selected a particular place 
on a particular meridian to keep uniform time irrespective of the 
place in the country with reference to the Greenwich meridian. 
For example, in India, the reference meridian is 82.5 degrees 
passing through the place Ujjain. 

Difference between Greenwich Mean Time and the standard time 
is calculated by adding or subtracting the time difference obtained 
by multiplying the longitude of the reference meridian by four. This 
difference is added for the places, which are East of Greenwich, 
and subtracted for the places, which are West of Greenwich. For 
example, in case of India, the time difference is 82.5x 4/60 =5.5 
hrs. Since Ujjan's longitude is 82.5 degrees E. This difference 
indicates that the standard time of India is 5.5 hrs ahead of 
Greenwich T ime. 

Conversion of Standard Time to LMT 

For casting the horoscope we need to calculate the sidereal Time 
corresponding to the Local Mean Time from the time of event as 
noted by the clock. For this we need first to convert the standard 
time as noted by the watch/clock to LMT. This is done as follows: 



Chapter 4: Casting the Rashi Chart 61 

1. First calculate the equivalent Greenwich meantime by 
subtracting or adding the standard time difference (For 
example for India -5.5hrs) from the standard time. For 
example the equivalent Greenwich Time for Delhi (India) 
time 8 pm will be 20hrs -5.5hrs i.e. 14.5 hrs 

2. Calculate the local time difference between Greenwich and 
the place by multiplying the longitude of the place by 4. For 
example, for Delhi (India) it will come to 77.2 x 4 = 308.8 
minutes = 5 hrs 8 mins and 48 sees. For places in the east 
of the Greenwich this difference will be +ve and for the 
places in the west of Greenwich it will be - ve. LMT at the 
place will be equal to the equivalent Greenwich Time plus 
or minus the difference as calculated in Para 1. 

Longitudinal Correction: 

Sidereal Time at Greenwich increases at the rate of 4 minutes per 
24 hours because of the earth's rotation on its axis to cover 1 
degree by which Sun would have moved. Similarly the Sidereal 
time at other places will change (increase or decrease) depending 
upon the longitude of the place West or East of Greenwich. Since 
the Side real time changes by 4 minutes or 240 seconds for one 
revolution of earth round its axis, the change per degree longitude 
will be (240/360=2/3 sec per degree of longitude).This is called 
longitudinal correction. For each degree east of Greenwich, we 
need to deduct 2/3 seconds from the Side real time at the place of 
birth. For places west of Greenwich this correction is to be added. 

Calculation of Sidereal Time; 

We can calculate the Sidereal Time for any event happening at 
any place using the Ephemeris as follows. 

1. First convert the time of happening of the event into LMT. 



62 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

2. Calculate the longitudinal correction seconds by multiplying 
the longitude of the place by 2/3. 

3. Note the Greenwich Sidereal Time at noon for the date of 
happening from the Ephemeris. If the LMT is before noon 
on that date, use previous date. 

4. Add the longitudinal correction as obtained above in 2 to 
3. This will give the Sidereal Time at noon at the place of 
happening. 

5. Calculate the time interval between noon and the LMT. 

6. Calculate the mean time correction by multiplying the interval 
as obtained in 5 by 9.86. 

7. For place east of Greenwich add, for place west of 
Greenwich; deduct the figure obtained in 6 to the figure 
obtained in 4 and 5. That is Sidereal time at the place is 
(4+5) + figure at 6. This will give the Sidereal Time of 
happening of the event at that place. 

How to fix the Ascendant Position: 

The Ascendant is, as we have defined earlier, the degrees, minutes 
and seconds of a sign which will be rising at the time of birth of a 
person. 

Importance of latitude in the Calculation of 

Ascendant: 

If we observe the Zodiac from the Equator, it subtends an angle 
of360 degrees and appears to be a circle. As such the time taken 
by each degree of the Zodiac to rise at the horizon will be same. 
But if we move to the North or the South of the Equator, the time 
taken by different degrees of the Zodiac to rise will be different 



Chapter 4: Casting the Rashi Chart 63 

because the Zodiac no longer appears to be circular. Thus the 
latitude plays a significant role in fixing the Ascendant. 

Why use Geocentric Latitudes: 

Casting of the horoscope should be done using the geocentric 
latitude of the place of birth. The reason for this is explained here. 

The longitudes of the places where the planets are seen, in the 
background of the Zodiac, by an observer at the center of Earth 
are called their geo-centric latitudes. However, if the observer is 
at some other place North or South of the Equator than the center 
of the Earth, the planets longitude as seen in the background of 
the Zodiac is likely to undergo a slight variation. Since the Atlas 
invariably provides us the geographic latitudes of places on the 
earth, we need to convert them into geocentric latitudes to counter 
balance the tilt of the Zodiac due to the obhquity of the place of 
observation. This is done by using the following formula. 

Tan A = Tan B xO.99330546 

Where A is the geocentric latitude and B is the geographic latitude 
of the place. 

Example: Geographical latitude of Chennai = 13°.C)4' 

Its Geocentric Latitude will be = Tan 13o.04' x 0.99330546 = 
12°.59' 

Method's of Ascendant Calculation: 

First Method: 

Degree rising on the Ascendant can be calculated by referring to 
the tables of ascendants for various latitude published by N.C. 
Lahiri and others using the Sidereal Time calculated for the time of 



64 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

event against the column of the latitude of the place. If the table 
for the exact latitude is not available, the nearest latitude tables 
can be used to find the exact degree by interpolation of the tables. 

Second Method: 

We can also calculate the position of the Ascendant in another 
way. The degree rising on the Ascendant will be equal to how 
much the Sun has moved in the sky after sunrise at the place of 
happening of an event, plus how much the Sun has moved in the 
Zodiac on that particular day in terms of time i.e. if we take that 
the Sun crosses the whole Zodiac in one Sidereal day of the earth. 
Let X is the time interval between sunrise (it is reckoned from the 
time when Sun's center is on horizon) and the time of happening 
of the event at a place on a particular day. This is called Ishtkaal. 
From the Ephemeris, we may note the position of the Sun at the 
time of sunrise on that date. Let it by Y in degrees, minutes and 
seconds. We then need to find out the speed at which Sun is 
moving on that date. Let it be S in degrees, minutes, seconds. The 
speed may be positive or negative i.e. increasing or decreasing 
respectively. Thus, 

S (speed per day) = S1-S2/N 

Here SI is the speed on the midnight of a date say 21st March. 
And S2 is the speed of the Sun say on 28th March. N is the 
number of days i.e. here equal to 7. 

Sun's position at this time of event will be calculated as follows: 

Sun's longitude Z= Y + (S/24) X. This will indicate how Sun has 
moved in the Zodiac. 

Now from the Ascendant table for the particular latitude we may 
note how much time a sign / degree takes to rise at that place. Let 
us say on the date of happening Y degree rises at a particular time 



Chapter 4: Casting the Rashi Chart 65 

say T1 and the next degree i.e. Y+l rise at T2. Then (T1-T2) will 
indicate the time taken by the Sun to move 1 degree in the sky. 

Therefore, in X hours, Sun will cover X/(T2-T 1) degrees of the 
zodiac. 

Ascendant degree will be Y+X/ (T2-T1). 

Example: 

Let us see how we can calculate the Ascendant for the given birth 
date. 

D.O. Birth 10.12.1993 

Time of Birth 03.50 AM 1ST 

Place of Birth Bombay (Longitude 72.50 Latitude 18.58) 

1st Method 

Step 1: Calculate LMT 

LMT = (IST-5.30)+Time calculation at the rate of 4 minutes 
for each degree of longitude. 

= (03.50-5.30) + 4hrs 5 1m 20s 

= 3hrllm20s. 

Step 2: Calculation of Sidereal time for the given date, time and 
place of birth. For this we need Table of Ascendant (say 
Lahiri's Table of Ascendants). 

Sidereal Time for 10th December 17hr 14m 07s 

Longitudinal correction for Bombay 06s 
(page 101) 

Correction for year 1993 1m 52s 
(Table II) 



66 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Sidereal time at noon for Bombay 17hr 16m 05s 

Let us now calculate the Sidereal time at Birth. 

As the birth is before noon, deduct 

From 12h 0m Qs 

LMT 3h 11m 20s 

8h 48m 40s 

Add mean time correction at the rate of 9.86 seconds per hour of 
the interval calculated above. This will come equal to 1m 27s. 

So the exact time interval will be 8 hr 50m 07 sec. 

To get the Sidereal time at Birth, we need to deduct (For births 
before noon) this interval from the Sidereal time at Noon. 

17h 16m 05s 

8h 50m 07s 

Therefore Sidereal time at Birth = 8h 25m 58s 

Step 3: Look for the page in the book of Table of Ascendants, 
which indicates the Ascendants as per Latitude nearest 
to the place of Birth. On page 29, Table for Latitude 19 
degree N is given. The Latitude of Bombay is 18 deg. 
58 min. N. In this page look for the Ascendant for the 
Sidereal time calculation above. You may have to apply 
interpolatioft method to calculate the exact degree. In 
this case it will come to 6s. 11°. 14'. Now to get the 
correct Nirayana Ascendant for 10.12.1993 we need 
to apply Ayanamsha correction for the year 1993 which 
is - 46' from the table of Ascendant. 

Thus the Ascendant comes to be Libra 10 deg. 28 min. 



Chapter 4: Casting the Rashi Chart 67 

Calculation of Ascendant by 2nA Method: (Birth Data same as 
above) 

Time of Birth =03.50 AM 

Sunrise on 9.12.93 = 05.30 (Say to simplify calculations) 

Therefore Ishtkaal = 22h 20m 

Longitude of Sun at sunrise on 9.12,1993 = 7s 23 deg. 8 min. 

Since speed on that date is 1 deg. 1 min. Therefore in x hrs 
(22 hr 20 min) Sun will cover 0 deg. 57 min. 

Therefore, Longitude of Sun at 03.50 AM on 10.12.1993 will be 
7s 24 deg. 05 min. 

At the time of Sunrise on 9.12.1993 Scorpio 23 deg. 8 min. was 
rising. Now we have to calculate the time taken by each degree at 
thd place of birth to rise. Knowing it from the Tables we can 
calculate using Ishtkaal the number of degrees that will have to be 
risen before the birth time. 

War Time Correction: 

During World War n, the clock time was put ahead of the standard 
time by one hour in many countries. India also followed this time 
adjustment from 1.9.1942 to 15.10.1945. While casting the 
horoscope, it must be ascertained whether the time given by the 
individual is the standard time or the clock time if the birth has 
taken place during above dates. 

Summer Time Correction: 

Many countries put their clocks ahead of the standard time during 
summer. This point should be noted while casting the horoscope. 



68 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Calculation of Longitude of Planets 

This is done with the help of annual Ephemeris, which indicates 
the longitudes of planets for each date at 05.30AM. From the 
two consecutive dates, we can find the difference in longitude of 
each planet. From this difference we can calculate the rate at which 
the longitude of the planet is changing on the date of the event. 
Knowing the time difference between the time of event and 05.30 
hrs we can calculate the longitude of each planet. 

Example: 

Fet us calculate the longitudes of planets at 03.50hrs on 
10.12.1993 

Time difference between 05.30 AM on 9.12.93 and 03.50 on 
10.12 1993 is 22hr20m. 

From the Ephemeris, we can see the difference of longitude of 
planets as on9.12.93 and 10.12.93.It is as shown below. 

Planet Difference 

Sun i.r 

Moon 14.29' 

Mars .45' 

Mercury 1.31' 

Jupiter .11' 

Venus 1.16' 

Saturn .4' 

Rahu .2' 

Ketu .2' 



Chapter 4: Casting the Rashi Chart 69 

Calculation of longitude of Sun: 

Sun's longitude on 9.12.1993 at 05.30AM 7s 23.08' 

Sun's longitude on 10.12.1993 at 03.50AM +0 00.57' 

7s 24.05' 

Calculation of Moon's Longitude 

Moon's longitude on 9.12.1993 at 05.30AM 5s 24.07' 

Moon's longitude on 10.12.1993 at 03.50AM +0 13.29' 

6s 07.36' 

Calculation of Mars longitude 

LongitudeofMarson9.12.1993at05.30AM 7s 27.58' 

Longitude of Mars on 10.12.1993 at 03.50AM + 00.42' 

7s 28.40' 

Thus the longitude of other planets can also be calculated. These 
will be as follows: 

Mercury 7s 10° 34' 

Jupiter 6s 12° 11' 

Venus 7s 14° 57' 

Saturn 10s 01° 24' 

Rahu 7s 14' 

Ketu 13 04° 14' 

o 
o 



70 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

XXxil1 / 

"vx 
1 xx0 

x lv xV x x 

vii JXJX 
Xvr\ x viii\ 

Fig. 12 

Lord of the House: 

It may be noted that the sign appearing on the house determines 
the lordship of the house. Suppose Leo sign appears on the 10th 

cusp, then Sun will be termed as the lord of the 10th house. 

Southern Style: 

Refer fig. 12a. Here the places of signs are fixed as shown in the 
diagram. As per the sign rising on the Ascendant, the word is 
written as in the respective sign block. Planets are also placed in 
the blocks as per their sign longitudes. 

K T tf n 

.^Wl 
25 

Q. 

tn. 1 

Fig 12a 



Chapter 4: Casting the Rashi Chart 71 

Traditional Method for Calculation of Ascendant 

Before we discuss this method, it is essential to explain the 
traditional concept of time measurement. 

Indian day: It is reckoned from sunrise to consecutive sunrise. 

Division of Day: A day is divided into 60 parts. Each part is 
known as Ghati. Each Ghati is then divided into 60 parts and each 
part is called Pal. Each Pal is further divided into 60 parts and 
each part is called Vipal. 

Conversion of time in hours etc. into Ghati's etc. and vice-a-versa 
can be done using the following formulas: 

24 hours = 60 ghatis 

1 hour = 2.5 ghatis 

1 minute = 2.5pals 

1 second = 2.5vipals 

Philosophy and Techniques of Calculation: 

The principle behind the method is similar to what we have explained 
in 2nd method above. Here also the Ascendant is calculated by 
finding how much Sun has moved in the Zodiac and in the sky 
from Sunrise to the time of birth. The disc of the Sun takes 7 to 8 
minutes to rise in the Eastern horizon. However, Sunrise and Sunset 
is calculated with reference to the center of the Sun's disc. Time 
of Sunrise and Sunset at different latitudes can be known from the 
Lahiri's Ephemeris. 

To calculate Ascendant we need to know the following: 

1. Ishtkaal i.e. the time interval between Sun rise on the date 
of birth and the time of birth. For births before Sunrise, the 
Sunrise time of the previous date is taken. 



72 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

2. Rashimans of a Place: Rashiman means oblique 
ascension. The time taken by each sign in the eastern horizon 
is dependent on its latitude. Hence Rashiman's are different 
for different places and are computed for Sayana Zodiac 
with the help of Palbha and Charkhandas. Sayana longitudes 
are then converted into Nirayana longitudes by subtracting 
the Ayanamsha for the date of birth. 

Palbha for various latitudes are given in the following table: 

Lat. Palbha Lat Palbha Lat Palbha Lat Palbha 

01° 0.21 16 3.44 31 7.21 46 12.43 

02° 0.42 17 3.67 32 7.50 47 12.87 

03° 0.63 18 3.90 33 7.79 48 13.33 

04° 0.84 19 4.13 34 8.09 49 13.80 

05° 1.05 20 4.37 35 8.40 50 14.30 

1.26 21 4.60 36 8.72 51 14.82 

07° 1.47 22 4.85 37 9.04 52 15.36 

1.69 23 5.09 38 9.37 53 15.92

1.90 24 5.34 39 9.72 54 16.51 

10° 2.11 25 5.59 40 10.07 55 17.14 

11° 2.33 26 5.85 41 10.43 56 17.79 

12° 2.55 27 6.11 42 10.80 57 18.47 

13° 2.77 28 6.38 43 11.19 58 19.19 
14° 2.99 29 6.65 44 11.59 59 19.97 

15° 3.21 30 6.93 45 12.00 60 20.78 

1 
o 

o 
O o 

00 
o o 



Chapter 4: Casting the Rashi Chart 73 

Charkhanda: 

Signs Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces are 
called signs of short ascension and the remaining signs are called 
signs of long ascension. How much time a sign will take to rise will 
depend on Palbha and Charkhanda. Charkhanda is found by 
multiplying Palbha by 10(Aries, Pisces), 8(Taurus, Aquarius), 10/ 
3(Gemini, Capricorn). For short ascension signs the rising time of 
each sign is calculated by subtracting the Charkhanda from the 
rising time of each sign at the Equator. For long ascension signs, 
the rising time is calculated by adding the Charkhanda to the rising 
time of the sign at the Equator. Charkhanda thus means the time 
difference of rising time for various signs at the place of birth with 
respect to the times they take at the equator. 

Example: 

Take the case of Delhi whose latitude is 28.39'. To calculate Palbha 
of Delhi we have to refer to the table above. Note Palbha at 28 
and29 Degrees and find out the Palbha difference for 1 degree. 
This will be equal to (6.65-6.38) = 0.27 

Palbha of Delhi = 6.38+ 0.27x39/60 = 6.56 

Charkhandas of Delhi 

6.56x10 (Aries & Pisces) = 65.6 pals approximately 

6.56x8 (Taurus & Aquarius) = 52 pals approximately 

6.56x10/3 (Gemini & Capricorn) = 21.87 say 22 pals 



74 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Rising Time of Rashis in Delhi will be as follows: 

Rashi Rashimans Chark- Rising time of 
at equator -handas Rashis in Delhi 

Rising Time olDelhi Pala Ghati Pala 
inPala 

Aries=Pisces 278 -66 212 = 3 32 

T aurus=Aquarius 299 -52 247 = 4 07 

Gemini=Capricom 323 -22 301 = 5 01 

Cancer=Sagittarius 323 +22 345 = 5 45 

Leo=Scorpio 299 +52 351 = 5 51 

Virgo=Libra 278 +66 344 = 5 44 

Total 30 00 

Calculation of Ascendant: 

Let us say that we need to calculate the Ascendant rising at lOhrs 
30m on a date at Delhi. Let the Sunrise time on that date be 5h 
33m. 

Step 1: Find out the Sayana longitude of Sun at sunrise on that 
date. Let us say it is 3s 14° 57' i.e. Cancer sign 14° 57' 
has risen at the time of sunrise. 

Step 2: Calculate the balance of the sign that has yet to rise. 
Here it will be 30o-14.57' = 1800'-897' = 903' 

Step3: Now Ishtkaai is 10h.30m-5h33m=4h57m= 12Ghati 
22Pals 

Step 4: We have now to see from 14 deg.57 min. of Cancer 
which degree will be rising after 12 ghatis 22 pals 
knowing the time taken for rising by Cancer, Leo, Virgo 
signs. 



Chapter 4: Casting the Rashi Chart 75 

Time required for 903' of balance of Cancer = 345x903/1800 

= 173Pals 

= 2Gh.53Pals 

Time required for rising Leo = 5Gh.51Pal 

Ishtkaal = 8Gh.44Pal 

= 218Pals 

Degree of Virgo that will rise after 218 pals = 1800x218/344 

= 19deg. 1 min. 

Sayana longitude of Ascendant = 5s 19 deg. 1 min. 



Chapter 5 

The Houses and Their Significations 

The Traditionalists invariably believe in the correspondence 
between the signs and the houses. Aries, for example, symbolizes 
the characteristics of first house. To me the relationship between 
signs and houses is more often the relationship of spirit and matter. 
As spirit - the true self- is not subjected to the vagaries of weather 
or the strifes and struggles of life so do the signs, which are 
permanent storehouse of energy obtained from the fixed stars. 
Houses, on the other hand, are concrete expressions of mundane 
affairs of life in the physical body. They may be equated to matter 
- the body - which operates under the law of ultimate dissolution 
and the signs with the inner man. "Know ye not that ye are the 
temple of god, and that the spirit of god dwelth in you?" 

The Ascendant or what we call as lagna is formed at the time of 
birth as per the degree of the zodiac rising in the eastern horizon at 
that time and place. The selection of the time of birth is controlled 
by the life giving planet Sun [sell] and Moon [Non-sell] and the 
positions of planets in the various but specified degrees of the 
Zodiac. As Yarahamihira said, "The planets offer a lawful channel 
for the outward operations of cause-effect equilibriums that man 
has set into motion in the past as a free agent." That is planets 
occupy specific position in the Zodiac and in the houses to reflect 
our past karmas. Our soul or inner mind is carrier of our karmas, 
both past and present but it is our body, which is responsible for 
the execution of karma or bear the fruits of our past and present 
karmas. Thus, we may say houses bear direct linkage to our destiny 



Chapter 5: The Houses and Their Significations 77 

while the planets in the signs refer to our inner mind. In other 
words, planets in signs indicate with what capabilities or 
characteristics our soul has incarnated. 

How beautiful or boring is a film depends upon the quality of the 
script, the talent of the actors etc. Similarly the strength of nativity, 
no doubt, depends upon the strength of the planets as per sign 
and house position. How logical it is to say if a sign is afflicted by 
a malefic like Rahu or Saturn that it will cause the body to suffer 
from diseases signified by that sign. Rahu or Saturn remains in a 
sign for a pretty long time. Will every body suffer similar disease? 
It may not even be correct to say the same for the placement of 
the planet in house position. 

Methods of House Formation: 

During the last few centuries various methods of house formation 
have been devised. They can, however, be broadly classified into 
three categories. 

1. The Ecliptic systems 

2. The Space systems. 

3. The Time systems 

The Ecliptic System, of which, the most simple to construct is 
the equal house system. In this system the Ecliptic is divided in 12 
equal parts coming from the Ascendant. For example if the 
Ascendant is 15 degree Cancer, then the 2nd house will start 
from 15 degree Leo, the tenth will be 15 degree Aries and the 12th 
house will be Gemini 15 degree. This system merely reflects the 
Zodiac on to the mundane sphere, but the 10th house cusp [the 
beginning point of a house] does not necessarily coincide with the 
mid-heaven. 



78 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

The Space System, of which the most popular systems are those 
devised by Sripati and Porphyry [in3ld century AD]. The Porphyry 
system is based on trisecting the semi-arcs of Ecliptic between 
the horizon and meridian i.e. in this system, the eastern quadrants 
of the Ecliptic are each divided into three equal arcs. The cusps of 
the 11th and the 12th houses are found by adding the one third 
and two third of the diumal Semi-Arc respectively to the M.C. 
For the 2nd and 3rd house cusps, one-third and two thirds of the 
diumal semi-arc respectively added to the Ascendant. The other 
houses are diametrically opposite. Sripati's system is similar except 
for the fact that the mid- point of the house space is considered to 
be the strongest point. 

Calculation of Houses (Bhavas) [Sripati System] 

After calculating longitudes of Ascendant and various planets, 
equally important is to know the stretch of each House. Detailed 
calculations are done to know the beginning and end of the Houses, 
to know the exact span of the Houses. 

Sidereal time for the above birth 8 h 25 m 58 s 

Now refer to Table of Tenth House on page 8 of Tables of 
Ascendants. 

Longitude of 8 h 24 m 3 s 10° 41' 

Longitude of 8 h 28 m 3 s 11° 39' 

Difference 4 minutes: 58', (2 minutes = 29') 

Longitude for 8 h 24 m 3 s 10° 41' 

Longitude for 2 m 29' 

Longitude for 8 h 25m 58s, 

i.e. for8h26m 3 s 11° 10' 



Chapter 5: The Houses and Their Significations 79 

Less Ayanamsha Correction 46' 

Longitude for Xth House 3 s 10° 24' 

This is the mid-point of the Xth House. 

Remaining longitudes of Houses can be worked out in the following 
manner 

Ascendant 6 s 10° 28' 

Less Xth House 3 s 10° 24' 

3 s 04' 

Divide this by 6, 

0 s 15° 

IVth House is the opposite of Xth House. So, add 6 to the Xth 
House to obtain IVth House. 

Xth House 3s 10° 24' 

Add 6 6s 00' 

IVth House 9s 10° 24' 

Less 1st House (I) 6s 10° 28' 

2s 29° 56' 

Divide this by 6, 

0s 14° 59'....B 

Now, Xth House 3s 10° 24' 

Add A 0s 15° 00' 

Joint (Sandhi)ofX& XI 3 s 25° 24' 

AddA 0s 15° 00' 

O O 
O O 
o o 

o 
o 

< 



80 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Xlth House 4s l(f 24' 

AddA Os 15° 00' 

Joint (Sandhi) of XI &XII 4s 25° 24' 

AddA Os 15° 00' 

Xllth House 5s 10° 24' 

AddA Os 15° 00' 

Joint (Sandhi) of XH&I 5s 25° 24' 

Again, proceed further: 

1st House 6s 10° 28' 

AddB Os 14° 59' 

Joint (Sandhi) ofl&II 6s 25° 27' 

AddB Os 14° 59' 

Ilnd House 7s l(f 26' 

AddB Os 14° 59' 

Joint (Sandhi) ofU&III 7s 25° 23' 

AddB Os 14° 59' 

Illrd House 8s l(f 24' 

AddB Os 14° 59' 

Joint (Sandhi) of m & r v 8s 25° 23' 

Thus we have got the longitudes of Houses I, II, III, IV, X, XI, 
andXII. 

Add 6s to 1st House, to obtain Vllth House, which is opposite to 
1st House. 



Chapter 5: The Houses and Their Significations 81 

1" House 6s 10° 28' 

Add 6s 6s 00° 00' 

VHth House Os 10° 28' 

Similarly, Add 6s to Ilnd House, to obtain Vlllth House, which is 
opposite to Ilnd House. 

Ilnd House 7 s 10° 26' 

Add 6s 6 s 00' 

YHIth House 1 s 10° 26' 

Similarly, add 6s to IHrd House, to obtain IXth house, which is 
opposite to IHrd House. 

mrdHouse 8 s 10° 24' 

Add 6s 6 s 00° 00' 

IXth House 2 s 10° 24' 

Similarly, add 6s to Xlth house, to obtain Vth House, which is 
opposite to Xlth House: 

Xlth House 4s 10° 26' 

Add 6s 6 s 

VthHouse 10 s 10° 26' 

Similarly, add 6s to Xllth House, to obtain Vlth House, which is 
opposite to Xllth House. 

Xflth House 5 s 10° 28' 

Add 6s 6 s 00° 00 

Vlth House 11s 10° 28' 

O 
O O 
o O 

o 

O 
O 
o 



82 True Astrology- "Basicand Traditional Concepts" 

Now, we have got the stretches of all the Houses. These could be 
written in a Bhav Chakra/Bhav Table/Bhav Spasht Table, as under: 

BHAV SPASHT TABLE 

1st Sandhi find Sandhi mrd Sandhi 
s-0-' 8-°-' s-0-' s-0-' 8-°-' s-0-' 

6-10-28 6-25-27 7-10-26 7-25 25 8-10-24 8-25-23 

IVth Sandhi Vth Sandhi Vlth Sandhi 
9-10-24 9-25-24 10-10-26 10-25-28 11-10-28 11-25-28 

vnlh Sandhi Vlllth Sandhi Ixth Sandhi 
0-10-28 0-25-28 1-10-26 1-25-24 2-10-24 2-25-24 

Xth Sandhi Xlth Sandhi xnth Sandhi 
3-10-24 3-25-24 4-10-27 4-25-24 5-10-24 5-25-21 

Lord of the House: 

The sign appearing on the house determines the lord of the house. 
Suppose Aries appears at the 6th house, then Mars is said to be 
the lord of the 6th house. 

The Time System, of which, the most commonly used is the 
system of Placidius. This system is based on the tri-section of the 
semi-arc of each degree of the Ecliptic. It does not divide time, 
nor does it divide space between the horizon and meridian in a 
simple way. The basis of this system is to take the time for any 
degree to move from the Ascendant to the mid- heaven and to 
equally trisect this time to ascertain the time at which this degree 
will become cusps of the 12th and 11th houses. Likewise, the 
semi - nocturnal arc from I. C. [Nadir] to the Ascendant is trisected, 
and the times are those at which the same degree will become the 
cusps of the 2nd and3ld houses. The other houses are diametrically 



Chapter 5: The Houses and Their Significations 83 

opposite. The cusp means the degree minute and seconds rising 
on the house. 

Division of the Houses: 

To facilitate the study of the characteristics of houses, they are 
also divided like Zodiacal signs using the Law of Polarity, Law of 
Elements and Law of Mode of Action. 

The houses are divided into two halves viz. positive and negative. 
They are called Day Half or the Eastern or the Rising Half and the 
Night Half or The Western or Setting Half. Houses from 12 to 7 
are called Day Half as they have already risen. They are also 
called visible houses. Houses from 6 to 1 are called Night Half. 
They are also called the Invisible houses. However, Ascendant is 
also treated as Day Half being twilight house. The cusp of the 
Ascendant is the point of Sunrise; The 10th cusp that of noon 
[Zenith]; the cusp of the 7th house that of Sunset [descendent]; 
the 4th cusp that of mid-night [Nadir]. The cusp means the 
degree minutes and seconds rising on a house. 

Division of the houses as per Law of Elements is shown below: 

Fiery Earthy Airy Watery 

Houses 1,5,9 2,6,10 3,7,11 4,8,12 

Triplicity Concept: 

It is based on the division of the houses on the basis of Law of 
Mode of Action and is shown below: 

Cardinal or Fixed or Mutable or 
Angular or Succedent or Cadent or 

Rajasic Houses Tamasic houses Sattwic houses 

1,4,7,10 2,5,8,11 3,6,9,12 



84 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Influence of Houses 

The Eastern or the Rising Half or the Day Half represents 
manifestation, individualization, involution, creation, and openness; 
publicity, separation from others, the gain of powers and faculties. 

The Western or the Setting Half or the Night Half signifies 
concealment, latency, withdrawal, dissolution decrease of self, 
altruism, involution, cessation, of activity. 

The Cardinal or Angular Houses: 

Since the mode of action is Rajasic, these houses are directly 
related to the physical and the external world and represent 
outgoing activities originating in the self but directly affecting the 
non-self. They generally show the nature of things, which are openly 
expressed and therefore, denote fame, reputation, public position 
and general activities. Mars the energetic, impulsive significator of 
latent fire in every individual and Moon- that rules over our etheric 
body, the mind, mannerism, idiosyncrasies, the seat of desire, 
panting and longing are the most characteristics of the heavenly 
bodies that belong to the cardinal cross. The characteristics of 
these houses are - rapidity of motion, frequency of change, 
restlessness, separation, individualization. 

The Fixed or Succedent Houses: 

These houses operate under Tamasic influence. They are 
connected with desires, feeling and emotion. There is lack of action; 
they are not open and expressive. They are less changeful. 
Experience and characteristic or even faults or virtues which arise 
due to the influence of planets on these houses are more or less of 
permanent nature. The Sun- the fragment of the primeval force 
which ensouls every species on earth, the withdrawal of which 
leads to the cessation of life itself and Saturn- the symbolic of 



Chapter 5: The Houses and Their Significations 85 

discipline, restraint, purification and penance are the two heavenly 
bodies that belong to this cross. The characteristics of these houses 
may broadly be classified as: fixedness, lack of action, aversion to 
change, self-centeredness, and strength to resist outside influence, 
will power, tenacity and steadfastness. 

The Cadent or Common Houses: 

These houses operate under both action and desire. Events that 
are denoted by these houses taken alone originate in cognition 
rather than feelings and action, Mercury- which symbolizes 
rationalization, intelligence, learning and teaching, seeker of 
information, the meaning and value of ideas but also the agent of 
restlessness and hitch- hiking; and Jupiter-the symbolic of wisdom 
prosperity, abundance, lavishness, pomp, display, diplomacy and 
religion, are the two important heavenly bodies that have rule over 
these houses. Thus they represent rhythmical motion, adjustment, 
and the establishment of relation, coherence and research into 
unknown areas. 

Signification of Houses: 

In the following paragraphs an effort has been made to present 
the general significations of a house and also what the house stands 
for the various significant aspects like profession, education, 
diseases, marriage mode of death etc. when a particular planet 
significator of these aspects establishes a relationship with 
the specific house. These significations are meant for the native. 

First House or the Ascendant: 

Carl Jung said "What ever is bom at this moment of time bears 
the qualities of this moment." Why the soul has chosen this moment 
of time to incarnate in the form of a human being? It is so because 



86 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

this moment or the Ascendant reflects the very being of the 
individual. The oerson's nature, his capacity to enjoy the pleasures 
and struggles 01 life; his/her style of functioning; what is destined 
for him in this incarnation as per the wisdom acquired from earlier 
lives is depicted by the Ascendant In other words, study of the 
Ascendant, in fact is the study of the whole horoscope in general. 
Nay it is the epitome of the whole horoscope. 

It is a Cardinal or Angular house and thus represents the Rajasic 
propensities- the outward expression. It represents the quantum 
and the quality of energy at the disposal of each individual. It is 
called ADI- the beginning of ideas, aspiration, Udhyam-power of 
taking initiative, nature of participation in activities, Deham-physical 
vehicle, health, Rupam-for it symbolizes the form, identity and 
mode of expression contained within. 

Broadly speaking, the first house stands for one's individuality, 
personality, temperament, physical structure, state of health, 
longevity, name and fame, virtues, capacity to face struggles of 
life, direction and aspects of life in which the native will channelise 
his energies, proneness to accidents or untoward happenings. This 
house needs to be analysed for all matters concerning the native. 
The owner of the Ascendant placed in 6th or 8th or the 12th house 
with a malefic planet will impair the health of the native. 

Profession: 

If the Ascendant lord is connected with the tenth house the person 
may take up professions as psychiatrist, a specialist in treating 
cerebral cases, neurologist, coma, treating head injuries, a yoga 
practitioner, physical instructor, professor of psychology, self- 
ventures, and advisor in his own field. 



Chapter 5: The Houses and Their Significations 87 

Education: 

Psychology, yoga, neurology, gymnasium, art of counseling, 
athleticism. 

Diseases: 

If the Ascendant or its lord or both are afflicted by malefic 
Planets or lords of 6th or 8th or 12th house then the person 
will suffer disease in the parts or organs represented by the 
first house. The nature of disease will depend upon the 
nature of the Planet that causes affliction. In the case of 
first house the native may suffer diseases like Meningitis, 
headache, brain tumor, brain fever, vertigo, head injury, insanity, 
forgetfulness, depression, epilepsy, Parkinson's disease, Bell's 
palsy and cerebral hemorrhage. 

Mode of Death: 

Sudden, self- undoing or suicide, head injury. 

Marriage: 

By self-efforts, personal choice. 

Second House: 

It is an invisible house and operates under Tamasic mode. It is an 
important part of materialistic triplicity and represents physical 
possessions, wealth and accumulation of money, speech, family 
relation, eye sight, gems, jewels, death, and metals. The quality 
and quantum of the significations of the second house will depend 
upon the sign rising on the second house, the strength of the lord 
of the second house and the influence of planets on second house 
and its lord. 



88 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Profession: 

If the lord of the second house is connected with the tenth house 
the person may take up the profession as professionals in financial 
institution, revenue departments, economists, accountants, cashier, 
professor of mathematics or economics, dentist ophthalmogist, 
gastro-entremologist, announcer, sound engineer, receptionist, 
dealer in metals, jewelers, gemonologist, moneylenders. 

Education: 

Economics, mathematics, financial management, cost accountancy, 
auditing, sound or acoustic engineering, ophthalmology, dentistry, 
cosmetics and plastic surgery, company secretary ship, public 
speaking. 

Diseases: 

If the second house or its lord or both are afflicted by malefic 
Planets or lords of 6th or 8th or 12th house then the person 
will suffer disease in the parts or organs represented by the 
second house. The nature of disease will depend upon the 
nature of the Planet that causes affliction. In the case of 
second house the native may suffer diseases like eyes, throat, 
tongue, speech, teeth, oral cavity, tonsils, neck, cerebellum, 
cheeks, and gums. 

Mode of death: 

Natural death, assassination if there is a common link between 2 
and 8. 

Marriage: 

Within the family or through the assistance of the family members. 



Chapter 5: The Houses and Their Significations 89 

Third House: 

It is the first cadent house and belongs to the Airy triplicity. It 
operates under Sattwic influence. It signifies mind, younger co- 
bom, courage, confidence, fairness, short-journeys, mental 
inclination and ability, memory, communication skills, change of 
residence, writing capability, rumors. 

Profession: 

If the lord of the third house is connected with the tenth house 
then the person may take up profession as professionals in ENT 
department, communication department, print media information 
center, stage artists, journalists, news correspondents, neurologists, 
chest specialists, physic therapists, anesthetist, traders, commission 
agents. 

Education: 

Physics, electronics, computer, electrical engg. Journalism, 
communication, art of publication and writing skills, ENT, thoracic 
and chest, pranayama, physiotherapy, radio engg. AIDS. 

Diseases: 

If the third house or its lord or both are afflicted by malefic 
Planets or lords of 6th or 8th or 12th house then the person 
will suffer disease in the parts or organs represented by the 
third house. The nature of disease will depend upon the 
nature of the Planet that causes affliction. In the case of 
third house the native may suffer diseases like Audio- visual 
sensory organs, arms, shoulders, bronchitis, breasts, and 
respiratory system. 



90 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Mode of Death: 

Sudden due to a stroke, death while in journey. 

Marriage: 

Through correspondence or with the assistance of neighbors or 
younger co-bom in a nearby place. 

Fourth House: 

The fourth house stands for education, mother, house, and private 
life, transport, landed property, domestic happiness, old age, and 
seduction. 

Profession: 

If the lord of the fourth house is connected with the tenth house 
then the person may take up the profession as real estate, interior 
decorator, civil and production engineers, manufactures, 
industrialists, cardiologist, lung specialists, agriculturists, veterinary 
doctor, Timber merchants, manager, restaurants, dairy farming, 
builders. 

Education: 

Civil engg, agriculture engg, veterinary service, farming, automobile 
engg, machinery, geography, botany, home science, cardiology, 
chest disease. 

Diseases: 

If the fourth house or its lord or both are afflicted by malefic 
Planets or lords of 6th or 8th or 12th house then the person 
will suffer disease in the parts or organs represented by the 
fourth house. The nature of disease will depend upon the 



Chapter 5: The Houses and Their Significations 91 

nature of the Planet that causes affliction. In the case of 
fourth house the native may suffer diseases like heart, lungs, 
blood vessel, and cardio vascular system. 

Mode of Death: 

Due to accident, at home, old age, debris. 

Marriage: 

With a near relative, with the help of mother, with a person bom at 
the same place. 

Fifth House: 

This operates under the fixed- fire combination and it represents 
an individual's reaction to his past. Our ancients related this house 
to wisdom, religion, traditional laws intelligence. Intuitive 
perception of the future, socially accepted forms of courtship i.e. 
romantic affairs, progeny, sports and cultural activities, artistic and 
creative pursuits, speculation. 

Profession: 

If the lord of the fifth house is connected with the tenth house then 
the person may take up the profession as related to stock 
exchange, sports organization, arts and culture, cinema, places of 
amusement, manufacturing units of toys for children, pediatrician 
gynecologist, general physicians, nuclear scientists, atomic energy 
department, religion teachers, pundits, and allergist. 

Education: 

Atomic energy, nuclear science, arts and sports, music, 
architecture, gynecology, pediatrics, cinematography. 



92 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Diseases: 

If the fifth house or its lord or both are afflicted by malefic 
Planets or lords of 6th or 8th or 12th house then the person 
will suffer disease in the parts or organs represented by the 
fifth house. The nature of disease will depend upon the 
nature of the Planet that causes affliction. In the case of 
fifth house the native may suffer diseases like Viral disease, 
disease due to blood cells, liver, upper abdomen, intestinal and 
stomach problems, diarrhea, spinal affections heart troubles. 

Mode of Death: 

During celebration, sports activities, delivery, death may take place 
in gambling house, stock exchange or playing field. 

Marriage: 

Love marriage, marriage with a sportsperson or artist. It may be 
through the family of the mother. 

Sixth House: 

The sixth house in the horoscope is essentially the house of 
difficulties, straggles, oppositions of various kind, painful incidents. 
Being an invisible house all these may be attributed to the acts of 
omission and commission of past lives. It is an important house of 
the materialistic triplicity and such represents employment and 
service. This is also the house of sickness, debt enemies and 
litigation. It represents the separation from the partner. However 
this house is called the house of victory and gain over opponents 
because this is the 12th house to 7th house. 



Chapter 5: The Houses and Their Significations 93 

Profession: 

If the lord of the sixth house is connected with the tenth house 
then the person may take up the profession as public health 
department, chemists, repairing units in a factory, poultry farms, 
veterinary department, advocates, doctors, nurses, dealers in 
leather, labour oriented jobs, dealers in plastics. 

Education: 

Textiles chemistry, medicines, law, biology, drugs, radiology. 

Diseases: 

If the sixth house or its lord or both are afflicted by malefic 
Planets or lords of 6th or 8th or 12th house then the person 
will suffer disease in the parts or organs represented by the 
sixth house. The nature of disease will depend upon the 
nature of the Planet that causes affliction. In the case of 
sixth house the native may suffer diseases like Large 
intestines, pancreas, diabetes, peptic ulcers, colic, worms, 
appendicitis and hernia. 

Mode of death: 

Sickness, shock from separation of partner, over exhaustion, out 
of fear. 

Marriage: 

With or through a colleague, servant, cousin or a subordinate. 



94 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Seventh House: 

The seventh house is nearly as open, prominent and inevitable as 
the first, although to a less extent. The experience of the seventh 
house comes through others viz. partners and associates whose 
interests are blended with those of the native whether in love or 
hate, help or rivalry. It is called "Kshetra" the sphere of action 
wherein life's battle is fought. It is also known as "Kalatra 
Sathanam" - the place of wife, specifically it signifies spouse, sexual 
union, the winning of one's object or desire, semen, genitals, and 
all secret pleasures arising from sexual union. Seventh house is the 
counterbalancing force of the first house. It also signifies trade, 
private business, foreign places, social relationships and a break 
in journey. 

Profession: 

If the lord of the seventh house is connected with the tenth house 
then the person may take up the profession as Judge in a court of 
Law, Public relations officer, Embassy, Marriage bureaus, 
Advocate dealing divorce cases or marital problems, 
Nephrologists, Public administration departments, Employment 
in private companies, Brothels, Prostitution, Sexologists, Doctors 
dealing in venereal diseases, Private business. 

Education: 

Business Management, International Law, Sociology, Gynecology, 
Nephrology, Sexology. 

Diseases: 

If the 7th house or its lord or both are afflicted by malefic 
Planets or lords of 6th or 8th or 12th house then the person 
will suffer disease in the parts or organs represented by the 



Chapter 5: The Houses and Their Significations 95 

7th house. The nature of disease will depend upon the nature 
of the Planet that causes affliction. In the case of 7th house 
the native may suffer diseases like Urinary system, Kidneys, 
Uterus, Ovaries, Testicles, Prostrate glands, Semen, Venereal 
diseases, Impotence, Frigidity/sterility, Menstrual disorders. 

Mode of Death: 

Natural death, death in a combat, at a foreign place, due to kidney 
failure or AIDS. 

Marriage: 

Legal or registered marriage, Marriage with a business partner or 
a known public figure. 

Eighth House: 

The eighth house represents the hidden aspects of one's life, serious 
diseases, unexpected gains or losses, concealed wealth, 
knowledge of the hidden laws of nature, psychological applications 
or mental sufferings, Death, Longevity, storehouse of expansive 
energy latent in microcosm, Rectum, Accidents, Quarrels, False 
allegation, damage in reputation, unearned income, surgery, 
slaughter house, rapes, gift cheques, earth quakes, incurring losses, 
insurance claims, hurdles in journey. 

Profession: 

If the lord of the eighth house is connected with the tenth house 
then the person may take up the profession as historians, 
Archaeologists, Geologists, Personals working in insurance, 
mining, tax collection, Auditing, CID, CBI Departments, pension 
cells, surgeons, ONGC department, Death and Estate duty 



96 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

collectors, Advocates practicing criminal cases or cases dealing 
with legacies and wills, urologists. 

Education: 

History, geology, mining engg, urology, study of secret parts, 
sanitary engg, surgical equipments, auditing, investigations, 
criminology, archaeology, old pathies, dermatology, surgery, 
orthopedics. 

Diseases: 

If the 8th house or its lord or both are afflicted by malefic 
Planets or lords of 6th or 8th or 12th house then the person 
will suffer disease in the parts or organs represented by the 
8th house. The nature of disease will depend upon the nature 
of the Planet that causes affliction. In the case of 8th house 
the native may suffer diseases like genitals, rectum, scortum, 
piles, fistula, tumours, ulcers, incurable diseases, hydrocele. 

Mode of Death: 

Sudden death due to serious disease or self-undoing, accident, 
surgery, suicide. 

Marriage: 

Sudden and unexpected marriage, marriage with or through old 
friends. 

Ninth House: 

The ninth house, known as Bhagya Sthanam, operates under the 
influence of the principle of Mutability and Fire and thus shows 



Chapter 5: The Houses and Their Significations 97 

introspections, aspirations towards future and the possibilities of 
the higher mind. It represents religion, philosophy, austerity, worship 
and poorvapunya or the accumulation of auspicious karma from 
past lives, divine wisdom, spiritual disciplines, mystic initiations, 
enlightenment, higher education, long journey, legal disciplines, 
internal and external communications, long distance 
communications, extra marital relationships, second marriage and 
father. 

Profession: 

If the lord of the ninth house is connected with the tenth house 
then the person may take up the profession as and in research 
organizations, university, religious organizations, honorary posts, 
export houses, pilot, travel agents, politicians, Aeronautical 
department, space technology organizations, Advocates. 

Education: 

Aeronautical engg, space technology, religion, Law, colorectal 
surgery, genetic disorders, transplant of organs, Sanskrit. 

Diseases: 

If the 9th house or its lord or both are afflicted by malefic 
Planets or lords of 6th or 8th or 12th house then the person 
will suffer disease in the parts or organs represented by the 
9th house. The nature of disease will depend upon the nature 
of the Planet that causes affliction. In the case of 9th house 
the native may suffer diseases like Paralysis, femoral arteries, 
Groin, hips, swellings, diseases caused by increase of fat, blood 
and water, Bronchitis sciatica. 



98 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Mode of Death: 

Death at a far off place or during long journey, during transplant of 
an organ. 

Marriage: 

Legitimate second marriage or marriage with an unknown person 
from distant place, family, marriage with the younger co-bom of 
the partner. 

Tenth House: 

The tenth house signifies the highest point of one's glory, the target 
set for the soul in a specific birth. It relates to the outward 
development and expression of the inherent qualities of the 
individual during his process of social interactions. Success in life 
is determined on the basis of the 10th house. The Ascendant 
represents the quantum and quality of energy at the disposal of 
the individual. If the Ascendant is powerful, we can expect that 
the individual will attain his target. But if the Ascendant is weak or 
is not commensurate with the requirements of the 10th house, the 
life of the individual may promise much but little success. The lO111 

house represents profession, honour, the quality of leadership, 
Karma of the soul, Government service, administrative jobs, and 
achievement in the material world. 

Profession: 

If the lord of the tenth house is connected with the tenth house 
then the person may take up the profession in Government 
organizations, production houses, politics, self-venture, managers. 



Chapter 5: The Houses and Their Significations 99 

Education: 

Production technology, professional diseases, politics, 
administration. 

Diseases: 

If the 10th house or its lord or both are afflicted by malefic 
Planets or lords of 6th or 8th or 12th house then the person 
will suffer disease in the parts or organs represented by the 
10th house. The nature of disease will depend upon the 
nature of the Planet that causes affliction. In the case of 
10th house the native may suffer diseases like Knees, spinal 
cord, and back pain. 

Mode of Death: 

Death at work place or at the place of the partner. 

Marriage: 

With a person at work place, marriage that brings honour and 
status to the native. 

Eleventh House: 

This house is traditionally known as the house of fulfillment of 
one's desires, gain or profit, political status, friends, elder co- 
bom, satisfaction of personal needs, hopes. 

Profession: 

If the lord of the eleventh house is connected with the tenth house 
then the person may take up the profession as and in Computer 



100 True Astrology- "Basicand Traditional Concepts" 

hardware, general physicians, charitable institution, commercial 
houses, and journalists. 

Education: 

Commerce, polymer technology, general medicines, gynecology. 

Diseases: 

If the 11th house or its lord or both are afflicted by malefic 
Planets or lords of 6th or 8th or 12th house then the person 
will suffer disease in the parts or organs represented by the 
11th house. The nature of disease will depend upon the 
nature of the Planet that causes affliction. In the case of 
11th house the native may suffer diseases like pain or injury 
in lower Legs, left ear, tibia and calf muscles or circulatory system. 

Mode of Death: 

Death at a time when the person has achieved his ambition, at a 
friend's place. 

Marriage: 

With a member of a family of friend, or through the efforts of the 
elder co-bom. 

Twelfth House: 

This house represents the end of all activities of one's life, death, 
expenditures, foreign travel, imprisonment, hospitalization, 
renunciation, the pleasures of bed, and all kinds of misfortune. It 
also signifies how the individual will discharge his debt. It is known 
as the house of secret activities and enemies. 



Chapter 5: The Houses and Their Significations 101 

Profession: 

If the lord of the 12th house is connected with the tenth house 
then the person may take up the profession as a personal in Jail 
department, Hospitals, Investigating agents, detectives, research 
organizations, asylums, foreign countries. 

Education: 

Foreign language, secret arts, research. 

Diseases: 

If the 12th house or its lord or both are afflicted by malefic 
Planets or lords of 6th or 8th or 12th house then the person 
will suffer disease in the parts or organs represented by the 
12th house. The nature of disease will depend upon the 
nature of the Planet that causes affliction. In the case of 
12th house the native may suffer diseases like: Injury in Feet, 
left eye, heel, sole, and insomnia, lymphatic system. 

Mode of Death: 

In a hospital, at a far off place, may be due to involvement in 
secret activities or serious illness. 

Marriage: 

With a foreigner, or at a far off place. 



Chapter 6 

Nakshatras 

Our ancients used to analyse the influence of the zodiac on planets 
by dividing the zodiac into 27 parts, each of 13 deg. 20 min. each 
part is called a Nakshatra or the lunar mansion. Other names in 
vogue for Nakshatra are Star, Constellation, and Asterism. For 
minute analysis they have further divided each Nakshatra into four 
parts, each of 3 degree 20 minutes; these parts are called Padas 
or Charans or Quarters. According to the Vedas, Nakshatras 
represent the abodes into which the fruits of our labour, our karmas, 
are transferred and stored. Our ancients, therefore, knew clearly 
and categorically that why at the time of native's birth each planet 
takes a specific position in the zodiac so as to reflect the destiny 
of the individual. The following table indicates the names of the 
Nakshatra, the area of their influence and also the planet which 
has been assigned its lordship over the Nakshatra and its quarters. 

Divisions of Nakshatras: 

They are divided as per the Law of Polarity, Motivating Impulse 
(corresponding to Element Theory) viz dharma (life purpose), artha 
(wealth), Kama (fulfillment of desire), and moksha (enlightenment), 
and Law of Mode of Action as illustrated by the following Table. 

This table also shows the direction over which the Nakshatra has 
therulership. 



Chapter6: Nakshatras 103 

Nakshatras Area Sign Nak Nak Qtr Ruller 
of the Ruler Ruler 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 

Zodiac 
Ashwini 0° to 13°.20' Mars Ketu Ma Ve Me Mo 

Aries 
Bharani 13°.20' to 26° .40' Mars Venus Su Me Ve Ma 

Aries 
Krittika 26o.40' to 30° Mars Sun Ju Sa Sa Ju 

Aries 
00° to 10° Venus Sun Sa Sa Ju 

Taurus 
Rohini 10o.00'to 23°.20' Venus Moon Ma Ve Me Mo 

Taurus 
Mrigshira 23o.20' to 30° Venus Mars Su Me Ve Ma 

Taurus 
00° to 6°.40' Mercury Mars Ve Ma 

Gemini 
Ardra 6° .40' to 20° Mercury Rahu Ju Sa Sa Ju 

Gemini 
Punarvasu 20°.00' to 30° Mercury Jup Ma Ve Me Mo 

Gemini 
00° to 3o.20' Moon Jup Mo 

Cancer 
Pushya 3o.20' to 16o.40' Moon Sat Su Me Ve Ma 

Cancer 
Ashlesha 16o.40' to 30o.00' Moon Merc Ju Sa Sa Ju 

Cancer 
Magha 00o.0'to 13o.20' Sun Ketu Ma Ve Me Mo 

Leo 
Purva 13o.20' to 26o.20' Sun Venus Su Me Ve Ma 
Phalguni I xxi 



104 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Nakshatras Area Sign Nak Nak Qtr Ruller 
of the Ruler Ruler 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 

Zodiac 
Uttara 26°.40'to 30° Sun Sun Ju Sa Sa Ju 
Phalguni Leo 

00° to 10° Mercury Sun Sa Sa Ju 
Virgo 

Hasta 10° to 23o.20' Mercury Moon Ma Ve Me Mo 
Virgo 

Chitra 23o.20' to 30° Mercury Mars Su Me Ve Ma 
Virgo 

00° to 6o.40' Venus Mars Ve Ma 
Libra 

Swati 6o.40' to 20° Venus Rahu Ju Sa Sa Ju 
Libra 

Vishakha 20o.00' to 30° Venus Jup Ma Ve Me Mo 
Libra 

00° to 3°.20' Mars Jup Mo 
Scorpio 

Anuradha 3°.20' to 16o.40' Mars Sat Su Me Ve Ma 
Scorpio 

Jyestha 16o.40' to 30° Mars Merc Ju Sa Sa Ju 
Scorpio 

Mula 00°.0' to 13o.20' Jup Ketu Ma Ve Me Mo 
Sagittarius 

Purva 13o.20to 26o.40' Jup Venus Su Me Ve Ma 
Ashadha Sagattarius 
LTttara 26o.40, to 30° Jup Sun Ju Sa Sa Ju 
Ashadha Sagittarius 

00° to 10° Saturn Sun Sa Sa Ju 
Capricon 

Shravana 10o.00'to 23o.20' Saturn Moon Ma Ve Me Mo 
Capricon 



Chapter 6: Nakshatras 105 

Nakshatras Area Sign Nak Nak Qtr Ruller 
of the Ruler Ruler 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 

Zodiac 
Dhani- 23°.20' to 30° Saturn Mars Su Me Ve Ma 
-shtha Capricon 

00° to 6° .40' atum Mars Ve Ma 
Aquarius 

Shata- 6°.40' to 2O0 Sat Rahu Ju Sa Sa Ju 
-bhisha Aquarius 
Purva 20° .00' to 30° Sat Jup Ma Ve Me Mo 
Bhadrapada Aquarius 

00° to 3°.20' Jup Jup Mo 
Pisces 

Uttara 3o.20' to \6°.W Jup Sat Su Me Ve Ma 
Bhadrapada Pisces 
Revati 16° .40' to 30° Jup Merc Ju Sa Sa Ju 

Pisces 

Nakshatra Sex Motivating Guna Dir 
Impulse 

1. Ashwini M Dharma Rajas South 

2. Bharani M Artha Rajas West 

3. Krittika F Kama Rajas North 

4. Rohini F Moksha Rajas East 

5. Mrigshira F Moksha Rajas South 

6. Ardra F Kama Rajas West 

7. Punarvasu F Artha Rajas North 

8. Pushya M Dharma Rajas East 

9. Ashlesha M Dharma Rajas South 

10 . Maeha M Artha Tamas West 



106 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

11. PurvaPhalguni F Kama Tamas North 

12. UttaraPhalguni M Moksha Tamas East 

13. Hasta F Moksha Tamas South 

14. Chitra F Kama Tamas West 

15. Swati M Artha Tamas North 

16. Vishakha F Dharma Tamas East 

17. Anuradha F Dharma Tamas South 

18. Jyestha M Artha Tamas West 

19. Mula M Kama Sattwa North 

20. Purvashada M Moksha Sattwa East 

21. Uttarashada M Moksha Sattwa South 

22. Shravana M Artha Sattwa North 

23. Dhanishtha F Dharma Sattwa East 

24. Satbhisha F Dharma Sattwa South 

25. PurvaBhadra M Artha Sattwa West 

26. Uttara Bhadra F Kama Sattwa North 

27. Revati F Moksha Sattwa East 

Nakshatras and their Significations: 

Each Nakshatra and its quarter are assigned a particular area in 
the Zodiac. Since each quarter of the Nakshatra is under the 
influence of a particular fixed star, they have specific energy 
content. To facilitate learning and their use in predictive Astrology, 
each Nakshatra and its quarters have been assigned planetary 
rulership on correspondence principle. The significations of each 
Nakshatra for various aspects are shown in the following 
paragraphs. 



Chapters: Nakshatras 107 

Nakshatras and their General Significations 

Sr. Nakshatras Significations 
No. 

1. Ashwini Extravagant, brother's ailment, avaricious, 
worried about landed properties, dispute with 
brother, partition, black magic, they can pray 
Lord Ganesha or Subramanya or Anjaneya. 

2. Bharani Mind always fond of pleasure, enterprises, 
avaricious, amorous, aspiring, chain smokers, 
slayers, cruel men, low-bom person, wanting 
in character but nothing holds them down 
for too long. 

3. Krittika Militant temperament, push-up, go ahead 
spirit, normally robust health, good health, 
competitive mind, argumentative ability, will 
eat much, will be drawn to other people's 
wives. 

4. Rohini Good nature, enjoys nature, taste in music, 
art, drama, enjoy life in company of other 
sex, pure maternal affection, sweet tongued. 

5. Mrigshira Enthusiasm, sharp, quick- witted, alert tongue 
more poisonous than snake, gives mental 
energy, fluent, magnetic. Acme of 
selfishness. 

6. Ardra Unsuccessful in literary pursuit, good 
character reader, resourceful mind, active 
mind, ingenious and critical, slayer, 
adulterers, thieves, rogues, will be perfidious, 
haughty, sinful, ungrateful and mischievous. 

7. Punarvasu Good memory, correct intuition. Marketing/ 
Financial Management, Insurance, I.A.S, 
Journalism, Astrology, English Literature. 



108 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

8. Pushya Attentive, self -reliant, position of truth 
careful, sober, economical, frugal, has a 
Systematic and methodical action Minister, 
King, fisherman, person engaged in big and 
small sacrifices, honest folk, forests, wheat, 
barley, rice and sugarcane. 

9. Ashlesha Good writer, ingenious, versatile, quick wit, 
fluent and copious in speech, acquires other 
languages easily, inclined to eat any thing, 
sinful, ungrateful. 

10. Magha Sensual, impulsive, proud short tempered, 
enthusiastic and energetic, good sportsman, 
fiery temper, outspoken, defencive, hasty, 
contact with people in very high position, 
will enjoy healthy and have many servants, 
worship the god. 

11. Purva Phalguni Fond of pleasure, true, honest, cautious, able 
to fulfill his desires, competence in music, 
art, kavi-poet, warm hearted, affectionate, 
taste in drawing, sculpture and paintings, 
photography as hobby, artists, young 
damsels, amiable persons, merchandise, 
cotton, salt oil, honey, manly boys. Will speak 
sweetly and loyal to his sovereign.. 

12. Uttar Phalguni Tactful, intelligent, good reasoning, mind 
good in mathematics or engineering, clever, 
diplomatic, eloquent and educated, hygiene 
and sanitary engineer, accounts, business, 
acumen, advertising. 

13. Hasta Traders and energetic men, man versed in 
Vedas, merchandises, will be industrious, 
fond of drinking, merciless and thievish, 
elephant driver, robbers, artisans, elephants, 
husked grains. 



Chapter 6: Nakshatras 109 

14. Chitra Courageous, energetic, humorous, 
dexterous, practical, business like, 
enterprising, active or quick tempered, 
sarcastic, impatient, over working and 
irritable. Will wear beautiful garments and 
flowers and will have beautiful eyes and 
limbs. 

15. Swati Honest, courteous, compassionate, just, 
intellect, perceptive, flexible, sweet nature, 
fond of company, slow to grasp but 
remembers well, slow to loose temper, 
sympathetic, powers of comparison, traders, 
feeble character, fickle minded friends, 
ascetic. Will be modest; may be clever in 
trade, and sweet in speech. 

16. Vishakha Polite, faith in god, attractive appearance, 
pleasant manner, universal love, generous, 
broadminded, talented, cultural, will be 
envious, covetous, of bright appearance, 
clever in talking, quarrelsome. 

17. Anuradha Dominant, forceful or selfish, determined, 
energetic, untruthful, dishonest, harsh, cruel, 
and unscrupulous. 

18. Jyestha Ingenious, good humour, bold, studious, quick 
in action, resourceful, learned, blunt, fond 
of wit, exaggeration, poisonous tongue, great 
maternal heroes, those that are endowed 
with noble family and wealth, and fame, 
intent on consequence, commandants and 
thieves. Will not have many friends, will be 
virtuous and exceedingly irritable. 

19. Mula Commanding others esteem, honest, cordial, 
respectful, generous, law-abiding, god 
fearing, charitable, religious, buoyant, always 



110 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

contemplative, social. Will be proud, healthy, 
firm minded, happy but luxurious in living. 

20. Purvashada Broad minded, honest, loves others, polite, 
educated, pleasing manner, optimistic, 
moderate, loves expensive and ultra 
comfortable things, fond of drama and art. 
Navigators, fishermen, tenderhearted men, 
aquatic animals, those that live by water, 
devoted to truth, purity and wealth. Will have 
an amiable wife, will be firm in friendship. 

21. Uttarashada Nobel aspiring disposition, philanthropic, 
law-abiding, funny and jovial, cheerful, 
hopeful, no mind to have "tainted money", 
pillars of good society, cheerful, proficiency 
in some branch of learning. 

22. Shravana Conservative, cautious, economical, careful, 
sober, true, sincere, faithful worker, attentive, 
perseverance, devotees of Vishnu, righteous 
men and truthful person, possess a 
generously-disposed wife, will be wealthy 
and famous. 

23. Dhanishtha Active, alert, firm will, decisive, careful and 
forceful, cautious and courageous, vindictive 
and violent, occasionally ambitious, fond of 
music, men with arrogance and pride, 
greedy, eunuchs, rich people, avoiding 
disputes. 

24. Satbhisha Independent, strong, forceful, sincere, 
preserving, patient, original, lazy, fond of 
leisure and holiday, fond of working 
separately. 

25. Purvabhadra Honest, truth, sincere, hopeful, optimistic, 
interest in science, astronomy, astrology. 



Chapters: Nakshatras 111 

literature, capable of extracting work from 
others, helpful, unselfish. If a malefic is in 
this zone in the ascendant: murderer, robber, 
irreligious, hen pecked, and miser, clever. 

26. Uttarbhadra Benevolent disposition, strong character, 
fond of society, desire to help the poor and 
invalid, visitors of jails, sanatoriums, original, 
independent. 

27. Revati Human sympathetic, religious, flexible, 
impressionable mind, shrewd, clever, ripe 
judgment, honest, studious, sober, mental 
balance, caring for integrity. 

Nakshatras and Profession 

Sr. Nakshatras Profession 
No. 

1. Ashwini Military, medical, police, surgery, jail, 
railways, iron, steel, copper, machinery. 
Physicians, attendants, horse dealer, 
handsome person as traders. 

2. Bharani Art advertisement, mobile, fertilizer, silk, 
wrestler, railway, veterinary doctors, hotels, 
restaurants, criminal lawyer, judge, optician, 
agriculturists, leather, manufacturers, skins 
and hides, gynecologists, fertility clinics, 
prostitution, biologists and microbiologists. 

3. Krittika Travels, industry, medical, surgical, navy, 
acquisition of lands, bombs, crackers, match 
boxes, iron and steel utensils, war materials, 
judges, technical professions, black smiths, 
police department, defense department. 



112 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

4. Rohini Bakeries, bar, oils, milk, ice cream, soap, 
sandalwood, paints, dyes, marriage broker, 
dress and pearl dealer, liquids, acids, sugar, 
cart men, cows. 

5. Mrigshira Mobile structures, fertilizers, tailor, 
automobile engineer, skin and hides, tobacco, 
estate owner, land, building, veterinary 
doctors, animal husbandry. 

6. Ardra Post and telegraph department, 
communication, transport, bookseller, 
advertisement, author, finger print expert, 
finance broker, dealing in drugs, beverages, 
canned goods. 

7. Punarvasu Story writing, editing, publishing, law, 
literature, insurance agency, accountants, 
auditors, judges, school master, interpreter. 
Astrologer, clerk, clothes, woolen 
merchants. 

8. Pushya Deals in agricultural lands, mine products, 
kerosene, coal, petrol. Holding positions of 
trust, sexton, jailor, engineer digging wells; 
those who work at nights and underground, 
politicians, teachers and education experts. 

9. Ashlesha Business, commerce, international trade, 
agent, author, writer, water supply engineer, 
dealer in yarn, pen, paper, guide, hostess. 
Astrologer, midwife, nurse. 

10. Magha Government services or security in service, 
jewelers, manufacturers of nickel, chromium 
plated surgical instruments, lawyers, weapon 
manufacturer. 



Chapter 6: Nakshatras 113 

11. Purva Phalguni Preservation of monuments, government 
service, renovation of ancient painting, radio, 
transport, disinfectant for crops, veterinary 
surgeon, vice chancellor, glass dealers. 

12. Uttar Phalguni Any service under government, commerce, 
stock exchange, maternity home, lecturer, 
education department, communication 
department, contractors, physicians. 

13. Hasta Overseas, mail order business, clearing 
agent, engineer, bridges, canals, dams, 
export, import, politician, ambassador. 

14. Chitra Supplier to jail, criminal lawyer, tax 
department. Finance department, police of 
law and order and traffic, defense 
department, cost accounts, military 
accounts. 

15. Swati Mobile, automobile, transportation, music, 
drama, exhibition, x-ray instrument 
manufacturer, confectionary, readymade 
dress, plastic, mica, pasteurized milk. 

16. Vishakha Tourist officer, shipping, air travel, race 
goers, tax and revenue department, judge, 
auditor, professor, principal, auditor, actor, 
jewelry, perfumeries, minting. 

17. Anuradha Mechanical engineer, mine engineer, 
medicine, actor, homeopathy, brothel, water 
diviner, judge, watchman, plumbers, mine ore 
dealer dentist, service in jail. 

18. Jyestha Insurance agent, surgical instrument, tonics, 
scrums manufacturers, publication, textile 
mill, session judge, cable and wire 
manufacturer. 



114 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

19. Mula Religious endowment, social worker, judge, 
teacher, physician, councilor, provision dealer, 
assembly speaker, exchange, imports, 
dealing in fruits, flowers, dentists, police 
officers, detectives, judges, astronomers, 
astrologers, nuclear physicists. 

20. Purvashada Banker, cashier, accountant, director, 
revenue and finance department, social 
studies welfare officer, foreign trade, 
exchange, restaurants, hostels, women and 
children hospital, health center. 

21. Uttarashada Position of trust, mine, coal, scientific 
research, finance department, control 
department, monuments, archaeology, 
antiquities, ancient language, skins, hides, 
wool. 

22. Shravana Minister, kings, fishermen, plumber, mine 
products, wells, trenches, excavation, 
agriculturist, drivers, those who serve at 
night, underground, submarine, pearls. 

23. Dhanishtha Homeopathy, Jail department, mine and 
ground engineer, insurance, philosopher, 
murderers, slaughter house, labour 
department, industry, tools, spares parts. 

24. Satbhisha Scientist, atomic theory, air travel, occult 
subject, astronomer, astrologer, ration officer, 
censor, census. Jail department, translation, 
translators, of old manuscript, factories, 
tanneries, counterfeit. 

25. Purvabhadra Minister, councilor, politician, president, 
judge, criminal lawyer, visitors of jails, 
planning commission, explorer, physician, 
bank, foreign exchange, prisoners of wars. 



Chapter 6: Nakshatras 115 

26. Uttarbhadra Engineer, public appointment, export, import, 
storekeepers, asylum, shipping, C.I.D., 
education, tourist home, manufacturer of 
raincoats, umbrellas, boats, tunnel 
construction, canal, trench excavators, 
writers, poets, historians. 

27. Revati Editor, publisher, lawyer, judge, auditor, 
industry, finger print expert, share broker, 
diplomat, astrologer, purohits, governor, clerk, 
excise, accountant, successful diplomat, 
mathematician, agent, bank. 

Nakshatras and Education 

Sr. Nakshatras Education. 
No. 

1. Ashwini Engineering- Agriculture, Electronics, 
Chemical, Civil, Arts, Law, Mathematics, 
Zoology, Botany. 

2. Bharani B.A, Home Science, Foreign Language, 
Law, Banking, Insurance, Computer 
Science, Engineering - Chemical, Civil, 
Pharmacy, Electrical. 

3. Krittika Bachelor of Dental Surgery, ENT, M.B.A, 
Journalism, Literature, Foreign Language, 
Publication, Civil/Chemical Engineering, 
Aeronautical. 

4. Rohini Pharmacy, Dr.-Eye, dental. Veterinary, 
Geology, Water works. Dermatologist, 
Criminal Law, Interior Decorator, Catering 

5. Mrigshira Engineering - Mechanical, Textile, 
Chemical, Sound, Electrical, Law, Eye / 
Dentist, Cinema, 



116 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

6. Ardra Transport/Agriculture/Rubber Engineering. 
Animal Husbandry, Atomic research. 
Journalism, Physician. 

7. Punarvasu M.Com, Company Secretary, Auditor, 
Marketing/ Financial Management, 
Insurance, I.A.S, Journalism, Astrology, 
English Literature, political science. 

8. Pushya Drafts man, B.A, Agricultural/Hardware/ 
Water works engineer Mathematics, 
Economics, M.A 

9. Ashlesha Civil/Mechanical/Transport/Instrumental 
Engineering, Ground water. Waste water. 
Pharmacy, Master of Law, Sales & 
Marketing 

10. Magha Bachelor of Medicine, Surgery, Ayurvedic, 
Child health. Pharmacy, Music, History. 

Diploma in Gynecology, Obstetrics, Medical 
11. Purva Phalguni 

Radiology, Nursing, B.Ed, M.Tech, 
Computer Engg., M.B.A. 

M.Tech, Electrical Engineer, Tourism, 
12. Uttar Phalguni 

Teaching, Master of Surgery, Heart, Chest, 
Veterinary, Hospital Management. 

Diploma in Venereology, Neurology, 
13. Hasta 

Leprosy, Forensic Medicine, Dental Surgery, 
Mining Engg. Hospital's Administration. 

B.A, Law, Literature, Bachelor of Science 
14. Chitra 

in Agriculture/Fisheries/Ayurvedic medicine. 
Bank Management, Civil engg. Environmen 
Management. 

15. Swati Bachelor of Library, Master of Arts, M.B.A, 
Diploma in Gynecology, obstetrics, 
dermatology, venerology. Master of Surgery. 



Chapters: Nakshatras 117 

16. Vishakha B.Sc, B.Tech B.A, Law, Diploma in 
Homeopathy Medicine, Surgery, Radiology. 
Textile/Civil Engg. Architecture, City & 
Regional Planning. 

17. Anuradha Master of Law, M.B.A, Mining/Agriculture 
Engg, Pathology. 

18. Jyestha B.A, Literature/Corporate/Secretary, 
M.B.B. S, Medicine/Surgery/Ayurvedic 
Environmental Management, C.A. 

19. Mula B.A History, Economics, Physics, B.Sc. 
Computer, Engineering- Civil/Chemical/ 
Computer/Electrical & Electronics and 
Ophthamology. 

20. Purvashada B.A, M.Sc, C.A, Mathematics, Telecom, 
Textiles. 

B.A, Arts/Economics, Dental Surgery, 
21. Uttarashada 

M.Tech. B.Sc. Computer, Chemical 
Engineering. 

M.B.B. S. Medicine/Surgery/Anesthesia/ 
22. Shravana 

Chest Disease, B.Ed, M.Tech, Chemical 
Engineering, B.B.A. 

B.A, Bank Management, M.B.A, Literature, 
23. Dhanishtha 

Textiles. Hospital Management, Nursing. 

24. Satbhisha M.B.B.S,Medicine/Surgery/Dental/ 
Gynecology/Obstetrics/Pathology/ 
Microbiology, Agricultural Engg.electronics, 
technology experts, radar and X-ray experts, 
astronauts, astrologers. 

25. Purvabhadra Undergraduate, B.A, B.Ed, M.Sc. Diploma 
in Radiology/Electrology/Pharma 



118 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

26. Uttarbhadra B.E. Electrical/Textile/Marine/Mining 
B.Com, M.B.A, B.D.S. 

27. Revati Engineering- Industrial Instrumentation/ 
Electronics/Chemical/Polymer/Civil, 
Architecture, Arts & Crafts, Leather & 
Printing Technology, Doctor of Medicine. 

Nakshatras and the Body Parts 

Sr. Nakshatras Body Parts 
No. 

1. Ashwini Head, cerebral hemisphere. 

Head, cerebral hemisphere, eyes, organs 
2. Bharani within head. 

Head, eyes, brain, vision, 2nd, 3rd, 4th qtrs: 
3. Krittika face, neck, larynx, tonsils, lower jaw. 

Face, mouth, tongue, tonsils, palate, neck, 
4. Rohini cerebellum, cervical vertebrate. 

Face, chin, cheeks, larynx, palate, arteries, 
5. Mrigshira veins, inflamed tonsils throat, vocal cord, 

arms, shoulders, ears, thymus, upper ribs. 

6. Ardra Throat, arms, shoulders. 

7. Punarvasu Ear, throat, shoulders, blades lungs, chest, 
stomach, diaphragm, pancreas, lobes of liver, 
respiratory system, thoracic. 

8. Pushya Lungs, stomach, ribs, lips, mouth, ears. 

9. Ashlesha Lungs, stomach, esophagus, diaphragm, 
pancreas, liver. 



Chapter 6: Nakshatras 119 

10. Magha Heart, back, spinal chord, spleen, dorsal 
region of spine aorta. 

11. Purva Phalguni Heart, spinal cord. 

12. Uttara Phalguni Spinal Cord, intestines, bowels and liver. 

13. Hasta Bowels, intestines, secreting glands, 
enzymes. 

14. Chitra Belly, lower part, kidneys, loins, hernia, 
lumber region of spine, vasomotor system. 

15. Sv/ati Skin, kidneys, urethra, bladder. 

16. Vishakha Lower abdomen, bladder parts, kidneys, 
pancreatic gland, bladder, urethra, genitals, 
rectum, prostate gland, descending colon. 

17. Anuradha Bladder, genitals, rectum, nasal bones, bones 
near genitals. 

18. Jyestha Colon, anus, genitals, ovaries, womb. 

19. Mula Hips, thighs, femur, ileum, sciatica nerve. 

20. Purvashada Thighs, hips, filial arteries and veins, 
coccygeal and sacral regions of spine. 

21. Uttarashada Thighs, tumour, arteries, skin, knees, patella. 

22. Shravana Lymphatic vessels, knees, skin. 

23. Dhanishtha Knee cap bones, ankle, limbs, portion 
between knees & ankles. 

24. Satbhisha Portion between knees and ankles, calf 
muscles. 

25. Purvabhadra Ankles, feet and toes. 

26. Uttarbhadra Feet 

27. Revati Feet and toes. 



120 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Nakshatras and the Diseases 

Sr. Nakshatras Diseases 
No. 

1. Ashwini Congestion in brain, thrombosis, epilepsy 
fainting, head injury, strokes, spasm, coma, 
malaria, trance, small box, headache, 
neuralgia, cerebral hemorrhage, Bell's Palsy, 
meningitis, 

2. Bharani Forehead injury, cold, venereal distemper, 
syphilis, reins afflicted, affected face and 
vision, catarrh in the head, dissipating sexual 
habits & weakness, catarrh in the head. 

3. Krittika Cerebral meningitis, carbuncle, sharp fever, 
malaria, plague, small box, cuts, wounds, 
brain fever, injury, accidents, explosions, fire 
accident, pimple, reddish eye, throat 
troubles, swelling above neck, polypus of the 
nose. 

4, Rohirii Apoplexy, breast pain, swellings, sore-throat, 
cold, cough, goiter, leg-feet pain, irregular 
menses. 

5. Mrigshira Inflamed tonsils, pimples, throat pain, goiter, 
adenoids, diphtheria, constipation, venereal 
distemper, polypus, corrupted blood, itches, 
wounds and fracture of arms, collarbone, 
pains in the shoulders near collar bone, 
sciatica. 

6, Ardra Septic throat, mumps, asthma, dry-cough, 
pus in the ear, eosnophillia, diphtheria, ear- 
trouble. 



Chapter 6: Nakshatras 121 

7. Punarvasu Bronchitis, pneumonia, lacteals, thoraces, 
chest, beriberi, upset stomach, corrupt blood, 
tuberculosis, liver trouble, dyspepsia, 
jaundice. 

8. Pushya Tuberculosis, gastric ulcers, gall stone, cough, 
nausea, belching, braises in breast, cancer, 
jaundice, hiccups, eczema, dyspepsia. 
Ulceration in respiratory system. 

9. Ashlesha Cold-stomach, dropsy, windiness, knees & 
leg pains, hysteria, nervousness, indigestion, 
phlegm, flatulence, wind-pressing diaphragm 
making breathing difficult, nephritis. 

10. Magha Sudden heart shock, grief, poisoning, 
backache, cholera, fainting, spinal-meningitis, 
palpitation, gravel in kidneys. 

11. Purva Phalguni Spine-curvature, anemia, leg pain, swelling 
of ankles, B.P, affected valves, hydraemia, 
aneurysm swelling of heart and swelling of 
ankle. 

12. Uttar Phalguni Spotted fever, pains, B.P, fainting, madness, 
brain, blood, clotting, palpitation, stomach 
disorders, sore throat, bowel-tumours, neck 
swelling. 

13. Hasta Gas formation, loose bowels, short breath, 
worms, hysteria, typhoid, diarrhea, cholera, 
dysentery, fear complex, weakness of arms 
& shoulders, bowel disorders, amoebic. 

14. Cliitra Excess urine, renal stone, brain fever, 
lumbago, kidney hemorrhage, ulcers, sharp- 
acute pains, wounds, choleric humour, 
itching, irritation, worms, leg-pain, dry 



122 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

gripping pains, appendicitis, hernia, 
headache, sun stroke, poly urea, 
inflammation of urethra, Blight's disease, 
pains in head. 

15. Swati Body gasses, leprosy, urinary and skin 
trouble, hernia, eczema, Bright's disease, 
urethra-ulcerated, poly urea. 

16. Vishakha Womb disease, nose-bleeding, renal stone, 
dropsy, rupture, prostate-enlargement, 
fibroid, tumor, menstrual abnormal bleeding, 
urinary trouble, diabetes, sluggish kidneys, 
skin eruption, congestion of brain, uterine 
tumours, nose bleed. 

17. Anuradha Suppression of menses, constipation, sterility, 
piles, nasal catarrh phlegm, fracture of hip- 
bones, sore-throat strictures, colon stasis. 

18. Jyestha Bleeding piles, bowel-infection, tumors, 
fistula, distemper in secret parts, leucorrhoea, 
pain in arm & shoulders. 

19. Mula Rheumatism, hip-disease, pulmonary- 
troubles, loco motor ataxia. 

20. Purvashada Sciatica, diabetes, rheumatism, hip gout, 
respiratory disease, lung cancer, putrifaction 
of blood, surfeit cold. 

21. Uttarashada Eczema, skin disease, leprosy, dull pain, 
digestive trouble, palpitation of heart, 
rheumatism, cardiac thrombosis, stomach 
trouble due to gas. 

22. S lira v ana Eczema, skin disease, leprosy, pus 
formation, tuberculosis, rheumatism, boils, 
pleurisy, filarial, poor digestion. 



Chapter 6: Nakshatras 123 

23. Dhanishtha Malaria, filaria, high fever, boils, 
elephantiasis, dry cough, hiccups, leg-injury, 
lameness, H.B.P, insomnia, cardiac 
thrombosis, heart failure, fainting, over- 
heated blood. 

24. Satbhisha Rheumatic heart, H.B.P, palpitation, 
insomnia, amputation, leprosy, eczema, 
constipation, guineas-worm, fracture, 
rheumatism. 

25. Purvabhadra Irregular circulatory system, ulcerated gums, 
swelling feet, enlarged liver, hernia, jaundice, 
abdominal tumour, corns in feet, perspiring 
feet, intestine defect. 

26. Uttarbhadra Drop foot, hernia, dropsy, indigestion, cold 
feet, foot-fracture, constipation, flatulence, 
tuberculosis, rheumatic pains. 

27. Revati Intestinal ulcer, gout in feet, deafness, ear- 
pus, cramps, foot deformities, lassitude, 
nephritis, abdominal disorders. 



Chapter 7 

Planets and their Significations 

Astrology is basically the study of the influence of planets on human 
life. Each planet is said to posses its natural significations. However, 
their significations are subjected to modification by the particular 
zodiacal area through which the planet transits. Therefore, how a 
particular planet behaves for a particular individual depends upon 
its placement in the Zodiac and also its placement in the horoscope. 
To understand this we first need to know the natural significations 
of the planets, with respect to various aspects of human life. 

Sun and its Significations 

Astronomical Data: Sun is a star located close to the Sagittarius 
in Carina spiral arm, called the "Brion Spur". It is believed to 
complete one revolution of our galaxy in 200 million years. It has 
a mean distance of 14,96,00,000kms from Earth. It is nearest 
to the Earth on 3rd January every year when it is 14,71,03,000 
kms from Earth and farthest from Earth on 4lh July when it is 15, 
21,06,000 kms away from Earth. 

Astrological Significations: 

In Astrology Sun is considered to be a planet. It takes one year to 
go round the Ecliptic. It has only direct motion. There is no latitude 
for Sun. It is said to be the soul of the Kala Purusha (the cosmic 
man). It is dry, masculine, positive and fiery. It belongs to Rajasic 
propensity. It rules over the East direction. It is the source of our 



Chapter 7: Planets and their Significations 125 

inspiration, vitality, and the seat of what we project, emanate, 
produce and create. It rules our fame, renown and reputation. It 
symbolizes ego, character, innate tendencies, brilliancy, 
magnificence, splendour, omnipotence, invincibility, 
accomplishment, divinity, leadership, royalty, aristocracy, 
dominance. It is an ideal but wrongly viewed, it represents 
autocracy, despotism, dictatorship, tyranny, vanity, boastfulness, 
pride, arrogance, contempt, haughtiness, either moral or congenital 
blindness. The Sun represents truth, reality, the Absolute, God, 
supreme states of conciousness like nirvana, Samadhi, exposure 
and nakedness in all senses. As a rule Sun types are bom limelights 
and exhibitionists and want to impress at all times. 

It likes chilliness, radish, and its abode is temple i.e. place of 
worship. 

Rulership: 

It mles over the sign Leo. It exalts in Aries; maximum point of 
exaltation is 10 degree Aries. It debilitates in Libra. 

Karaka Significations: 

Sun is considered to be the Karaka of body, head, heart, right 
eye, stomach/abdomen, fire, inflammation, father, honour, status, 
vitality, self-esteem, ego, will power, arrogance, government and 
place of worship. 

Professions: 

Govt. service or service in an organization that provides reasonable 
security. Business financed by father or taken over from father. 
Dealer in cloth, sandle wood, raw silk, gold, medicine, jewellery, 
saffron and copper. Administrators, excavators and discoverers. 
Teaching relating to chemistry or general administration. Jobs in 



126 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

hospitals, asylums. Manufacturers of thick rope. Ambassador to 
foreign countries. 

Vitamins and Minerals: 

Sun mles the vitamins A and D and minerals Magnesium and Iodine. 

Diseases: 

Headaches, baldness, inflammation of liver and gall bladder, heart 
trouble, blood disorders, stomach ailments, eye diseases, fever 
and pains, bone disorders, leprosy, bone cancer, weak immune 
system, fits and gonorrhea. 

Education: 

Medicine, chemistry, alchemy, astrology, geography. 

Metals: 

Gold and copper. 

Gem: Ruby 

Body Parts: 
Heart, Bones, Stomach, Constitution, Blood. 

Colour: 

Orange, Golden, Red. 

Symbol: © 

Taste: Pungent 



Chapter 7: Planets and their Significations 127 

Moon and Its Significations: 

Astronomical Data: 

Moon is the only satellite of the Earth. It completes its one revolution 
round its own orbit and Earth's in 27.32166 Earth's days. It always 
keeps one face to Earth. Its orbit is an ellipse and is inclined about 
5.08 deg to the plane of Earths orbit(Ecliptic). Moon's mean 
distance from Earth is 384,402 kms. 

Astrological Significations: 

Moon for all practical purpose is considered as a planet in 
astrology. It mles over North-West direction. It is feminine, watery, 
and Rajasic. 

Moon rules over the etheric body, the mind, mannerisms, 
idiosyncrasies, likes and dislikes, the apparent and the unconscious. 
It is symbolic of personality, figure, change, ovulation, menstruation. 
The Moon is the seat of desire, panting, longing, craving, lust, 
appetite, consumption, whim and fancy, feelings, sexual and 
material needs. Moon is flirtation, receptivity, dependency. It is 
adaptable and flexible. Viewed negatively it represents unsocial, 
parasitism, mediocrity and fmstration. It cannot be tmsted. 

The Moon is fantacy, myth, fable, legend, dream, illusion, mirage, 
because unlike the Sun which revels in tmth and reality, the Moon 
is incapable of putting its feet on the ground. It has to imagine 
things or hear things or reproduce things and that's why it is a 
bom medium, spiritist, psychic, actor and actress. Like a mother 
it is believer in equality and democracy. Because of its dependence 
upon the Sun for survivaTit can be at times insatiable, unsocial and 
very strange. 



128 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

It likes all cold substances and tender fruits and vegetables. Its 
abode is wells, swimming pools i.e. watery places. 

Rulership: 

It mles over the sign Cancer. It exalts in Taums; maximum point of 
exaltation is 3 degree Taums. It debilitates in Scorpio. 

Karaka Significations: 

Moon is considered to be the Karaka of breasts, mind, mother, 
place of residence, emotions, ovaries, utems, pregnancy, left eye, 
sleep, upper and lower halves of lungs, the sympathetic nerves, 
parenting, masses, subconscious and feelings, all coverings in the 
body like pericardium meninges in the brain, eye socket, lymphatic 
system and synovial and all fluids in the body. 

Profession: 

Related to shipping, water works department, dealer of corals, 
fish, pearls, perfumes, kerosene, petrol, milk, boilers, vegetables, 
fruit grower and supporters. Nurses, cooks, stall managers, 
naturopaths, psychologists, psychiatrists, general merchants. 

Vitamins and Minerals: 

Moon rules the vitamin B-2 called Riboflavin and the minerals 
Potassium and Flourine. 

Diseases: 

Infancy, Insanity, Insomnia, T.B, Pleurisy, dropsy, dyspepsia, 
diarrhea, cholera. Anemia, epilepsy, enlargement of spleen, ovary, 
uterus, menstmal disorders, breast, chest, saliva, hysteria, salivary 
gland, lefteye, lungs, diabetes, appendicitis, and vomiting. 



Chapter 7: Planets and their Significations 129 

Besides psychic problems it causes sleep disorders, lethargy, 
drowsiness, lung problems, mouth problems, neurological 
disorders, digestive complains, blood disorders, frequent cough 
and cold and weakness etc. 

Education: 

Textile, chemical, engineer, psychology, water engineer, or 
hydraulics, music, marketing, violin, veena. 

Metal: Silver 

Body Parts: 

Heart, lungs, mind, blood, left eye, kidney, alimentary canal and 
water in body, lymph, breasts. 

Symbol: D 

Colour: White, Opal, Pearl. 

Taste: Saline 

Mars and Its Significations: 

Astronomical Data: 

Mars is the fourth planet in its distance from earth. It revolves 
around Sun and completes its revolution in 686.9804 mean Earth 
solar days. The eccentricity of its orbit is 0.0934. Its equatorial 
radius is 3393 ± 4 kms and polar radius is 3352 kms. 

Its nearest distance to Earth is 56 million kms and farthest distance 
is almost 400 million kms. Its synodic period is 779.94 earth's 
solar days. 



130 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Astrological Significations: 

Mars is masculine, fiery, and tamasic. It rules over South direction. 

It symbolizes impulsiveness, animosity, combat, will power, 
bravery, determination, drive, initiative, invasion, penetration. It is 
heroism, activity, agitation, excitation, manliness, athletics, sports, 
martial arts, stamina, toughness, and health and vitality. Mars 
accepts no weakness, panic, delay, cowardice and reason. It is 
straightforward. It is reckless, ferocious and impatient. It is the 
seat of burning desires and of strong sexual feelings. It mles over 
the instincts, and the will power and welcome danger and difficulty. 
Mars does not wait and long passively under the stars, but rather 
forces issues and undauntingly goes after its meat kike a jaguar. It 
is violent, aggressive, short-tempered, rude, impudent, curses a 
lot and is anger itself. Mars is also vivacious, lively and pressing 
agent of survival. 

It likes substances of fleshy nature, groundnut, and grains. Its abode 
is fire place. 

Rulership: 

It rales over the signs Aries and Scorpio. It exalts in Capricorn; 
the maximum point of exaltation being 28 degrees Capricorn. It 
debilitates in Cancer. 

Karaka Significations: 

Mars is considered to be the Karaka of courage, inflammation, 
injury, accident, male genitals, blood, bone marrow, rectum, 
prostrate, homeoglobin, the muscles and the motor segment of 
the spine, enemies, disputes, litigation, younger siblings, immovable 
property, kilting, dynamic energy, self affirmation, initiative, and 
violence. 



Chapter 7: Planets and their Significations 131 

Profession: 

Defense personals, chemists and druggists, surgeons, butchers, 
real estate businessman, machinists, dealer of guns, weapons, hair 
dressers, iron and steel, boilers, steam engines, dacoits, murderers, 
executioners,watch makers, gamblers, blacksmiths, athletes, 
mason, and sports person. 

Vitamins and Minerals: 

Mars mles the vitamins B-12folic acid and fatty acids (vitamin F). 
It mles minerals chlorine, cobalt, iron, phosphoms, selenium and 
sodium. 

Diseases: 

Inflammatory diseases, hypertension, blood disorders, brain 
lcvcr,aborlions, miscarriage, smallpox, gall bladder stone, jaundice, 
measles, piles, epilepsy, itching of the skin, bleeding, dry and rough 
skin, accident, fracture of bone, electric shock, injury due to acids, 
prostrate, cough, tumours and abscesses, and surgery. It may cause 
cancer in muscular parts in the body when closely associated with 
Rahu. 

Education: 

Surgery, mechanical and civil engineer, machines, structural design, 
architecture, physics, military services, martial arts. 

Metals: Iron and steel, copper 

Gem: Coral 



132 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Body parts: 

Skull, blood, testicles, marrow, neck, rectum, forehead, digestive 
section, nose, veins, red-corpsell. 

Colour: Red, Scarlet. 

Symbol: <f 

Taste: Bitter 

Mercury and Its Significations 

Astronomical Data: 

Mercury is the closest planet to the Sun. Its mean distance from 
the Sun is 58 million kms. It revolves around the Sun at a velocity 
of 170,000 km per hour. Its nearest distance from earth is 
45,000,000 km. Eccentricity of the orbit is 0.206. It is never seen 
at a distance of more than 28 degrees longitude from the Sun. 
Mercury, like moon, always has its one face to Sun. It is called the 
evening star and the morning star because it can sometimes be 
seen before sunrise or some time after sunset. 

Astrological significations: 

It is effeminate. Earthy and Sattwic. It rales over North direction. 

It signifies intelligence, reasoning, education, learning and teaching, 
information seeker, communication, the meaning and value of ideas. 
It can't stand silence. It believes in versatility, flexibility and mobility. 
It is restless and is the agent of tourism, hitch-hiking, trekking, 
pilgrimage and travel. Mercury is incapable of being alone or sad 
for long. It loves to trade, master the skills of business and 
commerce. It has excellent argumentative and analytical power. 



Chapter 7; Planets and their Significations 133 

Mercury types are difficult to seize and size up. They do not 
possess one face but many faces and this polydimensiona 
characteristic is best found in the writer, journalist, editor, 
newspaper critic, driver and mathematician. However, unlike the 
Moon Mercury's multiple interests are mostly of a mental order 
and not emotional or sexual. 

It represents plantation, brinjals, lady finger, beet root. Its abode 
is play-grounds. 

Rulership: 

It rales over the signs Gemini and Virgo. It exalts in Virgo; the 
maximum point of exaltation being 15 degrees Virgo. It debilitates 
in Pisces. 

Karaka Significations: 

Mercury is considered to be the Karaka of communication, central 
nervous system, intellect, memory, speech, all sense perceptions, 
short journey, education, friends, all tubes in the body like fallopian 
tubes, urethra, trachea; business, trade, commerce, writing and 
journalism. 

Profession: 

Editors and publishers, accountants, mathematicians, analysts, 
travel agents, stenographers, book binding, ambassadors, 
personals in communication department, post and telegraph 
department, finger print experts, railway employee, insurance 
agents, sculptresists. 

Vitamins and Minerals: Mercury rales the vitamin B-l called 
Thiamine. 



134 True Astrology -" Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Diseases: 

Chest, nerves, mental disorders, abortion, neurological disorder, 
defects in speech, stammering, skin diseases, vertigo, leucoderma, 
ear, nose and throat, impotence. 

Mercury causes psychic diseases, insomnia, nervous breakdown, 
loss of memory or speech, deafness, asthma, disorders of intestines, 
dyspepsia etc. and it creates tensions in life, lack of confidence, 
situation of indecisiveness etc. 

Education: 

Mathematics, Engineering, astrology, puranic studies, auditing, 
logic, journalism, advertising, astronomy, public speaking. 

Metals: Bronze 

Gem: Emerald 

Colour: Green, Slate colour. 

Body Parts: 

Nervous system, tongue, arms, skin, thyroid, spinal system, naval. 

Symbol: ? 

Taste: Mixed 



Chapter 7; Planets and their Significations 135 

Venus and Its Significations 

Astronomical Data: 

Venus is the second closest planet in order of distance from the 
Sun. Its orbit is nearly circular and is inclined to the Ecliptic at an 
angle of 3 deg. 39 min. It is never more than 48 degrees away 
from the Sun. It can be seen up to 5 hours before the sunrise and 
5 hours after the sunset (when it is 48 degrees away from Sun). It 
is the nearest planet to Earth. Its sidereal period is 224.7 Earth 
days and synodic period is 583.92 Earth days. One day of Venus 
or time interval between one sun rise to next sun rise equals to 11 
Earth Days. It takes 243.01 days to rotate once round on its axis. 
Venus achieves its brilliance in the evening sky after every 584 
days. 

Astrological Significations: 

Venus is feminine, Rajasic and watery. It rules over South- East 
direction. 

Venus is the epitome of delicacy, softness, tact, diplomacy, love, 
devotion, adoration, fidelity, kindness, sympathy, peace, 
compromise and good will. It believes in brother hood, loves 
fashion, pretty and artistic dresses. Venus adorns itself and also 
decorates house. It knows how to magnetise, fascinate and please 
others. Venus is sensuousness, eroticism, and symbolic of sexual 
relationship (marriage). It is fertility, procreation.lt is cohabitation, 
intimacy, cooperation, partnership,synthesis and affinity. 

Venus is a poet, a self less lover. It looks after dancing, singing, 
acting, ornaments and luxurious items, furniture. On the negative 
side, perhaps, it is in its nature to under go prostitution, incest, and 
homosexuality. It mles over the skin, the flesh, the erogenous zones 
of the body. 



136 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

It represents all exotic vegetables, potatoes, cabbage. Its abode 
is bedroom. 

Rulership: 

It rales over the signs Taurus and Libra. It exalts in Pisces; the 
maximum point of exaltation being 27 degrees Pisces. 

Karaka Significations: 

Venus is considered to be the Karaka of vehicle, romance, sex, 
wife, kidneys, glands, skin, the erogenous zones of the body and 
female genitals; art, poetry, jewelry, thyroid, tongue, venous system 
tissue tone,nutritional functions, beauty, sensuality, left nostril, smell 
and organs of inhalation, fat, milk, and hormonal secretions. 

Profession: 

Poets, stage actors, musicians, jewelers, perfume sellers, dealer 
of gems, silk merchants, confectioneries, sweet makers, and 
dealers in ghee and fat foods. It also signifies profession like that 
of Painters, sculptors, dancers, profession related to textiles, 
cosmetics, veterinary doctors, drivers, dairy and poultry farmers. 
Hotel business. 

Vitamins and Minerals: 

Venus mles the vitamins B-3 called Niacin and Vitamin E. It also 
rales mineral copper. 

Diseases: 

Main diseases of Venus are venereal diseases, eye diseases, 
indigestion, diabetes, urinary diseases, throat trouble, impotency, 
glandular diseases, loss of luster in body, and fits. 



Chapter 7; Planets and their Significations 137 

Venus causes illnesses of the kidneys, womb and genitalia, illnesses 
of the belly, back and navel. It causes all venereal/sexually 
transmitted diseases, priapism, impotence, hernias, and diabetes. 

Venus also rales over the veins and indicates such disorders as 
varicose veins, hemorrhoids, vascular spiders, etc. 

Education: 

Chemistry, electronics, computers, agriculture, dairy farming, 
veterinary, chemical engineer, textile, plastic, naval science, poultry, 
music, foreign literature, logic, grammar, sexology, naphthrology, 
ophthalmology, gynecology. 

Metals: Silver 

Gem: Diamond 

Colour: 

Blue, to some it represents mixture of colours. VTBGYOR, Lemon 
yellow and Pale blue. 

Body Parts: 

Face, vision, semen, urine, body lustre, throat, body water, glands, 
ovaries, chin, productive organ, left ear. 

Taste: Sour 

Symbol: 2i 



138 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Jupiter and Its Significations 

Astronomical Data: 

It is the most massive planet in the solar system and it is fifth in 
order of distance from the Sun. Jupiter is said to possess a magnetic 
field like Earth. It is a source of intense bursts of radio emissions. 
Jupiter has 16 satellites, small and big. Jupiter is self-luminous. Its 
mean distance from Sun is 77,83 million kms. It revolves around 
its own axis very fast and completes one revolution in 9.841 hours. 
Its sidereal period is 11.862 years and eccentricity of the orbit is 
0.0485'. 

Astrological Significations: 

It is masculine, sattwic and is said to represent Ether. Its direction 
is North-East. It is considered to be a planet of expansion, wisdom 
abundance, growth. It must feel big, important and healthy, out of 
a sense of status. It is a firm upholder of the hierarchical system. 
Ceremony, ritual, protocol, pomp, display, demonstrations, parade 
are part of its intimate world. It needs to show of but in order to 
protect, guide and feed. It is a status seeker. Its laughter is roaring 
and hearty. It knows no inhibitions to express its emotions. It is 
symbolic of optimism, felicity, confidence, hope, and success. It 
stresses refinement and elegance. But it has likewise big vices that 
are explicit viz Jupiter's inordinate ambition makes it shoddy, 
exhibitionistic, extravagant, exaggerating, and imperialistic. It eats 
and drinks too much, become fat, obese, silly and too compliant. 
It ruins its failure by becoming too extravagant unable to become 
apart of elite it pretends and thus becomes ridiculous and surrounds 
itself with frivolous friends and cheap looking objects. 



Chapter 7; Planets and their Significations 139 

It represents all native roots and bulbs, pumpkin, plantains. Its 
abode is storeroom, treasury, place where jewelry and money 
are deposited. 

Rulership: 

It rales over the signs Sagittarius and Pisces. It exalts in Cancer; 
the maximum point of exaltation being 5 degrees Cancer. It 
debilitates in Capricorn. 

Karaka Significations: 

Jupiter is considered to be the Karaka of expansion, abundance, 
wisdom, philosophy, religion, politics, diplomacy, big ventures, 
liver, pancreas, management, administration, wealth, and 
prominence in society 

Profession: 

Teachers, priests, advocates, judges, scientists, bankers, 
physicians, philosophers, writers, high ranks in government and 
society, member of parliament or legislature, mayors, yoga teachers. 

Vitamins and Minerals: 

Jupiter mles the vitamins B-6, biotin, cholin, inositol and pangamic 
acid (vitamin b- 15).It mles minerals chromium, manganese and 
zinc. 

Diseases: 

Appendicitis, diabetes, philganatic diseases, anemia, liver 
complaints, eartrouble, spleen problem, dropsy, diseases in thighs. 

Jupite causes lymphatic and circulatory congestion, thrombosis, 
tumors, jaundice and asthma. 



140 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Education: 

Law, medicine, military science, administration, instmctional 
techniques, philosophy, religion, politics, international, law, business 
management, banking, astrology. 

Metals: Gold 

Gem: Yellow Sapphire or Topaz 

Colour: 

Tawny, yellow like molten gold, Violet. 

Body parts: Back, hip, thighs, feet 

Taste: Sweet 

Symbol: ? 

Saturn and Its Significations 

Astronomical Data: 

Saturn is the sixth planet in the order of distance from the Sun. It 
is surrounded by rings and provides the most beautiful sight in the 
solar system. Like Jupiter, it radiates more heat than it receives 
from Sun. Its mean distance from Sun is 142.70 million kms. It 
revolves in its orbit at a velocity of 9.64 kms per second. Its 
eccentricity is 0.056. Its sidereal period is 29.4577 years and 
synodic period is 378.09 Earth days. 



Chapter 7: Planets and their Significations 141 

Astrological Significations: 

It is tamasic, effeminate and airy. It rules over West direction. 

It represents discipline, self-control, restraint, moderation, sacrifice, 
penance, renunciation, patience, austerity, humility, modesty, 
immobility. Knowledge is its main concern. Lacks desire, longings, 
wishes-exactly opposite to Moon. 

It is science, investigation, concentration, contemplation, 
introversion, introspection, transformation. It respects seniority, 
ascendancy, old age, longevity, immortality and classics. It is a 
planet of constriction. It is constmctive, a traditionalist-never a 
liberal. It knows only responsibility, obligations, gratitude. It has 
its feet on the ground, solidly planted and having forsaken 
sentimentalism and passions, its system of work is meticulously 
planned and organized to the minutest details. It is very diligent. It 
distmsts the new and young, it loves the past. Loneliness, suffering, 
pain, diseases, sickness, paralysis, deformity and all the evils of 
the world accompany its sinister ghostliness. It sterilizes and 
provokes frigidity, impotence, vasectomy. It is dogmatism, 
fanaticism, narrow-mindedness, celibacy. It prefers to be alone. 
It has no feelings, knows no laws, cruelty, abuses are nothing to it. 
Fear, apprehensions, despair, anguish envelop its deranged mind. 
Saturn remains a sinner and monster at heart. It eats shit, plays 
with it and puts its hands inside garbage cans. It is unclear and 
filthy. Saturn is patron of scandal, disaster, calamity, doom and 
catastrophe. Saturn undermines every thing. 

It represents bitter gourd, onions, drumstick, betel leaves, tobacco, 
greens, thorny, and poisonous trees. Its abode is prison, dungeon, 
a monastic cell, an ashram or an asylum. 



142 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Rulership: 

It rales over the signs Capricorn and Aquarius. It exalts in Libra; 
the maximum point of exaltation being 20 degrees Libra. It 
debilitates in Aries. 

Karaka Significations: Saturn is considered to be the Karaka 
of death, teeth, sickness, danger, longevity, discomfort, servant, 
subordinate, sorrow, melancholy, joints, bones, gallbladder, 
sigmoid flexure, ligaments, history, self discipline, restraint, atrophy, 
crystallization. 

Profession: 

Farmers, politicians, beggars, servants, pilots, space scientists, 
electronic engineers, police constables, watchmen, jailors, grave 
diggers, dealers in leather, iron and steel, plumbers, labourers in 
mines. 

Vitamins and Minerals: 

Saturn rales the vitamins C, K, PAB A and bioflavonoid (Vitamin 
P). It rales minerals Calcium, fluorine, sulfur and vanadium. 

Diseases: 

Belly ache, windy and phlegmatic complaints, paralysis, 
rheumatism, indigestion, bodily deformity, gastric and stomach 
troubles, gaseous troubles, and teeth problems. 

Saturn causes constant and painful diseases, leg fracture, cancer, 
skin diseases, arthritis, gout, emaciation, rickets, consumption, 
indigestion, dyspepsia, insanity, numbness, windy diseases, 
impotence in men, asthma, retention of urine, intestinal obstmction 
etc. 



Chapter 7; Planets and their Significations 143 

Education: 

Geology, petrochemical engg., refinery techniques, civil engg., 
mining, electronic engg., sanitary engg., labour law, black arts, 
industrial engineer. 

Metals: Iron and steel 

Gem: Blue Sapphire 

Colour: Black, Indigo. 

Body Parts: 

Bones, teeth, nails, hair, subconscious mind. 

Taste: Astringent. 

Symbol: h 

Rahu and Ketu and their Significations: 

Rahu and Ketu being only two points of intersection of Moon's 
orbit and Ecliptic are called shadowy or invisible planets. They 
have no body, shape or mass. They have no life and radiating 
power by themselves. It is, however, an established fact that Rahu 
and Ketu play a significant role in analyzing the nativity of aperson. 
Rahu and Ketu have been termed the Karmic planets of Astrology 
and their depositors have gained the category of karmic controlling 
planets. They don't own any house. Like Ascendant they also 
represent the signs and the stars they are in. i.e. Rahu and Ketu 
represent the planets who are the lords of the signs and the stars 
in which they are in a horoscope. Rahu and Ketu are considered 



144 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

more powerful than the planets they represent. Traditionalists 
believe that nature of Rahu is like that of Saturn and of Ketu tike 
that of Mars. 

General Significations of Rahu: 

Rahu represents distribution, discharge, exaltation, new luster, 
brilliance, richness. It conquers, gain, triumphs, it is a royal planet, 
a solar and a Jupiterian point. To some Rahu symbolises creativity, 
growth, militancy, high power, prestige, honour, renown and 
luminosity at its greatest. Rahu is, according to some, fertilization 
and Ketu is impotence. It also represents jails, fetters, poison, 
thefts, losses and indulgence with sick woman. It is an outcast. 

Karaka Significations: 

Rahu is considered to be the Karaka of fraud, maternal 
grandmother, paternal grandfather, riots, undiagnosable disease, 
gieed, and blowing tmmpet with self-pride, over interest in sexual 
contacts, large organs, perverted sex, respiratory system diseases, 
and addiction to drags. 

Profession: 

Jails, Criminal Courts, Radiologist, Photographers, Space scientist, 
Electricity propellers. 

Diseases: 

Accidents, Heart attacks. Cancer, Paralyses, Fits, Small-pox, and 
the diseases of the planets it represents. 

Rahu causes diseases of phlegm, intestines, skin, nervous system, 
ulcers, blood pressure, heart trouble, psychic disturbances, insanity, 
leprosy, insect bite, and cancer etc. 



Chapter 7: Planets and their Significations 145 

Education: 

Radiology, Photography, Space science and the type of education 
as indicated by the planets it represents. 

Gem: Gomed. 

Symbol: ft 

General Significations of Ketu: 

Ketu represents maternal grandparents, absorption, deception, 
humiliation, disintegration, surrender, fall, and disease at best. It 
symbolizes what is old, ancient, sordid, dark, sinister, and fatal. It 
is impotence, it is vulgar. It represents cunningness, unexpected 
death. 

Karaka Significations: 

Ketu is considered to be the Karaka of morbid growth, ulcers, 
cancer, dehydration, acidity, sudden shortage of fluid in the body, 
secret planning's, criminality, immoral acts, ramormonger, apathy, 
false allegations, forged documents, law, adultery, innovation. 

Profession: 

Represents profession mled by Mars, Snake charmers. 

Diseases: 

Measles, itches, and the diseases of the planets which it represents. 

Ketu causes wounds, injuries, diseases in spine and nervous 
system, consumption, surgery, ulcers, inflammations, fevers, 
intestinal diseases, mental aberration, low blood pressure, bad 
habits, skin diseases etc. 



146 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Education: As per the planets it represents. 

Gem: Cat's eye. / 

Symbol: Rahn - fi; Ketn - U 



Chapter 8: 

Aspects 

Both the Traditional and the Western Astrologers firmly believe 
that each planet as per its position in the Zodiac influences the 
other planets and houses. This is termed as aspect. The approach, 
however, of both is different. Westerns claim to be more scientific 
because they compute the aspects on the basis of specified 
longitudinal positions of planets and house cusps whereas the 
Traditionalists compute the aspects from sign to sign positions of 
the planets and houses. The Traditionalists also believe that even 
signs also aspect other signs in specific ways. Aspects, according 
to both are classified as benefics and malefics. Both believe that 
benefic aspects symbolize progress, harmony and concord, 
whereas malefic aspects denote disharmony and discord. I, am 
however, not able to convince myself of the rationale behind 
the theory of aspects. Behavior of the planet, according to 
me, is individualistic and conditioned by its actual 
longitudinal degree obtained in the Zodiac at the time of 
birth and its placement in the cuspal positions. 

Traditional Theory of Aspects: 

Traditionalists consider the influence of aspects according to the 
following: 

1) Nature of planets as a) Positive or negative 
b) Fiery, Earthy, Airy, or Watery 

c) Rajasic, Tamasic, Sattwic. 



148 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

2) Essential and Accidental dignities. 

3) Functional nature of planets. A planet may be a natural 
benefic or malefic but owing to its lordship of a house / 
houses as per the ascending sign it may change its nature. 
This is called functional nature of planet. 

For example: Saturn in a horoscope if it becomes the lord of the 
4lh and 5th house it becomes a functional benefic planet for that 
nativity. The functional nature of the planet is also considered taking 
into consideration the effect of the lord of the sign in which it is 
placed and also as per the planet who has occupied its sign. This 
is generally called in Traditional Astrology as the Theory of 
Disposition. For example, if Sagittarius sign in a horoscope is 
occupied by Rahu or Saturn or Mars, Jupiter loses its benefic 
nature. Similarly if Jupiter occupies a sign whose lord is placed in 
6th, 8111 or 12th house or is conjoined with the lords of these 
houses, Jupiter is said to lose in its benefic nature. 

Planets and their major aspects are shown below. It may be 
noticed that Mars, Saturn and Jupiter have special aspects. 

Planet House Aspected 

Sun 7 
Moon 7 

Mars 4,7,8 

Mercury 7 

Venus 7 
Jupiter 579 

Saturn 3,7,10 

Rahu 5,7,9 

Ketu 5,7,9 



Chapters: Aspects 149 

It is also believed that Saturn though connected to benefic houses, 
by its aspects, will offer only harmful results. Jupiter though 
connected to harmful houses, by its aspects will offer only good 
and favourable results by its aspects. Mars aspect is always 
considered as malefic. Probably, this might have been in the mind 
of the ancient seers to call them as natural malefic or benefic. The 
special aspects of Mars, Jupiter and Saturn are considered more 
powerful than their seventh house aspect. 

Taking into consideration the above Theory of Aspects, we may 
indicate the effect of a planet on another planet or house through 
aspects as follows: 

Saturn: 

Its aspect on a planet or a house, in general tries to retard and 
delay events signified by that planet or house. Saturn's aspect on 
Venus may cause disappointment, probably sorrow or depressed 
emotion, on Mars, the passionate nature will be affected, on Jupiter 
it may cause misfortune, degradation of social and moral faculties, 
and generally bringing disfavour and discredit. 

Jupiter: 

Its aspect is generally considered as benefic. Since it is a planet of 
expansion and nobility and it tries to influence the planet with its 
own signification to bring about a pleasant and fortunate change in 
the affairspdicatedby the aspected planet /house may be health, 
finance, occupation or social affairs. 

Mars: 

When Mars aspects a planet/ house the active, energetic and 
forceful side of the nature will be manifested. This includes bodily 



150 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

activity and vigour, muscular energy, the blood and its circulation, 
strong desires, passion, positive ness, self-reliance, determination, 
disobedience, pride and strengths of will. Mars aspects may give 
rise to disputes and quarrels, unwise actions, extravagance etc. 

Mercury: 

Mercury's aspect is known to arouse the intelligence and reasoning 
power in the native, infuse writing or publishing instincts, love for 
communication etc. Depending upon its nature in Horoscope it 
will influence the aspected planets / houses signification through 
its own signification. , 

Venus: 

It rales over love, friendship, society, entertainment, is fortunate 
and can bestow much financial and general success. Depending 
upon its nature as per its position in the horoscope, it will influence 
the aspected planets / Houses through its own significations to 
cause the desirable or undesirable effects. 

Sun and Moon: 

One represents the vital force and other is called Mind. The 
influence of Sun and Moon on other planets need special 
consideration. Depending upon their nature and strengths in the 
horoscope they will bring about significant changes in the affairs 
of the aspected planet/house. 

Special Aspects and Their Significations: Some Astrologers 
use the following aspects: 



Chapters: Aspects 151 

Aspect of Exaltation: 

If a planet aspects a planet placed in the sign of exaltation of the 
aspecting planet; or the house where its sign of exaltation rises 
then the planet or the house is said to receive an Aspect of 
Exaltation. It is believed to offer good results. 

Aspect of fall: 

If a planet aspects a planet placed in the sign of Debilitation of the 
aspecting planet; or the house where its sign of debilitation rises 
then the planet or the house is said to receive an Aspect of Fall. It 
is believed to offer bad results. 



Chapter 9 

Behaviour of Planets 

How a planet is going to influence the various aspects of life in the 
nativity of a person is judged in Traditional astrology on the basis 
of the following factors. 

1. Essential & Accidental dignity of the planets. 

2. Planets disposition in a sign/star; and in a house in the chart 
vis-a-vis its houses of lordship & Ascendant. 

3. Shad B ala strength of the planet. 

4. Influence of other planets by way of conjunction & aspects. 

5. The position & strength of its dispositor. 

6. Natural significations of the planet. 

7. Shadvarga Strength. 

There is however, another controversial concept called "Avastha 
of Planet" which depends upon the degrees attained by the planet 
in a sign. Some writers hold that a planet is weakest at the beginning 
& at the end of a sign & strongest at the middle; others believe 
that the planet is strongest at the beginning of the sign. 

Essential Dignities of the Planets: 

The strength of the Planet as per the sign it occupies is called its 
essential dignity. 



Chapter 9: Behaviour of Planets 153 

Own Signs: 

On the basis of the principle of correspondence between the 
natural qualities of planets & the nature of the energy content of 
the signs, the ancients classified the signs in two groups one being 
lead by Sun & the other by Moon as shown below. 

Sign Ruler Sign 
Leo Sun, Moon Cancer 

Virgo Mercury Gemini 

libra Venus Taums 

Scorpio Mars Aries 

Sagittarius Jupiter Pisces 
Capricorn Saturn Aquarius 

In this classification, the Sun's group consists of all positive, electric, 
male signs and the Moon's group consists of female, negative, 
magnetic signs. While Sun & Moon lords over one sign each, 
other planets rale over one positive & one negative sign. 

Rulership of a planet over positive sign indicates its positive qualities 
and its rulership over negative sign highlights its negative qualities. 
For example Mars in Scorpio is said to function as the lord of 
death, of evils, but in Aries is said to be harbinger of divine life on 
the materialistic plane. 

The signs over which a planet rules are called their own signs & 
the planet in these signs is expected to give strong results as per 
the nature of the sign. 

Exaltation Sign: 

Accordingly to the Traditionalists, each planet is observed to exhibit 
its best results when posited in a specific degree of a particular 
sign. That sign is called the sign of Exaltation of the planet. 



154 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Debilitation Sign: 

The sign opposite to the sign of exaltation of the planet is said to 
be its sign of "fall" or debilitation. The planet is assumed to give 
adverse results when debilitated i.e. posited in the debilitation sign. 

The table below indicates the signs of exaltation & debilitation of 
planets. 

Planet Exaltation sign Debilitation sign 
& degrees & degrees 

Sun 10° Aries 10° Libra 

Moon 3° Taums 3° Scorpio 

Mars 28° Capricorn 28° Cancer 
Mercury 15° Virgo 15° Pisces 

Jupiter 5° Cancer 5° Capricorn 

Venus 27° Pisces 27° Virgo 

Saturn 20° Libra 20° Aries 

Detriments: 

The signs opposite to the signs over which the planet has ruler 
ship are called detriments. For example: Tauras& Libra are the 
detriments of the Mars. 

Other Essential' Dignities of Planets 

Planets also show affinity for signs other than their own exaltation 
signs. For example Mercury shows favourable results when posited 
in Libra & Aquarius which are signs of scientific nature & most 
allied to its own nature; Venus joys in fruitfuLmoist signs as Cancer 
& Pisces; Sun & Mars in hot sign Sagittarius; Jupiter in fmitful, 
temperate signs-Cancer, Libra & Aquarius; Saturn delights in 
Libra& Aquarius; Moon in Pisces. 



Chapter 9: Behaviour of Planets 155 

Accidental Dignity of a Planet: 

A planet shows favourable or non-favourable results as per its 
placement in the horoscope in angular, succedent, cadent, b1'1, S111 

house, or in the house of its friend or enemy. This is called 
the Accidental Dignity of a planet. In other words the strength of 
the Planet as per its placement in a house is called its accidental 
dignity. 

From the study of the Essential Dignities of planets, one can observe 
that the planets have their friendship & enmities as follows: 

Saturn is opposed to Sun & Mars. 

Jupiter is opposed to Mercury. 

Venus is opposed to Mars. 

The signs of these planets are severely opposed to each other. 
Similarly, those planets whose houses & exaltations are in the 
same sign are friendly. Thus, 

Saturn is the friend of Venus, being exalted in Libra. 

Jupiter is the friend of Moon, being exalted in Cancer. 

Mars is the friend of Saturn, being exalted in Capricorn. 

Venus is the friend of Jupiter, being exalted in Pisces. 

This may appear to some as contrary to what the Traditionalists 
generally believe. But a deep study of Mars & Saturn will reyeal 
that both possess virtues of fortitude, duty, and self-control. 

Shad Bala 

Planets by virtue of their disposition in a chart is said to acquire six 
types of strengths. This is called Shad Bala of a planet. The six 
types of strength are: 



156 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

1. Sthan Bala or Positional Strength: 

Planets occupying exaltation sign, own sign, mooltrikona 
sign, friends house & own navatnsa are said to be powerful. 
They become powerless if they are in depression, if they 
conjunct malefic planets, or are combust. 

Planetary War: If two or more planets occupy the same 
amsa, i.e. division of a sign, they are said to be in a war. 
The planet occupying the previous star or amsa of another 
planet becomes successful in war. 

2. Dig Bala: 

Aspects made by benefic Planets make the planet powerful 
& those formed by malefic or enemies make it powerless. 

3. Naisargika Bala: 

The natural strength of the planets as per the following order 
is called Naisargika Bala: 

1. Rahu & Ketu 

2. The Sun 

3. The Moon 

4. Venus 

5. Jupiter 

6. Mercury 

7. Mars 

8. Saturn 

4. Chesta Bala: 

The Sun & Moon have Chesta Bala in uttarayana i.e. in 
northern latitude. Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus have Chesta 



Chapter 9: Behaviour of Planets 157 

Bala. when they are retrograde or winner in the planetary 
war. Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus & Saturn possess Chesta 
Bala when they pass through Mercury's house. 

5. Dik Bala or Directional Strength: 

Mercury & Jupiter are powerful in lagna; the Moon & Venus 
in the 4lh house; Saturn in the 7lh and the Sun & the Mars 
in the 10th house. 

6. Kala Bala: 

The Sun, Mercury, Jupiter & Venus are powerful during 
day. The Moon, Saturn & Mars are strong at night. Mercury 
is always strong. Benefics are strong in bright half of a lunar 
month & malefics are strong in the dark half. 

Important Rules: 

There are a number of mles, which the Traditional astrologer follows 
to assertain the behavior of planets. Some of these mles are stated 
below. 

1. Malefic in a house spoils the significations of the living things 
represented by the house but promote the non-living things. 
For example: Mars in 3rd house may provide courage, 
boldness, initiative & confidence to the native to develop 
his personality through the signification of the 3 rd house viz 
writing, communication skills etc. but may be harmful to 
younger co- boms. 

2. A house aspected by its lord becomes strong. 

3. A planet placed in 6'11 or 8111 sign fromits own sign does not 
give favourable results for its house. 

4. The planet's behaviour is modified according to the nature 
of planet who has occupied its sign. 



158 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

5. The lord of the 8* house is considered always-bad except 
for Sun & Moon. 

6. Lords of trines i.e. 5th & 9111 houses, irrespective of their 
nature always, give good results. 

7. Kendra lords cease to be natural benefics or malefic as the 
case may be. 

Shada Varga Strength: 

The Vedic Astrologers constmct charts by dividing the degree of 
the Ascendant and the longitude of each planet by a number and 
then using specific mles, they decide upon the Ascendant position 
& planet position for each chart. These charts are called Varga or 
Divisional Charts. Each chart, according to them, offers a greater 
insight into a specific aspect of native's life. These charts are named 
as follows. The number attached to the letter D indicates the 
division factor. 

Birth Chart (Dl), Hora (D2), Dreshkana (D3), Chaturthamsha 
(D4), Saptamamsha(D7), Navamsha(D9), Dashamsha(DlO), 
Dwadashamsha (D12), Shodhashamsha (D16), Vimshamsha 
(D20), Chaturvimshamsha (D24), Saptavimshamsha (D27), 
Trimshamsha (D30), Khavedamsha (D40), Akshavedamsha 
(D45), Shastiamsha (D60) 

The other use of these Varga charts is to assess the strength of the 
planets. For example if Saturn is in Cancer 9 degree in a horoscope, 
of Capricorn Ascendant, we conclude that the native is mean, 
worthless and devoid of wealth as Saturn is in its detriment, but 
detailed considerations of Varga may show that the 9lh degree of 
Cancer is mled by all benefic as Sign, Hora, Drekhana, Navamsha 
etc. However if Saturn is in 14 degree Cancer, then all these Lords 
of Varga charts are malefics; in which case the person may be 



Chapter 9: Behaviour of Planets 159 

cruel- hearted, despondent, devoid of all noble ideas and 
aspirations and even poor. 

Planets and Signs: 

We never experience the primary and unmodified planetary energy 
because we know that Planets continue to orbit and therefore 
continuously occupy different Zodiacal position. Each Zodiacal 
position is mled by a particular sign the lord of which reacts upon 
the Planet and modifies its nature in accordance with its nature as 
well as the nature of sign. 

Nature of the sign as we have already stated is defined by its 
polarity (male or female), the element (F or E or W or A) it rales 
and the Guna (Rajasic orTamasic or sattavic). Similarly each 
Planets nature is defined by Polarity, Element and Guna it 
represents. We also know that each Planet is a significator (Karaka) 
of some aspects of life. Each Planet also mles over certain vitamins 
and minerals. 

Thus as per the Planet's zodiacal position its nature is modified. 
This modification is reflected by the excess or deficiency of the 
element; production of vitamins and minerals and also change in 
its Guna. Thus we find that each Planet's behaviour is different in 
different zodiacal positions and it causes different results in each 
horoscope. In other words we say that each Planet's behaviour is 
different in different horoscopes. 



Chapter 10 

Vimsottari Dasa 

The Hindu Astrological literature is pregnant with a number of 
Dasa Systems. This provides a huge stage for the Astrologers to 
play around and choose according to their own experiences and 
by their intellectual correspondence with the philosophy behind 
which a Dasa System is based. However, the single most important 
edifice upon which the timing of events in predictive Astrology 
rests is that the execution of an event is the responsibility of Moon 
(Mind). That is no event, may be birth, sickness, accident, divorce, 
joining service, making a journey, a quarrel, marriage, child birth 
etc. or even death takes place in the life of an individual unless 
Moon occupies a particular degree, minutes and seconds in the 
Zodiac which position is co-ruled by those planets which are 
responsible for the execution of the particular event. Vimsottari 
Dasa which is based on the progression of Moon through stars is 
popularly accepted to provide a sound technique for timing events. 

In Vimsottari Dasa, the life span of a human being is taken as 120 
yrs. Dasa periods follow a specific sequence i.e. Ketu, Venus, 
Sun, Moon, Mars, Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn and Mercury. Each planet 
is allotted a different period as indicated below: 



Chapter 10: Vimsottari Dasa 161 

Planet No. of Years 

Ketu 7 

Venus 20 
Sun 6 
Moon 10 
Mars 7 
Rahu 18 
Jupiter 16 
Saturn 19 
Mercury 17 

Many Astrologers in the past have made serious efforts to dig out 
the reasons for the specific planetary sequence and the unequal 
periods allotted to different planets. Though their efforts appear 
to be very genuine yet they are not conclusive. Only conclusion 
one can draw from their studies is that Vimsottari Dasa must have 
been based on very sound principles and it was in use much before 
Prasara, the great Indian Sage. Study of Nadi writers also confirms 
the use of Vimsottari Dasa. In the present day, one can find the 
undercurrent of this Dasa in the system of Progression used by 
the Westerns. 

Calculation of Periods 

In Vimsottari Dasa, the calculation of periods is done with reference 
to Moon's longitude in a particular Nakshatra at the time of Birth. 
We know that in the division of the Zodiac into 27 Nakshatras, 
each Nakshatra is allotted the same space of 13 degrees 20 
minutes. However each Nakshatra is allotted a different planet 
mlership and the numbers of years are also different as stated 
above. It may be pointed out here that though for calculation of 



162 True Astrology-"Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

the periods, we are considering the progression of Moon in Lunar 
Mansions, yet the Dasa for the calculation of the length of a year, 
a month or a day is Solar based. That is a year is said to have 
been completed when Sun completes 360 degrees i.e. in 365.2422 
days from its position at birth. Similarly a month is calculated with 
reference to Sun completing 30 degrees and a day is for 1 degree 
movement of Sun. 

Dasa at Birth 

At the time of Birth Moon will be in a particular sign and in a 
particular star. Dasa at birth corresponds to the Lord of the star. 
For example if a child is bom at a time and date when Moon is 
transiting in Bahrani star whose mler is Venus, we say the child is 
bom in Venus Dasa; sometimes called as Maha Dasa. 

Dasa Balance at Birth 

Total span of a Nakshatra is 13 degrees 20 minutes = 800' 

The birth of a child may take place when Moon is in a particular 
Nakshatra at a position other than its starting point i.e. some portion 
of this total span has already passed. Since Dasa periods are 
used for timing events, we need to have a proper idea of the Dasa 
period at the specific age of the child at which the event will take 
place. Hence we need to calculate the balance period of the Dasa 
at birth. It is done as follows: 

Let X is the number of minutes that have passed in the Nakshatra 
in which Moon is transiting at the time of birth. 

Balance span of Nakshatra will be 800' -X = say Y minutes 

Planet's Period x Y 
Balance period will be =  

800 



Chapter 10: Vimsottari Dasa 163 

Say X = 200' Then Y = 800' - 200' = 600' 

Let the Nakshatra at Birth be ruled by Venus. 

20 
Then Balance Period will be =—x 600 

800 

= 15 yrs. 

Calculation of Sub-periods 

First Sub Period: 

It is called Bhukti. Each Dasa period is divided in 9 parts. Each 
part is called Bhukti. In Vimsottari Dasa the sequence of periods 
and sub-periods is fixed i.e. fromKetu to Mercury as stated earlier. 
However, the First sub-period in any period will be the same as 
the period itself i.e. if the birth Dasa period is of Jupiter, then the 
First sub-period in Jupiter period will be of Jupiter, 2nd that of 
Saturn and so on till the last one will be of Rahu. It may be 
noted, however, the sub-period in the main-period at the 
time of birth will be as per the actual span of the Nakshatra 
that has yet to be progressed by Moon. 

Allotment of Sub periods of planets in any period is proportional 
to the number of years allotted to the planets in Vimsottari Dasa. 

Example: Let us say we want to find the period of the sub-period 
of Jupiter in Jupiter Dasa i.e. we want to calculate the allotment of 
Bhukti period of Jupiter in Jupiter Dasa. It is done as follows: 

16 
Bhukti period of Jupiter =—x 16 = 2 yrs 1 month 18 days. 

120 



164 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

General formula may be stated as: 

A 
Bhuktiperiod = xB 

120 

Where 

A = No of total years allotted to the period lord in 
Vimsottari Dasa. 

B = No of total years allotted to the sub-period or 
Bhukti lord in Vimsottari Dasa. 

Suppose we want to calculate the Bhukti period of Sun in Jupiter 
Dasa, it will be as follows: 

16 
Sun's Bhukti period =—x 6 = 9 months 18 days. 

120 

Calculation of Sub-Sub period or Antara Period 

Each Sub-period or Bhukti is further divided into 9 parts in 
proportion to the number of years allotted to each planet in 
Vimsottari Dasa. These parts are called sub-sub periods or Antara 
Periods. Antaras like Bhukties follow the same order, i.e. first 
Antara of any Bhukti will always be of that Bhukti lord. The general 
formula for calculation of Antaras is as follows: 

Antara Dasa lord yrs x Bhukti lord yrs x Antara lord yrs 
Period =  

120 x120 

For example if we want to calculate Antara period of Moon in the 
Dasa of Jupiter and Bhukti of Sun, it will be as follows: 



Chapter 10: Vimsottari Dasa 165 

16x6x10 
Antara of Moon = yrs = 24 days 

120 x120 

Calculation of Sub-Sub-Sub Period or Sookshma 
Period 

Each Sub-Sub period is further divided into 9 parts according to 
the number of years allotted to the planets in Vimsottari Dasa. 
This is called Sookshma Periods. Calculation of Sookshma period 
is done as follows: 

Sookshma Period of a planet Pi x P2 x P3 x P4 
in a particular Dasa, Bhukti =  yrs 

Antara 120x120x120 

Where PI = Main lord (Maha dasa) period yrs 

P2 = Sub lord (Bhukti) period yrs 

P3 = Sub-Sub lord (Antra) period yrs 

P4 = Sub-Sub-Sub lord (Sookshma) period yrs 

Suppose we want to calculate the Sookshma period of Moon in 
Jupiter Dasa, Sun Bhukti, and Moon Antara. It will be 

16x6x10x10 

= yrs 

120 x 120 x 120 

= 2 days. 



166 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Application of Vimsottari Dasa Periods 

Vimsottari Dasa is representative of the progression of Moon in a 
chart, calculated in a specified technique (explained above). The 
Ascendant and the planetary positions at the time of Birth in the 
chart indicate the quantum and quality of energy apportioned to 
the Native and also how he is going to channelise his energy for 
outward expression in the material world. The planets co-mling 
the Dasa, Bhukti, Antara and Sookshma etc. periods enable the 
Astrologer to make prediction about various aspects of the life of 
the Native taking into consideration the following: 

1. Potential and Promise of the Ascendant: 

It reflects the capacity of the native to enjoy the fruits of the 
present and the past karmas. The strength of the Ascendant 
puts a limiting action on the strength of other houses. That is 
even if the strength of 2nd house is worked out to be very 
strong, yet the native may be able to earn wealth to the limit 
fixed by the Ascendant However, there are various methods 
to determine the strength of the Ascendant. 

2. Potential and the promise of the houses under consideration. 

3. Potential of the planet significater (Karaka) of the aspect 
under consideration. 

4. Potential and promise of Dasa periods: There are various 
methods followed by Astrologers to determine the strength 
of a planet in a particular chart. The Traditionalists mostly 
use the following to calculate planetary strengths. 

a) Dignity of the planet viz. as per exaltation, debilitation, 
own or mooltikona sign; 



Chapter 10: Vimsottari Dasa 167 

b) Accidental dignity i.e. disposition of the planet in the 
chart from the Ascendant, from its own sign; 
placement in friend's sign, combustion, retrogression, 
placement of the planet with respect to the house 
under consideration, placement of the planet with 
respect to Dasa Lord, conjunction, aspects the planet 
receives. 

c) Shad Bala strengths. 

It may be emphasised that each horoscope is 
unique. Each planet in a horoscope has a specific 
role to play. In a little loose language it can be 
said that Sun in A's horoscope is not the same 
Sun as in B's horoscope. Therefore, to say that 
in the period of Rahu in the sub-period of Mars 
the native will lose or gain particular things on 
the basis of their planetary positions in the house 
may be too far fetched fancy and may even 
appear to be contrary to what the native actually 
gains or loses. It is, therefore, suggested that 
each planet's results should be announced based 
on the planet's behavior in the particular chart 



Chapter 11: 

Traditional Concept of Analysing 

Horoscope 

Analysing the Horoscope 

A horoscope is analysed to determine the following. 

1. What the native is destined for? That is what is promised to 
the native for all aspects of human life. 

2. Tuning the specific events. 

This is shown in the following diagram. 

Analysis of The Horoscope 
.  J  

1 
General Study Timing specific event 

1. Physical & mental characteristics, 
health, vitality and vigour, habit Yes Is event No 
of thinking, success or failure in romised'' 
attempts, longevity, general, 
social, financial, administrative bnd 
status. 

2. Money matters, fortune & 
favours, capability to express, 

Assess the 
vision & right eye, voice & 

approximate 
tongue, nose, teeth, cheeks & 

time i.e. 
jaws. D/B/A/S 

3. Communication, writings, 
documents & agreements, coht. on next page 



Chapter 11: Traditional Concept of Analysing Horoscope 169 

courage, fairness, short travel, cont. Iran last page 
accounting, mathematics, telephone, 
journalism, change of residence, 
contracts. 

4. Mother, education, property, 
inheritance, vehicle, domestic 
environment, rare articles. FixD/B/A/S 

5. Progeny, intelligence, sports, game, 
fine arts, drawing, creative pursuit, 
gambling, lottery, shares. 

6. Service, servants, pet animals, loans, 
debts, success, disease. 

7. Marriage, business partners, Confirm by 
socialization, litigation, opponents, transit of 
divorce, reputation & influence in D/B/A/S, 
foreign nations. Sun and Moon 

8. Mode of death, delays, accidents, 
false allegation, unexpected gain/loss, 
unearthed money, dejections, sorrow 
& strife etc. 

9. Fortune, law and justice, father, 
higher education, second marriage, Give 
longjoumey. Juduement 

10. Status and prestige through 
profession, honour, dignity and public 
esteem, name & fame, authority. 

11. Wealth, fortune, influence, society, 
accumulation of money, fulfillment of 
desires, litigation, speculation. End 

12. Loss and impediments, research, 
foreign travel, investments, 
imprisonment, deception, secrecy, 
secret enemies. Fig. 12 



170 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

The principle behind the methodology of analyzing the horoscope 
by the Vedic Astrologers appears to be based on the following 
universal rules. 

1. "As ye sow so shall ye reap?" 

2. If you visit my house, what will you bring forme? 

3. If I visit your house, what will you offer to me? 

4. Stress & strains of group dynamics & alliances. 

Let us explain these mles in the context of analysing the horoscope. 

As ye sow so shall ye reap: or Formation of the Ascendant: 

The birth of an individual is believed to be as a result of his past 
karmas. The record of past karmas is preserved by the planet 
Jupiter & the sign Pisces. Jupiter is called the seed planet of the 
physical plane. The moment of birth for an individual is chosen by 
the supreme intelligence in accordance with his past karmas to fix: 

1. The Ascendant degree, minute & seconds. 

2. The degree, minute & seconds of each cusp 

3. The longitude of each planet. 

For a birth to take place. Sun, the spark of divine fragrance- the 
life force has to reach a particular degree to reflect the spiritual & 
hereditary qualities of the individual; Moon has to reach a particular 
degree to reflect the psyche of the person; & then corresponding 
to these luminaries positions, the Ascendant has to be formed 
under the influence of the Planets controlling hora, tattwa, day, 
etc. to indicate the quantum of energy that has been apportioned 
to the native. It is the degree of the Ascendant, which is the 
keystone of the whole nativity, for in it are, synthesized the whole 
of the multifarious elements of the natal chart. It is unique for 
each individual. 



Chapter 11: Traditional Concept of Analysing Horoscope 171 

The potential of Ascendant fixes the limit above which the native 
can't rise. The strength of all houses is suh-ordinate to the 
strength of the Ascendant. The position of each planet and its 
association with houses at the moment of births indicate how the 
life pattern of the individual will unfold itself in the external world. 

Analyzing a House: 

We need to analyse a house to determine the promise of various 
significations of that house. It is done using the rules 2,3,4 
enunciated above. It is explained below. 

Potential or Strength and Promise of the House: It is indicated 
by the following: 

a) The sign and star or asterism rising on the house. 

b) Planets placed in the house. 

c) Planets Aspecting the house. 

d) Lord of the house and its strength. 

e) Placement of this lord of the house. 

f) Planets conjunct or aspecting the house lord. 

Points a) to f) correspond to principles 1 to 4. Group dynamics & 
alliances may be taken to mean conjunctions, yogas etc. and 
aspects. 

Why Sun and Moon Ascendants- How rational is this 
approach! 

Some of the Vedic Astrologers strongly emphasise, that the analysis 
of the horoscope for any aspect should also be done from the 
Moon and the Sun Ascendants. The Moon and the Sun Ascendants 
mean taking the signs occupied by them as Ascendant. Sun is the 
spark of divine fragrance- the life force, the vitality. It sends forth 



172 True Astrology^- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

the cosmic energy to the surface of Earth, capable of originating 
life. The Moon receives these energy impulses from Sun and 
transforms them into a medium embryo, which later develops into 
the physical body. The moment of birth of an individual is chosen 
by the Supreme Intelligence according to the native's past karmas, 
of immediate past life or remote past lives. The Sun and the Moon 
have, therefore, to occupy a particular position in the Zodiac to 
form the Ascendant under the influence of other planets mling the 
hora, the day, the month, the year. The energy content apportioned 
to the Ascendant is thus dependant on Sun and Moon. The 
Ascendant for example is called deham (the physical vehicle or 
the body) and symbolises the state of health of the native which is 
also dependant upon the strength of Sun and Moon as reflected 
by their Zodiac and house positions. 

Other reason for having Sun and Moon as Ascendant is that Sun 
represents vitality and constitution; and Moon represents as to 
how it functions. Moreover Moon is called the Mind. It is well 
known that "Sound mind has a sound body". 

Another reason, which appears to be more logical, is as per the 
Pre-Natal Epic Theory. According to this theory the position of 
Moon and the Ascendant at the time of epic (conception) 
interchanges at the time of birth. That is the position of the 
Ascendant in the birth chart; in fact reflects the position of Moon 
at the time of epic. 

One can, to some extent, find some logic to study the strength of 
Moon or Sun to determine the state of health of the native, his 
individuality, personality and longevity etc. Studying the state of 
health for example, from Moon or Sun Ascendants does 
not look very rational. Moon and Sun Ascendants will remain 
the same in most of the charts for the natives born on that 
day. Their study cannot be the study of a particular individual. 



Chapter 11: Traditional Concept of Analysing Horoscope 173 

The theory of relative strengths of Ascendants does not equally 
justify. 

Therefore the analysis of the horoscope should be done only 
from the Ascendant. However, the strength of Sun and Moon 
may be taken into consideration to determine the general state of 
health of the native or those matters which bear strong relationship 
to the significations of Sun and Moon. 

Timing Specific Event: 

It is most difficult and intricate portion of Vedic Astrology. 
However, the principle behind the technique used to timing events 
can be stated as follows: 

It may be remembered that an event happens only if it is promised. 
The procedure to check the promise of an aspect of life is explained 
above. Apromised event happens only in a particular Dasa, Bhukti, 
Antara, Sookshama and Prana. Dasa Lord should be related to 
the relevant house to which the event pertains and it should also 
be related to the Karaka for the event. 

A promised event happens in the Dasa, Bhukti, Antara, 
Sookshama, and Prana periods of planets which are responsible 
for causing the event, provided their Transits agree. This statement 
has three things: 

A. Promise. B. Dasa period and C. Transit. 

A. Promise: 

Whether an event is promised or not is assessed from the 
analysis of the house as explained above. 

B. Dasa periods: 

What is meant by Dasa periods has been already explained 
in the chapter Vimsottari Dasa. How to select the period 



174 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

for a particular event is a hard nut to crack. The selection of 
the Dasa periods is done keeping in mind that 

i) Dasa period give results of its own significations, of 
the significations of other planets with which it is 
related by conjunction or aspect etc. Similarly the 
Bhukti and other sub periods should be related to 
relevant house and Karaka for the event. 

ii) No Bhukti lord can offer the result of an event which 
the Dasa lord does not promise. Similarly, no Antara 
lord can offer the result of an event which the Bhukti 
lord under the direction of Dasa lord is not promising. 

C. Transit: 

It means the current positions of planets at the time of 
happening of the event. Study of Transit of planets forms an 
integral part of predictive Astrology whether it is so called 
Vedic Astrology or Stellar Astrology or even the Western 
Astrology. The Western Astrologers use primary and 
secondary directions and the progressed chart. In Vedic 
Astrology, there are a number of theories of Transit. Some 
of them are listed below; 

1. Transit of Planets is examined with respect to the 
position of Moon in the Natal chart. Each Planet is 
said to provide benefic result when placed in specific 
house position from Moon. However these auspicious 
results are obstmcted under certain conditions i.e. if 
another planet is placed in a particular house with 
respect to the planet under consideration.This is 
called vedha point. This is shown blow: 



Chapter 11: Traditional Concept of Analysing Horoscope 175 

Benefic and Malefic Places 

Sun 

Auspicious transit places 3 6 10 11 
Corresponding Vedha Points 9 12 4 5 

Moon 

Auspicious transit places 1 3 6 7 10 11 
Corresponding Vedha Points 5 9 12 2 4 8 

Mars 

Auspicious transit places 3 6 11 
Corresponding Vedha Points 12 9 5 

Mercury 

Auspicious transit places 2 4 6 8 10 11 
Corresponding Vedha Points 5 3 9 1 8 12 

Jupiter 

Auspicious transit places 2 5 7 9 11 
Corresponding Vedha Points 12 4 3 10 8 

Venus 

Auspicious transit places 123 4 589 11 12 
Corresponding Vedha Points 87 1 10 9 511 63 

Saturn 

Auspicious transit places 3 6 11 
Corresponding Vedha Points 12 9 5 



176 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

2. As per Brihat Prashar Hora Shastra and Phal 
Deepika, Transit of Planets is also seen from the Natal 
Ascendant. The benefic position of planets in transit 
from the Natal (Rashi chart) Ascendant is shown 
below: 

Benefic places from the Natal Ascendant 

Planet Benefic places from the Natal 
Ascendant 

Sun 3,4,6,10,11,12 

Moon 3,6,10,11 

Mars 1,3,6, 10, 11 
Mercury 1,2,4,6,8,10,11 

Jupiter 1,2,4,5,6,9,10,11 

Venus 1,2,3,4,5,8,9,11 

Saturn 1,3,4, 6, 10,11 

3. Transit is also studied with respect to Janam 
Nakshatra i.e. the Nakshatra occupied by Moon at 
birth. Transit over the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th and 9th 

Nakshatras are said to give good results. The transit 
over 3rd, S1'1 and 7'h gives bad results while Janam 
Nakshatra gives neutral result. 

4. Transit of planets is taken as per their natural strength 
as obtained due to their current longitude i.e. in a 
sign and in the house in the horoscope. 



Chapter 11: Traditional Concept of Analysing Horoscope 177 

5. Ashtakaverga Theory: It is basically a theory to study 
the behaviour of each planet with respect to all other 
planets (Excluding Rahu and Ketu) and Ascendant. 
Since there are 7 planets and an Ascendant, there 
are in all 8 positions. For each planet, a table is 
prepared for benefic and malefic points which it 
contributes to each sign. Then a consolidated table is 
prepared for each sign. If a planet Transits in a sign 
which has more benefic points, it offers good result. 

6. Invariably, the Astrologers consider the Transit of 
Jupiter and Saturn as per their current positions with 
respect to the primary house for all events, whether 
these planets form part of Dasa periods or not. 



Chapter 12: 

Analysing the Ascendant 

The Ascendant stands for one's Individuality, Personality, 
Temperament, Physical structure, State of health. Longevity, name 
and fame, virtues, capacity to face struggles of life, direction and 
aspects of life in which the native will channelise his energies; 
proneness to accidents or untoward happenings. Ascendant, in 
other words, reflects the quality and quantum of energy 
apportioned to the Native according to which he executes the 
Karma or bears the fruits of the Karma. Planets play the role of 
actors according to the script written by The Supreme Intelligence 
and under the direction of the Divinity within him. The innate quality 
of these actors i.e. Planets is defined by their sign positions and 
the nature of their role is as per their house position. Study of the 
Ascendant, therefore, is the study of the whole Horoscope in 
brevity. 

Methodology to Analyse Ascendant 

The Ascendant like any other house is analysed by studying the 
following: 

1. The Sign and Star rising on the Ascendant: Any Sign can 
appear on the Ascendant. The general form of the horoscope 
will be as follows: 



Chapter 12: Analysing the Ascendant 179 

Angular Houses Succedent Houses Cadent Houses 

Cardinal Signs Fixed Signs Mutable Signs 

Fixed Signs Mutable Signs Cardinal Signs 

Mutable Signs Cardinal Signs Fixed Signs 

2. Planets placed in the Ascendant. 

3. Planets Aspecting the Ascendant. 

4. Ascendant Lord, and its strength i.e. essential and accidental 
dignities, Shadabala strength and Shadvarga strengths etc. 

Signification of the Ascendant has, therefore, to be studied as per 
the correspondence between the sign appearing on the Ascendant 
and the Nature of the Ist House. The 1st House is Positive, Fiery 
and Rajasic. It has to be. The incarnated soul in the form of the 
human being has to move forward to externalize his innate energies. 

Analysing Aries Ascendant: 

1. Rising Sign Analysis: 

Aries is positive, fiery and Rajasic and as such there is a 
perfect correspondence between the nature of the rising 
sign and the nature of the house. This results in the 
enhancement of the principles of Positivity, Fiery and Rajasic. 
The Native of Aries Ascendant, in general, will love to carry 
out his outward actions with courage, boldness, optimism, 
dare but will have the delusion of individuality, or self- 
centeredness, because Aries have the co-ruler ship of Sun 
who exalts here. It may give rise to faults as egotism, 
arrogance etc. 



180 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

If Aries rises on the Ascendant, the 2nd House -The House 
of family, wealth, speech, death etc. will rise in Taums, which 
is Negative, Earthy and Tamasic sign ruled by Venus and 
Moon exalts here. The nature of the sign and its lordship by 
Venus does not correspond well with Mars and Sun, thus 
the Arians are said to experience problem in expression, 
family relations etc. Since the 7lh House is also ruled by 
Venus and Saturn exalts there; both of whom do not have 
natural correspondence or affinity with Mars and Sun, the 
Arians will have problems with opposite sex or others i.e. 
Partners, Spouse. Mars and Sun loves freedom but Saturn 
puts restrictions. 

Mars rules eighth House, which is also the ruler of the 
Ascendant. Moon gets its debilitation here. The Maraka 
houses 2 and 7 are ruled by Venus and Bhadhak Sthana by 
Saturn. All these indicate not much longevity forthe Arians. 
And Mars ruler ship of the 8111 House indicates sudden death. 

Saturn gets debilitation in Aries. Therefore though outwardly 
Arians (because of Sun's and Mars correspondence) look 
busy and involved in many activities, but inwardly they can 
be lonely, frustrated, depressed and forlorn. 

Third House will rise in Gemini - the sign of Cosmic 
Distinctiveness, ruled by Mercury - a planet of bipolar 
polarity. Mercury indicates indecisiveness - "To be or not 
to be". Arians, therefore, at best will be able to take 
impulsive decisions. 

Sixth house, the house of Sickness, is ruled by Mercury 
and Virgo, the negative. Earthy and Sattwic sign rises on 
the 6111 cusp. Arians, therefore, in general are liable to suffer 
from the diseases that pertain to brain, intestines, high fever, 
colic, paralysis, inflammatory diseases. 



Chapter 12: Analysing the Ascendant 181 

Tenth House is the House of Name and fame, honour, 
awards and occupation. It is the Target set for the soul in a 
specific birth. Saturn, the Planet of restrain, discipline, 
contemplation and the Sign Capricorn, being Negative and 
Earthy, is methodic, cautious, practical but also Rajasic. All 
these provide a check on the Fiery and Positive elements 
of the Arians. Mars, rightly exalts here. Arians will love to 
develop their professional activities more pragmatically; they 
will look forward to achieve new things cautiously and will 
have to put hard labour. 

Jupiter mles Ninth and Twelfth Houses. This provides the 
Arians opportunities for spiritual attainments, higher learning 
and carry out research activities to discover the unknown. 

Fourth House, the House of domesticity, is mled by Moon 
but Mars gets its debilitation here. This points out to the 
fact that Arians will find the house environment in turmoil. 

This is how we should analyse the Ascendant characteristics 
as per the rising sign. But we know, there are different stars 
in the same sign, the characteristics of which are different. 
Therefore, we can more specifically list out the general 
characteristics of the native if we take into consideration 
the rising star at the Ascendant. In case of Aries, the rising 
star can be Ashwini, Bhami and the 1st Pada of Kritika. 

Ashwini: 

Ruled by Ketu, rising indicates a carefree disposition, very 
intelligent, quiet successful, sound financial status, and ability to 
achieve success. 



182 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Bharni: 

Ruled by Venus, rising indicates all sorts of problems to the native 
because of others zealous, resentful and antagonistic attitude. The 
person's moral is not above reproach. 

Kritika: 

Ruled by Sun, rising indicates a proud, dignified and honorable 
person. He will be ambitious, eager for power, and possesses the 
ability to achieve his desires. He has an innate sense of the 
importance of his destiny. 

2. Influence of Planets in Ascendant-Aries: 

A) Sun in Aries Ascendant: 

Let us consider how Sun in Aries will influence the 
significations of the Ascendant viz the native's 
individuality, personality, temperament, health, 
longevity, name and fame etc. This can be analysed 
as per the following steps. 

1. Sun's own signification of self-centeredness, outward 
expression, activity, enthusiasm is enhanced in Aries. 
As such it will influence the native's physical and 
mental characteristics, mode of expression, self- 
assertion, ambition with positivity. This may however; 
result in excess of fire element which may show into 
the native's becoming egoistic arrogant, proud, 
profligate tyrannical. The native may suffer health 
hazard like magnetics, cerebral hemorrhage, stroke, 
fainting, and headaches. 

2. Sun as lord of Leo, the positive, fiery and fixed sign 
and of fifth house, the house of intellect, creativity, 
arts and culture, sports etc. will influence the 
signification of the 1st house with the principle of 



Chapter 12: Analysing the Ascendant 183 

positivity, royal grandeur, but being the lord of the 
fixed sign will make the native more pragmatic, 
authoritative. The native may achieve name and fame 
as a sports person or as an artist. The native will 
possess sharp intellect. 

3, The quantum of influence of Sun on the Ascendant, 
however, will be limited by the strengths of the lord 
of Ascendant, If Mars, mler of Aries is in debilitation 
or afflicted by malefic, then this will reduce the effect 
of Sun on the Ascendant. If Mars itself is exalted, it 
will make the native extremely bold, a dare devil, but 
equally very arrogant. This principle is based on the 
analogy that you can receive only as per your own 
capacity. 

4. The influence of Sun on the Ascendant will also be 
conditioned by the planets placed in his own house 
and the planets that aspect his house. Let Jupiter, the 
lord of 9th and 12^ house occupies Leo, the house 
of Sun. It will affect the influence of Sun in the first 
house as follows. 

a) Being a natural benefic and a planet of 
expansion, it will enable Sun to impart more of 
magnanimity, generosity, and positive 
characteristics to the native. 

b) Being lord of the 12th house, Jupiter will spoil 
the significations of the 5* house through which 
Sun has to influence the significations of the 
first house. This may limit the achievement of 
the native in the field of arts & culture or sports 
activities, or the native may develop interest in 
gambling etc. 



184 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

c) Jupiter's aspect on Sun from the S1'1 house may 
force Sun to impart diseases of blood cells, 
heart, liver etc, to the native. 

Let us consider the case of Saturn in Leo. Saturn, a 
natural malefic and a planet of constriction but 
calculative and pragmatic will control the assertion, 
optimism and activity of native through Sun. Being 
lord of 10 and 11, it may enable the native through 
Sun to achieve name and fame in the field of sports, 
art and culture but with hard labour, patience, and 
perseverance and may be even by manipulation or 
by unfair means. 

5. Sun in the first house will aspect the 7lh house- the 
house of relationships and in general, may cause for 
the native's disturbed relationship with spouse or 
partner. 

B) Venus in Aries Ascendant: 

Venus, planet of beauty, compromise-having 
sympathy with the emotional and psychic nature finds 
itself in a very uncomfortable position in Aries. Being 
lord of maraka sthanas, it becomes a death-inflicting 
planet. This is an inharmonious relationship. The 
person is likely to involve in sexual intrigues, may 
squander his money (lord of 2 in detriment), and bring 
disgrace to his family. Venus will impel the native to 
involve in luxurious living and sexual pleasures. It will, 
however, being the lord of a fixed and an airy sign, 
and having the mler ship over a fixed and an angular 
house will impart in the native the virtue of 
pragmatism, and intellectual approach. Venus will give 
the native an attractive physical form and artistic 



Chapter 12: Analysing the Ascendant 185 

sensitivity. Influence of Venus on Ascendant will, 
however, be conditioned by the planets placed in 2nd 

and 7lh houses over which Venus has the lordship 
and also the planets which aspect these houses. 

Q Mercury in Aries Ascendant: 

Mercury signifies intelligence, reasoning, it is restless, 
loves hitch-hiking, it is symbolic of versatility. Mercury 
for Aries ascendant is lord of 3rd and 6lh house. It 
will, therefore, as lord of 3rd house in ascendant will 
enhance the native's personal characteristics like 
initiative, self-assertion, and confidence to take quick 
decisions, make him more argumentative, and enable 
him to acquire memory power. But Mercury being 
lord of b1'1 placed in S111 house from its own house 
calls for difficulties for the native in education, and 
health. Mercury controls the earth element and all 
the three humours. This may give rise to complicated 
health problems related to brain, and nerves. Mercury 
from Ascendant will aspect the 7111 house may show 
up as to get a partner of crooked mind or whose 
morality may not be above board. In addition to 
above. Mercury's influence will be modified by the 
planets placed in 3rd or 6th house and also those who 
aspect these houses. 

D) Saturn in Aries Ascendant: 

Saturn gets its debilitation in Aries. It is a planet, which 
is symbolic of pain; sorrow, dogmatism, melancholia 
and all the evils of the world accompany its sinister 
ghostliness when in Aries. The native, therefore, feels 
depressed, fmstrated and gets engaged in deceitful, 
mean and sordid acts. Saturn being the lord of the 



186 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

10th and 11 * house will force the native to achieve 
status through manipulation and unfair means. He may 
keep questionable company and may be dishonored. 
From Ascendant Saturn aspects the 3rd, 7th and lO111 

house. The native will, therefore, have problems with 
his younger co-bom or suffer diseases ruled by the 
third house. Similarly Saturn's aspect on 7lh house 
spoils his public image, relations with the spouse, 
cause diseases of the 7th house, and involves the 
native in sexual intrigues. Aspect on 10th house, as 
stated above, will cause for problems in professional 
activities but it being Saturn's own house, the native 
will surmount the problems but by unfair means and 
lot of perseverance. Influence of Saturn on Ascendant 
will however stand to modifications due to the planets 
placed in 10th and 11th houses and also the planets 
Aspecting these houses. 

E) Jupiter in Aries Ascendant: 

The characteristics of Jupiter have perfect 
correspondence with the characteristics of the first 
house except for the fact that it is Sattwic whereas 
the Ascendant is Rajasic. Jupiter in the Aries 
Ascendant will make the native generous, graceful 
appearance, good-nature, successful in business, 
ratherproud, firm, faithful and consistent Jupiter being 
lord of 9th and 12th house will infuse in the native 
love for spiritual attainment and do research to 
discover the unknown. However Jupiter's aspect on 
5111 and the 7lh house may cause for multiple romantic 
relationships. Jupiter in Aries reinforces the native's 
inclination due to Mars and Sun to think of dignified 
profession like a judge in the court of law or a dignified 



Chapter 12: Analysing the Ascendant 187 

position in Defense department. The net influence of 
Jupiter on the Ascendant will depend upon the planets 
positioned in the 9th and I 2lh house and also the 
planets that aspect the 9th and 12th house. 

F) Moon in Aries Ascendant: 

Moon rules over our etheric body and symbolizes 
for all our longings, feelings, and sexual and material 
needs. It is adaptable and flexible. But Aries is not a 
very happy ground for Moon. It may provide him a 
good complexion, round face but will make the native 
restless, inconsistent in his approach. Moon in this 
position may indicate good relation with mother and 
the native may possess lands and property. However 
Moon's aspect on the 7th house will enhance his 
longing for sexual relationships. Planets in 4111 house 
or the planets Aspecting 4111 house will modify Moon's 
influence on the ascendant. 

G) Mars in Aries Ascendant: 

For Mars it a very harmonious placement. It provides 
the native courage, boldness, freedom, and 
independence of action. It makes the native fond of 
competition and struggle. The native will be able to 
express his best in the world and carve a name for 
himself in society. It provides the native not only 
strong constitution, high confidence and courageous 
disposition with an urge to explore (lord of 8 in 1), 
but also makes the native more stubborn, tyrannical 
in approach, quarrelsome and prone to blood 
diseases and prone to accident. Mars aspect over 
the 4"' is not good for his mother and on V111 not 
good for the spouse. 



188 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

The native no doubt, will be known for his leadership 
but seldom lives for long and meet a sudden death. 

3. Influence of Planets Aspecting Ascendant: 

Planets influence on a house depends on the following. 

1) Natural significations of the planet. 

2) Modified signification of the planet as per its Sign 
positions in the horoscope and also taking the 
influence of aspects 

3) Planet drives the signification of the aspected house 
through the significations of the houses of its lordship 
and the house, which it occupies in the horoscope. 

Let us assume Saturn is placed in the 4lh house in Cancer 
from where it will aspect the Ascendant. It will make the 
native depraved and obscene, dull and dejected may cause 
for all sorts of delays and disappointments, regarding 
acquisition of property. 

4. Influence of placement of Ascendant lord in houses: 

a) Mars in Second House: Mars placement in Taums, 
which rises, as the 2nd house is inharmonious 
relationship. The native is always busy in making 
money but loses wealth instead of increasing it. 
However, Mars being lord of S111 house also, the 
native gains from legacies, unearned income. From 
second house Mars aspect 5th, S111 and 9"' house 
and the native is deprived of the comforts of the family, 
and his own fate. And 9111 house being 8th to 2nd 

indicates that the native have to face financial crisis, 
may be due to the extra marital relationships, or for 
higher studies or on his father's wealth & status, or 
on long journeys. 



Chapter 12: Analysing the Ascendant 189 

b) Mars in 3rd House: Gemini, the sign rising on the 
3rd cusp is airy and Sattwic. When Mars is placed 
here, it gives direction to the native's life. 3 rd house is 
the house of courage, confidence. Lagan lord in this 
house makes the native a dare-devil, self reliant. From 
here Mars aspects 6,9 and 10th houses. Thus with 
his own efforts the native obtains professional 
excellence, may develop contacts with unknown 
persons, may deal in export. 

c) Mars in 4th House - Cancer: Mars placement in a 
watery and negative sign is not harmonious. It may 
cause for ill affects on mother's health and longevity. 
Being lord of 8111 house, the native may gain valuable 
assets, property through inheritance, but cause for 
troubled relations with mother. Its aspect on 7th house 
from here indicates that the native is liable to get into 
problem due to his sexual relationships. Mars aspect 
on 10th and 11th may provide the native a sudden 
rise in his profession but he becomes extravagant 
also. 

d) Mars in 5th House -Leo: Mars finds in Leo a very 
friendly house. Mars here will arouse native's interests 
in sports, in technology, nuclear power etc. His 
placement here, however, is not considered to good 
for Progeny. His aspect on S111, 11111 and 12th house 
cause for the native's committing to unsocial acts, 
rapes, secret activities etc. 

e) Mars in 6lh House - Virgo: Sixth house is the house 
of difficulties, oppositions, litigations, debts and 
sickness. Lagan lord Mars placement in this house is 



190 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

indicative of the native's subjecting himself to diseases, 
oppositions, litigations, accidents (also lord of 8th 

house), on account of his ruthless ambition & self- 
assertion. But Virgo makes him judicious, 
discriminative, and pragmatic under the impact of 
Virgo's Guna. The native invariably comes out 
successful against all confrontations. Mars placement 
in the Sixth house may also force the native to make 
abode in far off places because of its aspect on 9"' 
and 12th house. 

f) Mars in 7th House - Libra: It is the house of social 
relationships and spouse. Mars placement in Libra, 
a positive, airy and Rajasic sign provides him the 
impetuous to involve him more and more in sexual 
relationships and thereby spoil bis spouse's peace of 
mind, health and even longevity. From here Mars 
aspects lO111, 1st and 2nd house which indicates that 
the native through his own initiative, courage and 
boldness will attain professional and financial status. 

g) Mars in 8th House - Scorpio: More than any 
house, the study of the 8th house is most paradoxical.lt 
is a house of unexpected gains or losses; longevity or 
death; a house which puts an end to higher studies 
and yet it is a store house of mystical and occult 
knowledge. What the lagan lord placed in 8111 house 
will get? Life or Death; gain of wealth or loss of 
wealth; unearth hidden treasures of knowledge, or 
face impediments in higher study. Let us see what 
Mars gets as lord of Aries and also as lord of Scorpio, 
the 8th house when he is in S1'1 house. Scorpio is 
known to be a violent sign; it is negative, watery and 
fixed. Mars here, though in his own house, yet finds 



Chapter 12: Analysing the Ascendant 191 

the environment charged with the principles of 
negativity, fixidity and watery. He can, therefore, at 
best display his negative qualities. Negative in the 
sense that they are contrary to what for he is known 
to be as lord of Aries. His outward expressions, self- 
assertion, enthusiasm, are put to a check and he 
displays more of pragmatism, love for the old, mystical 
knowledge, rather than love for the future. His 
activities are more emotional than logical. He may 
get unexpected wealth; attain knowledge of occult 
sciences; gain through legacies. He also gains in 
longevity but his death will be sudden. 

h) Mars in 9th House - Sagittarius: Sagittarius being 
a positive and fiery sign provides impetuous to Mars 
to make long journeys, jump into spiritual 
exploration, to take up higher studies and then acquire 
the status of a learned and Wiseman. Mars aspect's 
on 4ai house, 3 rd house and the 12th house indicate 
that he will have to sacrifice his personal conveniences 
to achieve success in his higher learning. This also 
indicates that native may settle abroad. 

i) Mars in 10th House - Capricorn: Capricorn is a 
negative and Earthy sign mled by Saturn and strangely 
Mars exalts here. Tenth House is a Rajasic house 
and the house where the incarnated soul is to achieve 
the Target set for the Native. Mars under the 
Satumian's influence of discipline, contemplation, 
pragmatism has to labour hard to achieve excellence 
in profession. Mars in 10th house makes the native 
to display his leadership quality by reaching a dignified 
position in his profession. 



192 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

j) Mars in 11* House - Aquarius: Aquarius being a 
positive sign but ruled by Saturn - the planet of 
restraint and caution. Mars here is active but 
calculative. His aspect on 6th house indicates that by 
his efforts he will create his enemies and thus social 
hostility against him will be present. More over being 
Ascendant lord. Mars getting itself associated with 
the house of sickness will cause health problems, 
which may even result in some surgery(Lord of 8111 

also). Mars placement in 11thhouse is good for his 
professional career. 

k) Mars in 12* House - Pisces: Mars in Pisces feels 
restless in body and soul; thinks the pleasures of life 
as wasted. May seek solace in foreign land. 12111 

house being S111 to 5th is not good for progeny; and 
6th to 7th house indicates deficiency in sex 
performance. Mars aspects on llh house further 
heighten this aspect which may cause for the spouse's 
dissatisfaction or separation. 

Art of Synthesis: 

If more than one planet is placed in the Ascendant or more than 
one planet aspects the Ascendant, each planet will influence the 
significations of the Ascendant in its own particular way. The 
common characteristics influenced by all will get prominence. 
However during the Dasa periods of a planet, its influence will be 
more powerful than others. 

Analysing Libra Ascendant 

General characteristics of the Native: Libra is positive, airy and 
sattwic. Saturn exalts here. Sun gets its debilitation and Mars finds 



Chapter 12: Analysing the Ascendant 193 

it as its determent. Being Positive, Airy and Sattwic, the native's 
outward expression, activity will be through lawful means and his 
approach will be more intellectual, discrrrainative. Debilitation of 
Sun and exaltation of Saturn in this sign reflects that the native will 
be subjective to contradictory thoughts and actions. Sun loves 
action and Saturn stability, contemplation. Mars finding it as its 
detriment cause for disturbed relationship with spouse and family 
members because Mars rales over 2nd and 7ai houses. This also 
indicates sexual perversion, emotional instability and disorganized 
approach to life. He may develop friendship with well placed 
persons because Sun mles the 11thhouse. Sun's debilitation and 
Mars detriment may cause for diseases relating to kidneys, urinary 
tract infection, left arm, left ear etc. Saturn rules the 4ai and the 
5th house and as it gets its exaltation in this sign, the native may 
like to develop his personality through the significations of those 
houses. He will thus have a strong desire for artistic achievement 
but does not have the vitality and stamina to actualize it. 

Libra rising provides the native attractive appearance, long face, 
lean and thin body because Venus mles the sign and Saturn exalts 
here. He will get easily irritated, socially unbalanced and extravagant 
due to the negative influence of Sun and Mars who rale 2nd, V111 

and 11111 houses. 

Since Saturn rules the 4th house and Mercury the Karka of 
Education rales the 9lh and 12th house, the native may achieve 
excellence in his educational pursuits because of Saturn's 
methodical and dexterous approach and Mercury's versatility. 

Moon rales the 10th house and it gets exaltation in the 8th house 
mled by lagan lord Venus. The native may love to concentrate his 
professional avtivities in the areas indicated by the planet Moon 
and 8th house mled by Venus viz. milk and food products, 
petrochemicals, professor in chemistry, electronics, fine-arts, 
veterinary surgeon etc. 



194 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Moon's exaltation in 8111 house is indicative of long life. Death may 
be due to failure of functional parts. 

Influence of Planets in Libra Ascendant 

A) Sun: It is the source of inspiration and vitality and finds 
itself debilitated. It will only shape the individual's character 
with predominance of selfishness, self-opinion, and self- 
centemess, insatiable lust for money and personal gain. The 
native will feel frustrated through the loss of his own vitality. 
From here Sun aspects the 7lh house Aries where it gets 
the exaltation. Though debilitated in ascendant, yet this 
position promises the native the opportunities to have sexual 
pleasure. It is another matter that his perversion may cause 
problems in his marital relations. The influence of Sun in 
ascendant, however, stands to modification by the planets 
placed in 11th house (Leo) or expecting 11th house. 

B) Moon: It is said; that Moon's placement contributes to the 
native's personality, intelligence and beauty but provides a 
frail constitution and probability of a phlegm disease. The 
native is amiable in disposition and sweet in social 
interaction. For Libra ascendant. Moon is lord of 10 and 
will enable the native to attain status and honour through his 
profession or government. The native generally does praise 
worthy deeds, and has high ideas in his mind. Gets influence 
in the house of wife. 

C) Mars: In Libra Mars finds itself in a little uncomfortable 
position. Its natural boldness and dash only provides the 
native an insatiable lust and he wastes his wealth to satisfy it 
through illegal activities. The native may lose respect and 
his relationship with his wife stands to be disturbed. Being 
lord of 2nd house, the house of family. Mars is in 12111 to its 



Chapter 12: Analysing the Ascendant 795 

own house. This indicates strained relations with family 
members. 

Contrary to the above analysis, we may say that Mars being 
lord of 2 and 7 will offer the native honour and status through 
his family, wealth and spouse. This would have been the 
case if Mars were not in Libra. Here he finds himself 
incapacitated to cam any status. It can at best make the 
native involved in several intrigues, quarrels and lose 
domestic happiness. Influence of Saturn on Mars can further 
accentrate his negative capabilities. 

D) Mercury: It symbolizes intelligence; reason and versatility 
and being lord of 9 and 12 for Libra ascendant will provide 
the native opportunities to excel in intellectual pursuits and 
research oriented activities, or make him skillful in export 
business. He will however, be extravagant and may face 
financial exercises due to lordship of 9th & 12th house. 
Influence of Jupiter may increase his intellectual capabilities 
but make him also more susceptible to diseases. 

E) Venus: A planet of artistic beauty, delicacy, diplomacy and 
here being in its own house will provide the native a regal 
appearance. He will lead a luxurious life and will attain 
powerful status in society. But being lord of S111 house; it 
may force the native to involve himself in unsocial activities. 
Influence of Jupiter may add to his status but the native may 
suffer from kidney or liver problems. 

F) Jupiter: It is symbolic of confidence, hope, success and a 
status seaker. Being lord of 3 rd and 6th it will provide the 
native the necessary strength and initiative to attain high status 
in society but through hard labour. He will face opposition 
even litigations. His health may suffer due to problems like 



196 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

diabetics, blindness etc. Influence of Mars on Jupiter may 
cause for further health problems 

G) Saturn: In Libra, Saturn the planet of restrain, introspection, 
introversion, humility, and for whom knowledge is its main 
concern gets exaltation. Also being lord of 4lh & S111, Saturn 
bestows honor, power, and high status through the 
significations of the 4lh and 5th house. In spite of all his 
social status, the native suffers loneliness and may have 
unsocial romantic affairs and suffer humiliation and loss of 
prestige at some time, (Saturn being lord of 5th house which 
is 8th to the 10th house-the house of prestige.) 

H) Rahu: Some persons think Rahu in ascendant makes the 
native to indulge in mean or perverse acts and to associate 
with undesirable characters. Others feel that Rahu represents 
the planet who rules the sign in which Rahu is placed. As 
such Rahu should provide, infact, more than what Venus is 
to provide to the native. 

I) Ketu: In general, Ketu enables the native to achieve his 
goals through some secretive devices and his selfishness. 

Note: 

The procedure to analyse the characteristics of an Ascendant and 
its modification by a planet placed in the Ascendant has been 
explained in detail in the above two examples. The following 

Paragraphs only provide the analysis of other Ascendants in brief. 
The effect of planets on each Ascendant can be done as explained 
earlier. 

Characteristics of Taurus Ascendant: 

Taurus is negative, earthy and tamasic sign. It is ruled by Venus 
and Moon exalts here. It operates under the cosmic rule of stability. 



Chapter 12: Analysing the Ascendant 197 

the virtue of which is reliability. With positive potential or benefic 
influences, such people tend to be conciliator and have the delusion 
that corresponds to staticism - the belief that things are best as 
they are and progress, intellectual or material, is unnecessary and 
undesirable. They are adverse to change. With negative potential 
or malefic influences, the person shows rigidity, stubbornness 
tyranny and indecisiveness. The approach of the individual towards 
life will thus be conditioned by the principle of negativity, earthiness, 
andtamasicness. 

Taums people will generally have small thick neck, plump thighs, 
well-built muscular body, broad shoulders and a pleasing face. 
They are usually artistic in nature and amiable by temperament. 
They love peace but may become ferocious if provoked. Taurus 
people are in general laborious, over cautious, pragmatic and 
possess business skill and musical talent. 

Characteristics of Gemini Ascendant: 

Being airy, positive, sattawic, it operates under the law of cosmic 
distinctiveness and inculcates in the native love of detail, virtue of 
knowledge of differences, the principle of appreciating inter- 
relationship. Native's actions originate more in thought than feeling. 
The native tries to blend head and heart through perception, 
foresight and artistic ability. He loves travels, sporting with the 
opposite sex. 

He is flexible and adaptable. His success in life depends upon 
intuitively understanding other people's thoughts and emotions. 

The native is usually tall, lean and thin with beautiful eyes and 
sharp nose. Venus has specified affinity for Gemini ascendant and 
being lord of 12 in 1, provides the native opportunity to earn 
overseas; he will have romantic affairs, love for art and culture. 
But being of dual nature, he will lack consistency. Mars, Sun, 



198 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Jupiter, in general produce adverse results. Saturn occupying 
ascendant may cause family problems and respiratory troubles. 

Characteristics of Cancer Ascendant: 

Being negative and watery sign, it exhibits a very inharmonious 
relationship when it rises in the first house; Cancer ascendant people 
lack the fire and zeal of Arians (Mars gets its debilitation) and 
operate more at the imaginative level. He looks for his success to 
others. There always appears to be an inherent contradiction in 
his approach to life. The native will exhibit a certain amount of 
timidity, reserve and mistmst. The virtues of this sign are economy, 
respectivity and sincerity. As Saturn, the planet of restriction rales 
the 7lh house it calls for all sorts of marital problems; he often 
surrenders himself to the partner either in emotional excitation or 
through some kind of infatuation. Cancer bom is generally shy, 
unable to express bis feeling and thoughts. 

The native is generally of medium height, a thick neck and pleasing 
appearance. 

Characteristics of Leo Ascendant: 

It is mled by royal planet Sun and Leo being positive and fiery 
provides the native self-assertion, courage, enthusiasm, and proud 
disposition. There is naturally an inherent magnificence in real 
greatness. The human virtue is magnanimity. There is suddenness 
in his actions. He loves to lead than to serve. The delusion is 
pretence, or the belief that the outward show constitutes real 
grandeur. This may give rise to faults as vain glory, vulgar 
pretentiousness if the potential is negative or malefic influences 
are there. 

Leo native has a broad face with strong bones, beautiful and 
expressive eyes. He is a sincere friend but as Saturn finds this sign 
as its determinent, to some Leo native appears to be ungrateful 



Chapter 12: Analysing the Ascendant 199 

and a person too self centered & capricious. As Saturn rales the 
6lh and 7111 house, compatibility with the partners becomes difficult 
and the native may suffer from some chronic disease. Mars in 
ascendant helps the native to acquire property, and Sun makes 
the native invincible enduring and victorious over his enemies. Moon 
being lord of 12th in ascendant may cause unbalance of the mind, 
make the native extravagant and may force him to settle abroad. 
Mercury provides him the sharpness of intellect but Venus in 
ascendant may produce contradictions, but the native may become 
manipulative and selfish. 

Characteristics of Virgo Ascendant: 

Virgo is negative, earthy and mutable sign that operates on the 
principle of correspondence and perfection. When it rises at the 
ascendant, it asks the native to strive for perfection through the 
intense activity in the realm of intellect and psychic 
consiousness.There is great sensitivity, self-pity, and versatility. 
The native is capable of interpreting the thoughts of others. He is 
easily frustrated and his passionate nature often leads to serious 
psychological complications. Due to his pragnmatic, cautious and 
intellectual approach, he is well suited for business pursuits. 

Virgo provides the native young appearance, straight nose, quiet 
voice, and a tall slender body. 

Sun in ascendant may make the native secretive. He may desire 
to concentrate his activities at a far off place from house. Moon in 
ascendant is good for wealth. Mercury in Virgo ascendant ushers 
in essentially a soul with matured levels of consciousness. Venus 
in ascendant provides health, amiable disposition. Mars in 
ascendant, being the lord of 8111 house, heralds warning of some 
impending danger but being lord of 3 rd house provides the native 
confidence, boldness and courage to explore and discover new 
theories. Jupiter in Virgo, being lord of the 4111 and 7ai house 



200 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

provides him a happy environment, protection and stability. Saturn's 
presence in ascendant causes the native to feel suffocated, 
miserable and suffer from blood pressure problems and mental 
constrains (lord of 5th & 6'11 house in ascendant). 

Characteristics of Scorpio Ascendant: 

Scorpio is negative, watery and tamasic and is known to be fierce 
and violent sign where the negative aspects of Mars are prominent. 
The native loves to take law into his own hands. His life in general 
tends to be a bag of mixed achievement and frustration. The native 
has profound belief in self-training and self-discipline. If the native 
utilizes his energies properly it could lead him to a tremendous 
unfoldment of psychic powers. Its delusion is that of despotism, 
and from this arises the fault of rebelliousness. Venus ruling the 7th 

and the 12th house signifies secret alliances, secret pangs and 
sufferings. Scorpio being the lord of the 8111 house in the natural 
zodiac indicates native to become drag addict, or involve in unsocial 
activities. The person becomes his own enemy. 

Scorpio provides the native well-proportioned body, stature above 
average, commanding apperance, short and curly hair and good 
personality. Sun in Scorpio ascendant being lord of lO111 may 
enable the person to achieve success in his professional pursuits 
especially as a doctor, a defense personal or a builder. 

Moon in Scorpio ascendant may create insatiable sexual passion 
and the native often indulges in extra marital relationships. 

Mercury being lord of 8th and 11th may in ascendant provide him 
sharp intellect, which may be used to gain from unlawful activities. 
Venus may provide gains from overseas. Mars occupying its own 
house may cause health hazards but provide him enough stamina 
to overcome adversaries. Jupiter in Scorpio ascendant being lord 
of 2 and 5 make the native religious, wealthy and healthy. Saturn 



Chapter 12: Analysing the Ascendant 201 

in Scorpio ascendant may give rise to throat problems and cause 
for disturbance in married life. 

Characteristics of Sagittarius Ascendant: 

Sagittarius the sign of cosmic progress mled by Jupiter, where it 
rises at the ascendant it provides the native enthusism, initiativeness, 
enbiprise, adaptability, unquenchable desire for freedom and 
profound love for knowledge and learning. The native possesses 
open-minded, honest, sympathetic and generous disposition. Mars 
rating the 5th and 12111 house is symbolic of his often reckless, 
extravagant and careless nature. With the negative potential he is 
thoughtless, erratic, rebellious but with the positive potential he is 
philosophical, a lover of law and order, peaceful and more intutive 
than initiative. Due to Sagittarius correspondence of fiery element 
and positivity principle with the ascendant the native may possess 
impulsive and headstrong tendencies and brain & nervous 
disorders. 

Sagittarius rising gives a well -composed body, rather long nose, 
tall stature, bright eyes and charming appearance. 

Sun in ascendant enhances the native's egoistic, tendencies makes 
him foresight and courageous but also arrogant. Moon, though 
lord of 8, in ascendant adds charm to his personality, but make 
him indecisive. He may suffer from phelgm, high cholesterol and 
emption of boils. Venus in ascendant makes the native to earn 
respect in society. Mars in ascendant develops love for sports, 
arts & culture and overseas travel. Saturn in ascendant being lord 
of 2nd and 3 rd enables the native to earn wealth but may detach 
himself from family. Jupiter being the lord of ascendant and 4ai 

house in ascendant makes the native learned. His soul is highly 
developed, his actions are righteous, may be a saint among the 
people. 



202 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Characteristics of Capricorn Ascendant: 

Capricorn is negative and earthy. Saturn rales over it and Mars 
exalts here. It shows a unique combination of courage, boldness, 
and pragmatic approach. It is the sign which when rises in ascendant 
indicates that the native's outward expression will bring name and 
fame but with bold and laborious means. The native is enthusiastic, 
cautious, persevering but prone to melancholia. He is outspoken, 
suspicious, and egoistical. He is revengeful and hard-headed in 
his social relationships. His approach is pragmatic and outlook 
totally materialistic. His yardstick of success is wealth, popularity 
and social status. Mercury being the mler of 9111 house may make 
the native look for spiritual attainment. Moon mling the 7111 house 
further intensifies materialistic tendencies. Venus being the mler of 
5ai and lO111 house indicates that the native will possess artistic 
talents and enjoy the company of dignified people especially if 
Venus is in Ascendant. Saturn rising in the ascendant gives natural 
disposition leading to enlightenment. The native becomes totally 
concerned about the quality of his thinking and how it affects others. 

Characteristics of Aquarius Ascendant: 

Aquarius, a positive, airy and fixed sign rising on the ascendant 
denotes a refined, sympathetic, sincere, aesthetic, persistent, 
reliable but stubborn disposition. He has an imposing personality, 
though he may lack in physical beauty. Turmoil in one's life is 
immensely increased (Saturn mles 12thhouse also) and the native 
becomes mthless in achieving his task. He has no love for traditional 
values. 

Aquarius gives tall, full figure, oval face and often defects in teeth. 

Sun mling the 7th house in ascendant cause for loss of self-respect 
and the native may engage in mean and ignoble profession. He 
behaves in the most atrocious manner. Venus on the other hand 



Chapter 12: Analysing the Ascendant 203 

makes the native attractive but licentious in relationships. Jupiter 
makes the native earn wealth and live a religious life. Saturn in 
Ascendant makes the native powerful and a leader. Mercury 
provides sharp intellect, which the native may use for unsocial 
acts (Mercury lord of 5 and 8). Moon's placement in Ascendant 
being lord of b1'1 may cause health hazards. Mars in ascendant 
being mler of 10thand 3rd house provides the native with boldness 
and courage to achieve status through writing, journalism, and 
military powers but being a natural antagonistic to Saturn may 
cause for mental turmoil and psychological tension. 

Characteristics of Pisces Ascendant: 

Pisces being negative, watery and mutable when it rises in the 
Ascendant only inculcates the characteristics of sociability, 
sentimentality, sympathy, perception, intuition and adaptability. The 
native is restless, anxious and impressionable. He is always torn 
between two different emotions. He is kind and jist, but tends to 
encourage the romantic and sentimental side of nature. He is inclined 
to be secretive and is very receptive. 

Pisces is of short stature, plumpy, muscular and spherical shoulders, 
big and protmding eyes. 

Sun being lord of 6th in Ascendant may make the native suffer 
through his own relations. Moon in Ascendant provides an 
auspicious influence. Mercury in Ascendant gives skills in crafts. 
Venus in Ascendant gets its exaltation and thus provides the Native 
with inner glow. Vitality and maturity and love for opposite sex. 
Mars in Ascendant being lord of 2 and 9 enables the native to 
earn from exports, but may develop extra marital relations. Jupiter 
in Ascendant provides the native regality in appearance; makes 
him exceptionally learned and wise. Saturn in Ascendant introduces 
an element of fmstration. He may show tendencies for spiritual 
attainments but for personal gain only. 



Chapter 13 

Analysing Sixth House -Diseases 

The main significations of the sixth house are: 

Difficulties, enemies, employment and service, separation from 
partner, pet animals, maternal relatives, loans, debts and sickness. 

We will limit our analysis of the sixth house to the aspect of 
Sickness. 

Theories of Diseases and Astrology 

1. Theory of Elements: 

Our body is composed of five elements viz. Fire, Earth, 
Air, Water and Ether (sometimes called Akash). For normal 
health, these elements are in defined proportion called 
equilibrium. Whenever this equilibrium is disturbed due to 
excess or deficiency of an element, the health of a person 
suffers. In other words, we can say the person is subjected 
to disease, the nature of which will be corresponding to the 
nature of element responsible for disturbing the equilibrium. 

When the element earth is disturbed it results in causing 
disease of flesh, skin, joints, and hairs. 

The excited element water brings about disorders in blood, 
urine, perspiration, semen and saliva. 

Disturbance to the element fire upsets lungs, thirst, sleep 
and the general constitution of the body. 



Chapter 13: Analysing Sixth House - Diseases 205 

Disturbance of Air element brings about difficulties in the 
movements of the limbs. 

Loss of equilibrium due to ether causes anger, sexuality, 
fear, and signs of old age. 

In Astrology, each sign, each house and each planet 
corresponds to a particular element. The placement of a 
planet in a sign and in a house in the horoscope indicates 
whether the planet has acquired excess or deficiency in the 
element that it represents. The planets, the signs and the 
house and the element they represent are indicated below: 

Element Planet Sign Houses 
Fire Sun, Mars Aries, Leo, Sagittarius 1,5,9 
Earth Mercury Taums, Virgo, Capricorn 2,6,10 
Air Saturn Gemini, Libra, Aquarius 3,7,11 
Water Venus, Moon Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces 4,8,12 
Ether Jupiter All Signs All Houses 

Nature of diseases will thus be determined by the planet or planets 
causing disturbance in the equilibrium of a particular element. And 
the part of the body where the disease will appear will correspond 
to the house which receives the reaction of the planet or planets 
causing the disturbance in the equilibrium. 

2. The Three Humour Theory: 

Our body is composed of three humours called vata (Wind), 
Pita (Bile) and Kapha (Phlegm). For normal health, these 
humours have to be in a particular state of equilibrium. Any 
Excess or deficiency of a humour causes disease 
corresponding to the nature of the humour disturbing the 
equilibrium. These humours are spread out in the entire body, 
however they have specific region where the influence is 
more prominent. 



206 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Vata has a role below naval. 

Pita rules the portion between the heart and the naval. 

Kapha reigns the breasts and the lungs. 

Corresponding to this theory of Three Humours, we know in 
astrology that planets, signs and houses are divided under the law 
of mode of action or gunas as Rajasic, Tamasic, and Sattwic. The 
planets and the nature of humour they control are indicated below: 

Humour Controlling Planets 

Vata (Wind) Moon, Mercury, Venus, Saturn 

Pita (Bile) Sun, Mars, (Sat, Jupiter, Mercury) 
Kapha (phelgm) Jupiter, (Moon, Mercury, Venus, Sun) 

Nature of the disease and the parts of the body affected will be 
indicated by the planets and the houses they affect while causing 
disturbance in any humour. Planets shown in brackets are 
secondary planets to cause diseases. 

Traditional Concept of Analysing Disease 

In Traditional Astrology the nature of the disease and the part of 
the body affected is analysed as follows: 

1. The Sign and the Asterism (Nakshatra) rising on the 
Ascendant; the strength of Moon and Sun. 

2. Planets deposited in the b1'1 house. 

3. Afflictions or we may say the strength of the lord of b1'1 

house. 

4. Afflictions or the strength of the Ascendant. 

5. Planets aspecting the planets posited in the b111 house. 



Chapter 13: Analysing Sixth House - Diseases 207 

6. Planets and Houses aspected by the lord of 6111 house. 

7. House or Houses afflicted by malefics (Mars, Sat, Rahu, 
Ketu or functional malefic). 

Some Astrologers emphasise that the nature of the disease 
and the part of the body is also indicated by the affliction of 
the sign by natural or functional malefic. Functional malefics 
are the lords of 6th , 8th and 12th houses in the chart.I think 
it is not rational. The zodiacal degrees only modify the 
behaviour of the planets according to their nature. The effect 
of the sign is, therefore, reflected through planets and the 
houses which are concrete expressions of the mundane or 
the physical body. A malefic like Rahu or Saturn will remain 
in a sign for a pretty long period. It will mean that all the 
persons born when these planets occupy a particular sign 
to suffer the same disease. It is far from truth. 

We will explain the use of the above method to analyse a few 
charts for specific diseases. 

Example 1: Heart disease or T.B of lungs. Refer the chart of 
Fig. 13 

7 
X^Sat \ 5 Mo 

Ma 
8 6 

><>3 
Ra 

9 
<r Me Jup Ven 3 x5 

Su 
Ket 

Su KetxX. 129 2 
Me 

X^^ 11 Xv. / ̂ 1 Mo MaX. Jup Sat Lag 
Ven 

Fig. 13 



208 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Step I: 

The state of health of the native is studied from 

a) The strength of the Ascendant, the planets Sun and Moon. 

b) The strength of the lord of the Ascendant. 

Here Virgo rises in the Ascendant and Mercury is its lord. 

The Strength of the Ascendant: 

No planet is placed in the Ascendant and no planet is aspecting 
the Ascendant. Thus the Ascendant itself is free from any affliction. 

The Strength of Sun: 

Sun in this chart has acquired the lordship of the 12th house-the 
house of self-undoing, hospitalization. It is no doubt placed in the 
Trikona house 5th but in conjunction with the planet Ketu and 
thus in opposition to Rahu. These nodes are known to cause serious 
health hazards. Sun is, therefore, said to be afflicted and the native 
will have constitutional health problems. 

The Strength of Moon: 

Moon in this chart is lord of 11thhouse which, in fact, is the house 
we take to indicate recovery from sickness being 12111 to 12111 

house. But see the group Moon has joined and the alliances it has 
formed. Moon is in S111 house (the house of serious sickness, 
danger, death) and that too along with the lord of the S111 Mars. To 
add fuel to the fire. Moon gets the malefic influence of its alliance 
with Saturn and Rahu. Saturn by its aspect and Rahu by occupying 
Moon's house have severely afflicted Moon. The native's health 
has therefore to suffer due to the weakness of the functional parts 
of the body. 



Chapter 13: Analysing Sixth House - Diseases 209 

Step II: 

Lord of the Ascendant Mercury is placed in a Kendra house 
conjoined with the benefic Jupiter, but Venus is afflicting it because 
it has acquired the maleficience of Saturn who has occupied 
Venus's house. Moreover, Mercury is being aspected by Saturn, 
whose maleficience nature has been enhanced by the aspect of 
8111 lord Mars and its own house being occupied by Sun- the lord 
of 12111 and Ketu. 

Lord of the Ascendant Mercury has acquired enough malificience 
to disturb the health of the native. Mercury, we know rales the 
Earth element and all the three humours. 

Step III: 

The houses to be taken for heart disease are 4 & 5. Sun is the 
Karka for heart disease. 

Here the 4'11 house is severely afflicted by 

i) The aspect of Saturn. 

ii) By the placement of Venus whose house is occupied by 
Saturn and aspected by Mars. 

Fifth House and Sun, the karka for heart disease is under the 
influence of Rahu and Ketu. Rafni's malificience gets enhanced 
due to its depositor Moon occupying 8111 house along with Mars. 

StepIV: 

Lord of 4"' house is afflicted by Saturn's aspect and lord of S1'1 

house Saturn is afflicted by aspect of Mars. 

Above analysis clearly justifies that the patient may have Heart 
Problem or T.B. of lungs. 



210 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Example 2: Analysis of the chart of a diabetic patient. 

The main symptoms of diabetes are Polyurea i.e. excess of thirst 
and polyphagia i.e. excess of appetite. 

This disease is caused due to the malfunctioning of the endocrine 
gland called pancreas. In astrology, the affliction of Jupiter, Venus 
and Moon, along with the affliction of 6* house and its lord causes 
this disease. Let us analyse the chart of Fia. 14. 

Lag 
3 2, Kefu 

Ma 5 Ketu 1 
6^ Mo 

12 Sat 
Su Mer 

Ma 
Ve 7 Rahu 

41 Sat 
Jup \9 / 10 Rahu Jup Ve Su 

Mer 

Fig. 14 

Step I: 

Ascendant is afflicted due to Rahu and Ketu. 

Sun has acquired the malificience of Mars who occupies its house. 
Mar's malificience stands enhanced due to the aspect of Saturn 
who is lord of S111 also. 

Moon is afflicted by both Mars and Saturn. 

All this indicates the state of poor health of the native who is 
expected to suffer diseases related to constitution as well as 
functional parts. 

Step II: 

Lord of the ascendant Mercury is afflicted by Sun whose own 
house is occupied by Mars the lord of the 6111 house. Ascendant it 
self is under the influence of Ketu and Rahu. 



Chapter 13: Analysing Sixth House - Diseases 211 

Step III: 

Jupiter occupies the 6lh house. Jupiter is receiving the enhanced 
malefic influence being aspected by Mars and Saturn and its own 
house is occupied by Rahu. 

Step IV: 

Venus has acquired the lordship of 12111 house - the house of 
hospitalization and self-undoing. The 12111 house i.e. the house of 
Venus is aspected by afflicted Jupiter. 

StepY: 

6th house itself is afflicted by the aspects of Mars and Saturn. 
Lord of 6111 house Mars is severely afflicted by Saturn, the lord of 
8111 house (the house of serious sickness) 

We may therefore, safely justify the native's sufferings through 
diabetes. 

Example 3: Analysing a chart for Impotence: 

Male Impotence is a consistent inability to sustain an erection 
sufficient for sexual intercourse with his partner. It is also called 
erectile dysfunction (ED). 

Sexual dysfunction is often associated with disorders such as 
diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease, nervous system 
disorders, and depression. Erectile dysfunction may also be an 
unwanted side effect from medication. In some men, sexual 
dysfunction may be the symptom of such disorders that brings 
them to the doctor's clinic. 

Premature ejaculation is often confused with erectile dysfunction. 
Premature ejaculation is a condition in which the entire process of 
arousal, erection, ejaculation, and climax occur very rapidly, often 



212 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

in just a few minutes or even seconds, leaving the partner 
unsatisfied. Premature ejaculation may accompany an erection 
problem such as ED but is generally treated differently. 

For a man to have an erection, a complex process takes place 
within the body. 

Erection involves the central nervous system, peripheral nervous 
system, psychological and stress-related factors, local problems 
with the erection bodies or penis itself as well as hormonal and 
vascular (blood flow or circulation) factors. The penile portion of 
the process leading to erections represents only a single component 
of a very complicated and complex process. 

Sexual stimulation causes the release of chemicals from the nerve 
endings in the penis that trigger a series of events that ultimately 
cause muscle relaxation in the erection bodies of the penis. The 
smooth muscle in the erection bodies controls the flow of blood 
into the penis. When the smooth muscle relaxes, the blood flow 
dramatically increases, and the erection bodies become full and 
rigid, resulting in an erection. Venous drainage channels are 
compressed and close off as the erection bodies enlarge. 

Detumescence (when the penis is no longer in a state of erection) 
results when muscle-relaxing chemicals are no longer released. 
Ejaculation causes the smooth muscle tissue of the erection bodies 
in the penis to regain muscle tone, which allows the venous drainage 
channels to open and the blood drains from the penis. 

In Astrology the disease of impotency is caused by an exclusive 
influence of important planets on three factors denoting the semen 
viz. the 7lh house, the lord of the 7lh house and the karaka planet 
Venus. Mercury which mles the nervous system and Mars which 
mles over blood also play significant role. 



Chapter 13: Analysing Sixth House - Diseases 213 

Impotence means the inability to perform sex act, while sterility is 
inability to produce. Venus and Mars rale the sex life. 7th house is 
the house of sexual relationships. Mercury and Saturn are the 
planets that cause impotence if they afflict Venus, Mars and the 
7lh house. Let us examine the chart of Fis. 15. 

Me Su. s^SMaVe Sat Mo 
Ke 

Ju Ra 

12 S Ju 

C Sat Me 
3 Su 

Ke 1 / \ Lag Ma 
2 ^ Ve Ra 

4 

Fig 15 

Step I: 

Ascendant is Sagittarius and its lord is Jupiter. The Ascendant is 
free from any serious affliction except that Saturn aspects it. 

Moon has acquired the lordship of the S111 house and is afflicted 
by Rahu and Ketu. Moreover its depositor has gone to 12th house 
where he is joined by the lord of 6111 house Venus. 

Sun: There is no apparent affliction to Sun, except for the fact 
that it is in the sign whose lord is Saturn. Sun's own house is 
aspected by Jupiter, whose house is occupied by Saturn. 

This reflects that the native is likely to suffer health hazards relating 
to functional parts. 

Step II: 

Lord of the Ascendant Jupiter is in the 3rd house and is afflicted 
due to the enhanced malefic aspect of Mars conjunct lord of 6'11 

house Venus, and its own house being occupied by Saturn. 



214 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Step III: 

Mercury lord of the 7111 house is conjoined with Sun in Capricorn. 
Venus, the lord of the 6111 house, and karaka for the sex life is 
placed in the 12th house and has also acquired the malificience of 
Rahu who has occupied his house. 

StepIV: 

7lh house is afflicted due to the aspect of Mars, which translates 
malefic influence of Venus also. 

All this justify native's impotence. 

Let us examine the case of Fig 15 A of a person who suffered 
from this disease. 

3 1 Lag 
, Ma / 2 "XJU/ Ju Mo Ma 

Ra 
4 Mo 12 

Ra 

5 11 
8 

6 Ks 
Me Sa 10 Ks 

7 
Su \Ve

  /' 9 Sa Su Me 
Vs 

Fig 15 

Here we notice that Venus is the lord of the Ascendant whose 
house is occupied by Rahu. Venus it self is afflicted by Saturn and 
by Ketu. 

Seventh house is afflicted by Saturn and Ketu. Mars is lord of the 
7lh house. Mars own house is occupied by lord of the S111 house. 

The Planet Mercury is also afflicted by the aspect of Mars. Mars 
also occupies mercury's sign Gemini. 



Chapter 13: Analysing Sixth House - Diseases 215 

The Planet Sun which represents vitality is also debilitated. 

Thus we find that all the three factors are severely afflicted and 
justify the disease of the native. 

Example 4: Analysing skin disease-leucoderma: 

This disease is basically due to loss of pigmentation cells of the 
skin. There are numerous theories as to what could cause this 
disease, of which three have been widely accepted. 

The first theory is one of mistaken identity. The immune system 
mistakes the pigment cells for foreign bodies and destroys them. 
The second theory states that certain chemical agents destroy the 
pigment generating cells, while the third theory states that the cells 
are destroyed due to chemical exposure. 

Some believe that it is a hereditary disease but the question has 
not been answered yet. 

In Astrology Planets Venus, Saturn and Mercury and the houses 
6 ,4 ^ x1'1, and 12th play significant role in causing this disease 

under severe afflictions. Let us analyse the chart of a native who is 
suffering from this disease. Refer fig 16 

i . Ve Ra Lag 
Mer Mer 

^11 Sun 
Sun ^X^IOSat 

Ve 
3 Ra 

9 Ke 
Sat Jup 

^x: 6 Ma 

Mo 
/"Jup 5 Ke Ma 7 

Fig. 16 



216 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Step I: 

Ascendant is afflicted due its occupation by Sun the lord of 6111 

and whose own house is occupied by Mars and Ketu. Sun's house 
is also aspected by Venus, the lord of 8th and conjoined with 
Rahu. Therefore, Sun has acquired an enhanced malificience power. 

Ascendant is also afflicted due to Saturn 3rd aspect, whose own 
malificience is enhanced because it is lord of 12th and its house is 
occupied by Venus, lord of 8111 and also the malefic Rahu. 

Sun: It has acquired the lordship of the 6'11 house. It is severely 
afflicted as stated above. 

Moon: It is placed in the 9111 house but is debilitated. It is also 
aspected by Mars from the 6111 house. Mars itself is afflicted due 
to the aspect of Venus from the 12th house. 

The native, therefore, has to suffer health hazards of constitution 
and functional parts. 

Step II: 

Ascendant lord Jupiter is afflicted due to its placement in the house 
of sickness along with Mars & Ketu. It is also under severe 
affliction from Venus. 

Step III: 

Both Venus and Mercury are under severe affliction as stated 
above. 

StepIV: 

Both the S1'1 house (due to aspect of Saturn) and 12th house are 
severely afflicted. 



Chapter 13: Analysing Sixth House - Diseases 217 

The above analysis, therefore, justify the native's suffering from 
leucodenna. 

Example 5: Analysis of Rheumatic diseases: 

Rheumatic diseases refer to the conditions affecting the joints, 
bones, muscles and skin that cause one or more of the following 
symptoms: inflammation, stiffness, weakness, loss of mobility and 
deformity. 

These diseases are caused by the deficiency of the humour vata 
(wind) in the body. This humour is controlled by the planets Moon, 
Mercury, Venus, and Saturn. The affliction caused to these planets 
and their association with lagna, lagna lord, 6th house and 6111 

lord. 

1 11 Lag Ra 
 ^ 

Ra 2 12 10 Mo Sa 
Me 

3 Sun 
9 

Sa^ Ma Mo 
Me 4 s Ve 
Sun Jup VXv S Ke Ma 

5 ^ 7 Ke Ve 
Jup 

Fig-17 

Step I: 

Ascendant is afflicted due to the aspect of Mars who is conjoined 
with Venus lord of the 8th. Mars own house 9"' is also under the 
influence of Rahu and Ketu. Mars is also aspected by Saturn lord 
of 12th, Saturn's own malefic influence is further enhanced. 
Jupiter's aspect over lagna is also not providing much assistance 
by Jup's conjunction with Venus who is lord of 8th. 

Sun: It has acquired the lordship of the house of sickness. It is 
afflictedby Saturn, the lord of the 12111. Even Mercury has acquired 



218 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

the malefic nature because its house is occupied by Mars. 

Moon: Though placed in the 11th house, is severely afflicted by 
the aspect of Mercury, Saturn, and Sun. 

The native, therefore, has to face health hazards. 

Step II: 

Ascendant lord Jupiter is afflicted by Mars and Venus. 

Step III: 

The planet Moon, Venus, Mercury and Saturn all are afflicted and 
thus will cause forthe deficiency of the humour vata (wind) 

Step IV: 

The airy houses, viz 3rd are afflicted by Rahu, 7111 by Mars and 
Venus, and the 11 ^ by Saturn and Sun. 

All this indicates that the native has to suffer diseases due to the 
deficiency of the element air and the humour Vata (wind). The 
native thus had severe Rheumatic attack. 

Example 6: Cancer Cases: 

Cancer is a class of diseases characterized by out-of-controlcell 
growth. There are over 100 different types of cancer, and each is 
classified by the type of cell that is initially affected. 

Cancer harms the body when damaged cells divide uncontrollably 
to form lumps or masses of tissue called tumors (except in the 
case of leukemia where cancer prohibits normal blood function 
by abnormal cell division in the blood stream). Tumors can grow 
and interfere with the digestive, nervous, and circulatory systems 
and they can release hormones that alter body function. Tumors 



Chapter 13: Analysing Sixth House - Diseases 219 

that stay in one spot and demonstrate limited growth are generally 
considered to be benign. 

More dangerous, or malignant, tumors form when two things occur: 

A cancerous cell manages to move throughout the body using the 
blood or lymph systems, destroying healthy tissue in a process 
called invasion that cell manages to divide and grow, making new 
blood vessels to feed itself in a process called angiogenesis. 

When a tumor successfully spreads to other parts of the body and 
grows, invading and destroying other healthy tissues, it is said to 
have metastasized. This process itself is called metastasis, and the 
result is a serious condition that is very difficult to treat. 

Symptoms of cancer: 

Cancer symptoms are quite varied and depend on where the 
cancer is located, where it has spread, and how big the tumor is. 
Some cancers can be felt or seen through the skin - a lump on the 
breast or testicle can be an indicator of cancer in those locations. 
Skin cancer (melanoma) is often noted by a change in a wart or 
mole on the skin. Some oral cancers present white patches inside 
the mouth or white spots on the tongue. 

Other cancers have symptoms that are less physically apparent. 
Some brain tumors tend to present symptoms early in the disease 
as they affect important cognitive functions. Pancreas cancers are 
usually too small to cause symptoms until they cause pain by 
pushing against nearby nerves or interfere with liver function to 
cause a yellowing of the skin and eyes called jaundice. Symptoms 
also can be created as a tumor grows and pushes against organs 
and blood vessels. For example, colon cancers lead to symptoms 
such as constipation, diarrhea, and changes in stool size. Bladder 
or prostate cancers cause changes in bladder function such as 
more frequent or infrequent urination. 



220 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Classification of Cancer 

There are five broad groups that are used to classify cancer. 

Carcinomas are characterized by cells that cover internal and 
external parts of the body such as lung, breast, and colon cancer. 

Sarcomas are characterized by cells that are located in bone, 
cartilage, fat, connective tissue, muscle, and other supportive 
tissues. 

Lymphomas are cancers that begin in the lymph nodes and immune 
system tissues. 

Leukemias are cancers that begin in the bone marrow and often 
accumulate in the bloodstream. 

Adenomas are cancers that arise in the thyroid, the pituitary gland, 
the adrenal gland, and other glandular tissues. 

Cancers are often referred to by terms that contain a prefix related 
to the cell type in which the cancer originated and a suffix such as 
-sarcoma, -carcinoma, or just -oma. Common prefixes include: 

Adeno- = gland 

Chondro- = cartilage 

Erythro- = red blood cell 
Hemangio- = blood vessels 

Hepato- = liver 

Lipo- = fat 

Lympho- = white blood cell 

Melano- = pigment cell 

Myelo- = bone marrow 

Myo- = muscle 

Osteo- = bone 



Chapter 13: Analysing Sixth House - Diseases 221 

Uro- = bladder 

Retino- = eye 

Neuro- = brain 

In Astrology cancer is generated in the body when 1st /6ai /8th 

lords makes any relationship with Mars, Rahu and Saturn. The 
role of various planets in producing cancer in the body is as follows: 

Sun Head (brain), bone, stomach, eyes 

Moon Blood, breast, lungs, and heart 

Mars Blood, sex organs, utems, waist, muscles 

Mercury Mouth, naval region 

Jupiter liver, tongue, spleen, thigh 

Venus Sex organs, prostrate glands, kidney, throat 

Saturn Teeth, legs, hands. 

Let us discuss the chart of a person who suffered from Brain 
Cancer. Refer Fig 18 

3 1 
, Ve / Sa Lag 

Ke Ve 
4 2 12 

Su Ke Sa 
5 Su 

Mo 11 
Me Mo 

8 Me 
6 Ma 10 

Ra 9 Ju Ma 
Ju Ra 

Fig 18 

Here the Ascendant is occupied by Ketu who is aspected by 
Saturn and Mars. Mars is also in association with Rahu and thus 
transales its influence also on the Ascendant. Ketu is known to 
generate mysterious diseases in the body. Ascendant lord Venus 



True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

is aspected by the lord of the 8111 house Jupiter and Asc is being 
aspected by Saturn. Thus we notice that the Ascendant and its 
lord is severely afflicted which account for the disease of brain 
cancer. 

Let us discuss the case of a lady who had to undergo right Radical 
Mastectomv (surgery) for breast cancer. Refer Fig_19. 

10 8 Me 
7 Ma Ve Su 

11 9 Ra Ke 
SaR Mo 

12 6 
Ma JuR 

iX 
Me Ve 3 5 
Ke/ tag Ra u

Su 4 SaR Mo J R 
 

Fig 19 

Overview of Breast Cancer 

Breast cancer is also known as 'Carcinoma of the breast'. It 
indicates a malignant growth starting in the breast tissue that can 
spread to lymph nodes, bones and other parts of the body. There 
are many types of breast cancers, those that form in the milk glands, 
in the ducts that carry milk, in the fatty area or in the connective 
tissue of the breast. 

Symptoms of Breast Cancer 

Knowing the signs of the cancer can help in early detection and 
treatment to save life. Some of the potential breast cancer 
symptoms include: 

Lump or thickening in the breast or armpit - usually painless, firm 
to hard and usually with irregular borders 



Chapter 13: Analysing Sixth House - Diseases 223 

A change in the size or shape of the breast abnormal nipple 
discharge, usually bloody or clear-to-yellow or green fluid which 
may look like pus (pumlent) 

Any flattening or indentation of the skin over your breast 

Retraction, enlargement, or itching of nipple 

Breast pain, enlargement, or discomfort on one side only 

Symptoms of advanced disease are bone pain, weight loss, swelling 
of one arm, and skin ulceration. 

In Astrology we say that Lords of Lagna and 6 th in the 10th 

house aspected by Mars or Saturn predispose one to cancer 
of the breast. Moon's affliction in the sign Cancer is another 
factor which may cause the disease of breast cancer.If Moon 
is lord of the 6th house and is afflicted by planets like Saturn, 
Mars, Rahu and Ketu and also connects the houses 3 rd and 
4th, the disease of breast cancer is indicated. 

Ketu rules over the cells and tissues and give rise to the 
disease of cancer. Rahu is known to cause morbid and erratic 
growth and if it afflicts Moon, the 4th house or its lord it can 
cause the breast cancer. 

In Fig 19 Moon is the lord of the 8th house and is afflicted by 
Rahu. Venus lord of the 6111 house also aspects Moon. 

12th lord Mars occupies the 4th house and afflicts the lord of the 
Ascendant who is placed in the lO111 house. Mars own house is 
also occupied by lord of the 6th house Venus and Ketu. Ascendant 
it self is occupied by Saturn. 

Thus we notice that Moon the karaka for breasts, 4111 house and 
its lord are severely afflicted. This caused the native to suffer this 
disease. 



224 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Example 7: Liver, Pancreas and Gallbladder Diseases: 

The liver is the largest glandular organ of the body. It weighs about 
3 lb (1.36 kg). It is reddish brown in color and is divided into four 
lobes of unequal size and shape. The liver lies on the right side of 
the abdominal cavity beneath the diaphragm. Blood is carried to 
the liver via two large vessels called the hepatic artery and the 
portal vein. The heptic artery carries oxygen-rich blood from the 
aorta (a major vessel in the heart). The portal vein carries blood 
containing digested food from the small intestine. These blood 
vessels subdivide in the liver repeatedly, terminating in very small 
capillaries. Each capillary leads to a lobule. Liver tissue is 
composed of thousands of lobules, and each lobule is made up of 
hepatic cells, the basic metabolic cells of the liver. 

Function of Liver: 

The liver has many functions. Some of the functions are: to produce 
substances that break down fats, convert glucose to glycogen, 
produce urea (the main substance of urine), make certain amino 
acids (the building blocks of proteins), filter harmful substances 
from the blood (such as alcohol), storage of vitamins and minerals 
(vitamins A, D, K and B12) and maintain a proper level or glucose 
in the blood. The liver is also responsible for producing cholesterol. 
It produces about 80% of the cholesterol in your body. 

Diseases of Liver: 

Several diseases states can affect the liver. Some of the diseases 
are Wilson's disease, hepatitis (an inflammation of the liver), liver 
cancer, and cirrhosis (a chronic inflammation that progresses 
ultimately to organ failure). Alcohol alters the metabolism of the 
liver, which can have overall detrimental effects if alcohol is taken 
over long periods of time. 



Chapter 13: Analysing Sixth House - Diseases 225 

Hemochromatosis can cause liver problems. 

The Pancreas: Anatomy and Functions 

Anatomy of the pancreas: 

The pancreas is an elongated, tapered organ located across the 
back of the abdomen, behind the stomach. The right side of the 
organ (called the head) is the widest part of the organ and lies in 
the curve of the duodenum (the first section of the small intestine). 
The tapered left side extends slightly upward (called the body of 
the pancreas) and ends near the spleen (called the tail). 

The pancreas is made up of two types of tissue: 

• Exocrine tissue: 

The exocrine tissue secretes digestive enzymes. These 
enzymes are secreted into a network of ducts that join the 
main pancreatic duct, which runs the length of the pancreas. 

• Endocrine tissue: 

The endocrine tissue, which consists of the islets of 
Langerhans, secretes hormones into the bloodstream. 

Functions of the pancreas: 

The pancreas has digestive and hormonal functions: 

• The enzymes secreted by the exocrine tissue in the pancreas 
help break down carbohydrates, fats, proteins, and acids 
in the duodenum. These enzymes travel down the pancreatic 
duct into the bile duct in an inactive form. When they enter 
the duodenum, they are activated. The exocrine tissue also 
secretes bicarbonate to neutralize stomach acid in the 
duodenum. 



226 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

The hormones secreted by the endocrine tissue in the 
pancreas are insulin and glucagon (which regulate the level 
of glucose in the blood), and somatostatin (which prevents 
the release of the other two hormones). 

Gallbladder: 

The gallbladder is located in the abdomen, on the right side, 
underneath the liver. The gallbladder stores bile produced by the 
liver and delivers it to the first part of the small intestine (duodenum), 
where it aids in the digestion of fat. 

Astrological Factors for Liver, Pancreas and Gallbladder Diseases: 

Cirrosis of Liver: 

Jupiter is considered to be karaka for liver. When there is a weak 
Lagna or badly aspected Lagna with severe affliction of Jupiter 
anywhere in the horoscope, the person is likely to suffer from liver 
disease. In addition if the 5th house or its lord is also afflicted it 
may cause Liver disease. Influence of Saturn on Jupiter causes 
the hypo function of the liver. If Jupiter and Saturn are in the 5th 

house in a horoscope and if they are afflicted by malefic planets 
then it causes severe damage to liver. If Jupiter and Saturn are in 
association anywhere in the horoscope there will be improper 
functioning of the liver throughout life. But in case Jupiter and 
Saturn are associated in the 5th house, there will be slow growing 
severe chronic liver disease leading to hepatic coma and death of 
the person. 

Let us consider the horoscope of a person who suffered from 
Cirrosis of Liver which proved fatal. Refer Fig 20. 



Chapter 13: Analysing Sixth House ■ Diseases 227 

MaR Ke Ve 

Su Me Su 
Me 
Ju 

Lag 
Mo Sa 

Ra 

Fig 20 

We may note that the Ascendant is afflicted by the occupation of 
Saturn and Rahu. Moon the karaka for functional diseases is 
aspected by Venus who is the lord of the 12th house and occupies 
8th house. Venus is also receiving the aspect of Mars (lord of 6th). 

Jupiter the karaka for liver is afflicted by Mercury who is the lord 
of the 8th house. Mercury's own house is occupied by the lord of 
the 12th house.Jupiter is also the lord of the 5th house who is 
occupied by Mars. 

All these factors justify the nature of the disease which the native 
suffered from. 

Diseases of Pancreas: Malfunctioning of Pancreas result in 
diabetes or hypoglycemia.Some general diseases of the Pancreas 
may include benign tumours, cancer, cystic fibrosis and pancreatitis. 

Jupiter and Virgo rales the Pancreas. Virgo rales the breaking 
down, organizing and analyzing processes that take place in the 
body. In the Pancreas there is breaking down regarding the 
carbohydrate metabolism. Pancreas is concerned with the release 
of pancreatic juices that will digest all kinds of food. Internal 
secretions from Pancreas also include the harmones insulin and 
gycogon, both of which play a vital role in carbohydrate 
metabolism. 



228 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Thus, if, in a horoscope the Ascendant is afflicted along with the 
affliction of Jupiter,6th house or Virgo especially by Saturn which 
causes hypo function then the native is likely to suffer from the 
diseases of the Pancreas. We have already discussed in example2 
the case of a person who suffered from diabetes. 

Gallbladder Disease: The main diseases that arise due to the 
malfunctioning of the gallbladder are gall stones, blockage of bile 
ducts leading to jaundiced etc. Gallstones form when the liquid 
bile hardens and changes to hard pieces of stone-like material 
which then can block the common bile duct causing symptoms 
such as nausea and vomiting, or what is often called a gallbladder 
attack. Saturn rules crystallization and constriction. When 
Saturn is in Cancer or Capricorn one has a sluggish gallbladder 
function with poor bile consistency. Some say that if the Lagna 
Lord and Mars are posited together in 6th /8th /12th houses, one 
may suffer from rheumatism and gall bladder stones. 

Example: Paralysis Diseases: 

Paralysis is the complete failure of muscle function for one or more 
muscle groups. Paralysis can cause loss of emotion or loss of 
mobility in the affected area. 

Paralysis is most often caused by injury to the nervous system or 
brain, especially the spinal cord. Most important causes are stroke, 
trauma, poliomyelitis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), 
botulism, spina bifida, multiple sclerosis, and Guillain-Barre 
syndrome. Poisons that get in the way with nerve function, such 
as curare, can also cause paralysis. Many causes of this are varied, 
and could also be unidentified. 

Paralysis may be localized, or generalized, or it may follow a certain 
instance. For instance, localized paralysis occurs in Bell's palsy 
where one side of the face may be paralyzed due to inflammation 



Chapter 13: Analysing Sixth House - Diseases 229 

of the facial nerve on that side. Patients with stroke may be weak 
all over their body (global paralysis) or have hemiplegia (weakness 
on one side of the body) or other patterns of paralysis depending 
on the area of injury in the brain. 

Astrological Factors: 

Paralysis is basically is caused by the obstruction of blood 
circulation in the affected area. The obstruction of arteries or blood 
vessels is caused by their constriction which may be due to 
inflammation or crystallization of the flowing material or formation 
of clots. 

Saturn rules over crstallisation and shrinkage, Sun and Mars rules 
over inflammation.Mercury rules the nervous system. Thus if the 
Ascendant or its lord is afflicted by Saturn, Mercury or Mars 
especially from the 6th or the 8th house then the native may suffer 
from paralysis. 

Lag Sat Ket 

Van 

Su,Mo 
Ma,Me 

Jup 
Ra 

Fig 21 

Fig 21 is the chart of a person who suffered from paralysis of right 
side after meeting with an accident. Here we find that the Karaka 
Planet Mercury is associated with the lord of the 6th house who is 
Sun and is known to cause inflammation. Since both Mercury and 
Sun are placed in the 9th house they will affect the hips and legs. 
Mars the lord of the 9,h house is placed in its sign of debilitation 



230 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

and as such renders the 9th house weak. Mars is heavily afflicted 
by Saturn and Rahu. It is said that Saturn and Ketu association 
causes seious windy imbalance. The Planet Saturn cause the hypo 
function of the parts or organs represented by the sign in which it 
is placed.Ketu rales the tissues and cells.Thus we find that the 
parts represented by Capricorn are also affected. 10th lord Jupiter 
is placed in the 12th house and is aspected by debilitated Mars. 

All these clearly point out the reasons for the disease of paralysis. 



Chapter 14 

Analysing the Seventh House 

Marriage 

Seventh house stands for partners and associates whose interests 
are blended with those obthe native whether in love or hate. It is 
known as "Kalatra Sathanam" -the place of spouse, sexual union, 
semen, genitals and secret pleasures arising from sexual union. It 
also signifies, trade, private business, social relationships, 
international relationships, break in journey, marriage, divorce. 
We will limit our discussion to the analysis of the 7th house to the 
delineation of the nativity with respect to his marriage and married 
life. 

Indians regarded marriage in the ancient past as a sacred institution, 
which provides legal, moral and social sanctity to the native to 
enjoy sexual pleasures. The purpose, of course, was procreation. 
With the crumbling of the moral values, marriage today is regarded 
by many as if it is nothing more than legalized prostitution. 
Marriage, in fact, has different connotations in different societies 
in the world. People enjoy sexual pleasures living under the same 
roof with mutual consent and even produce a child, yet they are 
not ready to use the word marriage to describe their relationship. 
Such questions pose serious problems to the Astrologer when he 
is asked upon to analyse the horoscope to answer a volley of 
questions by the native or his/her parents. 

The Astrologer analyses the horoscope for the aspect of marriage 
to look for answers for the two most important questions. 



232 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

1. Is the native promised marriage? 

2. When the marriage will take place, if it is promised. 

There is, of course, a long list of supplementary questions relating 
to marriage viz. 

A. Will it be love or arranged marriage ? 

B. Will there be delay and impediments in marriage? 

C. What will be the physical and mental characteristics of the 
partner? 

D. What will be the financial status and career profile of the 
partner? 

E. Will the partner enjoy long and healthy life? 

F. From which direction and locality the partner will come? 

G What will be the quality and longevity of Married Fife? 

H. Is there any chance of separation or second marriage? 

I. Is the partner capable to perform sexual act? 

J. Is the partner capable to procreate? 

Method of Analysis of Horoscope for Marriage 

The following procedure should be followed in analyzing the 
horoscope for any aspect or event. / 

1. Decide the houses that will take part in the happening of the 
event. 

2. Analyse the strength of these houses especially the primary 
house, (say 7th for marriage) as follows: 

L The signs/stars rising on the houses. 

iL Planets placed in the houses. 



Chapter 14: Analysing the Seventh House - Marriage 233 

iii Planets aspecting the houses. 

3. Analyse the strength of the lord of the primary house and 
the other relevant houses. 

4. Analyse the strength of the Karka planets for the event. 

5. Analyse the strength of Dasa periods. 

Houses that need to be analysed For Marriage: 

Generally the Vedic Astrologers consider the 7th house as the 
primary house for marriage. The other relevant houses are taken 
as: 

Second House: It is the house of family. Marriage is taken as an 
addition in the family. Here I would like to suggest the readers to 
ponder a hole bit. The marriage may be an addition in the family if 
the marriage partner joins the family. Moreover, the 2nd house is, 
infact, a house of danger, death to the 7th house. 

Fifth House: It is the house of magnetic attractions, socially 
accepted forms of courtship, Romantic affairs and Progeny. 

Eleventh House: It is the house of fulfillment of one's desires 
and personal needs. It is also the fifth house from the 7th House. 

Twelth House: It is considered as the house of pleasures of bed. 
How far we need to take 12th house to analyse marriage is a 
question for debate. One can enjoy bed comforts outside wedlock. 
This house is the house of self-undoing and is generally regarded 
as a house of loss. 

Fourth House: No doubt it is considered as the house of domestic 
happiness but why should it need to take part in enacting marriage 
is questionable. This house being 12th to the 5th house can detail 
for disturbed married life. 



234 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Promise or Denial of Marriage 

Books on Astrology are rampant with specific yogas or 
combinations of planets that if present in a horoscope promise or 
denies marriage. Applications of yogas are more often than not 
misleading. You may find horoscopes where these combinations 
are present and the experience show contrary results. Some 
Astrologers, however, boastfully claim to hit lucky shots. The 
promise or denial should be judged from the strength of the 7th 

house and its lord. One may use the strength of the Karka planets 
as a supporting factor. 

Marriage is said to be promised if 

a. The Ascendent or its lord establishes a relationship with 
houses 2 or 5 or? or 11 or their lords. 

b. The 7th house or its lord establishes a relationship with 
houses 2 or 5 or? or 11 or their lords. 

c. Jupiter, Venus or Moon establishes a relationship with 
houses 2 or 5 or? or 11 or their lords. 

Relationship is said to be established either through placement of 
lords of the houses or by their aspects on relevant houses. For 
example, if the Ascendant or the 7,h lord is placed in 2 or 5 or 7 
or 11 or in Kendra or Trikona from these houses, or these lords 
aspects the houses 2 or 5 or 7 or 11, we will say that these lords 
have established relationship with the concerned house. 

Marriage Promised but Delayed: Marriage comes off late due 
to the following reasons: 

1. Lord of 7th house is weak or placed in the house 4, or 6, or 
10 (i.e. in the 12th house to the relevant house) or 12 or 
conjunct with these lords. 

2. 7th house itself is afflicted by lords of 6 or 12, or malefics. 



Chapter 14: Analysing the Seventh House ■ Marriage 235 

3. Lord of the 7th house is aspected by lord of 6 or 12. 

4. If Saturn is placed in 1, 3, 5, 7 or 10 counted from 
Ascendent or Moon. 

5. If Moon and Saturn conjoin especially in 1,2or 11. 

6. If Venus is afflicted especially by Mars in 5,7 or 9. 

7. If Venus and Lord of 7 are aspected by Saturn. 

8. If Jupiter is placed in a Kendra or square to Moon and 
Venus. 

Note: Absence of above indicates Marriage at Normal age. 

Let us analyse the following charts to find out 

1) whether marriage is promised or not; 

2) if marriage is promised, will it come off early or late? 

Example: Fig 14.1 

Sal Lag Set Ket 

Kel 
Ven 

Veti 
Su Su,Mo 
Mo Ma,Me 
Ma 
Me Jup 

Ra 

Fig 14.1 

This is the chart of a native who married at the age of 25 years. 

Let us see the Promise of Marriage. 

1. Ascendant Lord Mars is placed in the 5th house along with 
Moon. 

2. Mars aspects the 11thhouse. 



236 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

3. Mars is receiving the aspect of Jupiter. 

4. Venus, the lord of 7th house is placed in a Kendra from 7th 

house. 

This clearly indicates that marriage is promised. 

Reason for marriage at normal age can be listed below: 

1. Ascendant lord is placed in 5th house in conjunction with 
lord of 6th house Mercury & Jupiter aspects it. 

2. Saturn lord of 11 aspects Venus. 

The effect of Mercury lord of 6 and Saturn could cause only delay 
to the extent that marriage has not taken place in the teen age. 

Example 2: Fig. 14.2 

Su Ma Ra Ma Ke 
Sat 

0 
Me 

Su.Ve 
Ju, Me 

12 
Mo 

Ma Ke Sal Ra Ug 

Fig 14.2 

The native of this chart married at the age 29 years. 

Promise of marriage: Lord of Ascendant is placed in Kendra to 
Lord of 7 Venus, and Jupiter lord of 2 & 5.1t is also in Kendra 
with lord of 11 Mercury. 

Lord of 7 Venus is in conjunction with Jupiter the lord of 2 and 5, 
and also with lord of 11 Mercury 

This clearly indicates marriage is promised. 



Chapter 14: Analysing the Seventh House - Marriage 237 

Reasons for delayed marriage can be listed below: 

1. Lord of 7 Venus is conjunct with Mercury who is also lord 
of 8th house, which is occupied by Saturn. 

2. Moon is afflicted due to Saturn's aspect. 

3. Jupiter is placed in a Kendra to Venus. 

4. Venus and Jupiter are both conjunct with Sun, lord of 10 
i.e. lord of ^^house to the 11thhouse. 

5. Moon is under the aspect of lord of 4 Saturn from the 8th 

house. 

Happy or Unhappy married life: 

It is analysed by studying the influences to which the 7th house 
and its lord are subjected to in a horoscope. In addition to this, 
the influences on Moon, Venus and Mars need special attention. 
Moon is the seat of desire, panting, longing, craving and lust; it is 
flirtation. Venus is a selfless lover and on the negative side, it is in 
its nature to undergo prostitution, incest, and homosexuality. Mars 
is the seat of burning desires and of strong sexual feelings and 
rules over the instincts. When these planets form relationships in 
signs or houses, which heighten these desires, the native will involve 
in sexual intrigues. 

Married life will be happy if: 

1. 7,h house is free from the influence of lords of 4,6,10,12 
that is none of these lords is placed in the 7th house or none 
of these lords aspect the 7th house. 

2. Lord of 7th is free from the influence of the lords of 4,6, 
10,12th houses 



238 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

3. Lord of 7th house is not placed in 4 or 6 or 10 or 12 houses. 

4. 7th house and its lord are free from Saturn's influence. It is 
said; Saturn remains a sinister & monster at heart. Its lechery 
and lust are completely sickening. 

5. There should be mutually good relationship between Moon, 
Venus, Mars, and Saturn. 

6. Lagana and its lord should be free from the negatively excited 
Mars or Saturn or any planet for which the first house is the 
house of debilitation or detriment. All planets are said to 
aspect the diametrically opposite house i.e. 7th house from 
the house they occupy. Being debilitated or in detriment 
they cause perversion in the native and disturbs the 7th house 
significations. 

Marriage life will be unhappy if: 

1. 7th house is under the malefic influence of lords of 4,6,10, 
or 12. 

2. Lord of 7th house is under the malefic influence of lords of 
4, 6, 10, 12 

3. Lord of 7th house is placed in 2,4, 6,10,12. 

4. Saturn or Mars afflicts Lord of 7th house. 

5. Moon, Venus, Mars and Saturn form unhealthy or malefic 
relationship amongst themselves or with respect to 7th house 
and its lord. It is believed that the conjunction of Moon and 
Venus is not conducive to happy married life. This is 
probably due to the fact that Moon is lord of the 4th house 
in the natural zodiac and its conjunction with Venus being 
the lord of 2 and 7 in the natural zodiac is equivalent to the 
influence of the 4th house (12th to the 5th house) on lord of 



Chapter 14: Analysing the Seventh House - Marriage 239 

7th as well as the chief governor of sexual life. It is, however, 
suggested that we should not jump to the conclusion that 
this combination if present in the horoscope will cause for 
disturbed marriage. If this combination is present in 
4,6,10,12 house, there can be some reason to believe that 
this may amount to disturbance in married life. We should 
be sure that Moon or Venus has acquired enough 
maleficience in the horoscope to provide their negative 
characteristics. 

6. Ascendant lord should not form very strong relationship 
with 4th,6th, 10th, 12th house. 

Extra-marital relationships or plurality of sexual 

relationship 

Will a person involve in sexual intrigues or sexual relationships 
with persons other than his or her legally or socially accepted 
partner can be judged from the analysis of the Ascendant and the 
7* house as follows: 

1. Ascendant indicates the mental set-up of the native. If planets 
that are negatively excited influence Ascendant, they will 
force the native to involve in unsocial acts. If these planets 
simultaneously form relationship with the 7* house or the 
9* house (9thbeing the 3rd fronW* house is the house of 
multiplications of 7* house signification) the person will 
involve in sexual intrigues.In general, when planets in 
Ascendant are not finding the sign rising on the Ascendant 
to be in accordance with their positive attributes, they will 
by their aspect on the 7* house cause for disturbed married 
life. Sun and Mars in Aries cause for sexual intrigues because 
of their acquiring more "man normal passion or sexual instincts. 



240 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Similarly, if the Ascendant lord is under the influence of Mars, 
Saturn or negatively excited Moon or Venus, and it 
establishes a link with 7th or 9* house the native may involve 
in extra- marital relationships. The influence is more 
pronounced if the Ascendant lord is placed in Ist or 5* or 
7* house. 

2. 7* house is the house of sexual relationships. If this house 
or its lord is afflicted and establishes relationship with 9* 
house, it indicates plurality of sexual relationship. 

Physical and Mental characteristics of the 

Partner 

Taking the 7* house as the Ascendant of the partner will indicate 
these. The characteristics will depend upon the following: 

1. The sign/star rising on the 7* house. 

2. Planets placed in the seventh house. 

3. Planets Aspecting the seventh house. 

4. Seventh lord and its strength. 

Profession and Financial Status of the Partner 

Profession is indicated by the 10th house, and the financial status 
by the 2nd house. However the potential of any house is limited by 
the potential of the Ascendant. Therefore, to assess profession of 
the partner we have to analyse 4* house (10* from 7*) and 8* 
house (2nd to 7*) in consonance with the 7* house. 



Chapter 14: Analysing the Seventh House - Marriage 241 

Age difference between the Partners 

This is studied through the influence of planets on 7* house and 
its lord. Saturn's influence is indicative of elderly partner, or a 
partner who looks elder than his/her age. Jupiter, Sun, Venus, 
denote proper age difference. Moon, Mars, and Mercury indicate 
young partners i.e. age difference may be small. However, it should 
be remembered that the planet's own nature is itself conditioned 
by the sign in which it is placed. Mars, for example, in Saturn's 
sign may cause for more age difference. 

Direction and locality of the Partner 

Each planet, each house and each sign has been assigned the ruler 
ship over a direction. To determine the direction of the partner 
means the direction of the birthplace of the partner with respect to 
the place of birth of the native. Locality means the living place of 
the partner with respect to the living place of the native. Direction 
is determined by the placement and influence of the lord of the 7* 
house on other houses and their lords. For example if the lord of 
the 7* house establishes linkage with 10th house the partner may 
be from South direction; with Ascendant East; with 3rd may be 
North-East; with 5* may be North-West etc. Locality of the 
partner should strictly be judged from the placement of 10th lord 
because 10th is fourth from the 7th. If the 10th lord is placed in 4* 
or establishes a strong relationship with the 4* lord, the partner 
may be from the same locality or town; with 9* house, the partner 
may be from a far-offplace; 12th house, the partner may be from 
overseas, 2nd house, the partner may be from the family. 



242 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Nature of Marriage 

How the marriage will take place is indicated by the planet and its 
houses of lordship that maintains a strong connection with 7* 
house. It is indicated below: 

Lord of Nature of Marriage 
House 
rt By self-efforts or with an associate. 

II nd With the efforts of the family members or with a family 
member. 

IIIrd With the efforts of neighbours, through 
correspondence, or with a person from nearby place 

IV* Through the efforts of mother, or marriage with a 
close relative. 

yth Love marriage, or marriage with an artist, sports 
person. 

VP With the help of maternal relations, colleagues, or 
marriage with a sub-ordinate or servant.  

VII* Marriage through the court of law or with the help 
of a social worker or a public personality. 

VHP Sudden and unexpected marriage. 

IX^ With the efforts of father, guru, or new friends, may 
be with an unknown person. 

X th Through the assistance of persons working at the 
same place as the native or with a colleague. 

XI th Marriage with a friend or with the member of the 
family of a friend; with the efforts of friends. 

XIP1 Secret marriage or marriage overseas. 



Chapter 14: Analysing the Seventh House ■ Marriage 243 

General influence of planets in seventh house on Marriage 

The following paragraphs describe the influence of planets on 
marriage and married life when placed in 7* house. It may 
however be kept in mind that each planet's influence stands to 
modification as per the sign/star rising on the 7* house and also 
by aspects of other planets. 

Sun: 

It indicates that the partner will be of independent, proud, 
ambitious; generous and honorable disposition, if Sun is not afflicted. 
Afflicted Sun on the other hand may find the partner arrogant, 
dominating, selfish and extravagant. 

Moon: 

Moon's placement in the 7* house represents the inconsistent, 
sensitive, impressionable nature of the partner. It is difficult to trust 
the partner. Moon is flirtation, eroticism and if afflicted may indicate 
immoral partner. 

Mars: 

It is considered to be a very inharmonious position. It not only 
spoils the signification of the 7* house by its placement but also 
the Ascendant and second house through its aspect. 2nd house 
and Ascendant are the 7* and 8* house for the 7* house. The 
partner, therefore gets boldness and courage to involve in sexual 
intrigues or unsocial acts. It is also not good for the health and 
longevity of the partner. 

Mercury: 

It indicates a partner with sharp intellect but Mercury being bi- 
polar in nature it poses problems of understanding. Afflicted 
Mercury often results in verbal quarrels. 



244 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Jupiter: 

It is a planet of plurality. From 7* house it aspects the Ascendant 
& the 11th house and thus causes for plurality of sexual 
relationships. Jupiter in 7* house is symbolic of a generous, 
optimistic, healthy partner. 

Saturn: 

Like Mars, Saturn's position in the 7* house is seen as a signal of 
danger, divorce, separation, impotence, sexual perversions, etc, 
It gives rise to misconceptions in relations. 

Venus: 

It is symbolic of too much passion and its affliction can cause for 
immorality of the partner. Venus, however, indicates that the partner 
will be beautiful, a lover of peace and of artistic talents. 

Rahu: 

Its behaviour is, in general, like that of Saturn. It may cause for 
plurality of sexual relationships, separation or divorce, out of caste 
marriage, with low caste people. The actual behaviour of Rahu 
should however be analysed as per the planet it represents in the 
horoscope. 

Ketu: 

Its behaviour is, in general, like that of Mars. It, therefore, 
symbolizes sexual intrigues an unconventional marriage. However, 
its true influence should be judged as per the nature of the planet 
it represents in the horoscope. 



Chapter 14: Analysing the Seventh House ■ Marriage 245 

General Influence of Lord of Seventh in Other 

Houses 

The following paragraphs describe the general influence of the 
placement of lord of 7* house in other houses. The true influence 
will however depend on the sign/star rising on that house and also 
other planets influence on lord of 7* house. 

1st House: It indicates the partner will dominate the native because 
from here the 7* lord aspects its own house and thus the 7* 
house gains in strength. Depending upon the nature of the lord of 
7* and the sign rising on the Ascendant it may cause for plurality 
of sexual relationships. 

2nd House: Not good for the health of the partner but may provide 
financial success after marriage. 

3rd House: Gains strength and confidence after marriage. 
Marriage may happen early. 

4th House: Wife may get a dignified status in profession but this 
placement is not good for happy married life. The partner will feel 
dissatisfied. 

5th House: It is symbolic of love marriage i.e. marriage due to 
magnetic attractions (5* house) between the native (Ascendant) 
and the partner (7* house). However, if Saturn is Lord of the 7*, 
its placement in 5* house calls for delay and impediments in 
marriage. 

6,h House: It is indicative of marital problems, separation, divorce. 
However, the native may gain after marriage because 6* lord is 
12* to 7* house and thus loss to his opponents. 

7th House: In general it indicates successful marriage. However, 
it depends upon the nature of the planet and the sign/star rising on 
the 7* house. 



246 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

8th House: Late or delayed marriage. Partner may die before the 
death of the native. Self arranged marriage out of foolish passions. 
Malefic lord of 7* in 8* may cause widowhood. 

9* House: Support to religious activities or may cause for extra- 
marital relations. Business activities may flourish in far off places 
after marriage. 

10th House: Status through wife. 

11th House: Gain from wife, development of sexual relations with 
friends after marriage. 

12th House: Cause for ill health of the partner, expenditure through 
partner, secret or unconventional marriage. 

Timing Marriage: 

Timing an event as per the analysis of the Rashi chart is awfully 
difficult and more often than not appears to be an exercise in vain. 
Rashi chart and the Navamsha chart (calculated by dividing the 
longitudes of the Ascendant and planets to determine the 
Navamsha signs) do not have the potential to specifically identify 
the particular nativity. The chart will appear to be identical for all 
those bom on that date within a particular span of time. Applications 
of yogas to declare results will also be equally misleading. To be 
honest, the analysis of these charts at best provides a very general 
assessment of the Nativity. However, the procedure to time the 
marriage is indicated below: 

1st Step: If marriage is promised, assess whether the marriage 
will take place early or late. It should be ascertained by 
noting the association of the 7* lord with other houses. 
Association with 5,7 and 11 indicates marriage at normal 
age. Association with 6 and 12 indicates abnormal delay 



Chapter 14: Analysing the Seventh House ■ Marriage 247 

(after 35 yrs). Association with 3rd and 7* indicates early 
marriage. Association with 1,4,6, 8,9,and 10 indicates 
marriage between 28 and 35 yrs. The rules prescribed 
by some traditional Astrologers are as follows: 

a. When Venus is in Kendra (1,4,7,10) and 7* lord 
is posited in any house owned by Saturn, aspected 
by a benefic, marriage age is 23 to 28. 

b. If 2nd lord is in 11th and 11th lord in 2nd, marriage 
will be between 16 and 25 years. 

c. When the 2nd house is occupied by Venus and 
7* lord is in 11th house, marriage is between 23 
and 28 years. 

d. When 7* house is occupied by Venus, Moon and 
Saturn, the marriage will not be possible before 
30 years of age. 

e. If the 7* lord or Venus is afflicted in birth chart or 
navamsa chart, marriage may be between 30 and 
33 years. 

2nd Step: Look for Dasa period lords which can cause for the 
results of 2,5,7 and 11 houses. The Bhukti lord should 
be connected with 7* house i.e. marriage will and should 
come off in the Bhukti period of that planet which is 
either placed in the 7* house, or aspects the 7* house 
or it can be lord of 7* placed in 2, 5,7 or 11. 7* house 
for timing is also considered with respect to Moon's or 
Venus position. 

3rd Step: Having decided the Dasa period check the transit of the 
Dasa period lords and also of Sun and Moon. No event 
fructifies unless transit is favourable. 



248 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

7 Ve 
^ Sal 5 jSju Me 

SlJ Ket 
a e Km 

Wo Ju,Su 
9 3 Ma,Mo 

Ra Ve Me X&t 
, 

10 13 2 
11 1 Ra Sat Lag 

Troubled Married Life - Analysis of Charts: 

Example 1: This is the chart of a native who suffered great 
humiliation after marriage. 

Step 1: Analysis of 7th house: No planet is posited in 7* house 
and no planet is aspecting 7* house. Pisces rising on the 7* house 
produces a frustration with opposite sex. It is a sign of detachment 
and sorrow. 

Step 2: Analysis of the 7th lord: Jupiter lord of the 7* house is 
in 11th house in its sign of exaltation. This promises marriage. 

Step 3: Analyse the influence of planets on the lord of 7th 

especially of the lords of 4*, 6*, 10* and 12* houses. Here, 
Saturn lord of 6 aspects lord of 7 from 2nd house. Sun lord of 
12th is in conjunction with lord of 7 in 11thhouse. This causes for 
disturbed married life. 

Step 4: Analyse Venus, the chief Karka of Marriage and Moon. 
Venus is placed in 10* house along with lord of 10. Moon is in 
11th house but under the malefic influence of lord of 6 Saturn and 
lord of 12 Sun and also Mars lord of 8 and in debilitation. 

Step 5: Analyse Ascendant and Ascendant Lord: Here 
Ascendant is free from any malefic influence. But Ascendant lord 
in 10 along with Venus and Ketu is under the malefic influence of 



Chapter 14: Analysing the Seventh House - Marriage 249 

Ra 
10 Ju 

Ma Me Su Ve 
Ke Sat 

Mo Lag 
Ma,Me 

Su 
Ju 
Ve Mo 
Ke 

Saturn who occupies Venus house. 

All this indicates the Native is destined to have troubles in his 
married life. 

Example 2: 

Step 1: Analyse the 7th house: Saturn occupies 7* house and 
Mars lord of 4 and Mercury lord of 6 and Sun lord of 8 in Saturn's 
sign aspect?* house. 

Step 2: Lord of 7* Moon is in 10* house in Venus sign and also 
in Kendra to Mars. Moon's own house is occupied by Saturn 
and aspected by Mars and Mercury. 

Thus both 7* house and its lord are under the influence of lord of 
6,4 and Saturn. This calls for disturbed married life. 

Step 3: No planet aspects or conjuncts 7* lord. 

Step 4: Venus, the chief Karka of Marriage is in the 11th house. 
Lord of 12 Jupiter afflicts it. Venus's own house is occupied by 
Rahu. 

Step 5: Analyse the Ascendant and its lord: Ascendant is 
afflicted by lord of 6,8 and 4 viz. Mercury, Sun and Mars. 
Ascendant lord in the sign Cancer is also under the influence of 
Sun, Mercury and Mars. 



250 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

All these cause for disturbed married life that has to end in divorce 
due to influence of lords of 4,6,10,12 on Ascendant and its lord; 
7* house and its lord, and Venus and Moon. 

Second Marriage: Let us see if it is promised or not. This is seen 
again from the relationship of 7th house and its lord; and Ascendant 
and its lord with 9* house. We also need to know the potential of 
the 9* house; and the potential of the lord of the 9* house. 

Here the 7* house and Ascendant maintain relationship with 9* 
house lord Mercury. The Ascendant lord aspects the 9* house. 
But the 7* house lord has no relation with 9* house or its lord. 
Moreover, the potential of the 9* house is weak due to its lord 
being conjunct with Mars and Sun being the lord of 4* (8* to 9* 
house) and 8* house(12th to 9* house) respectively. 

Thus there is only a remote chance for second marriage. 

Matching the Horoscope: 

Often an Astrologer is asked to match the horoscopes of a male 
and a female who want to marry and thus become life partners. 
The psychology behind this request from the clients is the belief 
that the destiny of an individual undergoes a transformation due to 
this alliance. This belief has gained strength because of the statistical 
analysis of the married life of couples that face health, financial, 
status and life hazards or who have gained in social & financial 
status and general level of prosperity. But this belief is basically in 
contradiction to the philosophy of Astrology. A native is destined 
to bear the fruits of his own Karma. His longevity, health, 
prosperity, and social status are governed by his own nativity. If 
the native is destined to have setbacks only after marriage, no 
amount of matching the horoscopes is going to prevent it. If he is 
destined to get promotion in his professional career after marriage, 



Chapter 14: Analysing the Seventh House - Marriage 251 

he will get it irrespective of the quality of matching of horoscopes 
arrived by Astrologers. Therefore, the matching of the horoscope 
should be resorted to detailed analysis of each individual's chart 
for health, longevity, potency, professional and financial status etc. 
The two natives will marry only if the Dasa periods of one at the 
time of marriage are the ruling planets (Ascendant lord, rising star 
lord, Moon sign lord, Moon's star lord) of the partner at the time 
of birth and vice-versa. Invariably the sign and the rising star lord 
of the 7* cusp will indicate the ruling planets of the partner in each 
horoscope. 

Many Vedic astrologers rely on a very simplistic system for 
matching horoscopes which is called the Koot method.In the Koot 
method the positions of Moons in both charts are compared by a 
set of eight/twelve criteria based on the position of Moons in 
particular Rashi and Nakshatra. This practice is highly defective. 
The charts of the natives approved on the basis of this method 
have shown very poor results.Married life of people were far from 
satisfactory. It is, therefore, emphasized that before approving the 
compatibility between two horoscopes it should be ensured that 
both charts are individually studied for heath status, longevity, 
financial status, procreative power and above all for the mental 
and physical compatibility between the two persons who intend 
to marry. 

Detailed procedure of matching the horoscope is dealt in 
the revised edition of my book "Kalamsa and Cuspal 
Interlinks" published by Sagar Publications, New Delhi, 
India 



Chapter 15 

Analysing the Fifth House 

The fifth house operates under the fixed- fire combination and it 
represents an individual's reaction to his past. Our ancients related 
this house to wisdom, religion, and traditional laws, intelligence, 
and intuitive perception of the future, socially accepted forms of 
courtship i.e. romantic affairs, progeny, sports and cultural activities, 
artistic and creative pursuits, speculation. 

The main aspects, which an astrologer is called upon to analyse in 
respect of the 5* house significations, can be listed as follows: 

1. Potency and procreation power of the native and aspects 
relating progeny. 

2. Intellectual capability and the attitude of the native. 

3. Success in sports and cultural activities. 

4. Gain or loss in speculation, gambling, races etc. 

5. Success or failure in romantic affairs. 

The promise in respect of the above aspects has to be seen from 
the 5* house, its lord,9* house (fifth from Fifth), its lord and the 
Karaka planet Jupiter for children, Karaka Mars for sports, 
Karaka Venus for romance and Mercury for intellectual capability. 



Chapter 15: Analysing the Fifth House 253 

What the 5lh cusp promises for progeny: 

To produce a child the native has to have not only the required 
potency but also the procreative power. This is determined as 
follows: 

Step 1: If the lord of the 5* house and the 5* house is free from 
any affliction. 

Step 2: The native will be able to produce a child if the lord of 
the 5* house is strong and is aspected by Jupiter and 
benefics. 

If the lord of the 5* house is related simultaneously to 4* and 
12* houses, it indicates loss of first conception. It is termed as 
abortion in case of female nativity. 

According to some Astrologers the man's strength for impregnation 
depends on the strength of Sun and the strength of semen on 
Venus. 

Timing Child birth: If the native is promised progeny, he/she will 
get the child during the joint period of the planets that are linked 
with houses 2,5 and 11. 

Sex of the Child: To be honest, this area needs still much research 
to provide a foolproof prediction. However, the various methods 
that are used are listed below: 

1. Analyse the planets that influence the 5* house and its lord. 
Influence of male Planets cause the birth of male children 
and the influence of female Planets may give rise to the birth 
of daughters. 

2. If lord of the 5* house is in male sign, and its depositor is 
also placed in male sign one gets a male child. 



254 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

3. Another method, which is used by some Astrologers, is 
that if the lord of the 5* house or the Nakshtara rising on 
fifth house is in Sun hora, one will get a male child. 

4. If Jupiter and its depositor is placed in male sign and it aspects 
the fifth house or its lord one gets male children. If Jupiter 
or its depositor is placed in female sign one gets daughters. 

Putra Dosha: The term means that the planetary positions in the 
horoscope are such that the native may not get a male child. 

According to some authorities the main reasons of Putra Dosha in 
a horoscope are: 

1. If Sun is positioned in the fifth house of the natal chart or in 
a debilitated position or positioned in the sixth, eighth and 
twelfth house from lagna it causes Putra dosha. 

2. If Moon is positioned in the fifth house, or debilitated or 
Rahu/Ketu in the twelfth house, the dosha happens. 

3. If Mars is positioned in the fifth house from lagna it may 
cause Putra dosha. 

4. If Mercury is positioned in the fifth house from lagna it may 
also cause Putra dosha. 

5. If Jupiter is positioned in the fifth house, the house of progeny 
or in sixth, eighth or twelfth house from lagna it causes Putra 
dosha. 

6. If Rahu and Ketu is positioned in fifth house, the Putra dosha 
happens. 

7. If the fifth house or its lord or the Karaka for progeny Jupiter 
are weak then also one may not get a male child. 

Promise for Twins: It is an important area that needs serious 
attention of the scholars doing research in the field of astrology. 



Chapter 15: Analysing the Fifth House 255 

The existing rules or guidelines do not promise much assistance to 
a genuine astrologer to declare the possibility of twins. Some of 
these rules are listed below: 

1. When there is intimate link between the lagna and the 3rd 

house, and its significatorMars and Mercury too is involved 
in the yoga, the birth of twins takes place. 

2. Some astrologers say that if the lord of the 5* house is 
Mercury or a planet that is placed in dual sign or in the 
constellation of a planet in dual sign, birth of twins take 
place. 

The use of such dictums is beset with more failures than with 
success. 

What the fifth cusp Promises for Love Affairs: 

1. , If the lord of the 5* house is related to houses 5,7, and 11 
and lord of the fifth house or the fifth house is not influenced 
by the lords of 4 or 6 or 10, the love affair may result in 
marriage. 

2. If the lord of the 5* house is related to 11th house or its 
lord but not related to 7* house or its lord then the person 
can only maintain relationship but it will not end in marriage 

3. If the fifth house or its lord is afflicted one cannot enjoy 
romantic affairs or we may say that the person will meet 
failures in romantic affairs. 

What the 5lh cusp Promises For Sports and Arts: 

To determine whether a native will achieve any success in sports 
and arts, we need to analyse the following cusps: 



256 True Astrology- "Basicand Traditional Concepts" 

1. Ascendant: If the lord of the Ascendant is related to the 
5* house and its lord one will have the desire to make use 
of the significations of the 5* house. This will be qualified 
or specified by the strength of the lord of the Ascendant, 
lord of the fifth house and also the strength of the fifth house. 
The absence of the relationship of the Ascendant with the 
5* house or its lord does not promise success in sports 
and arts. 

2. Eleventh Cusp: If the lord of the 11 * house maintains a 
relationship with the 5* house it will promise success to the 
native in the field of sports and arts subject to the condition 
that the lord of the 11 * house, lord of fifth house and the 
fifth house itself should not be afflicted. 

3. Sixth House: It is the house of competitions and victory 
over others. If the lord of the 6* house and the 6* house 
itself is strong, it promises the native success over others. 

4. Fifth Cusp: The fifth cusp has to be fortified. That is the 
lord of the 5* house should be connected to 1,3,5, band 
11 houses to indicate success in the field of sports and arts. 

Gain or Loss in Speculation etc: 

1. If the lord of the 5* house is related to 2nd house, and the 
lord of fifth house and the second house are not afflicted 
the person will gain in speculation etc. 

2. If the lord of the 5* house is related to 11th house or its 
lord and also to the 2nd and 6* house or their lords, the 
person will gain in speculation etc. 

3. If the lord of the 5* house is related to 2nd or 11 * house 
and also to houses 8 or 12 or their lords, the native will lose 
in speculation etc. 



Chapter 15: Analysing the Fifth House 257 

Let us try to see the application of what we have discussed in this 
chapter through an example. 

Example 1: Refer chart. Fig. 15.1 

It is the chart of a person who could never get a male child in his 
life. 

Lag 
Ju Mo 

Ke Su 
Ma 
Me 

Sa Ve 
Ra 

Fig 15.1 

Here we notice that the 5* house is occupied by female planets 
Venus, Mercury and Rahu. Mercury is doubly female because its 
own house is occupied by Moon. Lord of the 5* house is Sun 
who is placed in female sign Cancer and is afflicted by debilitated 
Mars. More over Sun is aspected by malefic Saturn from a female 
sign Capricorn. 

Jupiter the Karaka planet is placed in male sign Aries but its 
depositor Mars is debilitated in Cancer. More over Saturn from a 
female sign Capricorn aspects it. 

Example 2: Refer Fig 15.2 

This is the chart of a young man who got two sons. His first son 
was bom when he was running the period of Mars-Jupiter-Moon- 
Mercury-Satum. 



258 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Lag Sa 

Ve 
Ke 

Ra Su Mo 
Ma Me 

Ju 

Fig 15.2 

In this chart we find that the fifth lord Sun occupies its own sign 
Leo and is also associated with a male planet Mars. No doubt 
Moon and Mercury are also placed in the 5* house and this 
accounts for some delay in getting the child. 

The Karaka planet Jupiter is placed in its own sign Sagittarius. It 
casts its aspect on the 5* house. The 5* house is also free from 
the influence of Rahu and Ketu. Thus the chart promises the birth 
of sons. Dasa period lords are significator of 2,5 and 11. 

This gentleman is said to have a love affair that ended in marriage. 
We may notice that the lord of the fifth house Sun is placed in fifth 
house. Sun maintains relationship with the 7* house because it is 
associated with Moon who is the depositor of Venus the lord of 
the 7* house. Sun also aspects 11* house and thus establish 
relationship with 11th house. 

Example 3: Refer Fig 15.3 

This is claimed to be the chart of legendry cricketer Sunil Gavaskar. 
He took birth in Mumbai on July 10,1949at 20.42 hrs. 



Chapter 15: Analysing the Fifth House 259 

11 r Ra Mo Ma 
12 10 Me 
Ra Ju Su 

Ve 
1 

Lag 
Ju Sa 

2 4 
Mo Su 6 

3 Ve 5 Ke Ke 
Ma Me -SL 

Fig 15.3 

Here we notice that fifth house, the house of sports, is fortified by 
exalted Moon. Jupiter, from the Ascendant, aspects the fifth house. 
Saturn, the lord of the Ascendant also aspects the fifth house. 
Sixth house is fortified because Mercury the lord of the house 
occupies the house itself. Lord of the 11thhouse mars is placed in 
the sixth house, the house of completions. Mars provides the 
necessary courage and ensures victory over rivals. 



Chapter 16 

Analysing Horoscope for 

Educational Prospects 

Education, in the real sense, means a process of developing an 
integrated personality to enable the native to live in the society 
with respect However, today, education has become synonymous 
with qualification, the possession of a certificate or a degree. By 
this, we may not be able to call the great intellectual giants like 
Shakespeare, the educated persons. On the other hand, we call 
those who study the Shakespearean literature and obtain degrees 
as educated persons. A gardner who might not have even entered 
the gate of a school might know the secrets of Botany, which even 
the graduate of Botany, may not know. A village housewife may 
be able to cook delicious food, a rare variety of pickles and yet 
be a totally illiterate. Her expertise in cookery may even challenge 
the great expert writers of cookery books. Therefore, the study 
of the topic of Education from the natal horoscope of a person is 
an enigma in itself. The word education is derived from the Latin 
word e-duco meaning literally a leading out of something, which is 
already there deep within the student. 

In astrology, to analyse the Educational Prospects, we study the 
houses 1, 3, 4, 5, 9, IE However, the primary house for basic 
education is fourth and for higher education, it is 9* house. The 
detailed procedure of analysis is given below: 



Chapter 16: Analysing Horoscope for Educational Prospects 261 

Step 1: Study of the Ascendant: Aperson is destined to receive 
reactions from those houses with which the Ascendant 
maintains a connection. Thus for achieving qualification 
or the attendance of a school/college or an institution of 
learning, the Ascendant or its lord should establish a 
connection with 4* or 9* house. The potential of the 
Ascendant decides the ultimate potential of any other 
house. Thus the Ascendant and its lord should be strong 
enough to motivate the native to undergo the process of 
learning. 

Step 2: Study of the Third House: This house denotes one's 
mental inclination, performance specification, writing 
capability, communication skills, mental concentration and 
memory. Its study indicates the native's inclination for 
the subjects of study. The disposition of the lord of 3rd 

house, strength of the third house and the influence of 
planets on third house and its lord would indicate the 
subjects in which the native would specialize. It is also 
the house of courage and confidence. As such sign/star 
rising on the house, its lord and the planets positioned or 
aspecting the 3rd house or its lord will help us to determine 
whether the native is capable to compete or face 
examinations. The influence of planets on third house 
can be specified as follows: 

Moon: The native lacks boldness to take 
decisions. 

Saturn: The native is calculative, cautious, 
industrious, but lacks confidence, and 
develops the fault of forgetfulness. 



262 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Mercury: Dual mind (To be or not to be), but good 
memory. 

Sun, Mars: Gives courage and confidence. Jupiter 
in addition 

Jup, Venus: gives the power of concentration. 
Detailed significations of signs and 
planets have been given in respective 
chapters. 

Step 3: Study of Fourth House: This is the primary house for 
basic education. Analysis of this house will indicate: 

A. Whether the native will have formal education or 
not. 

B. The quality or excellence level likely to be achieved 
by the native. 

Analysis of the fourth house is carried out as follows: 

1. The sign/star rising on the 4th house. 

2. The planets placed in or aspecting fourth house. 

3. Strength of the lord of 4* house and the planets aspecting 
it 

4. If the lord of the 4* house is free from affliction from the 
lords of 8th house (12* to 9*) and 3rd house and 12* 
house, or if the lord of 4* house is not placed in these 
houses, then it indicates that the native has the potential for 
basic education. If the lord of the 4* house establishes a 
relationship with the 9* house, it indicates native's capacity 
to go in for higher studies. 



Chapter 16: Analysing Horoscope for Educational Prospects 263 

Step 4: Study of Fifth House: This house shows the native's 
intellectual capacity, his power of comprehension or 
understanding. A strong 5* house and its lord is a must 
for achieving success and excellence in higher education. 

Step 5: Study of Ninth House: This is the house for higher 
educational pursuits. The essential conditions for higher 
education are: 

a. Fourth lord should maintain a connection with 9* 
house. 

b. Ninth house and its lord should be strong. 

c. Ninth lord should maintain connection with 11 * 
house, 5* house and?* house (9*, 3rd, and 11th 

from 9* (the houses which cause multiplications 
of the significations of the house) 

d. Ninth lord should not be posited in 4, 8, or 12, 
houses (4 is 8* to 9*, 8IS 12thto 9*, andl2* is 
bad for the Ascendant) 

e. 8* or 12th house lords should not afflict Ninth 
house. 

Step 6: Study of Eleventh House: This is the house of fulfillment 
of our desires. If this house or its lord establishes a relation 
with 4* or 9* house, this will indicate the native's 
success in basic or higher education. 

Step?: Analyse the potential of the planets Jupiter and Mercury, 
which are considered to be the karakas (significators) 
of education. They should be strong by house 
connections. Moon being the ruler of the 4* house in 
the natural zodiac and also represents Mind of the native 



264 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

calls for special attention. Connection of these Planets 
with 4* house or its lord, or with Ascendant or its lord 
cause for success in education. 

Subjects of Study: In the modem India, a child who seeks 
admission in a school has no choice for subjects up to a certain 
standard. He has to study the subjects that are offered by the 
school. Thus sometimes we find that in spite of a strong 4* house 
and its lord, the performance of the child is not up to his level of 
expectation. If the choice is given to the child, what subjects he 
will study is indicated below: 

A. The planets and the houses they rale that establish a 
relation with the fourth house and its lord will indicate 
subjects of study. Sign appearing on the house where 
the planet is placed should also be taken into 
consideration. 

B. The same procedure is to be followed for selecting the 
subjects for higher study taking the 9* house in place of 
4* house. This is detailed below: 

Planet Subjects of Study 
establishing 
link with 
4th/9th house 

Moon Textiles, chemical engineering, psychology, water 
engineering, hydraulics, music, marketing, violin 
veena and Political science. 

Sun Medicines, chemistry, astrology, geography. 

Mars Mechanical & civil engineering, surgery, 
structural design, physics, martial arts, military 
science. 



Chapter 16: Analysing Horoscope for Educational Prospects 265 

Mercury Mathematics, engineering, astrology, puranic 
studies, logic, journalism, astrology, 
advertisement, public speaking. 

Venus Chemistry, electronics, computer agriculture, 
veterinary, chemical engineering, textiles, naval 
science, poetry, music, foreign literature, 
sexology, nephrology, ophthalmology. 

Jupiter Law, medicine, military science, administration, 
instructional techniques, philosophy, religion, 
politics, international law, business management, 
banking, astrology. 

Saturn Geology, petrochemical engg, refinery 
techniques, civil military engg, electronics, labor r 
law, black magic, industrial engg. 

Rahu & Ketu Radiology, photography, space science, and the 
subjects as per the planets they represent. 

House lords Subjects of Study 
who maintain 
relationship 
with 4th/9th 

house 

T' house Brain, head, psychiatry, yoga. 

2nd house Sound engg, linguistics, economics, 
mathematics,dental and ophthalmology. 

3 rd house Electrical, electronics, communication, compute 
science, printing technology, physics, ENT, 
neurology, journalism. 



266 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

4* house Agriculture engineering, automobile engineering 
mechanical engineering, machinery, civil 
engineering, geography, home-science, 
cardiology, industrial engineering 

5* house Architecture, film technology, sports, atomic 
energy, nuclear science, arts, music, paediatric, 
gynaecology, obstetrics. 

6* house Textiles, chemistry, biology, medicines, law, 
radiology. 

7* house Public administration, business management, 
International law. 

8* house Surgical equipments, sanitary engineering, 
history, zoology, study of secret parts, urology, 
mining engineering 

9* house Aeronautical engineering, space technology, 
Sanskrit philosophy, law, colorectal surgeon, 
genetic disorders. 

10* house Management, Government policies, production 
technology, professional diseases 

11th house Polymer technology, commerce, gynaecology, 
obstetrics. 

12th house Foreign languages, research criminology. 

Let us explain the use of the above method to analyse the 
Educational Prospects through the example. 

Example: Ref the fig. 16.1. Chart of a person with the qualification 
B.Sc, BE, and MA (English). 



Chapter 16: Analysing Horoscope for Educational Prospects 267 

Su 
, 7 Ve Ju Sa 

10 0 0 Ke 
fia 

Ma- 
n 

Wer 5 

Wfl izXf 5 4 
Ka ^ 1 \ 

Ju Sa 3 Mo Ma Lag Ra 

Fig. 16.1 

Step 1: Analyse the Ascendant for its connection with 4* or 9* 
house. 

Here the lord of the Ascendant Mars is in conjunction 
with the lord of the nineth house Moon in second house 
in the sign of Jupiter. Mars also aspects the 9* house. 
Mars itself is under the aspect of Jupiter who is conjunct 
with lord of 4 Saturn. It promises high education. 

Step 2: Study of the 3rd House: Third House itself is free from 
any malefic influence and gets strength from its lord who 
aspects this house while in conjunction with Jupiter and 
getting trine aspect of Mars conjunct Moon. This indicates 
that the native is diligent and would like to perform as 
per the significations of Capricorn, which rises on the 
third house and also of Saturn and Jupiter. 

Step 3: Analysis of the 4th House: Aquarius rises on the Fourth 
House. Mercury the lord of 8 and 11 occupies it. No 
other planet has direct influence on this house. Presence 
of 8* house lord in 4* house is indicative of upsets in 
Basic Education but Mercury also having the lordship 
of 11th house would enable the native to achieve success 
in his educational pursuits in the end. 



268 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Lord of 4* House Saturn is in debilitation in the 6* 
house but placed with Jupiter the lord of 2 and 5 and 
also receiving the trine aspect of the lagan lord Mars 
conjunct with the 9th lord Moon. Native has, therefore, 
to put in hard labour under the stamina, courage and 
confidence provided by Jupiter and Mars to achieve 
success in education. 

Step 4: Study of 5th House: Pisces, the sign ruled by Jupiter 
rises on the fifth house. Sun lord of 10, Venus lord of 7 
and 12 and Ketu occupies this house. This house and 
the planets there in are in Kendra from lagan lord Mars 
and 9* lord Moon. Venus is said to be in its sign of 
exaltation. All this indicates that the native possesses the 
intellectual capability to undergo the process of higher 
learning in the fields controlled by the planets Sun, Venus, 
Jupiter and Ketu. Jupiter is conjoined with Saturn the 
lord of 4* house and is receiving the trine aspect of 
lagan lord Mars conjunct with ninth lord Moon. 

Step 5: Study of 9* House: This house is ruled by Moon who 
is placed in 2nd house conjunct with lagan lord Mars 
and aspected by Jupiter lord of 2 and 5. Mars, the lagna 
lord, aspects the 9* house. This promises that native 
will succeed in his higher educational pursuits though with 
hard labour. 

Step 6: Study of 11th House: Virgo rises in the 11th house and 
Rahu occupies it. Sun lord of 10 and Venus lord of 7 
and 12 aspects it. Its lord Mercury is placed in the 4* 
house, the house of education. 

Rahu is placed here and Venus the lord of 12* house 
aspects this house. This does indicate problem in 



Chapter 16: Analysing Horoscope for Educational Prospects 269 

educational pursuits. But its lord's placement in 4* house 
ensure achievement of native's desire in the fields of 
education especially in the fields controlled by Mercury 
(lord of 8 and 11), Sun (lord of 10 in 5) and Venus (lord 
of 7 & 12 in 5). 

Step 7: Moon has acquired the lordship of 9* house and is 
placed in 2nd house where Sagittarius rises. It is also 
conjunct with lagna lord and is aspected by Jupiter, the 
lord of 2nd house. 

Mercury has acquired the lord ship of 8* & 11th houses. 
It is placed in the 4* house where Aquarius rises. 
Mercury thus indicates the success in education through 
straggles. 

Jupiter is placed in the 6* house along with the lord of 
the 4* house and in trine to lagna lord. 

All this indicates that the native is capable to undergo the process 
of learning but he will have to put in hard labour. His educational 
prospects also indicate that his education may be with breaks. 

Let us now analyse why the native studied science subjects up to 
graduation, then telecommunication engineering and post 
graduation in foreign language English. 

Subjects for Basic Education: Science Graduation andB.E. 
(communication). 

Mercury occupies 4* house. Saturn, lord of 4* house occupies 
6* house and conjuncts Jupiter lord of 2nd and 5* in 6* house. 

Mercury: Mathematics, Communication Engineering. 

Saturn: Chemistry (6* house), Physics and Communication (lord 
of 3rd house), Electronics. 



270 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Jupiter: Chemistry (6* house), Mathematics (2nd house). Jupiter's 
own house is occupied by Sun and Venus. They transfer their 
influence (chemistry, electronics) to Jupiter. 

This justifies the native's educational prospects at basic level. 

Let us see why the native, being a science and telecommunication- 
engineering graduate should go for post graduation in English 
language. 

Ninth house lord is conjoined with lagna lord in 2nd house ruled 
by Jupiter who aspects its own house Sagittarius. Jupiter is lord of 
9* and 12th house in the natural zodiac. Jupiter's own house is 
occupied by exalted Venus lord of 7 and 12. Thus the lord of the 
9* house Moon is under the influence of planets Jupiter, Venus 
and the sign Sagittarius. This justifies his studying foreign language. 



Chapter 17 

Analysing the 

Tenth House- Profession 

The Tenth House represents profession, honour, rewards, and 
the quality of leadership, karma of the soul, government sendee, 
administrative jobs, and achievement in the material world. In this 
chapter we will discuss how to analyse the 10* house to determine 
the native's profession. 

When we analyse the horoscope to study the profession of a 
person, we need to answer the following two sets of questions. 

Set 1. Here the main questions are: 

a. Will the person do a paid job or carry out bis 
independent or partnership business or live without 
a professional status? 

b. Will he attain any status (financial, administrative 
or social) through profession? 

c. Will he continue the same job/business throughout 
his life or does it promise diversifications, 
development etc? 

d. When will he start earning through service or 
business? 

e. Wll the native be able to carry out his professional 
activities smoothly or face set-backs? 



272 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Set 2. Here the main questions are: 

1. In which organizations (viz the education 
department, health deptt., railways, 
communication deptt., banking and financial 
institutions etc.) the native will serve? 

2. AMU he be an industrialist, manufacturer, a trader, 
commission agent, cloth merchant, a hotelier, a 
shipping magnate, a publisher, street merchant, 
etc.? 

In short we need to find out the organization in which the person 
will have his professional activities to perform, the nature of the 
products he will deal etc. 

In addition to the above two sets of questions, there are other 
supplementary questions, relating service/business that we need 
to answer. For example, questions relating service matters include 
transfer, promotion, suspension, termination, retirement, 
reinstatement, change of service profiles etc. Similarly questions 
relating business may include products that will fetch more gains, 
change of business place etc. 

Houses That Need be Analysed for Profession 

To provide answers to the basic two sets of questions we need to 
analyse the following houses. 

1. Ascendant: Natural inclination of the native needs to match 
with the potential of the 10th cusp. If the Ascendant or its 
lord establishes strong relationship with 6* and the 10* 
house, the person is more likely to be a service person. If 
the ascendant is strongly connected with 7* and the 10* 
house, he is likely to adopt business as his profession. Strong 
connection with 5* and 9* without having any connection 



Chapter 17: Analysing the Tenth House- Profession 273 

with 6,7, and 10 indicates that the native is likely to live his 
life without any professional status. For the success in service 
or business the Ascendant and its lord should be strong as 
the potential of any house is subordinate to the potential of 
the Ascendant. 

2. Tenth House: It is the principle house for analysing 
profession. It forms the apex of the materialistic triplicity; 
the other two houses, being second and sixth. Strong 
connection of 10* house with 6 indicates service as 
profession and with 7 as private business. 

3. Second House: The house of wealth or it indicates the 
earning capacity of the native. 

4. Sixth House: This is the house of service, labour, loans, 
impediments and oppositions; it is also called the house of 
gain being 12thto the 7*, which represents competitors. 
Loss of opponents is the gain of the native. 

5. Seventh House: It is generally considered as the house to 
represent private business, trade and social relationships. 

6. Eleventh House: The strength of this house and its lord 
and its connection with Ascendant and 10* House 
represents the success of the native in his profession. 

7. Fourth and Ninth House: This helps to determine the 
education of the native. 

Procedure to Determine Profession 

The analysis of the horoscope to determine Profession of a native 
is done as follows: 

Step 1: Analyse the sign rising on the Ascendant and the planets 
influencing Ascendant 



274 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Step2: Analyse strength of Ascendant lord and the planets 
influencing it 

Step 3: Sign rising on the 10th house and the planets posited or 
aspecting 10th house. 

Step 4: Strength of 10* lord and its placement in a sign and 
house in a horoscope and houses aspected by 10th lord. 

Step 5: Analyse the significations of planets that play part in 
deciding profession as per their sign and house position. 

Step 6: Analyse the influence of Dasa periods. 

We have already indicated the significations of the planets, signs 
and houses relating profession in respective chapters. We will 
analyse few charts to explain the application of the above 
procedure. 

Example 1: Legal Profession: Fig. 17.1 

This is the chart of a lawyer. The planets that indicates legal 
profession are Jupiter (governs law), Saturn (justice, independent 
and impartial), Mercury (governs reason, argumentation, 
communication - written or oral), Mars (regulates and provides 
energy for argumentation) and Venus (for assessment merits and 
demerits analysis). 

Signs that represent legal profession are Gemini, Libra, Sagittarius, 
andAquarius. 

Houses that represent legal profession are sixth house, 9* house. 



Chapter 17: Analysing the Tenth House- Profession 275 

10 Mo 
Ve Me Ra Jup 

Ma 
Su Sat 

12 
Mo Ra Ket 

Ve 

Lag 
Su Me Ma 

Jup Sat Ket 

Fig. 17.1 

Step 1: Sagittarius, the sign of law rises on the Ascendant and 
Sun lord of 9* house; the house that represents legal 
profession is posited in the Ascendant. 

Step 2: Jupiter, the ruler of the Ascendant and karaka for legal 
profession is posited in the 6* house, which represents 
legal profession. The Planet Mercury, lord of 10th house, 
aspects Jupiter. All this represents that the native's mental 
setup is attuned to legal profession. 

Step 3 ; Mercury, the planet for legal profession rules the sign 
& 4 that rises on the Tenth House. Jupiter lord of Ascendant 

is posited in the 6* house, aspects 10* house, and its 
lord. Jupiter itself is under the influence of Mars (conjunct 
with Saturn) who aspects it from the 11thhouse. Mars 
own house is occupied by Mercury the lord of 10*. 
Rahu, being in Pisces represents Jupiter. It aspects the 
10th house. All these indicate strong prospects for legal 
profession. 

Step 5: Planets and houses that make connection with Tenth 
house and 10* lord. 

a. Jupiter, lord of 1 and 4 placed in 6. This indicates 
dignified legal profession. 



276 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

b. Rahu that represents Jupiter aspects 10th house 
from the 4* house. 4* house ensures stability in 
profession. 

c. Moon lord of 8 in 4 aspects 10* house. This is 
indicative of mental agony in professional career. 

Step 6: Why law as a subject of education? 

Sun lord of Nine in Sagittarius and under the influence 
of exalted Saturn in Libra is indicative of the native 
choosing law as a subject of higher studies. 

Step 7: Service or Private practice: 

Ascendant lord Jupiter is in 6 and Mercury lord of 10 
aspects 6* house. Venus the planet of making 
assessment of merits and demerits rules the 6* and the 
ll^house.Itis placed in the second house-the house of 
earning. Venus's own house is occupied by Saturn the 
planet of Justice. All this shows that the native has to 
earn through service in legal profession. Mercury's 
placement in 12* house is indicative of native's making 
foreign trips in connection with his profession or a 
probable change in his professional career. 

Example 2: Medical Profession. Ref Fig. 17.2 

Planets that rale over the medical profession are Sun, Mars, 
Mercury, Jupiter and Ketu. 

Leo, Virgo, Scorpio and Pisces and houses 6,8,10,12rale over 
this profession. 



Chapter 17: Analysing the Tenth House Profession 277 

9 \ 7 ^ Mo Ra 
10 8 6 

Ket Jup Su 
Me 

11 5 Sa 
Mar Ve 

Mar 
" Sun Ve 

12 £ 
Ra Mer 

-"l Sat Lag 
Mo ^ 3 Ket Jup 

Fig 17.2 

Step 1: Analysis of Ascendant: Scorpio, the sign of doctor rises 
on the Ascendant. Ketu is posited there and Mars its 
lord aspects it from the 10th house. 

Step 2: Lord of Ascendant Mars is also the lord of 6* house 
and is in the Tenth House conjuct with lord of 12th house 
Venus. 

Step 3: Analysis of 10* House: Leo the sign of doctor rises on 
the 10th cusp. Mars lord of 1 and 6 and Venus lord of 7 
and 12 are posited there. Mars own house is occupied 
by Moon the lord of 9* house where we find lord of 10 
Sun and lord of 11 Mercury along with lord of 3 and 4 
Saturn. 

Step 4: 10* lord Sun is conjoined with Mercury lord of 8 and 
11 and Saturn lord of 3 and 4. 

Step 5: Venus in 10* house being lord of 12* house, the house 
of hospitals indicates that the native may be a gastro- 
entremologist.Mars lord of 1,6 in 10* is indicative of a 
dignified medical profession. Connection of 6* house 
and Mars represent the profession dealing with diseases 
relating to the lower part of the abdomens. 



278 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Mercury lord of 8* and 11th conjoining lord of 10 
suggests dealing with problems relating secret parts and 
general phy sicion. 

Saturn lord of 3 and 4 conjoins lord of 10 Sun and also 
aspects 6* house. Saturn is significator of chronic 
diseases, and being lord of 3 and 4 is indicating lungs, 
chest. 

Step 6: Analysing reasons for Medical Education: 

Lord of 9* house is in the 6* house. 

Mercury who is lord of 8th house occupies 9th house. 

Sun the significator of medicine is in the 9* house. 

Promise of higher education is already indicated by the 
placement of lord of 4 in 9. Lord of 9 is placed in the 
10* sign or house from its own house. Ninth lord's 
placement in 6* house also indicates higher education 
in medicine and related to Service. 

Step 7: Service or Private Practice: 

Lord of 6* house is placed in the 10* house. Similarly 
the lord of 7 Venus is in 10*. Lord of 2nd house Jupiter 
is in the 11th house. Since Mars is also the lord of the 
Ascendant, the chances of the native to achieve 
excellence in profession through service are more 
prominent. Later on the native may carry on private 
practice. He may even earn through private practice 
secretively while in service (Venus also lord of 12th house 
and Jupiter aspects 7* house) 



Chapter 17: Analysing the Tenth House- Profession 279 

Example 3: Air Pilot. Ref Fig. 17.3 

Planets connected to this profession are Mercury, Venus, and 
Saturn. 

Signs & houses that rale over this profession are Gemini, Libra, 
Aquarius, and 3rd, 9* and 12* houses. 

Moon Sat Mo Lag 
Rg Sat Jup 
van Jim 

Ket 
Sun 
Mar Ra 

Ven 
Mer 11 Kat 

Mer Sun 
10 Mar 

Fig. 17.3 

Step 1: Analysis of Ascendant: Gemini rises on the Ascendant 
and Jupiter lord of 7 and 10 are posited in the Ascendant. 
The native is destined to achieve status through 
profession. Gemini rising is indicative of Pilot as a possible 
profession. 

Step 2: Lord of Ascendant Mer is in Libra and is placed in the 
5* house. Jupiter placed in Gemini aspects it. Mercury's 
own house is occupied by Sun lord of 3 and Mars lord 
of 6 and 11. 

Thus Ascendant lord is under the influence of signs, 
planets and houses, which further accentuates the native's 
inclination to adopt Pilot as a profession. 

Step 3: Analysis of 10th House: Pisces rise on the 10* house. 
It is aspected by Sun lord of 3 whose own house is 



280 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

occupied by Venus. Mars, lord of 6 and 11 also aspects 
10* house. Mars own house is aspected by Mercury in 
Libra. 

Step 4: 10* lord Jupiter is in Ascendant in Gemini. The lord of 
Ascendant Mercury itself is in Libra. 

Steps 3 and 4 clearly points out that the native will choose 
Pilot as a profession. 

Step 5: Sun's aspect on 10* house indicates that the native's 
professional activities may involve travels. Mars as lord 
of 6 and 11 points out the native's achievement in 
professional activities through service. 

Lord of 2nd Moon in 12 along with Saturn lord of 9 
indicates earning through overseas travel. 

Example 4: Vocal Musician reference Fig. 17.4 

Planets that rule over the profession of Vocal Musician are: 

Venus: It knows how to magnetize, fascinate and please others; 
it is symbolic of arts and music. 

It rales over the second sign Taurus and throat. 

Mercury: It rules over the third house in the natural Zodiac. It 
gives a high degree of intelligence and taste for poetry, drama. 

Sun: Being lord of the 5* house in the natural zodiac it gives a 
taste for the cultivation of fine arts and promoting musical talents. 

Moon: It is said, "Moon is a bom medium, spiritist, psychic, 
actor, and actress". It provides the necessary sensibility and 
sensitivity to the native to appreciate the subtleties of arts and 
music. 



Chapter 17: Analysing the Tenth House- Profession 281 

Mars: It is known for boldness, confidence and courage. Its 
association with Venus improves the dexterity and boldness and 
removes stage fear. 

Signs: The chief signs that govern vocal music are Taums, Gemini, 
Leo, Libra, and Aquarius. 

Houses: The chief houses whose lords when connected to the 
10th house or its lord represent developments of music talent are 
2, 3, and 5. 

Let us examine the chart of Fig. 17.4. This is the chart of avery 
famous woman singer. 

Ra Ra Lag 
Jup 

Mo Jup 12 
Mo 

Ven 
Ven 

Sun 10 Me 
Sat Ket Sun 

Me Ket Mar Sat Mar 
Fig. 17.4 

Step 1: Analysis of the Ascendant: Taurus rises on the 
Ascendant. Jupiter lord of 8 and 11 is posited in the 
Ascendant. Jupiter's own house is occupied by Saturn 
lord of 9 & 10. Mars in Libra conjoined with lord of 2 
and 5 aspects the Ascendant. 

Thus the Ascendant is under the influence of planets Mars 
in Libra and Jupiter in Taurus that provide the native 
necessary courage and confidence to develop and 
expand her artistic talent of vocal music without any stage 
fear. 



282 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Step 2: Lord of Ascendant is in a Kendra in Leo without any 
affliction. It aspects the 10* house. 

This is also a positive signal that shows the native's bent 
up of mind to adopt profession related to Venus i.e. 
Music. 

Step 3: Analysis of 10th House: Aquarius the airy sign rises 
on the Ascendant and its lord aspects this house thus 
boosting the potential of the 10* house. Venus aspects 
the 10* house and its depositor Sun is placed in the 5* 
house.. 

Step 4: 10* lord Saturn aspects the 2nd and the 5* house. This 
shows why the native adopted her Profession as a singer. 

Step 5: Planets and the houses that establish relationship with 
the 10th house and its lord are: 

Sun in the 5* house is aspected by Saturn the lord of 
10. 

Venus lord of 1 and 6 is placed in Leo in the 4* house 
and aspects the 10* house. 

Saturn aspects the 2nd and the 5* houses ruled by 
Mercury. 

Moon's placement in the 3rd house in Cancer is fortified 
to allow the native to develop artistic talent with the 
desired sensitivity and sweetness. 

All the above factors cause for the native to be a famous 
singer. 



Chapter 17: Analysing the Tenth House- Profession 283 

Example 5: Astrologer: 

Planets that we need to examine for a person to be a proficient 
Astrologer are Jupiter (lord of 9* house- the higher mind and 
12* house- the house of occult knowledge in the natural Zodiac) 
Saturn -the planet of concentration; Mercury, the planet of reason 
and intelligence; Moon- the mind and the ruler of the 4* house in 
the natural Zodiac. (4* house is the house of education); Mars 
provides the necessary courage and confidence to make 
predictions. 

Houses that need to be considered are 2, 5, 9, and 12 i.e. if the 
10* house and its lord establish relation with these houses or their 
lords, a person may adopt astrology as a profession. 

Let us examine the chart ofFig. 17.5.This is the chart ofapracticing 
Astrologer. 

"XSuMe Ket v 
SatX. V 7 Jup Ra 
Va toX 0 6 
Wa Mo 

X 11 5 
Sa 
Ve 

2 Ma 
4 

>X 3 Su 
1 Me Lag Mo 

Ra Ket 

Fig 17.5 

Step 1: Here Ascendant rises in S corpio and Jupiter in Pisces 
aspects it from the 5* house. There is no other influence. 

Step 2: Ascendant lord Mars is placed in 3rd house, the house 
of courage and confidence. It is conjoined by Saturn, 
lord of 3 and 4 (Concentration and basic education), 
and Venus -the planet of artistic skills and lord of 7 and 
12th (the house of occult science). 



284 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Step 3: Leo rises on the 10* House. Leo rales the 5* house in 
the natural Zodiac. Mars, the Ascendant lord conjunct 
with Saturn and Venus aspects it from 3rd house. The 
native will achieve name and fame in his professional 
carrier with courage and self-efforts. 

Step 4: Lord of the 10th house Sun is placed in second house 
along with Mercury in the sign Sagittarius mled by Jupiter. 
Jupiter itself is placed in the 5* house. 

This indicates that the lord of the house of profession 
has established relationship with the 2 & 5 and also the 
planet Mercury. All this indicates native's earning through 
Astrology. 

Step 5: Jupiter in the 5* house in the sign Pisces aspects the 9* 
house, 11th house and the Ascendant. Jupiter also rules 
the 2nd house, which is occupied by Sun the lord of the 
house of profession and Mercury the planet of Astrology. 
Thus the fifth house lord has established relationship with 
the relevant houses 2,5,9,10, indicating that the native 
will use artistic skills and astrology to carry out his 
professional activities. 

Mars, the Ascendant lord has established relationship 
with the 9* (by its aspect) and the 12* house (by 
conjunction with Venus the lord of 12). This indicates 
love for artistic skills and astrology. Saturn's conjunction 
with Mars lord of Ascendant and Venus the lord of 
the 12th and its aspect on Jupiter and fifth house, 9* 
house and 12* house further indicate the native's 
inclination to astrology. 



Chapter 18: 

Navamsa and Its Significance 

Navamsa chart has acquired great significance in Indian Astrology. 
Some says that the Navamsa chart is perhaps our true geniture- 
not a 2nd one-or at least it should be closely measured with the 
natal chart. It is, infact, considered as a karma chart because of 
the number 9 used for its calculation. The figure 9 in Tarot is under 
the domain of Saturn and not Mars. The figure 9 symbolizes "The 
Hermit." or "The Seeker of Truth". The planet Saturn is considered 
to be the karmic planet. The birth chart is only intended to show 
the Zodiacal emplacements of planets in different signs and also in 
the Mundane Sphere (houses) at the moment of birth. The 
Navamsa chart is considered to be more intimate and personal 
chart, because the Navamsa longititudes are karmic, and thus 
depicts the true destiny of the individual by means of mutual aspects 
subsisting between the planets, which are frequently not at all 
apparent in the birth chart. According to C. Fagan, "Navamsa is a 
sexascopic chart... our sexual tendencies, and activities are better 
seen through it". For example Navamsa Moon, Navamsa Jupiter 
and Navamsa Venus, all in Scorpio, render a person very sexy, 
glamorous anc^impressive with a deep inclination for luxurious 
and fine things. 

Development of Nakshatra and Navamsa Theory 

Astrology is, at bottom, a criticism of life. The horoscope is a 
portrait which depicts how the individual is going to lead his life. 



286 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

No two human beings are alike in the universe. The horoscope of 
each individual has thus to be unique. The Astrological System 
based on the analysis of the Rashi Chart fails to account for this 
because of the following: 

1. Potential and Promise of each house is judged on the basis 
of the Sign rising on the house and the strength of its lord. 
This remains the same for all the persons bom on a day 
within approximately two hours. 

2. Planets behaviour is delineated as per their accidental and 
essential dignities, aspects and Shad Bala strengths, yogas 
etc. which again are not going to show any significant change 
within two hours. 

3. Results of Dasa periods are declared as per the significations 
of planets, their lordships, occupation, aspects, afflictions, 
and the yogas they form. The results, in fact will and should 
be the same for all persons bom on a day within two hours. 

Nakshatra Concept: 

The ancients considered that the delineation of a chart as per the 
rising Sign on each house and the modification of behaviour of 
planets as per their Sign position, more often than not give results 
which are contrary to what happens to the native. It was, thus, 
decided to divide the Zodiac into 27 parts, each equal to 13 deg. 
20 min. It was called a Nakshatra. Each Nakshatra was allotted 
the mlership of a planet in the same sequence in which the Dasa 
periods in Vimsottari Dasa are allotted. In Nakshatra concept the 
significations of the house are influenced by the Nakshatra rising 
on the house. The analysis of the horoscope was done on the 
basis of the following: 



Chapter 18: Navamsa and Its Significance 287 

1. The Nakshatra rising on the house was given preference 
over the Sign. The planets influencing the house indicate 
Promise or Potential of the house. 

2. Planets behaviour was determined as per their placements 
in the Nakshatras rather than the Signs. 

The characteristics of Nakshatra for various aspects like physical 
and mental characteristics of the native, profession, sickness etc. 
were written synthesizing the attributes of the planets ruling the 
Sign and Nakshatra lord vis-a-vis the houses they rule in the Natural 
Zodiac. For example, the characteristics of Bharani will be under 
Mars and Venus and the houses over which they have the ruler 
ship in the Natural Mundane Sphere. 

Navamsa Concept: 

The Nakshatra division also did not provide satisfactory results. 
The Zodiac was then further Sub divided. Each Nakshatra was 
divided into 4 parts, each of 3 degrees 20 minutes. It was called a 
Pada, or Charan or Quarter. Each Quarter was allotted the lordship 
of a planet as per the following scheme. 

Starting with 0 degree Aries and the Nakshatra Ashwini the lordship 
of the quarters were in the following sequence. 

Nakshatra Ist 2nd 
3rd 4th 

quarter quarter quarter quarter 

Ashwini Mars Venus Mer Moon 
(Aries) (Taurus) (Gemini) (Cancer) 

Bharani Sun Mer Venus Mars 
(Leo) (Virgo) (Libra) (Scorpio) 

Krittika Jupiter Saturn Saturn Jupiter 
(Sagittarius) (Capricorn) (Aquarius) (Pisces) 



288 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Nakshatra Ist 2 3rd 4th 

quarter quarter quarter quarter 

Rohini Mars Venus Mer Moon 
(Aries) (Taurus) (Gemini) (Cancer) 

Mrigshira Sun Mer Venus Mars 
(Leo) (Virgo) (Libra) (Scorpio) 

Ardra Jupiter Saturn Saturn Jupiter 
(Sagittarius) (Capricorn) (Aquarius) (Pisces) 

Punarvasu Mars Venus Mer Moon 
(Aries) (Taurus) (Gemini) (Cancer) 

Pushya Sun Mer Venus Mars 
(Leo) (Virgo) (libra) (Scorpio) 

Ashlesha Jupiter Saturn Saturn Jupiter 
(Sagittarius) (Capricorn) (Aquarius) (Pisces) 

Magha Mars Venus Mer Moon 
(Aries) (Taurus) (Gemini) (Cancer) 

Poorva Sun Mer Venus Mars 
Phalguni (Leo) (Virgo) (Libra) (Scorpio) 

Uttara Jupiter Saturn Saturn Jupiter 
Phalguni (Sagittarius) (Capricorn) (Aquarius) (Pisces) 

Hasta Mars Venus Mer Moon 
(Aries) (Taurus) (Gemini) (Cancer) 

Chitra Sun Mer Venus Mars 
(Leo) (Virgo) (Libra) (Scorpio) 

Swati Jupiter Saturn Saturn Jupiter 
(Sagittarius) (Capricorn) (Aquarius) (Pisces) 

Vishakha Mars Venus Mer Moon 
(Aries) (Taurus) (Gemini) (Cancer) 

Anuradha Sun Mer Venus Mars 
(Leo) (Virgo) (Libra) (Scorpio) 



Chapter 18: Navamsa and Its Significance 289 

Nakshatra Ist 2nd 
3rd 4th 

quarter quarter quarter quarter 

Jyeshtha Jupiter Saturn Saturn Jupiter 
(Sagittarius) (Capricorn) (Aquarius) (Pisces) 

Moola Mars Venus Mer Moon 
(Aries) (Taums) (Gemini) (Cancer) 

Poorva - Sun Mer Venus Mars 
-shada (Leo) (Virgo) (Libra) (Scorpio) 

Uttara - Jupiter Saturn Saturn Jupiter 
-shada (Sagittarius) (Capricorn) (Aquarius) (Pisces) 

Shravana Mars Venus Mer Moon 
(Aries) (Taums) (Gemini) (Cancer) 

Dhani- Sun Mer Venus Mars 
- shtha (Leo) (Virgo) (Libra) (Scorpio) 

Satbhisha Jupiter Saturn Saturn Jupiter 
(Sagittarius) (Capricorn) (Aquarius) (Pisces) 

Poorva - Mars Venus Mer Moon 
- bhadra (Aries) (Taums) (Gemini) (Cancer) 

Uttara- Sun Mer Venus Mars 
- bhadra (Leo) (Virgo) (Libra) (Scorpio) 

Revati Jupiter Saturn Saturn Jupiter 
(Sagittarius) (Capricorn) (Aquarius) (Pisces) 

Navamsa Chart: 

It was expected by our ancients that the Navamsa Chart should 
express the following: 

1. The Nakshatra Quarter in which the Ascendant and other 
houses rise at the time of birth. 



290 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

2. The Nakshatra Quarter in which each planet transits at the 
time of birth. 

However, in the present days the Navamsa chart is cast as follows: 

1. Navamsa Ascendant is calculated by dividing the longitude 
of the Ascendant degree in the Rashi Chart by 9 and the 
quarter of the Nakshatra it rales, is found. The ruler of the 
quarter indicates the Sign of the Navamsa Ascendant (Refer 
the Table above). For example, suppose a person is bom 
in Taurus Sign in Krittika Nakshatra Pada 2; Saturn and 
the Sign of Capricorn rale this Pada. Thus the Navamsa 
Ascendant of the native will be Capricorn. 

2. Starting from the Navamsa Ascendant the other houses are 
written in sequence. For example, if Capricorn is the 
Navamsa Ascendant, the 2nd house will be Aquarius, 3rd 

Pisces and so on. 

3. Similarly the planet's longitudes are divided by 9 and 
knowing the rulership of the Nakshatra quarter in which 
they are, the planets are shown as placed in respective Signs 
ruled by the Nakshatra Quarter lord. 

Thus this chart only reflects: 

a. Navamsa Ascendant as per the Sign ruled by the Nakshatra 
Quarter. 

b. Planets positions in Signs ruled by Nakshatra Quarters in 
which they are placed at the time of birth. 

This chart, therefore, has lost the Significance of Nakshatra quarters 
rising on other houses at the time of birth. The planets positions 
do not bear any relationship with the destiny of the native. This 
topic has been dealt in my book "Basics and Traditional Concepts' 
in the chapter "Navamsa and its Significance". 



Chapter 18: Navamsa and Its Significance 291 

Role of Navamsa in Horoscope Analysis: 

The significations of all the 108 quarters into which the Zodiac 
was divided were declared by synthesizing the attributes of the 
planets co-ruling each quarter and their lordship in the natural 
Mundane Sphere. For example, in Yavana Jataka (Sphujidhwaja) 
it is said, "Venus in Saturn Navamsa indicates a rich man with a 
gentle wife who has little character and ends badly". Now, see 
how this signification has been drawn. It is the synthesis of the 
significations of Venus who is a peace lover and having the lord 
ship of 7* house of the Natural Zodiac which represents wife. So 
he will have a gentle wife. Its lord ship of 2 and 7 in the Natural 
Zodiac and under the influence of Saturn lord of 10 and 11 in the 
Natural Zodiac indicate his high financial status (a rich man). Venus' 
lord ship of 2 and 7 and Saturn's influence upon it hints that the 
native will die in pain and agony. The horoscope analysis was thus 
resorted to as follows: 

1. Potential or Promise of each house was declared as per the 
Nakshatra Quarter rising on the house. For example, the 
physical characteristics of the native were delineated as per 
the Quarter rising on the Ascendant. 

2. Planets behaviour was assessed as per the Nakshatra 
Quarter in which they were rising. For example, the mental 
set up or the temperament of the native was declared as 
per the quarter of the Nakshatra in which Moon was 
transiting at the time of birth. 

If we see the Dhruva Nadi Literature, we find that each planet, 
according to its Nakshatra quarter i.e. Navamsa, is given a 
particular nomenclature as indicated below: 



292 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

l.Lagnamsa 2.Dhanamsa S.Vikramsa 4. Sukhamsa 

S.Putramsa 6. Shashtamsa 7. Bharyamsa S.Nidhanamsa 

9.Bhagyamsa 10. Karmamsa ll.Labhamsa 12.Vyanamsa. 

In Hora-Sara, there is a verse which means: "If the lord of the 
Lagna be posited in the Navamsa Rashi owned by the 8* house 
and the lord of 8* house occupy the Navamsa Rashi owned by 
the Lagna and if they (both) conjoined with malefic, the person 
concerned will live for 50 years." 

In fact, study of the books like Deva-Keralam, Dhruva-Nadi, 
Hora-Sara, Vidya-Madhaviyam, and Prasana-Marg indicates that 
the Navamsa in which a planet is placed or a house rises plays 
very significant role in the delineation of the horoscope. Navamsa 
chart is thus considered as our true geniture by the 
Tradionalists. However, its use in the hands of Modern 
Astrologers has degraded its real impact. 

Another Method to Calculate Navamsa Chart 

We can calculate Navamsa longitude of the Ascendant or Planets 
by multiplying the Nirayana longitudes of Ascendant and Planets 
in the Natal chart by 9 and deducting from the result 360 (if 
needed) and multiplies there of. 

For example: Let the Ascendant degree be Taurus 1 degree. 

Then the Navamsa Ascendant will be 31 x 9 =279 deg. 

i.e. Capricorn 9 deg. 

This method will thus provide not only the Sign position of 
Ascendant and planets but also their longitudes. 

It may be emphasized that the accuracy of the birth chart is 
dependent upon: 



Chapter 18: Navamsa and Its Significance 293 

a. Tune of birth 

b. Lattitude and longitude of the place of birth 

c. Ayanamsa used. 

The accuracy of the Navamsa chart will, therefore, depend upon 
the birth chart and this plays a significant role in the calculation of 
Navamsha chart. For example, if a planet, say Saturn is in Aries 
19 degree 59 min. as per Lahri Ayanamsa, a small difference of 
Ayanamsa of minus 2' say of New Comb's may place Saturn at 
Aries 20 degree 1 min.. Now in the first case the Navamsa of 
Saturn will be as per the second Nakshatra quarter of Bharani i.e. 
ruled by the quarter lord Mercury (Virgo). In the second case the 
Navamsha of Saturn will be as per the 3 rd Nakshatra quarter of 
Bharani i.e. ruled by the quarter lord Venus (Tula). 

The Astrologer for simplicity says that in the first case the planet 
Saturn has acquired the Navamsa of Virgo and in the second case 
the planet has acquired the Navamsa of Tula and as such Saturn is 
said to be exalted in Navamsa. This terminology has caused more 
confusion than simplifying the matters for the analysis of the 
Navamsa chart. As a matter of fact the planet has not acquired 
anything by the division of its longitude by the figure 9. It is only 
indicating the specific area of the Zodiac as per its Nakshatra 
quarter. The confusion has arisen because of using the sign ruled 
by the Nakshatra quarter in place of the Nakshatra quarter lord. 

Analysis of Navamsa Chart: 

1st Theory. 

The Navamsa chart is, in fact the microscopic chart and the Rashi 
chart is the macroscopic chart. If the microscopic chart i.e. 
Navamsa chart is cast as per the true philosophy i.e. Nakshatra 



294 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

quarter theory, then the expert astrologer can analyse the 
horoscope without any reference to the Rashi chart. Unfortunately, 
the Navamsa chart is cast which does not reflect the Nakshatra 
quarter rising on houses other than the Ascendant. This forces us 
to say that the Navamsa chart should be analysed in consonance 
with the Rashi chart. It is a fallacy to say that Navamsa chart 
should be studied for spouse. No doubt, as C. Pagan said, 
Navamsa is sexascopic but it is our true geniture and should be 
analysed for all aspects of life as we study the Rashi chart. 
However, the analysis as is done by the modem Astrologers is 
beset with the following problems: 

1. The houses in the Navamsa chart are only sequentially 
counted from the Navamsa Ascendant sign. Thus the house 
positions bear no correspondence with the destiny of the 
native. The moment of birth of the individual is chosen by 
the Supreme Intelligence in accordance with his past 
Karmas. Corresponding to the Ascendant degree, each 
house is formed which indicates how the native will 
channelise the energy apportioned to him for various aspects 
of life. This is expressed by the Nakshatra quarter rising on 
each house. Navamsa chart cast as above is arbitrary. Thus 
to analyze, say profession of the native from the Sign that 
appears on the 10th house of the Navamsa chart or fromits 
lord is nothing but a far-fetched fantasy. 

2. Similarly analyzing the behaviour of planets on the basis of 
their placements in Navamsa chart is nothing but groping in 
the dark. 

3. Theory of Aspects is based on the actual longitudinal distance 
between planets or between Planets and the degree rising 



Chapter 18: Navamsa and Its Significance 295 

on the house in the Natal Rashi chart. Using theory of 
Aspects in Navamsa chart is an anomaly. 

Second Theory: 

It is based on the Western Concept of analyzing the horoscope. 
The Westerns like Cyril Pagan equate the Navamsa Ascendant to 
Navamsa Moon. They believe that since Navamsas are calculated 
using the mystical number 9 from Taurus 0 degree, near the degree 
of exaltation of Moon in Taurus 3 degree, there is a good reason 
to believe that the Navamsa of Moon is an occult path that leads 
to the veiled nature of a person. According to them the Moon is 
the sole determinant of the degree rising on the houses and the 
general direction of the Navamsa layout; and its disposition is the 
occult but ever- present master behind dialogue with the rest of 
the heavenly bodies. 

The Navamsa Moon has to be logically, in any chart, the most 
important of all the planetary Navamsa longitudes. The Moon 
relates us to psychic, non-human and irrational realms. It has full 
sway upon the constitution of our etheric double and aura. Since 
they equate the Navamsa Ascendant degree with the Navamsa 
Moon degree, the rising Navamsa degree becomes tremendously 
personal and revealing. As far as karma, heredity and genetic are 
concerned, in Astrology, the Sun is regarded as the spirit or soul, 
which is also a part of the Universal Soul. The Natal Sun's Sign 
and degree embodies this and Navamsa aspects by conjunctions, 
opposition and square to it sums up in a nut shell, what an individual 
has been at heart for countless or good number of reincarnations 
and is presently. The influence of aspects of Navamsa planets on 
Natal Sun are indicated below: 



296 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Navamsa Planet Characteristics 

Moon It Indicates complete harmony and 
integration between Spirit (Sun), Mind 
(Moon), and body (Ascendant), thus 
making a person a wonderful and 
charismatic being a public figure viz. 
politician, dramatist, poet etc. 

Jupiter or Rahu A Doctor, Judge, Magirstrate, Benefactor. 

Saturn or Ketu Great sage, scholar, Monk, or Nun, yogi, 
occultist, scientist, Corrupter, Tyrant, 
Assassin. 

Mars Warrior, Engineer, Executive, Hero, 
Heroine, Surgeon. 

Venus Lover, Artist, Social Helper, Peace Settler. 

Mercury Great Educator, Writer, Mathematician, 
Merchant Traveler. 

Sun King of Kings, Avatar, Prophet a Christ, a 
Buddha. 

The whole Navamsa chart with Navamsa Moon as the Ascendant 
is analyzed by the aspect made by Navamsa planets with the Natal 
planets, and also the aspects made by the planets in the chart. For 
example if Mars aspects Venus in the Navamsha chart, it is 
presumed that the native has a great amount of energy and lust for 
life. If Mars is aspected by Saturn, the native might become a 
fakir. 

True Navamsa Chart as used by Ancients 

The deep study of the influence of planets as per their Navamsa in 
a horoscope indicates that the Navamsha chart should be cast as 
follows: 



Chapter 18: Navamsa and Its Significance 297 

1. Calculate the Rashi chart as usual. 

2. Calculate the degree rising at each house (cusp i.e. the 
beginning of each house). 

3. Calculate the longitude of each planet. 

4. Show the Ascendant and other house positions indicating 
the Sign lord, Nakshatra, and the quarter lord. 

5. Show the position of planets as per Sign, Nakshatra and 
Nakshatra quarter. 

Example: The Rashi chart of the Native is shown in fig. 18.1 

Mo Ma Ju 
Sat 

10 Ra 
Me 

Me 
Su \ 
Ve 12 
Ke ^ Mo 

Ju Ma Lag Ra 
Sat 

Fig 18.1 

The planets and house positions are shown in Table 18A and 
Table 18B respectively. 

Fig. 18.2 shows the Traditional Navamsa chart. 

San - Ra 
Sat B Ve 
Ket As Lag 

Ve 
Jup 

Me 
0 Me 12 

Ra 
" a Ma Sun 
Ma Mo Mo Jup Sat 

Ket 
Fig. 18.2 

CD CD C 



298 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Table 18A 

Planet Degrees Sign Nak NakQtr NakQtr 

Lord Lord Lord Sig 
Sun 337.40' Jupiter Saturn Mercury Virgo 

Moon 267.37' Jupiter Sun Jupiter Sagittarius 

Mars 268.50' Jupiter Sun Jupiter Sagittarius 
Mercury 310.15' Saturn Rahu Saturn Capricorn 

Venus 330.22' Jupiter Jupiter Moon Cancer 

Jupiter 22.5' Mars Venus Venus Libra 

Saturn 19.7' Mars Venus Mercury Virgo 

Rahu 158.55' Mercury Sun Jupiter Pisces 

Ketu 338.55' Jupiter Saturn Mercury Virgo 

Navamsa acquired by each planet is shown both in terms of planet 
that rale the Navamsa and also by the sign. 

House position Table 18B 

House Cuspal Rising Cuspal Rising Rising 
No. Degree Sign Sign Nak Nak 

Lord Lord QtrLord 

1 2.34' Mars Scorpio Jupiter Moon 

2 2.39' Jupiter Sagittarius Ketu Mars 

3 5.54' Saturn Capricorn Sun Saturn 

4 10.26' Saturn Aquarius Rahu Saturn 

5 12.22' Capricorn Pisces Saturn Venus 

6 9.29' Mars Aries Ketu Mercury 

7 2.34' Venus Taums Sun Saturn 

8 2.39' Mer Gemini Mars Venus 

9 5.54' Moon Cancer Saturn Sun 



Chapter 18: Navamsa and Its Significance 299 

10 10.26' Sun Leo Ketu Moon 

11 12.22' Mercury Virgo Moon Venus 

12 9.29' Venus Libra Rahu Jupiter 

Note: The degrees are as per Placidius System using New Comb's 
Ayanamasa. The readers may calculate the cuspal degrees using 
the Ayanamsa and house formation system as they prefer. 

How to Correctly Interpret Ancient Rules 

If we see the Dhruva Nadi Literature, we find that each planet 
according to its Nakshatra quarter i.e. Navamsa is given a 
particular nomenclature as indicated below: 

l.Lagnamsa2. DhanamsaS. Vikramsa4. SukhamsaS. Putramsa 
6. Shashtamsa 7. Bharyamsa 8. Nidhanamsa 9. Bhagyamsa 
10. Karmamsa 1 l.Labhamsa 12. Vyanamsa. 

For example, in the above example chart Sun in Pisces is in the 
Navamsa whose ruler is Mercury. Since Mercury is placed in the 
4th house it is called Sukhamsa. Where is the use of Virgo in it ? 
Nor we are trying to use Mercury's position in the 7th house in 
Capricorn as per Traditional Navamsa Chart. 

In Horasara, there is a verse which means : "If the lord of the 
Lagna be posited in the Navamsa Rashi owned by the 8th house 
and the lord of 8th house occupy the Navamsa Rashi owned by 
the Lagna and if they (both) conjoined with malefic the person 
concerned will live for 50 years." 

Let us try to interpret the above using the example horoscope. 

Lord of Lagna is Mars and Mercury rales the 8th house and the 
sign rising is Gemini. If in the horoscope Mars as per its longitude 
is in the Nakshatra quarter i.e. Navamsa, which is ruled by 



300 True Astrology- "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Mercury, then accocding to DhmvaNadi Mars, will be said to be 
Sukhamsa. But as per Horasara, Mars should be in the Nakshatra 
quarter or Navamsa whose lord is Mercury but the Sign should 
be Gemini. Placement of Mercury in the chart is not taken into 
consideration. 

In both cases, the Ancient scholars have not made use of the 
Navamsa chart as cast by the present-day Astrologers-It is a 
different matter that according to one Mars is Sukhamsa and for 
the other Mars is Nidhanamsa. 

The reader finds himself in a fix; torn between the two 
worlds, Sukhamsa and Nidhanamsa It is, perhaps confusion 
confounded. But he knows that those who possessed great 
insight and intuitive power have written these Wrses. Why 
can't both be correct? We are probably in the habit of 
interpreting things in isolation. The reader may seek refuse 
in talking of missing links. Dear readers both are correct. 
One has said it in the context of lagna lord's potential in 
respect of domestic happiness; the other has said it in 
respect of mode of death and longitivity. Lagna lord may be 
in the Navamsa whose lord is the lord of the eighth house in 
the Rashi Chart. The lagna lord becomes a killer planet. It 
has thus acquired Nidhanamsa .If the lagna lord is placed in 
the fourth house it has also acquired Sukhamsa. 

Let us take simple examples. 

1. Profession: The profession of the Native is indicated by the 
planets influencing the 10th house and 10th lord in the Rashi 
chart and the house lords which establish relationship with 
10th house or its lord in the Rashi chart. It is said that we 
should judge it also as per the Navamsha lord of the 10 in 
the Rashi chart. Now if any astrologer says that it should be 



Chapter 18: Navamsa and Its Significance 301 

judged by the sign lord of the 10thhouse in the Navamsa 
chart or the sign of the 10th house it will be totally wrong. 

2. Diseases: The Nature of the disease, if it is said, should be 
analysed from the sign on the 6th house or the planets placed 
in the 6th house in the Navamsa chart is totally misleading. 
Neither the sign on the 6th cusp is related to our destiny nor 
the placement of planets in the 6th cusp. We know that 
conjunctions are of two types viz. 

a) Two planets in the same Nakshatra quarter i.e. in 
one Navamsa Sign. 

b) Two planets at a distance of 40 degree, 80 degree, 
120 degree, 160 degree, 200 degree, 240 degree, 
280 degree and 320 degree from each other, will fall 
in one Navamsha causing conjunction in Navamsa 
Chart. 

From the above it should be clear that placement of planets in 
houses in the Navamsa chart is as per their ruler ship of Nakshatra 
quarter and does not relate to their house positions. 

It is suggested that Navamsa position of houses and planets should 
be used to analyse all aspects of life as per the chart indicated in 
Table 17Aand 17B. For example, if we want to analyse profession 
using Navamsa concept it should be done taking into consideration 
the following: 

1. Navamsa i.e. the Nakshatra quarter rising on the 10th house. 

2. Nakshatra quarter ruler, its placement in the Bhava chart, 
the influence of other planets on it. 

3. Planets placed in the 10thhouse in Bhava chart and the 
planets influencing the 10th Bhava and its lord. 



302 True Astrology - "Basic and Traditional Concepts" 

Example: 

In the example chart Fig. 18.1 and Table 18B, the Nakshatra 
quarter rising on the 10th cusp is ruled by Moon. It is the ruler of 
the 9th house in the Rashi chart and is placed in the 2nd house 
along with the Ascendant lord. Jupiter lord of 2 and 5 placed in 
the 6th house along with Saturn lord of 3 and 4 aspects 2nd house 
and planets placed there in. Mercury and Jupiter aspects the 10th 

house. This analysis clearly justifies the Native's profession as a 
senior officer in the Communication Department. 

Moon the Nakshatra quarter rising on the 10th cusp is lord of 9 
and Mercury aspecting 10th cusp indicates Communication 
Department. Moon's association with Lagna lord Mars and 
Jupiter's aspect both on Moon and Mars indicates dignified 
Profession. Moon's association with Mars lord of 6 and Jupiter's 
aspect on it from 6th house confirms Service. Now both Jupiter 
and Mercury are influencing the profession of the Native and both 
are Karkas for Education. The Native had in fact long terms of 
teaching assignments during Service. 

Divisional Charts and Theory of Disposition: 

Our Ancient seers had sound knowledge of the Zodiac and the 
nature of Planets. They were very specific in declaring dictums of 
Astrology. They stated categorically that a Planet exalts at a specific 
degree. For example Moon exalts at 3 degree Taurus. In saying 
so they never laid down any condition about the state of Venus 
(dignified by Sign or House position) that rules Taurus. They were 
clear in their mind that Zodiac is the store house of energy formed 
by collective rays of celestial bodies. When a Planet is in a particular 
degree the energy content of which synchronizes with its own 
nature we say that Planet is in the state of exaltation. At our level 
we say that the Planet is under the influence of zodiacal energy 



Chapter 18: Navamsa and Its Significance 303 

content that synthesizes the energy content of the Planets that co- 
rale that particular degree of the zodiac. 

Our Ancients created the Varga concept to delineate the 
significations of particular aspects of Human life. They were 
conspicuous in their understanding that Human being takes birth 
at a particular moment on a particular day when the energy content 
of the Ascdt and Planetary positions in the chart corresponds to 
the Karmic code of soul that incarnates. To them Varga only meant 
specifying the degree of the Ascdt and correspondingly other house 
positions. Similarly for Planets these Vargas meant to place the 
Planet in a specific position according to the concept of Varga. 
Moon in 3 degree Taurus in a natal chart is disposed by Venus 
that tells upon the nature of Moon which has to be as per native's 
Karmic code. Placing Moon in Capricorn as per its Navamsa 
Sign would greatly defy the very concept of Humdn birth as per 
theory of incarnation. ^ 

In the light of above it is difficult for me to reconcile to the^tudy of 
Divisional Charts as per prevalent technique of casting these charts. 
Applying theories of disposition to divisional charts means to me 
confusion confounded. 

Above are my personal views based on my under standing 
of Ancient Seers d ic turns on Astrology. Many may not agree 
with me. Let us follow the principle "Agree to disagree". 

To conclude we may say that Rashi Chart or Nakshatra 
Chart (if cast using rising Nakshatra lord's Rashi as the 
Ascendant) are the Divisional Charts at the Macro level 
and the Navamsa and other Varga Charts are the Divisional 
Charts at the Micro level. It is the word Division that has 
created division in our integrated approach.