Elements of 
VEDIC 

ASTROLOGY 

VOLUMES 

1&2 

Dr. K S Charak 
M.S. (SURGERY) 

F.R.C.S. (U.K.) 



Preface to the Fourth Edition 
The Elements of Vedic Astrology has been acclaimed as the most systematic, 

comprehensive and compact work on the Parashari system of astrology. For the past over 
one decade, its supremacy has remained unchallenged. lt remains a standard book for 
those seeking initiation into Vedic astrology while, for the more advanced and the 
researcher in astrology, it serves as a reference book. This work has verily been 
appreciated by the student and the teacher of astrology alike. It retains a stature against 
which all other similar works on Vedic astrology are judged. 

The present edition has been completely revised and enlarged. A whole new 
chapter on the Sudarshana Chakra of Parashara has been added at the end. The 
Sudarshana Chakra method of analysis is supposed to provide a highly accurate 
assessment of a chart. It is hoped that the inclusion of this chapter in the present edition 
will enable the serious student of Vedic astrology to markedly enhance his predictive 
ability. 

DR. K.S. CHARAK 



Preface to the First Edition 
Teaching astrology to highly educated and elite classes of students in the Bharatiya 

Vidya Bhavan, New Delhi, has imposed great demands on the teaching faculty here to 
maintain and upgrade their quality of teaching. A direct consequence of this has been the 
production of several high standard books by the faculty members. Stress has been 
placed on illustrating the various astrological principles and techniques by suitable 
examples. The scientific basis of astrology has been proved repeatedly by illustrating the 
principles which give replicable results. 

Study of Vedic astrology demands an elementary knowledge of astronomy and 
some basic techniques concerned with the preparation of horoscopic charts. 
Understanding the static promise in a horoscope, and the dynamic aspect of timing the 
fruition of such promise, are areas which demand deeper study. Vedic astrology has at its 
disposal innumerable techniques which can be employed for virtually infallible results. 
Not all techniques are to be used by every practitioner of Vedic astrology on all 
horoscopes. But a knowledge of most of these is desirable. Eventually, each astrologer 
develops his standard technique which suits him the best. 

Elements of Vedic Astrology is directed towards providing the basic principles of 
Vedic astrology. It highlights the scientific basis of astrology. The initial few chapters are 
directed towards clarifying the fundamental principles of astrology. The basic concepts of 
astronomy as are relevant to a study of astrology are described clearly. An example of the 
highly evolved ancient Indian method of teaching has been taken from a celebrated 
scripture; it highlights the simple yet lucid style of imparting scientific-spiritual 
instruction to a disciple. Some important areas of astrology concerned with the 
characteristics of rashis, houses and planets, the nature of planets, and the significations of 
houses and planets, have all been described in great details. Two chapters have been 
devoted to the techniques of casting a horoscopic chart. It may be pertinent to point out 
here that an understanding of the manual method of casting of a horoscope has vast 
advantages and must be mastered fully. Reliance may later be placed on computerised 
calculations if so desired. 

Subtle areas of astrology, like the planetary states (Avasthas) and the sub-planets, 
have been discussed briefly and areas for further research indicated. The use ofvargas, or 
subtle divisions, has been explained. The Vimshottari dasha system has been dealt with in 
details while the Yo gini dasha has been described briefly in order to provide an 
additional confirmatory tool. A vast amount of information gathered from standard 
classical texts of astrology in respect of the placement of planets in different houses or 
rashis, and the various planetary influences on them, has been provided. 

The stature of a horoscope is reflected in the presence or absence of the all-
important planetary yogas in a horoscope. These must be recognised at the outset, and 
their quality judged, in order to assess the potential inherent in a chart. Three full chapters 
have been devoted to this aspect along with illustrative examples. 

Determination of longevity is a tricky area in astrology. Some standard methods of 
calculating the span of life along with their pitfalls have been described. 

Specialised predictive areas of Vedic astrology have been touched briefly in order 



to acquaint the reader of such additional predictive tools. These include medical 
astrology, horary astrology, transits, annual charts and Ashtakavarga. One chapter has 
been devoted to the Muhurta or electional aspect of astrology. Greater understanding of 
these areas necessitates further study, an aspect which has been hinted at appropriately. 

The book deals solely with the Parashari system which is the most prevalent system 
of Vedic astrology. No attempt has been made to transgress into the other parallel system 
known as the Jaimini system which is less in vogue, is less well understood, and needs a 
lot of research before being universally applicable. 

The work is primarily meant for those who want to learn astrology from the very 
beginning, and pursue it seriously in a scientific manner. It will serve as a stepping stone 
for those who want to eventually go into specialised branches of astrology. It is also 
aimed to help those who intend to indulge in astrological research in hitherto unexplored 
areas like the vargas, the sub-planets, or the planetary states, etc. 
My efforts will be more than rewarded if this work fulfils its intended aims. 

DR. KS. CHARAK 



Contents 
... I... Vedic Astrology:An Introduction 
.. .II...Elementarv Concepts ofAstronomv-I 
... .III ... Elementarv Concepts ofA stronomY-II 

... IV ... Vedic Method of Instruction: An lllustration, 

... V ... Of Signs. Houses and Planets 
... VI...Nature of Planets 
... VII ... Significations of Houses and Planets 
... VIII. .. Casting a Horoscope: Cusps of Houses 
.. .IX ... Casting a Horoscope: Longitudes ofP!anets 

"".X ... Vargas or Subtle Divisions 
...,.XI...The Sub-Planets 

"".XII ... Planetarv States of Being 
...,.XHl ... Graha Bala or the Strength of Planets 

.... XIV ... The Pashas or Operational Periods of Planets 

.... XV .. .Interpretation of the Vimshottari Dasha 

.,..XVl ... Balarishta and Arishta Bhanga 
, .. XVII ... Placement of Lords of Houses 
.... XVIII...Planets in Different Houses 
... XIX ... Planets in Different Signs 

... XX,.Nabhasa Yogas 

... XXI...YogasBased on Ownership ofHouses 
.... XXII ... Soecific and Miscellaneous Yo gas 
_...XXIII...Mathematical Calculation of Longevity 
...,.XXIV ... Astrologv of Health and Disease 
.... XXV ... Varshaohala or Annual Horoscoov 

...... XXVJ. .. Muhurta or the Astrology of Election 

...... XXVII ... Matching of Charts: The Traditional Method 

... XXVIII...Prashna or Horary Astrology 



.... XXIX ... Gochara or Planetary Transits 
... XXX ... Ashtakavarga 
... XXXL.Sudarshana Chakra 
• .. XXXII ... Summarv 



........ 

Vedic Astrology: An Introduction 

aiJ ~ 41CiCiftl ~ ;·f' 
-""" ,. ...... 

i'ti!4~ I 'TlBI":'::~:n-1: T€f Cfi {Ci I a~ 
d-.if~ ~~ m fafaMidJ II 
a1J ~~~f~: ~~~f~: ~llki: II 

Aum! May He protect us both (the teacher and the disciple) 
together. May He sustain us both together. May we attain vigour 
together. May the learning of us both be resplendent. May we 
harbour no mutual ill will. 
Aum! Peace! Peace! Peace 

Kathopanishad 

Astrology is as old as the Vedas themselves. The Vedas, which are the sacred Hindu 
scriptures, embody eternal knowledge. Strict moral and spiritual practices along with a 
deep study are the prerequisites to understand the essence of the Vedas. To the 
uninitiated, the Vedas might appear as nothing more than ritualistic oblations to air, water 
and thunder, etc. Deep truths, however, begin to unfold to the true seeker as his search 
goes on. 

In times of yore, sincere seekers of truth and knowledge in India used to spend 
years and years at the feet of their 'gurus', learning the meanings hidden in the Vedas. 

In order to decipher what lies concealed in the Vedas, a study of certain subjects is 
considered a prerequisite. These subjects are called the 'Vedangas' or the body organs of 
the Vedas. There are six such Vedangas. They are: 
(i) Shiksha, which deals with an understanding of the Vedic 'Varnas', 'Swaras' and 
'Matras', and thus with the technique of correct pronunciation. 
(ii) Chhanda, dealing with the appropriate lyrical utterance of the Vedic 'Suktas'. 
(iii) Vyakarana, expounding the grammatical aspects ofthe language. 
(iv) Nirukta, which explains the difficult words, 'padas' and 'mantras'. 
(v) Kalpa, dealing with the understanding of Sutras and the use of Mantras, hence 
concerned with the ritualistic aspect of the Vedas. 
(vi) Jyotisha or astrology. 

Of the body called the Vedas, astrology represents the 'eyes', with its capacity to 
'see' the past, the present and the future. Astrology is considered as the most important of 
the vedanga 



What is Astrology? 

Astrology is a scientific study and application of the language of the heavenly 
bodies. These heavenly bodies, determined on the basis of astronomy and mathematics, 
are mapped in the form of a horoscope. Their specific locations in the horoscope indicate 
specific happenings in the case of individuals, of multitudes and of geographical regions. 
Whether the Sun, the Moon, the planets and the stars themselves influence the terrestrial 
phenomena, or they only indicate such phenomena by their various dispositions, is 
immaterial. What is important to us is that variations in their disposition determine 
variations in the events on the earth; the correlations are only too strong to be brushed 
aside by the critics of astrology. 



Who should practice astrology?, 

In the ancient times, a strict code of conduct was demanded of those who practised 
astrology. A guru would teach astrology only to a deserving disciple who would adhere 
to such a code of conduct. The guru-shishya (i.e., the teacher-disciple) tradition is already 
long over in India. With changing times, it has become difficult to fmd an appropriate 
'guru' and a deserving 'shishya' to pursue this sacred study within the rules laid by the 
sages of yore. It is, however, quite in order to be aware of this ancient code of conduct. 
V arahamihira, the celebrated authority on astrology, prescribes the following 
qualifications for an astrologer: 
(a) Physical features: According to the said author, the physical features reflect the inneT 
nature of a man. The astrologer must be good to look at, with all his body parts complete 
and healthy. He should be of sound health, with sound hands, feet, nails, chin, teeth, ears, 
forehead and head, and having a loud and impressive voice. 
(b) Moral soundness: He should be truthful, gentle, bereft of cravings and aversions, 
clean of heart, not inclined to be critical of the qualities of others, and devoid of base and 
worldly distractions. 
(c) Behaviour in an assembly: He should be clever, able to express himself, bold in an 
assembly, not intimidated by his fellow astrologers, dignified, and aware of the 
constraints of social and historical circumstances. 
(d) Proficiency in the subject of astrology: He should be well-read, and proficient in the 
three branches of astrology known as the Ganita, the Santhita and the Hora. He must have 
studied the five Siddhantas (or mathematical treatises). His mathematical proficiency must 
include a knowledge of the various divisions of time, from the gross ones like the Yuga 
to the finer ones. He must also possess knowledge ofthe various divisions, including the 
finest ones, of the zodiac. 
(e) Proficiency in various branches of astrology: The astrologer is required to possess a 
knowledge of different aspects of astrology which deal with propitiation of planets, 
rendering the planets beneficial or hostile, conducting religious ceremonies, and rituals 
which help neutralise the natural calamities. 
(f) Defence of astrology: The astrologer must be able to answer queries, and also pose 
relevant questions where appropriate. When necessary, he should be able to dazzle others 
by his knowledge, only to increase the dignity of astrology. 
(g) More about the qualities of an astrologer: The astrologer must possess knowledge of 
solar, civil, nakshatric and lunar time measures; of intercalary months; of the sixty 
Samvatsaras, the yugas, years, months, days and Horas; of varying opinions on varying 
aspects of mathematical astronomy; of various dispositions of planets, including their 
exaltations, debilitations, fast and slow motions, their conjunctions as well as planetary 
warfares; of latitudes and longitudes of places on the surface of the earth; of the 
movements of the nakshatras; of the rising and setting of signs, Charakhandas for 
different latitudes, etc. He should be highly confident and a clear expounder of the 
Shastras. 
The sage Parashara advocates a similar code of conduct for astrologers, stressing 
particularly on the necessity for technical, intellectual and moral excellence; the capacity 
to weigh the pros and cons of a situation, along with an ability to synthesize a coherent 



prediction based on a sound knowledge of the principles, sometimes apparently 
contradictory, of astrology. 



Sub-divisions of Astrology 

There are three main sub-divisions of astrology. 
I.Samhita: This deals with collectivity or multitudes. It encompasses such varied areas as 
weather forecasts, agricultural produce, natural disasters, floods, famines, wars, 
earthquakes, cyclones, market trends, changes in government, national and international 
events, and virtually anything that influences the masses. The annual world predictions 
which are generally based either on the Hindu New Year commencing on the Chaitra 
Shukla Pratipada, or on the Solar Ingress into Mesha, fall under the Samhita astrology. 
2. Siddhanta or Tantra or Ganita: This deals with the mathematical aspects of astrology. 
There are several treatises on Siddhanta astrology but five, among them, are considered 
as particularly important. They are: 

(a) Surya Siddhanta 
(b) Paulisha Siddhanta 
(c) Romaka (or Lomasha) Siddhanta 
(d) Vasishtha Siddhanta 
(e) Paitamaha Siddhanta 

A proficiency in these is considered as a prerequisite for a good astrologer, according to 
the celebrated Varahamihira. 
3. Hora: it deals with: 

(a) Individual horoscopes, or Jataka, or natal charts. 
(b) Muhurta or electional astrology, which concerns itself with the election of 
favourable planetary dispositions to achieve specific accomplishments in day-to-
day life. 



Astrology and Science 

Study of astrology has been branded by the neo-scientists as a belief in superstition. 
Greater criticism has been heaped on astrology by those who have never bothered to 
study the subject. Many critics have questioned the basis of astrology, ignoring the fact 
that an understanding of a basis has to succeed and not precede an observation. The basis 
of gravitational pull was determined after the existence of the force of gravitation was 
recognised. Anyone who studies astrology with an open mind cannot but appreciate the 
fact that astrology is a highly developed science. 

By definition, science means a knowledge ascertained by observation and 
experiment, critically tested, systematised and brought under general principles. 
Astrology strictly fulfils all these criteria. Two aspects of astrology deserve a special 
mention: 
(a) The cause and effect phenomenon; Critics of astrology boast that physical sciences 
depend upon a cause and effect relationship, which astrology apparently lacks. They, 
however, fail to appreciate that astrology is a cosmic science and not bound by the 
limitations of a laboratory. In physical sciences, there may be a gross cause or a subtle 
cause, producing a physically visible or gross effect. Gravitation, which is a subtle cause, 
produces a gross effect of attracting a physical body towards the earth. In the case of 
astrology, the cause is always subtle while the effect is appreciable and predictable 
according to rules which have been developed and refmed over the centuries. The subtle 
cause in case of astrology is the cosmic force represented by the disposition of the various 
heavenly bodies or 'planets'. Physical scientists can only trace the cause from the 
apparent effect. 

It may be noted, however, that astrology deals with a multitude of phenomena on 
the earth. This being so, there are numerous parameters and a methodology more 
elaborate than any known physical science can boast of. Making correct predictions, 
therefore, is difficult and demands hard labour on the part of an astrologer. 
Unfortunately, the failure of an astrologer has been often misinterpreted as a failure of 
the science. 
(b) The phenomenon of replication: Astrology is also criticised on the ground that its 
principles do not yield results which can be invariably replicated or reproduced. Physical 
sciences can, on the other hand, boast of a reproducibility of their various principles. It 
may be pointed out here that every correct astrological prediction, in fact, underscores 
the principle of replication in astrology. Since astrology is a complex science, its every 
known principle has to be applied carefully, considering the numerous parameters and 
weighing the various pros and cons. In the ancient Indian scriptures, for example, 
numerous astrological dicta lie hidden. Unfolded and carefully applied today, they prove 
their eternal applicability and give dazzling results which the open minded scientists of 
today can only marvel at. It is no coincidence that a planetary combination present at the 
time of the Mahabharata war, and described by Kama to lord Krishna, also obtained, in a 
modified form, in 1914 when the World War I started; in 1942 when World War II was 
in progress, and again in 1971 at the time of the lndo-Pak conflict. During all these 
occasions, India got involved in the mess quite intimately. In 1965 too, when India and 
Pakistan clashed, a similar but modified planetary disposition arose. Before heaping any 
criticism on astrology, it will be interesting to watch when such a combination is likely to 
obtain in future, and in what form. 



Astrology and Karma 

Karma is the sum total of one's physical, mental and spiritual functions. The world 
goes on because there is a role of free will assigned to human beings. Where does then 
astrology fit in, deal as it does with predestination? Is there a conflict between belief in 
astrology and in free will? How can scriptures lay emphasis on both if they are mutually 
conflicting? 

Astrology is based on the relationship of cause and effect. If there is an effect, there 
must be a cause preceding it. Thus, if an event good or bad happens today, there must be 
a cause for it, whether or not that cause is appreciable. Certain functions or Karmas 
produce an immediate result. Still others obtain fruition after a longer time period. Still 
others may take several years or decades (or even longer) to materialise. If one believes 
in the law of cause and effect, then the ambience of one's birth and the subsequent 
opportunities or their lack cannot be a matter of mere chance. This takes us to a belief in 
birth and rebirth. Karmas done in one birth must manifest sometime in a later birth. 

The past karmas produce limitations for us because they yield certain results which 
influence our future karmas. We do have a free will, but within the limitations prescribed 
by the results of our past actions. Karmas in fact manufacture destiny. 

An astrologer can point out which of the results from the past karmas can be 
overcome, and which cannot be overcome and, therefore, have to be suffered. A karma 
done is like a missile fired; it may or may not be neutralised by a counter-missile, 
depending upon the relative strength of the two. 



Astrology and Genetic Link 

A fascinating aspect of astrological study is the link that exists between members of 
the same family. This is an area of research also. Just as certain blood groups cannot exist 
amongst the children of particular parents, so also certain planetary combinations cannot 
obtain in certain families. Study ofhoroscopes belonging to a family indicate similarities 
which can be easily appreciated. This aspect of astrology has a vast possible usage. 



Interlinked Destinies 

Different individuals who are linked to each other in one way or the other show 
distinct similarities in their horoscopic charts. An event which is visible in the horoscope 
of a child can also be seen in the horoscopes of his parents as well as siblings. People who 
come in closer contact in mutual relationships or business partnerships show striking 
similarities in their charts at appropriate periods. Just as particles of similar densities sink 
to a similar extent on centrifugation, so also people who have similar pursuits tend to get 
grouped together. 



Composite Approach for Astrological Predictions 

In the ancient times, astrology was studied and practised in a highly scientific 
manner. Just as in medical sciences of today where multiple investigative tools are 
employed to diagnose a disease, in astrology too several different methods used to be 
employed. As the ancient tradition disappeared, astrology shrank into a family tradition, 
getting confined to a few families only. Its approach became more and more rigid. Until 
recently, many astrologers have been using only limited methods to make only a limited 
range of predictions. 

Lately, however, highly educated people have started studying astrology giving it a 
modern and scientific look. This sacred subject is now taught in institutions like any other 
modern science. No longer is astrological study subject to limitations of method and 
approach. A highly effective composite approach for astrological predictions has been 
thus revived. Any given event is confirmed in a horoscopic chart by using a host of 
available techniques, like the use of both the Parashari and the Jaimini systems, the 
application of various dashas and the use of several divisional charts and of 
Ashtakavarga. Besides, the same event is often studied in the charts of those closely 
related to or associated with the native. This increases the success of predictions and 
proves the superiority of astrology as a scientific discipline. 

In the pages that follow, an earnest attempt will be made to explain some of the 
elements of this sacred science. 



n 
... ·1-1· ..• 

Elementary Concepts of Astronomy-! 

Those who know of the day of Brahma as of a duration of a 
thousand ages and the nigh (too) of a thousand ages, they 
(verily) know the (essence of) day and night. 

Gita VIII/17 

Vedic astrology is based on a very sound understanding of astronomy. In ancient 
India, astronomy was a highly developed subject. A knowledge of astronomy was 
considered essential for an astrologer. To the ancient Vedic astrologer, such phenomena 
as the rotation and the revolution of the earth, the formation of seasons, the occurrence of 
eclipses, the concepts of solar and 1u nar months, the eq ui no xes, and the subtle concepts 
of disposition of planets and stars in the sky, were all well known. Without the availability 
of the present day sophisticated instruments and telescopes, he was able to decipher fine 
variations in the disposition of heavenly bodies. The fact that he could take into 
consideration such fine divisions of time as is possible only through the electronic I 
atomic clocks of today is marvellous. 



Earth as the centre 

The Vedic astrologer was aware that nothing in the universe was stationary. It was, 
therefore, irrelevant to attempt to pick up a fixed point in the sky, and consider the 
movements of earth and other heavenly bodies in relation to such a point. In any case, it 
was more convenient to imagine himself as the central point with the rest of the universe 
in constant motion around himself. He, therefore, considered the position and movement 
of all heavenly bodies in relation to the earth itself which was his residence. It is no 
wonder then that Indian astronomy and astrology consider the earth as the centre, and all 
other heavenly bodies moving around it in one manner or the other. The Indian 
astronomy is thus geocentric, and not heliocentric which latter considers the Sun as the 
centre. The Indian astronomer does appreciate the Sun to be the centre of the solar 
system, but he also appreciates that the Sun, the solar system, as well as the stars are all 
moving. For him, the point of relative fixity at the centre of heavenly bodies in the 
galaxy was the pole star, called as the Dhruva. With such profound appreciation of 
astronomy, it is preposterous on the part of anyone to attribute ignorance of the earthly 
movements to the ancient Indian astronomer. 



The Zodiac 

Imagine a belt or a path in the sky, some 18 degrees of arc in width, running 
around the earth in an east-west direction. Groups of stars, to all appearance fixed, are 
studded along this imaginary belt. Twenty seven (or twenty eight!) such groups of stars 
are recognised in Vedic astrology. Because of lack of apparent motion, these are called as 
Nakshatras. This imaginary belt, with nakshatras studded on it, is called the zodiac. 

The zodiac forms the reference point for fixing up the position of any planet or star 
in the sky. Since it encircles the earth, it is comprised of 360 degrees. The twenty-seven 
nakshatras being evenly placed on it each have a span of 13 °20' arc. The various 
nakshatras are numbered from one to twenty-seven. 

In contrast to the fixed nakshatras, there are the moving heavenly bodies called the 
Grahas. These move along the zodiac from the west to the east. They derive their name 
from the fact that, while moving against the background of the nakshatras, they appear to 
get hold of one nakshatra after the other (gratia = to catch hold of). Vedic astrology 
recognises nine grahas. They are the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, 
Saturn, Rahu and Ketu. Of these, the Sun is a star, the Moon is a satellite of the earth, 
Rahu and Ketu are mere mathematical points on the zodiac, while the remaining ones are 
planets. For the sake of descriptive convenience, we shall refer to all of these as 'planets'. 
These planets (appear to) revolve around the earth while staying within the limits of the 
zodiac. 

Ecliptic 

Equator 

The wdiac is a band 18° wide and placed obliquely to the equator. ftis 



divided into twelve equal parts called Rash is or twenty-seven equal parts 
called Nakshatras. The ecliptic passes through the centre of this band. 

The apparent path of the Sun along the zodiac is known as the ecliptic. The ecliptic 
passes through the centre of the zodiac. It is inclined at an angle of 23 "28' to the plane of 
the equator. 

We have deliberately refrained from considering the extra-Saturnine planets, called 
Uranus, Neptune and Pluto. These do not form a part of Vedic astrology. 



Signs or Rashis 

When the zodiac is divided into twelve equal parts, each such part has an extension 
of 30 degrees of the arc. Such a division is called a Sign or Rashi. A sign consists of two 
and a quarter nakshatras. A particular group of stars in the zodiac is considered as the 
starting point of the zodiac. From this point, the twenty-seven nakshatras or the twelve 
signs begin. A planet located anywhere along the zodiac may be considered as located in 
a particular sign, depending upon which twelfth division of the zodiac it is in; it may be 
considered as being located in a particular nakshatra too, depending upon which twenty 
seventh division of the zodiac it is in. 

The planets from the Sun to Saturn have been allotted the ownership of these signs. 
While the Sun and the Moon own one sign each, the remaining planets own two signs 
each. Rahu and Ketu are generally not allotted ownership of these signs. The names of 
the twelve signs, their planetary lords, and their extent in the zodiac, etc., are given in 
Table 11-1. 



Table Il-l 

Sign Euglislr Symbol Lord Extent 
equivalent in degrees 

1. Mesh a A•·ies {$ Mars 0-30 
2. Vl'isb a Taurus ~ Veuus 30-60 
3. ~Iitbuna Gemini rr Mercm·y 60-90 
4. Karka Caueer § ~loon 90-120 
5. Sim ha Leo 6l Sun 120-150 
6. KanYa Virgo 11} Mercurv 150-180 

t 

7. Tula Libra .n. Veuus 180-210 
8. Vrischika Scorpio IlL Mars 210-240 
9. Dhauu Saggitarius ')(' Jupiter 240-270 
10. Makara Capricorn 'P Saturn 270-300 

,
11. Kumbha Aquarius ,......__  Saturn 300-330 
12. Meeua Pisces * Jupiter 330-360 



Nakshatras 

The twenty-seven nakshatras also extend along the zodiac from 0 • to 360 •. They 
too are owned by planets. 

In the case of nakshatras, the planets Rahu and Ketu are also allotted the ownership. 
Each nakshatra is further divided into four parts called the padas or charanas. There are 
thus 108 nakshatra padas or quarters in the twenty-seven nakshatras. Each nakshatra 
quarter measures 3°20'. The relation of nakshatras with rashis, and their extent and 
owners, are shown in Table II-2. 



Table 11-2 
Rashis: Nakshatras and Nakshatra Lords 

Rash is Nakshatras Extent Pada Lord 
sdlll 

1. Mesha 1. Ashwini 0113°20' 4 Keto 
2. Bharani 0126°40' 4 Venus 
3. Krittika 110°0' 1 Sun 

2. Vrisha 3. Krittika 1110 °0' 3 Sun 
4. Rohini 1123°20' 4 Moon 
5. Mrigasira 210°0' 2 Mars 

3 Mithuna 5. Mrigasira 216°·W 2 Mars 
6. Ardra 2120°0' 4 Rahu 
7. Punarvasu 310°0' 3 Jupiter 

4. Karka 7. Punarvasu 313°20' 1 Jupiter 
8. Pushva 3116°40' 4 Saturn 

• 
9. Ashlesha 410°0' 4 Mercmy 

5. Sim ha IO.Magha 4113°20' 4 Keto 
ll.PPhalguni 4126°40' 4 Venus 
12. U Phal!!nni 510°0' 1 Sun 

6. Kanya 12. U Phalgnni 5110 °0' 3 Sun 
13.Hasta 5123°20' 4 Moon 
14. Chitra 610°0' 2 Mars 



7. Tula 14. Chitra 6s6°40' 2 Mars 
15. Swati 6~0°0' 4 Rahu 
16. Visbakha t0°0' 3 Jupiter 

8 Vrischika 16.Vishakha i3°20' 1 Jupiter 
17. Anuradha 7s16°40' 4 Saturn 
18 .J veshtha 8$0°0' 4 Mercurv 

9 Dhanu 19. Moola 8$13°20' 4 Ketu 
20.PAsadha 8$26°40' 4 Veuus 
21.UAsadha 9s0°0' 1 Sun 

10 Makara 21.UAsadha 9s10°0' 3 Sun 
22.Shravana 9$23°20' 4 Moon 
23 .Dhauistha 10s0°0' 2 Mars 

11. Kumbha 23 .Dhauistha 10s6°40' 2 Mars 
24. Sata Bhishaj 10s20°0' 4 Rahu 
25. P Bhadrapada 11$0°0' 3 Jupiter 

12. Meena 25. P Bhadrapad 11 s3°20' 1 Jupiter 
26. U Bhadrapad llsl6°40' 4 Saturn 
27. Revati 12s0°0' 4 Mercury 

A segment of the zodiac extending from 276 '40'0" to 280 °53'20" (equivalent to 
6°40'0" to lcJ 53'20" in the Makara rashi), involving the last quarter of the twenty first 
(i.e. Uttarashadha) nakshatra and the beginning of the twenty-second (Shravana), is 
sometimes considered as a separate nakshatra by the name Abhijit. This addition changes 
the number of nakshatras to twenty-eight. In such a situation, Abhijit is considered as the 



twenty-second nakshatra, and the subsequent six nakshatras (from Shravana onwards) 
assume changed numbers (from 23 to 28, instead of22 to 27). 



The geocentric astronomical framework 

In order to understand the very basic astronomical concepts, as pertinent to an 
understanding of Vedic astrology, it is important to understand certain facts about the 
earth, the movements of the earth, and the apparent movement of the planets around the 
earth. Explanation of a few definitions is also in order. 

Earth as a sphere: The earth is spherical. It rotates from west to east around its axis. 
The axis of the earth is an imaginary line which, passing through its centre, connects its 
two poles, the north pole and the south pole. Another imaginary line running across the 
largest circumference of the earth, equidistant from its poles and running in an east-west 
direction, is called the equator. The terrestial equator is considered as the zero degree of 
latitude. Parallels drawn to the equator, either north or south of it, indicate the north or 
south latitudes, from zero degree at the equator to 90 degrees at either pole. 

Equator---1 
(0" Latitude) 

Prime Meridian 
(0" Longitude) 

The equator divides the earth into northern and southern 
hemispheres.Latitudes and longitudes help locate a place on the surface of 
the earth. Arrow shows Ih e direction of earth's rotation from west to east. 

Imaginary lines can also be drawn on the surface of the earth connecting the north 
pole to the south pole. Encompassing the circumference of the earth, these correspond to 
the 360 degrees of longitude. They are also known as the terrestrial meridians. Ancient 
Vedic astrologers considered the terrestrial meridian passing through Ujjain as the zero 
degree longitude. At present, the meridian passing through Greenwich in England is 
regarded as corresponding to zero degree of longitude. 

The longitudes are marked from zero degree to 180 degrees east or west, 
depending upon whether a place falls to the east or to the west of Greenwich. The latitude 
and the longitude of a place are the co-ordinates which help to locate the place accurately 



on the surface of the earth. The 360 degrees of terrestrial longitude represent a time span 
of 24 hours. One hour thus corresponds to 15 degrees, and one degree of terrestrial 
longitude represents 4 minutes of time. 

The great and the small circles: A great circle is any circle the plane of which passes 
through the centre of a sphere. Equator is a great circle on the earth, equidistant from the 
north and south poles. 

Any circle the plane of which does not pass through the centre of a sphere is called 
a small circle. As the equator corresponds to zero degree latitude, all parallels to it are 
small circles, which represent the north or south latitudes. 

Imaginary extensions into space: The space around the earth extends to an infinite 
extent. To us, the extension of space upto the zodiac is of primary importance. 

Celestial Sphere is an imaginary projection of the earth in all directions upto 
infinity. An extension of the plane of terrestial equator into space is called the celestial 
equator. Any great circle that joins the celestial north and south poles is called a meridian. 
The meridian of a place corresponds to the terrestrial longitude. The meridian passing 
through Greenwich corresponds to zero degree of longitude, and is termed as the 
principal meridian or the standard meridian. The angular distance between the principal 
meridian and the meridian of a given place (i.e., the angle subtended by the principal 
meridian and the meridian of a given place, at the centre of the earth) is called the 
longitude of a place. 

The Sun crosses the meridian of a place at mid-day. The intersection of the ecliptic 
(i.e., the sun's apparent path around the earth) with the meridian of a place is termed as 
the midheaven which in other words corresponds to the cusp of the tenth house of a 
horoscope. The meridian of a place thus passes, around the earth, through north pole, 
midheaven (lOth house or zenith), south pole, nadir (4th house) and back to the north 
pole. 

Declination and right ascension: Just as parallels of latitude and meridians of 
longitude help to locate a place on the surface of the terrestrial sphere, so do their 
extensions in the form of parallels of declination and meridians of right ascension help to 
locate heavenly bodies on the celestial sphere. 

Declination of a planet is the angle subtended by it and the celestial equator at the 
earth. The declination of a planet, thus, corresponds exactly with the terrestrial latitude. A 
planet at the terrestrial equator is said to possess zero degree declination. 

Right ascension of a planet is its angular distance, measured eastwards along the 
celestial equator, from the vernal equinox to the point where a perpendicular drawn 
through the said planet falls on the celestial equator. 

Equator and Ecliptic; formation of seasons: The earth rotates on its own axis in 
twenty-four hours. Along with this rotation, it also revolves around the Sun in one year 
or 365.2422 days (365 days 5 hours 48 minutes 46 seconds). This span of time is called a 
tropical year. The path of the earth around the Sun appears to us, from the earth, as the 
Sun's path around the earth, and is called the ecliptic. 

The equator runs around the middle of earth in an east-west direction and divides 
the earth into a northern hemisphere and a southern hemisphere. The ecliptic, or the 
Sun's path, in the apparent east-west direction, does not lie along the equator but is 



obliquely placed to it. Half of the Sun's path thus lies to the north of the equator and a 
half of it to the south of the equator. 
Aryabhatta wrote over fifteen centuries ago: 

"One half of the ecliptic, running from the beginning of the sign Aries to the end 
of the sign Virgo, lies obliquely inclined (to the equator) northwards. The remaining half 
(of the ecliptic) running from the beginning of the sign Libra to the end of the sign 
Pisces, lies (equally inclined to the equator) southwards." 

The Sun thus happens to cross the equator twice a year, giving rise to what are 
termed as the two equinoxes. The vernal equinox happens around the 21st March, when 
the Sun is on its northerly course. The autumnal equinox occurs around 23rd September 
when the Sun is on its southerly course. On these two occasions, the day and night all 
over the globe are of equal duration. The Sun is vertically above the equator at this time. 
The declination of the Sun at these occasions is zero as it corresponds to the terrestrial 
equator which represents zero degree latitude. 

Celestial North Pole 

Celestial Sphere 
............... ,. 

Summer 
Autumnal --~ 1./ Solstice 
Equinox'-..•  Ecliptic 

...,  Celestial 
Equator 

Vernal 
Winter I "~-­ Equinox 
Solstice 

Celestial South Pole 
The ecliptic is inclined to the equator at an angle of 23°28'. It crosses the 
equator at two points, the vernal equinox and the autumnal equinox. The 
north and south poles of the earth correspond to the celestial north and 

south poles. 



After vernal equinox, the Sun progressively attains north declination until it reaches 
a maximum of23 "28'. This occurs around 2lstJune and is known as the summer solstice. 
The Sun is vertically above the tropic of Cancer at this time. The northern hemisphere 
experiences the longest day and the shortest night on this occasion. The reverse holds true 
for the southern hemisphere. 

After the autumnal equinox, the Sun pursues a southward course and attains a 
maximum south declination of 23 "28' at the time of winter solstice. This happens around 
22nd December. The Sun is vertically above the tropic of Capricorn, at this time. The 
northern hemisphere experiences the shortest day and the longest night on this occasion. 
The reverse holds true for the southern hemisphere. 

The obliquity of the ecliptic to the equator thus results in the formation of seasons. 
When it is winter in the northern hemisphere, it is summer in the southern hemisphere. 
When it is summer in the northern hemisphere, it is winter in the southern hemisphere. 

The horizon: It is the great circle which represents the meeting line of the earth and 
the sky. It varies according to the position of the observer on the surface of the earth. For 
example, for an observer at the north pole of the earth, the horizon corresponds with the 
equator while the southern hemisphere remains out of view. For one standing at the 
equator, the great circle passing through the poles represents the horizon; the two poles 
lie on the horizon in this case. For any intermediate positions, the horizon too varies 
accordingly. More and more of the southern hemisphere moves out of the horizon as the 
observer moves northward, and more and more northern hemisphere moves out of the 
horizon as the observer moves southward. 

The point of the celestial sphere which is directly overhead for the observer is 
called as the zenith. This is at right angles to the observer's horizon. Its opposite point is 
known as the nadir. The great circle that passes in a north-south direction through the 
zenith and the nadir, through the celestial north and south poles (i.e., the north and south 
poles of the equator) and through the north and south points of the horizon is called the 
meridian which has been already referred to. 



The rising and setting of signs 

As already mentioned, the ecliptic passes through the centre of the zodiacal belt 
which extends some s· to 9" on its either (north as well as south) side. The planets remain 
within the limits of the zodiac. The earth rotates around its axis once in twenty-four hours 
from west to east. As a consequence, all heavenly bodies appear to revolve around the 
earth from east to west once in twenty-four hours. The zodiac, with the nakshatras and 
rashis fixed upon it, also appears to revolve around the earth once in twenty-four hours. 
Thus all the signs and nakshatras on the zodiac appear to successively rise in the eastern 
horizon and set at the western horizon once in twenty-four hours. Six of the twelve signs 
appear at the eastern horizon during the day-time and the remaining six during night-
time. The following points are of importance: 
I. The sign that rises at the eastern horizon, at a given moment of time, is of primary 
importance and called the ascendant or the lagna. It is the sign where the ecliptic cuts the 
eastern horizon. In a horoscope this represents the first house. 
2. The sign seventh from the ascendant is the descendant or the setting sign. That is, when 
a particular sign is rising in the eastern horizon, its opposite sign is setting in the western 
horizon. It is the sign where the ecliptic cuts the western horizon. In a horoscope this 
represents the seventh house. 
3. The points where the meridian cuts the ecliptic are the zenith (above the earth) and the 
nadir (below the earth, exactly opposite to the zenith) The zenith (mid-heaven) represents 
the tenth house in a horoscope, while the nadir represents the fourth house. 
4. Each sign takes time to rise at the horizon from zero degrees to 30 degrees. All signs 
are not of equal duration so that some signs take longer to completely rise above the 
horizon compared to the others. 
5. Signs can be divided into three groups, depending upon their rising periods (rashi 
maanas). 

Group A: Mesha, Kanya, Tula, Meena 
Group B: Vrisha, Simha, Vrischika, Kumbha 
Group C: Mithuna, Karka, Dhanu, Makara 

A sign belonging to one group takes the same time to rise as another belonging to the 
same group at the equator. The six signs from Karka to Dhanu lengthen and the 
remaining six shorten as one proceeds from the equator to the north pole. On the other 
hand, the signs from Makara to Mithuna lengthen, while the remaining ones shorten, as 
one proceeds from the equator to the south pole. 
6. For any given latitude, the rising period for different signs is fixed. 
7. As one moves away from the equator, certain signs lengthen while the others shorten 
as far as their rising period is concerned. That is, certain signs remain longer on the 
horizon than the others. 
8. Six signs elapse between sunrise and sunset, while the remaining six signs do so 
between sunset and sunrise. 
9. This means that in winter, when the days are shorter, the six zodiacal signs that rise 



successively during the day have a shorter time duration, while the remaining six have a 
longer time duration. This gives rise to signs of short ascension and those of long 
ascension. 
10. Signs of long ascension in the northern hemisphere are: Karka, Simha, Kanya, Tula, 
Vrischika and Dhanu. 
These are signs of short ascension for the southern latitudes 
II. Signs of short ascension in the northern hemisphere are: Makara, Kumbha, Meena, 
Mesha, Vrisha and Mithuna. 
These are the signs of long ascension for the southern latitudes. 
12. As one nears the poles, certain zodiacal signs fail to rise. 



The concept of sidereal time 

The earth rotates around its axis in 24 hours, in what may be termed a mean solar 
day. In other words, the mean solar day is a function of earth's rotation in relation to the 
Sun. Considered with reference to any fixed star in the zodiac, the earth completes its one 
rotation in approximately 23 hours and 56 minutes (23 hours, 56 minutes, 4.09 seconds, 
to be precise). One rotation ofthe earth in relation to a fixed star is called a sidereal day. 
Said in another manner, a sidereal day is the time interval between two successive transits 
of a fixed star over the meridian of a place. A sidereal day is 3 minutes and 56 seconds 
(or roughly 4 minutes) shorter than the mean solar day. 

A sidereal day consists of 24 sidereal hours. Time reckoned according to this 
method is called the sidereal time. Since the sidereal time considers the angular rotation of 
the earth in relation to the fixed stars ofthe zodiac, the earth will attain the same position 
with reference to the zodiac every day at the same sidereal time. In other words, for any 
location, for the same sidereal time, the disposition of the signs of the zodiac (including 
the rising sign, the setting sign, the tenth house, the 4th house, etc.) will be the same. This 
is the reason why it is essential to obtain the correct sidereal time for the purposes of 
erecting an astrological chart for any given moment of mean solar time as provided by 
the watch. 
Why is the mean solar day longer than the sidereal day? 

By the time the earth rotates once, with reference to a fixed star, i.e., in one sidereal 
day, the Sun has moved by approximately 1• further along the zodiac. In order for the 
earth to achieve the same position with reference to the Sun, it has to rotate an extra 1• 
thereby consuming approximately 4 additional minutes each day. 



Precession of Equinoxes 

The earth revolves around the Sun once in 365 days 5 hours 48 minutes and 46 
seconds. Considered from the earth, the Sun appears to complete one round of the 
ecliptic during this period. This is called a tropical year. In the span of a tropical year, the 
earth regains its original angular position with the Sun. It is also called the year of seasons 
since on this Earth-Sun cycle depends the occurrence, and timing, of seasons. If we 
consider the revolution of the Sun around the earth from one vernal equinox (around 
21st March, when the day and night all over the globe are equal) to the next vernal 
equinox, it takes one tropical year to do so. 

However, if at the end of a tropical year from one vernal equinox to the next, we 
consider the position of the earth with reference to a fixed star of the zodiac, the earth 
appears to lie some 50.26 seconds of celestial longitude to the west of its original 
position. In order for the earth to attain the same position with respect to a fixed star after 
one revolution, it takes a time span of 365 days 6 hours 9 minutes and some 9.5 seconds. 
This duration of time is called a sidereal year. The sidereal year is just over 20 minutes 
longer than the tropical year; this time difference is equivalent to 50.26 seconds of 
celestial longitude. 

Each year, the Vernal equinox will fall short by 50.26 seconds along the zodiac 
reckoned along the fixed stars. This continuous receding of the Vernal equinox along the 
zodiac is called as the precession of equinoxes. 

Cause of the precession: The earth rotates around its axis like a spinning top. In 
doing so, its north pole (and, therefore, the celestial pole), describes a circle of some 47 
degrees around the pole of the ecliptic. This, in other words, means that the plane of the 
equator intersects the plane of the ecliptic at a constantly shifting point. This point, the 
first point of Aries or the vernal equinox, goes on receding westward at a rate of 
approximately 50.26 seconds of arc each year. This is called the precession of the 
equinoxes. The result of this precession is a slow increase in the right ascensions of almost 
all fixed stars in the zodiac. This precession takes some 25,800 (or approximately 
26,000) years to complete one circle. As will be seen, an appreciation ofthis precession is 
of paramount importance in the understanding of the basic concepts of Vedic astrology. 



;"' 
To Polaris Toward Vega I 

----.. j 
Earth's axis _._..~A7 13,000 years 

rra.•t , fromnow 
J 

I 

Earth's Earth's 
orbit orbit 

a b 

The wobble of earth's axis in a clockwise direction causes the precession of 
equinoxes.The axis nowpoints towards Polaris (a); in approximately 

13,000 years, it will have moved to a point within a fewdegrees from Vega 
(b). 

Fixed and Movable zodiacs: The fixed or the sidereal zodiac considers the nakshatras as 
its basis. Its first degree begins as the first degree of Mesha (Aries) from a particular point 
in the Revati group of stars. There is another zodiac, however, which is reckoned from 
the Vernal equinoctial point; here the first point of Aries begins from the Vernal equinox. 
This is called the movable or the tropical zodiac. As has been seen, the movable zodiac 
continues to recede westward along the stars which characterise the fixed zodiac. 

Ayanamsha; the Say ana and the Niryana systems: It has been seen that because of the 
precession of equinoxes at a rate of 50.26 seconds per year, the distance between the 
Vernal equinox (the I st point of the movable zodiac) and the I st point ofMesha (Aries) 
on the fixed zodiac has been progressively increasing. This distance at any given epoch is 
called as the Ayanamsha. The ayanamsha thus indicates the difference between the fixed 
zodiac and the movable zodiac. The system that considers the fixed zodiac is called the 
Niryana (without ayana!) system, while the one that considers the movable zodiac is 
called the Sayana (with ayana!) system. The Niryana values of planetary longitudes can 
be obtained by subtracting the ayanamsha for a given time from the Sayana longitudes. 

The Niryana and the Sayana zodiacs coincided in the year 285 AD when the 
ayanamsha was zero. At the rate of precession of equinoxes stated above, the ayanamsha 
on the 1st ofJanuary, 1995 is 23"47'26". The equinoctial precession completes one round 
in approximately 26,000 years, as mentioned earlier, so that the fixed and movable 



zodiacs coincide regularly after this time span. The ayanamsha reckoned on the basis of 
considering the year 285 AD as the year when the Sayana and the Niryana zodiacs 
coincided is called the Chitrapaksha ayanamsha. 



Ancient method of time reckoning 

The Vedic seers had an elaborate method of reckoning time. They combined 
genius with religion so that it appealed to the intellectual and the devoted alike. There 
were several methods of reckoning time. One standard method was as follows: 
1 Asu (or Prana) = 4 (sidereal) seconds 
6 Asus = I sidereal Pala (or Vighati or Vinadi or 24 seconds) 
60 Pal as= 1 Ghati (24 minutes) 
60 Ghatis = 1 day (24 hours) 
30 days= 1 month 
l 2 months= 1 year 
43,20,000 years =1 Yuga 
72 Yugas = 1 Manu 
l 4 Manus= 1 Kalpa (or I 008 Yugas) 
2 Kalpas =A day and night ofBrahma 
30 day-nights ofBrahma = I month ofBrahma 
12 months ofBrahma = 1 year ofBrahma 
I 00 years of Brahma =Life of Brahm (or 1 Mahaka1pa) 
1n addition to the above, the following methods of reckoning of time were used for 
astrological purposes: 
1. Sidereal day = Time interval between one star-rise to the next. 
2. Civil day =Time interval between one sunrise to the next. 
3. Lunar month= One new moon to the next. 
4. Solar month =Interval between entry of Sun from one sign to the other. 
5. Solar year = Period of one solar revolution. 
6. Jupiterian (Barhaspatya) year= Period of Jupiter's motion through a sign. 



Circular divisions 

Measures of angles have been similarly described by Vedic astronomers. 
60 Pratatparas = I Tatpara 
60 Tatparas = I Viii pta (or Vi kala or second) 
60 Viii pta= I Lipta (or Kala or minute) 
60 Lipta = I Lava (or bhaga or amsha or degree) 
30 Lavas= I Rashi (Sign) 
12 Rashis = I celestial circle or a revolution 



Planets and the zodiac 

The planets revolve around the Sun at different velocities in elliptical orbits. They 
also appear to revolve around the earth in elliptical orbits. Says Parashara: 
"Although the grahas proceed towards the east, they appear as if they are moving in the 
westward direction, under the influence of the 'force of flow'." 
The following three factors are of importance: 

I. The rotation of the earth from west to east direction: Even as this causes the day 
as well as the night, it also makes the planets appear to be moving from east to west 
across the earth. 
2. Daily revolution of the zodiac from east to west: The rotation of the earth makes 
the whole zodiac also appear as if it is making one daily revolution around the earth. 
In one day-night duration, all the signs of the zodiac (and all the nakshatras) 
successively rise in the east and set in the west. 
3. The movement of the planets from west to east: Although the daily rotation of the 
earth makes the Sun and other planets appear to be moving from east to west, in 
effect they move from west to east along the zodiac. Thus a planet in Mesha will 
actually proceed to Vrisha, and then to Mithuna, and so on. 

Order of the planets: Aryabhata describes the order of planets thus: 
"Beneath the asterisms lie (the planets) Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, the Sun, Venus, 

Mercury and the Moon (one below the other); beneath them all lies the earth. " 
Planets as lords of days and Horas: Aryabhata continues: 
"The (above mentioned) seven planets beginning with Saturn, which are arranged 
in the order of increasing velocity, are the lords of the successive Horas. The planets 
occurring fourth in order of increasing velocity are the lords of the successive days, 
which are reckoned from sunrise. " 
There are 24 Horas in a day, each Hora being (approximately!) equivalent to an 

hour. The first Hora on a day, starting from sunrise, belongs to the lord of the day itself. 
Subsequent Horas follow in the order as given above, i.e., Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, 
Venus, Mercury, Moon, Saturn, etc., until the end of day at next sunrise. 

From Saturn, the fourth in order is the Sun; therefore, the Sun is the lord of the day 
following the day of Saturn. That is, Sunday follows Saturday. From the Sun, the fourth 
in order is the Moon. Therefore, Sunday is followed by the day of the Moon, i.e., 
Monday. 

Inner and Outer planets: The planets Mercury and Venus have their orbits between 
the Sun and the earth. They are called inner or inferior planets. These planets cannot go 
far away from the Sun. Mercury can only move a maximum of27 degrees from the Sun 
and Venus a maximum of47 degrees from the Sun. 

The planets Mars, Jupiter and Saturn, whose orbits lie outside the orbit of the earth, 
are called outer or superior planets. 



... .. 
. ..
  .. .... 
.    

... .
....    . .....

.        
...... , ....
 ... 
  
.. .:     

....    
...   

• Sun 

l J 
Phenomenon of apparent retrogression in an outer planet as viewed from the 

earth. 

Retrogression and direct motion: Planets move along the zodiac from west to east, 
around the Sun. However, when seen from the earth, sometimes their motion appears to 
be occurring in a reverse direction against the background of the stars. This apparent 
motion in the reverse direction is called as retrogression of planets and has special 
significance in predictive astrology. Rahu and Ketu, which are not true planets, however, 
always move in retrograde direction (see Chapter III). 



Combustion of planets: Planets when too close to the Sun become invisible and are 
labelled as combust. A combust planet loses its strength and tends to behave adversely 
according to predictive astrology. Aryabhata has the following to say about combustion: 

'When the Moon has no latitude (i.e., when it is at zero degree of latitude) it is 
visible when situated at a distance of 12 degrees from the Sun. Venus is visible when 9 
degrees distant from the Sun. The other planets taken in the order of decreasing sizes 
(viz., Jupiter, Mercury, Saturn and Mars) are visible when they are 9 degrees increased 
by twos (i.e., when they are 11, 13, 15 and 17 degrees) distant from the Sun.' 

The degrees as mentioned above are generally taken as the limits within which the 
respective planets are said to be combust. 



Planets as gods 

Planets represent concentrations of energy. They influence the terrestrial 
phenomena by their disposition in the heavens. The sage Parashara, the father of Vedic 
astrology as understood and practised today, considers the planets as the representatives 
of gods. According to him: 
(i) The Sun represents lord Rama. 
(ii) The Moon represents lord Krishna. 
(iii) Mars stands for lord Narsimha, the halfhuman-halflion form ofthe lord. 
(iv) Mercury represents lord Buddha. 
(v) Jupiter represents lord Vamana, who attained the form of a dwarf to rid the world of 
the rule of demons. 
(vi) Venus represents lord Parshurama. 
(vii) Saturn represents Kurma, the Tortoise incarnation ofthe lord. 
(viii) Rahu represents Sookar, the Boar incarnation ofthe lord. 
(ix) Ketu represents Meena, the Fish incarnation. 

Even as the lord, according to Gita, incarnates to safeguard the interests of the 
righteous and to punish the evil-doers, so also the planets undertake their benevolent and 
punitive actions. In other words, they behave as benefics and malefics in a horoscopic 
chart. All planets, true to their godly nature, produce both good and bad results. The 
actual results produced by them manifest according to the inherent nature of these 
planets. 



•••"•1"•1•"1• •• 
Elementary Concepts of Astronomy-11 

a:lati'tifil~'ffi;Q: 00: lfM~~{I~I~ I 
{1";4'UI~I~ Ut1TOU~ a~cuoa:m«~~ 11 
At the coming of (Brahma :1) day, all manifestation springs forth 
from the unmanifested (Brahma); at the coming of(Brahma 's) 
night it all merges in the same unmanifested. 

Gita VI1Vl8 



The Panchanga 

Knowledge of astrology finds its daily use in indian homes. All the Vedic rituals 
and even day to day pursuits make use of a knowledge of astrology. While predictive 
astrology was mainly restricted for the kings in ancient times, practical astrology in the 
form of what we call today as election a! astrology was of concern to the lay man as well. 
The Indian almanac which details information about the various festivals, rituals and 
planetary combinations for the purpose of election of a suitable moment, and has been in 
use since times immemorial, is called a Paneh ang a. 
A Panchanga consists of five parts: 

I . Tit hi or the lunar date; 
2. Vaara or the day of the week; 
3. Nakshatra or the lunar asterism; 
4. Yoga; and 
5. Karana. 
While Vaara or the day of the week is a function of the Sun alone, the other four 

parts of the Panchanga depend upon the disposition of the Moon alone or the Moon-Sun 
duo. The Moon thus has a special significance in Vedic astrology, besides the Sun. 



Lunar months 

The Moon goes around the earth once in a lunar month. Like other planets, it 
moves from west to east along the zodiac although the rotation of the earth makes it 
appear to be moving in the reverse direction. One revolution of the Moon around the 
earth produces what is called a lunar month. There are the following types of lunar 
months: 
I. The Sidereal month: This is a period of time during which the Moon makes one round 
of the zodiac, as observed from the earth. Its duration is equivalent to 27.3217 mean 
solar days (or 27 days 7 hours 43 minutes approximately). During this period the Moon, 
when observed against a fixed star, moves round the zodiac once and returns to the same 
star. 
2. The Synodic month: This is a period of time which elapses between one New Moon 
and the next. Its duration is 29.5306 mean solar days (or 29 days 12 hours 44 minutes 
approximately). The synodic month is also called a lunation. A New Moon indicates a 
conjunction of the Sun and the Moon. The synodic month is larger than a sidereal month 
because it indicates the relation of the Moon with the Sun. During one revolution of the 
Moon, the Sun too moves along the zodiac by slightly less than one sign. To catch up 
with the Sun (in order to complete a synodic month) the Moon, therefore, has to take 
some extra time. 
3. The Nodi cal month: The intersection of the ecliptic by the Moon's path results in the 
formation of the ascending and the descending nodes of the Moon, respectively known 
as Rahu and Ketu. They move in the reverse or retrograde direction along the zodiac. A 
nodical month is the time that the Moon takes to complete one round from Rahu to Rahu. 
Since Rahu moves in a retrograde direction, it meets the Moon slightly earlier along the 
zodiac. The duration of the nodical month is approximately 27.2122 mean solar days. 
4. The Anomalistic month: This is the duration of time that the Moon takes to complete 
one revolution around the earth, in its orbit from perigee to perigee. Its duration is 
approximately 27.5546 mean solar days. 
Note: 

The Moon loops around the earth in an elliptical orbit, just as the earth does around 
the Sun. The orbit itself is in constant flux due to perturbations caused by the Sun and the 
planets. Perigee is the point at which a body (the Moon in this case!) in orbit around the 
earth is at the least distance from the earth. lts reverse is called as Apogee, which signifies 
that a body in orbit around the earth is at its farthest from the earth. 

An anomalistic lunar month is the lunar equivalent to the solar anomalistic year 
which indicates the passage of the Sun around the earth from perigee to perigee (or, in 
fact, the passage of the earth around the Sun from perihelion to perihelion!). 

Perihelion and Aphelion are the equivalents of perigee and apogee, with the Sun 
(Helios=Sun) as the centre and the planets orbiting around it. 



Cycles of the Moon 

A lunar year, generally considered for astrological purposes, is a synodic year 
consisting of twelve synodic months amounting to a duration of approximately 354 days. 
It contains 360 tithis or lunar dates (30 tithis in a synodic month). This year falls short of 
a solar year, of about 365.25 days, by about eleven days. 

If a totally lunar calendar were followed, the various seasons would fail to coincide 
with the lunar months, since a lunar year would end eleven days earlier than a solar year. 
This would mean a difference of over a month every three solar years. In order to 
compensate for this, and to make the solar and lunar calendars function side by side, a 
luni-solar concept has been developed so that an extra lunar month is considered 
approximately every three years, or earlier. This extra lunar month which is periodically 
taken into consideration in order to bring harmony between the solar and the lunar 
calendars is called an intercalary month. The use of various 'Yugas' consisting of three 
year cycles, five year cycles, eight year cycles, eleven year cycles, nineteen year cycles 
and thirty year cycles, etc., signified brilliant attempts by Indian pre-Vedic astronomers to 
harmonise the solar and lunar years. The nineteen year cycle appears to be the most 
accurate 'observed' Yuga or cycle. It consists of seven intercalary months over a period 
of nineteen solar years. This in other words means that in a period of 228 solar months, 
there are 235 lunar synodic months (New Moons or Full Moons). 

The Metonic Cycle: Consistent with the above observations is the discovery by 
Meton (433 BC) that there occur 235 lunations in a period of nineteen solar years. It will 
be seen that total number of days in nineteen years (19 x 365 .2422) comes to 6939.60 
days. Total number of days in 235 lunar synodic months (235 x 29 .5306) comes to 
6939.69 days. The two figures are remarkably close. This means that a period of nineteen 
years or 228 solar months (19 x 12.228) is equal to 235 lunar months or 19 lunar years 
plus seven lunar months. We have already observed above that there occur seven 
intercalary months in nineteen years. 

The nineteen years luni-solar cycle is so accurate that the tithis or lunar dates recur 
or fall on similar days after exactly nineteen years. Even such astronomical phenomenon 
as the eclipses recur after nineteen year intervals with fair precision. 

Adhika-Maasa or the Intercalary month: The Sun changes its sign or rashi every 
month. The day it enters a sign is called as its ingress into that sign. A lunar month in 
which there is no solar ingress into a sign is considered an intercalary month. An 
intercalary month occurs once in 32 (solar) months and 16 days. This means that roughly 
once in three years there is an intercalary month; during this year, there are thirteen lunar 
months. 

Kshaya Maasa or Omitted month: This happens when there are two solar ingresses 
(i.e., the Sun enters two signs) during one lunar month. This happens very infrequently. 
When there is an omitted month, there occur two intercalary months during one year. 

Paksha: A paksha consists of fifteen lunar dates. Two pakshas make a lunar month. 
A Krishna-paksha extends from Poomima (or Full Moon) to Amavasya (or New Moon). 
A Shukla-paksha extends from New Moon to Full Moon. 



Moon's Nodes 

The Moon's apparent path intersects the ecliptic obliquely at two points called the 
nodes. This is similar to the Sun's path or ecliptic intersecting the equator at an oblique 
angle. The point where the Moon crosses the ecliptic from south to north is called the 
ascending node or Rahu. Where it crosses the ecliptic from north to south is called the 
descending node or Ketu. These two points are six signs or 180 degrees apart. Just as the 
equinoctial point shifts westwards on the ecliptic, so also the Moon's orbit intersects the 
ecliptic at a constantly shifting point. Thus, Rahu and Ketu go on receding or shifting 
westward along the ecliptic. Their movement is, therefore, constantly retrograde. They 
complete one round of the zodiac in approximately eighteen years and ten days. 

Rahu and Ketu, though only astronomical points, have a special status in Vedic 
astrology. They are treated as grahas or planets, like any other planet. 

/ Earth's orbit 

Moon's orbit/ 

The orbit of the earth around the Sun and that of the Moon around the earth. 
Rahu and Ketu are formed where the Moon's orbit intersects the apparent 

path ofthe Sun around the earth. 



The Eclipses 

There are two kinds of eclipses: 
1. Solar eclipses, and 
2. Lunar eclipses. 
A solar eclipse occurs when the shadow of the Moon falls on the earth. This means 

that at the time of a solar eclipse, the Moon happens to lie between the Sun and the earth. 
This occurs on a New Moon day, when the Sun and the Moon are conjunct and happen 
to lie on the same side of the earth. Since the orbit of the Moon is tilted at an angle of 
approximately 5 degrees to the ecliptic, the Sun-Moon-earth trio do not always fall on 
one straight line on every New Moon day. That is why the eclipse does not occur every 
time there is a New Moon. 

Penumbra 

}· Umbra 

Orbit of Moon 
Total eclipse '·· 

Moon 

To Sun Earth 
Lunar Eclipse 



. 
•• •.   

'.,.M oon 
• 

Path of 

..... .. . . Total Eclipse 
 .•  

Sunlight .... 
Solar Eclipse 

A lunar eclipse occurs when the Moon lies opposite to the Sun with the earth 
intervening between the two. The shadow of the earth falls on the Moon. This happens 
on a Full Moon day when the Sun-earth-Moon trio fall in one straight line. Again, 
because ofthe obliquity of the Moon's path to the ecliptic, this situation does not arise at 
every Full Moon. 

It has been pointed out that the Moon's path crosses the Sun's path at the ascending 
and the descending nodes (i.e., Rahu and Ketu). The Moon must, therefore, be fairly 
close to Rahu and Ketu, and the Sun too must be close enough, to ensure that the earth, 
the Sun and the Moon fall on a straight line. "Swallowed by Rahu" is an expression 
applied to the eclipsed luminary. 

A solar eclipse is likely to occur if a New Moon occurs within 18\1, degrees of the 
node (Rahu or Ketu) and certainly if the distance is less than 15 degrees. A lunar eclipse 
occurs on a Full Moon day (i.e., the Sun and the Moon are opposite to each other). It is 
likely to occur when the distance between the Moon and the node is less than 12 degrees, 
and certainly if it is less than about 9Yz degrees. A maximum of seven eclipses (four or 
five solar eclipses; three or two lunar eclipses) are possible in any given year. 



Tithis or Lunar Dates 

There are thirty lunar dates or tithis, of 12 degrees each (30 x 12 = 360 degrees). A 
tithi is indicative of the Moon's separation from the Sun. It is obtained by subtracting the 
longitude of the Sun from the longitude of the Moon, and dividing the above value by 
twelve. The quotient plus one gives the number of the tithi operating on any particular 
day. Thus, 

(Moon - Sun) divided by 12 

Tit hi= Q +I 

Shukla Paksha 

Full ew 
Moon Midnight ~ N

Noon. Moon Sunlight 

··------

Krishna Paksha 
·------
··------

Third quarter 
Phases oft he Moon 

The tithis are counted from the 1st of the bright half or Shnkla-paksha. The Sun's 
conjunction with the Moon coincides with the 30th tithi or Amavasya. When the Moon 
overtakes the Sun, but lies within its 12 degrees, it is the 1st lunar date of the Shukla-
paksha. At 180 degree separation, with the Moon opposed to the Sun, it is the 15th of the 
Shukla-paksha, called as Poornima. From here onwards starts the Krishna-paksha or the 
darker half. The tithis here again start from the I st, and go upto th 15th or Amavasya, 
when the Moon and the Sun conjoin. 

A tithi that is operating at the time of sunrise, on a particular day, is the tithi that is 



supposed to be operating on that whole day. 
Vriddhi or additional tithi: A tithi that extends from before sunrise on one day to 

after sunrise on the next day is called as a Vriddhi tithi. Such a tithi operates on two 
successive days. 

Kshaya or omitted tithi: A tithi that begins after a sunrise and ends before the next 
sunrise is called a Kshaya tithi. This tithi is supposed to miss its operation during that 
lunar cycle. 

Tithi is extremely important in performing day to day rituals and ceremonies, and 
in electional astrology. 



There are twenty seven Yogas. Each one measures 13°20' of arc (360° + 27 = 
13°20'). A Yoga indicates a sum of the longitudes of the Moon and the Sun in multiples 
of 13°20'. Although this measure of a Yoga is the same as that of a Nakshatra (which has 
been already dealt with), there is no link between the two. Add the Niryana longitudes of 
the Sun and the Moon and divide by 13°20'. The quotient plus one gives the number of 
the Yoga from the first one (Vishkumbha) onwards. The twenty-seven Yogas are listed 
below: 

I. Vishkumbha 
2. Preeti 
3. Ayushman 
4. Saubhagya 
5. Shobhana 
6. Atiganda 
7. Sukarma 
8. Dhriti 

9. Shoola 

10. Ganda 
II. Vriddhi 
12. Dhruva 
13. Vyaghata 
14. Harshana 

15. Vajra 
16. Siddhi 
17. Vyatipata 
18. Variyana 

19. Parigha 
20. Shiva 
2l.Siddha 

22. Sadhya 
23. Shubha 
24. Shukla 
25. Brahma 



26. lndra 
27. Vaidhriti 

Yogas, like tithis, find extensive use in electional astrology and day to day rituals. 



Karana 

A Karana is half a tithi, or 360 minutes (6 degrees) of arc. ln thirty tithis 
comprising a lunar month, there are sixty half-tithis or Karanas. 

There are four Karanas that occur only once in a lunar month. They are the fixed 
Karanas and called as: 
I.Shakuni: assigned to the latter half of the 14th day of Krishna-paksha. 
2.Chatushpada: assigned to the firSt half of the Amavasya (15th day of Krishna-paksha). 
3.Naga: assigned to the latter half of the Amavasya. 
4.Kimstughna: assigned to the first half of the firSt day of the Shukla-paksha. 
The remaining seven Karanas recur eight times during rest of the lunar month. Their 
names are: 
I. Bava 
2. Balava 
3. Kanlava 
4. Taitila 
5. Gara 
6. Vanija 
7. Vishti 
These Karanas recur in regular order starting from the second half of the first day of 
Shukla-paksha until the firSt half of the 14th day of the Krishna-paksha. 
Karanas too find their use in rituals as well as electional astrology. 



Some Astronomical Facts about Planets 

The following is a very brief description of the planets (the Sun, the Moon, the 
planets and Rahu-Ketu) which are of relevance in Vedic astrology. 
Sun 

This is the most important of the nine grahas (or "planets"). In fact, the Sun is our 
nearest star in space with planets revolving around it. It is the source of all the natural 
light and heat of the earth. It provides the centripetal force to balance the centrifugal 
force generated by the planets going around it. Its diameter is 1.392 million kilometres, 
which is almost 109 times the diameter ofthe earth. The mass of the Sun is some 323,000 
times the mass of the earth. It has extremely high surface and core temperatures, and goes 
on producing immense amounts of energy. At one time the Sun was considered the 
centre of the universe (this does not appear to be the view ever held by the Vedic 
scholars!). Now we know that it lies near the edge of a spiral arm of the Milky Way 
galaxy, lying some 30,000 light years away from the galactic centre, and sharing the 
general rotation of the galaxy. 
Moon 

It is a satellite of the earth. In Vedic astrology it is of paramount importance. It is 
the fastest moving of the 'grahas' and has the usual west to east movement along the 
zodiac. It has a relatively small size, its diameter being only about 3476 kilometres. Its 
average distance from the earth is about 384,400 kilometres (or roughly 239,000 miles). 
It always presents the same face toward the earth. This is possible by the fact that it takes 
the same time to rotate once on its axis as it does to revolve once around the earth in its 
orbit (i.e., 27.32 days). Since the rotation around the axis is a uniform motion, while the 
motion in orbit is not, we are sometimes able to see an extra strip of the Moon's surface 
on one side or the other. Some 59% of the total surface of the Moon may thus be visible 
to us on the earth at one time or the other. This phenomenon is called Liberation. 

The luminosity of the Moon is caused by light from the Sun. It is the varying 
relative positions of the Sun and the Moon that produce the phases of the Moon. These 
lunar phases, earlier discussed as tithis, are extremely important in Vedic astrology. 
Mars 

Mars is the first of the outer planets and the fourth in order of distance from the 
Sun (the others being Mercury, Venus and the earth). Its orbit is highly elliptical 
(compared to the near circular orbit of the earth), so that at its closest position to the earth 
it may only be about 56 million kilometres from the earth, while at its farthest it may 
reach I 00 million kilometres. The brilliance of Mars in the sky thus depends upon its 
location in the orbit. Mars is only twice as large as our Moon, its diameter being 6786 
kilometres. It is at a mean distance of227 .8 million kilometres from the Sun. 

The synodic period of Mars is 780 days, which is the interval between Martian 
oppositions to the Sun, with the earth lying in between. Mars rotates on its own axis in 
1.026 days and has an orbital period (i.e., period of sidereal revolution) of 687 days 
(1.881 years). Mars has two small satellites called Phobos and Deimos. 
Mercury 

Mercury is the planet nearest to the Sun. Its proximity to the Sun makes it 



extremely hot. It has a very eccentric orbit so that its minimum distance from the Sun 
(perihelion) is much less than its maximum distance (aphelion). It may be noted that a 
planet has its maximum orbital speed at perihelion and minimum at aphelion. Its mean 
distasnce from the Sun is approximately 58 million kilometres. Mercury has a diameter of 
about 4870 kilometres, and its orbit has a maximum inclination of about 7 degrees on 
either side of the ecliptic. Mercury rotates once around its axis in 58.65 days which is 
quite precisely two-thirds of its orbital period of about 88 earth days. 
Jupiter 

Jupiter is the largest planet of the solar system, its mass exceeding that of all the 
other planets combined. Its rapid spin (once in about 9 hours and 50 minutes) has caused 
it to bulge at its equator (diameter approx. 143,000 kilometres) and to flatten at the poles 
(diameter approx. 133,000 kilometres). It is 318 times as massive as the earth but less 
than a thousandth part of the Sun. Its mean distance from the Sun is 778 million 
kilometres. It has an orbital period of 11.86 earth years. 

Being far away from the Sun, Jupiter is a cold planet with its gaseous cloud having 
a temperature of some 140°C below freezing point. There are several satellites (perhaps 
upto sixteen!) which circle around Jupiter. 
Venus 

Venus is the second nearest planet to the Sun. Its dense cloudy atmosphere reflects 
light extremely efficiently and accounts for the brilliance of this planet in the sky. The 
maximum inclination of its orbit is about 3°24' on either side of the ecliptic. It is located 
at a mean distance of 108 million kilometres, and has a diameter of about 12,000 
kilometres. 

The rotation period of Venus is 242.6 days. An important fact about the rotation of 
Venus is that it is retrograde, that is opposite to the general direction of rotations in the 
solar system. The orbital period of Venus is about 224.7 days. 
Saturn 

It is the last of the naked eye planets. Its mean distance from the Sun is 1426 
million kilometres. Its rotation period is approximately 10 hours 14 minutes, and its 
orbital period is 29.46 years. Saturn has a diameter of over 120 thousand kilometres at 
the equator. Being further away from the Sun, Saturn is a cold planet. It is larger than the 
rest of the planets (except Jupiter) and is about 95 times as massive as the earth. Its 
characteristic feature is the presence of rings around it. At least twenty satellites are 
known to revolve around the planet. 

Th eextra-saturnine planets (Uranus, Neptune and Pluto) need the help of a 
telescope for their identification. They do not form a part of predictive Vedic astrology 
and are, therefore, not treated of here. 



... IV. .. 

Vedic Method of Instruction: An Illustration 

It is the Sun that rises - the Sun that possesses a thousand rays, 
exists in a hundred forms and is the life of all creatures. 

Prashna Upanishad I/8 

Ancient Indian teaching methods involved a personal instruction by the teacher to 
his disciple. The teacher, called as 'Guru', would generally live in seclusion, away from 
city life, and have a select group of disciples, called 'Shishyas'. It would only be the 
good fortune of a 'shishya' if he managed to secure a good 'guru'. Similarly, a great 
'guru' would strive to find a deserving disciple. The teacher-disciple relation used to be a 
highly affectionate relationship, with the teacher commanding the same, nay more, 
reverence from his disciples as the latter owed to their parents. 

The ancient historical records of India find their place in the Puranas. In these 
Puranas, generally there is a story being told by an elevated sage to one or more seekers 
ofknowledge. In one of the earliest of the Puranas, called the Sri Vishnu Purana, there is 
a dialogue between the celebrated sage Parashara and 
his worthy disciple Maitreya. The disciple wants to know from his teacher the method of 
the Creation, the cycles of creation and annihilation, and the cause behind these cycles. 
Sage Parashara happened to be the father of sage Vyasa, the compiler of the Mahabharata 
as well as the Vedas and several Puranas. The Mahabharata coincided with the beginning 
of the Kali era which is equivalent to 3102 BC. In other words, this dialogue between 
Parashara and Maitreya is well over five thousand years old. 

During their discussion, sage Parashara briefly mentions about the Sun god, the 
nakshatras and the zodiacal signs. This happens in Canto 2, Chapter 8 of the Vishnu 
Purana. Those shlokas (reverent stanzas) as are relevant to our subject are being presented 
here, along with author's comments, in order to show the profundity of knowledge 
possessed by the Vedic scholars, as also their simple and lucid method of instruction. 

It may be clarified here that all discussion considers the tropical or Sayana zodiac 
and not the sidereal or Nirayana zodiac, for reasons not too difficult to appreciate. 
Shloka-11 



3'1~,1{1 ~&lq ~ HCfli{U( ~IJ lqlstfct: I 

·~qi~H: 'tf"{: Y-2-lltq'lilHI. Cfc.1~1fi-S~~II1111 

T11e Sun god is the cause of occurrence of the day and the night. 
He ,for the liberated yogi, is the channel to higher regions. 

Comments: The rotation of the earth, or the apparent movement of the Sun across 
the heavens around the earth, leads to the formation ofthe day and the night. 

The second part of the shloka corroborates the view of the Gita that elevated 
liberated souls take to the path of the Sun to reach the higher regions. Illustrating subtle 
truths through a flavour of religious philosophy is a typical Indian method of teaching. 
Shloka 12 

.r c~ qflf<q { Fcct4~v'::f  flqC.. hiC?I'·  ~q nf2 Rf:l 
{1 cf ~1 qg ) q~  ~ f~ ~II ;t;~ -:q '8 tog@ : I 112 I I 

0' Maitreya! The Sun god remains in all regions in mid-heaven 
at mid-day; in the opposing ones, at midnight. 

Comments: Mid-heaven for any place is the meridian which is crossed by the Sun 
at mid-day. For those places which are located exactly opposite, the same position is 
achieved at midnight. When the Sun is at mid-heaven, a zenith for a given place, it is at 
nadir for a place located exactly opposite, and vice versa. In a horoscopic chart, the mid-
heaven indicates the 1Oth house, and the nadir the 4th house. 
Shlokas 13, 14 

dG:tqlfC14~ ~ flcfCfliC?I. "9: '8Wj@ I 
~~~~II'« fCl ~··I t:t I~ 'C1'2TI ~~i fa:~ II 'tl -:cf I 131 I 
4~.  4,.  3i ' ""·

1~ ~ C1 ~II fCII .. fl -:rd" ':T"t:t T"T"Iljr.:r~..,.4 : ~: I 

fuU"-TT'Ci -:q ~~fct (j~qlfC14'i. ~:111411 



In a similar manner, sunrise and sunset are opposite to each 
other. 0 'Brahmin! Residents of all directions and angles, where 
(at the end of the night) they see the Sun they call it sunrise, and 
where (at the end of the day) they see the Sun disappear they call 
it the sunset. 

Comments: Just as zenith and nadir are opposite positions, so are the sunrise and the 
sunset. The sunrise and the sunset are different for different places; these are terms which 
are used by different people for convenience to describe what looks like the appearance 
and the disappearance of the Sun. In a horoscope, the rising (of a sign) coincides with the 
first house, and the setting with the seventh house. 
Shloka 15 

Ever consistent in its position, the Sun god in effect neither rises 
nor sets. Only His being seen or being lost to vision are labelled 
as His rise and His setting. 

Comments: The sage clarifies the relatively fixed position of the Sun compared to 
the Earth. The Sun remains where it is, and what appears as rising or setting is not 
primarily a function of the Sun. It is the rotation of the earth which makes the Sun appear 
and disappear at regular intervals. 
Shloka 18 

: 
ac;: ;q IH P+"'I 'afT ":Cf fllF1 
41 q CS:H::c11 'd qf a (11 q ffrB ":Cf -qrP4 ;q'1: I 118 I I 

The very rising and setting of the Sun has caused the east and 
the west directions. In effect, the way He illumines the east, even 
so He does the west, as well as the south and the north. 

Comments: The east and west directions are dependent upon the directions of the 
apparent rise and the setting of the Sun. On its own part, the Sun has nothing to do with 
these as he illumines all the areas equally. The north, south, east and west directions are a 
consequence of earth's rotation. 
Shloka 26 



~ ~ t:cf) {~ v.f.1 ~ <nfcr fC!:ctl Cf) { : I 

~'lOJI11-1 ~~e\~IH"IC::I 4t'ifcfCh"l llfu:ll2611 
Thus, when, after reaching the middle of the Pushkaradweepa, 
the Sun traverses the thirtieth part of (its apparent course 
around) the earth, its movement is considered to be of one 
Muhurta. 

Comments: A Muhurta is a unit of time. It is equal to one-thirtieth part of the 
duration of a day-night, which is sixty Ghatis or twenty four hours. A Muhurta is equal to 
two Ghatis or 48 minutes. 
Shloka 27 

,. ' ' ~ 
~ct-=c:~1I~c.1::r""~=$h:.T-I'Tq4 -ri-:-d::rTI ~ CJ ==1 t:f +=iiO\.-::CI:n-1 =Cfl_,.< : I 

'Cf){,IC'4~'Rtm "@i fct ~::iJfct•:ff ~I 1271 I 

O'Dwija! Like one revolving at the circumference of a potter's 
wheel, this Sun traverses all the thirty parts of the Earth (i.e., 30 
parts ofthe zodiac) in one day-night. 

Comments: As has been commented above, a Muhurta is a unit of time and not an 
arc of the zodiac. Since the movements of the Sun, as well as other planets, is not uniform 
or linear, the Sun need not traverse an arc equal to one-thirtieth part of the zodiac in one 
Muhurta. But during one day-night, the Sun does go round the earth once. There are thus 
thirty Muhurtas in a span of one day-night. 
Shloka 2$ 

0 'Dwija! At the beginning of the Uttarayana, the Sun, first of 
all, goes to the Makara rashi (the sign Capricorn). Thereafter, 
He goes to Kumbha (Aquarius) and Meena (Pisces), traversing 
one rashi after the other. 

Comments: Uttarayana is the northerly course of the Sun. It begins from the 
moment the Sun enters the sign Capricorn around 22nd December, i.e., when it has 



attained the maximum south declination of 23 o 28'. The northern hemisphere has the 
shortest day and the longest night at this time. The Sun next passes through Kumbha and 
Meena. 
Shloka 29 

F5JI:it ate t 2l :rJ ~ <1C1T ~ ~ ar ~ ,f tll{, 
Sill I fd fi fq dI  ,.. " 

Having savoured of these three rashis, the Sun, equalising the 
day and night takes recourse to a balanced pace (at the 
beginning of the sign Mesha). 

Comments: That is, the Sun causes a balance at the time of its entering the sign 
Mesha or Aries. This happens around 21st March when the day and night are equal, and 
the Sun has attained zero declination. In general discussions, the planets are considered as 
masculine. Their passage through rashis, generally held to be feminine, is considered as 
an act of savouring or relishing these rashis. 

Shlokas 30-31 

crcn "UBr: a~~ <:tias~ ~113011 
(f(fXCf fi::rq'iflll-€1 "tffi Cf') I td 113)4 P ld : I 
~ Cf') ch 2Cf'). Sll '"4 Cfi '<l ct cfa_~ ol lli,..P{ l 131 I I 

Thereafter, the night progressively shortens and the day 
lengthens. Quitting the Mithuna (Gemini) rashi (after traversing 
Mesha and Vrisha - Aries and Taurus), having attained the 
culmination of Uttarayana, he reaches the Karka (Cancer) rashi 
and begins the Dakshinayana. 

Comments: Zero degree Mesha is the positiOn of vernal equinox. Thereafter, the 
Sun continues its northerly course through Vrisha and Mithuna, until it attains a 
maximum north declination of 23 "28 1 at the beginning of Karka when the northern 
hemisphere has the longest day and the shortest night. This happens around 21st June. 
Thereafter, the Sun commences the Dakshinayana or its southerly course. 

Shlokas 32-33 



~ ' ~ ~~ 
~Cft""""'(1~1~(1'Y""~...,..,§F>~q. ,.;.<'i _,=<1~1 <:f2IT ~ II 'C;I ~ ch1 d I 

~e:iOISl~*i<f'R1~ ~11\l ~q=cfd 132 I 
3"1 Fct~ n1c t lll ' 

Just as one sitting at the circumference of a potter's wheel moves 
very fast, so the Sun crosses the Dakshinayana at a faster pace. 
Thus He traverses His eminent path at a rapid pace, in a short 
span of time, as if driven by the force of a fast wind. 

Comments: The Sun's path is the twelve signs of the zodiac. The sage here points to 
the last day of the Dakshinayana, or winter solistice, when the Sun traverses the day at a 
faster pace. This holds true for the northern hemisphere where, at the end of 
Dakshinayana or the beginning of Uttarayana, the day is short and the night long. This is 
further explained in the subsequent Shlokas. 

Shloka 34 

O'Dwija! While in Dakshinayana, due to His fast pace during 
the day, the Sun traverses the thirteen-and-a-half nakshatras in 
twelve Muhurtas. But during the night, due to Its slower pace, It 
traverses as many nakshatras in eighteen Muhurtas. 

Comments: The following facts emerge from this Shloka: 
I. It is the last day of the Dakshinayana that is meant here. 
2. The Sun has to traverse half the zodiac (thirteen-and-a-half nakshatras, equivalent to 
six rashis or signs) during day time and the remaining half during night-time. 
3. Since at the end of the Dakshinayana, the day is the shortest and the night the longest, 



the six signs of the zodiac that emerge at the horizon during day-time, one after the other, 
do so at a faster pace. 
4. Since the end of the Dakshinayana or the beginning of the Uttarayana coincides with 
the Sun's entry into Makara, the six signs starting from Makara (which rises with the 
sunrise at the time of shifting from Dakshinayana to Uttarayana) have a shorter duration 
while the remaining six (from Karka onwards) have a longer duration. 
The signs Karka (Cancer) to Dhanu (Sagittarius) are thus the signs of long ascension, 
while those from Makara (Capricorn) to Mithuna (Gemini) are the signs of short 
ascension. At the time of winter solstice, the signs of long ascension rise during the night 
and those of short ascension rise during the day. 
5. The preceding two shlokas apply to the northern hemisphere. The reverse holds true 
for the southern hemisphere. Thus, in the southern hemisphere, the signs Karka to Dhanu 
are the signs of short ascension while those from Makara to Mithuna are those of long 
ascension. 
The longest day in the northern hemisphere coincides with the shortest day in the 
southern hemisphere. Or, the longest night in the northern hemisphere coincides with the 
shortest night in the southern hemisphere. 
6. The sage apparently had his hermitage in some part of north India where the duration 
of the day could reach upto 12 Muhurtas (nine hours and thirty-six minutes) and that of 
the night upto 18 Muhurtas (fourteen hours and twenty four minutes) at the end of 
Dakshinayana. 
Shloka 35 

'Cfi<11d"Ct9hl4'tZR=m <:rzrr ~ SHiYfq I 
l4=<tfei9hl4: I 135 I I 

The Sun moves at a slower pace during the Uttarayana, like one 
settled at the middle portion of the potter's wheel. 

Comments: As is apparent in the subsequent shlokas, it is the end of the Uttarayana 
or the summer solistice which is meant here. 
Shlokas 36-38 



d{ "l! It ) "clo I ChI t1 ""i ~~"P""I <.;:q I "U ~ Ii 0 fct I 
3'1bll<!:~ I :f'~cf l! s;cl \Ill 01 qf~:ql"ll{l 1361 I 
~'i!ctld 'd:at:41fq i!{C1l"l;::({fq9f>l"l:l 13711 
5ili'l<!:~ll4l"lt""il TI "5ft2.WJIT ~{({fq: I 

:i~.JffC11ct ~e_nfUr -U5fr t;.IC!:~I f·q.?-~11381 I 

Therefore, at this time, He traverses a smaller circumference of 
the earth in a very long time, so that the last day of Uttarayana is 
ofa duration ofeighteen Muhurtas. On this day too, the Sun, 
moving at a very slow pace, traverses the thirteen-and-a-half 
nakshatras, constituting halfthe zodiac, in one day's time. At 
night, however, He crosses the same number of nakshatras in 
twelve Muhurtas. 

Comments: The last day of Uttarayana is the reverse of the last day of 
Dakshinayana. The signs of long ascension (from Karka to Dhanu) rise during the day 
while those of short ascension (from Makara to Mithuna) rise during the night. 
Shloka 39-40 

ttf(Gos ~11~m ~ ~l"lfd if<Tmll3911 
&l(1k1il$h<ilf~ (;f~ d~ct ctcf81 
~ ~ 4~ll d~C{ qf{qcfctll4011 

Just as the nave of a wheel rotates at a very slow pace along with 
the slow rotation of the central portion of the wheel (compared to 
its mid-portion and the circumference), so also the Dhruva (the 
pole star) located in the centre of the Jyotisha-Chakra rotates at 



a vel}' slow pace. Maitreya! Just as the central axis of the potter's 
wheel rotates around itself, the Dhruva too rotates on itself in a 
similar manner. 

Comments: The pole star (called as Dhruva in the Puranas because of its fixed 
position) is very close to the true position of the north celestial pole. It is only about 1° 
away from the true north pole. The pole star is considered as the nave of a huge celestial 
wheel. Innumerable invisible spokes are supposed to issue forth from it to attach 
individually to the innumerable stars and planets which all revolve around it, along with 
the rotation of the pole star around its axis. Thus the various heavenly bodies retain their 
relative angular relationship with each other as well as the pole star. 
Shloka 41 

4o:s (11 r~ g:1 
Rql ~ ":cj 'l{4P"l 4::<!:1 ~flt;JI ":cj it 1lftr:ll4111 

Revolving in a circular fashion between the northern and 
southern limits, the pace of the Sun, during the day and night, 
varies between slow and fast. 

Comments: This is self-explanatory in view of the comments made earlier. 
Shloka 42 

- - . 
G::e:t r~1 llffli?tll~ ~ n'CJI 1m ~ Tfftr: 1 

In whichever Ayana, the Sun's pace is slower during the day, Its 
pace at night is faster. And whenever its pace at night is faster, its 
pace during the day is slower. 

Comments: Same thing said in two ways. The reverse of the above observation too 
holds true. 
Shloka 43-45 



Q\Cfi~41014~·tJ -rwi "lfTftr fa:ctiCfl<:l 

3'1~·,{1~01 ~ :l-5:._:4 '814fC11 {1~1'~-fl ffi ...i.. ll4311 
.., " ... "" . ,..... 

tJ:sct u~lli m 'l-J~ifi <l~lct::<:ll~ 6J~G:ctlll4411 
,.. r; 1"\ ,. ~ 

{II~ I ~41 Ul"i 1C11 G:l£1~{ fq l\l4C11 ~~..,I 

-om f1~11<:~l <1~011 ~41cfidq{p::IC11114SII 
O'Dwija! The Sun always traverses the same distance. In a day-
night span, He savours of all the (twelve) rashis. The Sun enjoys 
its course through six rash is during the day and six rashis during 
the night. Variations in the duration of the day depend upon the 
extent ofthe rashis. Variations in the duration ofthe night too 
depend upon the extent of the rashis. 

Comments: Earlier it was stated that the Sun travelled through thirteen-and-a-half 
nakshatras during the day and a similar number of them at night. That means six rashis 
during the day and six during the night. This has been explained earlier. 

It must be emphasised that it is not the Sun that traverses these rashis during the 
day-night span. It is the twelve rashis that successively rise at the eastern horizon during 
the twenty four hours. The Sun only appears to move around the earth. However, in a 
horoscope, the Sun passes through six houses of the chart as the six signs rise during the 
day; similarly it passes through six houses of the horoscopic chart as the other six signs 
rise during the night. The location of the Sun in a horoscope thus indicates the time of the 
day the horoscope is cast for. 

When the signs of long ascension rise during the day, the day is longer and the 
night shorter. When those of short ascension do so, the day is shorter and the night 
longer. 
Shlokas 46-47 



k"''l~e}c:ft;_._{fct(ct ~~~P-.I~ct \Jilllc' tl 
~ Sl9h~ ~llt;ll Fil~l LJ::G:I J!RI fci\t11 146 I I 

Upon His course through the rashis depend the prolixity and 
brevity of the day and night. While in (at the end of!) Uttarayana 
the Sun's pace is faster during the night and slower during the 
day. During the (concluding part of) Dakshinayana, the reverse 
is true. 

Comments: The reverse holds true for the southern latitudes. Repetition of the same 
concept emphasises the significance inherent in it. 

Shloka 6$ 

Cfich2Jct ff2fcf ~ ~~ Ollll 'ilj)"Oq ct I 
d'd {Ill oI L J Oj)'d; LJCf) {fif f~ct IC f) {I 168 I I 

Sun 's entry into Karka is called Dakshinayana and His entry into 
Makara indicates Uttarayana. 

Comments: Self-explanatory. 

Shloka 69 

f~~ I ::gg~ef ~~ C1 q~'l {i3f TI t!F4llll 

'ffiR q':qa:~ I ~~ i "'CJSI ~fll ft.1tfll! d1 1691 I 

Brahmin! The day-night conslStmg of thirty Muhurtas that I have 
already described, such fifteen day-nights constitute a 'Paksha '. 

Comments: Half the lunar cycle, from New Moon to Full Moon or from Full Moon 
to New Moon, is also called a Paksha. It is Krishna Paksha between Full Moon and New 
Moon, and Shukla Paksha between New Moon and Full Moon. 

Shloka 70 



"tl"m: '  "1'  h£ ' I m~.- q I fl,l,  -:q""l ,. 
'tl~a t:.4 C fl~>Si~l< i~§): I 

?f£1?14. iUG44"1·~.s~· qt:fB'Gf~fll7011 

Oft wo Pakshas is a month. Two solar months make a Ritu and 
three Ritus make an Ayana; and two Ayanas give rise to a 
Varsha (year). 

Comments: A Ritu means a season. There are six Ritus of two months each. They 
are as under: 

Name of Rim Appro.\· period Equimlem mouths Platli!lQIJ' 
or seasou o[SakaEra Lord of 

From To (National calendar) tile Rittt 
1. Yasauta :\lar 21 :\lav 20 Chaitra-Yaishakha Yen us 
2. G1ishma :\Iav 21 Jul20 J•v. eshtha-Aslladha :\ Ia rs!S uI I 
3. Yarsha Jul21 Sep 21 Shrara na-Bhadra pad :\loon 
4. Sharad Sep 22 ~0\' 20 Asbwin-Kartika :\Iercuty 
5. Hemanta ~or 21 Jan 20 :\Iargasb irsba-Pausha Jupiter 
6. Shishira Jan 21 :\Iar 20 :\!agha-P~al.guua Satum 

An Ayana comprises the six month period of the Sun's northerly (Uttarayana) or 
southerly (Dakshinayana) course. Two Ayanas or 'six-months' make a year. The Sun in 
Uttarayana (roughly) corresponds with the three Ritus: Shishira, Vasanta and Grishhma. 
Its Dakshinayana phase (similarly) corresponds with the remaining three Ritus: Varsha, 
Sharada and Hemanta. 

Shloka 71 



fi Ci R4 {I ~ <:t : ~ il 9fl f' 8 JCI Cfi ft.;q dI  : I 

8~: ~cfctil,1f4 gJif!ltl!f'Ll'tJl<:l8117111 

Five types of Varshas(years), variously worked out on the basis 
of the four types of months, are called a 'Yuga '. This Yuga is the 
basis of all time determination (like intercalary months, etc.). 

Comments: This concept of five year cycles or Yugas is different from a 'Yuga' 
already described. Here, a year consists of 366 days. The Yuga or lustrum thus has 1830 
days. During this period there are 61 Savana (civil) months of 30 days each. A solar 
month consists of 30 1/2 civil days. Also, there are (approximately) 62 lunar (synodic) 
months during this period accounting for about two intercalary months. 
The four types of months are: 
l.Saura: Based on solar revolution of one year. The sojourn of the Sun through one 
zodiacal sign constitutes one such month. 
2.Savana: Consisting of 30 Savana (or civil) days. One Savana day is the duration of time 
from one sunrise to the next. 
3 .Lunar: A period of one New Moon to the next. 
4.Naakshatra or Sidereal: Based on the sidereal day which is equivalent to one star-rise to 
the next. 
Shloka 72 

,... ,.. 
=$t :~.f8::T'T"T{-rfC!:::rd:::rlr-rlJI"'T'f-:::r1 ~21 Stij I ~ f8 { : I 

Clf8{: q·ijG:XT.JI?i Cf>I'1~1S<:( 1~1ff~d:ll7211 
The first oft hese (Varshas or years) is called 'Samvatsara', the 
second 'Parivatsara', the third ldvatsara, the fourth Anuvatsara, 
and the fifth Vatsara. This (whole) period (offiveyears) is known 
as a 'Yuga'. 

Comments: According to Narada Samhita, five years make a Yuga. The presiding 
deities of the five years that comprise a Yuga are respectively Agni (Fire), Surya (the 
Sun), Chandra (the Moon), Brahma and Shiva. Then there are twelve Yugas (making a 
cycle ofsixty years). 



The sixty-year cycles are called as the Jupiterian cycles or Jupiter's years. Different 
methods of their calculation are followed in North and South India. In North India, the 
Jupiterian years are determined by the entry of Jupiter, by mean motion, into different 
zodiacal signs beginning from the sign Kumbha (Aquarius). In South India, the 
Jupiterian year starts from April 13 or 14 (the day of Sun's entry into the sign Mesha of 
the Niryana zodiac). In either case the order of the sixty years is the same, considering 
Prabhava as the first year. 

The following is a list of the Jupiterian years, and the equivalent years of the 
Christian era, according to the South Indian usage. The years of Christian era considered 
here are from 1951 to 2010. 



1. Prabhava -1987 31. Hemalamba -1957 

2. Vibhava -1988 32. Vilamba ··1958 

3. Shukla -1989 33. Vikari ··1959 

4. Pramoda -1990 34. Sharvari ·•1960 

5. Prajapati -1991 35. Plava ··1961 

6. Angiras -1992 36. Shubhakrita -1962 

7. Shrimukha -1993 37. Shobhakrita -1963 

8. Bhava -1994 38. Krodhi -1964 

9. Yuvan -1995 39. Vishvavasu ··1965 

10. Dhata -1996 40. Parabhava -1966 

11. lshana -1997 4 1 . Plavanga ~1967 

12. Bahudhanya-1998 42. Kilaka ~1968 

13. Pramathi -1999 43. Saumya ··1969 

14. Vikrama -2000 44. Sadharna -1970 
15. Vrisha -2001 45. Virodhakrit ~ 1971 

16. Chitrabhat1u- 2002 46. Paridhavi ~1972 



17.Subhanu -2003 47. Pramadi -1973 

18.Tarana -2004 48. Ananda -1974 

19. Parthiva -2005 49. Rakshasa -1975 

20. Avyaya -2006 50. Nala -1976 

21 . Sarvajit -2007 51. Pingala -1977 

22. Sarvadhari -2008 52. Kalyanakrit -1978 

23. Virodhi -2009 53. Siddhartha -1979 

24. Vikrita - 2010 54. Raudra -1980 

25.Khara -1951 55. Durmati -1981 

26. Nandana -1952 56. Dundubhi -1982 

27.Vijaya -1953 57. Rudhirodgari- 1983 

28. Jaya -1954 58. Raktakshi -1984 

29. Manmatha -1955 59. Krodhana -1985 

30. Durmukha -1956 60. Kshayakrit -1986 

Shloka 76-79 



"Sf~ Cfi f=a en Ic qrir <:RT ~ I fC( (fC1 C::l !-?1 !{ nI 
fct!{II&H( ~iTs-if :fr FC1t:a("(:lfi!(lllt{ll7611 
fct!(II@H( <RT ~~{fll.!{i 1ctlllcnt{l 
~ ~ ftt\Jil;fllllfCtif"dcnlf!n<f-8 ft~ll7711 
C1 ~q fq 'ij)cll •&-:fl S~ en IC 1 : go ll~ I sf~-Teflll dI  
~ C::HIR ~lllfZ"f ~~: !:'ftiC11\l"l~1:117811 
~I~ o'1 '1ZT: fi«p:ll !( i1 9;@ ~ C1 "g) C:: H ~ 1{ I 
a:-aa:Hf1 fct ~ Cfi C1Cfic"(•flsf~l"41ll ct 11791 1 

Muni! When the Sun is in the first part of the Krittika nakshatra 
(equivalent to the concluding part of Mesha) and the Moon 
decidedly in the fourth quarter of Vishakha (the beginning of 
Vrischika), or when the Sun is in the third quarter of the 
Vishakha nakshatra (equivalent to the concluding part ofTula) 
and the Moon is in the beginning of the Krittika (end of Mesha), 
there occurs the most sacred of moments called the 'Vishuva ' (or 
equinox). This time is appropriate for making offerings, etc., in 
respect of the Devas, the Brahmins and the Pitras (Manes). It is 
as if at this time the Devas would receive offerings with their 
mouths open. One who bestows charities at the time oj'Vishu1m' 
himself achieves sa tia tio n. 

Comments: Here is a clue to the time when the text of the Vishnu Pnrana must have 
been put in written form. Prior to that, such texts were passed on from generation to 
generation through individual memory, 

In the above Shlokas, the Niryana or sidereal position of the Sun at the time of two 
equinoxes is mentioned. In case of vernal equinox, the Sun has been mentioned as being 
in the first part of Krittika nakshatra equivalent to sign Mesha (Aries) 26°40' to 30°0'. 
Adding the Ayanamsha of 23°27'26" at the end of 1994, we get the Sayana or tropical 
position of the Sun at 50°27'26" to 53°47'26". We are aware that vernal equinox occurs at 
tropical zero degree of Aries. Thus, this 1st point of Aries has receded from anywhere 



between 50°27'26" to 53°47'26" since the Vishnu Purana must have been compiled in its 
present form. Considering a mean value of 50.26" as the annual recession or precession 
ofthe equinoxes (approx 71.63 years a degree) the above range ofprecession works out 
to be equivalent to approximately 3614 years to 3852 years (about 1858 to 1620 years 
BC). Since Parashara was anterior to the Mahabharata war, which occurred more than 
five thousand years earlier, at the time of the beginning of Kaliyuga, obviously this 
Purana was passed on from one generation to the next through oral transmission. When it 
was actually put in written form, the Vernal equinox must have been occurring at the 
sidereal position of the Sun as mentioned above. 

The autumn equinox has been mentioned as occurring at the time when the Sun 
was in Tula (Libra) 26°40' to 30°0'. This again works out to the same value. 

That the Kali era, signifying the commencement of the Kaliyuga, started over five 
thousand years ago has been asserted by Aryabhata who was born in 476 AD and whose 
fifteen hundredth anniversary was celebrated in 1976. Says he: 
"When three quarter yugas (viz., Krita, Treta and Dwapara) had passed and also 3600 
years (in the fourth, viz., the Kaliyuga), then 23 years had passed after my birth." 

Adding 23 years to his year of birth, we get the year 499 AD. lfwe subtract 499 
years of Christian era from the total Kali years at that time, we get (3600 minus 499) the 
value of 310 I years. The beginning of the Kali era has been known to coincide with the 
year3102BC. 



v 
.. , T , .. 

Of Signs, Houses and Planets 

Neither is this surely a woman, nor is this a man, nor even is this 
a eunuch. It is protected by the very bodies which it acquires. 

Shvetashvatara Upanishad VII 0 

We have already seen that there are twelve signs of the zodiac. One of the signs 
happens to be the sign rising at the eastern horizon at the time of birth. This rising sign is 
called the lagna or the ascendant. The lagna happens to be the first house of the 
horoscope. By this is meant that the houses and signs do not coincide. The first house has 
the label of the sign rising at the time of birth, the second bears the label of the sign that 
will rise next, and so on. 

The nine grahas (from the Sun to Ketu) or 'planets' are the occupants of these 
houses. The houses represent certain characteristics. The signs falling in these houses also 
represent certain characteristics, and the two intermingle to indicate something newer. 
Then the planets which occupy them inflict further modifications. 

In order to be able to make any fruitful predictions, it is essential to understand the 
meanings of the signs, houses and planets. These are briefly indicated in the pages that 
follow. 



A Horoscopic Chart 

Before going further, it is important to appreciate how a horoscopic chart looks like. 
A. North Indian Chart is the one in which the order of the houses is fixed. It consists of 
four central rhomboidal houses (which are numbered I, 4, 7 and 10, starting from the 
upper central rhomboid) and eight triangular houses. The sign rising at the time of birth 
is marked in the first house or the upper central rhomboid, and the remaining signs 
marked in regular order in an anti-clockwise direction. 
B. The South Indian Chart has the signs in a fixed order in the chart. The lagna is marked 
in the appropriate sign. The remaining houses are counted in a clock-wise manner. 
C. An Eastern Indian Chart, often used in Bengal and Orissa, also has the signs in a fixed 
order in the chart. The ascendant is marked in the appropriate sign. The remaining houses 
are counted in an anti-clockwise direction. 



.lVor.r.h Indian Char.r. 

Aries 

So·u/.h Iru:llan Char/. 

.. /~xics 

Eas/. Indian Char/. 



Whatever the type of horoscopic chart preferred, the planets are placed in the 
houses bearing the signs in which the planets are located astronomically. 

The process of working out the lagna and the position of planets has been dealt 
with in Chapters VIII and IX. 



The Signs for Rashis) 

The signs of the zodiac have special features which are being described here. 
1. Appearance and Habitat: The twelve signs of the zodiac each have a specific 
appearance and a habitat. This may be best described by reproducing a dialogue between 
sage Pulastya and sage Narada, as mentioned in the Vamana Purana. 
Pulastaya addresses Narada, saying, "Sage Narada! Now I narrate to you how these 
various signs look like, as also the areas they reside in or haunt. 
"The sign Mesha resembles a ram. It circulates among the goats, the sheep and regions 
holding wealth and precious stones. It wanders on grassy lands, and around lakes 
surrounded by vegetation." 
"The sign Vrisha resembles a bull. Cowhouses and farmlands are its place of residence." 
"A man and a woman bearing a trumpet and a harp represent the sign Mithuna whose 
places of residence are the couch and the lounge. It circulates amongst the singers, the 
dancers and the sculptors. This dual sign haunts the sports lovers and the pleasure 
houses." 
"Karkata has the appearance of a crab and lives in water. Its places of residence include 
water-filled garden beds, river banks and un-inhabited lands." 
"Simha (resembling a lion) resides in the mountains, forests, caves, inaccessible places, 
deep ditches and the living places ofhunters." 
"Kanya (consists of a woman) standing in a boat and holding com and a lamp in her 
hand, inhabits women's pleasure rooms." 
"Narada! Tuia is represented by a man holding a balance in his hand, and its residences 
include lanes, bazaars, towns, routes and buildings." 
"Vrishchika resembles the scorpion in appearance. It moves in crevices and pits. Its areas 
of residence include poisons, animal excreta, stones and insects." 
"OfDhanu, the legs are like those of a horse. It is radiant and holds a bow and arrow. 
Well versed in horse riding, in handling of arms and in doing daring and brave deeds, it 
resides in elephants, chariots, etc." 
"0 Brahmin! The mouth of Makara is like that of a deer, shoulders like those of a bull 
and eyes like those of an elephant. It moves in the rivers and resides in the ocean." 
"Kurnbha resembles a man wearing wet clothes and holding on his shoulders an empty 
pitcher. It moves in gambling houses and resides in drinking dens." 
"The sign Meena consists of two fishes lying side by side, the head of one being beside 
the tail of the other. It circulates in the places of pilgrimage and in the oceans. It haunts 
pious places, temples of gods and houses of Brahmins." 
2. Parts of the body: The various signs from Mesha onwards represent (I) head, (2) 
face, (3) shoulders, (4) chest, (5) heart and stomach, (6) abdomen, (7) lower abdomen 
and groin, (8) external genitalia, (9) thighs, (10) knees, (I I) calves, and (12) feet. 
3. Stature: Of short stature are signs Mesha, Vrisha, Kumbha and Meena (i.e., I ,2, II 



and 12). 
Oftall stature are the signs Simha, Kanya, Tula and Vrischika (i.e., 5, 6, 7 and 8). 
Of even stature are the signs Mithuna, Karka, Dhanu and Makara, (i.e., 3, 4, 9 and 10). 
Note: Stature here has nothing to do with signs of long ascension and those of short 
ascension. 
4. Diurnal strength: Strong during night are the signs Mesha, Vrisha, Mithuna, Karka, 
Dhanu and Makara. Except Mithuna, they rise by the hind side (Prishtodaya). Strong 
during day are Simha, Kanya, Tula, Vrischhika, Kumbha and Meena. Except Meena, 
they rise by the head (Sheershodaya). 
Mithuna too rises by the head. 
Meena rises both by the head and the tail (Ubhayodaya). 
5. Malefic/Male: Odd signs, viz., 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 and II. 
6. BenefidFemale: Even signs, viz., 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12. 
7. Movable or otherwise: 
Signs 1, 4, 7 and I 0 are movable; they indicate change and mobility. 
Signs 2, 5, 8 and 11 are fixed; they indicate stability and fixity. 
Signs 3, 6, 9 and 12 are mixed; they indicate a balance between the fixed and movable 
signs. 
8. Directions: 
East : signs 1, 5 and 9. 
South : signs 2, 6 and 10. 
West : signs 3, 7 and 11. 
North : signs 4, 8 and 12. 
9. Inherent nature: 
Fiery : signs I , 5 and 9. 
Earthly signs 2, 6 and 10. 
Airy signs 3, 7 and 11. 
Watery signs 4, 8 and 12. 
10. Biological characters: 
Quadrupeds: signs I, 2, 5, posterior half of 9, and anterior half of I 0. 
Bipeds: signs 3, 6, 7, ll,and anteriorhalfof9. 
Insect (Keeta): signs 4 and 8. 
Those inhabiting water: signs 12, and rosterior half of (Jalachara) 10. 



11. Constituent character: 
Mineral (Dhatu):signs 1, 4, 7 and I 0. 
Vegetable (Moola):signs 2,5 ,8 and II. 
Animal (Jeeva): signs 3, 6, 9 and 12. 
12. Caste: 
Kshatriya: signs I, 5 and 9. 
Vaishya: signs 2, 6 and 10. 
Shudra: signs 3, 7 and II. 
Brahmin: signs 4, 8 and 12. 
13.Lords: 
Of the twelve signs, starting from Mesha, the lords are respectively Mars, Venus, 
Mercury, the Moon, the Sun, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Saturn and Jupiter. 



The Houses 

The twelve houses of a horoscope deal with all conceivable aspects of life. The 
most important of all houses is the lagna or the first house. The remaining houses are 
basically related to the first house only. The planets in the horoscopic chart are 
subservient to the lagna, and their original nature undergoes modifications depending 
upon the lagna. 
1. The Kendras (or Quadrants): Houses I, 4, 7 and I 0. These are highly significant 
houses. 
2. The Panapharas (or Successant Houses): Houses 2, 5, 8 and II. 
3. The Apoklimas (or Cadent Houses): Houses 3, 6, 9 and 12. 
4. The Trikonas (or Trines): Houses I, 5 and 9. These are highly auspicious and, along 
with the Kendras, determine the health, wealth, status, dignity, rise and virtue of a native. 
The lagna, being both a kendra and a trikona, is the most significant of all houses. 
5. The Upachayas: Houses 3, 6, 10 and II. These houses indicate struggle, competition 
and material achievement. 
6. The Trika Houses: Houses 6, 8 and 12. These are considered bad houses 
(Duhsthanas). They indicate debt, disease, loss and misery. 
7. The Ayu-sthanas (or houses of longevity) : Houses 8 and 3 (8th from the 8th). They 
indicate the length of life and, therefore, also the death. 
8. The Maraka-sthanas (or killer houses): Houses 2 and 7. 
9. The two halves of a horoscope: 

(a) Houses I to 7 indicate the invisible half and houses 7 to I indicate the visible 
half of the horoscope. 
(b) Houses 10 to 4 indicate the eastern half and houses 4 to 10 indicate the western 
half of the horoscope. 

The significations of the twelve houses have been listed elsewhere. 



The Planets 

Nine main planets are employed in Vedic astrology. Their English equivalents and 
symbols are given in Table V-1. 

Table- V-1 
Vedic Name : English equivalent 
Ravi (Surya) : Sun 
Chandra : Moon 
Mangala : Mars 
Budha : Mercury 
Guru (Brihaspati) : Jupiter 
Shukra : Venus 
Shani : Saturn 
Rahu : Rahu (Dragon's head) 
Ketu : Ketu (Dragon's tail) 

1. Physical Attributes 
The Sun has a square build, scanty but curly hair, lovely appearance, good 

intelligence, impressive voice, medium stature, red eyes, dark red complexion, strong 
bones, bilious nature, finn temperament and saffron robes. 

The Moon has a slim but roundish body, beautiful appearance, lovely eyes, sweet 
tongue, phlegm and wind in his composition, white complexion, short curly hair, amiable 
nature, Sattvika inclination, discriminating wisdom, restless nature, excessive sexual urge, 
white robes. 

Mars is characterised by fierce red eyes, short stature, tough and youthful body, 
fickle but generous disposition, short but shining and curly hair, valorous nature, 
Tamasika inclination, eagerness to hurt, easy excitability, bilious disposition and fair 
complexion. 

Mercury has a slim and beautiful body, large reddish eyes, dark green complexion, 
healthy skin, medium height, clear and witty speech, expression with multiple meanings, 
Rajasika inclination, plenty of energy, bile, wind and phlegm in his composition, and 
green robes. 

Jupiter has a big belly and a fat body, pale eyes, virtuous disposition, phlegmatic 
temperament, knowledge of scriptures and sciences, bright yellow complexion, Sattvika 
inclination, sharp intelligence, keenness in religious pursuits, forgiving nature and 
yellow-coloured dress. 

Venus is dark brown and handsome, of symmetrical limbs and dark curly hair, 
writer of poetry, and has an amorous disposition. He has long arms, broad chest, 
excessive seminal fluid, windy and phlegmatic temperament, Rajasika inclination, grace, 
vigour, wisdom and intelligence, and multi-coloured robes. 

Saturn has a tall, lean and weak body, dark complexion, stiff hair and limbs, large 



teeth, lazy disposition, windy temperament, cruel nature, Tamasika inclination, lame, 
dark and shabby robes. 

Rahu and Ketu have a bluish complexion resembling smoke, wild in bearing, 
intelligent, and ofwindy disposition. 
2. Planetary Lordship 
The Sun owns Simha 
The Moon owns Karka 
Mars owns Mesha and Vrischika 
Mercury owns Mithuna and Kanya 
Jupiter owns Dhanu and Meena 
Venus owns Vrisha and Tula 
Saturn owns Makara and Kumbha 
3. Castes 
Brahmins: Jupiter, Venus 
Kshatriyas: Sun, Mars 
Vaishyas: Moon, Mercury 
Shudra: Saturn 
4. Essential nature 
Sattvika (good and noble): Sun, Moon, Jupiter 
Rajasika (active and just): Mercury, Venus 
Tamasika (dark and base): Mars, Saturn 
5. Rulership in respect of the Kaala-Purusha (or the time personified) 
Sun: Soul 
Moon: Mind 
Mars: Essence 
Mercury: Speech 
Jupiter: Wisdom and comforts 
Venus: Seminal fluid 
Saturn: Miseries 
6. Social status 
King: Sun, Moon 
Commander-in-chief: Mars 
Heir- apparent: Mercury 
Ministers: Jupiter, Venus 
Servant: Saturn 
Army: Rahu and Ketu 



7. Gender 
Masculine: Sun, Mars, Jupiter 
Feminine: Moon, Venus 
Eunuchs: Mercury, Saturn 
8. Rulership over body constituents 
Sun: Bones 
Moon: Blood 
Mars: Marrow 
Mercury: Skin 
Jupiter: Fat 
Venus: Seminal fluid 
Saturn: Nerves 
9. Places represented 
Sun: Temple 
Moon: Watery place 
Mars: Place of fire 
Mercury: Playground 
Jupiter: Treasure house 
Venus: Bedroom 
Saturn: Dirty places, sites of refuse disposal 
10. Directions 
Sun: East 
Moon: North West 
Mars: South 
Mercury: North 
Jupiter: North East 
Venus: South East 
Saturn: West 
Rahu: South west 
11. Directional strength 
Mercury, Jupiter: East (Lagna or the 1 st house) 
Sun, Mars: South (lOth house) 
Moon, Venus: North (4th house) 
Saturn: West (7th house) 
12. Benefics and Malefics 



Natural benefics: Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus 
Natural malefics: Sun, Mars, Saturn, Rahu, Ketu 
The waning Moon and afflicted Mercury too behave as malefics. 
13. Exaltation, Debilitation and Moola Trikona 

Planets are strong and favourable when placed in their exaltation signs or in Moola 
Trikona signs. Six signs or 180 degrees away from its exaltation point lies the debilitation 
point of a planet. 

TABLE V-Z 
Exaltation, Debilitation and Moola Trikona of Planets. 

Planet Exaltation Debilitation Jlo oltrikoua 

The Suu Aries 10° Libra 10° Leo0°-20° 
The ~loon Taurus 3° Scorpio 3° T anrus 4°-Z0° 

Mars Capricorn zgo Cancer zgo Aries 0°-12° 
Mercury Virgo 1S0 Pisces 1S0 \'iro..o  16°-20° 
Jupiter Cancer so Capricorn so Sagillarius 0°-10° 
Venus Pisces Z7° Virgo Z7° Libra 0°-15° 
Saturn Libra zoo Aries zoo Aquarius 0°-2QO 

14. Natural Mutual Relationship of Planets. 
Planets according to their nature, are disposed as friends or enemies or neutrals 

towards other planets. The great V arahamihira sponsors the view of Satyacharya in 
determining the natural mutual relationship of planets. According to this view, a planet's 
friends are the lord of its exaltation sign as also the planets owning houses 2, 12, 5, 9, 4 
and 8 from its Moola Trikona sign. Table V-3 shows the natural mutual relationship of 
planets according to the above view. 



TABLE V-3 
Natural mutual relationship 

Planet Frie11ds Enemies Neutrals 

The Sun :\Ion, :\Iar, Jup Yen, Sat Mer 
The Moon Sun, Mer :\Iars, Jup, Yen, Sat 
:\Iars Sun,:\Ion,Jup Mer Yeu, Sat 
:\Iercurr Sun, Ven Mou Mars, Jup, Sat 
Jupiter Sun, :\Ion, Mar Mer, Ven Sat 
Veuus Mer, Sat Suu, Mon Mars,Jup 
Saturn Mer, Ven Sun, :\lou, Mar Jup 

15. Temporal relationship 
Besides their natural disposition as friends, enemies or equals (neutrals) towards 

each other, planets become friends or enemies of each other depending upon their 
location in a horoscopic chart. 

Temporal friends: Planets located in houses 2, 12, 3, II, 4 and 10 from any planet 
become its temporal friends. 

Temporal enemies: Planets located in houses I (i.e., conjunction), 7 (opposition), 5, 
9, 6 and 8 from any planet become its temporal enemies. 
16. Five grades of relationship 

On the basis of their natural and temporal disposition towards each other, planets 
may have any of the five grades of relationships given below: 



Natural Temporal Resultant relationship 

1. Friend Friend Bosom friend 

2. Friend Enem•v  Neutral 

3. Neutral Friend Friend 

4. Neutral EnemY•  I nemy 
5. EnemY•  friend Neutral 

6. Enemy Enemy Bitter enemy 

I 7. Aspects, Combustion and Retrogression 
Planets exert their influence on the houses and planets that they aspect. All planets 

fully aspect the seventh house, or planets located therein, from their own position. ln 
addition, the outer planets (Mars, Jupiter and Saturn) have been granted special aspects. 
Thus Mars also fully aspects houses 4 and 8, Jupiter houses 5 and 9, and Saturn houses 3 
and 10. The remaining planets cast a quarter glance on houses 3 and 10, half an aspect on 
houses 5 and 9, and three-quarter aspect on houses 4 and 8. 

Planets when close to the Sun tend to lose their strength and vitality, and are 
considered to be combust. A combust planet loses its capacity to do good and produces 
adverse results. Planets also become retrograde when, during their motion, they appear to 
be moving in a reverse direction. The Sun and the Moon do not become retrograde while 
Rahu and Ketu (almost) always move in a retrograde direction. A retrograde planet 
produces unexpected results and is generally adverse for health. A retrograde planet also 
exerts influence from its preceding house. 



... vi. .. 
Nature of Planets 

:e ~ ~ i inia '(OCt O(Oi{ 1:  uC f2d ~ t9i Cll9i flu 
'~ €ilf;a ~ RU~: fci ChU&.:Ifiill 

The man of knowledge too acts in accordance with his own 
nature. All beings follow their nature. What can obstinacy 
accomplish? 

Gita III/33 

Analysis of a horoscopic chart requires a thorough understanding of the nature of 
planets. It is on the basis of a proper knowledge of the nature of planets that good and 
bad results can be predicted with any accuracy. Before venturing into predictive aspect of 
astrology, it is imperative on the part of a practitioner of astrology to spend some time 
mastering the principles that govern the benevolence and malevolence of planets. 

Planets may be benefic or malefic by nature. Or they become benefic or malefic 
depending upon the nature of the rising sign in a horoscope. Benefic and malefic planets 
produce their results when their appropriate dashas operate. Dashas thus help us in the 
timing of events. 

The nature of various planets is determined on the basis of standard astrological 
principles mentioned by the classical writers. These principles have been discussed in 
details in the Essentials of Medical Astrology by the author. The following account is 
primarily a reproduction of the same principles. 



Malefics and Benefics bv nature 

Planets may be malefic or benefic depending upon their inherent nature. Thus, 
Jupiter, Venus, waxing Moon and well-associated Mercury are natural benefics. 
Similarly, the Sun, Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu, waning Moon and afflicted Mercury are 
natural malefics. The Moon and Mercury are naturally weak. The Moon though a mild 
and benevolent planet, behaves as a malefic when too close to the Sun. Mercury gets 
influenced too easily; it thus behaves as a benefic under benefic influence and as a 
malefic under malefic influence. Rahu and Ketu too can behave as benefics especially 
when placed in the signs ofJupiter and Mercury. 



Benefics and Malefics for different La2nas 

Parashara 's Principles 
Planets behave as benefics and malefics depending on the houses they own. The 

ownership would naturally vary from one lagna to the other. In other words, for a given 
lagna, certain planets will behave as benefics while others will behave as malefics or 
neutrals. This will be independant of their inherent nature as already described. Planets 
thus are subservient to the lagna. On the basis of the principles discussed hereunder, a 
natural benefic may assume the role of a malefic while a natural malefic may assume a 
benefic role. The standard principles in this regard, as laid down by the sage Parashara in 
his celebrated Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra are being given below. 
Principles - Part I 
(a)Natural benefics as lords of quadrants (houses I ,4, 7 and I 0) shed their beneficence. 
(b )Natural malefics as lords of quadrants shed their malefic nature. 

Note: 
(i)Natural benefics are the Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus; natural malefics are 
the Sun, Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu. 
(ii)Lordship of quadrants has a neutralising influence on the nature of planets. The 
natural benefics thus lose the capacity to give benefic results, while the natural 
malefics lose their capacity to do harm. 
(iii) Only the ownership of quadrants does not convert benefics into malefics, and 
vice versa. 

(c)Lords of trines (houses 1,5 and 9) give benefic results no matter whether by their 
inherent nature they are benefics or malefics. 

Note: Lord of the lagna is both the lord of a quadrant and a trine. It is thus 
supposed to give benefic results irrespective of it's inherent nature. 

(d)Lords ofthe third, the sixth and the eleventh houses are always malefic. 
(e)Lords ofthe second, the twelfth and the eighth houses behave as neutrals. They give 
results according to their location as well as association. 

Note: Lords of the 2nd, 12th and 8th houses are impressionable neutrals. 
Principles - Part II 

The twelve houses in a horoscope have been divided into four groups above: (a) 
the quadrants; (b) the trines; (c) the 3, 6, II group; and (d) the 2, 12, 8 group. In each 
group the relative strength of the various house lords is described thus: 
(a)Ofthe lords of the quadrants, the 4th lord is more powerful than the lagna lord; the 
7th lord is more powerful than the 4th lord; and the I Oth lord is more powerful than the 
7th lord. 
(b) Oft he trine lords, the 5th lord is more powerful than the lagna lord, while the 9th lord 
is more powerful than the 5th lord. 



(c)Ofthe 3, 6, 11 group, the sixth lord is more powerful than the 3rd lord while the 11th 
lord is more so than the 6th lord. 
(d)Ofthe 2, 12, 8 group, the 12th lord is more powerful than the 2nd, while the 8th lord 
is more so than the 12th. 
Principles - Part Ill 

The lord of the 8th house, though considered a neutral above, has a special 
propensity to do evil. The eighth house represents obstructions, obstacles, failures, 
intrigues, ailments, death and the like. The following points must be remembered while 
considering the 8th house. 

(a)Eighth house is the 12th from 9th (indicating loss of Bhagya); hence its lord is ever 
malefic. 

Note: 
(i)Twelfth house from lagna indicates loss. Twelfth house from any house indicates 
loss of that house. Since the ninth house stands for Bhagya (luck), virtues, pious 
deeds, religious inclinations, father, etc., the twelfth from it (i.e., the 8th) indicates 
the loss of all these. Loss of fortune or luck is considered the biggest loss. 

(ii)When the 8th lord is also the lagna lord, the benefic nature of the lagna lordship 
prevails, and the 8th lord tends to behave as a benefic unless it is particularly 
afflicted or ill-placed. 

(b)The eighth lord is still more malefic when it also lords over the 3rd or the 11th house. 

Note: 
(i)For Pisces ascendant, Venus is the lord of the third and the 8th houses and is bad. 
(ii)For Virgo ascendant, Mars is the lord of the third and the eighth houses and, 
therefore, adverse. 
(iii) For Taurus ascendant, Jupiter is the lord of the 8th and the lith houses, and is 
adverse. 
(iv) For Scorpio ascendant, Mercury as the lord of the 8th and the 11th houses is 
bad. 

(c)The eighth lord becomes a benefic when it also owns a trine. 

Note: 
(i)Jupiter and Mercury for Leo and Aquarius ascendants respectively own the 5th 
and 8th houses, and behave as beneffcs. 

(ii)For Gemini ascendant, Saturn as the lord of the 8th house as well as the 9th 
house (a trine) does not become an outright benefic, and, according to the 
Bhavartha Ratnakara, gives mixed results only. 

(d)The evil effects of the eighth house lordship do not apply to the Sun or the Moon. 
Note: The Moon is the 8th lord for Sagittarius ascendant, and the Sun for Capricorn 
ascendant. According to the sage Parashara, the Sun and the Moon remain un-



afflicted by the eighth house lordship. This, however, may not hold true in actual 
practice, at least in medical astrology. 

Principles - Part IV 
(a)When a planet owns both a quadrant and a trine, it becomes particularly useful and is 
called a Raja-yoga-karaka (doer of great benefit). It gives additional benefit if it is also 
located in a quadrant or a trine. 

Note: 
(i)Mars for Cancer and Leo ascendants, Venus for Capricorn and Aquarius 
ascendants, and Saturn for Taurus and Libra ascendants, become Yoga-karakas 
because of the ownership of a trine and a quadrant. 
(ii)Some people doubt the efficacy of Saturn as a benefic for Taurus ascendant 
despite its ownership of the 9th and the lOth houses (a trine and a quadrant 
respectively). This is because the 9th lord is considered a Badhaka (an obstructing 
agent) for a fixed lagna like Taurus. This, however, is not the view of Parashara 
which, in our opinion, is more authentic. 

(b)Only the ownership of a quadrant does not convert a malefic into a benefic. The 
malefic must also own a trine to completely shed its malevolence. 

Note: Saturn, as the lord of the lOth and the lith houses for Aries ascendant, as 
lord of the 3rd and the 4th houses for Scorpio ascendant, and as the lord of the 6th 
and the 7th houses for Leo ascendant, remains a malefic despite owning a quadrant 
in each case. 

(c)The blemish of kendra lordship (ownership of quadrants), as applicable to benefics, 
increases progressively from the Moon, to Mercury, to Jupiter, to Venus. 
(d)Full Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus, in this order, are progressively more 
powerful as benefics. 
(e)Waning Moon, the Sun, Saturn and Mars, in this order, are progressively more 
powerful as malefics. 
Principles- Part V (Raja Yogas) 

When the lord of a quadrant is in some way related to the lord of a trine, a Raja 
Yoga (or a highly benefic combination) is formed. Benefic combinations in a horoscope 
neutralise affliction and are good for remaining free from disease. Relationship between 
any two house lords can be in one ofthe following ways: 
(a)By location in the same house (conjunction). 
(b)By mutual aspect. 
(c)By an exchange ofhouses (Parivartana Yoga). 
(d)When one of them is placed in the other's house and this latter aspects the former. 

Note: When the lords of quadrants and trines are related in one of the ways 
indicated above, they still do not produce a Raja yoga if they also own the 
Papasthanas (adverse houses), i.e., houses 3, 6 and II. 



Principles - Part VI (Rahu and Ketu) 
(a)Rahu and Ketu give results according to the house where they are located, and 
according to the planet (i.e., the lord of a house) whom they join. 
(b)Rahu and Ketu become Yogakarakas (productive of Raja Yoga) in the following 
situations: 

(i)When they are placed in a quadrant, and join a trine lord; or 
(ii)When they are placed in a trine, and join a quadrant lord. 

(c)Rahu also behaves as Saturn and Ketu also as Mars. 



Trika Houses aud their Lords 

Houses 6, 8 and 12 are known as Trika houses. While these houses and their lords, 
as well as the planets that associate with these houses and their lords, are productive of 
adverse results, they are particularly adverse in relation to health. The sixth house and the 
sixth lord, among other things, indicate disease and accidents. The eighth house and the 
eighth lord indicate chronic disease, incurable disease, or death. The twelfth house and its 
lord indicate suffering and also hospitalisation. The dasha periods of the planets 
associated with these houses and their lords must be carefully watched for determining 
illness. 



The Marakas (Death Inflictors) 

The Marakas are planets which are supposed to cause death. It has already been 
stated that the eighth house governs longevity. The eighth from the 8th (i.e., the third 
house) is the alternate house of longevity. We are also aware that the twelfth house from 
any house signifies the loss of that house. Twelfth from the eighth house is the 7th house; 
twelfth from the third house is the 2nd. The 2nd and the 7th houses thus indicate loss of 
longevity, in other words death. These houses are called the Maraka houses. Planets 
which (i) own these houses, (ii) occupy these houses, or (iii) associate with the lords of 
these houses assume the role of Marakas or death inflictors. The dashas and antardashas 
of these planets are significant in causing death. It may be remembered, however, that 
death does not occur every time the dashas and antardashas of these planets operate; 
under normal circumstances, these dashas disturb health. 

It is appropriate to study a chart carefully and work out the span of life according 
to the standard principles of astrology. Death during childhood must be excluded by 
judging the horoscope for Balarishta. Thereafter, the length of life must be classified as 
being Alpayu (short life; upto 32 years), Madhyayu (medium life; 64 years) or Poornayu 
(long life; 100 years). It is the coinciding of a maraka dasha with the culmination of the 
span of life that causes death. At other times, the dashas of marakas should be watched 
for health. 

It is not necessary that the time of death will always coincide with the dashas and 
antardashas of planets concerned with the second and seventh houses or their lords. Other 
planets too can assume this role when the dashas of the marakas stated above are not 
operating. In this connection, the following factors are of importance: 

(a) Lord of the twelfth house; 
(b)Planets associated with the lord ofthe twelfth house; 
( c )Antardashas of the 6th, 8th or 12th lords operating in the dasha of a mar aka planet; 
(d)Lords of the 2nd and 12th houses from the Moon ifthey happen to be malefics; 

(e)Saturn assumes the most potent maraka status when associated with planets having 
maraka potential. 
(f)Death sometimes occurs in the dasha or antardasha of the most malefic planet in the 
horoscope. 
Note: 
(a)Saturn and Rahu can behave as unqualified killers if their dasha and antardasha are 
operating at a time coinciding with the expected span of life. 
(b)A maraka planet does not kill in its dasha, in the antardasha of a benefic planet related 
to it. It can, however, kill in the antardasha of an unrelated malefic planet. 

(c)Lords of the 2nd and the 12th houses become potent marakas in their mutual dasha-
antardashas. 
(d)Similarly, lords of the 6th and the 8th houses can cause death in their mutual dasha-
antardashas. 



(e)Dasha of the 8th lord occupying the ascendant is also important. 
(f)If two or more sons of a native run the Rahu dasha simultaneously, it forebodes death 
for the native. This is a marvellous example of the principle of inter-related destinies. 



Relationship of Planets to Various La!mas 

It is appropriate now to tabulate the relationship of planets to the various lagnas on 
the basis of the aforesaid principles. 



S. Lag11a Bmejirs .\fal£jirs .llaralias J"ogakaraka 
.Yo. 

I. ~I~ha Suu,Jup ~Ier, Yen, Yen 
Sat 

(Q ~!ere conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn (9th and 10111 lords) do~ uot produce a Raja Yoga. 
(h) Jupiter berom~ maferolent if ill-assocL1ted. 
(Iii) ~Iars tends to behare as a be11elic on account of the Iagna lonlshlp. 

:!. Y1isha Sun, Sat ~Ion,Jup ~Iars Sat 
Yen () Ion,Jup,Yen) 

(Q )len:m;• is pa11~· beneficial 
(ii) Enn \"enos Is not too good lor Taunu ascendant. 

3. ~lithuna Yen Sun, ~Ia•~ ~Ion 
Jup 

(Q Combination o!Satmu (9th lord) and Jupiter (7th & lOth lord) do~ not produce a Raja)·oga. 
(ii) Jupiter as a benefic is the lord of two quadrants (excluding the lagna~ It is pu1icularl)· liable to the 

blemish of kendra lordship. Such blemish is applicable to ~lercury .~Jupiter on~·. 
(Iii) ~lercu1~· is neutral Sa tum may giw mbed r~ulls. 

4. Karka ~Ion, )lu~ )ler, Yen Sat ~Iars 
Jup 

(0 Sun acts as a benefic or malefic depending upon its association. 

5. Simha Sun, )Jan )ler, Yen Sat ~Iars 
Jup Sat 

(Q Combination of Jupiter (5th lord) and Yen us (lOth lord) do~ not produce a Rajayoga. 
(H) The ~loon (l!tb lonl) ginsresults depending upon its association. 

6. Kan)·a ~Ier, Yen ~Ion, ~Iars Yen 
Jup 

(i) Association o!Yenus (9th lord) and ~lercury (lOth lord and Lagna lord) produces a Raja)·oga. 
(ii) The Sun (12th lord) gir~ resuhs based on its association. 
(iii) )len:m)· as lagna lord and lord of the lOth house (the most powe1ful quadrant) becomes a benefic 

while Jupiter(4th and 7th lord) sullers from t11e blemish of lonlship of two kend ras. 

7. Tula ~ler, Sat Sun, )Jar )Jar Sat 
Jup 

(i) Yenuslsneutral 
(ti) Combination <>I the :\loon (lOth lord) "itb :\Iercul)" (9th lonl) produ~ a Rajayoga. 

8. Y1ishchika ~Ion, Jup ~Ier, Yen Yen 
Sat 

(i) ~lu~ Is neutral (cl. Yen us lor Taurus Ia goa). 
(o) The Sun-)Joon (lOth lord and 9th lord respertiYe~·) association produc~ a Raja)·oga. 



9. Dhauu Sun, ~lar Yen Yen, Sat 

(Q Jupiter is neutral as is t11e ~loon. 
(ti) Suu-~lercu•~· (9th and lOth lords) association produces aR aja~·oga. 

10. ~hkm ~ler, ren ~lou)lar ~lar(aud reu 
Jup other nulefics) 

(Q The Sun is an eutral 
(ii) Saturn (2nd klrd) itse~ is not a maraka as it is the klnl of the lagna al10. 

11. Kumbha Yen, Sat ~lon)lar Sun)lar Yen 
Jup Jup 

(0 ~lerCUI)' Is mediocre, pe1baps more beneficial tlun hanuful 

12. ~leena ~!on, ~lar Sun, ~ler ~ler, Sat 
Jup Yen, Sat 

(Q ~Iars Is not am araka despbe being the second lord. (d. reuus for\'h'go ascendant) 
(ti) Association ol ~1m (9th lord) and Jupiter (lOth lord as \\ell as lagna lord) produces aR aja yoga. 
(iii) Compare this with the role of Jupiter and ~lerrul)' in the em of Yh·go ascendant 



Miscellaneous Adverse Factors 

While the above information must suffice to decide about the nature of a planet, 
there are other factors too which need attention. This is particularly true of the adverse 
factors since a knowledge about them is of importance in obtaining the warning signals 
and taking appropriate remedial measures. Some such sensitive adverse factors are 
mentioned below. It is stressed, however, that the aim of making a mention of these is not 
to frighten a consulter but to help him to the utmost extent by advising appropriate 
corrective steps. 
I. The twenty-second Drekkana: The twenty-second Drekkana is the Drekkana that falls 
exactly seven houses away from the lagna. It thus falls in the 8th house on the same 
degrees as those of the lagna. Place the degrees of the lagna in the sign occupying the 8th 
house of the birth chart and determine its Drekkana. The lord of that sign and the planets 
falling in that sign in the Drekkana chart are evil and capable of causing death and 
disease. When a Drekkana chart is cast, the 8th house of this chart indicates the 22nd 
Drekkana. The lord of this house as well as the planets falling in that house prove 
malefic. 
2. The sixtyjourth Navamsha. Whereas the 22nd Drekkana is calculated from the lagna, 
the 64th Navamsha is calculated from the Moon. It falls exactly seven houses away from 
the Moon. Place the degrees of the Moon in the sign 8th from it, and determine the 
Navamsha of that sign. The lord of that Navamsha is the lord of the 64th Navamsha, and, 
along with planets falling therein in the Navamsha chart, behaves as a malefic. In the 
usual Navamsha chart, the sign falling in the 4th house from the Moon happens to be the 
lord of the 64th Navamsha; this lord as also its associates, and the planets falling in that 
house in the Navamsha Chart behave as evil planets. 
3. Sarpa Drekkana. The second and third Drekkana of the sign Karka, the first and the 
second of the sign Vrishchika, and the last Drekkana of the sign Meena are termed the 
Sarpa (serpent) Drekkanas. Planets falling in these Drekkanas tend to produce ill health 
during their periods and sub-periods if other factors also indicate thus. 



... vn ... 
Significations of Houses and Planets 

IU El ~l"tH ffi iJ t5 :re it~d d {\ \lR': I 
~ ttdHHOi~W Mlai«JejaJ~ II 

Whatever a great man does, the same is done by others 
too. Whatever standard he sets, the same the world follows. 

Gita III/21 

The twelve houses of the zodiac represent all the aspects of existence at the 
terrestrial as well as the individual level. Likewise, the nine planets also indicate the varied 
areas of existence. In order to analyse a horoscopic chart, it is essential to understand 
what the different houses of the horoscope, and the nine planets located therein, signify. 
An understanding of the interaction between planets and houses, integrated with the 
dasha systems and other specific techniques, provides a basis for accurate predictions. 

An attempt is being made here to provide adequate information about all that the 
planets and the houses signify. However, this information is not exclusive, particularly in 
view of the fact that several new meanings must emerge when the standard principles are 
applied in the modern context. It only underlines the fact that astrology is ever a live and 
expanding subject. 



Significations of the Twelve Houses 

The houses fium the lagna to the seventh represent the right half ofthe body of the 
native (and the left half of the body of his spouse). Those from the seventh to the lagna 
represent his left half, and the right half of his spouse. 
First House: Body, fame, character, strength, courage, knowledge or lack of it, 
residence, place of birth, dignity, honour, ancestry, livelihood, the beginning, the 
present, wisdom, wealth, comforts and discomforts, self-respect, peace of mind, 
happiness and un-happiness, detachment, virtues and vices, health ofparents. 

In medical astrology: Body in neral, limbs, complexion, marks or moles on the 
body, sound and unsound health, skin texture, longevity, sleep, head, brain, texture of 
hair, stamina. 
Second House: Wealth, speech, physical enjoyments, trading in ornaments, pearls and 
diamonds, buying or selling in general, accumulation of wealth, earning through self-
effort, acquisitions from father, truthfulness and falsehood, inclinations, food, taste, 
clothes, eloquence, humility, steadiness of mind, learning, education, letters, anger, 
deceitfulness, family members, friends, enemies, servants, close followers, self-control, 
death. 

In medical astrology: Face, teeth, tongue, oral cavity, nose, nails, speech, eyes 
(right eye). 
Third House: Courage and valour, physical fitness, hobbies, talent, education, good 
qualities, siblings, longevity of parents, tolerance, capability, quality and nature of food, 
selfishness, sports, fights, refuge, trading, dreams, sorrows, stability of mind, 
neighbourhood, near relations, friends, army, inheritance, ornaments, cleverness, short 
journeys. 

In medical astrology: Ears (right ear), neck, throat, shoulders, bones, upper limbs, 
mental instability, physical growth, longevity. 
Fourth House: Near and dear ones, caste and ancestry, mother, relatives on mother's 
side, lands and houses, agriculture, farming, gardens, orchards, installations, buildings, 
parliament, favours fium the ruler, medicine, education, knowledge of land and 
geography, hidden treasures, comforts and discomforts, courage, faith, victory and 
defeat, perfumes, clothes, milk, digging, agricultural produce, vehicles, possession of 
cattle, horses and elephants. 

In medical astrology: Chest, lungs, heart, breast, potent medicine. 
Fifth House: Progeny, father, mental ability, learning, knowledge, scholarship, character, 
conception, prosperity, acquisitions through wife, fascination (for women), sharp 
wisdom, discrimination and analytical skill, capability, devotion to gods, means of 
earning, official seal, good or bad memory, speculation, humiliation, authorship, Shruti 
(Vedas), Smriti, knowledge of mantras, karmas of past lives. 

In medical astrology: Heart, upper abdomen, liver, gall bladder, mind, mental 
illness, problems related to pregnancy. 
Sixth House: Enemies, opposition, mental agitation, injuries, accident, disease, wounds 
sustained in war, loans, debts, losses, disappointments, obstacles, poisons, slanders, 



humiliation, cruelty, indulgence in prohibited acts, theft, quarrels, imprisonment, 
maternal uncles, maternal aunt, step-mother, pets, cattle, quadrupeds, flavours of food, 
servants, subordinates, nuisances in general. 

In medical astrology: Intestines, umbilical region, phlegmatic illness, tuberculosis, 
eye disease, poisoning, accidents, operations. 
Seventh House: Spouse, sex partner, marriage, adultery, lust or passion, nature and 
character of spouse, sexual union, secret love affairs, journey, deviation from one's path, 
partnership in business, overt enemies, quarrels, theft, loss of memory, recovery of lost 
wealth, progress, attainment of status, grandfather, brother's son, death. 

In medical astrology: Lower urinary tract, anal canal, semen, seminal vesicles, 
urethra, prostrate, sexual act. 
Eighth House: Marital status of a woman, longevity, death, obstacle, disgrace, defeat, 
discontinuity, suddenness, unexpectedness, misery, loss of memory, sin, killing a living 
being, capital punishment, nature of death, place of death, wickedness, father's 
indebtedness, deviation from expected norms, frightful place, difficult route, crevices, 
finding faults, humiliation, wife's wealth, sudden unexpected gain, hidden talents, 
spiritual pursuits and attainments, inheritance, son of the elder sister. 

In medical astrology: External genitalia, incurable or chronic disease, loss of a 
limb, longevity, cause of death, severe mental anguish. 
Ninth House: Virtuous deeds, pilgrimages, worship, religious inclination, devotional and 
religious learning, karmas of the present birth, splendour, association with the virtuous, 
auspiciousness, the preceptor or guru, father, austerity, penance, charity, kindness, 
wisdom, knowledge, devotion towards the preceptor, spiritual initiation, mental quietude, 
fame and fortune, progeny, temples, Vedic rituals, long journeys, travel by the sea. 

In medical astrology: Hips, thighs, nourishment. 
Tenth House: Profession, function, source of livelihood, governmental service, honour 
from the king, business, status, wealth, political power, fame, progress, nature of work, 
professional inclination, the treating physician, hidden treasure, prescribed course, 
teaching capability, self-control, dominance, sacrificing nature, proficiency, father's 
wealth and well-being, foreign travel, fmancial status, place of residence, performance of 
sacred and religious deeds. 

In medical astrology: Knee joint, knee cap. 
Eleventh House: Gains of all nature, income, acquisition, fulfilment of desires, nature of 
earning, arrival, rewards, recognition, favours from the ruler, special status, proficiency, 
learning, ancestral property, fondness for precious stones, lost wealth, pursuit of pious 
and religious deeds, profits and returns, elder brother, paternal uncle, longevity of 
mother, material enjoyments. 

In medical astrology: Legs, left ear, left upper limb, recovery from disease. 
Twelfth House: Expenditure, loss of wealth, spending money for prescribed or 
prohibited pursuits, pleasures of the bed, bedroom, mental anguish, loss of sleep, physical 
disease, wickedness, penury, loss or disease of a limb, loss of authority, imprisonment, 
confinement in an enemy's house, loss of spouse, exit from the world, emancipation, 
renunciation, distant travel, foreign land, emigration, loss in travel, paternal 



property ,spiritual learning, secret learning, fear from overt and covert enemies. 
In medical astrology: Sleep disorders, mental imbalance, hospitalisation, feet, left 

eye, death. 



Significations of the Planets 

Planets too, like houses, have their significations. They are as follows: 
The Sun: Physical strength, dominance, influence, courage, valour, bitter taste, land, 
enlightenment, soul, father, father's comforts, king, royal favours, kingly pursuits, high 
status, undisguised conduct, mental purity, kingdom, travelling, summer (Grishma), heat, 
fire, stones, trees with thorns, grass, forests, mountains, eastern direction, half a year, 
river banks, body, face, anger, indignation, hostility, good nature, administration, leader, 
physician, competence, gold, copper, pearls, ruby, ornaments, timber, quadruped, short 
stature, thick yarn, victory, devotion to lord Shiva, Kshatriyas (the 2nd in order in the 
four-castes system), red cloth, saffron, lotus, cow with its calf, the world of mortals. 

In medical astrology: Soundness of health, old age, stomach, bile, heart, right eye, 
bones, fever, inflammation, diseases of the head, headache, baldness, biliary disease, 
injuries from falls, epilepsy, injuries sustained from quadrupeds. 
The Moon: Mother, comforts to and from mother, beauty, facial lustre, gracefulness, 
fame, happiness, vehicles, mind, mental capabilities, intelligence, sense of humour, 
woman's inclination, mental agility, nature of an individual, contentment, laziness, sleep, 
liquids,water, milk, curd, honey, saline, eating, delicious fruits, fish and aquatic animals, 
snakes and other reptiles, flowers, perfumes, blossoms, fine clothes, white colour, 
crystals, silver, bronze, pearls, royal insignia, well, tank, lake, expanses of water, 
pilgrimage, pleasures, splendour, shyness, modesty, mildness, kindness, love, lover, 
affection, royal favour, wheat, white rice, sugarcane, salt, Brahmins, north-west direction, 
rainy season (Varsha), a muhurta (a time period equivalent to 48 minutes), middle age, 
world ofthe Manes. 

In medical astrology: Mental llness, epilepsy, ulcers, acidity, phlegmatic disorders, 
pleurisy, tuberculosis, blood disorders, breast, left eye, malarial fever, fevers associated 
with chills and rigors, sleep disorders, menstrual problems, disease of shoulders, fear 
from watery animals. 
Mars: Courage, valour, aggressiveness, anger, physical strength, pride, arrogance, 
combat, administrative capability, capacity to award punishment, skill in the use of 
weapons, risky ventures, archery, leadership, dominance, fame, victory, army, fort, 
cruelty, adultery, strength of the enemy, king, a fool, arguments, injury, surgery, 
criticism of others, sword, an axe or hatchet, knife, leadership of a village or a town, 
royal, famous, commander of an army, independance, controlling wild animals, non-
vegetarian food, fickle nature, heat, summer (Grishma), southern direction, burns, fire, 
steadfastness, service of the ruler, home, a house, land, soil, burnt place, earthenware, 
goldsmith, gold, copper, good food, craving, persistence, obstinacy, speech, siblings 
(especially younger ones), snake, red colour, blood, gore, red clothes, red flowers, 
poison, bitter taste, pungent taste, sight, day, tree. 

In medical astrology: Bile, marrow, haemoglobin (red pigment in the blood), 
muscles, menstrual cycle in women, accidents, injuries, burns, surgical operations, biliary 
disease, blood disorders, cuts and wounds, dysuria, head injuries, physical fitness and 
vitality. 
Mercury: Education, knowledge, learning, sholarship, grammer, mathematics, astrology, 
astronomy, writing, script, philosophical knowledge, oratory, speech, good conversation, 
power of expression, witty language, intelligence, humility, fear, discrimination, 



editorship, printer, a m1mster, conversation studded with multiple meanings, a trader, 
commerce, treasury, pilgrimage, temples, bad dreams, sculptor, religious rites, devotion, 
mental quietude, fickleness, friends, black magic, self control, birds, horses, knowledge 
of scriptures and Vedanta, renunciation, skill in mantras, yantras as well as tantric 
pursuits, dancing, substances of mixed hues, eunuch, Shudras (the last in order in four-
caste system), seasons, autumn (Sharad), skin moisture, northern direction, green colour, 
a prince, a youth, a child, maternal uncle, maternal grandfather, younger coborns, 
physician, towers of temples, dust, balanced outlook, skill in precious stones, crosswise 
looks. 

In medical astrology: Skin, diseases of the skin, navel, sexual organs, neck, throat, 
nose, lungs, mental aberrations, nervous breakdown, speech disorders, vertigo, 
impotence. 

Jupiter: Successors, sons and daughters, grandchildren, disciples, wealth, treasure, 
classical learning, philosophical learning, judicial learning, Sanskrit language, higher 
education, astrology, astronomy, grammer, Shastras, logic, religious study, Dharma or 
righteous conduct, status, grandfather, elders, teachers, Brahmins (the 1st in order in 
four-caste system), old age, place of pilgrimage, sharp intellect, wisdom, proficiency, 
eloquence, fame and renown, capacity to understand, self-respect, arrogance, 
indignation, writer of books, long poems, mantras or incantations, lecturing and 
delighting an audience, helpful nature, a man of law, a judge, devotion, beneficence, 
penance, self control, royal throne, physical health, valour, progress, understanding the 
minds of others, knowledge of scriptures, decorations, yellow cloth, yellow topaz, yellow 
colour, precious stones, gold, honey, turmeric, salt, cows, buffaloes, elephants, chariot, 
mansion, elder brother, friends, north-east direction, early half of winter (Hemanta), 
spending on sacred deeds, charities, trader, fat in the body. 

In medical astrology: Diseases of liver and gall bladder, obesity, diabetes, pancreas 
and spleen, disease of digestive organs, knee, anaemias, ear trouble, laziness, chronic 
disease. 

Venus: Wife, woman, marriage, conjugal bliss, sexual adventures, romantic conversation, 
amorous sports, love sports in water, overindulgence in sex, sexual perversions, romance, 
adultery, possessing many women, beauty, youth, fame, flowers, love of fragrances, 
tenderness, dealing in perfumes, clothes and articles of beauty, pride in ancient culture, 
servants, fortune, kingdom, royal favours, radiance, ornaments, talents, wealth, 
knowledge of the scriptures, diamonds, pearls, cotton, physical comforts, fame, fine arts, 
music, dance, singing, poetry, drama, vehicles, elephants, horses, cattle, playing on flute 
or violin,voluptuous gait, well-proportioned limbs, spring season (Vasanta), south-east 
direction, middle age, agriculture, family members, bedroom, white flowers, ghee, curd, 
gold, silver, land, good fortune, good food, the Vaishyas (3rd in order in the four-caste 
system). 

In medical astrology: Venereal disease, eye disease, diseases of the urinary system, 
intestinal disease, diabetes, typhoid, appendicitis, exhaustion. 
Satnrn: Longevity, sufferings, misery, ill-health, obstruction, sorrow, distress, death, 
humiliation, servility, stupidity, covetousness, allegation, punishment, incarceration, 
outcaste, a maid servant, separation, slavery, falsehood, illiteracy, exhaustion, exertion, 
indignation, ugliness, dirty dress, shabby looks, eunuch, illegitimate, sins, cruelty, skill in 
law and judiciary, renunciation, detachment, philosophical attitude, directed downwards, 
Shudras, western direction, second half of winter (Shishira), means of livelihood, old age, 



infamy, firmness, indebtedness, penury, income, associatiOn with the wicked, benefit 
from inferiors, hunter, a wanderer, horses, elephants, goats, buffaloes, asses, dogs, oil, 
wood, black metal, iron, lead, black grains, precious stones, ashes, agriculture or farming, 
sexual indulgence, happiness from a woman, long lasting, the servant class, multitudes, 
labourers. 

In medical astrology: Chronic disease, incurable disease, legs, feet, tendons, skin, 
ugly hair, lameness, mutilated limbs, amputation, depression, insanity, idiocy, exhaustion 
and fatigue. 
Rahu: Sudden happening, disinclination, faulty logic, harsh speech, irreligious, adultery 
with a wicked woman, falsehood, sin, wickedness, royal status, royal insignia, benefits 
from outcastes, foreign travel or residence, long travel, pilgrimage, a muhurta (48 
minutes), air, space, breathing, old age, hesitation, poison, snakes, reptiles, south-west 
direction, wandering in difficult terrain, going to the mountains, maternal grandfather, 
gambling, blue cloth, dark flower, emerald, dense forest, sudden disaster, technical 
eduction. 

In medical astrology: Bones, chronic disease, incurable disease, insanity, hiccup, 
phobias, leprosy, weeping wounds, poisoning, snake bites, malignant tumors. 
Ketu: Knowledge of the self, renunciation, knowledge of the mantras and tantras, secret 
learning, detachment, bath in holy rivers, pilgrimage, penance, hunger, vow of silence, 
Vedantic philosophy, disease, physician, a flag, association with hunters, fortune, 
suffering, luxuries, paternal grandfather, vultures, dogs, deer, cocks, pain, injury, 
surgical treatment, horned animals, thorn, stone, trouble from enemies. 

In medical astrology: Chronic disease, tuberculosis, viral diseases, eruptive fevers, 
epidemics, worm infestations, non-healing wounds, mental instability, diseases causing 
diagnostic confusion. 



Planets as Si!mificators for Houses 

Each of the twelve houses has one or more significators or Karakas for it. A 
significator is an additional indicator of the functions of a house. A house may have more 
than one significator. The various significators for different houses are as follows: 
Lagna= Sun 
Second House = Jupiter 
Third House = Mars 
Fourth House =Moon, Mercury 
Fifth House = Jupiter 
Sixth House= Mars, Saturn 
Seventh House =Venus 
Eighth House = Saturn 
Ninth House = Sun, Jupiter 
Tenth House= Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn 
Eleventh House = Jupiter 
Twelfth House = Saturn 



Predictive use of significators 

A significator for a house must be considered when events pertaining to a house are 
being judged. For example, when one wants to know about mother (4th house), the 
Moon (significator for 4th house as well as mother) must also be examined. Or while 
judging in respect of brother (3rd house), Mars (significator for 3rd house as well as 
brother) must also be judged. Besides, the following scheme must be adhered to: 
1. Whatever is considered from the 9th (father), the lOth and the 11th houses from the 
lagna, must also be examined from the 9th, lOth and 11th from the Sun. 
2. Whatever is considered from the I st, the 2nd, the 4th, the 9th and the lOth houses 
from the lagna, must also be considered from similar houses from the Moon. 
3. Whatever is considered from the 3rd from lagna, must also be considered from the 3rd 
house from Mars. 
4. Whatever is considered from the 6th house (disease, enemy, maternal uncle) from the 
lagna must also be judged from the 6th from Mercury. 
5. For progeny, consider the 5th house from lagna and the 5th from Jupiter. 
6. For spouse, consider the 7th from lagna and the 7th from Venus. 
7. Indications of the 8th (death, longevity) and the 12th from the lagna must be 
considered from such houses from Saturn also. 
8. Whatever be the indications of the house, these must also be judged from the lord of 
that house. 



... VIII. .. 

Casting a Horoscope: Cusps of Houses 

Cfi~fitai c:ut~f44i ~er~ 
~: m c:n 3 :a:at ~'"lfCkll 

By whom is this speech willed that people utter? Who is the 
effulgent being who directs the eyes and the ears. 

Kena Upanishad I/1 

A horoscope is a graphic representation of the signs of the zodiac and the planets 
located in those signs. For any given moment, the sign that rises at the eastern horizon is 
considered the beginning point or the first house of the horoscopic chart. The subsequent 
signs represent the subsequent houses of the horoscope. 

The first house or the rising sign is labelled as the lagna or the ascendant. This is the 
most important, since all subsequent astrological exercises are based on this particular 
point. It will be remembered that the earth rotates once in 24 hours on its axis, from west 
to east, thereby causing one apparent revolution of the zodiac around it. All the twelve 
signs of the zodiac thus rise at the eastern horizon, reach the mid-heaven, set at the 
western horizon and again proceed to their starting point once in twenty four hours. The 
lagna is that specific degree on the zodiac which rises at one particular moment of time. It 
is a still picture of the zodiac along with its planets, with the lagna corresponding with the 
rising degree of the zodiac, that constitutes a horoscope. 

The lagna in the horoscope, according to Vedic astrology, represents 
(approximately) the mid-point of the first house. A part of the house thus precedes this 
point and a part succeeds it. This is not so in western astrology where the cusp of a house 
is considered the starting point of that house. 



Importance of Time 

Since the zodiac is constantly moving around the earth, its angular position, and 
that of the rashis and nakshatras attached on it, is constantly changing. It is this regular 
change from moment to moment which differentiates one horoscope from the other and, 
therefore, one person from the other. This underlines the significance of noting down the 
correct time of an epoch, e.g., the birth time in case of the native's birth chart, for casting 
a correct horoscope. 
Recording of time 

The ancient Indian method of recording the birth time considered the beginning of 
day from the moment of sunrise. This has been in vogue in India until recently. The 
more widely used method, however, is the modem method which recognises the passage 
of the Sun across the meridian or mid-heaven to correspond with local noon, and across 
the nadir or lower meridian to correspond with local midnight. The time reckoning is 
done from midnight to midnight. 
Standard time, local time, zonal time 

The time of an epoch is recorded by a watch or a clock. The clock generally 
follows what is called the standard time of a place, which is nothing but the local time of 
a particular place, within the country, which has been considered a reference point for all 
time reckoning for tht country. The standard time has a relation with the Greenwich 
Mean Time (GMT) which is but the local mean time (LMT) for zero degree longitude. 
Places east of Greenwich are ahead of GMT and those west of Greenwich are behind 
GMT in their time reckoning. 

It may be appreciated that time reckoning is a function of the rotation of the earth. 
One rotation in 24 hours is equivalent to 360° of longitude. Thus each fifteen degrees of 
longitude correspond to one hour of time, or each degree to four minutes of time. In 
India, the standard time is reckoned from a place 82.5 degrees east of Greenwich which, 
at a rate of four minutes per degree of longitude, corresponds to five hours and thirty 
minutes of time. Being east of Greenwich, Indian Standard Time (1ST) is five and a half 
hours ahead of the GMT. 

Some very large countries use different time zones or zones separated generally by 
!5° of longitude. Each zone has its own zonal time which is like a standard time for that 
particular zone. Thus there may be several standard times in one country, as happens in 
the USA or Russia. A sound understanding of these time zones is essential in order to 
obviate mistakes in casting astrological charts. 

Another pitfall is the use of summer time (or daylight saving time) in certain 
countries, where all clocks are advanced (generally) by one hour during the summer 
months. One must be aware of the actual dates of the year when changes from normal to 
the summer time, and vice versa, are effected. If such details are omitted, gross mistakes 
may occur in the casting and subsequent analysis of a horoscope. 
Data required for casting a horoscopic chart 
In order to cast a horoscopic chart, the following three things are required: 

I .Date of birth (or of an epoch). 



2.Time of birth: Standard time or local time; information about any zonal time or 
summer time. 

3 .Place of birth: the latitude and the longitude of the place of birth. 
The purpose of the above data is to obtain the correct moment of time so that an 

accurate horoscopic chart can be constructed for a given location. 
Equipment needed for casting a chart 

This is as follows: 
l. Ephemeris for the appropriate year (of birth): An ephemeris is an astronomical 
almanac detailing the daily position of the Sun, the Moon, the planets and the stars, etc. 
In the west, Raphael's Ephemerides, are generally held as the standard ephemerides. 
These give the Sayana or the tropical position of the planets, etc. In India, Lahiri's Indian 
Ephemeris, based on the Chitrapaksha Ayanamsha, is the best and gives the Niryana OT 
the sidereal positions of the planets, etc., which are better suited for Vedic astrology. 
Lahiri's Ephemerides are available for each year, as well as in the form of condensed 
ephemeris. 

2. Tables of Ascendants: These are ready-made tables which give data about calculating 
the degree of the ascendant for varying latitudes. In India, Lahiri's tables based on the 
Niryana system are the most popular and are highly recommended. However, any tables 
based on the Sayana system are equally good. As the difference between the Sayana and 
the Niryana systems is that of the Ayanamsha only, it is quite in order to work out the 
ascendant on the Sayana basis and subtract the Ayanamsha from it to obtain the Niryana 
values. 

The above mentioned tables also help one to calculate the tenth house or the 
meridian. From this, the remaining house cusps can be calculated. 
3. Gazetteer for finding latitude and longitude of the place of birth. This information, 
pertaining to major cities of India and abroad, is tabulated at the end of the 'Tables of 
Ascendants' referred to above. 



Steps in Calculating the Ascendant 

The important steps involved in calculating the ascendant at a particular place, for a 
given moment, are given below. 
I. Local mean time of the place of birth: From the time of birth available as a standard 
time (e.g., Indian Standard Time) or a zonal time, determine the local mean time (LMT) 
of birth or the local time of birth for the place in question by applying the appropriate 
correction. 

If the place in question falls to the east of the meridian of reference for a country, 
add four minutes for each degree of difference of longitude between the place and the 
reference point. lf it falls to the west, subtract at the rate of four minutes per degree of 
difference of longitude. 

The ascendant or the rising sign is based on the local time and not on the standard 
or zonal time for a country or a zone. 
2. Sidereal time: From the LMT, determine the sidereal time. This is important because 
the tables of ascendants are based on the sidereal time. As has been already pointed out, 
for the same sidereal time for a given latitude, the time of rising as well as the span of the 
various signs of the zodiac is the same. 

The value of sidereal time available from ephemeris or from the 'Tables of 
Ascendants' is for 12 noon, local mean time, of each day. Around autumn equinox, these 
values coincide while around vernal equinox they are about twelve hours apart. lt will be 
recalled that a sidereal day is about 4 minutes shorter than a civil day of 24 hours. This 
difference of 4 minutes for every 24 hours of the clock time amounts, approximately, to 
10 seconds for every one hour of the clock (i.e., 4 minutes divided by 24 hours). 

To obtain the sidereal time of birth, one has first to note the sidereal time at 12 
noon local mean time. The next step is to consider whether the local mean time of birth 
falls in the forenoon (between midnight and 12 noon) or in the afternoon (between 12 
noon and midnight). ln case of a forenoon birth, subtract as many hours and minutes 
from the value of the sidereal time available from the ephemeris, as the birth time is 
before 12 noon; in case of an afternoon birth, add as many hours and minutes to the 
available sidereal time as the birth is after 12 noon. ln addition, subtract or add, as above, 
a time period at a rate of (approx.) 10 seconds for each hour subtracted or added above. 
This gives the correct sidereal time of birth. 
3. Working out the Ascendant: On the basis of the sidereal time of birth, and the latitude 
of the place, the exact degree of the lagna or the ascendant is worked out. 

Generally the tables of ascendants are based on the Sayana system, so that an 
appropriate ayanamsha has to be subtracted to obtain the Niryana values. Lahiri's tables, 
however, have a Niryana basis. These tables have been constructed on the basis of the 
year 1938 AD. For periods before or after that year, appropriate corrections in respect of 
equinoctial precession have to be applied. 



The Tenth House 

The 'Tables of Ascendants' also gives a table for calculating the tenth house of a 
horoscope. Since we use the sidereal time, for reason mentioned earlier, for a given 
sidereal time the tenth house cusp (as any other house cusp!) is the same for all places 
falling on the same latitude. Also, the tenth house represents the upper meridian or zenith. 
Therefore, its cusp will be the same for all places falling on the same longitude for a 
given moment of time. It is thus understandable that when we use the sidereal time, the 
cusp of the tenth house for a given sidereal time of birth is the same at all places (all 
latitudes and longitudes) on earth. 



CUSPS of the remaining houses 

Described here is the standard method of determining the cusps of various houses 
in Vedic astrology. 
Six signs added to the cusp of ascendant gives the cusp of the 7th house or the 
descendant. 
Six signs added to the cusp of the tenth house gives the cusp of the 4th house or nadir, a 
lower meridian. 
One-third the difference between the ascendant and the tenth house, when added to the 
cusp of the lOth house gives the cusp of the lith house; two-thirds this difference added 
to the lOth house gives the cusp of the 12th house. 
One-third the difference between the lagna and the 4th house, when added to the lagna, 
gives the cusp of the 2nd house; two-thirds this difference added to the lagna gives the 
cusp ofthe 3rd house. 
Cusps of the 5th, 6th, 8th and 9th houses are obtained by adding six signs respectively to 
the cusps ofthe 11th, 12th, 2nd and 3rd houses. 
Bhava-Sandhis or junctional points of the houses 
Midway between the cusp of the 12th house and the lagna is the junctional point of the 
lagna and the 12th house. 
Midway between the cusp of the lagna and the cusp of the 2nd house is the junctional 
point of the lagna and the 2nd house. 
Between the above mentioned two junctional points is the extent of the lagna. 
The junctional points of the remaining houses, and their extents can be similarly worked 
out. 



Calculating the Ascendant and the lOth house - an example 

Let us now take a practical example, and cast the lagna and the lOth house for a 
native born on Jan 4, 1995 (Wednesday) at 2:52 PM (JST) at latitude 28°N39' and 
longitude 077°El3'. 

Step I 

From the Indian Standard Time ofbirth (2:52 PM), obtain the local mean time by 
subtracting 4 minutes per degree of longitude that the place in question falls to the west 
ofthe standard meridian for India (viz., 82°E30'). 

h 111 s 
IST = 2 52 00 
Cort'ection for place : 21 08 

(82°30'- 77°13!::o 5°17'; 
5°17' I 4 =21m Ss) 

LMT 2h 30m 52s 

Note: This value mav be rounded off to 2h 31m for convenience. 

Step2 

Obtain the sidereal time for Jan 4, 1995 at 2h 31m LMT. This is done from the 
ephemeris or from the 'Tables of Ascendants'. 

Sidereal time for 12 noon h m s 
on Jan. -1, 1995 18 53 35 
Correction for the 
above longitude + 03 
Corrected sidereal time 

for 12 noon 18h 53m 38s 

Since the time ofbirth falls 2 hours and 31 minutes after 12 noon, we have to add 



this period as well as a time value of about 10 seconds per hour of this time or about 25 
seconds (for 2 hours and 31 minutes). 

Thus, sidereal time for h lll s 
2h:31m P:\I (L:\IT) 
on Jan.~. 1995 18 53 38 

+ 2 31 00 
+ 25 

or 21h 25m 03s 

Note: This maY be rounded off to 21h 25m for convenience. 
As already indicated, for births occurring before 12 noon, a corresponding amount 

of time has to be subtracted from the sidereal time for 12 noon. Let us prsume that, 
instead of occurring 2 hours and 31 minutes after 12 noon, the birth occurred the same 
number of hours and minutes before noon (i,e., at 9:29 am) on Jun. 4, 1995. The 
corresponding period will have to be subtracted from the corrected sidereal time for 12 
noon. We will then have: 

Sidereal time for h m s 
9:29AM (LMT) 18 53 38 
on Jan. 1995 2 31 00 

25 

or 16h 22m 13s 

Step 3 

From the 'Tables of Ascendants', find out the ascendant for the latitude of the 
place, for the sidereal time obtained above. 

1n case the Sayana tables are available, the cusp of the ascendant obtained will be 
the Sayana cusp. The value of ayanamsha for the year of birth is to be subtracted from 
this to obtain the Niryana lagna, as is required in Vedic astrology. 

1fLahiri's tables with Niryana basis are available, the lagna degree available will be 
for the year 1938 AD to which appropriate ayanamsha correction for the year 1995 AD 



(the year ofbirth of the native) will need to be applied. 
The calculation hereunder is based on Lahiri's Tables with a Niryana basis. In the 

relevant tables for latitude 28°N39': 

(i) Ascendant for Sidereal time 
lih 28m Is I3° Il' 

(ii) Ascendant for Sidereal time 
lih 24m I~ I2° 09' 

(iii) Change in ascendant for 
4 minute change in sidereal time 1° 03' 

(iv) Change in ascendant for 1 minute 
change in sidereal time 0°15'45" 
(1°03' divided b~· 4) 

(v) Ascendant for Sidereal time 
2Ih 25m = Is 12° 24' 45" 

(vi) Ayanamsha correction for the 
real' 1995 = 48' 

(\'ii) Therefore, the correct ascendant Is 11° 36' 45" 
or Vrisha 11°36'45". 

Step4 

The tenth house is similarly obtained from the tables which are appropriate for all 
places on earth. Referring to the said tables we find: 



(i) Tenth house for Sid. time 
21h 28m = 

(ii) Tenth house for Sid. time 
21h 24m 9' 25° 34' 00" 

(iii) Cha uge in lOth house for 
4m change in Sid. time 

(iv) Change for 1m change 
in Sid. time 15' 15" 

(v) Tenth house for Sid. time 
21h 25m 9' 25° 49' 15" 

(vi) Ayanamsha corr. for 1995 AD 48' 
('·ii)Thus! the tenth house 9' 25° 1' 15" 

or Makara 25° 1'15". 

Calculating the remaining houses and their juctional poiuts 

Having determined the lagna and the tenth house, it is easy to determine the 
remaining houses. Here the lagna is Is II 036'45" and the 1Oth house is 9825°1 '15". 
(i) Seventh house: Adding 6 signs (180 degrees) to the lagna we get the cusp of the 7th 
house. ln the present example it will be: 78 II OJ6'45" 
(ii) Fourth house: Adding 6 signs (180 degrees) to the cusp of the lOth house, we get the 
cusp of the 4th house. Thus the 4th house cusp here is: 3825°1'15". 
(iii) Houses eleven and twelve: The difference between the lagna and the tenth house 
(i.e., cusp of the lagna minus the cusp of the lOth house; 38 16°35'30" in our example) is 
divided by three, and the result obtained (JS5°3l '50") added to the lOth house to get the 
II th house; and to the II th house to get the 12th house. ln our example., 

lith house= 11' oo 33' 5" 

12th house= 0' 4' 55" 
(iv) Houses two and three: One-third the difference between the lagna and the fourth 
house (i.e., cusp of the 4th house minus the cusp of the lagna, or 2sl3°24' 30", divided 
by 3 giving us a value of0s24°28'10") is added to the lagna to obtain the 2nd house, and 
again to the 2nd house to obtain the 3rd house. ln our example, 

2nd house= 2' 4' 55" 



3rd house "' 3' 0° 33' 5" 
(v) Remaining houses: Houses 5, 6, 8 and 9, are obtained by adding six signs to the 
houses II, 12,2 and 3 respectively. The cusps of the various houses in th example under 
consideration may be tabulated as follows (Table VIII-!). 

Tn ble VIII -1 

House C11sp House Cusp 

s d m s s d m s 
1st house 1 1136~5 7th house 7113645 
:2nd house "' 6 455 8th house 8 6 455 
3rd house 3 033 5 9thhou.se 9 0 33 5 
4th house 3 25 115 10thhou.se 9 25 115 
5thhou.se 5 033 5 11th house 11 033 5 
6thhou.se 6 6 455 12thhou.se 0 6 455 

The Bhava-Sandhis or junctional points of the various houses are obtained easily by 
determining the mid-point between the adjacent houses. For example, 

(i) The mid-point between the 12th house (Os6°4'55") and the Lagna (1 s II 0 36'45") is 
os23°50'50", being half the distance between the cusps of the two houses. 
(ii) Similarly, the mid-point between lagna (I S]] 0 36'45") and the 2nd house (2 s6°4'55") 
is I s23°50'50" being half the distance between the cusps of the two houses. 

(iii) The first house thus extends from os23°50'50" to I s23°50'50". 
(iv) The junctional points between all the other houses, and thus the extent of each house, 
can be determined in a similar manner. 

Table VIII-2 shows the beginning, the midpoint (cusp) as well as the end of the 
various houses for the chart under consideration. 



Table YIII-2 

House Begui11 illg Cusp End 

sdm s sdms s d Ill s 
1st House 0 23 50 50 11136 45 1235050 
2nd House 123 50 50 2 6 455 21819 0 
3rd House 2 18 19 0 3 033 5 312 4710 
4th House 3 12 4710 3 25 115 412 4710 
5th House 4 12 4710 5 033 5 s 1819 0 
6th House 5 18 19 0 6 6 455 623 5050 
7thHouse 623 5050 7 113645 7235050 
8th House 7 23 50 50 8 6 455 81819 0 
9th House 8 18 19 0 9 033 5 912 4710 
lOth House 912 4710 9 25 145 10 12 4710 
11 th House 10 12 4710 11 033 5 111819 0 
12th House 1118 19 0 0 6 455 023 5050 

Note: The cusp or the mid-point (Bhava-madhya), as mentioned above, does not 
fall at the exact mid-point of the arc or the extent of a house. Each house thus has two 
parts: the Poorva Bhaga or the first part, and the Uttara Bhaga or the subsequent part. 



Ascendant for a foreign birth 

Lahiri's 'Tables of Ascendants' can also be used for births outside India. The 
method employed for the purpose is the same. One has to arrive at the correct sidereal 
time of birth of the native. This needs an understanding of the standard time for the 
country of birth, as also the appropriate time zone if the country has more than one 
standard time. This may be illustrated with an example. 

Let us consider a birth occurring in New York (USA), Lat. 40°N43', Long. 
074°WOO' on May 22, 1949 at II :43 PM (Eastern Daylight Saving Time, EDT). 

Since the daylight saving time (the summer time) is one hour ahead of the normal 
time, the actual normal time of birth is 10:43 PM. 

LMT = 10:43 PM+ 4 minutes= 10:47 PM. 
Note: New York falls in a zone, five hours behind the GMT. While five hours are 

equivalent to 75° of longitude (one hour is equivalent to 15 degrees, or one degree is 
equivalent to 4 minutes), New York is only 74° West of GMT. Thus it lies ] 0 east of the 
reference point (75°W) of its zonal time. Thus 4 minutes are added to the zonal time to 
obtain the local mean time. 

Referring to the Tables of Ascendants, we have 

(i) Sidereal time for 12 hour noof!, h Ill s 
local mean time, on May 22 3 57 43 
(ii) Correction for the year 1949 + 3 1 
(iii) Sid. time for May 22, 1949 
for 12b noon lMf is 3h 58m 14s 

(iv) We need the sidereal time for lOb 47m (PM) local time. Since this time is after 12 
noon by I Oh 47m, it is to be added to the above value of Sid. time, after adding the 
correction at a rate ofapprox. lOs per hour oftime. 



h lll s 
Local Time 10 47 00 
correction for lOh 47m 1 47 
Corrected local time 10 48 47 

(v) Therefore the sidereal time 3h 58m 14s 
+ 10 48 47 

14 47 01 

(vi) This is the Indian sidereal time (for 82°E30'). For New York, a correction needs to be 
applied at a rate of0.66 seconds per degree oflongitude. This amounts to +1m 43s. 
So the corrected sidereal time will be: 14h 48m 44s 
(vii) For this sidereal time, the ascendant is worked out as already described, using the 
tables relevant to the latitude of New York. The Tenth house and the remaining houses 
are also worked out as already described. 



Ascendant for Southern Latitudes 

Lahiri's Tables have been constructed for northern latitudes. For southern latitudes, 
tables specifically prepared for the same may be used. However, Lahiri's tables too can 
be used, with slight modification, for the southern latitudes. The method for this is as 
follows: 
I. Determine the sidereal time of birth as explained above. 
2. Add to it 12 hours. Subtract 24 should the result exceed 24 hours. 
3. Determine the ascendant as for a northern latitude, using the time value obtained 
above. 
4. To the ascendant obtained thus, add six signs. Subtract 12 if the result exceeds 12 
signs. 
This will be the ascendant for the corresponding south latitude. 

Note: In the southern latitudes, the duration of signs is different from that in 
northern hemisphere. Signs of long ascension in the northern hemisphere become those 
of short ascension in the southern hemisphere. 

Thus Mesha measures in northern hemisphere, what Tula measures in the southern 
hemisphere. This holds true for other signs too. By adding 12 hours to the sidereal time 
ofbirth and calculating the ascendant on the basis of tables for northern latitudes, we are 
actually calculating the sign opposite to the real ascendant in the southern latitude. To this 
ascendant thus obtained, we add six signs to get the real ascendant. 



Ancient Indian Method of Calculating the CUSP of the Lagna 

It is not our aim to go into the details of this method. Only the principles are being 
enumerated as follows: 
I . Concept of the day: The day, for purposes of astrology extends from sunrise to 
sunrise, and consists of 60 Ghatis. There is thus the importance of the time of sunrise 
which must be calculated accurately. It is the visibility of the upper limb of the disc of the 
Sun that coincides with the sunrise. 
2. Ishta-kaala: The time ofbirth is reckoned in Ghatis and Vighatis,etc, from the time of 
sunrise, and not from midnight onwards as we are accustomed to do these days. This is 
called the lshta-kaala. 
3. Oblique ascension or Rashi Maana: This is the duration of time which a sign takes to 
completely rise above the horizon. This refers to the signs of the tropical or Say ana 
zodiac. The Rashi-Maana is expressed in the time unit called Asu (referred to in an earlier 
chapter) which is equal to 4 seconds. Six Asus or 24 seconds make a Pala or Vighati. The 
Rashi-Maana of the various signs of the zodiac (Sayana) at zero degree latitude (equator) 
are as follows: 

Signs (Saymta) Raslt f• . Jfamw in 
A sus Viglzatis 

Mesha Kanya Tula :\Ieeua 1670 278 
Vrisha Simha Vrischika Kumbha 1795 299 
Mithuna Karka Dhanu Makara 1935 322 

4. Rashi-Maana for other latitudes: This needs an understanding of the ascensional 
differences or Charkhandas for different latitudes. When Charakhandas for a given 
latitude are subtracted from signs Makara to Mithuna, or added to signs Karka to Dhanu 
one gets the Rashi-Maana for the various Sayana rashis for that latitude. For southern 
latitudes, the addition and substraction are reversed. An elaborate discussion on the 
method of determining the Charkhandas for various latitudes is beyond the scope of this 
work. 
5. The Sayana Sun at sunrise: From a Panchanga, the position of the Sayana Sun at 
sunrise is found out. Generally the position of the Sun at sunrise is given on Niryana basis 
in the Panchangas. This can be converted to Sayana value by adding the Ayanamsha for 
the particular year or month of birth. This provides the sign that the Sun is in at sunrise. 
The duration of this sign being known, it is possible to work out how much of this sign 
has yet to rise above the horizon and how much time it will take to do so. After that time 
period, the next sign will rise and take the time that we know. In this way, the rising sign 



for the appropriate Ishta Kaala is worked out. This is the Sayana lagna. 
6. Niryana lagna: Subtract the ayanamsha from the Sayana lagna. This gives the Niryana 
lagna. 



T\l. 
•• .•. L"'.._ ••• 

Casting a Horoscope: Longitudes of Planets 

Ofthe Adityas I am Vishnu; ofthe lights (I am) the radiant Sun; 
ofthe winds I am Marichi; ofthe nakshatras I am (their lord) the 
Moon. 

Gita X/21 

After determining the lagna, or the ascendant, the next step is the calculation of the 
longitudes of planets, also called as Graha-sphutas. These longitudes indicate the 
astronomical location of planets in the zodiac. Since a horoscope is a graphic 
representation of planetary disposition at a given moment, it is imperative that a correct 
calculation for planetary positions be carried out. 

The position of planets is given in various almanacs or Panchangas. In India, there 
are several hundred different Panchangas published from different places. Many of these 
used to give planetary longitudes at the time of local sunrise, generally on four occasions 
during a lunar month, viz., the 8th lunar date of the dark half, the New Moon day, the 
8th lunar date of the bright half, and the Full Moon day. Lately, most of these have 
switched on to the Indian Standard Time, giving planetary positions generally at 5:30 
AM which is equivalent to I2 midnight GMT. 

In India, the ephemeris most popular with the English knowing reader is the 
Lahiri's Indian Ephemeris which is published annually. It gives planetary positions 
according to the Niryana or Sidereal system, for 5:30 AM (IST). It makes use of the 
Chitrapaksha ayanamsha. Ephemerides based on the Sayana or the tropical system can 
also be used. They give the Sayana positions of planets which need to be converted to the 
Niryana values by subtracting the ayanamsha value for the appropriate year of birth. 



Use of Standard Time 

We have used local mean time for the calculation of the cusp of the ascendant, as 
well as other cusps. That was because the rising of signs at any place is dependent upon 
the local time of that place. Thus, for any given time of a clock, different signs will rise at 
different places on the earth. 

The longitude of a planet is the angular distance that the planet makes with the 
centre ofthe earth. This relationship is the same for all places on the surface of the earth. 
In other words, at any given moment, the planetary positions for all places on the earth 
are the same. Lahiri's ephemeris gives planetary positions (Niryana) for 5:30 AM (IST). 
Therefore, for calculation of planetary positions for any given moment, the 1ST must be 
used. In other words, for the calculation of planetary longitudes, the same time measure 
must be employed as has been employed by the ephemeris in use. 



Longitudes of Planets: Steps in calculation 

Let us calculate the longitudes of planets for the native born on Jan. 4, 1995 at 2:52 
PM (IST) at Delhi (same data as used in the example for calculating the cusps for the 
lagna and the houses, Chapter VIII) 

We know that Lahiri's ephemeris gives planetary positions for 5:30AM (1ST) on a 
daily basis. Our epoch (2:52 PM on Jan. 4, 1995) falls between 5:30AM ofJan. 4, 1995 
and 5:30AM of Jan. 5, 1995. Let us consider the longitude ofthe Sun. 

Consider the time of birth as the time elapsed since 5:30 AM (for which planetary 
positions are available). This will be: 

2:52 P:\1- 5:30AM = 9h 22m. 
Position ofthe Sun (see ephemeris) s 0 II 

at 5:30 A:\1 on Jan. 5, 1995 = 8 20 22 40 
at 5:30 .·Bl on Jan. 4, 1995 = 8 19 21 30 

Motion of Sun in 24  hours = 1° 1' 10" 

Motion of the Sun in the time 
elapsed from 5:30 AM to the 
time of birth (i.e., 9h 22m) = 23' 52" 
Adding this to the longitude 
of the Sun at 5:30AM 
on Jan. 4, 1995 we .get = • 

85 19 45' 22" 

This is the longitude of the Sun for the above mentioned time ofbirth. 
Longitudes of the remaining planets can be similarly calculated. 

Longitude ofR etrograde Planets 
A retrograde planet moves in the reverse direction and, instead of increasing, its 

longitude decreases as the time elapses. Rahu and Ketu often move in retrograde direction 
only. Other planets, except the Sun and the Moon, are subject to retrogression from time 
to time. 

For the birth data given above, Mars is also retrograde.Let us calculate the position 



of Mars. 

Longitude ofMars : 0 I 

on Jan. ~,1995 4 8 51 00 
ou Jan. 4_,1995 4 8 52 00 

Movement in 24 hours 1' 00" 

Movement for the elapsed time 
(i.e., 9 hours 22 minutes) 23" 

Adding this to the longitude of Mars on Jan 4, 1995, we get 4s8°51'37" as the 
longitude of Mars for the said time of birth. 

Thus, in case of retrograde planets, the movement proportionate to the elapsed time 
gets subtracted from the given longitude. 

The longitudes of all the planets, based on the above birth data, may be tabulated as 
in Table IX-I. 

Note: Rahu and Ketu are 180 degrees or six signs apart. Ketu's position is obtained 
by adding 6 signs to the longitude of Rahu. 



Table IX-1 
Longitudes of Planets 

Planet Longitude 
s 0 , 

1. Suu 8 19 45 22 
2. :\loon 9 29 02 36 
3. Mars (R) 4 08 5137 
4. Mercury 9 02 07 51 
5. Jupiter 711 36 41 
6. Venus 7 03 13 15 
7. Saturn 10 14 29 20 
8. Rahu 6 18 57 29 
9. Ketu 018 57 29 

Considering Vrisha as the lagna arrived at in the preceding chapter, for the same 
birth data, the basic horoscopic chart (or the Rashi chart) may be depicted as below. 



~ 
Kctu Lagna 

Saturn 

r-.loon ~l:m 
Mcrcun· 

' (R) 

Sun Jupitt:r Rahu 
Venu~ 

Lahiri's ephemeris which gives planetary positions for 5:30 am (IST) can also be 
used in case of foreign births. In such cases, the time of birth (expressed as the standard 
time or the zonal time) must be converted to its equivalent Indian Standard Time for 
determining the planetary positions. 



... x ... 
Vargas or Subtle Divisions 

Q~~lf~ ~ai«1a ~ ~ ijCITtaS!ll '1dfa~'ltHis~UI1J 
dtiJIUI Gl~i Cfiliftl <a+OO~QlP:tJ ijcffj {•li~ ft{~liJ I 

In Ycmr feotfy, 0 Lord, I see all the gods and the varied 
multitudes ofbeings as well, and Brahma (the Creator) seated on 
the lotus throne, and all the sages as also races of the serpents 
divine. 

Gita XI/15 

It is easy to appreciate that any given sign remains on the horizon for an average of 
two hours, plus or minus a few minutes. This means that all persons born during that time 
will have a similar planetary disposition in their charts. Also, a given sign rises on the 
horizon at approximately the same time (with a difference of approx. 4 minutes) on the 
subsequent day also. It is possible that the planetary disposition as well as the rising sign 
may remain unaffected even if the two births happen a day apart. In cases of twins too, 
where the rising signs and the planetary positions are likely to be similar, segregation of 
the natives appears difficult. 

One of the very brilliant methods of overcoming the difficulties mentioned above 
is the use of vargas or subtle divisions. Each sign is divided into a specific number of 
parts. Thus, the lagna or the rising sign falls in a specific area of a division. In any given 
division or varga, the placement of the lagna and the planets forms that specific varga or 
divisional chart. 

Parashara describes sixteen divisions called as the Shodasha-vargas. These vargas 
not only help segregate the apparently similar charts, they also specifically deal with 
specific areas of a native's life. Thus, the use of vargas is essential in order to make 
accurate and specific predictions. 
The sixteen vargas of Parashara are as follows: 
1. Rashi or the complete sign of 30°. 
2. Hora or one-half of a sign (15°). 
3. Drekkana or one-third of a sign (10°). 
4. Chaturthamsha or one-fourth of a sign (7°30'). 
5. Saptamsha or one-seventh of a sign (4°17'8.5"). 
6. Navamsha or one-ninth of a sign (3°20'). 



7. Dashamsha or one-tenth of a sign (3°). 
8. Dwadashamsha or one-twelfth of a sign (2°30'). 
9. Shodashamsha or one-sixteenth of a sign (I 0 52'30"). 
10. Vimshamsha or one-twentieth of a sign (I 0 30'). 
11. Chaturvimshamsha or one-twentyfourth of a sign (I o 15'). 
12. Bhamsha (Sapta-vimshamsha) or one-twentyseventh of a sign (I 0 6'40"). 
13. Trimshamsha or one-thirtieth of a sign (I 0 00'). 
14. Khavedamsha or one-fortieth of a sign (0°45'). 
15. Aksha-vedamsha or one-fortyfifthof a sign (0°40'). 
16. Shashtyamsha or one-sixtieth of a sign (0°30'). 
These sixteen vargas are briefly described below. 
I. Rashi: This comprises one full sign of30 degrees. A rashi chart is the basic horoscope. 
Here, the lagna depends upon the sign rising at the horizon at the time of birth. The 
planets are located in the signs which they occupy in the zodiac. 
2. Hora (Table X-1): Here, a sign is divided into two parts of 15° each. This is arrived at 
thus: 

(a) The first 15 degrees in an odd sign belong to the Sun (or the sign Simha) and 
the second 15 degrees to the Moon (or the sign Karka). 
(b) The first 15 degrees in an even sign belong to the Moon (or Karka) and the 
second 15° to the Sun (or Simha). 

Table X-1 
The Hora Chart 

Signs~ 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1 0 1 1 1 2 
Degree.,J, 

s M S M S :\I S M S :\I S M 

M S M S :\1 S M S :\1 S 

3. Drekkana (Table X-2): When a sign is divided into three equal parts of 10° each, such 
parts are called as Drekkanas. 1n each sign, the first Drekkana belongs to the same sign; 



the second Drekkana belongs to the sign fifth from it; and the third Drekkana to the sign 
ninth from it. 

TableX-2 
The Drekkana Cha 11 

Signs~ 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
Drekkaua~ 

1st 00-10° 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
2nd 10°-20° 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 
3rd 200-300 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 

4. Chaturthamsha (Table X-3): This comprises one-fourth of a sign, being equivalent to 
]030'. Here, the first ]030' of a sign belong to the same sign, the second 7°30' (i.e., ]030' 
to 15°0') belongs to the sign falling in the fourth house from it; the third (15°0' to 22°30') 
to the sign seventh from it and the last (22°30' to 30°0') to the sign falling tenth from it. 

Table X-3 
The Chaturthamsha Chart 

Signs ~ 1 2 34 5 67 8 9101112 
Chaturthamsha ~ 

0°-7°30' 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
7°30'-1500' 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 
1500'-22°30' 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 
22°30' -30000' 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 

5. Saptamsha (Table X-4): A sign of 30 degrees is divided into seven equal parts (of 
4°17'8.5" each). In odd signs, the seven parts belong to the seven signs falling in regular 



order from the odd sign concerned. In even signs, the first part belongs to the sign 
seventh from it, and the remaining six signs follow in regular order. 

Table X-4 
The Saptamsha Chart 

Signs 7 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
Sa pta msha .J, 

1. 04°17'08" 1 s 3 10 5 12 7 ') 9 4 11 6 
2. 08°34 '17" ') 9 4 11 6 1 8 3 10 5 12 7 
3. 12°51 '25" 3 10 5 12 7 2 9 4 11 6 1 8 
4. 17°08'34'' 4 11 6 1 s 3 10 5 12 7 2 9 
5. 21°25'43" 5 12 7 2 9 4 11 6 1 8 3 10 
6. 25°42'51" 6 1 8 3 10 5 12 7 2 9 4 11 
7. 30°00'00" 7 2 9 4 11 6 1 8 3 10 5 12 

6. Navamsha (Table X-5): This is the most important of the divisional charts. Here, each 
sign is divided into nine equal parts of 3°20' each. In movable signs, the first Navamsha 
belongs to the same sign, and the remaining eight Navamshas follow in regular order 
from it. In the fixed signs, the first Navamsha belongs to the sign falling in the ninth 
house from it. In case of the mixed signs, the first Navamsha belongs to the sign falling in 
the fifth house from it. It is said that a planet gives its effect more certainly according to 
its Navamsha than its Rashi position. When a planet occupies the same sign in the Rashi 
chart as also the Navamsha chart, it is called Vargottama, a highly beneficial situation. 



Table X-5 
The Navamsha Chart 

Signs~ 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 
;\a,·amsha "' 
1. J020' 1 10 7 4 1 10 7 4 1 10 7 4 
2. 6°4{)' 2 11 s 5 2 11 s 5 2 11 s 5 
3. 10000' 3 12 9 6 3 12 9 6 3 12 9 6 
4. 13<>20' 4 1 10 7 4 1 10 7 4 1 10 7 
5. 16°40' 5 2 11 s 5 2 11 8 5 2 11 s 
6. 20000' 6 3 12 9 6 3 12 9 6 3 12 9 
7. 23<>20' 7 4 1 10 7 4 1 10 7 4 1 10 
8.26°40' 8 5 2 11 8 5 2 11 8 5 2 11 
9. 30000' 9 6 3 12 9 6 3 12 9 6 3 12 

7. Dashamamsha (Table X-6): Each Dashamamsha division consist of 3°. In odd signs, 
the first three degrees belong to the same sign, the next three degrees to the sign falling 
next in order, and so on. In even signs, the first three degrees belong to the sign falling in 
the ninth house from itself, the next three degrees to the next (or the tenth) sign, and so 
on. 



Table X-6 
The Dashamamsha chart 

Signs~ 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
Dasha ma msha .J, 

1. oo. 30 1 10 3 12 5 2 7 4 9 6 11 s 
2. JO. 6o 2 11 4 1 6 3 8 5 10 7 12 9 
3. 60- 90 3 12 5 2 7 4 9 6 11 8 1 10 
4. 90-120 4 1 6 3 8 5 10 7 12 9 2 11 
5. 12°-15° 5 2 7 4 9 6 11 8 1 10 3 12 
6. 15°-lSO 6 3 8 5 10 7 12 9 2 11 4 1 
7. 18°-:!1° 7 4 9 6 11 s 1 10 3 12 5 2 
8. 21°-24° 8 5 10 7 12 9 2 11 4 1 6 3 
9. 24°-27° 9 6 11 s 1 10 3 12 5 2 7 4 
10.27°-30° 10 7 12 9 2 11 4 1 6 3 8 5 

8. Dwadashamsha (Table X-7): This comprises of one-twelfth of a sign, and is equivalent 
to 2°30'. The first Dwadashamsha of a sign belongs to the same sign, the remaining 
eleven Dwadashamshas fall in subsequent eleven signs in regular order. 



Tab1eX-7 
The Dwadashamsha chart 

Signs -7 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
Dwadashamsha -l-

1. 0000'-2°30' 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
2. 2°30'-5°00' 2 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 1 
3. 5°00'-7°30' 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 
4. 7030'-10000' 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 
5. 10°00'-12°30' 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 
6. 12°30'-15°00' 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 1 ., 3 4 5 
7. 15°00'-17030' 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 
8 . 17°30'-20°00' s 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
9. 20°00'-22°30' 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
10. 22030'-25°00' 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
11. 25000'-2 7°30' 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
12. 27°30'-30°00' 12 1 ., 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 

9. Shodashamsha (Table X-8): Here, a sign is divided into sixteen divisions comprising of 
I0 52'30" each. In movable signs, the first Shodashamsha starts from Mesha; the next one 
is Vrisha, and so on, until the twelfth which is Meena. From the thirteenth Shodashamsha, 
the order starts from Mesha again and proceeds in the same manner until the sixteenth 
Shodashamsha falls in Karka. 

In case of fixed signs, the first Shodashamsha is Simha, and the last Vrischika. In 
mixed signs, the first Shodashamsha is Dhanu and the last Meena. 



Table X-8 
The Shodashamsha chart 

Signs~ 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
Shodasha msha "-

1. 0 - 1°52'30" 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 
2. - 3°45'00" 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 
3.- 5°37'30" 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 
4. - 7°30'00" 4 s 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 
5.- 9~2'30" 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 
6. - 11°15'00" 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 
7. - 13C07' 30" 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 
8. -15c00'00" 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 
9.-16°52'30" 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 

10. - 18°45'00" 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 
11. -20°37'30" 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 
12. - 22°30'00" 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 
13. - 24022'30" 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 
14. - 26°15'00" 2 6 10 -') 6 10 -') 6 10 2 6 10 
15. - 28°07'30" 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 
16. - 30COO'OO" 4 s 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 

10. Vimsharnsha (Table X-9): This is the twentieth division of a sign measuring 1" 30' of 
arc. In movable signs, it starts from Mesha, in fixed signs from Dhanu and in mixed signs 
from Simha. Subsequent Vimshamshas belong to the signs falling in order subsequently. 



Table X-9 
The \'i.mshamsha chart 

Signs 7 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
\"imsha msha "'-

1. 0°00'- 1°30' 1 9 5 1 9 5 1 9 5 1 9 5 
2. 1 °30'- 3°00' 2 10 6 2 10 6 2 10 6 2 10 6 
3. 3000'- 4°30' 3 11 7 3 11 7 3 11 7 3 11 7 
4. 4°30'- 6°00' 4 12 8 4 12 8 4 12 8 4 12 8 
5. 6°00'- i 030' 5 1 9 5 1 9 5 1 9 5 1 9 
6. 7°30'- 9000' 6 2 10 6 2 10 6 2 10 6 2 10 
7. 9°00' -1 0030' 7 3 11 7 3 11 7 3 11 7 3 11 
8. 10°30'-12000' 8 4 12 8 4 12 s 4 12 8 4 12 
9. 12°00'-13°30' 9 5 1 9 5 1 9 5 1 9 5 1 

10. 13°30'-15°00' 10 6 2 10 6 2 10 6 2 10 6 2 
11. 15000'-16°30' 11 7 3 11 7 3 11 7 3 11 7 3 
12.16°30'-18000' 12 8 4 12 8 4 12 8 4 12 8 4 
13. 18°00'-19030' 1 9 5 1 9 5 1 9 5 1 9 5 
H. 19°30'-21°00' 2 10 6 2 10 6 ., 10 6 2 10 6 
15. 21000'-22°30' 3 11 7 3 11 7 3 11 7 3 11 7 
16. 22°30'-24°00' 4 12 8 4 12 8 4 12 s 4 12 8 
17. 24000'-25°30' 5 1 9 5 1 9 5 1 9 5 1 9 
18. 25°30' -2 7°00' 6 2 10 6 2 10 6 2 10 6 2 10 
19. 27°00'-28030' 7 3 11 7 3 11 7 3 11 7 3 11 
20. 28°30'-30000' 8 4 12 8 4 12 8 4 12 8 4 12 



11. Chaturvimshamsha or Siddhamsha (Table X-10): Each of these measures 1° 15'. There 
are twenty-four Chaturvimshamshas; they start from Simha in odd signs and from Karka 
in even signs. Subsequent Chaturvimshamshas follow in regular order. 



Table X-10 
The Chatun'i.mshamsha ch:111 

Signs~ 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 
Cha tun·imsha msba-1-

1. 0000'- 1°15' 5 4 5 4 5 4 5 4 5 4 5 4 
2. 1°15'- 2°30' 6 5 6 5 6 5 6 5 6 5 6 5 
3. 2°30'- 3°45' 7 6 7 6 7 6 7 6 7 6 7 6 
4. 3°45'- 5°00' s 7 8 7 8 7 s 7 s 7 8 7 
5. 5000'- 6°15' 9 s 9 s 9 s 9 s 9 s 9 s 
6. 6°15'- 7°30' 10 9 10 9 10 9 10 9 10 9 IO 9 
7. 7°30'- S045' 11 10 11 10 11 10 11 10 11 10 11 10 
8. 8°45'-10000' 12 11 12 11 12 11 12 11 12 11 12 11 
9. 10000'-11°15' I I2 I 12 I2 1 12 1 I2 1 12 

10. 11°15'-12°30' .2 I 2 I 2 I 2 1 2 1 2 1 
11. 12°30'-13°45' 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 
12. tt"S'-1SW 4 3 4 3 4 3 4 3 4 3 4 3 
13. 15000'-16°15' 5 4 5 4 5 4 5 4 5 4 5 4 
I4. 16°15'-17°30' 6 5 6 5 6 5 6 5 6 5 6 5 
15. 17°30'-18045' 7 6 7 6 7 6 7 6 7 6 7 6 
16. 18°45'-20000' 8 7 8 7 8 7 8 7 8 7 8 7 
17. 20000'-21°15' 9 s 9 8 9 s 9 8 9 8 9 8 
18. 21°15'-22°30' 10 9 10 9 10 9 10 9 10 9 IO 9 
19. 22°30'-.23°45' 11 10 11 10 11 10 11 10 11 10 11 10 
20. 23°45'-25°00' 12 11 12 11 12 11 12 11 12 11 12 11 
21. 25000'-26°15' 1 12 1 12 1 12 1 12 1 12 1 12 
2.2. 26°15'-2 7°30' 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 
23. 27°30'-28045' 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 3 2 
14. 28°45'-30000' 4 3 4 3 4 3 4 3 4 3 4 3 



12. Bhamsha or Sapta-vimshamsha (Table X-ll): There are 27 Bhamshas (of 1 o 6' 40" 
each) in a sign. ln fiery signs (i.e., 1, 5 and 9) they start from Mesha; ln earthy signs (i.e., 
2, 6 and 10), they start from Karka; ln airy signs (i.e., 3, 7 and ll), they start from Tula 
and in watery signs (i.e., 4, 8 and 12), they start from Makara. The subsequent order is 
the usual regular order. 



Table X-11 
The Bhamsha cha11 

Signs -7 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
Bhamsha-l-

1. 0 - 1 006'40" 1 4 7 10 1 4 7 10 1 4 7 10 
2.- 2°13'10" 2 5 8 11 2 5 8 11 2 5 8 11 
3 .. 3~0'00" 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 
4.- 4~6'40" 4 7 10 1 4 7 10 1 4 7 10 1 
5.- 5°33'20" 5 8 11 2 5 8 11 2 5 8 11 2 
6.- 6°40'00" 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 
7. - 7"46'40" 7 10 1 4 7 10 1 4 7 10 1 4 
8 .. 805.3'10" 8 11 2 5 8 11 2 5 8 11 2 5 
9. -10000'00" 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 

10. -11°06'40" 10 1 4 7 10 1 4 7 10 1 4 7 
11.-12°13'20" 11 2 5 8 11 2 5 8 11 2 5 8 
12. -13°20'00" 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 
13. -14°26'40" 1 4 7 10 1 4 7 10 1 4 7 10 
14. -15°33'20" 2 5 8 11 2 5 8 11 2 5 s 11 
15. -16040'00" 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 
16. -17046'40" 4 7 10 1 4 7 10 1 4 7 10 1 
17. -1805.3'20" 5 8 11 2 5 8 11 2 5 8 11 2 
18. -20000'00" 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 
19. -21°06'40'' 7 10 1 4 7 10 1 4 7 10 1 4 
20. -22°13'20" 8 11 2 5 8 11 2 5 8 11 2 5 
21. -23°20'00'' 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 
22. -24°26'40" 10 1 4 7 10 1 4 7 10 1 4 7 
23. -25°33'10" 11 2 5 8 11 2 5 8 11 2 5 s 
24. -26°40'00" 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 
25. -27"46'40" 1 4 7 10 1 4 7 10 1 4 7 10 
26. -2805.3'20" 2 5 s 11 2 5 8 11 2 5 8 11 
27. -30000'00" 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 3 6 9 12 



13. Trimshamsha (Table X-12): Literally speaking, it is considered as one-thirtieth 
division of a sign. Actually, however, each sign is divided into five unequal parts, each 
part belonging to one of the five planets from Mars to Saturn. ln odd signs, the first five 
degrees belong to Mars, the next five degrees to Saturn, the next eight degrees to Jupiter, 
the subsequent seven degrees to Mercury, and the last five degrees to Venus. This order 
gets reversed in case of even signs where the planets Venus, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn and 
Mars respectively own five degrees, seven degrees, eight degrees, five degrees and five 
degrees, in a sign. 

Table X-12 
The T1imshamsha Chart 

ODD Signs EVEN Sigus 
(1,3,5, '7, 9, 11) (2, 4, 6, sl. 10, 12) 

TrimshamsiJa.J, Degrees Lord Degrees Lord 

1. 0-5 Mai's 0-5 Yeuus 
2. 5-10 Saturn 5-12 Mercury 
3. 10-18 Jupiter 12-20 Jupiter 
4. 18-25 :\Iercury 20-25 Saturn 
s. 25-30 Yenus 25-30 :\Iars 

14. Khavedamsha (Table X-13): This is the one-fortieth division of a sign, measuring 
0°45' of an arc. In odd signs, the first Khavedamsha is Mesha; in even signs it is Tula. 
The remaining divisions follow in regular order in both cases. 



TableX-13 
The Khavedamsha chart 

Signs~ 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
I 

Khavedamsha 'i' 

1. 00000' -00045' 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 
2. 00°45'-01°30' 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 
3. 01 °30' -02°15' 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 
4. 02°15' -03°00' 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 
5. 03000' -03°45' 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 
6. 03°45' -040.30' 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 
7. 04°30' -05°15' 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 
8. 05°15' -06°00' 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 1 
9. 06000' -06°45' 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 

10. 06°45'-07°30' 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 
11. 070JO'-OS015' 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 
12. 08°15'-09000' 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 
13. 09000'-0~45' 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 
14. 09°45'-10)30' 2 8 ..,  8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 
15. 10°30' -11°15' 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 
16.11°15'-12°00' 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 
17. 12000'-12°45' 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 
18. 12°45' -13°30' 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 
19. 13°30' -14)15' 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 



20. 14°15'-15°00' 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 .-, 8 2 
21. 15°00' -15°45' 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 
22. 15°45'-16°30' 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 
23. 16°30'-17°15' 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 
24.17°15'-18000' 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 
25. 18C00'-1S045' 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 
26. 18°45'-19030' 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 s 2 8 2 8 
27. 19°30'-20015' 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 
28. 20°15'-21°00' 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 
29. 21000'-21°45' 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 
30. 21 °45'-22°30' 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 
31. 22°30'-23°15' 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 
32. 23°15'-24°00' 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 8 2 
33. 24000'-24°45' 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 
34. 24°45'-25°30' 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 
3~.... . .1..-.l.\ 030'-"-601".... ' 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 11 5 
36. 26°15'-27°00' 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 12 6 
37. 27000'-.27°45' 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 1 7 
38 . .27°45'-28?30' 2 8 2 8 2 s 2 s 2 s 2 8 
39 . .28°30'-.29015' 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 3 9 
40. 29°15'-30000' 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 4 10 

15. Aksha-vedamsha (Table X-14): Each sign here is divided into forty-five parts, of 
0°40' arc. ln movable signs the first such division falls in Mesha; in fixed signs in Simha; 
and in mixed signs in Dhanu. The remaining divisions follow the usual regular order. 



TableX-14 
The Akshandamsha chaJ1 

Signs 7 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 S 9 10 11 12 
.-\ kshaHda msha '-" 

1. 00000'-00040' 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 
2.00°40'-01°:!0' :! 6 10 ., 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 
3. 01 020' -02°00' 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 
4. 0:!000' -02°40' 4 s 12 4 s 12 4 s 12 4 s 12 
5. 0:!040' -03°:!0' 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 
6. 030!0'-04°00' 6 10 2 6 10 -., 6 10 2 6 10 2 
7. 04000'-04°40' 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 
8. 04°40'-05°:!0' 8 12 4 s 12 4 s 12 4 8 12 4 
9. 050:!0'-06°00' 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 

10.06000'-06°40' 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 !> 6 
11. 06°40' -07°20' 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 
12. 07020' -OSOOO' 12 4 s 12 4 s 12 4 s 12 4 8 
13. OSOOO'-OS040' 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 
14. 08°40'-090:!0' :! 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 
15. 09°20'-10000' 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 
16. 10000' -1 0040' 4 s 12 4 s 12 4 s 12 4 s 12 
17. 10°40'-11°:!0' 5 9 1 5 91591591 
18.11020'-12°00' 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 
19. 12COO' -12°40' 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 
:!0. 12°40' -13°:!0' s 12 4 s 12 4 8 12 4 s 12 4 
:!1. 13020' -14°00' 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 5 
22. 14000'-14°40' 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 



23. 14°40'-15°20' 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 
24. 15020'-16°00' 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 
25. 16°00' -16°4{)' 1 5915915 9 1 5 9 
26. 16°40'-17°20' 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 
27.17020'-18000' 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 
28. 18°00'-18040' 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 
29. 18°40'-19020' 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 
30. 19020'-20000' 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 
31. 20°00'-20040' 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 
32. 20°40'-21°20' 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 
33.21020'-22°00' 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 
34. 22°00'-22°40' 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 
35. 22°40'-23°20' 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 
36. 23020'-24°00' 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 
3 7. 24°00' -24°40' 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 
38. 24°40'-25°20' 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 
39. 25020' -26°00' 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 
40. 26000'-26°40' 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 
41. 26° 40 I -27° 20 I 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 
42. 27020'-28000' 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 
43. 28°00' -28"40' 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 
44. 28°40'-29020' 8 12 4 s 12 4 8 12 4 s 12 4 
45. 29020'-30°00' 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 



16. Shashtyamsha (Table X-15): This is the sixtieth division of a sign and measures 0°30' 
of arc. Being very fine, it needs a very accurate time recording in order to be correct. 
Sage Parashara lays a lot of stress on the predictive utility of this sub-division. In practice, 
however, it is rare to be so accurate in one's time recording as to find a correct 
Shashtyamsha. The first Shashtyamsha in a sign starts from the same sign. The subsequent 
Shashtyamshas belong to the subsequent signs that follow in regular order. 



Table X-15 
The Shash~·a msha Chart 

Signs -7 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 
Shashtyamsha-J, 

I. 00000'-00030' 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
2. 00°30'-01°00' 2 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 1 
3. 01000'-01°30' 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 1 2 
4. 01030'-02°00' 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 
5. 02000'-02°30' 5 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 
6. 02°30'-03°00' 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 
7. 03000' -03°30' 7 s 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 
8. 03°30'-04°00' s 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
9. 04000'-04°30' 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 

10. 04°30'-05°00'10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 
11. 05°00' -05°30' 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 10 
12. 05°30"-06°00'12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 
13. 06000'-06030' 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
14. 06°30'-07°00' 2 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 1 
15. 07000'-07°30' 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 1 2 
16. 07°30'-08"00' 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 
17. 08°00'-08"30' s 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 
18. 08°30'-09000' 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 
19. 09000'-09030' 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 
20. 09°30'-10000' 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
21. 10000'-10°30' 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
22. 10°30'-11°00'10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 
23. 11000'-11°30'11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 10 
24. 11°30'-12°00'12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 10 11 
25. 12000'-12°30' 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 
26. 12°30"-13°00' 2 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 1 
27. 13000'-13°30' 3 4 5 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 1 2 
28. 13°30'-14°00' 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 
29. 14000'-14030' 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 
30. 14°30'-15°00' 6 7 s 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 



31. 15000'-15°30' 7 8 9 10 11 12 2 3 4 5 6 
32. 15°30'-16°00' 8 9 10 11 12 2 3 4 5 6 7 
33. 16000'-16°30' 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
34. }6°30'-17°00' 10 11 12 1 , 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
35. 17000'-17°30'11 12 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
36. 17°30'-18°00 12 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 
37. 18000'-1SOJO' 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
38. 18°30'-19000' 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 
39. 19000'-19030' 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 
40. 19°30'-20°00' 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 
41. 20000'-20030' 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 
42. 20°30'-21°00' 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 
43. 21000'-21°30' 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 
44. 21°30'-22°00' 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
45. 22000'-22°30' 9 10 11 12 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
46. 22°30'-23°00'10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
47. 23000'-23°30' 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
48. 23°30'-24°00' 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 
49. 24000'-24°30' 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
50. 24°30'-25°00' 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 
51. 25000'-25°30' 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 
52. 25°30'-26°00' 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 
53. 26000'-26°30' 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 
54. 26°30'-27°00' 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 2 3 4 5 
55. 27000'-27°30' 7 8 9 10 11 12 2 3 4 5 6 
56. 27°30'-2SOOO' 8 9 10 11 12 2 3 4 5 6 7 
57. 28000'-2S030' 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
58. 28°30'-29000' 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
59. 29000'-29030' 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
60. 29°30'-30°00 12 2 3 4 5 6 7 S 9 10 11 



Note: In the Tajika system or the Hindu method of annual horoscopy, some additional 
and special divisional charts are utilised. Those have not been mentioned here. 



Application of the Sixteen Vargas 

The sixteen vargas of a horoscope are supposed to deal with specific areas as mentioned 
below. 
I. Lagna or the Rashi Chart: Physical well being of the native. 
2. Hora: Wealth and prosperity. 
3. Drekkana: Brothers and sisters, and their well being. 

4. Chaturthamsha: Luck; also residence. 
5. Saptamsha: Children and grand-children. 
6. Navamsha: Spouse. 
7. Dashamsha: Any specific benefit; profession of the native. 
8. Dwadashamsha: Father and mother. 
9. Shodashamsha: Pleasures and troubles from vehicles, horses, elephants, etc. 
I 0. Vimshamsha: Spiritual pursuits, penance. 
11. Chaturvimshamsha: Education, learning. 

12. Bhamsha: Strength and weakness. 
13. Trimshamsha: Miseries, troubles. 

14. Khavedamsha: Auspicious and inauspicious happenings. 
15. Akshavedamsha: All things combined. 
16. Shashtyamsha: All things combined. 
Note: 

I. Navamsha is the most commonly used divisional chart which is of extreme practical 
utility. The promise in the Rashi chart must be confirmed in the Navamsha chart before 
making any prediction. lt is said that the planets give their results according to their 
disposition in the N avamsha in preference to their indications in the Rashi chart. 

2. Manasagari has the following areas allotted to seven of the divisional charts. 
(a) Lagna: Body and character. 
(b) Hora: Wealth. 
(c) Drekkana: Results of past karmas. 

(d) Sapthamsha: Number of brothers & sisters. 
(e) Navamsha: All things combined. 
(t) Dwadashamsha: Spouse. 
(g) Trimshamsha: Death. 



3. Sapthamsha may also be employed to ascertain the character or temperament of the 
native. 
4. Khavedamsha and Akshavedamsha are also used to determine the overall strength of 
planets. 



Sub-groups of the 16 vargas 

Those versed in astrology do not always use all the sixteen vargas as mentioned 
above. Out of these, four groups may be considered. In each group, the relative 
significance of the different divisional charts varies. It is customary to consider the 
combined value of the various divisional charts in any of the four groups as equal to 20 
units. These four groups, and the relative value of the vargas constituting them, are as 
follows: 



A. Slzad\'Orgas or six divisions : 
Varga Relari've value 

1. Rashi 6 
2. Hora 2 
3. Drekkana 4 
4. Navamsba 5 
5. Dwadashamsha 2 
6. T t•im shams ha 1 

Total 20 units 

B. Saptavargas or seven divisions : 
Varga Relative t•alae 

1. Rashi 5 
2. Hora 2 
3. Drekkana 3 
4. Saptamsba 2.5 
5. Navamsha 4.5 
6. Dwadashamsha 2 
7. Trimshamsha 1 

Total 20 units 



c. Dasltat•arga6r ten divisions .. 
Varga Relative value 

1. Lagna 3 
2. Shash~·amsha 5 
3. Hora 1.5 
4. Drekkana 1.5 
5. Sapt:nnsha 1.5 
6. Navamsha 1.5 
7. Dash tnantsha 1.5 
8. Dwadashantsha 1.5 
9. Shodashamsha 1.5 

10. Triin shanJS ha 1.5 

Total 20 units 

D. S ltodaslt t•argasr all si.:weedivisions .. 
Farga Reln\tive value 

1. Rashi 3.5 
2. Hora 1 
3. Drekkana 1 
4. Trimshantsha 1 
5. NaYantsha 3 
6. Shod ashatnsha 2 
7. Shashtyamsha 4 
8. Chaturthamsha 0.5 
9. Sapta1nsha 0.5 

10. Dashantsha 0.5 
11. Dwadashantsha 0.5 
12. Vim shams ha 0.5 
13. Cbatun·intsbaJnsb a 0.5 
14. Bhantsha 0.5 
15. Khavedamsha 0.5 
16. Aksha Yedantsha 0.5 

Total 20 units 



Note: It is important to realise the relative importance of the Shashtyamsha (one-
sixtieth division) among the Dashavargas and the Shodashvargas. However, being a very 
subtle division, depending on the most accurate time recording, the Shashtyamsha is 
hardly ever used in practice. 



... XI. .. 

The Sub-Planets 

As fire is obscured by smoke, and as a mirror by dust, as an 
embryo is enveloped by its coverings, so is this (wisdom) 
obscured by that (passion). 

Gita III/38 

There are certain mathematical points which are of particular significance in Vedic 
astrology. These points do not have any physical existence. They, however, function as 
minor grahas or subplanets. They are also called as 'Aprakasha grahas' or non-luminous 
planets. Since their calculation and interpretation add an extra burden on the astrologer, 
most astrologers do not use them routinely in their practice. The subplanets, however, 
offer a very fe1tile area for research. 

The subplanets may be discussed under three distinct heads. 



I. The Gulikadi Group 

This group consists of ftve subplanets. To calculate their position, the day (i.e., the 
time duration from sunrise to sunset) is divided into eight equal parts. The first part 
belongs to the lord of the day itself (e.g., the Sun for Sunday, the Moon for Monday, 
Mars for Tuesday, etc.). Subsequent parts belong to the remaining six planets. The eighth 
part is without a lord. The part ruled by Saturn is called Gulika (or Mandi); that ruled by 
Jupiter is called Yamakantaka, the one ruled by Mars is called Mrityu, the one falling 
under the Sun is called as Kaala or Kaala-Vela, and the one ruled by Mercury is known as 
Ardhaprahara. 

1f the birth has taken place at night, its duration (i.e., the duration of time from 
sunset to sunrise) is divided into eight parts. The first part belongs to the planet falling 
fifth in order from the day lord (e.g., Jupiter for Sunday, Venus for Monday, Saturn for 
Tuesday, etc.). The remaining parts are ruled by the six remaining planets, leaving the 
eighth part without a lord again. The various subplanets coincide with the parts belonging 
to their ruling planets. 

Cast an ascendant for the end of Saturn's part. This gives the longitude of Gulika. 
Ascendants cast for the ending moments of the parts belonging to other planets give 
longitudes of the respective subplanets. 
Mandi: Some people differentiate between Gulika and Mandi. According to them, when 
the day and night are of30 Ghatis (12 hours) each, for a day birth, the Mandi rises at the 
end of 26 Ghatis on Sunday, at 22 Ghatis on Monday, at 18 Ghatis on Tuesday, at 14 
Ghatis on Wednesday, at 10 Ghatis on Thursday, at 6 Ghatis on Friday, and at 2 ghatis on 
Saturday. In case of night time birth, consider the values given for the day falling fifth 
from itself, e.g., 10 Ghatis from the onset of night on Sunday, 6 Ghatis on Monday, 2 
Ghatis on Tuesday, 26 Ghatis on Wednesday, and so on. 

When the duration of the day or of night is different from 30 Ghatis, appropriate 
alterations must be made. An 'ascendant' calculated for the specific time indicated above 
gives the position of Mandi. 
The formula for the calculation of time of rise of Mandi is: 
(a) Day time birth: 

Duration of day in Ghatis/30 x 26, 22, 18, 14, 10, 6, or 2 depending upon the day 
of birth from Sunday onwards. 

(b) Night time birth: 
Duration of night in Ghatis/30 x 10, 6, 2, 26, 22, 18, or 14 depending upon the 
day of birth from Sunday onwards. 



11. The Dhoomadi Group 

Here the following five subplanets are obtained by manipulation of the longitude of the 
Sun. 

(a) Dhooma: Longitude of the Sun plus 4513°20' yields Dhooma, which is a 
representative of Mars. 
(b) Vyatipata (or Pata): 12 signs minus Dhooma yields Vyatipata, a representative of 
Rahu. 
(c) Parivesha (or Paridhi): Add six signs to Vyatipata to obtain Parivesha ruled by the 
Moon. 
(d) Inderchapa (or Chapa, or Kodanda): Represented by Venus, Inderchapa is obtained 
by subtracting Parivesha from 12 signs. 
(e) Ketu (or Upaketu): This is obtained by adding 16°40' to Inderchapa. It represents 
Ketu. Ketu increased by one sign yields the longitude of the Sun. 



III. The Prana-Pada. 

A Pranapada sign is equivalent to 15 Palas (or Vighatis). Each Pala (24 seconds of 
clock time) is thus equal to two degrees of Pranapada. To get the position of Pranapada, 
the following steps must be gone through: 
I. Obtain the Ishta-Kaala or the time of birth since sunrise, expressed in Ghatis and Pal as. 
2. Convert the lshta-Kaala into Palas and multiply by two. This gives the Pranapada 
degrees (one may convert these into signs and degrees by dividing these by 30). 
3. The Pranapada is obtained as follows: 

(i) The Sun in a movable sign: Pranapada degrees + longitude of the Sun 
(ii) The Sun in a fixed sign: Pranapada degrees + longitude of the Sun + 240 
degrees (9th house from the Sun) 
(iii) The Sun in a mixed sign: Pranapada degrees + longitude of the Sun + 120 
degrees (5th house from the Sun) 
The result gives the position of Pranapada in degrees, which can be converted into 

signs. Multiples of 12 signs must naturally be deleted. 



Gulika in Different Houses 

Gulika is considered the son of Saturn. It is a highly malefic subplanet. Its results in 
different houses are being briefly described. Like all malefics, it causes beneficial results 
in houses 3, 6 and 1 l. 
First House: Sickly, sinning, stupid, ill-tempered, excessive sexual urge. 
Second House: Disabled, miserable, wretched nature, shameless, poor, and indulgent in 
immoral acts. 
Third House: Good looking, leader of a village, virtuous, respected by the ruler, wealthy, 
long lived, and without brothers. 
Fourth House: Bereft of all comforts, ailing, sinful, and tormented by excess of Vaata 
and Pitta. 
Fifth House: Destitute, immoral, short-lived, jealous, impotent, irresolute, controlled by 
his wife, speaks ill of others, an atheist; adverse for progeny. 
Sixth House: Healthy, destroyer of his foes, good in looks, liked by females, courageous, 
and kind to others. 
Seventh House: Subdued by his wife, a sinner, weak of limb, adulterous, stupid, 
ungrateful, bereft of friends, lives off his wife's earnings. 
Eighth House: Miserable, tormented by hunger, cruel, very ill-tempered, devoid of 
wealth and virtue. 
Ninth House: Indulgent in wicked deeds, cruel, lacking common sense, a back biter, may 
hurt his parents and preceptors. 
Tenth House: Blessed with sons, varied comforts, inclined towards religious pursuits. 
According to another reading, the native gives up his prescribed duties and performs 
shameful acts. 
Eleventh House: Happy, wealthy, good looking, a leader, of a diminutive body, and 
widely respected. Adverse for elder brother. 
Twelfth House: Indulgent in low deeds, wicked, ill-looking, defective of a limb, lazy, 
associates with fallen women. 



Gulika associated with other planets 

Sun: Hates his father; short life to father. 
Moon: Adverse for mother. 
Mars: Devoid of younger brother; separation from brother. 
Mercury: Insane. 
Jupiter: Indulges in blasphemous heresy. 
Venus: Associates with women of easy morals; sexually transmitted disease. 
Saturn: Chronic illness, short life. 
Rahu: Suffers, and causes, illness through poisons. 
Ketu: Suffers, and causes, injury through fire. 

The results of other subplanets have been described by sage Parashara and others. 
They constitute areas of research, which are beyond the scope ofthis work. 

Note: Aspects of planets modify the above mentioned results substantially. 



... XII ... 

Planetary States of Being 

m f.mT ~ t1~i "9Pifa <a4ttTI 
~flti \J1Bifi1 ~~lf.ot m f.:mr Q~~t1l ~:II 

What is night for all beings is the time of waking for the 
disciplined one; what is the time of waking for (all) beings is the 
night for the sage of vision. 

Gita II/69 

Results arising from various planets are said to be dependent upon certain planetary 
states or Avasthas. A consideration of these planetary avasthas sheds light on some subtle 
predictive principles. Not much research seems to have been done about the avasthas of 
planets as applicable to predictive astrology although several classical writers, from 
Parashara downwards, have mentioned of them. 

Avasthas of planets can be grouped under several heads. They are being briefly 
described here according to information derived mainly from Parashara. 



1. Baladi-Avasthas or Physical States 

Planets belong to one of the five avasthas dependent upon which one-fifth portion 
of a sign they occupy. These five avasthas are called as: 
I. Balavastha or state of childhood: oo to 6° in an odd sign and 24 o to 30° in an even 
sign. 
2. Kumaravastha or state of boyhood: 6° to !2° in an odd sign and !8° to 24° in an even 
sign. 
3. Yuvavastha or state of adulthood: 12° to l8°in odd as well as even signs. 
4. Vridhavastha or state of old age: 18° to 24 o in odd signs and 6° to !2° in even signs. 
5. Mritavastha or state of death: 24° to 30° in an odd sign and oo to 6° in an even sign. 

A planet in its Balavastha fulfils only one-quarter of its promise; one in 
Kumaravastha provides for one-half of its promised result; a planet in Yuvavastha 
produces full results; one in Vridhavastha produces very little result; and the one in 
Mritavastha is incapable of any useful function, or may produce only adverse results. 

Note: 
I. According to the Phaladeepika, a planet in Balavastha indicates progressive benefits, in 
Kumaravastha comforts, in Yuvavastha royalty and in Vridhavastha death and the like. 
The one in Mritavastha is dead and functionless. 
2. The above results must not be applied literally. 
3. No planet can be functionless and each must produce good and bad results according 
to various factors affecting it. The above mentioned results may not be taken as the final 
word. 
4. It is important to correlate the above indications with the dashas of planets. Two 
possible applications that could be studied are: 

(a) Planets in Balavastha may produce their results immediately as the dasha starts, 
and those in the subsequent avasthas do so progressively later, during their 
indicated dash a periods. 
(b) A planet may produce its results at that time of a native's life span as is 
indicated by the avastha to which the said planet belongs. 



II. Jagradadi-Avasthas or States of Consciousness 

Depending upon the level of consciousness of a planet, it may fall into one of the 
three states. 
1. Jagrad Avastha or state of wakefulness: This happens when a planet is exalted or 
located in its own house. A planet in Jagradavastha is capable of yielding full results. 
2. Swapnavastha or dreamful state: This obtains when a planet is located in the house of a 
friend or a neutral. A planet in such a state produces medium results. 
3. Sushupti-avastha or state of sleep: When a planet is either debilitated or in the house of 
an enemy. Such a planet is incapable of any function. 

Note: According to the Jataka Parijata, the above three conditions are based on the 
location of various planets in the Navamsha chart and not in the Rashi chart. This concept 
appears more appropriate. 



III. Deeotadi-Avasthas or Phvsicai-Mental States 

Nine planetary conditions have been described under this head. 
I. Deepta or luminous: A planet in exaltation or its Moolatrikona. Such a planet in its 
dasha period ensures high status, courage, valour, wealth, vehicles, royal favours and 
material comforts. 
2. Swastha or stable: In its own house. Such a planet during its dasha ensures good health, 
education, fame, lands, wife, favours from the ruler and inclination toward religious 
pursuits. 
3. Mudita or delighted: Located in the house of an adhi-mitra or a bosom friend. Its 
promises include money, clothes, perfumes, religious pursuits, vehicles, ornaments, etc. 
4. Shanta or quiescent: In a friend's house. It gives favours from the king, excessive 
wealth, comforts, lands, study of scriptures, pleasures from meditation. 
5. Deena or deficient: A planet in the house of a neutral. It ensures change of work place 
or residence, opposition to one's near and dear ones, humiliation, sickness, etc. 
6. Dukhi or tormented: In the house of an enemy. Such a planet during its dasha gives 
displacement and foreign journey, separation from near ones, fear from thief, fire and the 
king. 
7. Vikala or grief-stricken: Associated with a malefic. This gives mental torment, death or 
separation from friends, troubles at the hands of wife, children and thieves. 
8. Khala or wicked: In the sign of a malefic. It leads to quarrels, separation from father, 
loss oflands and wealth, humiliation at the hands of one's own people. 
9. Kruddha (kopa) or angered: Associated with the Sun (and combust!). This leads to 
inclination to perform sinful deeds, loss ofmoney, wife and children, and eye disease. 
Note: Several writers have mentioned slightly varying names for these avasthas, and also 
varying conditions that characterise them. Some of them, picked up from classical works, 
are as follows: 

(a) Shaanta or Quiescent: In the vargas ofbenefics. 
(b) Shakta or powerful: Not combust. This is the reverse ofKruddha. 
(c) Prapeedit or extremely tormented: Combust, hence equivalent to Kruddha. 
(d) Khala or wicked: Defeated in planetary warfare. This has also been labelled as 
Peedit or tormented. 
(e) Deena or deficient: Debilitated. 



IV. Laiiitadi-Avasthas or Mental States 

There are six of them. 
I. Lajjita or Abashed: A planet is said to be in Lajjita-avastha when it occupies the fifth 
house in association with either of the Sun, Mars, Saturn, Rahu or Ketu. 

A planet in Lajjita avastha leads to irreligious inclinations, loss of discrimination, 
illness to child, aimless wandering, quarrelsome nature, etc. 
2. Garvita or Conceited: In its exaltation or Moolatrikona. 

In the dasha of a planet in Garvita-avastha, one gains royal status, new house, 
learning, wealth, rise in business and varied comforts. 
3. Kshudhita or Hungry: When it occupies the house of an enemy and is aspected by or 
associated with an enemy, particularly if it is associated with Saturn. 

In its dasha, a planet in Kshudhita-avastha leads to sorrow, mental torment, trouble 
from enemies, monetary loss, distorted reasoning and loss of all energy. 
4. Trishita or Thirsty: Placement in a Jalachara or watery sign, aspected by a malefic, 
unaspected by a benefic. 

In its dasha, one suffers illness from association with women, inclination towards 
wicked deeds, loss ofwealth, weakness, and humiliation. 
5. Mudita or Delighted: In the house of a friend, associated with or aspected by friendly 
planets as well as Jupiter. 

The dasha of a planet in Mudita-avastha ensures beautiful garments, ornaments, 
large and spacious house to live in, pleasures from women, lands, residence in royal 
mansions, annihilation of foes, and progress in studies and learning. 
6. Kshobhita or Agitated: This happens when the planet is associated with the Sun 
(combust!) and aspected by malefics and enemy planets. 

Its dasha causes penury, distorted logic, varied torments, loss of wealth, disease of 
the foot, and loss ofwealth through royal disfavour. 

Note: Planets in Kshudhita and Kshobhita avasthas ruin the houses they occupy. 



V. Shavanadi-Avasthas or States of (Mental and Physical) Inclination 

There are twelve states which indicate the mental and physical tendencies of 
planets. They are referred to in the following order. 

l.Shayana or 'recumbent'. 
2.Upavesha or 'sitting'. 
3.Netrapani or 'hands on eyes'. 
4.Prakashana or 'luminous'. 
5.Gamanechchha or 'eager to go'. 
6.Gamana or 'departing'. 
7.Sabhayam Vasti or 'being in an assembly'. 
8.Agama or 'arriving'. 
9.Bhojana or 'eating'. 

I O.Nrityalipsa or 'desire to dance'. 
1 l.Kautuka or 'delight'. 
12.Nidraor 'sleep'. 
Method of determining the above avasthas 
Go through the following steps in respect of the concerned planet: 
(a)Find the product of the following three values: 

(i)Tbe number of the nakshatra (counted in the regular order from Ashwini) which 
the concerned planet is in; 
(ii)The number of the planet in its natural order (considering the Sun as I, the 
Moon as 2, etc., until Ketu as 9); and 
(iii)The number of the Navamsha in the sign which the planet is in. Some 
authorities, instead of considering the number of the Navamsha, take into 
consideration the actual degree of planetary longitude in the sign of its location. 

(b)Add to the above value, the sum ofthe following three values. 
(i)The number representing the native's birth nakshatra (i.e., the nakshatra where 
the Moon of the native is located in the birth chart); 
(ii)The number representing the sign rising in the lagna (Mesha as I, Vrisha as 2, 
etc.); and 
(iii)The Ishta-danda or the number of Ghatis (a ghati is equal to 24 minutes) that 
have elapsed from the time of sunrise upto the time of birth. 

(c)Divide the result obtained above by 12. Note the remainder, which gives the number 
representing one ofthe above mentioned twelve avasthas. 



Determining the Cheshta 
After determining a planet's avasthas, as mentioned above, it is required to find out 

the extent to which an avastha is productive of results. To achieve this, the following 
steps must be gone through: 
(a)Multiply the number representing the above mentioned avastha by the same number. 
(That is, find the square of the remainder obtained as a final result during the process of 
determining the avastha). 
(b)Add to it the constant which represents the first letter of the native's name. Take the 
help of the accompanying table in this regard. 

Numbers 1 2 3 4 5 

First '
~a ~ i 3 u 1;t ae -* o 

letter of Qi ka l]' klla 1J oe a U gha tT cha 
the iJ chha ;;{ ja ~ jba Z ta i5 tha 

native's :Sda G db a 'ij ta ~1 tlia ~ da 

name n cilia -::r na tT pa 'Qi pba a ba 

'+f bha 1f ma Cf va \ l'a ffl1 
i!f va ~ sha tT sha 1t sa ~ ha 

Note: The Sanskrit alphabet does not exactly correspond with the English alphabet. 
Those who do not know the first letter of their name, according to the Sanskrit alphabet, 
need to take appropriate help. 
(c)Divide the sum of (a) and (b) by 12 and note the remainder. 
(d)To the remainder obtained above, add the kshepaka -constant of the planet. The 
kshepaka-constants for the planets from the Sun to Ketu, in their natural order, are: 5, 2, 
2, 3, 5, 3, 3, 4 and 4 respectively. 
(e)Divide the value obtained after step (d) by three. Depending upon the remainder being 
either 1, 2 or 3 (or zero), the relevant Cheshta is called as Drishti, Cheshta, and Vicheshta. 

In Drishti, the result of an avastha is ordinary. In Cheshta, the result is intense. In 
Vicheshta, the avastha produces minimal result. 



It is not proposed here to go into further details, regarding these avasthas and their 
Cheshtas. These form a subject for intense research. 

Note: 
The use of planetary avasthas in astrology needs a very careful consideration. The 

results attributed to avasthas, particularly to what we call as the Mritavastha of the Baladi 
group, could have very different meanings when we take into account the concepts of the 
Jaimini astrology. Astrologers are known to have made very successful predictions, 
especially in timing events, solely on the basis of planetary avasthas, without using any 
dasha. 

See for instance the horoscope of Queen Elizabeth of England who was coronated 
in 1952-53, and continues to be the queen still. See how many planets are above 20 
degrees in her horoscope. 

I\ lcr~ury Sun lhhu 

V~:nus l\ loon 
Queen 

fL,gn;t Eliz:tbcrh 
rolars April 21, 192(, 

Jupir~:r 

Kcm Sat (R) 

Lagna 1"11' l\lars 28'03' Venus 2tOR' 
Sun 7'23' l\ krl'un• 11 "51' Sawrn (R) 1"37' 
Moon 19.22' Jupiter . 29'41' lbhu 27"17' 



R;IIHI fi.agn01 
,\Iars r-.·1 t•rcury Sun 

Saturn Venus r-.·loon 

Qu:cn Victoria 
~hy 2-t, I Rl 9 

Jupiter 

Ketu 

Ltgna 10"57' .Mars 26'20' Venus 5"27' 
Sun 10"47' Mercun· I i'36' Saturn T24' 
~·loo11 12'16' Jupiter. 25'35' Rahu 28"23' 

Then again see the horoscope of Queen Victoria who became queen in 1837 and 
died in 1903, ruling as the world's most powerful queen for 66 long years. 

This is being pointed out because the avasthas have some secret and hidden 
meanings which can be elucidated only after thorough research. 



... Xlll. .. 

Graha Bala or the Strength of Planets 

He. unto whom all desires enter as do waters into the ever filled 
and ever consistent sea, attains peace and not he who yields unto 
his desires. 

Gita II/70 

Planets produce their results depending upon their strength or weakness in a 
horoscope. Determination of the exact strength of planets demands an elaborate 
mathematical exercise. It is proposed here only to give an outline of the method involved 
in determining the strength of planets. For greater details the reader is referred to 
appropriate works on the subject. 

Units of planetary strength 

It is customary to express the strength of planets in Rupas and Shashtyamshas (i.e., 
units and subunits). Sixty Shashtyamshas (subunits) make a Rupa (a unit). 



Shadbala or Six-fold Strength 

Six different sources of strength combine to give a planet its actual strength. These six 
sources of strength, also known as shadbala, are: 
I. Sthana BaJa or Positional Strength. 
II. Dig-Bala or Directional Strength. 
III. Kaala BaJa or Temporal Strength. 
IV. Cheshta BaJa or Motional Strength. 
V. Naisargika BaJa or Inherent Strength. 
VI. Drig-Bala or Aspectual Strength (i.e., strength derived from aspects of other planets). 



1. Sthana BaJa, 

This is the strength of a planet because of its position. This is comprised of: 
I. Uchcha BaJa. 
2. Sapta-vargaja BaJa. 
3. Oja-yugama Rashi BaJa. 
4. Oja-yugama Navamsha BaJa. 
5. Kendradi BaJa. 
6. Drekkana BaJa. 

1. Uchcha BaJa: This is the strength due to exaltation of a planet. A planet gets one Rupa 
(or sixty Shashtyamshas) of strength when at its exact point of exaltation. It gets '0' units 
when at its exact point of debilitation. Between its deep exaltation and deep debilitation 
(i.e., over a span of six signs or 180 degrees), the strength varies fium 60 Shashtyamshas 
to zero Shashtyamsha. Each three degrees of a planet's longitude thus correspond to a 
strength of one Shashtyamsha. 
2. Sapta-vargaja BaJa: The Sapta-vargas comprise of the Rashi, Hora, Drekkana, 
Sapthamsha, Navamsha, Dwadashamsha and Trimshamsha. 
(a)Rashi chart: The allottment of strength varies with the location of the planet as 
indicated. 

(i)In its Moolatrikona: 45.000 Shashtyamshas 
(ii)In its own house: 30.000 Shashtyamshas 
(iii)In the house of Adhi-Mitra: 22.500 Shashtyamshas 
(iv)In the house of a Mitra: 15.000 Shashtyamshas 
(v)In the house of a Sarna: 7.500 Shashtyamshas 
(vi)In the house of a Shatru: 3.750 Shashtyamshas 
(vii)In the house of Adhi-Shatru: 1.875 Shashtyamshas 

(b)The remaining six vargas: In the remaining vargas, the Moolatrikona is not 
considered. Planets in the remaining six categories receive similar strength as mentioned 
above. 

Own house: 30.000 Shashtyamshas 
Adhi-Mitra (bosom friend): 22.500 Shashtyamshas 
Mitra (friend): 15.000 Shashtyamshas 
Sarna (equal): 7.500 Shashtyamshas 
Shatru (enemy): 3.750 Shashtyamshas 
Adhi-Shatru (Bitter enemy): 1.875 Shashtyamshas 



3. Oja-yugama Rashi Bala: The Moon and Venus in even signs, in the Rashi chart, and 
the Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn in odd signs, each get a strength of 15 
Shashtyamshas. Elsewhere they get no strength. 
4. Oja-yugama Navamsha Bala: The Moon and Venus in even signs in the Navamsha, 
and the Sun, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn in odd signs in the Navamsha, each get a 
strength of t5 Shashtyamshas. Elsewhere they get no strength. 
5. Kendradi Bala: Planets located in the kendras obtain 60 Shashtyamshas, those in 
Panpharas 30 Shashtyamshas, and those in Apoklimas obtain 15 Shashtyamshas of 
strength. 
6. Drekkana BaJa: Male planets (the Sun, Mars and Jupiter) in the first Drekkana, 
eunuchs (Mercury and Saturn) in the middle Drekkana and female planets (the Moon and 
Venus) in the last Drekkana obtain 15 Shashtyamshas of strength each. If these planets 
fall outside the prescribed Drekkanas, they get no strength. 



II. Di!!-Bala 

This is the strength that a planet acquires because of the direction of its placement. 
I. The Sun and Mars are strong in the south (lOth house). This means that when either of 
them is located at the cusp of the lOth house, it receives one Rupa or 60 Shashtyamshas 
of strength. In the fourth house, 180 degrees away, each of them receives zero 
Shashtyamsha of strength. ln between they receive proportionate strength at a rate of one 
Shashtyamsha for every three degrees of arc. 

2. The Moon and Venus are fully strong in the north (cusp of the fourth house) and 
obtain no strength in the tenth house. 

3. Mercury and Jupiter obtain full strength in the east (cusp of the lagna) and no strength 
in the seventh house. 

4. Saturn obtains full strength in the west (cusp of the seventh house) and no directional 
strength in the lagna. 



,Ill. Kaala BaJa 

This is dependent upon the moment of birth. It has nine components. 
I. Nata-Unnata Bala: 
(a)The Sun, Jupiter and Venus obtain 60 Shashtyamshas of strength at exact local noon; 
they get zero strength at exact local midnight. In between, their strength is altered 
proportionately. 

(b )The Moon, Mars and Saturn obtain 60 Shashtyamshas of strength at exact local 
midnight; they get zero strength at exact local noon. In between, their strength is altered 
proportionately. 
(c)Mercury always gets 60 Shashtyamshas of strength under this head. 

2. Paksha BaJa: 

(a)Natural benefics (The Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus) obtain 60 Shashtyamshas of 
strength when the Sun and the Moon are 180 degrees apart (i.e., full Moon). When the 
two luminaries are in exact conjunction, they get zero strength. In between their strength 
is altered proportionately. 

(b)Natural malefics (The Sun, Mars and Saturn) obtain full strength (60 Shashtyamshas) 
when the Sun and the Moon are exactly conjunct (new Moon); at full Moon they get zero 
strength. In between, their strength is altered proportionately. 

(c)Multiply the Paksha-Bala of the Moon, as obtained above, by two. This gives the 
actual Paksha-Bala of the Moon for purposes of reckoning of strength. 
3. Tri-Bhaga BaJa: Tri-bhaga is one-third of anything. 

(a)For a day-time birth: Determine the length of the day (sunrise to sunset) and divide it 
by three. 

(i)Birth in the first one-third: Mercury gets full (60 Shashtyamshas) strength. 

(ii)Birth in the middle one-third: The Sun gets full strength. 

(iii)Birth in the last one-third: Saturn gets full strength. 

(b)For a night-time birth: Determine the length of the night (sunset to sunrise) and divide 
it into three portions. 

(i)Birth in the first part: The Moon gets full strength. 

(ii)Birth in the middle part: Venus gets full strength 

(iii)Birth in the last part: Mars gets full strength. 

(c)Jupiter always gets full strength (60 Shashtyamsha) under this heading, whatever the 
time ofbirth. 

4. Abda BaJa: The lord of the first weekday of the year of birth gets 15 Shashtyamshas 
of strength. Here it is not the year of the Christian era that is meant. The year in question 
here is: 



(a)either the year of 360 days calculated from the beginning of the creation (for which 
there are special and tedious methods of calculation involved); 
(b )or the solar year which commences with the entry of the Sun into the sign Mesha of 
the Niryana zodiac. 
5. Maasa BaJa: The lord of the first weekday of the month of birth gets 30 
Shashtyamshas of strength. Again, the month in question is not the calendar month of the 
Christian era. It could be: 
(a)either the month of 30 days calculated from the beginning of creation; 
(b)or the solar month which commences with the monthly solar ingress into Niryana 
signs of the zodiac. 
6. Vaara BaJa: The lord of the weekday ofbirth gets 45 Shashtyamshas of strength. 
7. Hora BaJa: Determine the Hora operating at the time of birth. 1ts lord gets full strength 
of 60 Shashtyamshas. 
8. Ayana Bala: Planets obtain strength by possessing north or south declinations. 
(a)All planets have a strength of 30 Shashtyamshas at zero declination. 
(b)The Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Venus obtain full strength (60 Shashtyamshas) at 24° 
(approx. 23°27') north declination and zero strength at south declination. 
(c)The Moon and Saturn obtain full strength at 24° (approx. 23°27') south declination 
and zero strength at north declination. 
( d)Mercury increases in strength as it moves away from the zero declination (30 
Shashtyamshas of strength) to either north or south declination (full strength). 
(e)The longitudes of planets considered for determination of the Ayana BaJa are the 
Sayana longitudes. A planet has north declination at its Sayana longitude of 0-180 
degrees and south declination at its Sayana longitude of 180-360 degrees. 
(f)The Ayana BaJa of the Sun must be doubled. 
9. Yuddha BaJa: Planets other than the Sun and the Moon, are said to be in yuddha (or at 
war) when they are located within one degree of each other. The planet whose longitude 
is greater is considered subjugated. 

The strength of the conqueror as well as the conquered is determined by adding 
their Sthana BaJa, Dig-Bala and Kaala BaJa (upto the Hora BaJa above). According to 
some, the difference between the two is the Yuddha BaJa. This must be added to the BaJa 
of the victor and subtracted from that of the loser. According to others, the difference 
between the two must be divided by the difference between their disc diameters (9 .4 
Vikala or seconds for Mars; 6.6 for Mercury; 190.4 for Jupiter; 16.6 for Venus and 
158.0 for Saturn) to obtain the Yuddha BaJa. This is added to the BaJa of the victor and 
subtracted from the Bala of the loser. 



IV. Cheshta Bala, 

Determination of the Cheshta BaJa of a planet needs elaborate understanding of 
astronomical principles involved in the apparent motion of planets from direct to 
retrograde, and from the slowest to the fastest. ln classical texts the Cheshta BaJa of 
planets has been described thus, depending upon their apparent motion. 
Apparent motion Strength 
(i) V akra 60 Shashtyamshas 

(ii) Anuvakra (or Ativakra) 30 Shashtyamshas 
(iii) Vikala 15 Shashtyamshas 
(iv) Madhya 30 Shashtyamshas 
(v) Manda 15 Shashtyamshas 
(vi) Mandatara 7.5 Shashtyamshas 
(vii) Sheeghra 45 Shashtyamshas 
(viii) Ati-sheeghra 30 Shashtyamshas 

Note: 
(a)The Snn has the same Ayana BaJa and Cheshta BaJa. 

(b)The Moon has the same Paksha Bala and Cheshta Bala. 



V. Naisargika BaJa 

Each planet has its inherent strength. Dividing 60 Shashtyamshas by seven, and 
multiplying the result successively by one, two, three, four, five, six and seven gives the 
Naisargika Bala respectively of Saturn, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, the Moon and the 
Sun. The Sun, thus, has the maximum Naisargika Bala (60 Shashtyamshas) and Saturn 
has the minimum (8.57 Shashtyamshas). 



VI. Drig-Bala. 

Each planet receives positive strength when aspected by a benefic and negative 
strength when aspected by a malefic. The sum total of all aspects on a planet is a measure 
of its Drig-Bala. 

Subtracting the longitude of the aspecting planet from the longitude of the aspected 
planet gives us the angular distance between the two planets. Mars, Jupiter and Saturn 
have their special aspects. The aspects of various planets at different arcs are tabulated 
below. 

Aspect of 

Arc Mars Jupiter Saturn Remaining 
planets 

0°-30° No aspect ~o aspect Xo aspect Xo aspect 
60° One quarter One quarter Full One quarter 
90° Full Three quarter Three quarter Three quarter 
12<r Half Full Half Half 
150° ~o aspect ~o aspect ~o aspect Xo aspect 
180° Full Full Full Fun 
210° Full Three quarter Three qu alter Three quarter 
240° Half Full Half Half 
2703 One quarter One quarter Full One quarter 
300~-3600:'\o aspect ~o aspect :'\o aspect Xo aspect 

In between the degrees mentioned here, proportionate alterations need to be done. 
The sum total of aspects of all the planets on a given planet is a measure of its Drig-

Bala. This is positive or negative depending upon whether the benefic aspects or the 
malefic aspects predominate. The total aspectual strength obtained in respect of each 
planet, when divided by four, yields positive or negative Drig-Bala in Shashtyamshas. 
This must be added to or subtracted from the total BaJa obtained by adding all the various 
components of Graha BaJa in order to obtain the final actual strength of a planet. 



The final strength obtained in Shashtyamshas, when divided by 60 yields the strength in 
Rupas. 



Bhava BaJa or the Strength of Houses 

This has three components: 
!.Strength of the lord ofthe house, as already discussed. 
2.Drig-BaJa or strength of aspect, which is positive or negative depending upon the sum 
total of benefic aspects exceeding the malefic ones or vice versa. The method of 
determining the Drig-Bala is the same as that in case of planets. In case of houses, their 
cusps are considered in place of the longitudes of aspected planets. 
3.Dig-Bala or directional strength. 
Dig-Bala 
Parashara says the following in this respect: 
"To determine the Bhava BaJa of Mithuna, Kanya, Tula, Kumbha and first half of Dhanu 
(i.e., Dwipada rashis), reduce from them the cusp of the seventh house. For Mesha, 
Vrisha, Simha, second half of Dhanu and first half of Makara (i.e., Chatushpada rashis), 
reduce from them the cusp of the fourth house. For Karka and Vrischika (i.e., Keeta 
rashis), reduce from these the cusp of the lagna. And for Meena and second half of 
Makara (Jalachara rashis), reduce the cusp of the tenth house from these. Convert the 
remainder into degrees and divide by three (to get the strength in Shashtyamshas). If the 
remainder (before converting into degrees) is more than six, reduce it from 12 signs, and 
then divide by three after converting into degrees (as above). To this add one-fourth of 
the aspect of different planets (as was done while determining the aspectual strength of 
planets) in case of benefic aspects and subtract it in case of malefic aspects. Add to it the 
strength of the lord of the house" (This gives the total Bhava BaJa or the strength of the 
house). 



... XIV ... 

The Dashas or Operational Periods of Planets 

~tnnq: ~ tJ:<:tl(;t ~<par51(1l~aa 1 
{l~(;tPI~S~: 'QW] >rktffi~{I~ICt II 

0 Partha! This very multitude of existences coming forth again 
and again merges helplessly at the onset of night (of Brahma), 
and (again) manifests at the onset of day. 

Gita VIII/19 

Application of the dasha system is an extremely brilliant feature of Vedic astrology. 
Whereas the horoscopic chart, with its planetary positions, provides a static picture of a 
native, the dashas add the dynamic aspect to it. The promise indicated in a horoscope 
attains fruition when an appropriate dasha operates. The dashas, thus, help in timing the 
events. 

There are numerous dasha systems advocated by sage Parashara. The two very widely 
used dashas are: 
I. The Vimshottari dasha, with a cycle of 120 years; and 
2. The Yogini dasha, with a cycle of 36 years. 

The Parashari dashas are generally nakshatra based. That is to say, they depend 
upon the birth nakshatra or the nakshatra of the Moon in the birth chart. Of the two 
dashas mentioned above, the Vimshottari is the more widely used. 



The Vimshottari Dasha 

The twenty-seven nakshatras are divided into three groups of nine nakshatras each. 
These are owned by the nine planets (see table II-2). Each planet is allotted a specific 
number of years over which it operates. The order of the dashas is also fixed. This may 
be seen in table XLV-I. 

TableXIY-1 
Vimshottari dasha periods 

S.No. Planet Nakshatras Dasll a period 
(years) 

1. Sun 3, 12, 21 6 
2. Moon 4, 13, 22 10 
3. Mars 5,14,23 7 
4. Rahu 6, 15,24 18 
5. Jupiter 7, 16,25 16 
6. Saturn 8,17,26 19 
7. :\Iercury 9, 18, 27 17 
8. Ketu 1, 10, 19 7 
9. Yen us 2,11,20 20 

Total No. ofyears 120 

Depending upon the Moon's nakshatra in the birth chart, the dasha of a particular 
planet operates at the time of birth. Subsequent planetary periods follow according to the 
order mentioned above. 



Balance of dasha at birth 

After having decided the planet whose dash a operates at the time of birth, it is 
important to find out how long that dasha would last. This depends upon the exact 
location of the Moon in a nakshatra. 

Each nakshatra has a span of 13°20'. For the Sun's nakshatra, this 13 "20' would 
mean 6 years; for the Moon's nakshatra, it will mean 10 years; and so on. If the Moon is 
in the beginning of its nakshatra, a larger portion of the years allotted to it are yet to pass. 
If it is at the end of the nakshatra, only a small fraction of the total allotted period will 
remain. The balance of a planet's dasha, thus, is proportionate to the extent of the 
Moon's nakshatra which is yet to elapse. 

The reader may refer to Tables XIV-2 and XIV-3 to work out the balance of 
Vimshottari dasha operating at the time of birth, depending upon the location of the 
Moon in different signs. More detailed tables are available in the ephemerides which may 
be referred to if necessary. 



Table XIY-2 
Balance ofYimshottati dasha 

depending upon the longitude of the :\loon. 

Moon in 

Long Mesha Vrislw Mithuna Karka 
of Simha Kanya Tula Vrischika 
Moon Dhanu Makara Kumbha Meena 
0 t _Ymd ymd ymd y llld 

0-00 Ket 7 0 0 Sun 4 6 0 :\Iar3 6 0 Jup 4 0 0 
1-00 6 521 4 018 21121 2 918 
2-00 51112 3 7 6 2 512 1 7 6 
3-00 5 5 3 3 124 111 3 0 4 24 
3-20 5 3 0 3 0 0 1 9 0 Sat 19 0 0 
4-00 41024 2 812 1 424 IS 0 18 
s-oo 4 415 2 3 0 010 lS 16 715 
6-00 310 6 1 918 0 4 6 15 212 
6-40 3 6 0 1 6 0 Rah18 0 0 14 3 0 
7-00 3 327 1 4 6 17 618 13 9 9 
8-00 2 91S 01024 16 212 12 4 6 
9-00 2 3 9 0 512 1410 6 1011 3 
10-00 1 9 0 Mon 10 0 0 13 6 0 9 6 0 
11-00 1 221 9 3 0 12 124 8 127 
12-00 0 812 8 6 0 10 918 6 7 24 
13-00 0 2 3 7 9 0 9 512 5 2 21 
13-20 Yen20 0 0 7 6 0 9 0 0 4 9 0 
14-00 19 0 0 7 0 0 8 1 6 3 918 
15-00 17 6 0 6 3 0 6 9 0 2 415 
16-00 16 0 0 5 6 0 5 424 01112 



1640 15 0 0 500 460 :\Ier 17 0 0 
17-00 14 6 0 4 9 0 4 018 16 6 27 
18-00 13 0 0 4 0 0 2 812 15 318 
19-00 11 6 0 3 3 0 1 4 6 14 0 9 
20-00 10 0 0 2 6 0 Jup 16 0 0 12 9 0 
21-00 8 6 0 1 9 0 14 918 11 5 21 
22-00 7 0 0 1 0 0 13 7 6 10 2 12 
23-00 5 6 0 0 3 0 12 4 24 811 3 

23-20 5 0 0 :\lar7 0 0 12 0 0 8 6 0 
24-00 4 0 0 6 724 11 Le 7 7 24 
25-00 2 6 0 6 115 10 0 0 6 4 15 
26-00 1 0 0 5 7 6 8 918 5 1 6 
26-40 Sun 6 0 0 5 3 0 8 0 0 4 3 0 
27-00 510 6 5 027 7 7 6 3 9 27 
28-00 5 4:24 4 618 6 424 2 618 
29-00 41112 4 0 9 5 212 1 3 9 
30-00 4 6 0 3 6 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 



Table XJ:Y-3 
Dashas proportionate to minutes of longitude 

of the Moon. Subtract these from the babnce of dashas, 
for increase in the Moon's longitude. 

Long. Ket Ven Sun Mon Mar Raft ]up Sat Mer 
md llld llld md md md md md md 

5I< Old 115 014 023 016 111 1 6 113 1 s 
10' 1 1 3 0 027 115 1 1 2 21 212 12d 217 
1: -:-· lli 415 111 2 8 11i 4 2 31S 4 s 3 25 
10' 2 3 d 0 124 3 0 2 3 512 424 521 5 3 
25' 219 i 15 2 s 323 219 623 d 0 7 4 611 
30' 3 4 9 0 221 415 3 4 8 3 7 6 s 1i 7 20 
3~ 3 20 1015 3 5 5 8 320 9 14 812 9 29 82S 
40' 4 6 12 0 318 6 0 4 6 1024 918 1112 10 6 



Suboeriods in Vimshottari Dasha, 

It will be noted that the planetary periods, as noted above, last for several years for 
each planet. It is difficult to use such broad time spans for timing day to day events. So as 
to narrow down the time when an event is likely to take place, the major planetary 
periods (also called as Mahadashas) mentioned above are further reduced into sub-
divisions called sub-periods or Antardashas. 

Under each Mahadasha (MD), the Antardasha (AD) of all the planets operate. The 
first AD in an MD belongs to the same planet and the remaining ones follow in order. 
The duration of the Antardashas of the various planets is in proportion to the duration of 
their major periods. The duration of an AD in a given MD can be easily calculated by the 
formula: 
'a' divided by 120 x 'b' 
Where 'a' is the dasha period of the MD lord and 'b' is the dasha period of the AD lord 
according to Table XIV-I, vide supra. 
For example, let us calculate the AD of Saturn in the MD of the Moon. According to the 
formula given above, we have 
I 0 (Dasha period of Moon) I 120 x 19 (Dasha period of Saturn) = 19/12 years, or I year 
and 7 months 
In this way, any AD can be calculated. 



Sub-sub-periods or Pratvantardasha (PO) 

Still finer divisions of time can be obtained by dividing a given Antardasha into 
sub-sub-periods (PD's) in the same proportions as the duration of their dasha periods 
mentioned above. The first PD in a given AD belongs to the AD lord itself while the 
remaining PD's follow in the usual order of the Vimshottari dasha. 
A PD is calculated in an AD by the formula: 
a /120 X b/120 XC 

where: 
'a' is the dasha duration ofthe MD lord; 
'b' is the dasha duration of the AD lord; and 
'c' is the dasha duration of the PD lord. 

The results obtained in years is converted into months by multiplying by 12; and 
into days by further multiplying by 30. 

Tables XIV-4 to Tables XI V-12 give the AD's and PD's (sub-periods and sub-sub-
periods) in the MD's (major periods) of different planets. 



T~blc XIV-4 
r\n tanb •Ita~ and Prntpnt:tnbsh:t~ 

in the ~l:t!t~da~h:t of SUN 

Sun Maliadasha : (, years 

SUN Sun-Moon 
Antardasha Puriod Total Anlardasha OY·61.1·0D 

y M D y M D Pratyanlar Period Tot ill 
$u!1 0 3 18 0 3 18 M D H M D H 
Moon 0 6 0 0 9 18 Moon 0 15 0.0 0 15 0.0 
l.lilrs 0 ~•  6 I I 2~ Mars 0 10 12.0 0 25 12.0 
Rahu 0 10 24 2 0 18 Rnhu 0 27 0.0 1 22 12.0 
Jupiter 0 9 18 2 10 6 Juprter 0 24 0.0 2 16 12.0 
Saturn 0 11 12 3 9 18 Saturn 0 28 12.0 3 15 0.0 
Mcre~;ry 0 10 6 4 7 2~ Mercury 0 25 12.0 4 10 12.0 
Ketu 0 .•.  6 5 0 0 Ketu 0 10 12.0 4 21 0.0 
Ve-niJS 0 0 6 0 0 Venus 1 0 0.0 5 21 0.0 

Sun 0 9 0.0 6 0 0.0 

Sun-Sun Sun-Mars 
Antardasha OY·3M·180 Antardasha OY·.SM·6D 
Pratyantar Period Tot.,r Pratyanlar Period Tot.,l 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 
Sun 0 5 9.6 0 5 9.6 Mars 0 7 8.4 0 7 8.4 
Moon 0 9 0.0 0 14 9.6 Rnhu 0 18 21.6 0 26 6.0 
Mars 0 6 7.2 0 20 16.8 Jup1tor 0 16 19.2 13 1.2 
A11hu 0 16 4.8 6 21.6 Saturn 0 19 22.8 2 3 0.0 
Jup1ter 0 14 9.6 1 21 7.2 Mercury 0 17 20.4 2 20 20.4 
Saturn 0 17 2.4 2 8 9.6 Ketu 0 7 8.4 2 28 4.8 
Mercury 0 15 7.2 2 23 16.8 Venus 0 21 0.0 3 19 4.8 
Kotu 0 6 7.2 3 0 0.0 Sun 0 6 7.2 3 25 12.0 
Venus 0 18 00 3 18 0.0 Moon 0 10 12.0 4 6 0.0 



Sun-Rahu Sun-Mercury 
Antardasha OY-10M-240 Antardasha OY -t OM-60 
Pratyantar Penod Total Pratyantar Penod Total 

M 0 H M 0 H M 0 H M 0 H 
Rahu 18 14.4 1 18 14.4 Mercury 1 13 8.4 1 13 8.4 
Jup1ter 13 4.8 3 1 19.2 Kolu 0 17 20.4 2 4.8 
Sa tum 1 21 7.2 4 23 2.4 Venus 1 21 0.0 3 22 4.8 
Mercury 1 15 21.6 6 9 0.0 Sun 0 15 7.2 4 7 12.0 
Kotu 0 16 21.6 6 27 21.6 Moon 0 25 t2.0 5 3 0.0 
Venus 1 24 0.0 6 2t 21.6 MMs 0 t7 20.4 5 20 20.4 
Sun 0 16 4.8 9 6 2.4 Rahu 15 21.6 7 6 t8.0 
Moon 0 27 0.0 10 5 2.4 Jup1:er 10 19.2 8 17 13.2 
MMs 0 16 21.6 10 24 0.0 Saturn 16 10.6 10 6 0.0 

Sun-Jupiter Sun-Ketu 
Antardasha OY-9M-180 Antardasha OY-4M·6D 
Pratyantar Period Totru Pratyantar Period Total 

M 0 H M 0 H M 0 H M 0 H 
Jup1ter 6 96 t 6 9.6 Kotu 0 7 6.4 0 7 8.4 
Saturn 1 15 14.4 2 24 0.0 Venus 0 21 0.0 0 26 8.4 
Mmcury 1 10 19.2 4 4 19.2 Sun 0 6 7.2 4 15.6 
Kotu 0 16 19.2 4 21 14.4 Moon 0 10 12.0 1 15 3.6 
Venus 1 18 0.0 6 9 14.4 Mms 0 7 8_4 1 22 t2.0 
Sun 0 14 9.6 6 24 0.0 R"hu 0 16 21.6 2 1t 9.6 
Moon 0 24 0.0 7 16 0.0 Jupi:or 0 t6 t9.2 2 26 4.8 
Mars 0 16 19.2 a 4 19.2 Saturn 0 t9 22.6 3 16 3.6 
Rahu 13 4.8 9 18 0.0 Mercury 0 17 20.4 4 6 0.0 

Sun-Saturn Sun-Venus 
Antarduha OY-11 M-120 Antardasha 1Y-OM-OO 
Pratyantar Period Totlll Pratyantar Period Total 

M D H M 0 H M 0 H M 0 H 
Saturn 1 24 3.6 1 24 3.6 Venus 2 0 0.0 2 0 0.0 
Mercury 1 18 10.8 3 12 14.4 Sun 0 18 0.0 2 18 0.0 
Kctu 0 19 22.6 4 2 13.2 Moon 0 0.0 3 16 0.0 
Venus 1 27 0.0 5 29 13.2 Mare 0 21 0.0 4 9 0.0 
Sun 0 17 2.4 6 16 15.6 Rahu 24 0.0 6 3 0.0 
Moon o ::a 12.0 7 15 3.6 Jupi:er 18 0.0 7 21 0.0 
Mars 0 19 22.8 8 5 2.4 Saturn 27 0.0 9 18 0.0 
Rahu 21 7.2 9 26 9.6 Morcury 1 21 0.0 11 9 0.0 
Jup1ler 15 14.4 11 12 0.0 Ketu 0 21 0.0 12 0 0.0 



Table Xl\'·5 
Antardashas and Praty:111t:uda.<h:1~ 

in the ~lah:ld:'l<ha of M 0 0 N 

Moon ~ bluda~ha : 10 years 

MOON Moon-Mars 
Anlardasha Period Total Anlardasha OY·7M.OO 

y M D y M D Pralyantar Poriod Total 

Moon 010 0 0 10 0 M D H M D H 

Mars 0 7 0 1 5 0 Mars 0 12 6.0 0 12 6.0 

Rahu 6 0 2 11 0 Rahu 1 12.0 13 18.0 

Jupiter A 0 4 3 0 Jupiter 0 28 0.0 2 11 18.0 

Saturn 7 0 5 10 0 Saturn 3 6.0 3 15 0.0 

Mercury 1 5 0 7 Mercury 0 29 18.0 
3 0 4 14 18.0 

Ketu Ketu 0 12 6.0 4 27 0.0 
0 7 0 710 0 Venus 1 s 0.0 6 2 0.0 

Venus 1 8 0 9 6 0 Sun 0 10 12.0 6 12 12.0 
s.n 0 6 0 10 0 0 Moon 0 17 12.0 7 0 0.0 

Moon-Moon Moon-Rahu 
Antardasha OY·tOM·OD Anlardasha tY·6M.()D 
Pratyantar Period Total Pralyantar Period Total 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 

Moon 0 25 0.0 0 25 0.0 Rahu 2 21 0.0 2 21 0.0 
Mare 0 17 12.0 12 12.0 Jupiter 2 12 0.0 5 3 0.0 
Rahu 1 15 0.0 2 27 12.0 Saturn 2 25 12.0 7 28 12.0 
Jupiter 1 10 0,0 4 7 12.0 Mercury 2 16 12.0 10 15 0.0 
Saturn 1 17 12.0 5 25 0.0 Kotu 12.0 11 16 12.0 
Mercury 1 12 12.0 7 7 12.0 Venus 3 0 0.0 14 16 12.0 
Kotu 0 17 12.0 7 25 0.0 Sun 0 2:1 0.0 15 13 12.0 
Venus 1 20 0.0 9 15 0.0 Moon 15 0.0 16 28 12.0 
Sun 0 15 0.0 10 0 0.0 Mars t 12.0 18 0 0.0 



Moon-Jupiter Moon-Ketu 
Anlardasha 1Y-4M-OCI Anlardasha OY·7M-00 
Pralyantar Period Total Pralyanlar Poriod Total 

M 0 H M D H M D H M D H 
Jupitor 2 4 0.0 2 4 0.0 Ketu 0 12 6.0 0 12 6.0 
Saturn 2 16 0.0 4 20 0.0 Venus 5 0.0 17 6.0 
Mercury 2 8 0.0 6 28 0.0 Sun 0 10 12.0 27 18.0 
Ketu 0 28 0.0 7 26 0.0 Moon 0 17 12.0 2 15 6.0 
Venus 2 20 0.0 10 16 0.0 Mars 0 12 6.0 2 27 12.0 
Sun 0 24 0.0 11 10 0.0 Rahu 1 12.0 3 29 0.0 
Moon 10 0.0 12 20 0.0 Jupitor 0 28 0.0 4 27 0.0 
Mars 0 28 0.0 13 18 0.0 Saturn 3 6.0 6 0 6.0 
Rahu 2 12 0.0 16 0 0.0 Morcury 0 29 18.0 7 0 0.0 

Moon-Saturn Moon-Venus 
Antardasha 1Y-7M-OCI Anlardasha IY·8M-OO 
Pralyantar Period Tolal Pratyanlar Period Tolal 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 
Saturn 3 0 6.0 3 0 6.0 Venus 3 10 0.0 3 10 0.0 
Mercury 2 20 18.0 5 21 0.0 Sun 0 0.0 4 10 0.0 
Ketu 1 3 6.0 6 24 6.0 Moon 20 0.0 6 0 0.0 
Venus 3 s 0.0 9 29 6.0 Mars 1 5 0.0 7 5 0.0 
Sun 0 28 12.0 10 27 18.0 Rahu 3 0 0.0 10 5 0.0 
Moon 17 12.0 12 15 6.0 Jupiter 2 20 0.0 12 25 00 
Mars 3 6.0 13 18 12.0 Sa tum 3 5 0.0 16 0 0.0 
Rahu 2 25 12.0 16 14 0.0 Mercury 2 25 0.0 18 25 0.0 
Jupiter 2 16 0.0 19 0 0.0 Kotu 5 0.0 20 0 0.0 

Moon-Mercuq Moon-sun 
Antardasha 1Y·5M-0C> Anlardasha OY-6M-OO 
Pralyantar Period Total Pratyanlar Period Total 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 
Mercury 2 12 6.0 2 12 6.0 Sun 0 9 0.0 0 9 0.0 
Ketu 0 29 18.0 3 12 0.0 (·loon 0 15 0.0 0 24 0.0 
Venus 2 25 0.0 6 7 0.0 Mars 0 10 12.0 4 12.0 
Sun 0 25 12.0 7 2 12.0 Rahu 0 27 0.0 2 12.0 
Moon 1 12 12.0 8 15 0.0 Jupiter 0 24 0.0 2 25 12.0 
Mars 0 29 18.0 9 14 18.0 Saturn 0 28 12.0 3 24 0.0 
Rahu 2 16 12.0 12 1 6.0 Mercury 0 25 12.0 4 19 12.0 
Jupitor 2 8 0.0 14 9 6.0 Kotu 0 10 12.0 5 0 0.0 
Saturn 2 20 18.0 17 0 0.0 Venus 0 0.0 6 0 0.0 



Table XIV-6 
t\nt:trdash:IS and Pr:lt\':tnt:tnhlsh~s 

in tl•e Mahadasha 'of :'llr\RS 

Mars Maliadasha : 7 years 

MARS Mars·Rahu 
Anlardasha Period Total Antardasha tY-<IM·t60 

y M 0 y M 0 Pralyantar Period Total 

Mars 0 4 27 0 M 
4 27 D H M D H 

Rahu 1 0 18 1 5 15 Rahu 26 16.8 26 16.8 
Jupiter 0 11 6 2 4 21 Jupiter 20 9.6 3 17 2.4 
Saturn I 1 9 3 6 0 Sal urn 29 20.4 5 16 22.8 

Mercury 0 Morcury 23 
11 27 4 13.2 7 10 12.0 

5 27 
0 4 Kotu 0 22 1.2 8 2 13.2 

Ketu 4 27 10 24 Venus 
1 6 2 3 0.0 10 5 13.2 

Venus 2 0  0 24 Sun 0 18 21.6 10 24 10.6 
Sun 0 4 6 6 5 0 Moon 1 1 12.0 11 25 22.6 
Moon 0 7 0 7 0 0 Mara 0 22 12 12 18 0.0 

Mars-Mars Mars-Jupiter 
Antardasha OY·4M·27D Antardasha OY·11M·6D 
Pratyanlar Period Total Pratyanlar Period Tolal 

M 0 H M D H M D H 1.1 0 H 

Mars 0 a 13.8 0 813.8 Jupiter 1 14 19.2 1 14 19.2 
Rahu 0 22 12 0 15.0 Saturn 1 23 4.8 3 8 0.0 
Jupitor 0 19 14.4 20 SA Mercury 1 17 14A 4 25 14.4 
Saturn 0 23 6.6 2 13 12.0 Ketu 0 19 14.4 5 15 4.8 
Morcury 0 20 19.8 3 4 7.8 Venus 1 26 0.0 7 11 4.8 
Kotu 0 8 13.8 3 12 21.6 Sun 0 16 19.2 7 28 0.0 
Venus 0 24 12.0 4 7 9.6 Moon 0 28 0.0 8 26 0.0 
Sun 0 7 8.4 4 14 18.0 Mars 0 19 14.4 9 15 14.4 
Moon 0 12 6.0 4 27 0.0 Rahu 1 20 9.6 11 6 0.0 



Mars-Saturn Mars-Venus 
Anlardasha 1Y-1M-9D Anlardasha 1Y · 2M.OD 
Pratyentar Period Total Pratyanlar Period Total 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 
Saturn 2 3 4.2 2 3 42 Venus 2 10 0.0 2 10 0.0 
Mercury 1 26 12.6 3 29 16.8 Sun 0 21 0.0 3 1 0.0 
Ketu 0 23 6.6 4 22 23.4 Moon 1 5 0.0 4 6 0.0 
Venus 2 6 12.0 6 29 11.4 Mars 0 24 12.0 5 0 12.0 
Sun 0 19 22.8 7 19 10.2 Rahu 2 3 0.0 7 3 12.0 
Moon 3 6.0 8 22 16 2 Jupiter 26 0.0 8 29 12.0 
Mars 0 23 6.6 9 15 22.8 Saturn 2 6 12.0 11 6 0.0 
Rahu 29 20.4 11 15 19.2 Mercury 1 29 12.0 13 5 12.0 
Jupitor 23 4.8 13 9 0.0 Ketu 0 24 12.0 14 0 0.0 

Mars-Mercury Mars-Sun 
Antordosh01 OY·11M-270 Anlardasha OY-4M-6D 
Pralyantar Period Total Pratyantor Period Total 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 
Mercury 20 13.8 20 13.8 Sun 0 6 7.2 0 6 7.2 
Ketu 0 20 19.8 2 11 9.6 Moon 0 10 12.0 0 16 19.2 
Venus 1 29 12.0 4 10 21.6 Mars 0 7 8.4 0 24 3.6 
Sun 0 17 20.4 4 28 18.0 Rahu 0 18 21.6 1 13 12 
Moon 0 29 18.0 5 28 12.0 Jupiter 0 16 19.2 1 29 20.4 
Mars 0 20 19.8 6 19 7.8 Saturn 0 19 22.8 2 19 19.2 
Rahu I 23 13.2 8 12 21.0 Mercury 0 17 20.4 3 7 15.6 
Jupiter 1 17 14.4 10 0 11.4 Ketu 0 7 8.4 3 15 0.0 
Saturn 26 12.6 11 27 0.0 Venus 0 21 0.0 4 6 0.0 

Mars-Ketu Mars-Moon 
Anlardasha OY·4M·27D Anlardasha OY·7M.OD 
Protyantor Period Total Pralyantar Period Tetal 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 
Ketu 0 8 13.8 0 8 13.8 Moon 0 17 12.0 0 17 12.0 
Venus 0 24 12.0 3 1.8 Mars 0 12 6.0 0 29 18.0 
Sun 0 7 8.4 10 10.2 Rahu 1 12.0 2 6.0 
Moon 0 12 6.0 22 16.2 Juprler 0 28 0.0 2 29 6.0 
Mars 0 8 13.8 2 6.0 Saturn 3 6.0 4 2 12.0 
Rahu 0 22 12 2 23 7.2 Mercury 0 29 18.0 5 2 6.0 
Jupiter 0 19 14.4 3 12 21.6 Ketu 0 12 6.0 5 14 12.0 
Saturn 0 23 6.6 4 6 4.2 Venus 1 5 0.0 6 19 12.0 
Mercury 0 20 19.8 4 27 0.0 Sun 0 10 12.0 7 0 0.0 



Table XIV-7 
Anlardashas and Pratpntarda<h~< 

in I he Mahadasha of lv\ II U 

RAHU Rahu.Jupiter 
Anlardasha Period Tota) Anlardasha 2Y·4M·24D 

y M D y M 0 Pralyanlar Period Total 

Rahu 2 8 12 2 8 12 M 0 K M 0 H 

Jupiter 2 4 24 5 1 6 Jupiter 3 25 4.8 3 25 4.8 

Saturn 2 10 6 7 11 12 Saturn 4 16 192 8 12 0.0 

Mercury 2 6 18 10 6 0 Mercury 4 2 9.6 12 14 9.6 

Ketu 1 0 18 11 6 18 Ketu 1 20 9.6 14 4 19.2 

Venus 3 0 0 14 618 Venus 4 24 0.0 18 28 19.2 
Sun 1 13 4.8 2o 12 0.0 

9.n 0 10 24 15 5 12 Moon 2 12 0.0 22 24 0.0 
Moon 1 6 0 16 11 12 Mars 1 20 9.6 24 14 9.6 
Mars 1 0 18 18 0 0 Rahu 4 9 14.4 28 24 0.0 

Rahu-Rahu Rahu-Saturn 
Anlardasha 2V.SM·120 Antardasha 2Y-10M-6D 

Pralyanlar Period Total Prolynntnr Period Total 
M D H M D H M D H M 0 H 

Rahu 4 25 19.2 4 ~ 19.2 Saturn 5 12 10.8 5 12 10.8 
Jupiter 4 9 14.4 9 5 96 Mercury 4 25 &4 10 7 19.2 
Saturn 5 3 21.6 14 9 7.2 Ketu 1 29 20.4 12 7 15.6 
Mercury 4 17 16.8 18 ~7 0.0 Venus 5 21 0.0 17 28 15.6 
Ko1~ 1 26 16.8 20 ~ 16.8 Sun 1 21 7.2 19 19 22.8 
Venus 5 12 0.0 26 5 16.8 Moon 2 25 12.0 22 15 10.8 
Sun 18 14.4 27 ~ 7.2 Mars 1 29 20.4 24 15 7.2 
Moon 2 21 0.0 30 15 7.2 Rahu 5 3 21.6 29 19 4.8 
Mars 1 26 16.8 32 12 0.0 Jupiter 4 16 19.2 34 6 0.0 



Rahu-Mercury Rahu-Sun 
Antardasha 2Y·6M·180 Anlardasha OY·10M·240 
Pralyanlar Porlod Total Pralyanlar Poriod Total 

M 0 H M D H M 0 H M 0 H 
Mercury 4 10 12 4 10 1.2 Sun 0 16 4.8 0 16 4.8 
Kotu 23 13.2 6 3 14.4 Moon 0 27 0.0 13 4.8 
Von us 5 3 0.0 11 6 14.4 Mars 0 18 21.6 2 2 2.4 
Sun 15 21.6 12 22 12.0 Rahu 18 14.4 3 20 16.8 
Moon 2 16 12.0 15 9 0.0 Jupitor 13 4.8 5 3 21.6 
Mars 23 13.2 17 2 13.2 Saturn 21 72 6 25 4.8 
Rahu 4 17 168 21 20 6.0 Mercury 15 21.6 8 11 2.4 
Jupitor 4 2 9.6 25 22 15.6 Ketu 0 18 21.6 9 0 0.0 
Saturn 4 25 8.4 30 18 0.0 Vonu3 24 0.0 10 24 0.0 

Rahu-Ketu Rahu-Moon 
Antardasha 1Y·OM·18D Anlardasha 1Y·6M·OD 
Pralyanlar Poriod Total Pralyanlar Poriod Tolal 

M D H M D H M 0 H M 0 H 
Ketu 0 22 12 0 22 12 Moon 15 0.0 15 0.0 
Venus 2 3 0.0 2 25 12 Mars 1 1 12.0 2 16 12.0 
Sun 0 18 21.6 3 13 22.8 Rahu 2 21 0.0 5 7 12.0 
Moon 1 12,0 4 15 10.8 Jupiter 2 12 0.0 7 19 12.0 
Mars 0 22 12 5 7 12.0 Saturn 2 25 12.0 10 15 0.0 
Rahu 1 26 16.8 7 4 4.8 Mercury 2 16 12.0 13 12.0 
Jupiter 20 9,6 8 24 14.4 Ketu 12.0 14 3 0.0 
Saturn 29 20.4 10 24 10.8 Vonus 3 0 0.0 17 3 0.0 
Morcury 23 132 12 18 0.0 Sun 0 27 0.0 18 0 0.0 

RahuAienus Rahu-Mars 
Antardasha 3Y·OM·OD An1urduha 1Y·OM·180 
Pralyanlar Poriod Total Pratyanlar Poriod Total 

M 0 H M D H M 0 H M 0 H 
Vonus 6 0 0.0 6 0 0.0 Mars 0 22 12 0 22 12 
Sun 1 24 0.0 7 24 0.0 Rahu 26 16.8 2 18 18.0 
Moon 3 0 0.0 10 24 0.0 Jupitor 20 9.6 4 9 3.6 
Mars 2 3 0,0 12 27 0.0 Saturn 29 20.4 6 9 0.0 
Rahu 5 12 0.0 18 9 0.0 Mercury 23 13.2 8 2 13.2 
Jupitor 4 24 0.0 23 3 0.0 Kotu 0 22 12 8 24 14.4 
Saturn 5 21 0.0 28 24 0.0 Venus 2 3 0.0 10 27 14.4 
Morcury 5 3 0.0 33 27 0.0 Sun 0 18 21.6 11 16 12.0 
Kotu 2 3 0.0 36 0 0.0 Moon 12.0 12 18 0.0 



T:~ble XIV-8 
Antardashas :uull'rat\~tnt:trdasb~s 

in the Mahadasha of JUPITER 

Jupiter Mahadasha : 16 yc>tn; 

JUPITER Jupiter-Saturn 
Antardasha Poriod Tetal Anlardasha 2Y·6M·t2D 

y M D y M 0 Pratyanlar Period Total 
Jupiter 2 1 18 2 1 18 M 0 H M 0 H 

Satum 2 6 12 4 8 0 Saturn 4 24 9.6 4 24 9.6 
Mercury 2 3 6 6 11 6 Mercury 4 9 4.8 9 3 14.4 

Ketu 0 11 6 7 10 12 Kotu 23 4.8 10 26 19.2 

Venus 2 8 0 10 6 12 Venus 5 2 0.0 15 28 19.2 
Sun 1 15 14.4 17 14 9.6 

Sun 0 9 18 11 4 0 
Moon 2 16 0.0 20 0 9.6 

Moon 4 0 12 8 0 Mars 23 4.8 21 23 144 
Mars 0 11 6 13 7 6 Rahu 4 16 19,2 26 10 9.6 
Rahu 2 4 24 15 0 0 Jupitor 4 1 14.4 30 12 0.0 

Jupiter-Jupiter Jupiter-Mercury 
Anlardasha 2Y·1M·180 Anlardasha 2Y·3M~D 

Pralyantar Period Tetal Protyontar Poriod Tetal 
M D H M D H M D H M D H 

Jupiter 3 12 9.6 3 12 9.6 Mercury 3 25 14.4 3 25 14.4 
Saturn 4 14.4 7 14 0.0 Ketu 17 14.4 5 13 4.8 
Mercury 3 18 19.2 11 2 192 Vonus 4 16 0.0 9 29 4.8 
Ketu 1 14 19.2 12 17 14.4 Sun 1 10 19.2 11 10 0.0 
Venus 4 8 0.0 16 25 14.4 Moon 2 8 0.0 13 18 0.0 
Sun 1 8 9.6 18 4 0.0 Mars 17 14.4 15 5 14,4 
Moon 2 4 0.0 20 8 0.0 Rahu 4 2 9.8 19 8 0.0 
Mars 14 19.2 21 22 192 Jupiter 3 18 19.2 22 26 19.2 
Rahu 3 25 4.8 25 18 0.0 Saturn 4 9 4.8 27 6 0.0 



Jupiter-Ketu Jupiter-Moon 
Antardasha OY·11 M·60 Antardasha 1Y ·4M-<lD 
Pralyantar Period Total Pratyanlar Period Total 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 
Kotu 0 19 14.4 0 19 14.4 Moon 10 0.0 10 0.0 
Venus 1 26 0.0 2 15 14.4 Mars 0 28 0.0 2 8 0.0 
Sun 0 16 19.2 3 2 9.8 Rahu 2 12 0.0 4 20 0.0 
Moon 0 28 0.0 4 0 9.6 Jupiter 2 4 0.0 6 24 0.0 
Mars 0 19 14.4 4 20 0.0 Saturn 2 16 0.0 9 10 0.0 
Rahu 20 9.6 6 10 9.6 Morcury 2 8 0.0 11 18 0.0 
Jupitor 14 19.2 7 25 4.8 Kotu 0 28 0.0 12 16 0.0 
Saturn 23 4.8 9 18 9.6 Venus 2 20 0.0 15 6 0.0 
Mercury 17 14.4 11 6 0.0 Sun 0 24 0.0 16 0 0.0 

Jupiter-Venus Jupiter-Mars 
Anlardasha 2Y·8M-<lD Antardasha OY·11M·6D 
Pralyantar Period Total Pratyanlar Period Total 

M D H M D H M D H M 0 H 

Von us 5 10 0.0 5 10 0.0 Mars 0 19 14.4 0 19 14.4 
Sun 18 0.0 6 28 0.0 Rahu 20 9.6 2 10 0.0 
Moon 2 20 0.0 9 18 0.0 Jupitor 14 19.2 3 24 19.2 
Mars 26 0.0 11 14 0.0 Saturn 23 4.8 5 18 0.0 
Rahu 4 24 0.0 16 8 0.0 Morcury 1 17 14.4 7 5 14.4 
Jupiter 4 8 0.0 20 16 0.0 Kotu 0 19 14.4 7 25 4.8 
Saturn 5 2 0.0 25 18 0.0 Venus 26 0.0 9 21 4.8 
Mercury 4 16 0.0 30 4 0.0 Sun 0 16 192 10 8 0.0 
Kotu 1 26 0.0 32 0 0.0 Moon 0 28 0.0 11 6 0.0 

Jupiter-Sun Jupiter-Rahu 
An1ordash3 OY·9M·18D Anlardasha 2Y·4M·240 
Pralyantar Period Total Pratyanlar Period Total 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 
Sun 0 14 9.6 0 14 9.6 Rahu 4 9 14.4 4 9 14.4 
Moon 0 24 0.0 8 9.6 Jupitor 3 25 4.8 8 4 19.2 
Mars 0 16 19.2 25 4.8 Saturn 4 16 19.2 12 21 14.4 
Rahu 13 4.8 3 8 9.6 Mercury 4 2 9.6 16 24 0.0 
Jupitor 8 9.6 4 16 19.2 Kotu 1 20 9.6 18 14 9.6 
Saturn 15 14.4 6 2 9.6 Vonus 4 24 0.0 23 8 9.6 
Mercury 10 192 7 13 4.8 Sun 1 13 4.8 24 21 14.4 
Kotu 0 16 19.2 8 0 0.0 Moon 2 12 0.0 27 3 14.4 
Von us 18 0.0 9 18 0.0 Mara 20 9.6 28 24 0.0 



Table XIV-9 
Antardashas and l'rnl,\':tntanl:tshas 

in the M ahadasha of SATURN 

Saturn ~ l:tha,bsh:t : 19 years 

SATURN Saturn-Mercury 
Anlardasha Period Total Anlardasha 2Y·8M-90 

y M D y M D Prnlyantar Period Total 

Saturn 3 M D H 
0 3 3 0 3 M D H 

Mercury 2 8 9 5 8 12 Mercury 4 17 6.6 4 17 6.6 
Ketu 1 1 9 6 9 21 Ketu 1 26 12.6 6 13 19.2 
Venus 3 2 0 9 11 21 Venus 5 11 12.0 11 25 7.2 

Sun 0 11 12 10 11 3 Sun 18 10.8 13 13 18.0 
- - - Moon 2 20 18.0 16 4 12.0 

Moon 7 Q 12 s ~ Mars 1 26 12.6 18 1 0.6 
Mars 1 9 13 7 12 Rahu 4 25 9.4 22 26 9.0 
Rahu 2 10 6 16 5 18 Jup~er 4 9 4.8 27 5 13.9 
Jupiter 2 6 12 19 0 0 Saturn 5 3 10.2 32 9 0.0 

Saturn-SiltUrn Salurn-Ketu 
Anlardasha 3Y·OM·30 Antardasha IY·1M·9D 
Pralyanlar Period Total Pralyantar Period Total 

M D H M D H M D H M 0 H 

Saturn 5 21 11.4 5 21 11.4 Ketu 0 23 6.6 0 23 6.6 
Mercury 5 3 10.2 10 24 21.6 Venus 2 6 12.0 2 29 18.6 
Ketu 2 3 4.2 12 28 1.8 Sun 0 19 22.3 3 19 17.4 
Venus 6 0 12.0 18 28 13.8 Moon 1 3 6.0 4 22 23.4 
Sun 1 24 3.6 20 22 17.4 Mars 0 23 6.6 5 16 6.0 
Moon 3 0 6.0 23 22 23.4 Rahu 29 20.4 7 16 2.4 
Mars 2 3 4.2 25 26 3.6 Jup~er 23 4.8 9 9 7.2 
Rahu 5 12 10.8 31 8 14.4 Saturn 2 3 4.2 11 12 11.4 
Jup~or 4 24 9.6 36 3 0.0 Mercury 26 12.6 13 9 0.0 



Saturn-Venus Saturn-Mars 
Anlardasha 3Y·2M·OO Antardasha lY•IM·9D 
Pralyanlar Period Total Pratyanlar Poriod To:al 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 

Venus 6 10 0.0 6 10 0.0 Mars 0 23 6.6 0 23 6.6 
Sun 1 27 0.0 8 7 0.0 Rahu 29 20.4 2 23 3.0 
Moon 3 5 0.0 11 12 0.0 Jupiter 1 23 4.8 4 16 7.8 
Mars 2 6 12.0 13 18 12.0 Saturn 2 3 4.2 6 19 12.0 
Rahu 5 21 0.0 19 9 12.0 Morcury 1 26 12.6 8 16 0.6 
Jupitor s 2 0.0 24 11 12.0 Ketu 0 23 6.6 9 9 7.2 
Saturn 6 0 12.0 30 12 0.0 Venus 2 6 12.0 11 15 19.2 
Mercury 5 11 12.0 35 23 12.0 Sun 0 19 22.8 12 5 18.0 
Kotu 2 6 12.0 38 0 0.0 Moon 3 6.0 13 9 0.0 

Saturn-Sun Saturn-Rohu 
Anlardasha OY·I\1.4·120 Antardasha 2Y·10M-60 
Pralyanlar Period Total Pr~lynnlnr Period To:al 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 

Sun 0 17 2.4 0 17 2.4 Rahu 5 3 21.6 5 3 21.e 
Moon 0 28 12.0 IS 14.4 Jupitor 4 16 19.2 9 20 16.8 
Mars 0 19 22.8 2 5 13.2 Saturn 5 12 10.8 15 3 3.6 
Rahu 21 7.2 3 26 20.4 Mercury 4 25 8.4 19 28 12.0 
Jupiter 15 14.4 5 12 10.8 Ketu 1 29 20.4 21 28 8.4 
Saturn 24 36 7 6 14.4 Venus 6 21 0.0 27 19 84 
Mercury 1 18 10.8 8 25 1.2 Sun 21 7.2 29 10 15.6 
Ketu 0 19 22.8 9 15 0.0 Moon 2 25 12.0 32 6 3.8 
Vonus 27 0.0 11 12 0.0 l.lar~to 29 20.4 34 6 0.0 

Saturn-Moon Saturn-Jupiter 
Anlardasha IY·7M·OO An1~rd~5ha 2Y·6M·120 
Pratyanlar Period Total Pralyanlar Poriod To:a1 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 

Moon 17 12.0 17 12.0 Jupiter 4 14.4 4 14.4 
Mara 3 6.0 2 20 18.0 Saturn 4 24 9.6 8 26 0.0 
Rahu 2 25 12.0 5 16 6.0 Morcury 4 9 4.8 13 5 4.8 
Jupitor 2 16 0.0 8 2 6.0 Kotu 23 4.8 14 28 9.6 
Saturn 3 0 6.0 11 2 12.0 Vonus 5 2 0.0 20 0 9.6 
Morcury 2 20 18.0 13 23 6.0 Sun 1 15 14.4 21 16 0.0 
Kotu 3 6.0 14 26 12.0 Moon 2 16 0.0 24 2 0.0 
Vonus 3 5 0.0 18 1 12.0 Mara 23 4.8 25 25 4.8 
Sun 0 28 12.0 19 0 0.0 Rahu 4 16 19.2 30 12 0.0 



Table XlV-10 
Antardashas ;nHI Pr:U\'mlt:mlasha~ 
in the ;\lah:Hbsha or';\ I ERCURY 

~~ m'Ur)' Mahadasha : I i years 

MERCURY Mercury-Ketu 
Antarda:~ha Period Total Anlardasha OY·I tl\1·270 

y M D y M 0 Pralyanlar Period Total 

Mercury 2 4 27 2 4Zl M D H M D H 

Kelu 0 11 27 3 4a:l Kotu 0 20 19.8 0 20 19.8 
Venus 2 10 0 6 2a:l Venus 29 12.0 2 20 7.8 

an 0 10 6 7 1 0 Sun 0 17 20.4 3 8 42 

Moon 1 5 0 8 6 0 Moon 0 29 18.0 4 7 22.2 

o H 27 Mars 0 20 19.8 4 28 18.0 
Mars 9 5Zl Rahu 23 13.2 6 22 7.2 
Rahu 2 6 18 12 0 15 Jupiter 17 14.4 8 9 21.6 
Jupiter 2 3 6 14 321 Saturn 26 12.6 10 6 10.2 
Satum 2 8 9 17 0 0 Morcury 20 13.8 11 27 0.0 

Mercury-Mercury Mercury A/en us 
Antardosha 2Y-4M·27D Antardasho 2Y·10M.OO 
Pratyantar Poriod Total Pratyantar Period Total 

M 0 H M 0 H M D H M D H 

Morcury 4 2 19.8 4 2 119.8 Von us 5 20 0.0 5 20 0.0 
Ketu 1 20 13.8 s :23 9.6 Sun 21 0.0 7 I 1 0.0 
Von us 4 24 12.0 10 "17 21.6 Moon 2 25 0.0 10 6 0.0 
Sun 1 13 8.4 12 6.0 Mars 29 12.0 12 s 12.0 
Moon 2 12 6.0 14 13 l2.0 Rahu 5 3 0.0 17 8 12.0 
Mars 20 13.8 16 4 1.8 Jupiter 4 16 0.0 21 24 12.0 
Rahu 4 10 12 20 14 3.0 Saturn 5 11 12.0 27 6 0.0 
Jupiter 3 2S 14.4 24 9 H.4 Morcury 4 24 12.0 32 0 12.0 
Saturn 4 17 6.6 28 -::;.7 0.0 Ketu 1 29 12.0 34 0 0.0 



Mercury-Sun Mercury-Rahu 
Anlardasha OY·10M·60 Anlardasha 2Y·6M·180 
Pralyanlar Period Total Pratyanlar Period Tolal 

M H M D H M D H M D H 

Sun 0 15 72 0 15 7.2 Rahu 4 17 16.8 4 17 16.8 
Moon 0 25 12.0 10 19.2 Jupiter 4 2 9.6 8 20 2.4 
Mars 0 17 20.4 28 15.6 Saturn 4 25 8.4 13 15 10.8 
Rahu 15 21.6 3 14 13.2 Morcury 4 10 1.2 17 25 12.0 
Jupiter 10 19.2 4 25 8.4 Ketu 1 23 13.2 19 19 1.2 
Saturn 18 t0.8 6 13 19.2 Venus 5 3 0.0 24 22 1.2 
Mercury 1 13 8.4 7 27 3.6 Sun 15 21.6 26 7 228 
Ketu 0 17 20.4 8 15 0.0 Moon 2 16 12.0 28 24 10.8 
Venus 21 0.0 10 6 0.0 Mars 23 13.2 30 18 0.0 

Mercury-Moon Mercury-Jupiter 
Anlardasha 1Y·5M·OO Anlardasha 2Y·3M-60 
Pralyantar Poriod Tolal Pralyanlar Period Tolal 

M H M D H M D H M D H 
Moon 1 12 12.0 12 12.0 Jupiter 3 18 19.2 3 18 192 
Mars 0 29 18.0 2 12 6.0 Saturn 4 9 4.8 7 28 0.0 
Rahu 2 16 12.0 4 28 18.0 Morcury 3 25 14.4 11 23 14.4 
Jupiter 2 8 0.0 7 6 18.0 Ketu 1 17 14.4 13 11 4.8 
Saturn 2 20 18.0 9 27 12.0 Vonus 4 16 0.0 17 27 4.8 
Mercury 2 12 6.0 12 9 18.0 Sun 10 19.2 19 8 0.0 
Ketu 0 29 18.0 13 9 12.0 Moon 2 8 0.0 21 16 0.0 
Vonus 2 25 0.0 16 4 12.0 Mars 1 17 14.4 23 3 14.4 
Sun 0 25 12.0 17 0 0.0 Rahu 4 2 9.6 27 6 0.0 

Mercury-Mars Mercury-Saturn 
Anlardasha OY·1 1M·270 Anlardasha 2Y·8M·9D 
Pralyanlar Period Total Pratynntnr Period Total 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 

Mars 0 20 19.8 0 20 19.8 Saturn 5 3 10.2 5 3 10.2 
Rahu 23 132 2 14 9.0 Morcury 4 17 6.6 9 20 16.8 
Jupiter 17 14.4 4 23.4 Ketu 1 26 12.6 11 17 5.4 
Saturn 26 12.6 5 28 12.0 Venus 5 11 12.0 16 28 17.4 
Mercury 1 20 13.8 7 19 1.8 Sun 18 10.8 18 17 4.2 
Ketu 0 20 19.8 8 9 21.6 Moon 2 20 18.0 21 7 22.2 
Vonus 1 29 12.0 10 9 9.6 Mars 1 26 12.6 23 4 10.8 
Sun 0 17 20.4 to 27 6.0 Rahu 4 25 8.4 27 29 19.2 
Moon 0 29 18.0 11 27 0.0 Jupiter 4 9 4.8 32 9 0.0 



Tahle XIV-II 
Antardashas amll'rJII~lntarJashas 

in the Mahadasha •of KETU 

Kctu Mahadasha : 7 yc;lrs 

KETU Ketu-Venus 
Antardasha Period Tolal Anlardasha 1Y·2M·OD 

y M D y M D Pralyanlar Period Total 

Ke!u 0 4 27 0 4 27 M D H M D H 

Venus 1 2 0 1 6 27 Vonus 2 10 0.0 2 10 0.0 
Sun 0 4 6 1 11 3 Sun 0 21 0.0 3 1 0.0 
Moon 0 7 0 2 6 3 Moon 5 0.0 4 6 0.0 

Mars 0 4 27 2 11 0 Mara 0 24 12.0 5 0 12.0 

R!tlu 1 0 18 Rahu 2 3 0.0 7 
3 11 18 3 12.0 

.l.ipiler Jupiter 1 
0 11 29 12.0 

6 26 0.0 8 
4 10 24 Saturn 2 6 0.0 

Saturn 6 12.0 11 
1 1 9 ~ 

6 0 3 Mercury 29 12.0 13 5 12.0 
llllerrury 0 11 27 7 0 0 Ketu 0 24 12.0 14 0 0.0 

Ketu-Ketu Ketu-Sun 
Anlardasha OY-41.1·270 Anlardasha OY·4M.£0 
Pralyanlar Period Total Pratyanlar Poriod Total 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 

Kotu 0 8 13.8 0 8 13.8 Sun 0 6 7.2 0 6 7.2 
Venus 0 24 12.0 3 1.8 Moon 0 10 12.0 0 16 19.2 
Sun 0 7 8.4 10 10.2 Mara 0 7 8.4 0 24 3.6 
Moon 0 12 6.0 22 16.2 Rahu 0 18 21.6 13 12 
Mars 0 8 13.8 2 1 6.0 Jupiter 0 16 19.2 29 20.4 
Rahu 0 22 12 2 23 7.2 Saturn 0 19 22.8 2 19 19.2 
Jup~er 0 19 14.4 3 12 21.6 Mercury 0 17 20.4 3 7 15.6 
Saturn 0 23 6.6 4 6 4.2 Ketu 0 7 8.4 3 15 0.0 
Mercury 0 20 19.8 4 27 0.0 Vonus 0 21 0.0 4 6 0.0 



Ketu-Moon Ketu-Jupiter 
Antardasha OY·7M-oD Anlardasha OY-11M·6D 
Pratyanlar Period Total Pralyanlar Period Total 

M D H M D H M D H M D !::! 
Moon 0 17 12.0 0 17 12.0 Jupiter 14 19.2 14 19.2 
Mars 0 12 6.0 0 29 18.0 Saturn 23 4.8 3 8 0.0 
Rahu 1 12.0 2 1 6.0 Mercury 1 17 14.4 4 25 14.4 
Jup~or 0 28 0.0 2 29 6.0 Kotu 0 19 14.4 5 15 4.8 
Saturn 1 3 6.0 4 2 12.0 Venus 1 26 0.0 7 11 4.8 
Morcury 0 29 18.0 5 2 6.0 Sun 0 16 19.2 7 28 0.0 
Ketu 0 12 6.0 5 14 12.0 Moon 0 28 0.0 8 26 0.0 
Venus 1 5 0.0 6 19 12.0 Mars 0 19 14.4 9 15 14.4 
Sun 0 10 12.0 7 0 0.0 Rahu 20 9.6 11 6 0.0 

Ketu-Mars Ketu-Saturn 
Anlardasha OY·4M·27D Antardasho IY-11.1·90 
Pratyanlar Period Total Pra1yanlar Poriod Total 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 
Mars 0 8 13,8 0 8 13.8 Saturn 2 3 4.2 2 3 4.2 
Rahu 0 22 1.2 0 15.0 Morcury 1 26 12.6 3 29 16.8 
Jupiter 0 19 14.4 20 5.4 Ketu 0 23 6.6 4 22 23.4 
Saturn 0 23 6.6 2 13 12.0 Venus 2 6 12.0 6 29 11.4 
Mercury 0 20 19.8 3 4 7.8 Sun 0 19 22.8 7 19 10.2 
Kotu 0 8 13.8 3 12 21.6 Moon 3 6.0 8 22 16.2 
Venu3 0 24 12.0 4 7 9.6 Mars 0 23 6.6 9 15 22.8 
Sun 0 7 8.4 4 14 18.0 Rahu 29 20.4 11 15 19.2 
Moon 0 12 6,0 4 27 0.0 Jup~or 23 4.8 13 9 0.0 

Ketu-Rahu Ketu-Mercury 
Antardasha 1Y·OM·180 Antardasha OY-11 M-270 
Pratyanlar Poriod Total Pralyanlar Poriod Total 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 
Rahu 26 16.8 26 16.8 Morcury 20 13.8 1 20 13.8 
Jupiter 20 9.6 3 17 2.4 Kotu 0 20 19.8 2 11 9.6 
Saturn 29 20.4 5 16 22.8 Venus 1 29 12.0 4 10 21.6 
Morcury 1 23 132 7 10 12.0 Sun 0 17 20.4 4 28 18.0 
Ketu 0 22 1.2 8 2 13.2 Moon 0 29 18.0 5 28 12.0 
Venus 2 3 0.0 10 5 13.2 Mare 0 20 19.8 6 19 7.8 
Sun 0 18 21.8 10 24 10.8 Rahu 23 13.2 8 12 21.0 
Moon 12.0 11 25 22.8 Jup~or 17 14.4 10 0 11.4 
Mars 0 22 1.2 12 18 0.0 Saturn 26 12.6 11 27 0.0 



T.1blc XIV-12 
Antardashas and Prntpnt;mlasl1as 

in the Mahadasha ofVENUS 

Venus Mahadasha : 20 yc:tr~ 

VENUS Venus-Sun 
Anlardasha Period Total Antardasha tY·OM.OD 

y M D y M D Pralyanlar Period Tolal 

Venus 3 4 0 3 4 0 M 0 H M D H 

Sun 0 0 4 4 0 Sun 0 18 0.0 0 18 0.0 

Moon 8 0 6 0 0 Moon 0 0.0 1 18 0.0 

Mars 1 2 0 7 2 0 Mars 0 21 0.0 2 9 0.0 
Rahu 3 0 0 10 2 0 Rahu 1 24 0.0 4 3 0.0 

Jupiter 2 8 0 Jupiter 18 0.0 
1210 0 5 21 0.0 

Saturn 27 0.0 7 18 0.0 
Satum 3 2 0 16 0 0 Mercury 21 0.0 9 9 0.0 
Mercury 2 10 0 18 10 0 Kotu 0 21 0.0 10 0 0.0 
Ketu 1 2 0 20 0 0 Venus 2 0 0.0 12 0 0.0 

Venus-Venus Venus-Moon 
Anlardasha 3Y·4M·OD Antardasha 1Y·8M-OD 

Pralyanlar Period Tolal Pratyanlar Period Total 
M D H M D H M D H M D H 

Venus 6 20 0.0 6 20 0.0 Moon 20 0.0 1 20 0.0 
Sun 2 0 0.0 8 20 0.0 Mars 5 0.0 2 25 0.0 
Moon 3 10 0.0 12 0 0.0 Rahu 3 0 0.0 5 25 0.0 
Mars 2 10 0.0 14 10 0.0 Jupiter 2 20 0.0 8 15 0.0 
Rahu 6 0 0.0 20 10 0.0 Saturn 3 5 0.0 11 20 0.0 
Jupiter 5 10 0.0 25 20 0.0 Mercury 2 25 0.0 14 15 0.0 
Saturn 6 10 0.0 32 0 0.0 Ketu 5 0.0 15 20 0.0 
Mercury 5 20 0.0 37 20 0.0 Venus 3 10 0.0 19 0 0.0 
Ko!u 2 10 0.0 40 0 0.0 Sun 0 0.0 20 0 0.0 



Venus-Mars Venus-Saturn 
Antardasha 1Y  ·21.1.00 Anlardasha 3Y-2M-OD 
Pralyanlar Poriod Tolal Pralyanlar Poriod Total 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 
Mars 0 24 12.0 0 24 12.0 Saturn 6 0 12.0 6 0 12.0 
Rahu 2 3 0.0 2 27 12.0 Morcury 5 11 12.0 11 12 0.0 
Jupitor 1 26 0.0 4 23 12.0 Kolu 2 6 12D 13 18 1~0 

Saturn 2 6 12.0 7 0 0.0 Venus 6 10 0.0 19 28 12.0 
Mercury 29 12.0 8 29 12.0 Sun 1 27 0.0 21 25 12.0 
Kotu 0 24 12.0 9 24 0.0 Moon 3 5 0.0 25 0 12.0 
Venus 2 10 0.0 12 4 0.0 Mars 2 6 12.0 27 7 0.0 
Sun 0 21 0.0 12 25 0.0 Rahu 5 21 0.0 32 28 0.0 
Moon 5 0.0 14 0 0.0 Jupitor 5 2 0.0 38 0 0.0 

Venus-Rahu Venus-Mercury 
Antardasha 3Y.OM·OD Antardasha 2Y-10M-OO 
Pralyantar Poriod Total Pratyanlar Period Total 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 
Rahu 5 12 0.0 5 12 0.0 Mercury 4 24 12.0 4 24 12.0 
Jupiter 4 24 0.0 10 6 0.0 Kelu 1 29 12.0 6 24 0.0 
Saturn 5 21 0.0 15 27 0.0 Vonus 5 20 0.0 12 14 0.0 
Mercury 5 3 0.0 21 0 0.0 Sun 1 21 0.0 14 5 0.0 
Ketu 2 3 0,0 23 3 0.0 Moon 2 25 0.0 17 0 0.0 
Vonus 6 0 0.0 29 3 0.0 M<~rs 29 12.0 18 29 12.0 
Sun 1 24 0.0 30 27 0.0 Rahu 5 3 0.0 24 2 12.0 
Moon 3 0 0.0 33 27 0.0 Jupiter 4 16 0.0 28 18 12.0 
Mars 2 3 0.0 36 0 0.0 Saturn 5 11 12.0 34 0 0.0 

Venus-Jupiter Venus-Ketu 
An\ardcsha 2Y·8M·OO Anlardasha 1Y·2M·OD 
Pralyanlar Period Tolal Pratyantar Period Total 

M D H M D H M D H M D H 
Jupitor 4 8 0.0 4 8 0.0 Kotu 0 24 12.0 0 24 12.0 
Saturn 5 2 0.0 9 10 0.0 Venus 2 10 0.0 3 4 12.0 
Mercury 4 16 0.0 13 26 0.0 Sun 0 21 0.0 3 25 12.0 
Kolu 26 0.0 15 22 0.0 Moon 1 5 0.0 5 0 12.0 
Vonus 5 10 0.0 21 2 0.0 Mars 0 24 12.0 5 25 0.0 
Sun 1 18 0.0 22 20 0.0 Rahu 2 3 0.0 7 28 0.0 
Moon 2 20 0.0 25 10 0.0 Jupitor 1 26 0.0 9 24 0.0 
Mars 26 0.0 27 6 0.0 Saturn 2 6 12.0 12 0 12.0 
Rahu 4 24 0.0 32 0 0.0 Morcury 29 12.0 14 0 0.0 



Further finer divisions 

The PD or sub-sub-period can be divided into Sookshma dasha which is subject to 
further subdivision into Pranadasha. The Sookshma dasha and the Pranadasha permit 
very accurate timing of events. However, their use demands a very accurate recording of 
the birth time which is not always possible. 



The Y ogini Dasha 

The Yogini dasha cycle is a cycle of 36 years. There are eight Yoginis with a 
specific lord of each, as also a specific dasha period. This is given below in Table XIV-
13. 

Table XIY-13 
Yo gini Dasha 

The Yogini Dasha The Lord Duration 

1. ~Ian gala The Moon 1 veal' 
2. PingaL1 The Sun 2 years 
3. Dhauva Jupiter 3 years 
4. Bhramati Mars 4 years 
5. Bh ad1ika Mercury 5 years 
6. L'lka Sa tum 6 years 
7. Si.ddha Venus 7 years 
8. Sankata Rahu/Ketu 8 years 

Total 36 years 

The Yogini dasha operating at the time of birth is obtained by adding 3 to the 
nakshatra of the Moon, and dividing by eight. The remainder gives the number of the 
Yogini dasha operating at the time of birth, according to the order given above. As in the 
Vimshottari dasha, the balance ofYogini dasha must be determined from the remaining 
part of the Moon's nakshatra. 

Tables XIV-I4, XIV-15, XIV-16 and XIV-17 give basic information about the 
Yogini dasha operating at birth, the duration of the AD's, and the nature of the AD's 
under various MD's. These are reproduced from Applications of Yogini Dasha by TI1anji 
and Sharma, to which the reader is referred for further information. This dasha is widely 
used by India's old and brilliant astrologers, particularly in the Himalayan belt, for fast 
and sure predictions. 



Table XIY-14 
Nakshatras and the YoginiDasha 

Yogini Dasha Nakshatras 

.1, . Mang ala Ardra, Chitra, Shravana 

-· Pin gala Puna 1nsu, Swa ti, Dhanishtha 
3. Dhanva Pushya, Vishakha, Shatabhishaj 
4. Bhrama1i Ashlesha, Anuradha, P. Bhadrapad, Ashwini 
5. Bhachika :\Iagba, Jyeshtha, C Bhadrapad, Bharani 
6. Ulka P. Phalguni, Moola, Revati, Klittika 
7. Siddha U. Phalgun~ P. Ashadha, Rohini 
8. Sankata Hasta, U. Asadha, :\higashira 



TableXIY-15 
Yogini Dasha bv longitude of the Moon 

D D 

Loug of Moon Rashi Dasha Raslti Dasha Raslti I> ash a 

ocoo· - 13°20' Mesh a Bhramari Simha Bhadrika Dhanu tlkl 
13°20' - 26°~0' Bhadrika rlka Siddha 

26°~0' - 3o:oo· Ulka Siddha Sankata 

ocoo· -woo· Vrisha Ulka K:mya Siddha MakaraSankata 

IOCOO' - 23°20' Sid db a S:mkata Mangala 

23°20' - 30=00* Sankata Mangala Pingala 

ow - 6°~0' Mithuna Sankata Tula Mangala Kumbh.Pingala 

6°~o· -woo· Mangala Pingala Dhanya 

20W -30W Ping ala Dhanya Bhramari 

ow- 3°20' Kark.'l Ping ala \'risd1. Dhanya Meena Bhramari 

3°20' - w~o· Dhanya Bhramari Bhadrika 

w~o· -3ow Bhr:un:t ri Bhadrika rtkl 



Table XIV-16: Yogini Oasha ~lajorand Sub Periods 

r~~iui ~I an gala (I y) Pin!,rala (2 y) . Dh:m~~' (Jy) . Rhmmari (-ly) Rhadrika (5y) . Ulka (i>y) . Siddlta ( iy) Sank.·ua (Sy) 

S.P nt.l! S.J! n:.d S.l! r~t.;J S.P 'Ut.r! S.P r~:.:l S.l~ r~/,J/ S.P n,,,:l S.P T~t.JJ 
Sub 1'>.·rir,./, \~m-,/ \~m-.1 \~/1/•o/ _\~///•,/ ~~m-,1 r·m·d \'-tn-d ~~m-,1 \~m-.1 ..-m .. ,l r·m·d r·m-J ., .. m-,1 r·m-.1 r·m·d \'·m·d 

~l:mg;d11 Cl-0.10 0·0.10 - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
l1ingala 0.0-~ 0-1J)) t)-1-10 1J-Hl - - - - - - - - - - - -
Dh~m·a ~l-(0 0-2-{lj 0-2-{•J 0-3-lol 1)-3.0 0-3-0 - - - - - - - - - -
Rhram••ri 0-1-10 o-3-1u 0-2-i~ %-') D-lO D-7-~ 0-£-11) 0-$-10 - - - - - - - -
Bhadrika Cl-1-~ 0-5-J)) 0-3-10 u-9-w 0-SJJ IJ}O IH·W 1-\1-0 0-B-10 l}.e-10 - - - - - -
Ulk.1 (1.2-{0 0·7JJl HOJ 1+ 10 0.6.0 1·6-0 %(1) H-0 IH).O) 1~10 1.0.0 ~~ - - - -
Siddha 0-2-10 0-9-10 0-4-i~ 1-6-IJ 0-i-0 2-1-0 0-410 2-5--10 !}. 11-Lll 2~ 1-2-0 2-2-IJ 1-.l-10 1-4-IQ - -
S;mkara 0-2·l'J 1·0.00 0-~10 I-1HJ o-a-O ?·9-0 0-1(}.20 3-l-0 I·HJ 3·1·10 I.. .H  3+0 1-£-20 2·1J.O 1·9-1G 1-9-10 
~tan gala - - 0-2-{1 2-0-0 1}-l-{1 2-1/M 0-HJ 3-~iO 0-1-(1) l·9-D 0-2-0 3-S-IJ 0-2-loJ 3-1-I·J 0-2-t'J 2-ll-0 
f'ing-Jia - - - - 0-2.0 3-0-0 u-2·~ 3-S·O 0·3·10 ~-V-1•) ~-0 -~-~ 0-4-1.(1 3~ 0-5-10 2·5-10 
Dham·a - - - - - - IHOO ~-0-IJ !i-5-0l ~-5-10 ~ H-0 !i-7-0 4-1-0 1}8-0 3-1-10 
Bhramari - - - - - - - - ~ll) S-QJ) a.-HI 5-2-0 0-9-lt) ~-10-I·J 0-10-~ 4-ll-0 
Bltallrik;a - - - - - - - - - - 0-1•)-0 6-ll-0 0-11-~J 5-lo-.J 1-1-10 5-1-10 
Ulka - - - - - - - - - - - - 1-2-00 7-0 -IJ J-..1-0 &-5-10 
Sidtlha - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1.£-l\1 8-0-!l 



Tab1c XIV-li 
Nature of various antardashas under the Yogini mal1adashas 

Mahadasha Antardasha (AD) 

(AID) Benefic Malefic Neutral 

1. Mangala Mangala, Dhanr.1 Pingala, Bhramari, -
Bhadrika, Siddha Ulka, Sankata 

2. Ping;tl:! Mangala, Pingala, Bhramari, Ulka, Siddha 
Dh:my;l, Bhadrika Sankata 

3. Dhanya Mangala, Dhany-a, Pingala, Bhramari, -
Bhadrika, Siddha Ulka, Sankata 

4. Bhramari ManQala, Dhanya, Pingala, Bhramari, Bhadrika 
Siddha Ulka, Sankata 

5. Bhadrika Mangala, Ping ala Ulka, Sankata Bhramari 
Dhanya, Bhadrika, 
Siddha 

6. Ulka - Pingala, Dhanya, Mangala 
Bhramari, Bhadrika, 
Ulka. Siddha, 
Sankata 

7. Siddha Mangala, Dhanya, Pingala, Bhr.tnmi, -
Bhadrika, Siddha Ulka, Sankata 

8. Sankata Siddha Mangala, Pingala, Bhadrika 
Dhanya, Bhramari, 
Ulka, Sankata 



... xv ... 
Interpretation of the Vimshottari Dasha 

Under My guidance, the nature brings forth all things, moving 
and unmoving; because ofthis, 0 Kaunteya, the world revolves 
in cycles. 

Gita IX/I 0 

Planets produce their results only when their dasha periods operate. Within the MD 
of a planet, the AD's of all the planets operate one after the other. Similarly, the PO's of 
different planets operated in each AD. The MD gives a broad timing which is narrowed 
by the use of the AD. The PD narrows it down further to within a few months. The 
Sookshma and the Prana dashas, if calculated accurately, help time an event extremely 
closely. 
Planets produce their results: 
1. According to their inherent nature, which includes their natural disposition toward 
other planets; and 
2. According to their disposition in the horoscope, in the Rashi chart as well as the vargas. 



MAHADASHAS 

The principles that govern the results of dashas of planets are as follows: 
1. Favourable results are produced by a dasha lord which is strong, exalted, in its own 
house, in its Moolatrikona, in a friend's house, under benefic association or aspect, and 
located in good houses like the kendras or the trines or the 11th or the 2nd house or 
associated with the 9th or the 1Oth lord. 
2. Adverse results are produced by a dasha lord which is weak or debilitated, in the house 
of an enemy, combust, placed in houses 6, 8 or 12, and under malefic association or 
aspect. 
3. Timing of fructification of results: A planet located in the first Drekkana of a sign 
produces its results during the beginning of its dasha. Located in the middle Drekkana of 
a sign, the planet produces its results during the middle part of its dasha. When located in 
the third Drekkana, its results manifest during the concluding portion of its dasha. 
For a retrograde planet, the above order gets reversed. 
4. Ownership of a house: The ownership of a house by the dasha lord is extremely 
important. During the dasha of its lord, a house suddenly becomes active, and events 
pertaining to it manifest in varying ways depending upon the strength, the weakness and 
the extent of affliction of its lord. 
The results of the Mahadashas of various planets are being, briefly, described below. 



Dasha of the SUN 

When favourable: 
Gain in wealth, varied comforts, favours from the king, rise in status. Associated with the 
5th lord: child birth. With the 2nd lord: prosperity, vehicles. With the 4th lord: vehicles. 
When adverse: 
Miseries, loss of wealth, disfavour of the ruler, foreign residence, loss of status, 
punishment, opposition from friends and relatives, loss of father. 



Dasha of the MOON 

When favourable: 
Wide renown, prosperity, auspiCIOus events at home, association with the ruler, 
accomplishment of undertakings, favour from the king, rise in status, child birth, growth 
of cattle, acquisition of white clothes. Particularly beneficial when located in the 2nd 
house. 
When adverse: 
Loss of wealth, physical and mental torment, trouble from servants, worries in connection 
with the mother, opposition to the ruler. 






Dasha of RAHU 

When favourable: 
Varied comforts, prosperity, religious inclinations, auspicious celebration, honour in 
foreign countries, recognition by a foreign ruler. 
When adverse: 
Displacement, mental anguish, loss of wife and child, unclean food, bodily suffering, loss 
of wealth. Relatively comfortable during the mid-portion of its dasha. 



Dasha of .JUPITER 

When favourable: 
Rise in status, several comforts, royal favour, acquisition of vehicles, worship of gods and 
Brahmins, comforts from wife and children, study of Vedic chants and hymns, 
accomplishment through king's grace and generally auspicious results. 
When adverse: 
Displacement, mental anguish, loss of cattle, pilgrimage. Beginning of the dasha is more 
hurtful but gradually becomes favourable as it concludes. 



Dasha of SATURN 

When favourable: 
Favours from the ruler, religious pursuits, learning and wealth, rise in status, varied 
physical comforts. 
When adverse: 
Displacement, great fear, loss of parents, illness to wife and child, inauspicious 
happenings, imprisonment, etc. 
Note:Saturn is particularly favourable when associated with or aspected by benefics, in a 
kendra, trine or the I lth house, and in the signs of Jupiter (Dhanu, Meena). 



Dasha of MERCURY 

When favourable: 
Great comforts, wealth and prosperity, renown, gain of knowledge and learning, 
auspicious and virtuous deeds, good health, good food and earnings from business. 
When adverse: 
King's wrath, mental anguish, opposition from relatives, foreign travel, servility, urinary 
ailments, loss of pleasure and wealth, fear from thieves and fire, loss of cows and land. 
Generally favourable in the beginning of the dasha, ruler's favours in the middle of the 
dasha, followed by untoward results towards the concluding part of the dasha. 



Dasha of KETU 

When favourable: 
Acquisition of objects of desire, lordship of a village or town or country, foreign travel, 
varied comforts. 
When adverse: 
Imprisonment, loss of dear ones, displacement, mental anguish, illness, association with 
low people. 
Note: Ketu in 3rd, 6th or II th house causes rise in status in the beginning of the dasha, 
fears during the middle of the dasha, and distant travel during the concluding portion of 
the dasha. 



Dasha of VENUS 

When favourable: 
Royal status, vehicles, good clothes, ornaments, good food, favours from the ruler, good 
house, great prosperity, marriage, high status in army, gains from all directions. 
When adverse: 
Opposition from near and dear ones, troubles from womenfolk, loss in professional 
status, separation from near and dear ones. Venus as the lord of the 2nd house or 7th 
house causes illness during its dasha. 



ANTARDASHAS OR SUB-PERIODS 

The various planets run their Antardasha (AD) within the major period (MD) of each 
planet. Their good or bad results depend upon: 
I. Favourable or adverse disposition of the MD lord; and 
2. Favorable or adverse disposition of the AD lord. 
The AD lord works within the overall limits imposed by the MD lord. The results 
promised by an MD lord manifest within an appropriate AD. Whether a particular AD 
would prove favourable or adverse depends upon the disposition of the AD lord. The 
following factors must be considered while deciding on the nature of a particular AD 
lord. 
I. Favourable: An AD lord gives favourable results when it is: 

(a) Exalted, in its own house or in its Moolatrikona sign. 
(b) Placed in kendras or trikonas. 
(c) Placed in the I I th house. 
(d) Associated with or aspected by natural benefics. 
(e) Associated with the 9th or the lOth lord or with a Yogakaraka planet. 
(f) Placed in a kendra or trikona from the MD lord. 

2. Adverse: This happens when the AD lord is: 
(a) Weak, debilitated, combust or placed in its enemy's house. 
(b) Located in Trika houses. 
(c) Influenced by natural malefics. 
(d) Influenced by the Trika lords. 
(e) Placed in an adverse house (6, 8 or 12) from the MD lord. 
(f) Afflicted as above and, additionally, happens to be the lord of the 2nd or the 
7th house. In this situation, it causes untimely death or physical illness. This is 
particularly so when the AD lord is in one of the Trika houses. 
The results of the various antardashas in the major periods of planets are being 

briefly described below. These are primarily based on the views ofParashara. 



Antardashas in the Mahadasha of the SUN 

Sun 
Favourable: 
Varied gains, prosperity, rise in professional status. 
Adverse: 
Excessive expenditure, bilious excess, misfortune to near and dear ones, untimely death. 
Moon 
Favourable: 
Auspicious occasions (marriage, etc.), prosperity, favours from women, gain in wealth, 
accomplishment of desires through favours from the ruler, proliferation of such sources 
of wealth as houses, lands, cattle and vehicles, comforts fom wife and children, good 
fortune, glory, acquisition of clothes and ornaments, and reconciliation with enemies. 
Adverse: 
Troubles to wife and children, involvement in controversies, opposition to the ruler, 
mental anguish, fear of drowning, imprisonment, distress from the sons, unclean food, 
urinary ailments, untimely demise. 
Mars 
Favourable: 
Auspicious ceremonies, gains from houses, lands and agriculture, gain of wealth, favours 
from the ruler, command of an army, stability of mind, destruction of enemies, 
acquisition of reddish robes and precious stones, general well being ofthe siblings. 
Adverse: 
Distorted discrimination, mental anguish, failure in undertakings, loss of wealth acquired 
from the ruler, physical illness, loss of near and dear ones, accident-proneness, 
incarceration, and generally adverse results. 
Rahu 
Favourable: 
The first two months of the Rahu AD causes loss of wealth and general apprehensions. 
Thieves, serpents and accidents cause concern. Good results ensue after two months. 
Favours from the ruler and good fortune are other results. 
Adverse: 
Confinement, imprisonment, displacement, theft, accidents, fear from thieves, loss of 
lands, houses, etc., and danger of untimely death. 
Jupiter 
Favourable: 



Auspicious ceremonies, king's favours, gain of wealth, child birth, attainment of objects 
of desire, inclination towards charities and religious pursuits, devotion to God and guru, 
mental peace and virtuous undertakings. 
Adverse: 
Physical illness to the native as well as to his wife and child, king's wrath, mental anguish, 
loss of desired objects. 
Saturn 
Favourable: 
Loss of enemies, gain of wealth, auspicious ceremonies, royal favours. 
Adverse: 
Chronic and painful illness, imprisonment, loss of work and wealth, great apprehension, 
unexpected opposition, separation from parents. 
Mercury 
Favourable: 
Gain in status, royal favours conferring vehicles, ornaments and good clothes, good 
health to wife and children, indulgence in religious pursuits, auspicious happenings like 
marriage or child birth, performance of prescribed religious rituals, renown, honours and 
awards. 
Adverse: 
Physical illness, mental anguish, ill health to wife and child, aimless wandering. 
Ketu 
Favourable: 
Ketu produces favourable results in the MD of the Sun, if it is located in Oopachaya (3, 
6, 10 and ll) houses, associated with Yogakaraka planets and in the vargas of benefics. lt 
leads to increase of friends, good fortune, mental satisfaction, rise in status and generally 
good results. 
Adverse: 
Physical illness, mental anguish, increased expenditure, king's wrath, disease of the oral 
cavity and teeth, urinary ailments, displacement from home, loss of father, inauspicious 
news, untimely death. 
Venus 
Favourable: 
Fulfilment of objects of desire, association with the good and the powerful, royal favours, 
increase in status, good food, acquisition of precious stones and general prosperity. 
Adverse: 
Wrath of the ruler, mental torment, loss of child, wife and wealth, displacement, 



deprivation of physical comforts, untimely death. The beginning of the dasha produces 
mediocre results, the middle of the dasha causes benefic results, while the concluding 
portion of the dasha yields very adverse results. 



Antardashas in the Mahadasha of the MOON 

Moon 
Favourable: 
Acquisition of such objects of comfort as good clothes, horses, elephants and vehicles, 
devotion towards God and guru, recitation of sacred chants, rise in status, prosperity. 
Adverse: 
Loss of wealth, displacement from home, laziness and excessive somnolence, mental 
torment, illness to mother, incarceration and untimely death. 
Mars 
Favourable: 
Great fortune, royal favours, acqms1t1on of garments and ornaments, accomplishments 
through personal effort, gains from houses, lands and business. 
Adverse: 
Losses in business, physical illness, separation from dear ones, ruler's wrath, poor 
digestion. 
Rahu 
Favourable: 
Success in all undertakings, favours from a ruler from a western country, acquisition of 
vehicles and garments, pilgrimage, religious undertakings. 
Note: These results ensue when Rahu is in an Oopachaya house from the lagna, or in a 
benefic house (kendra, trikona, 3rd or 1 lth house) from the MD lord. 
Adverse: 
Displacement from place of work, mental anguish, unfounded fears, dominance and 
torture by enemies, fear from poisonous animals (snakes, scorpions, etc.), loss of face, 
and wrath of the ruler. 
Note: Rahu produces adverse results even when located in a kendra or a trikona. 
Jupiter 
Favourable: 
Enhanced status, royal favours, gain of wealth, child birth, ausp1c10us occasions, 
acquisition of lands and vehicles, fulfilment of desires, courageous deeds, general 
prosperity. 
Adverse: 
Inauspicious events, displacement, loss of child and preceptor, loss of lands, vehicles and 
houses, unclean food, wandering in foreign countries, untimely death. 
Saturn 



Favourable: 
Acquisition of wealth, gains from friends and children, royal favours, pilgrimage, 
favours from a Shudra king. 
Adverse: 
Troubles from enemies, bodily illness, unfounded fears, sad news. 
Mercury 
Favourable: 
Enhanced income and status, study of scriptures, increased knowledge and learning, 
contentment, gains in business, marriage and child birth, religious rituals, association with 
scholars, acquisition of precious stones. 
Adverse: 
Physical illness, losses in agriculture and business, confinement, troubles to wife and 
child. 
Ketu 
Favourable: 
Gain ofwealth, religious pursuits, increased income from cattle. 
Adverse: 
Mental inconsistency, enmity with low people, sudden controversy, physical illness. 
Venus 
Favourable: 
Rise in status, acqmsltlon of garments, vehicles and ornaments through royal favours, 
benefits from cattle, residence in a new house, good food, good health, association with 
several charming women, birth of a daughter, general prosperity. 
Adverse: 
Foreign residence, painful illness, fear of theft, untimely death. 
Sun 
Favourable: 
Acquisition of lost wealth and status, increased income, auspicious occasions at home, 
gains from lands, birth of a son, good health. 
Adverse: 
Fear from thief, serpent and the ruler, febrile illness, laziness, foreign residence. 



Antardashas in the Mahadasha of MARS 

Mars 
Favourable: 
Renown through the ruler's grace, proliferation of wealth, acquisition of lost wealth and 
status, gains from horses, lands and cattle. 
Adverse: 

Injury from weapon or fire, fear from thief, serpent and the king, urinary ailment, mental 
and physical torment. 
Rahu 
Favourable: 

Honour by the ruler, gains from houses and lands, success in business, dips in holy rivers, 
foreign visits. 
Adverse: 
Fear of injury, thieves and serpents, loss of cattle, incarceration, loss of wealth and 
untimely death. 
Jupiter 
Favourable: 

Enhanced status, royal favours, general prosperity, auspiciOus events, proliferation of 
lands and houses, good health, benefits from cattle, successful business, comforts from 
wife and children. 

Adverse: 
Fall in status, wrath of the ruler, loss of servants and siblings, fever, excess of Pitta or bile, 
untimely death. 
Saturn 
Favourable: 
Rise in profession, gain in status, good fortune, honour by the ruler, comforts to children 
and grandchildren. 

Adverse: 
Fear from a mlechchha (belonging to an alien land) king, imprisonment, physical illness, 
losses in travel, mental anguish, injuries from thieves and fire, loss of siblings, tragic 
events, sudden death. 

Note: Saturn is bad when located in a kendra or trikona from the MD lord Mars. It is 
worse when in houses 8 or 12 from Mars. 
Mercnry 

Favourable: 



Association with the virtuous, religious inclination, pious deeds, name and fame, 
pursuance of the prescribed path, good food, rise in status, acquisition of cattle, clothes 
and vehicles, gains from agriculture, command of an army, increased learning, general 
prosperity. 
Adverse: 
Loss of face, heart disease, incarceration, increase of enemies, foreign residence, lack of 
discriminative ability, fear from thieves and fire, bad speech, opposition from dear ones. 
Ketu 
Favourable: 
Many comforts, increased income, service of the king, acquisition of horses, etc., gain in 
status, command of an army, religious pursuits, acquisition of garments and ornaments, 
etc. 
Adverse: 
Dental disease, fear oftheft, physical illness, illness to wife and children, loss of face, and 
mental torment. 
Venus 
Favourable: 
Rise in status, vehicles and physical comforts, gain in health and glory, excessive income, 
inclination towards music, song, dance and art, religious pursuits. 
Adverse: 
Physical illness, loss of wealth, fear from thieves and the ruler, injury from weapons, 
residence in a foreign land, discord at home and loss of cattle. 
Sun 
Favourable: 
Acquisition of fame, vehicle and progeny, increased income and wealth, good health, 
stability of mind, royal favours, recognition in foreign countries. 
Adverse: 
Physical illness, mental anguish, losses at work, disease of the head, snakebite, febrile 
illness. 
Moon 
Favourable: 
Rise in status, acqUisition of wealth through the ruler, virtuous deeds, auspicious 
occasions at home, fulf.tlment of desires. 
Adverse: 
Illness to wife and child, loss of lands and cattle, fear from thieves, mental anguish, 
untimely death. 



Antardashas in the Mahadasha ofRAHU 

Rahu 
Favourable: 
Royal honours, profits in business, westward journey, rise in professional status, 
courageous pursuits, gain in wealth. 
Note: Rahu is particularly favourable in Karka, Vrischika, Kanya and Dhanu. 
Adverse: 
Fear of injury, loss of near and dear ones, illness to wife and child, troubles from the 
ruler, loss offace. 
Jupiter 
Favourable: 
Rise in status, stability of mind, loss of enemies, gain in wealth, travel and recognition in 
western countries, fulfilment of undertakings, return to one's native country, birth of 
child, good food, gain of houses and lands, religious inclinations. 
Adverse: 
Loss of wealth, obstruction in undertakings, mental turmoil, heart disease, illness to father 
and mother, loss of elder brother, untimely death. 
Saturn 
Favourable: 
Service of the ruler, auspicious occasions in the house (marriage, etc.), founding of 
ponds and orchards, fulfilment of the objects of desire through a Shudra king, westward 
journey, return to one's native land. 
Adverse: 
General laziness, discord with wife and children, fear of enemies and the ruler, loss of 
face, heart disease, roaming in foreign countries, unclean food, untimely death. 
Mercury 
Favourable: 
Enhancement of status, general well being, gains in business, higher education, good 
vehicle, marriage, comforts of the bed, good health, fulfilment of desires, recitation of 
sacred hymns, religious pursuits. 
Adverse: 
Loss of wealth and physical comforts, despising the gods and the Brahmins, resorting to 
falsehood, distorted wisdom, excessive expenditure, untimely demise. 
Ketu 
Favourable: 



Fulfilment of desires, benefits from undertakings, gains from cattle, favours from the 
ruler, acquisition of wealth and ornaments. 
Adverse: 
Aimless wandering, physical and mental illness, fear from thieves, serpents and injuries, 
separation from mother and father. 
Venus 
Favourable: 
Acquisition of wealth through Brahmins, auspicious happenings, honour and favours 
from the ruler, acquisition of a new house, good friends, good food, marriage, 
inclination towards song and music, charitable disposition. 
Adverse: 
Physical illness, sudden discord, separation from parents, danger from poisons, serpents, 
thieves and the ruler, imprisonment, punishment, loss of wife, child and the employer, 
blood disorders, diabetes. 
Sun 
Favourable: 
Gain of wealth, favours from the ruler, name and fame, lordship over a village or a town 
or a country, great glory, foreign travel, fulfilment of desires. 
Adverse: 
Wrath of the ruler, increase of enemies, fear from thieves, fire and the ruler, serious 
illness. 
Moon 
Favourable: 
Status of a king, honour from the king, gain of wealth, good health, comforts through 
wife, sons and vehicles, increase ofhouses and lands, success in all undertakings. 
Adverse: 
Unfounded fears and phobias, wastage ofmoney, losses in journey, proneness to physical 
in jury, abdominal disease, untimely death. 
Mars 
Favourable: 
Acquisition of lost money and status, good food, good garments, comforts at home, 
beneficial journey, command of an army, material benefits through siblings. 
Adverse: 
Discord with wife and sons, displacement from home, fear of thieves, serpents and injury, 
general debility and laziness. 



Antardashas in the Mahadasha of JUPITER 

Jupiter 
Favourable: 
Attainment of rulership, worship by the ruler, acquisition of wealth, vehicles and physical 
comforts, gain of glory, name and fame. 
Adverse: 
Association with the low, illogical arguments, separation from wife and children, death of 
the employer, physical illness. 
Saturn 
Favourable: 
Gain in professional status, acquisition of garments, ornaments and wealth, benefits from 
lands and houses, beneficial travel to the west, proliferation of cattle, benefits from the 
Shudras. 
Adverse: 
Loss of wealth and property, mental anguish, febrile illness, proneness to injury, 
inauspicious happenings, loss of cattle, obstruction to profession, physical disease, 
untimely death. 
Mercury 
Favourable: 
Good health, gain in status, several comforts, fulfilment through king's favours, 
increased earnings in one's own land, comforts to father and mother. 
Note: Despite a favourable placement of Mercury, its AD in the MD of Jupiter causes loss 
of money. 
Adverse: 
Losses in business, febrile illness, loss of wealth, foreign travel, losses in travel, eye 
disease, injury from weapon or fire, sudden discord, untimely death. 
Ketu 
Favourable: 
Gain of wealth, earning through unfair means, acquisition of vehicles, fulfilment of 
desires, favours from a Yavana ruler. 
Note: Even a favourably disposed Ketu during its AD in the MD of Jupiter provides little 
monetary benefit, unclean food and food belonging to others. May be good for spiritual 
pursuits. 
Adverse: 
Loss of wealth through the wrath of the ruler, physical illness, loss of vigour, mental 



anguish and discord with brother. 
Venus 
Favourable: 
Much wealth and prosperity, excessive physical comforts, plenty of clothes and vehicles, 
gainful journey to the east, good for parents, devotion to God and guru, charitable 
disposition, marriage, association with learned people, inclination toward song and music. 
Adverse: 
Discord with dear ones, harm to wife and child, intense fear, troubles through women, 
loss ofmoney, discord with the father-in-law, untimely death. 
Sun 
Favourable: 
Gain of wealth and status, acquisition of vehicles and other wordly comforts, success in 
all undertakings. 
Adverse: 
Headache, fever, sinful acts, separation from dear ones, physical illness. 
Moon 
Favourable: 
Gain of glory, comforts from wife and children, good food (consisting of milk products), 
pious deeds, well being ofprogeny, good income, charitable disposition. 
Adverse: 
Loss of face, wealth and dear ones, foreign travel, troubles from thieves, loss of mother's 
brother, illness to mother, illness to the native. 
Mars 
Favourable: 
Gain in learning, marriage ceremony, gain of lands and houses, success in undertakings, 
good food, generally auspicious. 
Adverse: 
Loss of wealth, houses and lands, physical illness, eye disease, mental anguish. 
Rahu 
Favourable: 
Inclination toward Yoga, gain of wealth (during the first five months of the AD), 
leadership of a village or a country, favours from a Yavana king, distant travel, 
command of an army, religious inclinations. 
Adverse: 



Fear from thieves, serpents and weapons, opposition to the king, physical exertion, 
discord with brothers, inauspicious happenings, bad dreams, bodily disease. 



Antardashas in the Mahadasha of SATURN 

Saturn 
Favourable: 
Rise in status, benefits to wife and progeny, availability of vehicles, command of a king's 
army, acquisition of lordship over a village or a town. 
Adverse: 
Fear from the ruler, troubles ansmg from poisons and weapons, bleeding disorders, 
displacement from one's country, mental anguish, untimely death. 
Mercury 
Favourable: 
Name and fame, learning, gain of wealth, mental and physical comforts, pilgrimage, bath 
in holy waters, gains in business, good food, charitable nature. 
Adverse: 
Physical illness, obstruction to undertakings, mental anguish, unfounded fears. 
Note: The above adverse results occur during the middle and concluding portions of the 
AD of Mercury. During the early part of this AD, despite affliction, good results are 
experienced. 
Ketu 
Favourable: 
Increased earnings, pilgrimages, religious inclinations, and association with the ruler. 
Note: Good results only ensue if Ketu is associated with the lagna lord, or in houses 3 or 
II from the MD lord. In other situations generally held favourable (e.g., placement in a 
kendra or a trikona, or with a Yogakaraka planet), AD of Ketu only produces adverse 
results. 
Adverse: 
Displacement, penury, foreign travel, incarceration, unclean food, febrile illness, 
untimely death. 
Venus 
Favourable: 
Accomplishment of desires, gain of wealth, wife and progeny, physical comforts, good 
health, auspicious ceremonies, name and fame, acquisition of imported garments, favours 
from the ruler, composing ofpoetry, study of sacred scriptures. 
Adverse: 
Loss of home, wife and friends, eye disease, febrile illness, toothache, heart disease, rectal 
disease, fear of drowning, fall from a tree, extreme mental anguish. 



Sun 

Favourable: 

Favoms from the employer, increased wealth, acquisition of vehicles, cows and comforts. 
Adverse: 

Heart disease, mental distress, loss of residential place, separation from dear ones, febrile 
illness. 
Moon 

Favourable: 

Favours from the ruler, acquisition of vehicles, garments and ornaments, prosperity, 
comforts to mother, father and wife. 

Adverse: 
King's wrath, loss of wealth, separation from parents, illness to children, untimely food, 
necessity to take medicinal remedies, excessive somnolence, increase of opponents. 
Mars 
Favourable: 

Gain of wealth, command of an army, favours from the ruler, benefits from lands and 
cattle, building of a new house, benefits from siblings. 

Adverse: 
Danger from thieves, serpents, accidents and weapons, joint pains, troubles to father and 
brother, loss of cattle, unclean food, untimely death. 

Rahu 
Favourable: 

Gain of wealth, lands and houses, pilgrimage, auspicious celebrations, increased glory, 
favours from the ruler, physical comforts. 

Note: Rahu here is particularly beneficial if located in Mesha, Vrisha, Karka, Simha, 
Kanya or Meena. 
Adverse: 

Discord with others, mental torment, physical illness, discord with children, foreign 
residence, loss of houses and lands. 
Jupiter 

Favourable: 
Accomplishment of all undertakings, honour from the ruler, acquiSII!on of wealth and 
jewellery, devotion toward God and guru, association with the learned, benefits to wife 
and son, study of scriptures, religious inclination, great renown and glory. 

Adverse: 



Loss of near and dear ones, loss of wealth, foreign travel, obstacles to profession, unclean 
food, physical and mental ailments, imprisonment, death of a near relative. 



Antardashas in the Mahadasha of MERCURY 

Mercury 
Favourable: 
Acquisition of precious stones, learning, high education, name and fame, honours from 
the ruler, comforts to wife, son, mother and father. 
Adverse: 
Loss of cattle and wealth, opposition from near and dear ones, abdominal pain, mental 
anguish, death of a near relative. 
Ketn 
Favourable: 
Physical comforts, good health and wealth, gainful journey, acquisition of learning, 
spread offame, favours from the ruler. 
Adverse: 
Fall off a vehicle, trouble from thieves and the king, sinful acts, scorpion stings, discord 
with low people, illness and misery. 
Venus 
Favourable: 
Virtuous and religious pursuits, help from friends and the employer, gain of wealth, 
favours from the ruler, sudden and unexpected gains, profit in business, charitable 
inclination. 
Adverse: 
Heart disease, loss of face, febrile illness, separation from dear ones, mental torment, 
untimely death. 
Sun 
Favourable: 
King's grace, gain of lands, increase in wealth, good food and clothes. 
Adverse: 
Troubles from thieves, fire, weapons and excess of Pitta, headache, mental torment, 
separation from a dear friend, untimely death. 
Moon 
Favourable: 
Comforts from wife and children, acqmsltlon of a new home, good food, inclination 
toward song and music, indulgence in sacred learning, southward journey, acquisition of 
clothes in a distant land, gain of pearls, pilgrimage, stability of mind, earnings from a 
foreign land. 



Adverse: 
Physical and mental torment, humiliation through association with women, fear from 
thieves, fire and the king, loss of wealth. 
Mars 
Favourable: 
Peace at home, gain of wealth, recovery of lost wealth and status, acquisition of lands, 
houses and vehicles, comforts to wife and children, good health, name and fame. 
Adverse: 
Physical and mental illness, fall in status, loss of wealth, joint pains, fevers, injuries, 
accidents, king's displeasure, displacement from home, untimely death. 
Rahu 
Favourable: 
Respect from others, excessive gain in wealth, bath in sacred waters, religious rituals. 
Note: Rahu is particularly favourable in Vrisha, Karka, Kanya and Kumbha. 
Adverse: 
Loss of wealth, displacement from home, physical illness, mental anguish, imprisonment, 
heart disease, untimely death. 
Jupiter 
Favourable: 
Gain ofwealth, association with the ruler, marriage, good food, listening to sacred texts, 
devotion to gods and guru, charitable disposition. 
Adverse: 
Discord with the ruler, physical hurt from thieves, etc., death of parents, loss of wealth, 
punishment by the ruler, discord with wife and children, ill health and disease. 
Saturn 
Favourable: 
Rise in status, great enthusiasm, good house, pilgrimages. 
Adverse: 
Intense trouble, loss of discriminative faculty, troubles to wife and child, fall in 
professional status, foreign travel, bad dreams, untimely death. 



Antardashas in the Mahadasha of KETU 

Ketu 
Favourable: 
Gain of wealth and cattle, king's favours, good for progeny, acquisition of lands, 
villages, houses, etc. 
Note: Favourable disposition of Ketu notwithstanding, Ketu AD in its own MD causes 
some mental tension. 
Adverse: 
Heart disease, humiliation, loss ofwealth and cattle, fickleness of mind, ill health and loss 
of dear ones. 
Venus 
Favourable: 
King's favours, sudden gain in wealth, recovery of lost wealth and status, acquisition of 
vehicles, baths in holy waters, oceans, etc., lordship over lands and villages, good health, 
variedcomforts. 
Adverse: 
Sudden quarrels, loss of wealth and cattle, head and eye disease, heart ailment, 
humiliation, physical and mental torment. 
Sun 
Favourable: 
Gain of wealth, glory through the king, auspiciOus happenings, accomplishment of 
desired objects, good health, mental stability, lordship over small villages. 
Adverse: 
Fear from the ruler, loss of parents, foreign travel, fear of snakes and thieves, accidental 
injury, punishment from the ruler, loss of wealth, untimely death. 
Moon 
Favourable: 
Favours from the king, great enthusiasm, gain of lands and houses, gains from 
profession, acquisition of vehicles, inclination towards virtuous deeds, visit by a dear 
friend, accomplishment of one's undertakings, foreign travel, good health. 
Adverse: 
Mental anguish, obstruction in undertakings, separation from parents, loss of cattle, 
unfounded apprehensions, untimely death. 
Mars 
Favourable: 



Benefits from village, lands and cattle, rise in status through the king. 
Adverse: 
Fear of untimely death, misery in a foreign country, troubles from thieves and the ruler, 
urinary ailment, diabetes, fear of febrile illness and poisoning. 
Rahu 
Favourable: 
Sudden excessive wealth gain, gains from a mlechchha ruler, acquisition of lands, houses 
and villages. 
Adverse: 
Excessive urination, physical debility, fever with chills and rigors, poisoning, sudden 
calamities. 
Jupiter 
Favourable: 
Gain of wealth, enhanced enthusiasm, prosperity, grand celebration, foreign visits, help 
to near and dear ones. 
Adverse: 
Fear from thieves, serpents and accidental injuries, separation from wife and children, 
displacement, untimely death. 
Saturn 
Favourable: 
Accomplishment of all undertakings, victory in war, many comforts. 
Adverse: 
Physical and mental torment, loss of wealth and cattle, unfounded fears, displacement 
from home, fear of theft in journey, laziness, humiliation, loss of parents, untimely death. 
Mercury 
Favourable: 
Gain in status, listening to holy scriptures, undertaking charities, religious pursuits, 
acquisition of lands and progeny, desirable association, increased fortune, good health, 
good food, gains in business, pilgrimages. 
Adverse: 
Residence in others' houses, loss of wealth, vehicles and garments, illness to wife and 
child, fear from the king, untimely death. 



Antardashas in the Mahadasha of VENUS 

Venus 
Favourable: 
Wealth gain through the help of Brahmins, son's marriage, favours from the king, 
building a new house, good and sweet food, indulgence in charities and religious 
pursuits, acquisition of cattle, vehicles and garments, westward journey, great enthusiasm. 

Adverse: 

Fear from thieves and injuries, loss of dear ones, illness to wife and child, death. 
Sun 
Favourable: 
Gain of wealth, acqutsiiion of wife, lordship and property, visit by a dear friend, 
comforts to mother, father and brother. 

Adverse: 
Febrile illness, mental anguish, discord with dear ones, trouble to father, injuries, snake 
bites, physical illness. 
Moon 
Favourable: 

Varied gains, renown and glory, bath in sacred rivers, devotion to gods and Brahmins, 
indulgence in song and music, increase of cattle, lordship over village or town. 
Adverse: 

Loss of wealth, phobias, mental torment, foreign travel, discord in place of work, 
separation from dear ones. 

Mars 
Favourable: 

Prosperity through the king, profits from vehicles, lands and precious stones. 
Adverse: 
Trouble to parents, febrile illness, excessive expenditure, loss in business. 

Rahu 

Favourable: 
Great physical comforts, gain of wealth, fulfilment of undertakings, loss of enemies, great 
enthusiasm. 

Adverse: 

Obstacles to one's pursuits, mental anguish, ill health to parents, excessive laziness. 



Jupiter 
Favourable: 
Recovery of lost status, gain of wealth, honour from the ruler, indulgence in the study of 
sacred texts, son's marriage, good for parents and siblings. 
Adverse: 
Troubles from thieves and the ruler, physical illness, mental torment, displacement 
leading to foreign residence. 
Saturn 
Favourable: 
Association with friends and relatives, honour from the ruler, daughter's birth, 
pilgrimage, religious inclination, rise in professional status. 
Adverse: 
Excessive expenditure, bodily disease, illness to wife and child, aimless wandering, loss 
of cattle. 
Mercury 
Favourable: 
King's favours, good fortune, birth of a son, earnings through legitimate means, listening 
to sacred scriptures, artistic pursuits, good and sweet food. 
Adverse: 
Loss of cattle, residence in other's house, mental torment, losses in undertakings, physical 
disease. 
Ketu 
Favourable: 
Good food, excessive profit in business, increase of cattle, gain in wealth, victory in war. 
Adverse: 
Troubles from thieves, serpents and injury, loss of discriminative ability, headache, 
mental distress, quarrelsome nature, loss of wealth, opposition from wife and child, 
obstacle to profession, and physical disease. 



INTERPRETATION OF THE PRA1YANTARDASHA (PD) 

An appropriate use ofPD helps in making accurate predictions with a close timing. 
The good and the bad results of a PD depend on similar factors on which the results of 
AD depend. Thus the PD of an exalted or strong or beneficially disposed planet produces 
good results. A weak or afflicted planet on the other hand produces adverse results. The 
promise of an AD manifests in an appropriate PD. The results of various Praty-
antardashas under the several Antardashas are being briefly presented below, chiefly 
based on Parashara's dicta. These results must be modified according to the disposition of 
the PD lord as well as its house-lordship. 



I. PD's in the AD of the SUN 

Sun: Loss of wealth, headache, trouble to wife. 
Moon: Mental anguish, loss of wealth, quarrels. 
Mars: Fear from foes and fire, imprisonment. 
Rahu: Fear from foes, phobias, loss of wealth. 
Jupiter: Annihilation of foes, great glory, acquisition of vehicles. 
Saturn: Mental anguish, serious illness, loss of cattle. 
Mercury: Acquisition of learning, gain of wealth, religious inclination. 
Ketu: Danger to life, substantial loss, torment through enemy. 
Venus: Ordinary gains, nothing extraordinary. 



II. PO's in the AD of the MOON 

Moon: Prosperity, royal favours, pleasures from women. 
Mars: Gain of wealth and wisdom, fear from foes. 
Rahu: Gain ofwealth, untimely death. 
Jupiter: Great renown, higher learning, gain of wealth. 
Saturn: Physical illness, loss of wealth, humiliation. 
Mercury: Birth of a son, learning, great fame. 
Ketu: Discord with Brahmins, untimely death. 
Venus: Prosperity, birth of a daughter, good food. 
Sun: Loss of enemies, dominance all round. 



Ill. PD's in the AD of MARS 

Mars: Fear from foes, frightening opposition, danger of death. 
Rahu: Loss ofwealth, bad food, imprisonment. 
Jupiter: Loss of discrimination, mental torment, failures. 
Saturn: Quarrels, distress, loss of wealth. 
Mercury: Loss ofwisdom, loss ofwealth, loss offriends. 
Ketu: Headache, bodily illness, untimely death. 
Venus: Trouble from 'Chandala' (the out-caste), risk of injury, gastroenteritis. 
Sun: Gain of lands and friends, mental peace. 
Moon: Gains from southern direction, acquisition of white clothes and ornaments. 



IV. PD's in the AD of RAHU 

Rahu: Imprisonment, illness. 
Jupiter: Name and fame, acquisition of wealth and vehicles. 
Saturn: Incarceration, loss of physical comforts. 
Mercury: Gain through wife, success in foreign lands. 
Ketu: Loss of discrimination, unnecessary obstacles. 
Venus: Unfounded fears (fears of the 'Yoginis'), tragic events. 
Sun: Bodily illness, carelessness, untimely death. 
Moon: Mental distress, phobias, illness to father. 
Mars: Peri-anal inflammation, mental anguish, blood disorders. 



V. PD's in the AD of .JUPITER 

Jupiter: Much wealth, auspicious events. 
Saturn: Gain of wealth and kine, means of comfort. 
Mercury: Learning, wealth, visits by dear friends. 
Ketu: Fear of drowning or imprisonment, untimely death. 
Venus: Learning, several means of pleasure. 
Sun: Gains from father, mother, friend and the king. 
Moon: End of all miseries, success in undertakings. 
Mars: Injuries by weapons, indigestion. 
Rahu: Trouble from 'Chandala', loss ofwealth, illness. 



VI. PD's in the AD of SATURN 

Saturn: Bodily illness, quarrels, miseries. 
Mercury: Loss of discrimination, loss of wealth, fear from foes. 
Ketu: Confinement by the enemy, morbid fear, mental anguish. 
Venus: Acquisition of the object of desire. 
Sun: Rise in status, quarrel at home, illness. 
Moon: Great undertakings, excessive expenditure, sexual relations with several women. 
Mars: Injury to the son, fear from fire and foe. 
Rahu: Loss of wealth and lands, foreign travel, death. 
Jupiter: Troubles at home, mental distress. 



VII. PD's in the AD of MERCURY 

Mercury: Learning, wealth and comforts. 
Ketu: Unclean food, abdominal and eye disease. 
Venus: Gains in the northern direction, rise in professional status, losses from cattle. 
Sun: Loss ofhealth, loss of mental poise. 
Moon: Gain of woman and wealth, birth of a daughter. 
Mars: Gain ofwealth and wisdom, fear from thieves, fire and weapons. 
Rahu: Discord with women, sudden fears, injury from weapon. 
Jupiter: Royal status, excessive learning. 
Saturn: Bodily injury, loss ofwealth. 



VIII. PD's in the AD ofKETU 

Ketu: Sudden calamity, foreign travel, loss of wealth. 
Venus: Fear from mlechchhas, eye disease, headache. 
Sun: Opposition to friends, defeat, untimely death. 
Moon: Loss of discrimination, humiliation, illness. 
Mars: Injury from falls, fire or weapon. 
Rahu: Trouble from women, dominance by enemies. 
Jupiter: Loss of wealth, sudden calamity, varied losses. 
Saturn: Death of friends, bodily disease. 
Mercury: Loss of discrimnation, mental distress, morbid fears. 



IX. PD's in the AD of VENUS 

Venus: Gain of pearls, white clothes and pretty women. 
Sun: Febrile illness, troubles from foes and the ruler. 
Moon: Birth of a daughter, gain in wealth and status. 
Mars: Injury in a brawl, blood disorders. 
Rahu: Discord with women, sudden fear. 
Jupiter: Gain ofhigh status, vehicles and precious stones. 
Saturn: Gain of beasts of burden (donkeys, camels, etc.), and of dark coloured objects 
(iron, black pulses, etc.). 
Mercury: Gain of wealth and learning, rise in status. 
Ketu: Displacement from one country to the other, fearful untimely death. 

The results of PO's in the various AD's must be applied only judiciously. Where 
good results are described, they are modified favourably or adversely by benefic or 
malefic association or aspect. Similarly, bad results too get substantially modified. Planets 
also produce results according to the houses they own. This latter factor must obtain 
primary concern when the above mentioned results are being applied to individual charts. 



... XVI. .. 

Balarishta and Arishta Bhanga 

~ t 1a s {hu fcbf-a e.W dr  ~ ii 11 "9 H C1 ac nfu 1C fll tftFrr 1 
'8aJ~fu ~ ~~IR{itra~ f~~~ m ~ -=r treln 

A little study ofthe Bhagvad Gita, drinking a drop of water of 
the Ganga, a casual worship of Murari (Lord Krishna) - these 
will save you from debate with Death. 

Bhaja Govindam, Verse 20 

By Arishta is meant a misery of any sort. Balarishta indicates misfortune that befalls 
a native during his infancy and childhood. Since the misfortune of a newborn baby can 
primarily be in terms of his physical health, the term Balarishta is used to indicate ill 
health soon after birth. Arishta is thus an affliction in the horoscopic chart. Classical 
astrologers stress that before pronouncing results of any benefic yogas or favourable 
dasha periods, an assessment must be made in respect of the presence or absence of 
combinations for Balarishta in a horoscope. 



Balarishta: Death in Childhood?. 

Classical writers on astrology, while mentioning about Balarishta, almost invariably 
indicate that combinations for Balarishta lead to untimely death in childhood. Because of 
a literal application of the classical dicta, this term has come to mean a certain death in the 
presence of such combinations in the horoscopic chart. It has been repeatedly stressed 
here that a literal application of astrological dicta heralds failure in predictions, and is not 
called for. Balarishta must be understood to indicate an affliction inthe horoscopic chart 
which can lead to ill health but not necessarily death. Recognition of a Balarishta 
combination calls for caution regarding the health of the native. Death occurs only if the 
affliction is intense and protective factors inadequate. 



Uncertainitv during the first twelve years 

All classical writers, from Parashara downwards, are of the opinion that it is not 
generally possible to work out the span of life of a child upto the age of twelve years. 
During this time period, the child can suffer because of reasons that the horoscopic chart 
may not easily reveal. The newborn child can thus die anytime: 
(a) During the first four years of his life, because of the Papa-karmas (or sinful deeds) of 
his mother. 
(b) From the fourth to the eighth year of life, because ofthe Papa-karmas ofhis father. 
(c) From the eighth year to the twelfth year oflife, because of his own past Papa-karmas. 
This concept stresses on the following factors: 
(a) A law of cause and effect operates in our destinies. Our karmas, which broadly means 
the sum total of our physical and mental functions, provide the basis for our destiny. We 
all manufacture our own destinies through our karmas. 
(b) A child birth is not a chance occurrence of a sporadic nature. It is a manifestation of a 
continuous process. The nature of birth, the circumstances where it occurs, and the 
benetTc and malefic factors attendant upon it, all have their origin in past life or lives. The 
concept of re-incarnation or life after life is thus inherent in Vedic astrology. 
(c) Vedic astrology also recognises the law of inter-related destinies. The actions of our 
near and dear ones too affect us considerably. Thus, the past actions of one's mother and 
father too influence one's survival in early childhood. Death during the first eight years 
of life may result from the karmas of one's parents. Only after the first eight years would 
this influence of parents wear off. Those who know astrology can appreciate how 
marvellously the destinies of people belonging to one group or family are inter-related. 

It is because of the above-mentioned reasons that classical writers prohibit making 
any predictions about children under the age of twelve years. The chart can, however, be 
examined in respect of Balarishta so that appropriate remedial measures to neutralise 
Balarishta can be initiated. 



Arishta-Bhane:a 

This means a cancellation of Balarishta or of the affliction. While Balarishta is like a 
lethal missile, Arishta-Bhanga acts as an anti-missile. In the presence of an Arishta-
Bhanga, a Balarishta gets neutralised. It is thus important not to opine about a Balarishta 
in a horoscopic chart without at the same time recognising an Arishta-Bhanga. 

It must, however, be appreciated that an Arishta-Bhanga presupposes the existence 
of an Arishta in the first place. There is an affliction in the chart along with its 
cancellation. The ultimate outcome will depend upon how complete is the cancellation. 
Very often there is only a qualitative improvement and not a complete neutralisation of 
the affliction. The classical texts sometimes attribute decidedly positive and favourable 
results to an Arishta-Bhanga combination. This may not hold true in actual practice. 



Astrological Principles 

Thousands of astrological combinations indicating Balarishta and Arishta-Bhanga 
are available in astrological texts. Instead of remembering all those combinations, it is 
important to understand the underlying astrological principles. 
I. The disposition of the Moon: The disposition of the Moon in a horoscopic chart has 
important bearing on the health of a newborn. An afflicted or ill-placed Moon is a factor 
causing Balarishta and, unless adequately neutralised by benefic influences, may lead to 
early death of the child. 
2. The strength of the lagna: A strong lagna, and a strong and well placed lagna lord, 
indicate sound health. When the lagna and the lagna lord are weak and under malefic 
influence, the health of the native suffers. 
3. The kendras: Occupation of the four kendras (houses I, 4, 7 and 10) by benetTcs is a 
strong factor indicating good health. When malefics occupy the kendras, the health 
suffers. Malefics particularly concentrating on the lfl axis from the lagna or the Moon 
cause early death after birth. 
4. The Eighth house: Benefic influences on the eighth house or the eighth lord ensure 
good health. Malefic influences indicate the reverse. When malefics concentrate in the 
eighth house, longevity suffers. An exception to the general rule is the presence of Saturn 
in the eighth house which ensures good health and long life. 
5. Dashas and transits: Several classical combinations of Balarishta categorically stress 
upon the actual time when death is supposed to befall a native having a particular adverse 
combination in his horoscope. That may be true in several instances. But it will be seen 
from actual horoscopes that the Balarishta combinations too follow the principles of 
dashas and transits. Often it is an adverse dasha, combined with an adverse transit, which 
precipitates the effects of an erstwhile quiescent adverse combination. Balarishta 
combinations thus indicate inherent weaknesses which manifest, sometimes later in life, 
when the appropriate dasha/transit come into play. 

The classical combinations for Balarishta and Arishta-Bhanga are being reproduced 
here from the Essentials of Medical Astrology by the author. 



Classical Combinations for Balarishta 

As has been pointed out earlier, there are numerous combinations for Arishta as 
described in the astrological classics. Below are mentioned some of these, particularly 
taken from Parashara 
and Varahamihira, and a few from the generally not available Sri Ranbir 
Jyotirmahanibandha. The strong language of the combinations is retained, with a 
repeated warning to the reader that 'death' in these combinations must be taken to mean 
affliction or illness. 
I. The location of the Moon in houses 6, 8 or 12, aspected by malefics, causes death soon 
after birth. 

Note: 
(a)When only benefics aspect such a Moon, death occurs in eight years. 
(b )Combined aspect of malefics and benefics causes death within four years. 
(c)No affliction ensues if the Moon in the said houses is unaspected. 

2. Retrograde benefics in houses 6, 8 or 12, aspected by malefics, cause death as does the 
Moon in such a situation. 

Note: 
(a)Benefics in houses 6 or 8 aspected by a retrograde malefic, unaspected by any 
benefics, are said to cause death within one month of birth. 
(b )Lagna unaspected by any benefics also leads to death within one month of 
birth. This is a very general combination. 

3. Birth at the time of sunrise or sunset in the Moon's Hora or in Gandanta (i.e., the end 
of the signs Karka, Vrischika or Meena, or the beginning of the signs Mesha, Simha or 
Dhanu), with the Moon and malefics in quadrants indicates death of the newborn. 

Note: Death ensues soon after birth in case of a birth in the evening, in the Moon's 
Hora, with malefics in Rashyanta (at the end - i.e., 29 degrees and more - of a 
sign) associated with the Moon in one of the kendras. 

4. Lagna lord defeated in planetary warfare by a malefic, and posited in the 7th house, 
leads to death within a month of birth. Two planets are said to be at war when they are 
located within one degree; the one that is the farther advanced of the two is considered 
subjugated. 
5. Placement of the Moon and all malefics in quadrants leads to death of the newborn. 

Note: 
(a)A weak Moon in lagna and malefics in quadrants and 8th house cause death 
soon after birth. 
(b)The Moon associated with malefics, unaspected by benefics, in the lagna or in 
the houses 7, 8 or 12 leads to early death. 
(c)Death also ensues soon after birth in the case of a weak Moon, in signs other 



than Mesha, Vrisha and Karka, posited in the ascendant and aspected by malefics. 
6.0ne is bereft of any longevity in the case ofKarka or Vrischika rising, with all malefics 
placed in the eastern half (houses I 0 to 4) and all benefics in the western half (houses 4 to 
10) ofthe zodiac. 

Note: This may be called as the Vajra-Mushti Yoga. According to one reading, this 
yoga arises in case of Vrischika ascendant, when all malefics are located in houses I 
to 7, and all benefics in houses 7 to I. 

7.The Moon in houses 4, 7 or 8, or in lagna, hemmed between malefics, unaspected by 
strong benefics, leads to early death. 

Note: 
(a)Lagna hemmed between two malefics, and malefics placed in houses 12, 6, 8 or 
2 lead to certain death. That is to say that malefics around the lagna and the seventh 
house - the ascendant and the descendant- are bad for longevity. 
(b )Malefics in houses 2 and 12 from lagna, or in 6 and 8 from lagna, unaspected 
by benefics, cause death in the 6th or 8th month oflife. 

8.The Moon in lagna, with malefics in the 7th house causes early death. 
9.Retrograde Saturn in Mesha or Vrischika in the 6th or the 8th house or in a quadrant, 
aspected by a strong Mars, leads to death within two years. 
10.The Moon in lagna, Saturn in the 12th house, the Sun in the 9th house and Mars in 
the 8th house, with Jupiter bereft of power, leads to death soon after birth. 
11.Mars, Saturn and the Sun together in the 6th or the 8th house lead to certain death 
within one month, even though Yarna (the god of death) may attempt to protect the 
native. 
12A malefic in the sixth or the eighth house, aspected by another malefic, causes death 
within one year despite 'AmritaPaan' (i.e., consumption of the elixir of life). 

Note: This combination, as well as the preceding one, despite very strong assertion 
in the texts, should not be taken literally. 

13. Venus in Karka or Sirnha, in the 6th or the 12th house, aspected by malefics causes 
death by the age of 6 years. 
14.Mercury in Karka in the 6th or 8th house, aspected by the Moon leads to death by 4 
years of age. 
15.Rahu in a quadrant, aspected by malefics, causes death by 10 years or 16 years of age. 
16.Any of the malefic Drekkanas rising in the lagna, associated with or aspected by 
malefics, unaspected by its own lord, leads to death within 7 years. 

Note: Malefic Drekkanas are: 
(a)Sarpa Drekkanas: the 2nd and 3rd of Karka, the 1st and second of Vrischika, 
and the last of Meena. 
(b )Pasha Drekkanas: the 1st of Vrisha, Sirnha as well as Kumbha, the 2nd and 3rd 



of Tula, and the I stand last of Makara. 
17.Birthat the time of solar or lunar eclipse (i.e., the Rahu-Ketu axis on the Sun and the 
Moon), and lagna aspected by Saturn and Mars, causes death of the native within a 
fortnight. 
18.Ail planets weak, in Apoklima rashis, lead to death by 6 months or by 2 months. 
19 .A waning Moon in twelfth house from the lagna, and all malefics in the lagna and the 
8th house, with no benefics in kendras, lead to death soon after birth. 
20.The Sun, Mars and Saturn in the lagna and a weak Moon in the 6th or the 7th house 
under Jupiter's aspect: Death in 7 years. 
21.Malefic lagna lord in the Navamsha ofthe Moon, in the 12th house from the Moon, 
aspected by malefics: Death in 9 years. 
22.Benefics in the visible half of the chart and malefics in the invisible half, with Rahu in 
the lagna: Death in 5 years. 

Note: See the Vajra-Mushti yoga under combination '6' mentioned above. 
23.Rahu in the 7th house, aspected by the Sun and the Moon, unaspected by benefics: 
Death in 12 years. 



Affliction to Mother 

l.Saturn in the lOth house, the Moon in the 6th house and Mars in the 7th house, is a 
combination for the death of the newborn along with its mother. 
2.The Moon hemmed between malefics, in the lagna, with malefics occupying the 7th or 
the 8th house causes death of the native along with its mother. 
3. The Moon aspected by three malefics indicates death of the mother. 

Note: Benefic aspects relieve the affliction. 
4.The Moon in the 7th or 8th house from a malefic, associated with a malefic, and 
aspected by a strong malefic: Death of mother. 
5.Exalted or debilitated Sun in the 7th house: The child is deprived of its mother's milk 
and survives on goat milk. 
6.Malefics in the lagna, the 2nd house, the 12th house and the 7th house, lead to 
destruction of the native's family. 
7 .Malefics in the 5th or the 9th from a weak Moon: Death of mother within 6 months of 
the birth of the native. 
8.Birth at the time of eclipse, the Moon associated with malefics and posited in the lagna, 
and Mars located in the 8th house: Death of the native along with his mother, due to 
weapon (? surgical instrument!). 



Affliction to Father 

l.Saturn in lagna, Mars in the 7th house and the Moon in the 6th house: Death of father. 
2.Jupiter in Iagna, the Sun, Saturn, Mars and Mercury in second house: Father's death at 
the time of native's marriage. 
3.The Sun associated with, or hemmed between, malefics, and malefic(s) in the 7th house 
from the Sun: Death offather. 
4.Mars in the lOth house in an inimical sign indicates death of father. 
5.The Sun in the Navamsha of Mars, aspected by Saturn: The father leaves home or dies 
before the birth of the native. 
6.Rahu and Jupiter in the Iagna or the 4th or the 6th house: Death of father in 23rd year 
of the native. 
7 .lfthe Sun is associated with or aspected by malefics, or hemmed between malefics, the 
father ofthe native undergoes suffering (and death!). 
8.Affliction of the 6th and the 8th houses from the Sun by malefics, without benefic 
aspect: Affliction to father. 

Note: When the Moon is so affected, the mother of the native is subject to Arishta. 



Time of Fructification of Arishta Y ogas 

In the several combinations causing Arishta to the newborn, the time of death (or 
suffering) has been indicated. Where such has not been indicated, the time of death may 
be ascertained from: 
(a)transit of the Moon over the strongest of the planets causing affliction; or 
(b )transit of the Moon over the natal Moon; or 
(c)transit of the Moon over the ascendant. 

When the transiting Moon is itself afflicted, the adverse event comes to pass. The 
sages say that death in these cases may be expected within one year. 



Classical Combinations for Arishta Bhanga 

Once again, the main sources for these classical combinations are Parashara and 
Varahamihira. In addition, some material has been taken from the Sri Ranbir 
Jyotirmahanibandha and the "Mansagari". All these combinations must be applied 
judiciously and not literally. It is best to integrate these combinations with the operating 
dashas in order to obtain the best results. 
I. Jupiter alone, in strength, posited in lagna destroys all evil. 

Note: A strong Jupiter in the lagna is considered the most potent single factor in 
overcoming planetary afflictions. It has been said that Mercury in lagna overcomes 
one thousand defects; Venus in a similar situation overcomes ten thousand 
blemishes; Jupiter in lagna takes care of a hundred thousand afflictions in the 
horoscopic chart. 

2. Any of the strong Mercury, Jupiter and Venus when located in one of the quadrants 
(houses I, 4, 7 or 10) destroys all Arishta. 
3. Strong lagna lord in a quadrant removes planetary afflictions. 
4. A strong lagna lord unaspected by malefics, and aspected by benefics in quadrants, 
destroys all affliction and provides progressively increasing prosperity and long life. 
5. The Moon in the 6th or the 8th house becomes a protector of the native born during 
daytime (from sunrise to sunset) in Krishna Paksha (the waning phase of the Moon), or 
during night time (from sunset to sunrise) in Shukla Paksha (the waxing phase of the 
Moon). 
6.Ail planets located in Sheershodaya signs (signs 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 and II) at the time of birth 
remove affliction. 
7. Rahu in the 3rd or the 6th or the II th house aspected by a benefic removes affliction 
instantaneously. Arishtas also vanish if Rahu is located in signs Mesha, Vrisha or Karka 
coinciding with the lagna. 
8. Malefics located in the vargas (signs in the divisional charts) of benefics, aspected by 
benefics which are themselves in benefic vargas: ln this situation too, afflictions 
disappear. 
9. When the rising sign belongs to a benefic, the benefics in the chart are strong, and the 
malefics are weak, Arishtas tend to disappear. 
10. All Arishtas disappear when the Moon, though located in the 6th or the 8th house, is 
in the Drekkana of Mercury or Jupiter or Venus. 
II. Afflictions get cancelled when malefics are surrounded by benefics, and the benefics 
are located in quadrants or trines. 
12. Lagna lord in the lagna aspected by all other planets removes affliction. Similarly full 
Moon aspected by all the other planets neutralises affliction. 
13. Benefics in houses 6, 7 and 8 unassociated with malefics remove affliction. 

Note: This forms a benefic Lagnadhi Yoga which is highly protective; it is 



comparable to a Chandradhi Yoga which too is beneficial. 
14. A strong lagna lord in the II th house or 3rd house or a quadrant removes affliction, 
ensures good health and promises long life. 
15. Full Moon, hemmed between benefics, removes affliction. 1t becomes particularly 
beneficial if also aspected by Venus. 
16. The Sun in the 12th house for Libra ascendant ensures a longevity for a hundred 
years. 
17. Jupiter-Mars conjunction or the aspect of Jupiter on Mars cancels all affliction and is 
favourable for the native's mother. 

Note: This is too general. 1t is important to keep in mind the houses involved in this 
combination and the houses owned by Jupiter and Mars in relation to a given 
lagna. 

18. Malefics in houses 4 or 10, hemmed between benefics, and the benefics located in 
quadrants or trines: This situation proves auspicious for the father of the native. 
19. Great afflictions vanish when a full Moon is exalted or in its own house, in the vargas 
of friendly planets or in its own varga, aspected by benefics and unaspected by malefics. 
20. The location of Jupiter in Karka or Dhanu or in Meena, and in lagna or a quadrant or 
a trine, removes affliction. 
21 . When there are several benefic yo gas in a horoscope, they remove affliction. 
Examples 

Chart XVl-1 shows a typical situation of Balarishta with the Moon located in the 
eighth house, associated with a malefic eighth lord. The lagna receives the aspects of an 
adverse sixth lord Saturn and a retrograde (hence adverse!) Jupiter. The lagna lord is 
afflicted by association with the twelfth lord, the Sun, although its condition improves in 
the Navamsha. 



l\brs Jupiter 
i\loon (R) 

Rahu 
Chart XVl-1 

Sun Jan. 15, 1tJS9 
i'vlcn:ury Kcw 

I::V 
\'cnus 
S;nurn L:1~11a 

l.a~na 3"30' 1\hrs 4.1 8' Venus 12"30' 
Su~ no· i\ lcrcurv 18 "1 0' Santrn 13"38' 
i\·loon 16"20' Ju pitcr .( R) 2"25' lt1hu 11"39' 

l\·brs l\lcr\."urr 

'f" 
Lagna Venus 

Kc:tu 
Navamsha 

Sun 
Jupiter ;\loon 
Rahu Saturn 

It may be noted that the child was born during night time (Sun in the fifth house!) 
and in Shukla paksha (the Moon in the fourth house from the Sun!). This is a 
combination for Arishta-Bhanga. The child survived his affliction but is mentally 
retarded. The affliction has had its effect markedly reduced. Thus there has been a 
qualitative improvement but no complete cancellation of affliction. 

The lagna in Chart XVI-2 falls in a malefic Drekkana (second Drekkana of sign 
Karka), whose lord is debilitated and aspected by a malefic Saturn (see the Drekkana 
chart). The Drekkana lord does not aspect it (i.e., the Drekkana lagna). The child died 
within seven days of birth. It may be seen that in the Rashi chart, the Moon is afflicted by 



the sixth lord, the eighth lord, and a debilitated, functionally malefic, Venus. Malefics 
(except Saturn) occupy the kendras and the trikonas. The only benefic in a kendra (the 
fourth house) is a functionally malefic, retrograde and combust (hence weak) Mercury, 
who also happens to be the lord of the 22nd Drekkana. An exchange between the fourth 
and the sixth lords (indicating a proneness to accidents!) in the Navamsha ensured a 
surgical intervention before his death; the lagna lord in the fourth is associated with the 
eighth lord also. 

if' 
Lagn;l 

Chart XVI-2 lbhu 

No\', 4, 1980 
Kctu 

I\ loon 
l\l:m Sun 

:\h:r(R) JupVcn 
Saturn 

Lagn;~ 14'28' l\hrs 23'25' Venus 12' 46' 
Sun IW51' l\lcrcun· (R) 15'51' S;ltllrn 11'41' 
l\ loon 6'29' Jupiter. i'57' Rahu 22'17' 

R1hu 

Sun 
i\·lcnu.:ry :\lus 

Drckk01na 
Venus 
Saturn 

7' l\loon 
Lagna Jupiter 

Kctu 



Sun Venus 
Jupiter Saturn 
Moon 
Mars Ketu 

Merucry 
Navamsha 

Rahu 

19' 
Lagna 

That the principles of Balarishta can be applied to horoscopic charts, in later life 
also, is examplified in Chart XVI-3 where the location of the Moon in the eighth house 
indicates a typical Balarishta situation. Birth during night time, in Shukla paksha, ensures 
cancellation of affliction, while a strong Jupiter, aspecting the Iagna from the fifth house, 
takes away a lot of blemish from malefic occupation of the kendras. Besides, the presence 
of an exalted Mars, the Iagna lord, in the third house is an additional favourable factor 
for health. 

Jupiter Rahu Moon 

Mer(R) 
Sun Chart XVI-3 

Mars March 1, 1928 
Vcnu~ 

~Lagna 
Saturn 
Kcm 

Lagna 5'28' Mars 9'03' Venus 17'04' 
Sun 18*05' Mercury (R) 5'50' Saturn 25*41' 
Moon 21 *18' Jupiter 15'11' Rahu 21'38' 



Venus Sun 

Moon Ketu 
Merucry jupiter 

Drckk:ma Saturn 

Mars 
Rahu 

{' 

l.agna 

Sun 
Mars Moon Venus 

Saturn Rahu 
Navamsha ?I 

Ketu l.agna 

Mercury 
Jupiter 

The native died in the Vimshottari dasha of Venus-Moon at the age of sixty-two 
years. Venus is a maraka associated with Mars and aspected by Saturn. The Moon is 
located in the eighth house. It happens to be the lord of the 64th Navamsha and is 
associated with the lord of the 22nd Drekkana (Mercury) in the Drekkana chart. The 
birth here happens in an adverse Drekkana but the Drekkana lord is exalted and aspected 
by an exalted Jupiter. Natural benefics occupy the kendras in the Drekkana chart. 



... XVII ... 

Placement of Lords of Houses 

flcht: 4 lfUIQI~ d("flt:i~IS"fa:lf~l{l!fl51'"Q 
'8 cl d : ~fd l4 ffip:f; '8 ;:1 +i I'=;! 6£:1 ffl EG fff II 

With his hands and feet everywhere, with eyes, heads and faces 
on all sides, with ears on all sides, He dwells in the world, 
enveloping all. 

Gita Xlll/13 

Just as different houses of a horoscope govern specific areas of an individual's life, 
so also do the various planets on account of their being the lords of those houses. For 
example, the first house or the lagna governs the body or the health of the individual. 
Various aspects relating to a person's body and health are, consequently,judged from the 
lord of the lagna. Similarly, matters pertaining to wealth are judged from the second 
house as well as its lord, or those pertaining to the siblings from the third house and the 
third lord, and so on. 

Placement of the lord of a house in any of the twelve houses has specific relevance 
to matters pertaining to both houses (i.e., the house owned as well as the house occupied). 

Given below, in accordance to the classical works of astrology, is a brief account of 
the results produced by the placement of the different house lords in various houses. 
These results must be applied to individual charts with appropriate flexibility. Additional 
factors that must be considered during an interpretation include: 
(i)The inherent nature of the involved planet (besides its lordship). 
(ii)Its associations or aspects. 
(iii)The state of the planet in the vargas or divisional charts. 
(iv)The operating dasha to determine the time when a promise fructifies. 



Lagna lord in different houses 

The lord of the lagna, no matter whether a benefic or a malefic by nature, promotes the 
promise of the house it occupies. 
First House: Of sound health; long-lived; valourous; thoughtful; very fickle; having two 
wives; adulterous; owns and benefits from landed property. 
Second House: Learned; prosperous; religiously inclined; long-lived; sober; 
selfrespecting; having several wives; blessed with many virtues; earns from land and 
horses. 
Third House: Very courageous; like a lion; prosperous; wise; selfrespecting; having two 
wives; blessed with brothers and relatives. 
Fourth House: Derives comforts from mother; having several brothers; sensuous; 
virtuous; good in looks; long-lived; devoted to mother and father; small appetite. 
Fifth House: Easily angered; proud; honoured by the ruler; ordinary comfort from 
children; his firstborn doesn't survive; long-lived; given to virtuous deeds. 
Sixth House: Good health; destroys his opponents; frugal and rich; earns from lands. If 
afflicted, there occurs poor health and troubles from enemies. 
Seventh House: Brilliant; good looking and good natured wife. If the lagna lord is 
malefic by nature: bereft of wife; detached; poor or a king; wandering in foreign lands. 
Eighth House: Long-lived; accumulates wealth; ill-health; adulterous; thievish; a gambler; 
easily angered; good for spiritual pursuits. If the 8th lord is a malefic by nature, he 
suffers from eye diseases and if benefic then good looking. 
Ninth House: Fortunate; learned; beloved of all; worships Lord Vishnu; benevolent talker; 
endowed with wife, sons and wealth; very famous. 
Tenth House: Learned; honoured by the ruler; all comforts from father; attains fame and 
wealth through his own prowess. 
Eleventh house: Manifold benefits; good qualities; multiple wives; famous; has long-lived 
sons; lives in comfort. 
Twelfth House: Bereft of bodily comforts; engaged in unworthy pursuits; lives in a 
foreign land. If there is no benefic association or aspect on the 12th house: futile 
expenditure; easily angered. Benefic aspect/association reduces affliction. 



Second Lord in Different Houses 

Lord of the second house is a wealth-earner. 
First House: Wealthy; thrifty; cruel; blessed with many comforts; endowed with sons; 
ever ready to help others but like a thorn in the flesh of his own family members. 
Second House: Wealthy; earns well; enjoys comforts; proud; having two or three wives; 
son-less; inclined to oppose others. 
Third House: Virtuous; wise; valourous; greedy; sensuous. 
Note: Second lord malefic in nature: develops differences with his co-borns. 
Second lord benefic by nature: opposed to the ruler. 
Mars as 2nd lord in the 3rd house: a thief. 
Second lord associated with malefics in the 3rd house: speaks ill of the gods ('de vas' or 
virtuous beings). 
Fourth House: Endowed with wealth; truthful; long-lived; benefits from father. If 
exalted, or associated with Jupiter or Venus, the native is equivalent to a king. Mars as 
2nd lord here is a maraka. 
Fifth House: Wealthy; famous for his efficiency; blessed with several sons; capable of 
earning wealth; sickly. 
Sixth House: Accumnlates wealth; destroys his enemies; earns wealth through his enemies. 
If associated with malefics: loss of wealth, and disease of anal region and breast. 
Seventh House: Sensuous and money earning wife. If afflicted by malefics, he becomes a 
physician. He and his wife indulge in adultery. 
Eighth House: Income from lands and property; diminished comforts from wife; bereft 
of comforts from elder brother; harmful to others; lives on alms and charities; suicidal 
tendencies. 
Ninth House: Wealthy; industrious; ill health in childhood; healthy and comfortable later, 
till his end; good speaker. 
Tenth House: Sensuous; self-respecting; learned; blessed with several women; bereft of 
comforts from progeny; earns wealth through the ruler. 
Eleventh House: Widely known; efficient; respectable; ever benefitting; wealthy; looks 
after the needs of the many. 
Twelfth House: Courageous; laborious; devoid of comforts from his elder child; likely to 
lose his wealth. If the second lord is benefic in nature, he is a renowned trader. 



Third Lord in Different Houses 

The third lord indicates activity, including sexual activity 
First House: Man of courage and self-effort; wealthy; valourous; wise but illiterate; 
inclined to adultery; a forger. 
Second House: Covets others' wife and wealth; without valour; obese; disinterested in 
commencing a venture; devoid of comforts; short-lived; opposed to his own people. 
Third House: Healthy; valourous; comforts from brothers; blessed with sons, wealth and 
comforts; helpful family and friends; devoted to his preceptors and gods. 
Fourth House: Enjoys comforts; wealthy; wise; opposed to his mother; has a cruel wife. 
Fifth House: Virtuous; blessed with sons; long-lived; ever engaged in helping others. If 
malefics conjoin or aspect it, the wife is cruel. 
Sixth House: Enmity with brothers; very rich; little comfort from maternal uncle; desires 
his maternal aunt; eye diseases; sickly. 
Seventh House: Troubled in childhood, comfortable later; follower of a king; good 
natured wife. 
Eighth House: Thief; servile; capital punishment from the ruler; adverse for the siblings. 
Ninth House: Acquires fortune through women; no comfort from father; receives help 
from his children; learned. 
Tenth House: Earns wealth through his own efforts; varied comforts; looks after a wicked 
woman; honoured by the ruler. 
Eleventh House: Foolish; weak; sickly; servile; courageous; earns wealth through his own 
efforts; indulges in physical pleasures. 
Twelfth House: Wastes money in wicked pursuits; father is cruel; becomes fortunate 
through women; opposed to his relatives and friends; wanders in foreign countries. 



Fourth Lord in Different Houses 

The fourth lord deals with material possessions and comforts at home. 
First House: Comforts from mother; blessed with education, lands, vehicles, virtues, etc. 
Second House: Owns property; courageous; proud; has a big family; an enchanter; given 
to physical pleasures. 
Third House: Generous; talented; courageous; gives alms; blessed with servants; earns 
wealth through his own efforts; a source oftrouble to his parents. 
Fourth House: Owns vast property; clever; sober; ever in comfort; a minister; well 
informed; proud; attached to his wife; a source of wealth and status to his father; given to 
religious pursuits. 
Fifth House: Enjoys physical comforts; loved by all; devoted to God; earns through his 
own efforts; long-lived; benefits from his father. 
Sixth House: Bereft of comforts from mother; short tempered; wicked; thoughful; an 
adulterer. If 4th lord is a malefic, he brings bad name to father; if a benefic, accumulates 
wealth. 
Seventh House: Knows several subjects; gives up father's (ancestral) property; unable to 
express in an assembly. 
Eighth House: Lacks home comforts; impotent; little help from father and mother; cruel; 
sickly; wicked; born of a low woman. 
Ninth House: Beloved of all; blessed with many comforts; proud; virtuous; no help from 
father; stays away from father; learned; worshipper of lord Vishnu. 
Tenth House: Honoured by the ruler; very good health; many comforts; self-controlled; 
has knowledge of chemicals; father may have two wives. 
Eleventh House: Generous; helpful to others; talented; given to charities; sickly; devoted 
to his father; performs virtuous deeds. 
Twelfth House: Homeless; foolish; wicked; indolent; father resides in a foreign land. 



Fifth Lord in Different Houses 

Lord of the fifth house deals with the results of one's past karmas. 
First House: Shrewd; learned; devoid of comforts of progeny; wastes the money of 
others; renowned. 
Second House: Many sons; much wealth; renowned; liked by women; versed in song and 
music. 
Third House: Liked by his siblings; an enchanter; back-biter; thrifty; selfish; sweet 
tongued; his children look after his brothers. 
Fourth House: Comforts from mother; wealthy; wise; a minister or a preceptor; follows 
his ancestral vocation; devoted to his mother. 
Fifth House: Blessed with learning, pride and progeny; foremost amongst the famous; 
virtuous. Fifth lord under benefic influence: good for progeny; under malefic influence: 
childless. 
Sixth House: Illness to child; opposed by his son; many enemies; sickly; poor; lacks 
respect. 
Seventh House: Religiously inclined; proud; helpful to others; blessed with sons; devoted 
to gods and preceptors; virtuous wife. 
Eighth House: Short tempered; cruel; miserable; bad for progeny; disease of the 
respiratory system. 
Ninth House: High status for the son; renowned among his family members; writer of 
books; versed in poetry and music; good looking; honoured by the king. 
Tenth House: Famous like a king; many physical pleasures; indulges in virtuous pursuits; 
good for mother. 
Eleventh House: Very learned; wealthy; renowned; skilled in book writing; blessed with 
many sons; firm in friendship; brave; enjoys royal comforts. 
Twelfth House: Deprived of comforts from his children (or childless!); wanders in foreign 
lands. 



Sixth Lord in Different Houses 

Lord of the sixth house signifies struggle and hostility. 
First House: Ill-health; proud; renowned; wealthy by his own efforts; virtuous; 
courageous; opposed to his own relatives and siblings; overcomes his enemies; reliable; 
good health if under benefic influences. 
Second House: Renowned in his family; courageous; an orator; lives in a foreign land; 
duty bound; ailing; earns and accumulates wealth. 
Third House: Hostile to his brothers; easily angered; devoid of personal effort; suffers in 
battle; wicked servants. 
Fourth House: No comforts from mother; thoughtful; hostile to others, and fickle, still 
rich; mutual hostility towards father; ailing father. 
Fifth House: Inconstant friends and wealth; hostile to his own progeny; selfish; kind and 
happy; suffers at the hands of his children. 
Sixth House: Hostile to his own fellowmen; friendly to outsiders; ordinary wealth; good 
health. 
Seventh House: Bereft of pleasures from wife; blessed with wealth and virtues; 
courageous; hostile and short-tempered wife; incapable of bearing his progeny. 
Eighth House: Ailing; hostile to the virtuous; ever eager to possess the wealth and woman 
of others; unclean. 
Note: Cause of death depending upon the nature of 6th lord in the 8th house: 

Saturn as 6L in SH: Abdominal ailments. 
Mars as 6L in SH: Snake bite. 
Mercury as 6L in SH: Poisons (and septicaemia). 
Moon as 6L in SH: Hypothermia; watery diseases. 
Sun as 6L in SH: Lion (carnivorous animals). 
Jupiter as 6L in SH: Distorted wisdom (mental illness). 
Venus as 6L in SH: Eye disease. 

Ninth House: Deals in wood; fluctuating income; a non-believer in scriptures; opposed to 
his brothers; lame. 
Tenth House: Well known in his family; orator; not devoted to his father; opposed to his 
mother; lives in comfort in a foreign land. 
Eleventh House: Courageous; proud; virtuous; gains from his opponents; dies at the 
hands ofhis enemies; suffers thefts; benefits from quadrupeds. 
Twelfth House: Hostile to the learned; wastes money in wicked pursuits; killer of living 
beings; loses money through quadrupeds; a wanderer; a fatalist. 



Seventh Lord in Different Houses 

Lord of the seventh house signifies partnerships and relationships. 
First House: Adulteror; wicked; very clever; good in looks; given to physical pleasures; 
attached to his own wife; suffers from Vaata-related ailments. 
Second House: Associates with several women; abstains from women despite proximity; 
earns through women; slow in action. 
Third House: Possesses spiritual strength; affectionate; wife suffers miscarriage. 
Fourth House: Truthful and religious; wife resorts to adultery; dental illness; associates 
with the enemies of his father. 
Fifth House: Wealthy; proud; virtuous; contented; his wife is looked after by his son. 
Sixth House: Ailing wife; mutual hostility toward wife; easily angered, and miserable; 
suffers at the hands of his wife. 
Seventh House: Good wife; learned; well known; suffers from Vaata-related diseases. 
Eighth House: Ailing or wicked wife; bereft of wife; adulteror; miserable. 
Ninth House: Ever inclined to associate with women; famous; good natured. 
Tenth House: Religiously inclined; blessed with wealth and progeny; disobedient wife; 
given to physical pleasures. 
Eleventh House: Earns through his wife; more daughters; beautiful and virtuous wife. 
Twelfth House: Poor; a dealer in clothes; expenditure through wife; deceived by his wife. 



Eighth Lord in Different Houses 

Eighth lord stands for obstacles and deprivations. 
First House: Bereft of physical comforts; speaks ill of gods and Brahmins; physical 
injuries; engaged in prohibited deeds. 
Second House: Weak-armed; small wealth; loses his earnings; short-lived; thievish; many 
enemies; punished by the ruler. 
Third House: Indolent; bereft of comforts from brothers; weak; opposed to friends and 
brothers; fickle. 
Fourth House: Deceives his friends; bereft of comforts from mother, home, lands, etc.; 
opposed to his father. 
Fifth House: Limited progeny; wealthy; long lived; poor intelligence; suffers after birth 
of child. 
Sixth House: Ailing in childhood; overcomes his foes; fear from water and reptiles. 
Note: 

Sun as 8L in 6H: Opposed to the ruler. 
Moon as 8L in 6H: Ailing. 
Mars as 8L in 6H: Easily angered. 
Mercury as 8L in 6H: Coward. 
Jupiter as 8L in 6H: Diseased limbs. 
Venus as 8L in 6H: Eye disease. 
Saturn as 8L in 6H: Disease of the oral cavity. 

Seventh House: Two wives; abdominal disease; wicked. When the 8th lord is associated 
with a malefic, there is loss in business and suffering at the hands of wife. 
Eighth House: Long life; good health; deceitful; famous. If the 8th lord is weak, he has 
medium life span. 
Ninth House: Atheist; a sinner; covets the wife and wealth of others; wicked wife; a killer 
ofliving beings; disease ofthe oral cavity. 
Tenth House: Bereft of comforts from father; disinclined to put in effort; serves the ruler. 
Eleventh House: Miserable in childhood; prosperous in late age; poor, if ill-associated; 
long-lived, ifwell associated. 
Twelfth House: Spends on wicked pursuits; cruel; sickly body; thievish. 



Ninth Lord in Different Houses 

The ninth lord denotes fortune and virtue. 

First House: Learned; good looking; honoured by the king; fortunate; small appetite; 
devoted to gods and preceptors. 

Second House: Sensuous; blessed with wife and sons; wealthy; learned; likeable; disease 
of oral cavity. 

Third House: Very good looking; wealthy; virtuous; blessed with siblings, relatives and a 
beautiful wife. 
Fourth House: Devoted to his mother; famous; possesses house, lands and vehicles. 

Fifth House: Devoted to his preceptors; religiously inclined; learned; fortunate sons; 
virtuous. 
Sixth House: Tormented by enemies; no comfort from maternal uncle; engaged in 
religious pursuits; sickly. 

Seventh House: Blessed with a truthful, beautiful and devoted wife; virtuous. 
Eighth House: Unfortunate; bereft of comforts from elder brother; killer of living beings; 
wicked; irreligious. 

Ninth House: Very fortunate; good looking; virtuous; blessed with brothers; religiously 
inclined. 

Tenth House: Virtuous; renowned; of a high status with the king; engaged in religious 
pursuits; devoted to parents. 

Eleventh House: Virtuous; pious; continuous inflow of money; long-lived; engaged in 
religious pursuits; wealthy and famous. 

Twelfth House: Unfortunate; loses wealth in religious deeds and charities; honoured in 
foreign lands; scholarly; good in looks. 



Tenth Lord in Different Houses 

The tenth lord indicates functions of the native. 
First House: Learned; virtuous; sickly in childhood, healthy later; attains to progressively 
increasing wealth; devoted to father; hostile to mother. 
Second House: Virtuous; wealthy; honoured by the ruler; given to charities; opposed to 
his mother; avaricious. 
Third House: Valorous; virtuous; good speaker; righteous; blessed with brothers, servants, 
etc.; inclined to oppose his near and dear ones. 
Fourth House: Prosperous; virtuous; blessed with lands, horses, vehicles and physical 
comforts; devoted to his mother and father. 
Fifth House: Blessed with wealth, progeny and learning; healthful; engaged in pious 
deeds; favoured by the ruler; fond of song and music. 
Sixth House: Tormented by foes; poor despite being skilled; no comfort from father; 
quarrelsome; healthful. 
Seventh House: Good wife; virtuous; thoughtful; engaged in pious deeds. 
Eighth House: Long-lived; talks ill of others; reluctant to undertake a venture; cruel; 
wickedly disposed. 
Ninth House: Blessed with wealth and sons; a king or his equal; good-natured; worthy 
friends. 
Tenth House: Truthful; valorous; very efficient, and blessed with comforts; benevolent 
towards his mother. 
Eleventh House: Blessed with riches, sons and virtues; truthful; ever contented; long-
lived; cared for by the mother. 
Twelfth House: Clever; worrisome; frightened by opponents; suffers expenditure through 
the king. If the lOth lord is a malefic, native wanders or works in a foreign land. 



Eleventh Lord in Different Houses 

The eleventh lord is a multiplier. 
First House: Wealthy; of Sattvika nature; writer of poetry; treats everyone equally; 
regular inflow of money; strong and brave; short-lived (according to some). 
Second House: Very wealthy; blessed with comforts and spirituality; given to religious 
pursuits and charities; sickly; short-lived. 
Third House: Very efficient; many brothers; destroys his enemies; afflicted by abdominal 
pains. 
Fourth House: Wealthy through the mother; blessed with lands and houses; goes on 
pilgrimages; long-lived; devoted to his father; inclined to do the appropriate thing at the 
appropriate time. 
Fifth House: Learned; engaged in religious pursuits; lives in comfort; virtuous sons; in 
mutual harmony with his father. 
Sixth House: Sickly; cruel; tormented by foes; resides in a foreign land; powerful 
enemies. If the II th lord is a malefic: native suffers death in a foreign land at the hands 
of a thief. 
Seventh House: Virtuous; sensuous; generous; subservient to his wife; earns through 
women-folk; long-Iived;high status. 
Eighth House: A failure; long-lived; his wife dies before him; sickly. 
Ninth House: Favoured by the ruler; wealthy; truthful; immersed in religious pursuits; 
very learned. 
Tenth House: Honoured by the king; self-controlled; truthful; virtuous; follows his own 
religion; long-lived; devoted to his mother; hostile to father. 
Eleventh House: Gains from all pursuits; renowned through his learning and worldly 
possessions; long-lived; blessed with many sons and grandsons; good in looks. 
Twelfth House: Associates with mlechchhas (non-believers of other lands); sensuous; 
physical comforts from several women; spends on religious deeds; given to misdeeds; 
suffers chronic illness. 



Twelfth Lord in Different Houses 

The twelfth lord is a divider or a subtractor. 
First House: Inclined to be spend-thrift; weak bodied; poor; stupid; resident in a foreign 
country; good in looks; unmarried or impotent; suffers from Kapha-related illnesses. 
Second House: Religiously inclined; sweet tongued; spends on good deeds; comfortable; 
fear from thieves, fire and the king. 
Third House: Bereft of brothers, or lives away from them; looking after himself alone; 
inimical to others; thrifty. 
Fourth House: Devoid of lands, home, vehicles or comforts from mother; sickly; 
opposed by his own sons; miserable. 
Fifth House: Spends for the sake of his son; bereft of sons and learning; inclined to go on 
pilgrimages. 
Sixth House: Short tempered; miserable; a sinner; hostile to his own people; addicted to 
women other than his own; eye disease. Venus as the 12th lord in the 6th house leads to 
blindness. 
Seventh House: Expenditure on wife; bereft of comforts from wife; weak and stupid; 
wicked; suffers at the hands of his own wife. 
Eighth House: Sweet tongued; medium life span; blessed with good qualities; acquires 
wealth. 
Ninth House: Selfish; hostile towards friends and preceptors; goes on pilgrimages. 
Tenth House: Little comfort from father; loss of money through association with the 
ruler; averse to other's wives; accumulates wealth for his children. 
Eleventh House: Rich; suffers losses even if there are combinations for wealth in the 
chart; long-lived; famous; truthful. 
Twelfth House: Spend-thrift; easily angered; sickly; short-lived; looks after the cattle; 
well-known. 



Points to Remember 

The above mentioned results must be applied cautiously. The following points must be 
taken care of: 
I. Planets which own two houses represent both the houses and, therefore, give results 
pertaining to both the houses. 
2. When, because of the dual lordship, mutually contradictory results are indicated, they 
get cancelled. 
3. When, because of the dual lordship, different results are indicated, they come to pass. 
4. Strong planets produce full results. When the planets are weak, the results manifest 
weakly. 
5. Any results indicated tend to occur when an appropriate dasha operates. 
Note: 

In the researches being published by our academic group in Delhi, we have been 
using the placements of different house lords in a very innovative way. For example, the 
lith lord in the 12th house can mean an elder brother or sister settling in a foreign 
country, and also import or export business, etc. The new meanings in the context of 
changed times must not be lost sight oflest we commit mistakes in interpreting a chart. 



... XVIII. .. 

Planets in Different Houses 

4:t-4 ~ ~ ~41f01 ;>lti:tTIS~ fl~:e;4:(11;1 
"'11 '"i lfqmf.1 f<;oq I A '"i H (q a llC6 ti'TR" o:q II 

Behold, 0 Partha, My forms divine, hundreds and thousands of 
them, various in kind, various in shapes and hues. 

Gita XI/5 

We have already discussed the results of placement of house lords in different 
houses. Here we give a brief account of the placement of various planets, irrespective of 
their lordship, in different houses. A proper understanding of this aspect is essential for 
correct predictions. 

Placement of planets in different houses involves an interaction between the 
inherent nature of the planet and the significations of the house concerned. The results of 
such planetary placements, as mentioned hereunder, have been taken from classical 
works on Vedic astrology. These results must be applied to individual horoscopes with 
the openness of a scientist along with suitable adjustments to make them coherent in the 
modem context. 



The Sun 

The Sun is favourable in the houses 3, 6, I 0 and II. 
First House: Scanty body hair; indolent; cruel hearted; easily angered; of tall stature; 
arrogant; valiant; unforgiving; dry eyes or defective vision. 
Note: 

(i) In Mesha lagna (exaltation) =poor vision. 
(ii) In Karka lagna = cataract. 
(iii) In Simha lagna (own house) =strong; night-blindness. 
(iv) In Tula lagna (debilitation) =Blind; poor; bad for progeny. 
(v) In Meena lagna =waited upon and served by women. 

Second House: Loses wealth through the king; disease in the face or teeth; defective 
speech; immensely rich. 
Third House: Valorous; wealthy; liberal and strong; bereft of brothers; learned; 
overcomes his opponents. 
Fourth House: Bereft of home comforts; devoid of friends, relatives, land and house; 
heart disease. 
Fifth House: Childless; short-lived; poor; worrisome; wise; a wanderer. 
Note: Sun in he fifth house is adverse for the first-born, particularly for a son. 
Sixth House: Opulent; powerful; very rich; famous; victorious; a king or a judge; good 
appetite and digestion. 
Seventh House: Poor; wicked; suffers humiliation; ill-looking; sickly; inimical to 
womenfolk; treads the forbidden path. 
Eighth House: Devoid of wealth and comforts; few children; short-lived; deprived of 
near and dear ones; disease in the eye. 
Ninth House: Blessed with wealth, friends, sons and happiness; devoted to gods and 
Brahmins; adverse for father. 
Note: The Sun is the significator for father. Ninth house indicates father. A significator in 
its relevant house generally damages the concerned signification. 
Tenth House: Renowned, wise and powerful; very wealthy; blessed with sons and 
relatives; pursues his undertakings to completion; unconquerable; equal to a king. 
Eleventh House: Wealthy; powerful and efficient; enjoys varied comforts. 
Twelfth House: Physical ailment; eye disease; fallen from his prescribed pursuits; a 
wanderer; inimical to father. 



The Moon 

The Moon is adverse in houses 6, 8 and 12 where it causes Balarishta (or death in early 
childhood), unless under benefic influences. 
First House: Insane; deaf; wicked; mute; mentally disturbed; dark complexioned; ill-
looking. If such a Moon is under malefic influence, the native doesn't survive long. 
These results do not apply to the signs Mesha, Vrisha or Karka identical with the lagna. 
Note: 

(i) In Mesha lagna: many children. 
(ii) In Vrisha lagna (exaltation): wealthy; famous; good in looks. 
(iii) In Karka lagna (own house): wealthy; famous; good in looks. 
(iv) Full Moon in lagna: Fearless; wealthy; long-lived. 

Second House: Sweet tongued; wealthy; physical comforts; fond ofwomen; large family; 
a man of few words. 
Third House: Virtuous; brave; blessed with brothers; educated. 
Fourth House: Happy; detached; learned; sensuous; fond ofwater sports. 
Fifth House: Blessed with children, wealth and learning; a coward. 
Sixth House: Short-lived; soft skin; easily angered; troubled by opponents; abdominal 
disorders. 
Seventh House: Good-looking; given to sexual excess; possesses a beautiful wife; a 
wanderer. 
Eighth House: Wise and learned; fickle; diseased; short-lived. 
Ninth House: Devoted to his duties; blessed with comforts, wealth, learning and children; 
adored by women. 
Tenth House: Wealthy; pious; efficient; powerful and liberal; completes his undertakings 
to perfection. 
Eleventh House: Wealthy and famous; brave; thoughtful; blessed with sons; long-lived. 
Twelfth House: Indolent; humiliated; miserable; fallen; diseased in the eye; resides in a 
foreign country. 



Mars is beneficial in houses 3,6, 10 and 11. In houses I, 4, 7, 8 and 12, it produces what 
is called as Kuja-dosha which is adverse for conjugal life. 
First House: Cruel; dare-devilish; fickle and sickly; short-lived; injured in the body. 
Second House: Bereft of learning, wealth, good food and good company; disease in the 
oral cavity; a wanderer. 
Third House: Valorous; powerful; unconquerable, virtuous and upright; adverse for 
younger brother. 
Fourth House: Bereft of house, lands, money, mother and friends; valiant. 
Fifth House: Fickle; unrighteous and wicked; bereft of children, wealth and friends; lacks 
peace of mind. 
Sixth House: Lustful; powerful appetite and digestive capability; annihilation of his foes; 
a leader. 
Seventh House: Wicked; sickly; loses his wife; slim-bodied; poor and quarrelsome. 
Eighth House: Miserable; sickly; short-lived; indulges in prohibited deeds; injured body. 
Ninth House: A traitor or a killer; irreligious; sinner; favoured by the ruler; adverse roT 
parents. 
Tenth House: Cruel; liberal; valorous; equal to a king; famous; held in high esteem. 
Eleventh House: Wealthy; lustful; brave; attains to desired pleasures. 
Twelfth House: Cruel, repulsive and wicked; bereft of wife; suffers incarceration, misery 
and eye disease. 



Mercurv 

First House: Healthful; sweet-tongued; learned; a mathematician or a scholar; versed in 
scriptures; long-lived. 
Second House: Good speech; learned; wealthy; enjoys good food. 
Third House: Of wavering disposition; given to hard physical labour; deceitful; a 
sorcerer; good brothers and sisters. 
Fourth House: Very learned and scholarly; blessed with wealth, vehicles, home, physical 
comforts and friends. 
Fifth House: Gains eminence through learning; proficient in mantras (potent 
incantations); many sons; brave and happy. 
Sixth House: Easily angered and quarrelsome; argumentative; conqueror of his 
opponents; indolent; sickly; unhelpful to his near ones. 
Seventh House: Knowledgeable; wise and renowned; wealthy wife. 
Eighth House: Famous; long-lived; equal to a king; a judge. 
Ninth House: Opulent and learned; good speaker; very clever; virtuous and righteous. 
Tenth House: Learned; powerful; given to righteous pursuits; famous and efficient. 
Eleventh House: Long-lived; truthful; an intellectual; wealthy, famous and indulgent in 
physical pleasures. 
Twelfth House: Indolent, repulsive and miserable; also learned and sweet tongued. 



First House: Learned, fearless and long-lived; good in looks; balanced in outlook; 
wealthy. 
Second House: Wealthy; eloquent speaker; good in looks; fond of good food; helpful to 
others; liberal in gifts. 
Third House: Subdued by brother and wife; covetous; wicked and miserable; overcomes 
his foes; poor digestion; good for brothers and sisters. 
Fourth House: Possessed of comforts, wealth, vehicle, wisdom, and near and dear ones; 
tormentor of foes; good in looks; happy. 
Fifth House: Learned and famous; wealthy and virtuous; a minister; suffers because of 
sons. 
Sixth House: Indolent; destroys his enemies; poor digestion; hen-pecked; very famous; 
physically weak and lustful. 
Seventh House: Learned and famous; excels his father; blessed with good wife and sons. 
Eighth House: Miserable; servile; earns from service; unclean; adulterous; long-lived. 
Ninth House: Devout and learned; wealthy and famous; blessed with sons; a leader or 
minister. 
Tenth House: Completes his undertakings to perfection; possesed of wisdom, wealth and 
virtue. 
Eleventh House: Wealthy, steadfast and long-lived; few sons. 
Twelfth House: Indolent, irresolute and wicked; servile; without progeny. 



First House: Good-looking; amorous; learned; happy and long-lived. 
Second House: Wealthy; graceful; good speaker; a poet. 
Third House: Covetous, rich, controlled by his wife; disinclined toward physical venture. 
Fourth House: Good house, ornaments, clothes and vehicles; good in looks; boastful; 
subdued by his wife. 
Fifth House: Wealthy; sensuous; high status; blessed with comforts, sons and friends; 
good in looks. 
Sixth House: Bereft of enemies; poor and miserable; associates with many women; little 
pleasure from wife; infamous. 
Seventh House: Quarrelsome; lustful; lovely in looks; associates with beautiful and low 
women. 
Eighth House: Long-lived; opulent; numerous physical comforts; equal to a king; ever 
contented. 
Ninth House: Learned and wealthy; possesses wife, children, friends and other physical 
comforts; religiously inclined. 
Tenth House: High status; powerful; wealthy and famous; helped by women. 
Eleventh House: Wealthy; associates with women not his own; bereft of all pains and 
miseries. 
Twelfth House: Indolent; fallen; skilled lover; debauched. 



First House:Miserable; indolent, lustful, ugly and sickly; defective limbs and mal-odorous 
body. 
Note: 
Very good results occur if Saturn is in the lagna identical with: 

(i) its exaltation sign (Tula), 
(ii)own signs (Makara and Kumbha), and 
(iii) signs of Jupiter (Dhanu and Meena) 

In all these, Saturn in lagna makes one equal to a king, a headman of a village or town, 
long-lived, virtuous and scholarly. 
Second House: Destitute; untruthful and indigent; suffers disease of oral cavity. In later 
years, he quits his place of residence and earns wealth, possessions and comforts. 
Third House: Wickedly inclined; indolent; strong, liberal and full ofwisdom; wealthy. 
Fourth House: Adverse for mother; bereft of near and dear ones; wise and rich; sickly in 
early age. 
Fifth House: Insane, fickle, unhappy; devoid of sons, comforts and wisdom; overcomes 
his opponents. 
Sixth House: Wealthy; big appetite; very lustful; good in looks; tormented by his 
enemies. 
Seventh House: Ever ailing; indigent; sickly wife; unclean and repulsive. 
Eighth House: Heroic and aggressive in the beginning, he loses his strength and money 
later; perianal disease. 
Note: Saturn in the 8th house is generally favourable for good health and longevity. 
Ninth House: Irreligious, unfortunate and penurious; adverse for father; hurtful to others. 
Note: 

Astrological prediction is an art of synthesis and should not be done on the basis of 
a single factor. For instance, Saturn in the 9th house has produced two of the greatest 
spiritual giants in recent times, Swami Ramakrishna Paramahamsa and Ma Anandamoyee. 



Venus Rahu Jup(R) 

I~L.gm 
SunMan Swami Ra-
Mer(R) makrishna 

P;m1mal1amsa 
Mars Feh. 18, 1936 

Kcru Sat(R) 

La~na 3.13' Mars 22•15' Venus 9"04' 
Sun 6.53' Mercury(R) ts•os· Saturn (R) 13.41' 
Moon 22.04' Jupiter(R) 14*33' Rahu 2'31' 

See the horoscope of Swami Ramakrishna Paramahamsa. 
Tenth Honse: Learned, wealthy and powerful; a judge or a leader; proud and heroic. 
Eleventh Honse: Stable renown; good health; much wealth; voluptuous and long-lived. 
Twelfth Honse: Defective vision; spendthrift; shameless and miserable; a leader. 



Rahu is beneficial in houses 3, 6, 10  and II. 
First House: Cruel, wealthy and short-lived; courageous but wicked; without compassion; 
ugly hair, nails and looks; disease in upper part of the body. 
Note: 

(i)Rahu in lagna, identical with Mesha, Karka and Simha: Pleasures and affluence. 
(ii)Rahu in lagna, aspected by benefics: Productive of all comforts and enjoyments. 

Second House: Quarrelsome; poor; thievish; earns money through favours from the king; 
unclear speech; disease in the oral cavity; speaks with hidden meanings; deals in animal 
skins or sale of fishes, etc. 
Third House: Wealthy, valiant and proud; long-lived; opposed to his brothers; blessed 
with sons, wife, friends and physical enjoyments; if exalted it ensures vehicles and 
servants. 
Note: Rahu gets exalted in Vrisha. 
Fourth House: Destitute; foolish; short-lived; bereft of wealth and physical comforts; 
opposed to his wife. 
Fifth House: Easily angered; harmful to children; compassionate; suffers from phobias; 
abdominal ailments. 
Sixth House: Tormented by foes; annihilator of foes; blessed with wealth, children and 
varied physical comforts; resorts to adultery; perianal disease; long-life. 
Seventh House: Loses wealth through women; adulteror; bereft of wife; wicked; brave; 
ailing. 
Eighth House: Short-lived; suffers from Vaata-related sickness; few children; wicked and 
miserable; fearless; perianal disease; indolent. 
Ninth House: Leader of a group, village or town; opposed to his father; cruel; ugly dress; 
tormented by his opponents. 
Tenth House: Fearless; helpful to others; famous; sensuous; engaged in unlawful pursuits; 
learned, wealthy and a minister; detached; a wanderer. 
Eleventh House: Wealthy; long-lived; few children; eager for combat; keeps his senses 
under control; good looking; a man of few words; versed in scriptures; lives in a foreign 
land; suffers ear disease. 
Twelfth House: Bereft of comfort, wealth and virtue; immoral; secretly sinful; fickle; 
sickly; suffers from water-related disease; lives in a foreign land. 



Like other malefics, Ketu too is good in houses 3 ,6, I 0 and II. 
First House: Sickly; avaricious; worrisome; displaced from residence and status; fear from 
wicked people; injured body; suffers from Vaata-related disorders. 
Note: 

(i) Ketu in lagna, aspected by benefics: princely pleasures. 
(ii) In the lagna, in a sign of Saturn: wealthy and blessed with children. 

Second House: Bereft of learning and wealth; disease of the eye or oral cavity; unclear 
speech; opposed to his near and dear ones; eats at others' houses. 
Note: Located in the sign of a natural benefic: physical comforts. 
Third House: Virtuous; wealthy; eager for combat; destroys his enemies; sensuous; long-
lived; lacks friends and brothers; pain in the upper limb. 
Fourth House: Loses mother, wealth, ancestral lands, and house; lives in a distant land or 
in others' houses; fond of propagating malicious gossip. 
Fifth House: Abdominal disease; phobias; scared of water; lacking in learning and 
progeny. 
Sixth House: Annihilator of foes; good health; generous and erudite; humiliated by 
maternal uncle; gains through quadrupeds. 
Seventh House: No comfort from wife; stupid; a wanderer; associates with wicked 
women; disease of the intestines and seminal fluid; loss of wealth; fear from water; suffers 
humiliation. 
Note: Ketu in the seventh house in Vrischika (exaltation): Multiple benefits. 
Eighth House: Perianal ailments; separation from near and dear ones; accident or injury 
from weapons; avaricious; desirous of wealth and wives of others; sickly and immoral. 
Note: Ketu in the eighth house in Mesha, Vrisha, Mithuna, Kanya and Vrischika: gain of 
wealth. 
Ninth House: Short temper; eloquent; desirous of progeny; hostile to his father; bereft of 
brothers and sisters; arrogant; disease in the upper limb; becomes fortunate through the 
help ofmlechchhas (outsider non-believers). 
Tenth House: Powerful; renowned; cruel; destroys his opponents; knower of the Self; no 
comfort from father; not good in looks; ever a wanderer. 
Note: Ketu in the tenth house identical with Mesha, Vrisha, Kanya or Vrischika: 
annihilates his foes. 
Eleventh House: Valiant; powerful; renowned; virtuous; learned; good in looks; scared; 
wicked sons. 
Twelfth House: Immoral; commits sins secretively; disease of legs, feet, anal region and 
eye; conqueror in war; spends on good deeds; fickle. 



Planets in Different houses from The Moon 

Manasagari, the classic on Vedic astrology, mentions specific results for placement 
of planets in relation to the Moon. This underscores the importance of the Moon in 
predictive astrology. The Moon has been considered as almost equal to the Iagna or the 
ascendant in matters of prediction. The following is a brief account of the results of 
planets when located in different houses, as considered from the Moon. 
Sun 
1st House: Distant traveller; immersed in pleasures; inclined toward strife. 
2nd House: Blessed with servants; commanding dignity; honoured by the ruler. 
3rd House: Desirous of riches (gold!); chaste; controlling many human beings (like 
kings). 
4th House: Mother's killer (causes harm to mother!). 
5th House: Troubles through daughters; many sons. 
6th House: Conqueror of foes; works for Kshatriyas. 
7th House: Association with beautiful wife; good character; honoured by kings; Tapasvi. 
8th House: Creates strife; numerous ailments. 
9th House: Inclined toward religion; truthful; suffers at the hands of relatives. 
lOth House: Excessively rich; praised by the wealthy. 
11th House: Royal dignity; versed in several branches of knowledge, famous, heads his 
family. 
12th House: One-eyed. 
Mars 
1st House: Red-eyed, reddish complexion; bleeding wounds. 
2nd House: Owns land; son takes to agriculture. 
3rd House: Has 4 brothers; good natured; ever comfortable. 
4th House: Bereft of comfort and wealth; loss of wife. 
5th House: Bereft of sons. lfwife has Mars in lagna, he becomes childless certainly. 
6th House: Prone to Adharma, illness and enmity toward others. 
7th House: lll-natured and ill-tempered wife. 
8th House: Sinner; killer; bereft of good nature and truthfulness. 
9th House: Wealthy; begets a son in old age. 
lOth House: Comforts, conveyances, money. 
I lth House: Famous in king's court; dignified; handsome. 



12th House: Hurts all, including his mother. 
Mercury 
1st House: Bereft of comforts and good appearance; harsh tongued; low thinking; ever 
on the move. 
2nd House: Wealthy, having house, relatives and money. dies of ailments arising from 
cold. 
3rd House: Having wealth and property; benefits from association of great men and 
rulers. 
4th House: Ever comfortable; gains from maternal relations. 
5th House: Intelligent, learned, of good appearance, immersed in sensual pleasures; harsh 
of tongue. 
6th House: Miserly; coward; scared of conflicts; hairy body and big eyes. 
7th House: Dominated by women; miserly, wealthy; long lived. 
8th House: Coldness of constitution, famous among rulers, feared by foes. 
9th House: Opponent of his own religion; immersed in others' religion; opposes all, 
callous in nature. 
lOth House: Blessed with 'Raja-Yoga'. If the Moon is in the tenth house, he is the leader 
in his family. 
I lth House: Gains at each step; marries at 11 years. 
12th House: Ever miserly; his son never wins (always loses!). 
Jupiter 
1st House: Long lived; free from ailments; powerful; ever wealthy. 
2nd House: Respected by rulers; lives a hundred years; quick in movements; valourous; 
endowed with virtue. 
3rd House: Loved by women; father gains wealth during the seventeenth year of the 
native. 
4th House: Bereft of comforts; trouble from maternal side; serves in other's house. 
5th House: Good eyesight; valorous; blessed with sons; wealthy and dominating. 
6th House: Indifferent; bereft of home; long life, but living on alms or through low 
deeds. 
7th House: Long lived; sweet tongued; healthy; impotent; jaundiced; leader in his family. 
8th House: Physical ailments and discomforts in plenty. 
9th House: Wealthy; virtuous; service to guru and gods. 
I Oth House: Leaves wife and sons to become a Tapasvi. 



11th House: Blessed sons; vehicles; dignified as a king. 
12th House: Opposes his near and dear ones. 1f Jupiter aspects the sixth house from 
lagna, the native is comfortable. 
Venus 
lstHouse: Death in water; paralysis; violent death. 
2nd House: Wealthy; scholar; valorous like a king. 
3rd House: Religiously inclined; wise; earns from mlechchhas. 
4th House: Phlegmatic temperament; weak-bodied; bereft of money in old age. 
5th House: Many daughters; rich; no fame. 
6th House: Prodigal; loser in battle. 
7th Hous: Without 'Pu rush artha'; foolish, suspicious. 
8th House: Famed; fighter; generous; wealthy; gets various comforts. 
9th House: Many brothers; many sisters; many friends. 
I Oth House: Gives comfort to mother and father; long life. 
II th House: Long life; bereft of illness and opponents. 
12th House: Associatess with others' wives; lewd; foolish. 
Saturn 
1st House: Adverse for health, friends and relatives. 
2nd House: Bad for mother; lives on goat milk. 
3rd House: Several daughters who die soon after birth. 
4th House: Shows 'Purushartha'; annihilates foes. 
5th House: Wife dark-complexioned and sweet-tongued. 
6th House: Alpayu (short-lived); many troubles. 
7th House: Religious; generous; marries many women. 
8th House: Bad for father; ill effects vanish by giving alms. 
9th House: Loss of wealth in Saturn dasha. 
I Oth House: Equivalent to a king; miserly; wealthy. 
11th House: Bad for health; irreligious. 
12th House: Poor; beggar; irreligious 
Rahu 
1st, lOth or 9th House: King; by old age he only remains a wealthy man. 



6th or 12th House: King or minister; wealthy. 
4th or 7th House: Bad for parents; ever unhappy. 
2nd or 1 lth House: No comfort despite wealth and fame. 
5th House: Death by drowning; no comforts. 



... XIX ... 

Planets in Different Signs 

q ~ i4 lfu:f£11 ::q 'li= ;~J 4 fkt ;fl tt ;a <re:z:t 1 
G( ~: ;::n;: ti'!Q a1fu 1 Q ~ ~ f~•:c:p~ I fO 1 t£1 1< t d 11 

0:. c-. 

Behold the Adityas, the Vasus, the two Ashwins, and also the 
Maruts. Behold, 0 Bharata, many wonders never seen before. 

Gita XI/6 

Even as the placement of various house lords and planets in different houses is 
important in predictions, so also are horoscopic indications consequent upon an 
interaction of planets and signs. The inherent nature of a planet undergoes modifications 
depending upon the sign it is located in. The following is a brief account of the 
indications given by planets when located in different signs, according to the classical 
works on astrology. A literal application of the results mentioned here-under must, 
however, be avoided. 



The Sun in Different Signs 

Mesha: Courageous, fighter, famous for book writing, wanderer, aggressive, of strong 
bones, afflicted by disorders of blood and Pitta, lacking wealth, and earning his 
livelihood from the use of weapons. If the Sun is exalted, his adverse influences are less 
marked. 
Note: The Sun is exalted at Mesha 10°. Mesha is a sign of Mars which is an aggressive 
planet and also rules bone marrow. Mesha is also a movable sign, hence 'wanderer'. 
Vrisha: Tolerant, wise, skilful in dealing with others; earning through scents, clothes as 
well as from sinful acts; dislikes feminine association; skilled in instrumental music; 
suffers from diseases of the oral cavity and the eye. 
Mithuna: Good to look at, learned, wealthy, sweet-tongued; well-versed in astrology; 
keen learner, famous, having two mothers. 
Karka: Poor, ignorant, servile; opposed to his father and other near ones; tormented by 
hard labour; good speaker, religiously inclined, conceited; suffering from ailments of 
Kapha and Pitta; having royal bearing (ifunder benefic influence). 
Note: The Sun is a royal planet. Karka is owned by the Moon which is also a royal planet. 
Sintha: Easily angered; destroyer of his enemies; frequents hills and jungles; full of 
strength and vigour; learned; versed in multiple arts; relishes animal food; rich; royal 
bearing; consistent, and suffering from ear trouble. 
Kanya: Having a body like that of a woman; physically weak; skilled in writing, painting, 
poetry and mathematics; shy nature; linguist; respectful to elders; sweet tongued; capable 
of earning money. 
Note: Kanya literally means a virgin. The Sun in this sign gives a delicate body. 
Tula: Sinner; overcome by opponents; servile; quarrelsome; bereft of wealth; distiller of 
liquors, goldsmith, or a blacksmith; inconsistent; interested in others' wives; humiliated 
by the ruler; courageous (foolhardy!). 
Note: The Sun is debilitated in Tula I 0°. 
Vrischika: Quarrelsome, easily angered, keen to pick up fights, skilled in the use of 
weapons; cruel and daring; opposed to his parents; prone to be hurt by poison, weapon 
or fire; wastes his earnings; follows the prescribed norms of religious discipline. 
Dhanu: Rich; liked by the ruler; scholar; devoted to gods and Brahmins; skilled in the use 
of weapons; worthy ofreverence; intelligent; having knowledge of medicine; and strong 
of body. 
Makara: Covetous; coward; wanderer; poor; bereft of comforts; indulgent in unworthy 
acts; adept; opposed to his dear ones and enjoying the wealth of others. 
Kumbha: Bereft of comforts as well as children; strong of limb; indulgent in base and 
unworthy acts; short tempered; too fixed in his ideas; inconsistent in friendship; prone to 
heart disease. 
Note: The Sun is uncomfortable in the signs of Saturn who happens to be his bitter 



enemy although also his son. The Sun also signifies the heart. 
Meena:Blessed with friends and a loving wife; learned; destroyer of enemies; earning 
through the sale of articles procured from water, or through land and irrigation; respected 
by women; having many brothers; and suffering from some secret ailment. 
Aspects on The Sun in Different Signs 
I. In the signs of Mars (Mesha and Vrischika) 
(a) Moon: Charitable; delicate body; good looking; many servants; fond of women. 
(b) Mars: Very strong; cruel; red-eyed; retains composure in war. 
(c) Mercury: Bereft of courage, comfort and wealth; servile; weak and ugly. 
Note: Mercury cannot aspect the Sun in a Rashi chart. Are these results to be applied to 

divisional charts? 
(d) Jupiter: Wealthy; minister or judge; charitable; respected among his family 

members. 
(e) Venus: Interested in women of ill-repute; opposed by many; poor; few friends; 

suffers from skin disease. 
Note: Venus too, like Mercury, cannot aspect the Sun in a Rashi chart. 
(f) Saturn: Devoid of courage; ailing; little intelligence; ugly. 
2. In the signs ofVenus (Vrisha and Tula) 
(a) Moon: Many wives; attached to women of ill-repute; earns through professions 

related to water. 
(b) Mars: Retains composure in war; strong and courageous; earns through his own 

efforts. 
(c) Mercury: Adept in music, poetry and book writing; good in looks. 
(d) Jupiter: Many friends and foes; minister; wealthy and satisfied. 
(e) Venus: Beautiful eyes; coward; minister to a king; wealthy. 
(f) Saturn: lazy; poor; ailing; cohabiting with old women. 
3. In signs of Mercury (Mithuna and Kanya) 
(a) Moon: Tormented by friends and foes alike; always sad; troubled by foreign travel 

and residence. 
(b) Mars: Afraid of enemies; quarrelsome; conquered in war; sad and humiliated. 
(c) Mercury: Kingly qualities; famous; blessed with friends; devoid of foes; suffers 

from disease of the eye. 
(d) Jupiter: Very learned, knows secret mantras; aggressive, prone to lose mental poise; 

frequent foreign travel or residence. 
(e) Venus: Comforted by wife, children and wealth; good looking, healthy. 



(f) Saturn: Easily excited; foolish; tricky; with many servants. 
4. In the Moon's sign (Karka) 
(a) Moon: Equivalent to a king; cruel; earns wealth through pursuits related to water. 
(b) Mars: Suffers from inflammations, perianal ailments etc.; devoid of friends; bereft 

of progeny. 
(c) Mercury: Famous for his learning and status; liked by the king; clever; without foes. 
(d) Jupiter: Ambassador; high status; very famous and versatile. 
(e) Venus: Earning through women; does good to others; brave; sweet tongued. 
(f) Saturn: Suffers from Kapha and Vaata ailments; covets others' wealth; distorted 

wisdom; back-biter. 
5. In his own sign (Simha) 
(a) Moon: Tricky, wise, liked by the king; suffers from Kapha related ailments. 
(b) Mars: Brave and courageous; very clever; lover of several women; feared by others. 
(c) Mercury: Skilled in writing; fond of travel; lacks physical strength. 
(d) Jupiter: Builder oftemples, orchards, ponds, etc.; strong; wise; loves solitude. 
(e) Venus: Cruel; shameless; disliked by his relatives; skin ailment. 
(f) Saturn: Torments his near and dear ones; spoils others' work; suffers impotence. 
6. In the signs of Jupiter (Dhanu and Meena) 
(a) Moon: Blessed with sons, learning and fame; good to look at; equal to a king; 

contented. 
(b) Mars: Earns fame in war; aggressive; clear speech; wealthy and comfortable. 
(c) Mercury: Poet; linguist; sweet tongued; liked by others; possesses knowledge of 

minerals, metals etc. 
(d) Jupiter: Learned; wealthy; associates with the king. 
(e) Venus: Blessed with a virtuous and beautiful wife; good clothes. 
(f) Saturn: Unclean; serves the sinners; covets others' food; tends cattle. 
7. In the signs of Saturn (Makara and Kumbha) 
(a) Moon: Trickster; unstable mind; loses money and comfort through association with 

women. 
(b) Mars: Tormented by illness and enemy; physical injury. 
(c) Mercury: Brave; of the nature of eunuchs; unclean body; covets the wealth of 

others. 
(d) Jupiter: Wise; famous; provides refuge to many. 



(e) Venus: Earns his living by dealing in conch shells and the like; gains from women 
of ill-repute. 

(f) Saturn: Annihilator of foes; earns the confidence of the king; happy. 



The Moon in Different Signs 

Mesha: Easily angered; wealthy; without brothers (and sisters); blessed with sons; 
courageous; wanderer; inconsistent; lustful; pleasing to women; honoured by the ruler; 
scared of going into water; weak-kneed, having round and pretty eyes, disfigured nails 
and scarred head; scanty hair on the body. 
Vrisha: Charitable; curly hair; sensuous; honoured; blessed with physical pleasures; very 
courageous; strong; father of many daughters; having prominent face, shoulders, thighs, 
knees and feet; deprived of money, family and progeny; forgiving in nature; stable in 
friendship. Moon in the first half of Vrisha is adverse for mother, in the second half for 
father. 
Mithuna: Poet; blessed with physical pleasures, skillful in sexual act; good looking; highly 
intelligent; jovial; versed in scriptures, interprets hidden thoughts; pleasant eyes, sweet 
tongued. 
Karka: Of fluctuating wealth; knower of astrology; fast in walking; blessed with houses, 
land, fortune and friends; indulgent in physical pleasures; liable to lose his cool; likes 
water sports, orchards and watery places. 
Simha: Frequents hills and jungles; broad face, neck and bones; energetic; scanty hair on 
the head; hater of women; tormented by hunger, thirst, and abdominal and dental 
ailments; likes animal food; charitable; aggressive; few sons; devoted to his parents; 
indulges in physical pleasures. 
Kanya: Fond of women and tormented by them; of pleasing looks; very learned; teacher; 
religiously inclined; sweet tongued, truthful, composed; does good to others; forgiving 
nature; many daughters and few sons; likes song, dance and music; enjoys the wealth of 
others; lives in a foreign land. 
Tula: Prominent nose and eyes, slim-bodied; hen-pecked; devoted to gods, Brahmins and 
to the virtuous; skilled in trade; doesn't covet others' wealth; of fluctuating fortune; 
forgiving in nature; defective of some limb; ailing; helpful to relatives and abandoned by 
them. 
Vrischika: Sickly in early age; strong of body; covetous; atheist; pretty eyes; wealthy; 
fond of others' wives; cruel hearted; bereft of relatives; deprived of his wealth by the 
ruler; having prominent abdomen and forehead; indulges in secret sins. 
Dhanu: Of a Sattvik nature; wealthy; haughty; versed in several arts; inherits property; 
charitable; strong; eloquent speaker; poet; religiously inclined; opposed to his own 
relatives; very courageous; yields only to love and kindness. 
Makara: Versed in music; learned; subdued by women; charitable and forgiving; pleasing 
to his wife; religiously inclined; wanderer; lazy; intolerant of cold or chill; beautiful eyes 
and skin; beautiful and tall body. 
Kumbha: Indolent; clever; attached to others' wives; sinful; sculptor; liked by friends; ill-
natured; poor; enjoys the wealth of others. 
Meen: Very talented; earning by dealing in produce of the ocean, like pearls, etc.; 
devoted to his wife and children; sculptor; overcomes his opponents; easily yields to 
women; good natured and charitable; has a beautiful and symmetrical body. 



Aspects on the Moon in Different Signs 
I. InMesha 
(a) Sun: Short temper; poor; beggar. 
(b) Mars: Suffers from dental and eye ailments; injury from weapons; high status; 

ailments of the urinary system. 
(c) Mercury: Learned; good speaker and poet; famous. 
(d) Jupiter: Equal to a king in status; wealthy. 
(e) Venus: Very amiable; virtuous; good speaker. 
(f) Saturn: Sickly; liar; thief. 
2. In Vrisha: 
(a) Sun: Devoted to agriculture; undergoes hard labour; servile. 
(b) Mars: Excessively indulgent in sex; liked by women; associates with good people; 

bereft of property. 
(c) Mercury: Learned; eloquent speaker; highly talented. 
(d) Jupiter: Virtuous; famous; adorable; blessed with good wife and children. 
(e) Venus: Blessed with numerous physical comforts; equivalent to a king. 
(f) Saturn: Wealthy; ill-natured; bad for mother. 
3. In Mithuna 
(a) Sun: Poor; clever; good looking; suffers miseries. 
(b) Mars: Very brave; learned; dealer in weapons; defective in some limb. 
(c) Mercury: Equal to a king; confidant; overcomes his opponents. 
(d) Jupiter: Sagacious; a teacher; learned. 
(e) Venus: Bereft of fear; blessed with beautiful wife, conveyances and ornaments. 
(f) Saturn: Bereft of wealth, wife, vehicle and progeny; a weaver. 
4. In Karka 
(a) Sun: Eye disease; looks after a king's fort; poor. 
(b) Mars: Valiant; high status; weak body. 
(c) Mercury: Learned; poet; a minister. 
(d) Jupiter: Learned; famous; valiant; a king. 
(e) Venus: Blessed with precious gems and ornaments; good to look at; associates with 

women of ill-repute. 
(f) Saturn: Wanderer; hostile to mother; dealer in iron or weapons. 



5. In Simha 
(a) Sun: Blessed with good qualities; brave; equal to a king; delay or denial of progeny. 
(b) Mars: Equal to a king; commander of an army; easily angered. 
(c) Mercury: Devoted to wife; learned; astrologer. 
(d) Jupiter: Wealthy; Virtuous; famous. 
(e) Venus: Learned; sickly; devoted to wife; equal to a king. 
(f) Saturn: Takes to agriculture; bereft of wealth and home comforts; sinner; a barber. 
6. In Kanya 
(a) Sun: Serves women; varied comforts. 
(b) Mars: Sculptor; famous; wealthy; eager for battle. 
(c) Mercury: A poet or astrologer; winner in a debate; equal to a king. 
(d) Jupiter: Liked by the king; leader of an army; keeps his word. 
(e) Venus: Many wives; wealthy; learned; highly talented. 
(f) Saturn: Bereft of wealth and wisdom; dependant upon women; poor memory. 
7. In Tula 
(a) Sun: A wanderer; sickly; poor; humiliated; without any comforts. 
(b) Mars: Ill-tempered; addicted to others' wives; a killer; suffers eye disease. 
(c) Mercury: Possesses many talents; very wealthy; learned; good speaker. 
(d) Jupiter: Highly respected; dealer in gold and precious stones. 
(e) Venus: Healthy; good looking; wealthy; learned; a trader. 
(f) Saturn: Cruel; wealthy; indulges in physical pleasures. 
8. In Vrischika 
(a) Sun: Learned; wanderer; devoid of comforts and wealth; disliked by others. 
(b) Mars: Famous; equal to a king; winner in a war; voracious eater. 
(c) Mercury: Crude in speech; father of twins; capable. 
(d) Jupiter: Adheres to norms; good looking. 
(e) Venus: Wealthy; pleasant; knower of others' weaknesses; a washerman. 
(f) Saturn: Sickly; defective of some limb; greedy. 
9. In Dhanu 
(a) Sun: Wealthy; famous; equivalent to a king. 
(b) Mars: Leader of an army; wealthy; valorous; famous. 



(c) Mercury: Sculptor; astrologer; defends his near and dear ones. 
(d) Jupiter: Beautiful body; religiously inclined; a minister; high status; wealthy. 
(e) Venus: Good looking; several comforts; blessed with good friends and wife; offers 

refuge to many. 
(f) Saturn: Good speaker; possesses strength; inclined to philosophical learning; 

arrogant; addicted to courtesans. 
I 0. In Makara 
(a) Sun: Poor; wanderer; ugly; helps others. 
(b) Mars: Famous; equal to a king; wealthy and fortunate. 
(c) Mercury: Equal to a king; shunned by wife and children. 
(d) Jupiter: Very valorous; a king; blessed with many wives, children and friends. 
(e) Venus: Learned; enjoys the wealth and women of others. 
(f) Saturn: Indolent; ugly; rich; addicted to others' wives. 
I I . In Kumbha 
(a) Sun: Ugly; immoral; takes to agriculture. 
(b) Mars: Truthful; lazy; servile; wicked. 
(c) Mercury: Blessed with physical comforts; good speaker; equal to a king. 
(d) Jupiter: Equal to a king; blessed with status and possessions. 
(e) Venus: Addicted to women not his own; devoid of physical pleasures; sinner; 

coward. 
(f) Saturn: Addicted to others wives; irreligious. Benefic aspects ensure fame and 

prosperity. 
12. In Meena 
(a) Sun: Very sensuous (under the influence of Kamadeva, the god of sexual union!); 

rich; leader of an army; a sinner. 
(b) Mars: Wicked; humiliated; bereft of comforts. 
(c) Mercury: Very witty; wealthy and famous; enjoys others' wives. 
(d) Jupiter: Good looking; very wealthy; enjoys many women; equal to a king. 
(e) Venus: Learned; amiable; indulges in music, dance and singing. 
(f) Saturn: Tormented by sexual urge; addicted to low and ugly women; a sinner. 



Mars in Different Signs 

Mesha: Truthful; bold; eager for battle; endowed with fame and wealth; good speech; 
liked by all; blessed with cattle and agricultural produce; easily angered; and associates 
with many women. 
Vrisha: Many enemies; few comforts; foul-tongued; a sinner; singer; tends to corrupt 
virtuous women. 
Mithuna: Big family; good looking; knows many subjects; poet, sculptor; religiously 
inclined; inclined to go abroad. 
Karka: Lives and eats in the house of others; sickly; miserable; earns from land and water-
related pursuits. 
Simha: Valorous; poor; frequents forests; undertakes strenuous work; intolerant; likes 
hunting; irreligious tendancies; tends to lose his first wife. 
Kanya: Wealthy; large family; sweet tongued; learned; spend-thrift; religiously inclined; 
frightened by enemies. 
Tula: Wanderer; speaker; good looking; loves his wife, preceptors and friends; likely to 
lose his first wife. 
Vrischika: Conqueror; truthful; leader of a gang of thieves; tormentor of foes; sustains 
injury from poison, fire or weapon. 
Dhanu: High status; weakened from injuries by weapons; bitter tongued; inclined towards 
hard labour; disrespectful to his preceptors and elders. 
Makara: Leader of an army; a king; courageous in battle; earns through his personal 
efforts; resides in his own country. 
Kumbha: Sickly; opposed to his own people; lacks humility; liar, jealous, unfortunate; 
having a hairy body. 
Meena: Humiliated by his own people; disrespectful to Brahmins and preceptors; sickly; 
wicked; residing abroad; enjoys being praised. 
Aspects on Mars in Different Signs 
1. In its own signs 
(a) Sun: A minister or judge; good speaker; blessed with money, wife and sons. 
(b) Moon: Brave; addicted to others' wives; physical injuries; adverse for mother. 
(c) Mercury: Sensual; addicted to women of easy morals; covets others' wealth. 
(d) Jupiter: Learned; sweet tongued; devoted to his father; wealthy. 
(e) Venus: Voracious eater; suffers on account of women. 
(f) Saturn: Addicted to others' wives; shunned by his own people; weak-bodied. 
2. ln signs of Venus 



(a) Sun: Wanders in forests and mountains; easily angered; hates women. 
(b) Moon: Opposed to his mother; coward; addicted to several women. 
(c) Mercury: Learned; inclined to much talking; quarrelsome; good looking. 
(d) Jupiter: Fortunate; indulges in dance and music. 
(e) Venus: Worthy ofpraise; minister; commander; blessed with many comforts. 
(f) Saturn: Famous; amiable; wealthy; learned. 
3. In signs of Mercury 
(a) Sun: Learned; wealthy; valorous; dweller of forests, mountains or forts. 
(b) Moon: Leader of women; amiable; wise; wealthy; takes to security of the ruler. 
(c) Mercury: Talks excessively; loves poetry; versed in mathematics; tells pleasing lies. 
(d) Jupiter: Ambassador or a king; very skilful; leader of men; quits his country. 
(e) Venus: Wealthy; enjoys good food and clothes; devoted to his wife. 
(f) Saturn: Takes to agriculture; lazy; brave; ugly. 
4. In the Moon's sign 
(a) Sun: Suffers from excess of Pitta; a judge; capable of inflicting punishment. 
(b) Moon: Sickly; of low character; ordinary looks. 
(c) Mercury: Ugly; shameless; sinner; bereft of friends. 
(d) Jupiter: Famous; learned; high official status. 
(e) Venus: Tormented by association with women; suffers humiliation; loses money in 

wicked deeds. 
(f) Saturn: Travels, and earns, by sea; good looking; equivalent to a king. 
5. In the Sun's sign 
(a) Sun: Wanders in woods and mountains; aggressive; protects his own people. 
(b) Moon: Tough body; cruel hearted; adverse for mother; skilful and intelligent. 
(c) Mercury: Sculptor or painter; poet; greedy; very clever. 
(d) Jupiter: Leader of an army; liked by the king; learned; fulfils the desires of many 

people. 
(e) Venus: Good looking; enjoys many women; famous; youthful. 
(f) Saturn: Looks older for his age; poor; worrisome; lives in others' houses. 
6. In signs of Jupiter 
(a) Sun: Adored by men; lives in woods or mountains or forts; cruel nature. 



(b) Moon: Quarrelsome; learned; opposed to the king. 
(c) Mercury: Very clever; learned; sculptor; amiable. 
(d) Jupiter: Leaves his place of residence; bereft of wife and comforts; ever engaged in 

overcoming his foes. 
(e) Venus: Addicted to women; blessed with many comforts. 
(f) Saturn: Servile; ever wandering; poor looks; sinful. 
7. In signs of Saturn 
(a) Sun: Aggressive; brave; blessed with wealth, wife and progeny. 
(b) Moon: Hostile to mother; inconsistent in friendship; displaced from his place of 

residence. 
(c) Mercury: Very sweet tongued; poor; weak; deceitful and irreligious. 
(d) Jupiter: Long-lived; good looking; liked by the king; and blessed with brothers. 
(e) Venus: Quarrelsome; hen-pecked; blessed with numerous comforts. 
(f) Saturn: Very wealthy; hates women; many children; learned; equal to a king, and 

valorous in battle. 



Mercurv in Different Signs 

Mesha: Wicked; quarrelsome; cunning; slim-bodied; liar; of changing mind; versed in 
singing and dance; fond of sexual union; voracious eater; wastes money; suffers debts 
and imprisonment. 
Vrisha: Wealthy; trustworthy; charitable; skilled in many arts; clever; sensual; famous; 
versed in music; witty. 
Mithuna: Fine clothes; wealthy; good speaker or orator; proud; disinclined towards sex; 
brought up by two mothers; versed in Vedas and Shastras; and generally comfortable. 
Karka: Scholarly; residing in foreign country; addicted to pretty women; excessive talker; 
wickedly inclined; opposed to his friends and relatives; poet, singer, a dancer; earns 
through water-related pursuits. 
Simha: Wanderer; devoid of learning; famous; liar; poor memory; bereft of wealth and 
property; disliked by women; and servile. 
Kanya: Religiously inclined; learned; poet, writer, orator; honoured; fearless; 
arguementative; forgiving in nature. 
Tula: Clever in speech; versed in several arts; keen to spend his money; devoted to gods, 
Brahmins and preceptors; trader; indulges in physical pleasures. 
Vrischika: Industrious; irreligious; shameless; cruel; greedy; associates with wicked 
women; deceitful; covets the wealth and belongings of others. 
Dhanu: Learned; scholarly; famous; forgiving; versed in scriptures; a renunciant; brave; 
wealthy; a teacher or preceptor, writer; clever speaker; associates with worthy women. 
Makara: Servile; foolish; impotent; liar, back-biter; shunned by his relatives; very fickle; 
desirous of physical pleasures; ugly and coward. 
Kumbha: Troubled by opponents; impotent; shuns the prescribed duties; unclean; 
uncultured; defective speech; servile and coward. 
Meena: Good natured; pious; lives in distant lands; capable; liked by friends; helps others 
while himself poor. 
Aspects on Mercury in Different Signs 
I . In signs of Mars 
(a) Sun: truthful; loved by his brothers; endowed with physical pleasures. 
(b) Moon: Lover of dance and music; fond of women; sensuous; wicked; blessed with 

servants and vehicles. 
(c) Mars: Resorts to falsehood; good speaker; quarrelsome; learned and very rich; 

suffers from thirst. 
(d) Jupiter: Wealthy; happy; endowed with soft skin and hair. 
(e) Venus: Clever speaker; polite; trustworthy; liked by women. 
(f) Saturn: Cruel; courageous; aggressive; and miserable. 



2. In signs of Venus 
(a) Sun: Sickly; poor; servile; suffers humiliations. 
(b) Moon: Rich; trustworthy; healthy; famous; serves the ruler. 
(c) Mars: Humiliated by the ruler; tormented by disease and by opponents; deprived of 

physical pleasures. 
(d) Jupiter: Learned; trustworthy; leader of his town or village; famous. 
(e) Venus: Fortunate; good clothes and ornaments; young women fall for him. 
(f) Saturn: Devoid of comforts; tormented by wife, children or friends. 
3. In its own signs 
(a) Sun: Truthful; good looking; liked by the ruler. 
(b) Moon: Fond of scriptures; sweet tongued but excessive talker; quarrelsome. 
(c) Mars: Liked by others; serves the ruler; back-biter. 
(d) Jupiter: High governmental status; good looking; wealthy; brave. 
(e) Venus: Scholarly; employed by the king; finn in friendship; addicted to wicked 

women. 
(f) Saturn: Kind hearted; pursues his undertakings to accomplishment; wealthy, 
4. In the Moon's sign 
(a) Sun: Washerman; gardner; builder; goldsmith; maker of garlands. 
(b) Moon: Suffers physical torments /ailments through women; weak-bodied; bereft of 

comforts. 
(c) Mars: Limited education; excessive talker; good in looks; tells likeable lies; thievish. 
(d) Jupiter: Wise; kind-hearted; fortunate; learned; honoured by the ruler. 
(e) Venus: Beautiful like Kamadeva (the god of Love); sweet tongued; versed in dance 

and music. 
(f) Saturn: Deceitful; wicked; thankless; suffers imprisonment. 
5. In the Sun's sign 
(a) Sun: Jealous; servile; cruel; fickle and shameless. 
(b) Moon: Good in looks; capable; fond of poetry, dance and music; wealthy; well-

dressed. 
(c) Mars: Wicked; unwise; miserable; suffers physical injuries. 
(d) Jupiter: Tender body; very learned; impressive speaker; high status with the king. 
(e) Venus: Beautiful body; pleasure loving; wealthy. 
(f) Saturn: Tall in stature; miserable; foul odour emits from his body. 



6. In the signs of Jupiter 
(a) Sun: Brave; cool-tempered; suffers from renal stones, diabetes, etc. 
(b) Moon: Writer; good in looks; liked by all; company offriends. 
(c) Mars: Writer; leader ofthieves. 
(d) Jupiter: Very learned; remarkable memory; pious; good looking; high status; 

treasurer to a king. 
(e) Venus: Minister; youthful; brave; a thief. 
(f) Saturn: Resides in a fort or a forest; voracious appetite; wicked; incompetent. 
7. In the signs of Saturn 
(a) Sun: Large family; wicked nature; proficient wrestler; voracious appetite; famous. 
(b) Moon: Earns through water-related pursuits; a trader in liquors; coward. 
(c) Mars: Disinclined to activity; shy; good natured; wealthy. 
(d) Jupiter: Very wealthy; famous; leader of his village or town. 
(e) Venus: Many children; lacking in looks; very sensuous; husband of a wicked 

woman. 
(f) Saturn: Sinner; poor; servile; miserable and destitute. 



Jupiter in Different Signs 

Mesha: Of a pious nature; argumentative; blessed with ornaments and precious stones; 
wealthy; famous; adorable; spender of money; opposed by many; cruel; body scarred by 
injuries. 
Vrisha: Obese; healthy; devoted to gods, Brahmins and cows; good in looks; fortunate; 
devoted to his own wife; blessed with lands and cattle; wise and benevolent. 
Mithuna: A minister; blessed with friends and sons; good looking; beautiful eyes; orator; 
religious! y inclined. 
Karka: Wealthy; learned; beautiful body; religiously inclined; strong; truthful; adorable; 
equal to a king. 
Simha: Strong; learned; wealthy; pious; equivalent to a king; leader of an army; 
aggressive; resides in forts, forests and mountains. 
Kanya: Learned; pious; efficient; fond of scents and flowers; tormentor of his opponents; 
versed in several branches of learning. 
Tula: Wise, learned; earns from foreign lands; soft in speech; versed in scriptures; good 
in looks; a trader. 
Vrischika: Versed in several scriptures; commentator of books; clever; associates with 
worthy women; sickly; toilsome; easily angered; indulging in forbidden pursuits. 
Dhanu: A religious preceptor; very wealthy; charitable; helpful to others; learned; of a 
high rank; frequents foreign lands as well as pilgrimages. 
Makara: Servile and toilsome; bereft of physical pleasures; lacks strength; indulgent in 
forbidden deeds; irreligious; coward; lives in distant lands. 
Kumbha: Sickly; greedy; loses money; lacks wisdom; attached to the wife of his 
preceptor; suffers from abdominal and dental diseases. According to Varahamihira, 
Jupiter in Kumbha gives the same results as in Karka. 
Meena: Versed in Vedas and other scriptures; adorable; famous; hairy body. 
Aspects on Jupiter in Different Signs 
I. In the signs of Mars 
(a) Sun: Very pious, religious and truthful; famous; hairy body . 
(b) Moon: Soft-mannered; loved by his wife; religiously inclined; a scholar. 
(c) Mars: Brave; aggressive; destroys the pride of his opponents; leader of many. 
(d) Mercury: Sinner; a cheat; keen to notice the shortcomings of others; polite; resorts 

to falsehood. 
(e) Venus: A coward; blessed with good clothes, ornaments, women and other physical 

pleasures. 
(f) Saturn: Ugly; greedy; unstable in friendship. 



2. In the signs ofVenus 
(a) Sun: Wanderer; learned; serves the ruler; blessed with vehicles, cattle, etc. 
(b) Moon: Very rich; beautiful body; adored by women; indulges in pleasures. 
(c) Mars: Honoured by the ruler; liked by women and children; learned; wealthy. 
(d) Mercury: Learned; clever; likeable; virtuous and good looking. 
(e) Venus: Wealthy; famous; clean; enjoys comforts. 
(f) Saturn: Scholarly; wealthy; head of a village or a town; unclean; shunned by 

women. 
3. In the signs of Mercury 
(a) Sun: Head of a village; large family; well known all around. 
(b) Moon: Virtuous; very famous and wealthy; liked by his mother; good looking; 

unparalleled in good qualities. 
(c) Mars: Ever indulgent in physical pleasures; ever victorious; wealthy; adorable; scars 

from injury to the body. 
(d) Mercury: Proficient astrologer; sculptor; good speaker; blessed with wife and 

children. 
(e) Venus: Blessed with wealth, wife, progeny, lands and houses; addicted to women of 

easy morals. 
(f) Saturn: Head of a village or city; good in looks; honoured by the ruler. 
4. In the Moon's sign 
(a) Sun: Loss of wife's wealth and progeny, followed by the acquisition of them all; 

leader of men. 
(b) Moon: Controls the king's treasure; wealthy; high status; many comforts. 
(c) Mars: Takes young girl for a wife; wealthy; scholarly; marks of injury on the body. 
(d) Mercury: Favours his brothers; wealthy; quarrelsome; trustworthy. 
(e) Venus: Many wives; very famous; fortunate. 
(f) Saturn: Head of a village, a town or an army; excessive talker; physical pleasures in 

old age. 
5. In the Sun's sign 
(a) Sun: Inclined to excessive spending; famous; kind-hearted; a king. 
(b) Moon: Very fortunate; earns wealth through the help of his wife. 
(c) Mars: Truthful to preceptors and friends; performs difficult tasks; pious; cruel; a 

leader. 
(d) Mercury: Builder; scientist; good orator; minister; a scholar and a leader. 



(e) Venus: Fond of women; obtains status from the king; strong. 
(f) Saturn: Excessive talker; bereft of comforts; conquered in battle; fallen from status. 
6. In its own signs 
(a) Sun: Opposed to the ruler; shunned by friends and relatives. 
(b) Moon: Several comforts; desired by women; arrogant from possession of wealth 

and status. 
(c) Mars: Injured in battle; cruel; hurtful; helps others. 
(d) Mercury: A minister or a king; pleases all; blessed with wealth, sons and good 

fortune. 
(e) Venus: Wealthy; contented; famous; learned; long-lived. 
(f) Saturn: Unclean; coward; fallen from status. 
7. In the signs of Saturn 
(a) Sun: Learned; a king; good looking; brave; blessed with several physical comforts. 
(b) Moon: Sharp intellect; religiously inclned; proud; respectful to parents; wealthy and 

learned. 
(c) Mars: Brave; fights for the king; arrogant; courageous; honoured. 
(d) Mercury: Ever yielding to women; leader of a group; rich; religiously inclined; 

driver of a vehicle; many friends. 
(e) Venus: Loved by women; blessed with numerous physical pleasures and 

possessions. 
(f) Saturn: Of a high moral character; learned; famous; equal to a king; given to 

physical comforts. 



Venus in Different Signs 

Mesha: Leader of an army, a town or a group of people; addicted to women not his own; 
suffers imprisonment because of women; eager to go abroad; undependable; keen to 
oppose others; likely to suffer night blindness. 
Vrisha: Blessed with many women and children; taken to agriculture and cattle rearing; 
fond of scents and flowers; bereft of enemies; good in looks. 
Mithuna: Well versed in scriptures; very famous; beautiful body; engaged in writing; 
poet; friendly; earns from song and dance; devoted to God and Brahmins; sensuous. 
Karka: Engaged in good deeds; learned; strong; religiously inclined; blessed with objects 
of desire; good looking; balanced in judgement; clever talker; two wives; suffers sickness 
from indulgence in women and liquor. 
Simha: Monetary gains from women; few children; servile to women; destroyer of 
enemies; devoted to the preceptor and Brahmins; generally comfortable and wealthy. 
Kanya: Very rich; clever in talking to women; simple natured; visits holy places; lacks 
physical comforts; learned. 
Tula: Earns money through his efforts; fond of garlands and good clothes; likes foreign 
visits; learned; religiously inclined; lacks firmness in difficult situations. 
Vrischika: Quarrelsome; hated by others; irreligious; excessive talker; shunned by 
brothers; infamous; skilled in physical violence; poor; disease of private parts of the 
body. 
Dhanu: Given to virtuous deeds; liked by others; wealthy; learned; high rank; obese and 
tall; adored by those around him. 
Makara: Very sensuous; addicted to women older in age; spendthrift; lean body; indulges 
in prohibited deeds; suffers from heart disease; impotent; covets the wealth of others. 
Kumbha: Addicted to other people's wives; irreligious; opposed to his own preceptors 
and children; ugly; bereft of good clothes; worrisome. 
Meena: Very wealthy; overcomes his opponents; famous; given to charities; favoured by 
the ruler; fond of swimming; soft-spoken; learned. 
Aspects on Venus in Different Signs 
1. In the signs of Mars 
(a) Sun: Favoured by the ruler; tormented by his wife; scholarly. 
(b) Moon: Very fickle; suffers incarceration; tormented by excessive sexual urge. 
(c) Mars: Bereft of money and status; servile. 
(d) Mercury: Cruel hearted; wicked; shunned by relatives; earns through illegitimate 

means. 
(e) Jupiter: Good looking; given to charities; tall; good wife; pleasant in manners. 
(f) Saturn: Indolent; ugly; wanderer; thievish; has secret possessions. 



2. In its own signs 

(a) Sun: Beautiful wife; associates with beautiful women; wealthy. 

(b) Moon: Son of a virtuous mother; blessed with sons, wealth and status; good looks; 
associates with women of easy morals. 

(c) Mars: Bereft of home and comforts; sensuous; subjugated in battle. 

(d) Mercury: Learned; good mannered; sensuous; virtuous and famous. 

(e) Jupiter: Obtains all objects of desire, like friends, women, children, vehicles, houses, 

etc. 

(f) Saturn: Poor; wicked; sickly; husband of a wicked woman. 

3. In the signs of Mercury 

(a) Sun: Serves women; wise; rich; enjoys comforts. 

(b) Moon: Beautiful hair and eyes; youthful in looks; blessed with various comforts. 

(c) Mars: Fortunate; sensuous; skilful in sexual act; wastes money on women. 

(d) Mercury: Learned; good looking; wealthy; leader of a group of people. 

(e) Jupiter: Learned; preceptor; an artist or photographer; blessed with many comforts. 

(f) Saturn: Suffers humiliation; miserable; shunned by people in general. 

4. In the Moon's sign 

(a) Sun: Easily angered; wealthy wife; troubled by opponents. 
(b) Moon: Daughter as the first issue, followed by sons; treats his mother and step-

mother with equal regards. 
(c) Mars: Versed in various arts; wealthy; troubled by women; favourable to his 

relatives. 

(d) Mercury: Learned; husband of a learned wife; rich; wanderer. 

(e) Jupiter: Blessed with wealth, sons, servants, vehicles and friends; favoured by the 
king. 

(f) Saturn: Overcome by women; poor; fallen; bereft of comforts. 

5. In the Sun's sign 

(a) Sun: Jealous; tormented by sexual urge; earns with the help ofwomen. 

(b) Moon: Inconsistent; two mothers; famous; suffers because ofwomen. 

(c) Mars: Favoured by the ruler; famous; fond of women; addicted to others' wives; 
wealthy. 

(d) Mercury: Hoards things; greedy; given to falsehood; excessive sexual urge. 

(e) Jupiter: High status; blessed with several women and children; rich. 



(f) Saturn: Equal to a king; good looking; husband of a widow. 
6. In the signs of Jupiter 
(a) Sun: Short tempered; learned; wealthy; strong; visits foreign countries. 
(b) Moon: Famous; high status; very strong; blessed with numerous physical pleasures. 
(c) Mars: Hates women; blessed with varied comforts; leader by instinct. 
(d) Mercury: Enjoys ornaments, good dress, good food and good vehicles. 
(e) Jupiter: Many wives and children; very wealthy; numerous physical pleasures. 
(f) Saturn: Fortunate; rich; indulgent in physical pleasures; earns well. 
7. In the signs of Saturn 
(a) Sun: Consistent nature; famous; wealthy and powerful; truthful. 
(b) Moon: Valorous; powerful; beautiful; wealthy. 
(c) Mars: Sickly; exhausted by physical labour; suffers penury. 
(d) Mercury: Learned; accumulates wealth; truthful; very scholarly. 
(e) Jupiter: Youthful; versed in song and music; associates with worthy women; fond of 

good perfumes, garlands and fine clothes. 
(f) Saturn: Dark complexion; blessed with servants and physical comforts. 



Saturn in Different Signs 

Mesha: Weak body; troubled by indulgence in excessive physical labour and pleasures; 
ill-tempered; deceitful; opposed to his near and dear ones; wicked; unclean; hated by 
others; a sinner. 
Vrisha: Poor; servile; attached to elderly women; associates with wicked people; yielding 
to wives of others; versatile; follows socially prohibited norms in the selection of his 
mate. 
Mithuna: Tormented by debts; imprisonment and physical labour; deceitful; inclined to 
sexual pleasures; lazy; wicked. 
Karka: Weak constitution; bereft of mother; poor; sickly in childhood; learned; opposed 
to his relatives and friends; famous. 
Simha: Skilful writer; quarrelsome; deviates from accepted social norms; miserable; 
servile; bereft of wife and friends; indulges in prohibited deeds; easily angered. 
Kanya: Wicked; a failure; fickle; of the nature of a eunuch; addicted to women of easy 
morals; a sculptor; helpful to others; possesses wealth and progeny. 
Tula: Equal to a king; excessively given to sexual pleasures; good speaker; honoured in 
an assembly; wanderer; associates with women who are given to dance or wickedness. 
Vrischika: Injury from fire, weapon or poison; ill-tempered; conceited; capable of 
aquiring others' wealth; indulges in prohibited deeds; insincere; suffers losses and illness. 
Dhanu: Widely famous; contented; good earnings; well versed in several branches of 
knowledge; good children; man of a few words; honoured by all. 
Makara: Devoted to the ruler; controls women and property belonging to others; learned; 
sculptor; adorable; famous; visits foreign countries; courageous. 
Kumbha: Very rich; deceitful; given to drinking; addicted to other people's wives; 
wicked and fickle; irreligious. 
Meena: Widely respected; helpful to others; wealthy; engaged in religious pursuits; mild 
mannered; cool tempered; possesses knowledge about precious stones. 
Aspects on Saturn in Different Signs 
I . In signs of Mars 
(a) Sun: Given to agriculture; rich; rears cattle. 
(b) Moon: Associates with low people; fickle; wicked; addicted to wicked and ugly 

women. 
(c) Mars: Wretched; cruel to animals; leader of thieves; indulges in meat, women and 

wine. 
(d) Mercury: Quarrelsome; irreligious; voracious eater; a famous thief. 
(e) Jupiter: Religiously inclined; fortunate; high status with the king; a minister; 

wealthy. 



(f) Venus: Ever changeable nature; ill-looking; addicted to others' wives; destitute. 
2. In the signs ofVenus 
(a) Sun: Lacks wealth; learned; weak of body; speaks clearly. 
(b) Moon: High status with the ruler; liked and helped by women; good clothes and 

ornaments. 
(c) Mars: Skilled in warfare; kind-hearted; excessive talker; rich. 
(d) Mercury: Very witty; keen to please women; liked by the king. 
(e) Jupiter: Helpful to others; given to charities; skilful. 
(f) Venus: Liked by the ruler; benefits from precious stones; indulges in wine and 

women. 
3. In the signs of Mercury 
(a) Sun: Bereft ofwealth, pleasures and anger; religiously inclined; contented. 
(b) Moon: Equal to a king; soft skin; loved and respected by women. 
(c) Mars: A fighter or wrestler; wise; defective of limb; well known. 
(d) Mercury: Wealthy; skilled in fighting and dancing; talented singer, painter or 

sculptor. 
(e) Jupiter: Favoured by the ruler; virtuous; liked by his friends. 
(f) Venus: Fond of women; versed in Yoga Shastra; skilful in serving women. 
4. In the Moon's sign 
(a) Sun: Loses his father in early age; bereft of money, wife and comforts; a sinner. 
(b) Moon: Wealthy; hurtful to mother and brothers. 
(c) Mars: Lacks strength; favoured by the ruler; worrisome. 
(d) Mercury: Wanderer; deceitful; cruel; orator. 
(e) Jupiter: Possesses friends, sons, lands and houses; wealthy. 
(f) Venus: Bereft of comforts, despite being born in a good family. 
5. In the Sun's sign 
(a) Sun: Without money, comforts and good qualities; resorts to falsehood; fond of 

drinking; slim body; miserable. 
(b) Moon: Blessed with fame, wealth, women, and precious stones; favoured by the 

ruler. 
(c) Mars: Wanderer; resides in a fort or on a mountain; cruel and fighter. 
(d) Mercury: Deceitful; indolent; poor and ugly. 
(e) Jupiter: Leader of a village, town or a group of people; wealthy; virtuous. 



(f) Venus: Good looking; wealthy; troubles from women. 
6. In the signs ofJupiter 
(a) Sun: Famous; fond of others' children. 
(b) Moon: Deprived of mother; blessed with wife, sons and riches. 
(c) Mars: Suffers from Vaata-related illnesses; lives in foreign lands. 
(d) Mercury: Equal to a king; respectable; rich; good in looks. 
(e) Jupiter: Equivalent to a king; commander of an army; powerful. 
(f) Venus: Resides in a foreign land; two mothers or two fathers; follows several 

pursuits at a time. 
7. In its own sign 
(a) Sun: Sickly; husband of an ugly woman; wanderer; miserable; carries loads. 
(b) Moon: Possesses wealth and wife; opposed to mother; given to sexual excess. 
(c) Mars: Courageous; famous; powerful; a leader of multitudes; cruel. 
(d) Mercury: Powerful; easily angered; famous; possesses limited amounts of money. 
(e) Jupiter: Famous; virtuous; long lived and healthy; beautiful body. 
(f) Venus: Very wealthy; sensuous; addicted to women not his own; follows no norms. 



Rahu is particularly favourable in Karka, Kanya, Dhanu and Vrischika. 
Rahu owns Kumbha (or Kanya, according to some) and is exalted in Vrisha. Its 
Moolatrikona sign is Mithuna. 
In the above mentioned signs, Rahu gives favourable results like increase in wealth, help 
from friends and the ruler, varied physical comforts, religious inclinations, new house 
and clothes, and foreign travel with honours. 



Ketu owns Vrischika (or Meena, according to some) and is also exalted in Vrischika. Its 
Moolatrikona is Dhanu. 
In these signs Ketu gives favourable results. 
In general, Rahu and Ketu give benefic results in the signs of Jupiter and Mercury or 
when they are associated with or aspected by Jupiter or Mercury. 

The results of various planets in different signs, and of aspects on these planets, 
have been taken from standard classical texts. These must not be applied literally, but 
only with caution and scientific openness. For example, 'favours from the ruler', in the 
present day context, may only mean a promotion in a government job. Similarly, 'death 
of wife' may only signify a separation or a divorce. The classical dicta must only be 
applied after proper consideration of various other factors which are likely to influence 
the results in a given chart. 



... XX. .. 

N abhasa Yo gas 

None can grasp Him from above, nor obliquely, nor in the 
middle. There exists no likeness of Him whose name is Great 
Fame. 

Shvetashvatara Upanishad 1V /19 

Nabhasa yogas are planetary configurations which give an overall view of a 
person's life pattern. They are not dependent upon planetary lordships, conjunctions or 
aspects. These yogas must be examined before the horoscope is subjected to a detailed 
analysis. The influence of these yogas is felt throughout the life of a native. In other 
words, these yogas do not depend on any dashas to manifest their results. Rahu and Ketu 
are not included in the formation of these yo gas. 

There are four major categories of these yo gas. Under each major category are 
further divisions, which total to thirty-two yogas. Still finer divisions give us 1800 
varieties of these yogas. A resume of these yogas is being given here. 



Major categories of Nabhasa Yogas 

The four categories of Nabhasa Yogas are as under: 
I. Aashraya (i.e., 'refuge'): There are three Aashraya yogas. They depend upon the 
placement of planets in the Chara, the Sthira or the Dwiswabhava rashis. 
2. Dala (i.e., 'side'): There are two of them. 
3. Aakriti (i.e., 'appearance'): Their number is twenty. They are formed by the placement 
ofplanets in specific arcs of the horoscope or in the specific areas ofthe horoscope. 
4. Sankhya (i.e., 'number'): There are seven of these. They depend upon the number of 
houses over which the seven planets are distributed. 



The Aashraya Y ogas 

The three Aashraya yogas are: 
I. Rajju: All planets in Chara rashis (movable signs). One born in this yoga is fond of 
travel, good to look at, visits alien countries and has a cruel nature. 
2. Musala: All planets in Sthira rashis (fixed signs). One born in Musala yoga is learned, 
wealthy, proud, famous and of a stable nature. 
3. Nata: All planets in Dwiswabhava rashis (mixed signs). The native with Nata yoga is 
defective of a limb, very clever, good to look at and fond of his near and dear ones. 

Comments: Planets represent life force. Their accumulation in movable, fixed or 
mixed signs brings appropriate nature of these signs into manifestation. When several 
planets accumulate in movable signs, the person acquires a changeable nature, ambition, 
liking for travel, quick decisions and greater adaptability. Chart XX-1 has no planets in 
fixed signs. lfthe lagna is also a movable sign, the capacity for mobility is greater. On a 
negative side, predominance of planets in movable signs indicates an ever changing 
nature, untrustworthiness, fickle mind, inability to persist with one thing, and continuous 
struggle. 

Sun Yen 
Mercun' 

Ketu' 

Mars 
Jupiter 

Chart X.'{ -1 
~ 

Moon Lagna 

Rahu Sat(R) 

Several planets accumulating in fixed signs lead to stability, fixity, durability, 
determination and trustworthiness. Chart XX-2 shows no planets in movable signs and a 
predominant concentration in fixed signs. There is a tendancy to stay longer in one place, 
and to develop contacts or acquire property. The negative aspect of this yoga indicates 
obstinacy, inability to take quick decisions and difficulty in adjusting to change. As far as 
dual signs are concerned, their first half (0°-t5°) must be considered as fixed (being 
adjacent to a fixed sign) and the second half (15°-30°) as movable (being adjacent to a 
movable sign). 



/} 
Sun 

Lagna Mercury Venus 
Kcm 

Mars 
Chart XX-2 

Jupiter 

Moon Saturn 
Rahu 



The Data Y ogas 

They are: 
I. Maala or Srak: All benefics in three kendras and malefics not in kendras. Maala yoga 
ensures constant enjoyment, vehicles, good food and association with pretty women. 
2. Sarpa: All malefics in three kendras and benefics elsewhere. This leads to miseries, 
dependence, penury and wickedness. 

Comments: 
(i) The Moon should be left out of the formation of Dala yogas. In other words, 
it should neither be treated as a benefic nor a malefic. 
(ii) The kendras are the pillars of a horoscope. Benefics located in kendras give 
very good results while malefics produce adverse results. Benefics located in houses 
other than kendras and trikonas are wasted benefics. 



The Aakriti Y ogas 

Of the twenty Aakriti yogas, the planetary dispositions can be divided into two main 
groups: 
I. The angular group, where different yo gas result from specific angular disposition of 
planets. Nine yo gas fall under this group. 
II. The arc group, where the yo gas result from planets occupying specific arcs (of 
houses) in a horoscope. This group consists of eleven yogas. 
I. The Angular Group 
This group may be further sub-divided into three subgroups as follows: 
A. The Kendra (quadrangular) disposition: The yogas falling under this group are: 

!.Gada: All planets in two adjacent kendras. The native is wealthy, learned and ever 
engaged in earning money. 
2.Shakata: All planets in houses one and seven. This leads to ill health, penury and 
earning only through hard labour. 
3.Pakshi (or Vihaga): All planets located in houses four and ten. The native with 
this yoga is servile, vagrant, quarrelsome and a message-bearer. 
4.Vajra: Benefics in houses one and seven; malefics in houses four and ten. One 
born in this yoga is good in looks, brave, and happy during early life and old age. 
5 .Yava: Malefics in houses one and seven, benefics in houses four and ten. Such a 
native is consistent in nature, wealthy, charitable, and happy in the middle portion 
ofhis life. 
6.Kamala: All planets occupying the four kendras. The native with this yoga 
acquires wide renown, long life, virtuous qualities and royal status. 
Comments: Strong kendras elevate the status of an individual. In Chart XX-3, an 
exalted Venus has strayed into the ninth house; the remaining planets occupy three 
kendras. Rahu and Ketu are not considered in these yogas. In the actual analysis of 
the chart, the nature of planets, their ownership and such other qualities as 
debilitation, exaltation, etc., will have to be considered. 



Venus Sun 
Mercury 

X 
Kctu Lagna 

Mars 
Chart XX-3 

Moon 
Jupiter Rahu 
Saturn 

B. The Non-kendra disposition: 
7.Vaapi: All planets falling in houses other than the four kendras. Such a native is 
engaged in accumulating wealth, has small but lasting comforts, tends to hoard his 
wealth and possessions. 
Comments: In Chart XX-4, all the kendras are unoccupied. There is an 
accumulation of planets (as well as planetary aspects) on the second house. The 
stress here is on accumulation and hoarding. 

Mars 

DC 
Ketu Lagna 

Chart XX-4 
Rahu 

~lcn:ul} 
SunVen 

Jupiter Moon 
Saturn 

According to several authors, Vaapi yoga has two variants: 
(i) All planets falling in Panaphara (successant) houses; and 



(ii) All planets falling in Apoklima (cadent) houses. 
C. The Trikona (Trinal) disposition: 

This includes: 
8.Shringataka: All planets located in trikonas (i.e., houses I, 5 and 9). The native is 
blessed with comforts, fond of combat, and wealthy. 
9 Hala: All planets located in trinal houses 

(a) 2, 6 and 10; or 
(b) 3, 7 and ll;or 
(c)4, 8 and 12. 

The native is servile, poor, engaged in agriculture, and miserable. 
Comments: The four trinal groups of houses have specific functions of Dharma or 
virtuous deeds (houses 1, 5 and 9), Artha or material pursuits (houses 2, 6 and I 0), 
Kama or sensual pleasures (houses 3, 7 and II), and Moksha or emancipation 
(houses 4, 8 and 12). The results attributed to the above yogas must be applied in 
the light of inherent characteristics of the relevant trinal group of houses. 

IL The Arc Group 
A. The Short Arc group: This includes: 

l.Yoopa: All planets located in houses one to four. The native is engaged in 
sacrificial rituals, blessed with home comforts, valorous, and pursues his worldly 
duties. 
Comments: The first four houses are concerned with the self, wealth and 
possessions, courage, and home. The stress here is on stability at home, prosperity, 
and personal efforts toward material and spiritual pursuits. 
2.Shara: All planets in houses four to seven. The result is a native who is cruel, 
wicked, a hunter, a jailor, and engaged in making arrows. 
Comments: The four houses involved in this yoga are concerned with home, 
investment, intellect, crime, theft, sex, etc. There is earning of wealth through a 
greater movement away from home as compared to the preceding yoga. 
3.Shakti: All planets occupying the houses seven to ten. The native with this yoga is 
poor, wicked, lazy, long-lived, stable, good to look at, and tormented by failures. 
Comments: This yoga involves the houses concerned with sex, obstacles, virtue and 
activity. The involvement of the eighth house involves obstacles, failures, 
transgression of norms, hidden talents and ill-health. Being part of the visible 
zodiac (houses 7 to 1), it involves public exposure, fame, recognition, notoriety, 
and a non-conformist attitude. Such natives are more outgoing. 
4.Danda: All planets located in houses ten to one. Such a native is bereft of all 
comforts, devoid of near and dear ones, poor, servile and rejected. 
Comments: The houses involved in this yoga involve work, earnings, spending, 



emancipation, distant residence, spiritual actiVIty, etc. This yoga is considered 
adverse for material possessions and comforts. 

B. The Long Arc Group: This includes: 
5.Nauka: Planets continuously occupying houses one to seven. This makes the 
native famous, miserly, greedy, ambitious, earning through water-related pursuits. 
Comments: Involves the invisible half of the zodiac. Not all qualities and 
deficiencies of the native receive recognition. 
6.Koota: Planets continuously occupying the houses four to ten. The result is an 
untruthful native, a jailor, cruel, inclined to live in a fort or on hilly areas. 
7.Chhatra: Planets continuously occupying houses seven to one. Such a native 
looks after his dependents, is kind hearted, wise, long-lived, and comfortable in the 
early and concluding portions ofhis life. 
Comments: This involves the complete visible half of the horoscope. 
8.Dhanusha (Chaapa): Planets continuously occupying houses ten to four. The 
native is brave, a jailor, a thief, a wanderer, and happy in the middle portion of his 
life. 
9.Ardha-Chandra: This yoga is formed when the seven planets occupy seven 
contiguous houses starting from houses other than the kendras. Eight such yogas 
are formed as the planets occupy the seven houses starting from the 2nd, the 3rd, 
the 5th, the 6th, the 8th, the 9th, the 11th or the 12th house. The native is a 
commander of an army, good in looks, wealthy, brave, and honoured by the ruler. 
Comments: In all the above yo gas, the interaction of planets, houses, house lords, 
and signs is of essence. 

C. The Interrupted Arc Group: This consists of: 
IO.Chakra: Planets in six alternate houses starting from the lagna (i.e., the six odd 
houses). The native is a king or his equivalent. 
ll.Samudra: Planets in six alternate houses starting from the second house (i.e., the 
six even houses). The native is wealthy, blessed with physical pleasures, likeable, 
virtuous and stable of mind. 
Comments: The preceding two yo gas stress the importance of planets placed in 
alternate houses, mutually 3/11 or 5/9 in position. Chart XX-5 shows a disposition 
of most of the planets in alternate houses. Although it is not forming an exact 
Chakra yoga, such a disposition of planets is considered highly favourable .. The 
native of this chart is a high ranking administrative official. 



The Sankhva Y ogas 

There are seven of these yo gas which depend upon the number of rashis the seven planes 
occupy in a horoscope. 
l.Veena: The seven planets occupying seven different rashis in a chart. The native is fond 
ofmusic and dance, skillful, wealthy, a leader. 
2.Daama (or Daamani): Planets distributed over six rashis. The native is liberal, 
renowned, wealthy, learned, and earns through legitimate means. 
3 .Paasha: Planets distributed over five rashis. The native has a large family, is adept in 
work, skillful in earning wealth, impolite, crafty. 
4.Kedaara: Planets located in four rashis in a chart. Such a native does good to many, is 
truthful and wealthy, and resorts to agriculture. 
5.Shoola: All planets restricted to three rashis only. The native is lazy, cruel, socially 
rejected, injured and scarred, a fighter. 
6.Yuga: Planets restricted to two rashis only. The native is poor, heretic, socially rejected, 
devoid of mother, father and virtue. 
7 .Gola: Planets confined to one rashi. The native with such a yoga is a destitute, illiterate, 
wicked, miserable, ever wandering. 
Comments: The Sankhya yogas are concerned with the distribution of planets in the 
horoscope. When the planets are distributed over a larger number of houses, there is 
greater balance and a wider range of interests that a native pursues. 

As the planets get restricted to fewer and fewer houses, the life force signified by 
the planets is concentrated in specific areas. This causes strengthening of certain houses 
but an overall imbalance and weakness. 



Summary 

The Nabhasa yo gas indicate a native's pattern of life, his inclinations, strong points and 
weaknesses. They give results all through his life and do not depend on any dashas. 
By definition, yo gas belonging to one group may coincide with yo gas of another group. 
In such situations certain rules must be followed. These are hinted at below. 
1. Sankhya yogas are applicable only if other yogas mentioned herein do not obtain 
simultaneously in a horoscopic chart. For example, if there are seven planets distributed 
in seven contiguous or alternate houses, one of the Aakriti yo gas will be formed as also 
the Sankhya yoga. In such a situation, the results as described for the particular Aakriti 
yoga will manifest. 
2. When Aashraya yogas coincide with an Aakriti yoga, again the Aakriti yoga takes 
precedence. 
3. The Sankhya yogas called Kedaara, Shoola and Yuga become inoperative if they 
coincide at the same time with an Aashraya yoga. However, if Gola yoga coincides with 
an Aashraya yoga, the former remains operative and the latter becomes inoperative. 
The formation and the order of the Nabhasa Yogas as mentioned in the classical works is 
briefly shown in Table :XX-1. 

TableX..X-1 
Fonnation and orderofthe Nabhasa Yogas 

as mentioned in the classical texts 

Major Yo gas Formation 
Category 

I. Aashraya I. Rajjn AUpL1 nets in Chara rash~. 
2. Musala AllpL1nets in Sthira rashis. 
3. Nala Allplanets in Dwiswabhava rashis. 

II. Dala 1. Maala (Srak) Allbenefics in three kendras; 
malefics not in kendras. 

2. Sarpa A1 1 ma !dies in three kendras; 
benefics not in kendras. 



llL\akrili 1. Gada All planets in two adjacent kendm. 
1. Shakata An planets in houses 1 and 7. 
3. Pakshi (\"ihaga) AD planets in houses 4 and 10. 
4. Sluingataka All planets in trikonas (1, 5, 9). 
5. Hala An planets in houses: 

(a) 2, 6 and 10; or 
(b) 3, 7 and 11; or 
(c) 4, 8 and 12. 

6. \"ajra Benefics in houses 1 and 7; 
ma lerics in 4 and 10. 

7. Yara :\Ia lefics in houses 1 and 7; 
ben dies in 4 and 10. 

8. Kama Ia AD planets in four kendras. 
9. \"aapi ..\ n planets in houses other than 

keodras. 
10. Yoopa An planets in houses 1 to 4. 
11. Shara An planets in houses 4 to 7. 
12.Sbakti .-\ ll planets in houses 7 IO 10. 
13. Danda All planets in houses 10 to 1. 
14. :'iauka Pia nets occup~·ing houses 1 to 7 

in COD tinuj~·. 

15. Koota Planets occupying houses 4to 10 
in con linui~·. 

16. Chhatra All planets occupying houses 
7 to 1 in continuity. 

17. Dhauusha All planets occupying houses 
(Chaapa) 10 to 4 in continuity. 

18 . .\rdhachandra The seren pbnets occupying senn houses s1a11ing from 
other than a kendra (8 ~·pes). 

19. Chakra Pia nets in sb; al lernate houses 
from bgna ouwanls (ie., houses 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 and 11). 

20. Samudra Planets in sb; alternate houses 
stat1ing from 2nd house 
onwanls (ie., houses 2, 4, 6, 
8,10 and 12). 



I'\'. Sankhya 1. reeo a All planets distributed over 7 rashis. 
2. Daama All planets distributed over 6 rashis. 
3. Paasha All planets distributed over 5 rashis. 

4. Kedaara All planets distributed over 4 rashis. 

s. Shoola All planets restricted to 3 rashis, 

6. Vuga All planets restricted to 2 rashis. 
7. Gola All planets restricted to 1 rashi. 



... XXI. .. 

Y ogas Based on Ownership of Houses 

~ . 
$~eti~ ..,.9li~((Ort Qo;J€11[1 ~tl{l€1{1!_1 

'tfif ~ ~stcfi;;>J qttu~a"'~~"CO\J®f\0411 
Behold today the whole universe, moving and unmoving and 
whateverelse you desire to see, 0 Gudakesha, all unified in My 
body. 

Gila XI/7 

It has already been explained that planets behave as benefics or malefics depending 
upon the houses they own in a horoscope. This naturally varies with the lagna. The 
lordship of houses by the planets is an extremely important factor in deciding the results 
that accrue from varied planetary dispositions. It is the interaction of different planets, as 
different house lords, that results in the formation of various yogas so often referred to in 
astrology. 

A yoga is a specific disposition of a planet or planets which is productive of 
specific results. There are hundreds, nay thousands, of yogas described in astrological 
texts. Their presence or absence in a horoscope, as also their strength and placement, 
determines the nature and stature of a native. 

It is not possible to discuss all the various yogas mentioned in the classical texts. 
Some principles underlying the formation of the yogas, depending upon the ownership 
ofthe houses by the planets, will be discussed here. It is proposed to discuss these yogas 
under four heads. 
I. Raja yogas 
II. Dhana yogas 
Ill. Arishta yo gas 
IV. Parivartana yo gas 



I. Raia Y ogas 

These yogas are so called because they elevate the status of an individual. When 
they are formed by planets which are strong and located in benefic houses, they manifest 
fully. When formed by weak planets or those located in adverse houses, they do not 
manifest fully and lead to numerous obstacles and struggles. 
Formation of Raja Y ogas 

It has already been pointed out that planets get related to each other by: (i) 
conjunction; (ii) mutual aspect; (iii) exchange of houses; and (iv) by one planet being 
placed in the other's house and aspected by that planet. Raja yogas form when the lords 
of the kendras are related to the lords of the trikonas in any of the above manner. 

1t has been said that the kendras (houses 1, 4, 7 and I 0) belong to lord Vishnu, the 
Preserver, while the trikonas (houses I, 5 and 9) belong to His consort Laxrni, the 
goddess of Prosperity. The union of the two (kendra and trikona) lords forms a Raja 
yoga. The lagna is to be treated as both a kendra and a trikona. Raja yogas will thus result 
from a mutual relationship between: 

(a) The lagna lord on the one side and the lord of the 4th or the 5th or the 7th or 
the 9th or the lOth house on the other (5 combinations). 
(b) The lord of the fourth house on the one side and the lord of the 5th or the 9th 
on the other (two combinations). 
(c) The lord of the fifth house on the one side and lords of the 7th or the lOth on 
the other (two combinations). 
(d) The lord ofthe seventh house on the one side and that of the ninth on the other 
(one combination). 
(e) The lord of the ninth house on the one side and the lord of the tenth on the 
other (one combination). 
Thus eleven different types of Raja yogas are formed by relationship between 

appropriate house lords. It may be pointed out that yo gas formed between the 9th and the 
1Oth lords, and those between the lagna lord on one side and the lords of the 9th or the 
lOth or the 4th or the 5th on the other, are particularly productive offavourable results. 
Some other Raja Y ogas 

Parashara mentions several other Raja yo gas some of which are as follows: 
l. A conjunction or mutual aspect between the lord of the fifth and the lord of the ninth 
leads to kingship or royal status. 
Note: The ninth lord is a minister; the fifth is a chief minister. By kingship is meant a high 
governmental status in the modern context. 
2. Exchange between lords of the fourth and the tenth houses, aspected by or associated 
with the fifth or the ninth lords, is another combination for high official status. 
Note: The tenth house indicates the government, the fourth house also stands for the 
Parliament in a democracy. 



3. Lords of the fourth and the tenth associating with the lords of the fifth or the ninth 
produce a Raja yoga. 
4. Lord of the fifth house associated with the lagna lord or the ninth lord, and located in 
houses one, four or ten, brings forth a king. 
5. Jupiter-Venus conjunction occurring in the ninth house or associated with the fifth lord 
produces a king. 
6. Venus in the lagna aspected by the Moon and Jupiter causes a Raja yoga. 
7. Debilitated lords of the third, the sixth, the eighth or the twelfth, in the presence of a 
strong lord of the lagna which aspects or associates with the lagna, produce a Raja yoga 
during their dasha. 
8. Tenth lord exalted or in its own house, aspecting the lagna at the same time, produces a 
Raja yoga. 
Examples 

Chart XXI-1 belongs to a late Prime Minister oflndia. The lords of the 9th and the 
I Oih houses are combined in the tenth house producing a powerful Raja yoga. A close 
association of the eighth and the ninth lords in the tenth house leads to the Raja yoga 
materialising suddenly and unexpectedly because of the death of his predecessor. The 
same combination resulted in a sudden and unexpected fall. The Sun in the tenth house 
gains directional strength and ensures high status in government. 



Jup(R} 

Ketti Chart XXI-I 
Birth Chart 

Saturn Oct. 9. 1904 Mars 
Rahu 

~ Sun 
Lagna Venus Moon 

1'.-lcrcun 
Lagna 11"00' Mars 12"22' Venus 18"05' 
Sun 23.03' Mercury 8"06' S;l!Ufll 21"54' 
Moon 23"10' Jupiter (IR) 3"53' R:1hu 24"30' 

Mercury Jupiter 
Venus Ketu 

q__:~gn:~ 
Sunl\·!01 
Sat Mar 

Navamsha 

R:1hu 

~ Rahu 
Lagna Venus Jupiter 

Saturn 

Mercury 

D:1shamamsha 

Sun 
M<X>ll Kctu 
Mars 



In the Navamsha too, a Raja yoga is formed in the lagna by the association of the 
lagna lord and the tenth lord. This combination too is joined by the lord of the eighth 
house, confirming the indications of the Rashi chart. 

In the Dashamamsha, a powerful Raja yoga again forms in the tenth house by the 
conjunction ofthe fifth and the ninth lords, along with the Sun. 
VipareetaRaja Yoga 
An odd Raja yoga results when: 

(a) The sixth lord is in the eighth or the twelfth house (Harsha yoga); 
(b) The eighth lord is in the sixth or the twelfth house (Sarala yoga); or 
(c) The twelfth lord is in the sixth or the eighth house (Vimala yoga). 

This leads to rise in status, fame and financial gain during the concerned dasha. 
In Chart :XXI-2, a powerful Raja yoga results from a mutual aspect between the 

ninth lord Mercury and the tenth lord, the Moon. The Moon as the lOth lord also 
receives the aspects of the fourth and fifth lord, Saturn, as also the natural benefic Jupiter. 
This powerful combination involves the 5/11 axis which is an axis for earnings and 
wealth, a Dhana yoga which will be described soon. 

lbhu Mars Jupiter 

Moon Chart XXI-2 Sun 

Birth Chart 
Aug. 12, 1930 .Mc:rCUI) 

~ 

Sat(R) Lagua 
Venus 

Ketu 

L:1gn:1 14.1 6' Mars 26"40' Venus 9·3s• 
Sun 25"56' Mercury 19. 44' Saturn (R) 13"0 I I 
Moon 26*39' Jupiter 11·1 5' Rahu 4.14' 



Jupiter Moon 
Venus Rahu 

?I 
Lagna Saturn 

Sun 
l\:;n~uu~lm 

Mars 
Ketu 1\· JcrCIII"} 

The native, a senior bureaucrat in the Government of India, enjoyed status and 
enhanced income particularly in the dasha periods of Ketu as well as Venus. This is a 
combination of a Raja yoga and a Dhana yoga occurring simultaneously. Ketu is aspected 
by Jupiter in both the Rashi chart and the Navamsha chart. Venus is the debilitated lord of 
the eighth house which is capable of causing a Raja yoga, as has been mentioned above; 
it is exalted in the Navamsha. These indications can be confirmed in the Dashamamsha 
too where Ketu in the LOth house is assocoiated with Jupiter, and Venus happens to be a 
yogakaraka located in the seventh house. 

Saturn Rahu 

f'•  
Lagna 

Mcrcun.·  Dashamamsha 

Venus 

Sun 
Jupiter Moon Mars 

Ketu 



ll.Dhana Yogas 

The Dhana yo gas are astrological combinations for wealth and prosperity. These 
combinations prove fruitful in the presence of a strong lagna and a strong lagna lord. 
Any benefic combinations, whether Raja yogas or Dhana yogas, manifest fully only 
when the lagna is strong. 

The second and the eleventh houses are the ones which are concerned with the 
earning and accumulation of wealth. Besides these, the trines are considered as the abodes 
of Laxmi, the goddess of Wealth. Thus, any relationship among these various lords 
ensures wealth and prosperity. The Dhana yogas, in their simplest form, may thus occur 
when there is a mutual relationship between: 

(a) The lagna lord on one side and the second, or the fifth, or the ninth, or the 
eleventh lord on the other (four combinations). 
(b) The second lord on one side and the fifth, or the ninth, or the eleventh lord on 
the other (three combinations). 
(c) The fifth lord on one side and the ninth, or the eleventh lord on the other (two 
combinations). 
(d) The ninth lord on the one side and the eleventh lord on the other (one 
combination). 
This leads to ten different combinations. There are numerous other combinations 

mentioned in several texts. All such combinations must be examined in the light of 
strength of the constituent planets, their lordship, their placement in specific houses and 
the influence of benefic and malefic planets on them. 
Some other Dhana Y ogas 
Parashara makes a mention of several other Dhana yo gas. Some of these are enumerated 
here. 
A. Significance of the 5/11 axis 

!.Venus occupying the fifth house identical with its own rashi (Vrisha!Tula), and 
Mars placed in the lagna. 
2.Mercury occupying the fifth house identical with its own rashi (Mithuna/Kanya), 
with the Moon, Mars and Jupiter in the eleventh house. 
3.The Sun occupying the fifth house identical with its own rashi (Simha), and the 
Moon, Jupiter and Saturn in the eleventh house. 
4.Saturn occupying the fifth house identical with its own rashi (Makara/Kumbha), 
and the Sun and the Moon in the eleventh house. 
5.Jupiter occupying the fifth house identical with its own rashi (Dhanu/Meena), and 
Mercury in the eleventh house. 
6.Mars occupying the fifth house identical with its own rashi (MeshaNrischika), 
and Venus in the eleventh house. 
7. The Moon in Karka in the fifth house, and Saturn in the eleventh house. 



B. Significance of the lagna and its lord 
l.The Sun in Simha lagna, under the influence (aspect or association) of Mars and 
Jupiter. 
2. The Moon in Karka lagna, under the influence of Mercury and Jupiter. 
3.Mars in its own rashi (Mesha/Vrischika) in the lagna, under the influence of 
Mercury, Venus and Saturn. 
4.Mercury in its own rashi (Mithuna/Kanya) in the lagna, under the influence of 
Jupiter and Saturn. 
5. Jupiter in its own rashi (Dhanu/Meena) in the Iagna, under the influence of Mars 
and Mercury. 
6. Venus in its own rashi (Vrisha!fula) in the Iagna, under the influence of Mercury 
and Saturn. 
?.Saturn in its own rashi (Makara/Kumbha) in the Iagna, under the influence of 
Mars and Jupiter. 

C. Houses five and nine 
Houses five and nine are particularly wealth-giving houses. Planets associated with 
these houses or their lords ensure acquisition of wealth. 

Examples 
ln chart XXI-3, six of the nine planets occupy the 5111 axis, the axis of wealth. The 

fifth house contains several Raja yo gas and Dhana yogas. They are: 
1. Lagna lord with the fourth lord. 
2. Lagna lord with the fifth lord. 
3. Lagna lord with the ninth lord. 
4. Lagna lord with the tenth lord. 
5. Fourth lord with the fifth lord. 
6. Fourth lord with the ninth lord. 
7. Fifth lord with the ninth lord. 
8. Fifth lord with the tenth lord. 
9. Lagna lord with the second lord. 

I 0. Second lord with the ninth lord. 
II. Mars and the Moon joining together in a house is an additional combination for 
wealth. 



Sun 
:-.Jcrc\lry Ketu 

Chart XXI-4 
Birth Chart 

Moon 
Mars Mar. 16, 1958 
Venus 

lfLlgna 
Saturn Jup(R) 

Rahu 
Lagna 25*46' Mars ()19' Venus 18 "36' 
Sun 2.20' ~ lcr,ury 14.26' Saturn 2"0'.1' 
Moon 21" 49' Jupiter (R) 7'07 Rahu S"25' 

~ 
Saturn Lagna Venus 

Ketu 

Sun 
Mars Moon 

Navamsha 

Jupiter 
Rahu .i\Jl'fCUf) 

No wonder the native is very prosperous and enjoys a high status in the U.S.A. In 
the Navamsha also, the second and the ninth lord Venus, located in the eleventh house, is 
aspected by the fifth lord Saturn occupying its own house. 

Chart :XXI-4 shows a conjunction of the lagna lord, the second lord and the tenth 
lord in the fourth house. This chart also shows a special Dhana yoga of Parashara which 
is obtained when a single planet owning the second and the seventh houses 
simultaneously, occupies the fourth house. This can only happen in the case of Mesha 
and Tula lagnas. For Mesha Iagna, Venus as the lord of the second and the seventh 
houses, causes a Dhana yoga when located in the fourth house. For Tula lagna, as in this 
case, Mars as the lord of the second and the seventh houses, occupies the fourth house. 



An additional factor for riches is the association of the Moon and Mars which goes under 
the name ofChandra-Mangala yoga. It is present in Chart XXl-3 also. 

Ketu Mars Moon 

Sun 
Mercury 

Venus Chart XXI-5 
If Birth Chart 

Lagna March 12, 1957 

Saturn Rahu Jup(R) 

Lagna 10'38' Mars 3"01' Venus 19.20' 
Sun 27.51' l\lcrcury 19.50' Saturn 20"55' 
Moon 29*56' Jupiter 4.22' R:1hu 28.26' 

I~ Sun 
Mercury Lagna ~loon 

Venus Rahu 

Jupiter 

Navamsha 
Mars 

Saturn 

Ketu 

Chart XXI-5 shows a very close conjunction of the ninth and the tenth lords, a 
potent Raja yoga, obtaining in the second house of prosperity, while the lagna lord and 
the second lord Saturn occupies the eleventh house. The lagna lord and the eleventh lord 
mutually aspect each other along the 5/11 axis. Powerful Raja yo gas and Dhana yo gas are 
thus formed. The combination in the second house is also associated with the Sun which 
is the eighth lord indicating obstacles as well as interruptions. The native changed many 



jobs, each successive break virtually causing further rise in his status and eminence, as 
also proving financially more benefic (the effect of the second house!). 

Ketu 

Chart XXI-6 
Birth Chart 

Dec. 30, 1959 

Sun Mars f' 
Saturn Mer Lagna Rahu 
Moon Jup \'en 

Lagna 18.54' Mars 25.29' Venus 2*35' 
Sun 14*08' Mercury 28.33' Saturn 15"55' 
Moon 15.36' Jupiter 24.59' Rahu 5*05' 

~ 
Lagna 

Mcrcurj' 
Mars 

i\ lercun· Venus 
Rahu' 

Navamsha 
Sun Sat 
Moon 
Ketu 

The Indo Lagna 
A method of working out the extent of prosperity of a person is to determine the 

lndu lagna in his chart and see the disposition of planets from it. 
Method of casting the Indu Lagna 



The seven planets, from the Sun to the Saturn, contribute 30, 16, 6, 8, 10, 12 and I Kalas 
or units respectively. 

(a) Note the ninth lord from the lagna and the ninth lord from the Moon. 
(b) Add the units contributed by the two lords. 
(c) Divide by I2 to remove multiples of I2. 
(d) See which house is indicated by the remainder, when counted from the position 
ofthe Moon. 
(e) That house becomes the lndu Lagna. 
An unblemished benefic or an exalted malefic in the lndu Lagna makes one a 

multi-millionaire according to the classical texts. Ordinary malefic influence on this lagna 
leads to ordinary financial status. 

In Chart XXI-3, the ninth lord from the lagna is Saturn, and the ninth lord from the 
Moon is the Moon itself. The units contributed by the two (i.e., I and I6) when added 
yield I7. This divided by I2 yields a remainder of 5. The fifth house from the Moon in 
the natal chart falls in Meena, in the eleventh house. Six of the nine planets influence this 
lagna by aspect or occupation. When several planets associate with the Indu Lagna, or 
aspect it, or fall in the second or the eleventh from it, or occupy kendras from it, riches 
are ensured. 

In Chart XXI -6, the lagna lord is joined with the second lord Mars and the ninth 
lord Mercury, as well as Jupiter, the significator for wealth, in the second house. The 
native is a wealthy lady. Venus as the eighth lord in this combination has ensured 
inheritence while Jupiter as the sixth lord has led to legal disputes. 

The ninth lord from lagna is Mercury; from the Moon the ninth lord is the Sun. 
The Sun and Mercury, contributing 30 and 8 units yield 38 which, when divided by I2, 
gives a remainder of 2. From the Moon the second house is Makara. This becomes the 
Indu lagna. Fom here, the eleventh house has four planets and powerful Dhana yogas. 
This chart suffers the blemish ofhaving all planets concentrated in only two houses (the 
second and the third) of the horoscope forming the 'Yuga' variety of Sankhya yogas, 
under the main head of Nabhasa yogas. It will be seen that the presence of the 'Yuga' 
yoga has not caused poverty, as a literal application of this yoga might suggest. 



III. Arishta Yo2as 

These yogas lead to ill health. The results of Raja yogas and Dhana yogas get 
adversely modified in the presence of potent Arishta yo gas. Detailed description of these 
yogas leads one into medical astrology which is a complete subject in itself. Here it is 
only pertinent to touch on the basic principles as relevant to the lordship of planets over 
various houses. 

The highly malefic houses are the Trik houses, viz., the sixth, the eighth and the 
twelfth. Their lords produce adverse results. Further association of these lords with 
maraka planets enhances their virulence. In their simplest form, the Arishta yogas may be 
formed when there is a relationship between: 
(a) The lagna lord on the one side and the sixth or the eighth or the twelfth lord on the 
other (three combinations). 
(b) The sixth lord on the one side and the eighth or the twelfth lord on the other (two 
combinations). 
(c) The eighth lord on the one side and the twelfth lord on the other (one combination). 
The above six combinations become worse when associated or aspected by the maraka 
planets. 
The Daridrya Y ogas 

The Daridrya yogas of Parashara cause penury and sufferring. It will be seen that 
when the lagna lord is weak and afflicted, along with combinations for 'daridrya', there 
occurs ill health. Some of the Daridrya yo gas of Parashara are defined below: 
I. Lagna lord in the twelfth house and the twelfth lord in the lagna, and influence of 
marakas (lords of houses 2 or 7) on either or both of them. 
2. Lagna lord in the sixth and the sixth lord in the lagna, under maraka influence. 
3. Lagna or the Moon joined with Ketu, and the lagna lord in the eighth house, under 
maraka influence. 
4. Afflicted lagna lord in a Trik house, and the lord of the second house debilitated or in 
the sixth house. Under such a yoga, a person born to a royal family also attains to 
poverty. 
5. Fifth lord in the sixth house, and the ninth lord under maraka influence located in the 
twelfth house. 
6. Malefics in benefic houses and benefics located in adverse houses. 
7. The dasha ofplanets associated with the Trik lords leads to excessive loss of wealth if 
unaspected by the lords of the fifth or the ninth. 
8. Location of Mars and Saturn in the second house. 
Note: If Mercury aspects this combination, the native is very wealthy. 
9. Saturn in the second house aspected by the Sun. 



10. The Sun in the second house aspected by Saturn. 
Note: If Saturn does not aspect the Sun in the second house, the native is wealthy. 
Example 
Several Arishta yo gas manifest in chart XXI-7. 
I. Three planets are debilitated in the Rashi chart and two in the N avamsha chart. 
2. Lagna lord associates with a retrograde sixtb lord and the Sun, and is aspected by 
Saturn. 
3. The Moon is involved in the Rahu-Ketu axis and gets debilitated in the Navamsha. 
4. A retrograde, functionally malefic, Mercury aspects the lagna. Retrograde planets lose 
their beneficence as far as health is concerned. 
The native suffers from a chronic incurable disease of the muscular system. He is, 
however, not poor monetarily. Some of the combinations promising financial stability 
here are: 
I. A mutual aspect between the lagna lord and the eleventh lord. 
2. The lagna lord and the fifth lord together, aspecting thee lagna. 
3. A debilitated lord of the twelfth. It has been mentioned already that the debilitated 
lords of the third, the sixth, the eighth and the twelfth prove beneficial. 
4. A debilitated planet in the sixth house! 
5. Some Dhana yogas obtain in the N avamsha too. 



IV. Parivartana Yogas 

These yogas are characterised by exchange of house lords. When two planets 
exchange houses, they gain some strength and behave as if they are located each in his 
own house. By an exchange, they get linked to each other. Obviously, if the lord of a 
good house establishes an exchange with a benefic house, good results are produced. 
However, when adverse houses are involved, the results too are adverse. 

Mantreshwara gives three categories ofParivartana yogas. 

A. Maha Yogas (or great combinations): These result when: 

1. The lagna lord exchanges houses with (i) the second lord, (ii) the fourth lord, 
(iii) the fifth lord, (iv) the seventh lord, (v) the ninth lord, (vi) the tenth lord, or 
(vii) the eleventh lord. 

2. The second lord exchanges houses with (i)the fourth lord, (ii) the fifth lord, 
(iii) the seventh lord, (iv) the ninth lord, (v) the tenth lord, or (vi) the eleventh 
lord. 

3. The fourth lord exchanges houses with (i) the fifth lord, (ii) the seventh lord, 
(iii) the ninth lord, (iv) the tenth lord, or (v) the eleventh lord. 

4. The fifth lord exchanges houses with (i) the seventh lord, (ii) the ninth lord, 
(iii) the tenth lord, or (iv) the eleventh lord. 

5. The seventh lord exchanges houses with (i) the ninth lord, (ii) the tenth lord, 
or (iii) the eleventh lord. 

6. The ninth lord exchanges houses with (i) the tenth lord, or (ii) the eleventh 
lord. 

7. The tenth lord exchanges houses with the eleventh lord. 

Note: 

Mutual exchanges between the lords of the second house, the eleventh house, the 
kendras and the trikonas give rise to the above mentioned twenty-eight yogas 
which promise wealth, status and physical enjoyments. 

B. Dainya Yogas (or combinations for misery): These result when: 

I. The sixth lord exchanges houses with (i) the lagna lord, (ii) the second lord, 
(iii) the third lord, (iv) the fourth lord, (v) the fifth lord, (vi) the seventh lord, (vii) 
the eighth lord, (viii) the ninth lord, (ix) the tenth lord, (x) the eleventh lord, or 
(xi) the twelfth lord. 

2. The eighth lord exchanges houses with (i) the lagna lord, (ii) the second lord, 
(iii) the third lord, (iv) the fourth lord, (v) the fifth lord, (vi) the seventh lord, (vii) 
the ninth lord, (viii) the tenth lord, (ix) the eleventh lord, or (x) the twelfth lord. 

3. The twelfth lord exchanges houses with (i) the lagna lord, (ii) the second 
lord, (iii) the third lord, (iv) the fourth lord, (v) the fifth lord, (vi) the seventh lord, 
(vii) the eighth lord, (viii) the ninth lord, (ix) the tenth lord, or (x) the eleventh 
lord. 



Note: 
I . The above thirty yo gas result from exchanges of various house lords with the 
lords of the sixth, the eighth and the twelfth houses. These Trik lords spoil the 
houses whose lords they associate with. These combinations lead to a wicked 
nature, persistent trouble from opponents, and ill health. 
2. Exchanges between lords of the Trik houses are specially referred to as 
Vipreeta Raja Yogas. The results attributed to a Vipreeta Raja yoga are financial 
prosperity and rise in status. This is an additional area where results given by yogas 
do not permit a literal application. 

C. Khala Yo gas (or combinations for wickedness): 
These are obtained when the lord of the third house exchanges places with the 
house lords other than the lords of the Trik houses. That is, the third lord 
establishes an exchange with (i) the lagna lord, (ii) the second lord, (iii) the fourth 
lord, (iv) the fifth lord, (v) the seventh lord, (vi) the ninth lord, (vii) the tenth lord, 
or (viii) the eleventh lord. 
Note: 
I. These eight yogas are characterised by a fickle and a wicked nature, 
fluctuating fortunes and fluctuating temperament. 
2. A literal application of these yo gas is again not warranted. Some of the very 
interesting results are obtained when these combinations are applied judiciously. 



... XXII ... 

Specific and Miscellaneous Y ogas 

;r !J m.  ' G ' ..,.  
~ lct'..t ~ ;.f: tt44  a 

~ e:a:lfil ij- UPJ: 4~-::t :q II 
But you cannot see Me with this (human) eye of yours: !bestow 
on you the supernatural eye. Behold My divine yoga. 

Gita XI/8 

The Nabhasa yogas, and the yogas dependant upon the ownership ofhouses by the 
planets, have been described already. Besides these there are numerous other yogas 
mentioned in the classical texts, by authors from Parashara downwards, which deserve 
special mention. As usual, these yogas are also specific planetary dispositions which 
usually, though not invariably, involve two or more planets to effect their formation. 
They give their specific results which are subject to modifications depending upon such 
conditions as: 
(a) The nature of planets forming a particular yoga. 
(b) Ownership of houses by the planets constituting the yoga. 
(c) The house or houses occupied by the yoga-forming planets. 
(d) Strength of the constituents of a yoga. 
(e) Modifications as are appropriate to the ancient dicta, keeping in view the modern 
context. 

Since there is no limit to the number ofyogas mentioned in the classical texts, only 
some important ones will be mentioned here. For a similar reason, it is also not easy to 
classify them though a crude attempt is being made to group them into some categories. 
There is some overlap amongst the categories; for example, the Gajekesari yoga, 
involving the Moon, has been described under a category separate from that concerned 
with the yo gas associated with the Moon. 
We now proceed to discuss some of these miscellaneous yogas. 



I. Pancha-Mahaourusha Yogas 

They are not yogas in the strictest sense since they depend only on one planet. 
They are thus single-planet 'combinations'. Five different yo gas arise, based on the 
strength and location of the five planets, viz., Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn, 
in a horoscope. These five yo gas are: 
1. Ruchaka yoga: Formed when Mars, exalted or in its own house, is located in a kendra 
from the lagna. 
2. Bhadra yoga: When Mercury, exalted or in its own house, is located in a kendra. 
3. Hamsa yoga: When Jupiter, exalted or in its own house, is located in a kendra. 
4. Malavya yoga: When Venus, exalted or in its own house, is located in a kendra. 
5. Shasha yoga: When Saturn, exalted or in its own house, is located in a kendra. 
1. Ruchaka yoga 

The native born under this yoga is bold and courageous, good looking, having a 
prominent face, full of strength and vigour, dark haired, with beautiful eyebrows, eager 
for battle, cruel, annihilator of opponents, kingly, discriminating, with slim lower limbs, 
versed in the sacred hymns as well as magic spells, commander of an army or a leader of 
a gang of thieves. He is keen on all adventurous pursuits, suffers scars (or death) from 
fire and weapons, and lives happily to an age of seventy years. 
2. Bhadra yoga 

This yoga brings forth a native with the face of a tiger, the majestic gait of an 
elephant, large chest and shoulders, a commanding stature, skilled in the technique of 
'yoga', very learned, intelligent, of beautiful body parts, dark haired, sensuous, of a 
'Sattvika' nature, knower of the sacred scriptures, blessed with friends wife, children and 
physical comforts, enjoying high status, and lives to an age of eighty years. 
3. Hamsa yoga 

One born under this yoga is fair-complexioned, with the voice like that of a swan. 
He has beautiful limbs and face, a phlegmatic ('Kapha') disposition, fondness for water 
sports, a thirst for the knowledge of sacred scriptures, a virtuous nature, an intense sexual 
urge, and comforts of all sorts at his disposal. He is blessed with a beautiful wife, a lovely 
physical form, and lives to a ripe age of a hundred years. 
4. Malavya yoga 

One born under Malavya yoga has a graceful appearance, slim waist, handsome 
body, beautiful lips, long arms, deep voice and sparkling teeth. He is blessed with 
children, wife, wealth and physical comforts, indulges in extra-marital relationships, is 
well versed in sacred scriptures and attains an age of seventy years. 
5. Shasha yoga 

This yoga confers on the native a cruel nature, leadership over an army, a group or 
a village, acquisition of wealth, courage and valour. He is competent, learned and finds 
fault in others. He roams around in jungles, mountains, forts and other odd places. He 



takes to metallurgy, acquires the wealth and women of others and is devoted to his 
mother. Of medium height and slim waist, he lives upto an age of seventy years. 

Note: 
(a) The Pancha-Mahapurusha yogas indicate five different natives depending upon 
the predominent influence of each of the five planets, from Mars to Saturn. Mars 
signifies strength and aggression; Mercury signifies learning and intelligence; 
Jupiter signifies oratory and wisdom; Venus stands for grace and pleasures; Saturn 
indicates mass appeal. 
(b) The Pancha-Mahapurusha yogas yield results only when the Sun and the Moon 
are also strong. Else, they produce ordinarily good results during their relevant 
dashas. 
(c) The disposition of the yoga-causing planets must also be seen in the divisional 
charts to assess the extent to which the results indicated by yoga would fructify. 



II. The Chandra Y ogas 

Yogas arising primarily from the Moon, the Lunar yogas, are as follows: 
1. Sunapha Yoga 

When the second house from the Moon is occupied by a planet, other than the Sun, 
the Sunapha yoga arises. This yoga bestows upon the native status, huge wealth, capacity 
to earn his fortune, religious inclination, virtuous pursuits and a quiet nature. 

Note: The exact nature of this yoga will depend upon the nature of planet or 
planets causing this yoga. Several varieties of this yoga thus arise depending upon which 
planet occupies the second house from the Moon, and whether it is a single occupant or 
has other associates. 
2. Anapha Yoga 

This arises when there is a planet, other than the Sun, occupying the twelfth house 
from the Moon. This yoga makes a native healthy, amiable, famous and renowned, an 
orator, virtuous, capable, wealthy, given to varied comforts, and happy. 

Note: Whereas the stress in the Sunapha yoga is on accumulation and possession, in 
the Anapha yoga it is on spending and enjoyment. As in the case of Sunapha yoga, there 
are numerous varieties of the Anapha yoga also, depending upon the nature and the 
number of the occupants of the twelfth house from the Moon. 
3. Durudhara Yoga 

Presence of planets in both the second and the twelfth from the Moon causes this 
yoga. Here again, the Sun is not to be considered. One born in this yoga earns renown 
through good speech, learning, valour and virtue. This yoga confers upon the native 
wealth, vehicles, servants, physical comforts and freedom from enemies. 

Note: 
(a) In Durudhara yoga, the stress is both on possession and enjoyment. When a 
Durudhara is formed by benefics, it is very auspicious. When malefics form this 
yoga, it has a constricting influence on the Moon and yields adverse results. 
(b) The same principles can be extended to medical astrology also. When benefics 
surround the lagna or the lagna lord, they prove good for health. When malefics do 
so, they produce adverse results. 
(c) The strength ofthese yogas depends upon the strength ofthe Moon. 

4. Kemadruma Yoga 
When the second and the twelfth houses from the Moon are unoccupied, it leads to 

the adverse Kemadruma yoga. The presence of the Sun in these houses does not make 
any difference. 

When the Kemadruma yoga exists in any chart, the native is bereft of wife, 
progeny, learning and mental peace. He suffers misery, penury, physical illness and 
humiliation. A Kemadruma yoga destroys the benefic effects of Raja yogas. 
Cancellation of the Kemadruma 



A Kemadruma is said to attain cancellation under the following circumstances: 
(a) Presence ofplanets in kendras from the lagna. 
(b) Presence of planets in kendras from the Moon. 
(c) All planets aspecting the Moon. 
(d) Strong Moon in a kendra aspected by or associated with benefics (Mercury, 
Jupiter or Venus). 
Note: The Moon needs a support on either side; else it proves adverse. 

5. Adhi Yoga 
This yoga is produced by the occupation of the sixth, seventh and eighth houses 

from the Moon by benefics (Mercury, Jupiter and Venus). This gives rise to high status, 
the command of an army, kingship and governmental recognition. This yoga further 
ensures good health, long life and prosperity. 

Note: This yoga demands that the three benefics must occupy the three houses (6, 7 
and 8) from the Moon jointly or singly (in whatever combination!). The presence of 
malefics in these houses spoils this yoga. 
6. Dhana yoga from the Moon 

All the three benefics occupying Upachaya houses (i.e., houses 3, 6, 10 or II) 
from the Moon produce a very wealthy individual; two of the benefics placed in such 
houses give medium wealth, and only one benefic planet in any of these houses from the 
Moon ensures only ordinary wealth. 

Note: 
(a) Upachaya houses are houses of expansion. 
(b) Depending upon the location of the Moon being in a kendra or a panaphara or 
an apoklima house as reckoned from the Sun, the wealth and learning of the 
individual is ordinary, medium or plenteous. 
(c) The results indicated by the Chandra yogas take precedence over the results 
indicated by other yo gas. 



Ill. The Ravi Y ogas 

Yogas arising from the Sun, the Solar yogas, are as follows: 
1. Veshi Yoga 

Caused by the occupation of the second house from the Sun by a planet other than 
the Moon. Such a native is truthful, lazy, having a long stature and a balanced outlook, 
and has only ordinary wealth. When benefics cause this yoga, the native is eloquent and 
wealthy. When malefics cause it, the native is destitute and associates with wicked people. 
2. Voshi Yoga 

Caused by the occupation of the twelfth house from the Sun by a planet other than 
the Moon. This yoga bestows upon the native good learning, eloquence, charitable 
nature, sharp memory and generally virtuous disposition. When benefics cause this yoga, 
the native is intelligent, learned, strong, wealthy and engaged in scientific pursuits. 
Malefics causing this yoga lead to cruel nature, ugly looks, lack of intelligence and 
excessive lust. 
3. Ubhayachari Yoga 

Caused by planets other than the Moon occupying the second and the twelfth 
houses from the Sun. This produces a native with strong physique, capability to shoulder 
great responsibility, learning, good looks, wealth, and numerous objects of pleasure. 
When malefics cause this yoga, the native is destitute, servile and ailing. 

Note: No adverse yoga results if the Sun is not associated with a planet on either 
side of it. 



IV. Diverse Y ogas 

Some of the very important yogas are included in this section. They are being 
briefly described below in a random order. 
1. Gaja-Kesari Yoga 
This yoga is produced when Jupiter occupies a kendra from the Moon. One born in this 
yoga is wealthy, famous, learned, virtuous and honoured by the king. 
Note: 
(a)This is an important yoga. It occurs frequently in horoscopes and, therefore, must be 
studied judiciously. 
(b)The yoga fructifies only if Jupiter is not combust, and is associated with or aspected by 
benefics. The Moon too should not be combust or debilitated, and must be under benefic 
influence. 
(c)The exact nature of the yoga, and the extent to which it yields results, will depend 
upon such factors as: 

(i) Exaltation or debilitation, i.e., strength or weakness, of both Jupiter and the 
Moon; 
(ii) Placement of Jupiter in the first, fourth, seventh or tenth house from the Moon; 
(iii) The houses occupied by Jupiter and the Moon, when reckoned from the lagna; 
(iv) The signs or rashis in which the two planets are located; 
(v) Concurrent planetary influences on either or both of them; 
(vi) The dasha pattern. 

(d)A strong Gaja-Kesari yoga leads to lasting fame. 
Chart XXII-l shows an exalted Jupiter in the tenth house from the Moon, 

producing a powerful Gaja-Kesari yoga. There are several planets in the twelfth house 
from the Moon producing an Anapha yoga. Accumulation of planets in the eighth house 
has its own special meaning as this house gains prominence in the horoscope. Of course, 
it is important to go into consideration of the vargas for finer analysis. The chart belongs 
to a prominent cinema artiste who dominated the screen world for several years in the 
recent past. 

It will be appreciated that the best Gaja-kesari can occur only if the Moon and 
Jupiter occupy Karka, which is the own house for the Moon and the exaltation sign for 
Jupiter. It cannot form with both planets exalted or both in their own houses. 



Sat(R) 

~ 
Lagna 

Chart XXII-I Jupiter 
Ketu 

Birth Chart 
Oct 13, I942 Rahu 

SunVcn 
Moon Mars 

Mercury 

2. Amalaa (or Amala-Kirti) Yoga 
This yoga is said to exist when a natural benefic occupies the tenth house from the 

lagna or the Moon. Such a person is revered by the ruler, enjoys physical pleasures, is 
charitably disposed, likeable and helpful. 

Note: The tenth house is an extremely important house of the horoscope. When 
benefics influence this house, one pursues legitimate and honourable means of earning, 
and enjoys fame as a consequence. A strong Amalaa yoga ensures lasting fame for the 
native. 
3. Kartari Yogas 
These are of two types: 
(a)Shubha-Kartari, when natural benefics occupy houses 2 and 12 from the lagna. This 
yoga ensures health, wealth and fame for the native. 
(b)Papa-Kartari, when natural malefics occupy houses 2 and 12 from the lagna. This 
yoga leads to criminal tendencies, ill health and impure food. 

Note: This yoga is equivalent to the Durudhara yoga which forms around the 
Moon. The reader is referred to Chart XXI V-1 where the lagna is surrounded by the Sun 
in the twelfth house, and Mars and Rahu in the second house. When malefics surround 
the lagna or the lagna lord, health suffers. 
4. Parvata Yoga 
1t has two variants: 
(a)The sixth and the eighth houses being vacant, or occupied only by benefics, and 
benefics occupying the kendras; or 
(b )The lord of the lagna and that of the twelfth house placed in mutual kendras, and 
aspected by benefics. 



A native with this yoga in his horoscope is famous, wealthy, charitable, fortunate, 
orator, a leader, learned and lustful. 
5. Chaamara Yoga 
This also has two variants: 
(a)Exalted lagna lord placed in a kendra and aspected by Jupiter; or 
(b)Two benefics conjoined in the lagna, the seventh house, the ninth house or the tenth 
house. 
Such a native is a king or honoured by a king, an orator, skillful, wise, and versed in 
sacred scriptures. 
6. Shankha Yoga 
This again has two variants: 
(a)The fifth lord and the sixth lord are in mutual kendras, and the lagna is strong; or 
(b)Lords ofthe lagna and the tenth house occupy Chara rashis (movable signs), and the 
ninth lord is strong. 
A native with either of the above combinations in his chart is kind, virtuous, learned, 
long-lived, morally sound, blessed with wife and children, owns lands and enjoys 
prosperity. 

Note: This yoga confers on the native the authority to discipline or punish. 
7. Lakshmi Yoga 

This yoga arises when the lagna lord is strong, and the ninth lord is in a kendra 
identical with its own house, Moolatrikona or exaltation. 

One born in this yoga is good in looks, virtuous, very wealthy, widely renowned, 
honoured by the king, blessed with wives and children. 
8. Lagnadhi Yoga 

When benefics occupy houses seven and eight from the lagna, bereft of malefic 
association or aspect, this yoga is said to arise. This gives rise to a native who is learned 
and comfortable. 

Note: Lagnadhi yoga is an equivalent of the (Chandra) Adhi yoga already 
mentioned. Perhaps here, the sixth house from the lagna must also be considered for 
occupation by benefics as in case of the Chandradhi yoga. It confers on the native virtue, 
high status, learning and capability of compilation or writing. 
9. Maha-Bhagya Yoga 
The formation of this yoga involves the following: 
A.ln the horoscope of a male: 

(a) Birth during daytime; 
(b) Odd sign rising in the lagna; 



(c) The Sun in an odd sign; 
(d) The Moon also in an odd sign. 

B.In the horoscope of a female: 
(a) Birth during night time; 
(b) Even sign rising in the lagna; 
(c) The Sun in an even sign; 
(d) The Moon also in an even sign. 
One born in Maha-Bhagya yoga is pleasant to look at, liberal, renowned, of good 

character, owner of lands and equivalent to a king. Women having this yoga in their 
chart are blessed with all feminine qualities and virtues, good fortune, good character and 
lots of wealth. 

Note: Odd signs are masculine signs and even signs are feminine signs. lt is 
desirable to have the lagna, the Moon and the Sun in odd signs in the horoscopes of 
males, and in even signs in the horoscope of females. 

Chart XXII-2 belongs to the late Indian Prime Minister, Mr. Morarji Desai. The 
lagna, the Sun and the Moon are all situated in odd or masculine signs. Even the 
Navamsha lagna (Dhanu in this case) happens to be odd. The birth occurred during 
daytime. There is a Vipreeta Raja yoga occurring in the eighth house. 



I~ 
Lagn~ 

Rahu 
Sun Chart X.\11-2 Jup(R) 

Mars Birth Chart 
Mercuq' Feb 29, 1896 Moon 
Venus Ketu 

Sat(R) 

Jup(R) Ketu 

r: 
Chart XXII-3 l.agna 

Saturn 
Birth Chart 

Moon Nov 19, 1917 Mars 

Venus Sun 
Rahu Mercury 

Mrs. Indira Gandhi, another late Prime Minister of India, has her birth occurring at 
night time, and the lagna, the Moon and the Sun all falling in even signs (Chart :XXII-3). 
Even the Navamsha lagna (Meena) falls in an even sign. 
The chart is characterised by three sets of exchanges: 

(a) Between the lagna lord and the seventh lord; 
(b) Between the second lord and the fifth lord; and 
(c) Between the sixth lord and the eleventh lord. 

A Maha-Bhagya yoga is a highly fortunate combination. 
10. Vipareeta Raja Yoga 



This yoga has been discussed in the preceding chapter. It arises from the lords of 
the sixth or the eighth or the twelfth houses occupying one of these houses (other than 
their own). 
11. Chandra Mangala Yoga 

This too finds mention in the previous chapter. It is a combination for financial 
prosperity. 
12. Shakata Yoga 

This results when Jupiter, located in a house other than a kendra, occupies the sixth, 
the eighth or the twelfth from the Moon. This yoga produces a native who is destitute, 
ever toiling, disliked by all, with ever fluctuating fortunes. 

Note: 
(a) Jupiter and the Moon in mutually adverse (six/eight or two/twelve) relationship 
are not supposed to augur well for the native. It must, however, be realised that 
Jupiter's location in the 6th, the 7th or the 8th house from the Moon is also a 
constituent of the Chandradhi yoga. This placement, thus, cannot be considered 
adverse in all circumstances. 
(b) Another important aspect to be considered is whether the Moon and Jupiter are 
strong or weak. In Chart XXII -4, Jupiter is located in the sixth house from the 
Moon, thus producing a typical Shakata yoga. However, both the planets occupy 
their own houses, and Jupiter additionally happens to be in its Moolatrikona sign. 
The lagna is strong because of the placement of the lagna lord in the lagna itself. 
This chart belongs to Mr Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of India. 

Rahu 

If" 
Lagna 

Chart X.XII-4 Moon 
Hirth Chart 

Nov 14, 1889 Saturn 

Jupiter Sun Mercun' Mars 
Ketu Venus' 

13. Chatussaagara yoga 
This combination arises when: 

(a) All planets occupy the four kendras; or 



(b) All planets occupy the Chara rashis (i.e., signs I, 4, 7 and 10). 
This yoga destroys numerous Arishta yogas and ensures wealth and high status to the 
native. 

Note: According to one view, this yoga is said to exist when all four kendras are 
occupied. See the horoscope of Lord Rama, Chart XXll-5, in this connection. Four 
planets are exalted and one is located in its own house. A strong Gaja-Kesari yoga is 
obtained in the lagna while three Pancha-Mahapurusha yogas, involving the lagna., the 
fourth house and the seventh house are also there. All four kendras are occupied by 
planets. The kendras are the pillars of a horoscope and their occupation bestows immense 
strength upon them. A malefic in the fourth house deprived lord Rama of comforts at 
home; another malefic in the seventh house led to separation from wife. 

Sun 
Rahu Mercury 
Venus 

·~iagna 
Jupiter 

Chart XXII-5 Moon 
Birth Chart 

Mars 

Saturn Ketu 

14. Daridra Yoga 
A special Daridra yoga has been described to obtain when the seven planets from 

the Sun to Saturn are placed in contiguous houses in such a manner that a planet next in 
natural order is placed in the preceding house. ln other words, Venus is placed in the 
second house from Saturn, Jupiter in the second from Venus, Mercury in the second 
from Jupiter, Mars in the second from Mercury, the Moon in the second from Mars, and 
the Sun in the second from the Moon. This yoga is said to cause extreme penury and 
destitution. 

Note: It will be appreciated that such a yoga cannot exist in the Rashi chart. It is 
perhaps intended to be examined in the Navamsha chart. Classical writers have given us 
certain peculiar combinations without giving any hints about their application. A great 
field exists for a serious researcher of astrology. 
15. Hatha-Hantaa Yoga 

This yoga arises when the Moon is located in the eleventh house and the Sun in the 
Moon's sign (Karka). The native with this yoga in the horoscope suffers humiliation (or 
death!) as a consequence of some stupid action of his. 



16. Neecha-Bhanga Raja Yoga 
This yoga indicates cancellation of debilitation of a planet. Cancellation of 

debilitation is supposed to produce benefic results or give rise to a Raja yoga. 
A planet achieves Neecha-Bhanga when: 

(a) The lord of the house where a planet is debilitated (i.e., the debilitation lord of 
the planet) is in a kendra from the lagna or the Moon. 
(b) The exaltation lord of the debilitated planet is in a kendra from the lagna or the 
Moon. 
(c) The debilitated planet is associated with or aspected by its debilitation lord. 
(d) The debilitated planet is associated with or aspected by its exaltation lord. 
(e) The debilitated planet exchanges houses with its debilitation lord. 
(f) Two debilitated planets aspect each other. 
Note: Neecha planets, because of their inherent weakness, generally give adverse 

results during their dashas. When a Neecha-Bhanga yoga is present, the debilitation yields 
place to a benefic situation. 

Chart XX-3 (see Nabhasa yogas) shows two planets, Mars and Jupiter, debilitated in 
the lagna and the seventh house. A typical Neecha-Bhanga obtains here as Mars recieves 
the aspect of its Uchcha-naatha (lord of exaltation sign) and Jupiter associates with its 
Uchcha-naatha, the Moon, as well as its Neecha-naatha (lord of debilitation sign) Saturn. 



V. Pravraiva Yogas 

These yo gas, also known as Sanyasa yo gas, lead to a renunciation or giving up of 
worldly attachments. There are several combinations which lead to detachment from 
woldly things. Some ofthese are being mentioned here. 

I. When the lord of the tenth house associates with four planets in a kendra or in 
a trikona, the native achieves emancipation after death. 
Note: It is desirable that such a combination does not occur in adverse houses, and 

no planet participating in this yoga formation should be combust. Else it leads to a fall 
from the state of final emancipation, the Yoga-Bhrashta of the Gita. 

Chart XXII-6 belongs to Acharya Rajneesh. Five planets, including the lord of the 
tenth house, are posited together. But the combination occurs in the eighth house of 
interruptions, obstacles, intrigues and uncertainties. If the Gita is to be believed, such a 
native must return with considerable yogic merit in his karmic balance. 

If 
Rahu Lagna 

Chart XXll-6 Jup{R) 

Birth Chart 
De~. 11, 1931 

MonSat 
MarVen Stm Ketu 

Mer 

2. The Moon in the Drekkana of Saturn aspected by Mars and Saturn, or in the 
Navamsha ofMars aspected by Saturn. 
3. Lord of the Moon sign aspected by Saturn alone and by no other planet. 
4. Lord of the Moon sign aspected by the remaining planets situated together in 
one house. 
5. Jupiter occupying the ninth house, and the lagna, the Moon and Jupiter all 
aspected by Saturn: Such a native attains recognition because of founding a system 
of philosophy. 



... XXIII ... 

Mathematical Calculation 
of Longevity 

~~I{({~~ Hi: ~~I{({~~ Ia·· -e.!UJ'41't ·~1{({~~1€1~. I 
... 

May I see for a hundred years, live for a hundred years, hear for 
a hundred years. May I speak for a hundred years, live in 

comfort and freedom for a hundred years. 
Yajurveda XXVI/24 

Sages opine that good and bad results on the basis of planetary combinations in a 
horoscope must only be pronounced after determining the length of life. It is fruitless to 
make any prediction if the native is not going to live long enough for the prediction to 
materialise. For general purposes of astrology, the life of a native may fall under one of 
the following categories: 
l.Balarishta or age up to 8 years. During this period, the survival of a child is subject to 
combinations of Balarishta and Arishta-Bhanga. 
2.Yogarishta, from 8 to 20 years. This is a difficult area and an exact length of survival 
during this period is a matter of very fine judgement on the part of an astrologer. 
3.Aipayu or short span, upto 32 years of life. 
4.Madhyayu or medium life span, from 32 to 70 years (or 66 years according to some). 
S.Poornayu or full length of life, from 70 to 100 years. 



Determination of span of Life 

Detennination of longevity is a difficult area of astrology. The availability of 
numerous methods of longevity detennination only indicates that no one method is 
totally reliable. A general method of deciding on short, medium or full life span involves 
the consideration of three groups of factors: 
Group I.: (a) Lagna lord, and (b) the eighth lord. 
Group JJ .: (a) Lagna, and (b) the Moon. 
Group III.: (a) Lagna, and (b) the Hora lagna. 

In each of the three groups above, there are two components. See which rashis 
these two components (a) and (b) fall into. The placement of each of the two factors (a) 
and (b) provides the life span indicated by the concerned group thus: 
!.If both (a) and (b) fall in Chara rashis: Poornayu 
2. Both in Sthira rashis: Alpayu 
3. Both in Dwiswabhava rashis: Madhyayu 
4. One in Chara and the other in Sthira: Madhyayu 
5. One in Chara and the other in Dwiswabhava: Alpayu 
6. One in Sthira and the other in Dwiswabhava: Poornayu 

If all three groups or any two of these indicate the same life span, that must be 
considered as final. Jn case the three groups indicate three different life spans, consider 
the one indicated by Group JJl (i.e., lagna and the Hora lagna). 

In case the three groups indicate three different life spans, but there is the Moon 
located in the lagna or the seventh house, consider the life span indicated by Group II 
(i.e., lagna and the Moon). 
Determination of the Hora lagna 

The Hora lagna for the purposes of longevity demands some elucidation. It may be 
detennined as below. 
Step I Find out the number of hours and minutes that have elapsed from the time of 
sunrise to the time of birth. 
Step II Consider the hours as rashis (divide by 12 if their number exceeds 12, and 
accept the remainder). Divide the minutes by 2 and consider them as degrees. These 
rashis and degrees may be called as the Ishta-Kaala. 
Step Jll Obtain the Hora lagna thus: 

(a) If the lagna is even, add the Ishta-Kaala to the cusp of the lagna. 
(b) Jfthe lagna is odd, add the Ishta-Kaala to the longitude of the Sun. 

Example 



Native born at 4:30am (1ST) on March 12, 1957 at Lat. 32°N43', Long. 074°E52'. 
Lagna: Makara I 0°38'; Sun: Kumbha 27°51 ';Moon: Mithuna 29°56'; Mars: Vrisha 3°01 '; 
Mercury: Kumbha 19°50'; Jupiter (R): Kanya 4°22'; Venus: Kumbha 19°20'; Saturn: 
Vrischika 20°55'; Rahu: Tula 28°26'; Ketu: Mesha 28°26'. 
This is the same as Chart XXl-5 under Dhana yogas (q.v.). 

Ketu Mars Moon 

Sun 
Mercury 

Venus Chart XXI-5 
fl Birth Chart 
l.agna March 12, 1957 

Saturn Rahu Jup(R) 

Sunrise (on March 11, 1957) =6:49a.m. 
No. of hours elapsed from sunrise to time of birth= 28 hours 30 minutes (i.e., the time of 
birth) minus 
6 hours 49 minutes (sunrise), or 21 hours 41 minutes. 
Ishta-Kaala, converted to signs, degrees, etc., 
21s20.5° or 9s20°30' 
Since the birth lagna is even, the Hora lagna is obtained by adding the Ishta-Kaala to the 
cusp of the birth lagna. 

Thus, s 0 

the lagna 9 10 38 
lshta-Kaala 9 20 30 
Hora lagna 19 1 8 

or (removing multiples of 12 signs) 7s1 °8', i.e., Vrischika 1°8'. 
Considering the above three groups of longevity, we have: 
Group 1: Lagna lord (Saturn): Sthira (Vrischika) 



Eighth lord: Sthira (Simha) 
Longevity: Alpayu (short span) 

Group II:Lagna: Chara (Makara) 
Moon: Dwiswabhava (Mithuna) 
Longevity: Alpayu (short span) 

Group IILLagna: Chara (Makara) 

Hora lagna: Sthira (Vrischika) 
Longevity: Madhyayu (medium span) 

Since two of the above groups indicate Alpayu (short life span), that must be accepted. 
An alternate method 
Mantreswara describes an alternative method of finding the life span by considering the 
following factors: 

Group I: Drekkana sign of(a) the lagna, and (b) the Moon 
Group II: Navamsha sign of(a) the lagna lord, and (b) lord ofthe Moon sign 

Group III: Dwadashamsha sign of (a) the lagna lord and (b) the eighth lord. 
Applying these principles to the example chart above, we have: 

Group I 
Lagna Drekkana sign: Sthira (Vrisha) 
Moon's Drekkana sign: Sthira (Kumbha) 

Longevity: Alpayu (short span) 

Note: Construct a Drekkana chart for this. 
Group II 

Sign occupied by the lagna lord (Saturn) in the Navamsha chart: Chara (Makara) 
Sign occupied by the lord of the Moon sign (Mercury) in the Navamsha chart: 
Dwiswabhava (Meena) 
Longevity: Alpayu (short span) 

Note: See the Navamsha chart for this. 

Group III 
Sign occupied by the lagna lord (Saturn) in the Dwadashamsha chart: Chara 
(Karka) 

Sign occupied by the eighth lord (Sun) in the Dwadashamsha chart: Chara 
(Makara) 



Longevity Poornayu (Full span) 
Note: Construct a Dwadashamsha chart for this purpose. 
Since two of the above groups indicate Alpayu, that must be accepted. 

It may be noted here that this method ofMantreshwara deserves to be researched on. It 
has been applied less often in actual horoscopes. 
Other combinations that indicate the length of life are as follows: 
1.Ail benefics in kendras: Poornayu 
2.All benefics in panapharas: Madhyayu 
3.Ail benefics in apoklimas: Alpayu 
4.Eighth lord and all malefics in kendras: Alpayu 
5.Eighth lord and all malefics in panapharas: Madhyayu 
6.Eighth lord and all malefics in apoklimas: Poornayu 
7 .Strong lagna lord, benefics in kendras, and malefics in houses 3 ,6, 11: Poornayu 
S.Stronger of the lagna lord and the eighth lord in a kendra indicates Poornayu, in a 
panaphara Madhyayu, and in an apoklima Alpayu. 
9 .Lagna lord and the eighth lord located in their own houses ensure Poornayu, in the 
houses of neutrals Madhyayu, and in inimical houses Alpayu. 
I 0. Weak lagna lord in the houses 6, 8 or 12, bereft of benefic aspect: Alpayu 
ll.Maleficsin kendras, bereft ofbenefic aspect, and the lagna lord being weak: Alpayu 
12Malefics in houses 2 and 12, sans benefic aspect: Alpayu 



Methods of Mathematical Calculation of Longevity 

11 may be pointed out at the outset that mathematical methods of calculation of 
longevity do not always prove accurate in actual horoscopes. The actual length of life 
appears to be a divine secret not to be deciphered too easily. There are several methods 
available some of which are being described below. 

I. PINDAYU 
According to this method of calculation of longevity, the seven planets, from the 

Sun to Saturn, contribute 19, 25, 15, 12, 15, 21 and 20 years respectively, when at their 
points of exaltation. They each contribute half this period (i.e., 9.5, 12.5, 7.5, 6, 7.5, 
10.5 and 10 years respectively) at their points of debilitation. Between deep exaltation 
and deep debilitation, they contribute proportional amounts. 

Step I: Find out the distance of a planet from its point of debilitation by 
subtracting this latter point from the longitude of the planet. This gives the 'arc' of 
longevity. 

Note: The same 'arc' of longevity is obtained by subtracting either of the planet's 
longitude and its debilitation point from the other. In case the result exceeds 180 
degrees (six signs), this must be subtracted from 360 degrees (or 12 signs). 

Step II: Since 180 degrees (between exaltation and debilitation) corresponds to 
half the age contributed by the planet, find the actual age contributed by the arc of 
longevity, from the number of degrees the planet is removed from its debilitation 
point. 

Step III: Add the above value to half the age contributed by the planet (since 
this amount is contributed by the planet anyway, even at deep debilitation). 

Let us apply this information to the example chart being considered in this chapter. 



SUN s 0 

Debilitation a•oint 6 10 0 
S1m 's IH"f'St'llt J,usition 10 27 :-1 

.-\I·<' of Ionge'\i t~· 4 17 51 

or 137° 51' 
Sm1's contt·ihutiou ""'95 (i.e .• h~llf the Smt's COHtt·ihutioH) 

9.5 . 137~51' 
+ 

ISO 
= 16.775 ~"t':ll'S. 

"lJOON 
Debilitation }»Oint i 3 0 
1\Ioon's Jll't'.~t'Ht }»osition 2 29 56 

4 3 4 

01" 123° 4' 
125 . 123°4' 

1\Ioou•s coufl·ihution = 12.5 + 
ISO 

= 21.046 yeat·s. 

Jll-tRS :; 0 

Debilitation Jtoint .~.>  2S 0 
1\I:u's Jn·eseut positin 1 3 1 

2 24 :-9 
or 84° 59' 

7.5 . 84°59' 
1\l:\1' 's <'Olltt·ihutiou = 7.5+ 

ISO 
= 11.041 ~·e~u·s. 



oliERCURY s ... 
Debilitation point 11 1!' 0 
1\Iercur::-·'s present position 10 19 50 

.A.1·c of" longe,it::-· 0 25 10 

OJ" 2f; ... 10' 
6 25°10' 

l\Ierc•u·y's conn·ibution 6 + 
180 

6.839 ::-·ea1·s. 
JllPITER 

Debilitation point 9 ::;. 0 
Jupiter's JU'esent position 5 4 22 

0 38 
OJ" 120° 38' 

7.5 • 120"38' 
Jupiter's conn·ibntion = 7.5+ 

180 
12.526 ::-·ea•·s.  

VEiYliS ... 
Debilitation point 5 27 0 
'\'en us's p1·esent J> osition 10 19 20 

4 22 20 

OJ' 142" 22' 
10.5 . 142°22' 

= .10.5 + 
180 

= 18.803 :"·ears•  
• .s 
~ -ITlJR.Y ... 

Debilitation point 0 20 0 
Sanu·n's 1n·esent Jlosition 7 20 55 

4 29 

or 149" 05' 
10 . 149"'05' 

Sattu·n' s conn·iiJntion 10+ 
180 

= .18.282 ::-·e•us. 



Note: Detailed steps in actual determination of the arc of longevity have been omitted in 
the above calculations. See 'Note' to Step 1, wide supra, for details. 
Thus the years contributed by the seven planets are as follows: 
Sun: 16.775 
Moon: 21.046 
Mars: 11.041 
Mercury: 6.839 
Jupiter: 12.526 
Venus: 18.803 
Saturn: 18.282 
Haranas or Reductions 

The above values of longevity contributed by the seven planets are subjected to 
four stages of Haranas or reductions. These are as follows: 
A. Astangata Harana (a reduction consequent upon combustion): 
Planets become combust when close to the Sun. Their limits are as follows: 
Moon within 12° of the Sun. 
Mars within 17° of the Sun. 
Mercury within 14° ofthe Sun. (within 12° if retrograde) 
Jupiter within 11° of the Sun, 
Venus within 10° of the Sun, (within 8° if retrograde) 
Saturn within 15°ofthe Sun. 
A combust planet loses half his contributed years. 
Exceptions: Saturn and Venus. They are not subject to reduction due to combustion. 
The example chart shows conjunction of Venus and Mercury with the Sun. Both are 
combust but only Mercury loses half its contributed years. 
The years contributed by the seven planets after Astangata Harana would thus be: 

Sun: 16.775 
Moon: 21.046 
Mars: 11.041 
Mercury: 3.419 (reduced by half) 
Jupiter: 12.526 
Venus: 18.803 



Saturn: 18 .282 
B. Shatru-Kshetra Harana (or reduction consequent upon occupation of an enemy's 
house): One-third of the contributed age (after Astangata Harana stage) is lost if a planet 
is in an enemy's house. 

Exceptions: 
(i) Retrograde planets. 
(ii) Mars, according to some. 

In the example chart, the Sun, Jupiter and Saturn occupy the houses of their natural 
enemies. Of these, Jupiter is retrograde and falls under exceptions. The Sun and Saturn, 
however, lose their contributed age by one-third. 
Thus, the years contributed by the seven planets after Shatru-Kshetra Harana are: 

Sun: 11.183 
Moon: 21.046 
Mars: 11.041 
Mercury: 3.419 
Jupiter: 12.526 
Venus: 18.803 
Saturn: 12.188 

C. Chakrapaata Harana (or reduction consequent upon the placement of planets in the 
six houses ,from the seventh house to the twelfth house). This reduction is more if the 
planets are in the twelfth house, and progressively less as they occupy houses f 1, 10, 9, 8 
and 7. Benefics cause halfthe loss as compared to malefics. 

House L•'·\~· 'frcllll L cl.\~· frcml 
occupied mul~{ics benefics 

12 whole- one half 
11 Ollf' h;llf one-fom·th 
10 o u e- th ire l one-sixth 
9 oue-fom·th one-eighth 
s one-fifth one-tenth 
7 one-sb:th oue-twelfth 

Note: 



(a) When there are multiple planets in one house, only the strongest planet causes 
reduction in the contributed age. 
(b) Weak Moon is not to be considered a malefic in longevity calculation. 

In the example chart: Saturn, a malefic, in the eleventh house loses half its contribution. 
Jupiter, a benefic, in the ninth house loses one-eighth of its contribution. 

The years contributed by the seven planets after the Chakrapata reduction are: 
Sun: 11.183 
Moon: 21.046 
Mars: 11.041 
Mercury: 3.419 
Jupiter: 10.960 
Venus: 18.803 
Saturn: 6.094 
Total: 82.546 years 

D. Krurodaya Harana (or reduction consequent upon the occupation of the lagna by a 
malefic): This reduction is applied if the lagna is occupied by a malefic (Sun, Mars or 
Saturn). The procedure here is thus: 

(a) Convert the degrees, etc., of the lagna into minutes. 
(b) Multiply the above minutes by the age contributed by each planet. 
(c) Divide the value obtained by Chakraliptaa (i.e., 21,600 minutes; i.e., the total 
number of minutes in the zodiac). 
(d) The quotient is reduced from the total Ayu or span of life obtained earlier. This 
gives the span of life according to the Pindayu calculation. 

Note: 
(i) If the malefics occupy the lagna but there is also a benefic aspect, only half 
the reduction is to be applied. 
(ii) If the lagna is occupied by both malefics and benefics, the planet nearest to 
the cusp of the lagna must be considered. For example, if a benefic lies closer 
to the cusp of the lagna compared to a malefic, this reduction is not applied. 
(iii) Another method to obtain the Krurodaya reduction is thus: 

The number of the Navamsha rising in the lagna, multiplied by the age contributed 
by each planet, and divided by 108 (the total number ofNavamshas in the zodiac). The 
quotient is reduced from the total span of life. The maximum reduction to be effected 
could reach upto one-twelfth of the total longevity in case the lagna happens to be at the 
very end of a sign. 

In the example chart, the lagna is not occupied by malefics. The Krurodaya 



reduction is thus not applicable here. 
Contribution from the lagna 

Some authorities suggest that age contributed by the lagna should be added to the 
total Pindayu obtained from the above method. This is calculated as follows: 

(a) If the lord of the lagna is stronger: The completed signs indicating the lagna 
represent the number of years, while the degrees and minutes of the cusp of the 
lagna represent the equivalent months and days (i.e., one sign or 30 degrees 
represent one year). 

(b) Ifthe lord ofthe navamsha lagna is stronger: The navamsha rising in the lagna 
represents the number ofyears, months and days to be contributed. The method for 
this is the same as that for finding out the contribution of lagna in Amshayu (Vide 
infra). 

(c) If the lagna lord and the navamsha lord are equally strong: Add the total 
contribution from both to the Pindayu already obtained. 

II. AMSHAYU 

The procedure for this method of longevity determination involves the following steps. 

Step I Convert the signs, degrees and minutes of a planet's longitude, as well as the 
cusp ofthe lagna into minutes. 

Step 2 Divide each of the above separately by 200. 

Step 3 If the quotient is more than twelve, divide it by 12 to obtain the number of 
years. 

Step 4 The remainder obtained from step 2 gives the fraction of the year (in 
months, days, etc.). 

Step 5 The total life span contributed by the lagna as well as the various planets is 
subjected to the Bharanas (additions) and Haranas (reductions) to obtain the actual 
age. 



Planet Longitude Minutes Contributed years 
9 • Divided by 200 

!.Sun 327 51 19671 98.355 
2.:\loon 89 56 5396 26.980 
3.Mars 33 01 1981 9.995 
~.:\Iercm~· 319 50 19190 95.950 
5 .Jupiter 154 22 9262 46.310 
6. Venus 319 20 19160 95.800 
7.Satut·n 230 55 13855 69275 
S.Lagna 280 38 16838 84.190 

The actual years of Amshayu contributed by the different planets and the lagna are as 
follows: 

Sun: 2.355 (obtained by removing multiples of 12 from contributed years, i.e., 
98.355) 
Moon: 2.980 
Mars: 9.995 
Mercury: 11.950 
Jupiter: I 0.310 
Venus: 11.800 
Saturn: 9.275 
Lagna: 0.190 

The Bharanas (or additions) 
(a) Exaltation, retrogression: treble the contributed age. 
(b) Vargottama, own house, own Navamsha, or own Drekkana: Double the 
contributed age. 
(c) Where several multiplications crop up, apply only one which is the highest. 

In the example chart, the Moon is V argottama; Mercury is in its own Drekkana; Jupiter is 
retrograde and Saturn is in its own Navamsha. Jupiter's contribution is trebled while that 
of the others is doubled. The Amshayu, in years, after the Bharanas, would be: 

Sun: 2.355 



Moon: 5.960 
Mars: 9.995 
Mercury: 23.900 
Jupiter: 30.930 
Venus: 11.800 
Saturn: 18.550 
Lagna: 0.190 

17'E Haranas (or reductions) 
These are similar to those in Pindayu calculation except that the Krurodaya 

reduction is not applied here. In addition, if several reductions are applicable to a planet, 
only the larger reduction must be applied. 
We have already seen in the example chart that: 
I. Astangata reduction (one-halt) applies to Mercury; 
2. Shatru-Kshetra reduction (one-third) applies to the Sun and Saturn (Jupiter being 
retrograde is an exception); and 
3. Chakrapaata reduction applies to Saturn (one-halt) and Jupiter (one-eighth). 
Note: Since Saturn is subject to two reductions, Shatru-Kshetra and Chakrapaata, only the 
larger one, i.e., the Chakrapaata, is applicable. 
The contributed Amshayu will thus be: 

Sun: 1.177 
Moon: 5.960 
Mars: 9.995 
Mercury: 11.950 
Jupiter: 27.064 
Venus: 11.800 
Saturn: 9.275 
Lagna: 0.190 
Total: 77.411 years 

III. NISARGAYU 
From birth onwards, the various planets contribute a fixed number of years in a fixed 
order, as follows: 

Moon: I year 
Mars: 2 years 



Mercury: 9 years 
Venus: 20 years 
Jupiter: I8 years 
Sun: 2 0 years 
Saturn: 50 years 

Note: 
(i) It has been said that of the Sun, the Moon and the lagna: 

(a) Ifthe lagna is the strongest, apply Amshayu. 
(b) If the Sun is the strongest, apply Pindayu. 
(c) If the Moon is the strongest, apply Nisargayu 

(ii) It may be pointed out that methods of calculation of longevity by mathematical 
means are generally unsatisfactory. Dependance on the determination of the life-span 
(e.g., Alpayu, Madhyayu and Poornayu) as mentioned earlier, co-ordinated with 
appropriate maraka or adverse dasha periods, gives more reliable results. 



Death-inflicting Dashas 

Mention has been made of the role of marakas elsewhere. A few additional points are 
made here: 
I. If in the order of the Vimshottari main dasha, the fourth dasha belongs to Saturn, or 
the fifth to Mars, or the sixth to Jupiter, or the seventh to Rahu, these dashas can prove 
fatal (or adverse for health). 
2. If the Vimshottari dasha of a combust or debilitated or otherwise weak planet happens 
to be the third or the fifth or the seventh in order, it is again to be watched. 
3. The dashas of Chhidra grahas or vulnerable planets can also cause death or disease. 
The Chhidra grahas are: 

(a) The eighth house lord. 
(b) Occupant of the eighth house. 
(c) Planet aspecting the eighth house. 
(d) Owner of the 22nd Drekkana (from the lagna). 
(e) Associate ofthe eighth house lord. 
(f) Owner of the 64th Navamsha (from the Moon). 
(g) The bitter enemy (Adhi-shatru) of the eighth lord. 

Note: Since determination of longevity is a difficult subject, and the mathematical 
formulae unreliable in this regard, a great caution must be exercised in making 
predictions about longevity and time of death. 



... XXIV ... 

Astrology of Health and Disease 

-Gm' ";f ~9{1 ;r ~: I 
Jt~ IIP4l41£1~ ·~ lfl{t4 II 

"' 
For the one who has attained a body made ofthefire ofYoga, 
there exists neither disease nor senescence nor death. 

Shvetashvatara Upanishad Il/12 

Analysis of an astrological chart in respect of health and disease is often a matter of 
fine judgement. It requires a judicious balancing of the often conflicting factors which 
tend to cause ill-health on the one hand, and protect the native on the other. This means 
that a horoscope has to be judged: 
(a) For inherent strength, which ensures good health and recovery from disease; and 
(b) For inherent weakness which manifests as illness at times indicated by the dasha 
pattern. 



Status of Health 

The folowing factors must be considered in order to determine the soundness, or 
otherwise, of health. 
I. The lagna: The single most important factor for sound health is the soundness of the 
lagna (and its lord). A lagna is strong and ensures good health if it is: 

(a) Occupied by its own lord; 
(b) Aspected by its own lord; 
(c) Occupied by natural benefics; 
(d) Aspected by natural benefics; 
(e) Occupied by strong or exalted planets; 
(J) Occupied or aspected by fuctional benefics; 
(g) Unaspected or un-occupied by natural or functional malefics. 
Note: The nearer a benefic planet is to the cusp of the lagna, the stronger does the 
lagna become. Conjunctions within one degree have a very profound influence. 
A lagna becomes weak if it is: 
(a) Neither occupied nor aspected by its own lord; 
(b) Neither occupied nor aspected by natural benefics; 
(c) Neither occupied nor aspected by functional benefics; 
(d) Occupied or aspected by natural malefics and functional malefics; 
(e) Occupied by debilitated or weak planets. 
Note: If a debilitated or a weak planet is placed within one degree of the cusp of the 
lagna, it has an adverse influence on the soundness of health. 

2. The lagna lord: For a sound health, the lagna lord must be: 
(a) Strong or exalted in the Rashi chart as well as the vargas; 
(b) Associated with benefics; 
(c) Aspected by benefics; 
(d) Placed in benefic houses. 

A lagna lord behaves adversely if it is: 
(a) Weak or debilitated in the Rashi chart and the vargas; 
(b) Associated with malefics; 
(c) Aspected by malefics; 
(d) Placed in adverse houses, e.g., houses 6, 8 or 12. 



Note: 
(a) Here again, a close association of the lagna lord with a benefic or a malefic is 
important. Planets located within one degree of the lagna lord exert a more intense 
influence. 
(b) When the lagna or the lagna lord are V argottama (falling in the same sign in the 
Rashi as well as the Navamsha charts), they become particularly strong and capable 
ofwithstanding several adverse influences. 

3 . Status of the Moon: Strength of the Moon is important for maintenance of sound 
health. Adverse placement (in the sixth, eighth or twelfth) of the Moon leads to ill health 
in childhood (Balarishta). Association or aspect of malefics or opposition by malefics is 
equally adverse. If there are combinations in the horoscope which protect the native in 
childhood, ill health is likely to occur later when the cycle of dashas gets involved in the 
'Balarishta' combination. In other words, a Balarishta acts as a weakness in the horoscope 
which may manifest in later years during an appropriate dasha. 
4. The role of Kendras and Trikonas: The kendras are like four pillars of a horoscope. 
Along with the trikonas, they form the most important houses of a horoscopic chart. 
Benefics located in the kendras and the trikonas go a long way to ensure sound health for 
the native. When malefics are placed in these houses, they indicate disease. 
Note: Retrograde benefics do not protect against disease. Instead they cause ill health 
during their dasha or antardasha. Retrograde malefics are worse. Retrograde benefics 
aspected by natural malefics, as also direct benefics aspected by retrograde natural 
malefics, also behave adversely. 
5 . The Tri-shadayas: Houses 3, 6 and I I are considered bad houses. Their lords too 
behave adversely. When natural malefics are located in these houses, they indicate sound 
health. It may, however, be pointed out that while the presence of malefics in these 
houses protects the native against ill health in general, the dashas and antardashas of these 
planets do disturb health. The lords of these houses also cause ill health during their 
dashas. 
6. The eighth house/eighth lord: The eighth house is the house of longevity. Malefics in 
the eighth house cause chronic or incurable ailments. Saturn, though a malefic, is an 
exception; it ensures sound health and long life by its occupation of the eighth house. 
For good health and long life, the eighth lord must be strong and under benefic 
influences. 
Note: Ifthe lagna and the eighth house are strong in the Sarvashtakavarga, it is good for 
health. When these two houses are weak in the Sarvashtakavarga, they indicate poor 
health. 
7. Role of the Yogas: When strong and benefic yogas form in relation to the lagna or the 
lagna lord, they are good for health. One must carefully look for: 

(a) Formation of Raja yo gas in the lagna. 
(b) Involvement of the lagna lord in the formation of the Raja yogas. 
(c) Benefic Durudhara formation around the lagna or the lagna lord. 



Note: A Durudhara is generally described in relation to the Moon when planets other than 
the Sun occupy the second and the twelfth places from it. When benefics occupy the 
second and the twelfth places from the lagna or the lagna lord, it forms a benefic 
Durudhara, or a 'Shubha-kartari yoga'. When malefics form a Durudhara around the 
lagna or the lagna lord, they indicate adverse health. A direct malefic in the twelfth house 
from the lagna/lagna lord, and a retrograde one in the second from it, is a particularly 
adverse combination since two malefics approach the lagna!lagna lord from the two sides 
and tend to strangulate it. 
8. Appropriate Dasha: It must be realised that planetary disposition in a chart indicates a 
fixed promise. This needs the operation of a dynamic component, in the form of an 
appropriate dasha, to manifest itself. Thus, ill health will only accrue if the relevant 
adverse dasha comes into operation. Thus, both the promise of ill health and the relevant 
dasha are important. The dasha results can be more accurately deciphered if planetary 
transits are combined with the dashas. 



Houses. Signs and Parts of the Bodv 

In order to locate the site of disease, one must be aware of the parts of the body 
indicated by each house of the horoscope or the sign ofthe zodiac. They are as follows: 

House Sign Part o[ the body 
First house Mesha Head 
Second house Ytisha Face; light eye 
Third house Mithuna Shoulders; upper limb; right ear 
Fourth house Karka Chest 
Fifth house Simha Heart; stomach 
Sixth house Kanya Intestines 
Seventh house Tula Umbilical region 
Eighth house Vrischika Generative organs 
Ninth house Dhanu Hips; thighs 
Tenth house Makara Knees 
Eleventh house Kumbha Legs; left ear 
Twelfth house Meena Feet; left eye 



The Role of Drekkanas 

Drekkanas are supposed to have a special relevance to medical astrology. 
Depending upon which Drekkana is rising in the Iagna, it may be possible to locate the 
site of disease in the body. 
The three Drekkanas represent three divisions of the body: 

(a) From the head to the mouth; 
(b) From the neck to the navel; and 
(c) From the pelvis to the feet. 

The various parts of the body depending upon the rising Drekkana, are indicated in 
Table XXIV-I. 



Table XXIV -1 
Drekkanas and Body Pa11s 

Based on the Drekkana rising in the lagna. 

House 1st Drekkana 2ndDrekkana 3rdDrekkana 

ht Head Neck Pelvis 
2m Right eye Right shoukler Organ of 

generation 
3rd Right eat- Right :11'111 Right testicle 
4th Right nostril Right side of body Right thigh 
5th Right cheek Right side (altium Right knee 

& ventricle) of 
the heart. 

6th Right jaw- Right lung Right ca1f 
& breast 

7th Mouth Naval Legs and feet 
8fu Left jaw- Left lung Left ca1f 

& breast 
9th Left cheek Left skle of Left knee 

the heart 
10111 Left nostril Left ann Left thigh 
11th Left ear Leflann Left testicle 
12th Left eye Left shoulder Anus 



The Planets 

Success in making any predictions depends on an understanding of the interaction 
among the planets, the houses as well as the signs. Different planets provide specific 
indications relevant to medical astrology. Very briefly, they are given below. 

Sun: Pitta (the bile element); heart and eye disease; gall bladder disease; burns. 
Moon: Kapha (the phlegm element); mental stability; menstrual disorders; diseases 
of the breast. 
Mars: Pitta; accidents and surgical operations; burns; menstrual disorders; the bone 
marrow. 
Mercury: All the three doshas, i.e., Vaata (the wind element), Pitta and Kapha; 
discrimination; nervous breakdown; temperament; skin disease. 
Jupiter: Kapha; liver; gall bladder; diabetes; obesity. 
Venus: Vaata and Kapha; sexual perversions; venereal disease; eye sight; urinary 
system; intestines; appendix. 
Saturn: Vaata; chronic or incurable disease; paralysis; diseases oflegs and feet. 
Rahu!Ketu: Chronic and incurable diseases; poisoning; snake bite; worm 
infestations; viral diseases; eruptive fevers. 



Diagnosis of an Illness 

It may be pointed out here that making a diagnosis on the basis of a horoscopic 
chart is a difficult area. The modem allopathic diagnosis demands an elaborate 
understanding of the pathogenesis of a disease and requires long years of training. The 
astrological methods could not be any simpler. To make any coherent diagnosis on 
astrological grounds, without understanding the process of disease, is not at all possible. 
Some self-styled astra-diagnosticians may resent these strong remarks. However, at best, 
they can only indicate that a given native is suffering from a heart disease or a kidney 
ailment or some intestinal trouble. This information is often provided by the patient 
himself and the astrologer need not go into the rig ours of his techniques. An astrologer 
can only be helpful if he is able to provide an elaborate scientific diagnosis, and guide the 
physician in his treatment process. 

Unfortunately, the allopathic system has not strived to understand the basis of the 
erstwhile vastly prevalent, and far more efficient, system of Ayurveda. It is much easier 
to use astrology to indicate the basis of an illness according to the Ayurvedic principles. 
Some method of translating the ancient Ayurveda into modem allopathy, and vice versa, 
has to be evolved for the benefit not only of astrology but of allopathy and Ayurveda as 
well. Until then, the actual diagnosis of disease is best left to the physician or the 
researching astra-physician. 



Timing an Illness 

Far less tedious than making an astrological diagnosis is the area of timing a likely 
illness and determining its outcome. This needs the application of some standard 
principles of astrology. They are briefly discussed below. 
l.Dasha offunctional malefics: Elsewhere, while discussing the nature of planets, 
mention has been made of planets which behave as malefics depending upon the lordship 
of houses in a horoscopic chart. Natural benefics can behave as malefics if they own 
adverse houses. It is the lagna which decides the nature of various planets. 

Since the lagna stands for the body of the native, planets adversely disposed toward 
a particular lagna can indicate ill health. It is important to carefully study the nature of 
planets whose dasha is operating at a given time. 
2.Role ofthe Trik houses/Trik lords: Particularly important in causing ill health are the 
dashas and antaradashas of the lords of the Trik houses, or houses 6, 8 and 12. Lords of 
these houses transmit their maleficence to other planets whom they aspect or associate 
with. Planets placed in Trik houses are also adverse and cause chronic ailments. 
3.Retrograde planets: Dashas of rerograde planets, more so when they are located in the 
kendras or in association with the lagna lord, produce ill health during their dasha 
periods. 
4.Weak planets: Dashas of planets which are combust, ill-placed or debilitated, 
particularly if they do not regain strength in the Navamsha or other divisional charts, are 
also adverse for health. If the dasha lord is weak, there is poor resistance against disease 
and general lack of strength. 
S.The Rahu-Ketu Axis (RKA): The RKAfalling on the lagna or the dasha lords tends to 
afflict them and ensures ill health, if other indications for ill health exist in the chart. 
6.Lords of 22nd Drekkana/64th Navamsha: These are additional adverse factors for 
health. 
1 .Protecth·e influences: Whenever a chart is being examined for health and disease, 
particular attention should be paid toward factors that protect against illness. When there 
are strong influences protecting a native, mild fluctuations in dasha sequence do not 
disturb health. In this connection, favourble transits must also be taken note of. 
Unfavourable transits have contrary influence. 
8.The dasha sequence: This is important in deciding the outcome of disease. In general, 
the dasha sequence has the following influence: 

(a) Favourable dasha followed by an unfavourable dasha: Occurrence of disease 
(b) Unfavourable dasha followed by a favourable dasha: Recovery. 
(c) Unfavourable dasha followed by another unfavourable dasha: Prolongation of 
disease; complications. 
(d) Unfavourable dasha, followed by an unfavourable dasha, followed by another 
unfavourable dasha: Non-recovery or death. The native may not survive until the 
third unfavourable dasha. 



Pre-reauisitcs for chart analysis 

Medical astrology is a very specialised area. In order to obtain sound results, the 
data must be very accurate and the chart must be subjected to a thorough analysis using 
several methods at any given time. At least the following data must be worked out: 
I .The Rashi chart along with accurate calculation of the cusp of the lagna and the 
longitudes of houses. 
2.The Drekkana, the Navamsha, the Dwadashamsha and, preferably, the Trimshamsha 
charts. 
3.The Vimshottari dasha worked from Mahadasha (MD) through Antaradasha (AD) to 
Pratyantaradasha (PD). Particular attention must be paid to work out the dasha operating at 
the time of birth. 
4.Additional tools for confirmation: 

(a) At least one additional dasha, e.g., the Yogini, or the Chara dasha of Jaimini. 
(b) Ash takavarga. 
(c) Varshaphala or the annual chart for the relevant year(s). 
(d) Transits. 
(e) Prashna or the Horary system, where appropriate. 



Illustrations 

Chart XXIV-l shows the presence of the eighth lord in the lagna. The lagna lord is 
located in an inimical sign and aspected by the sixth lord, the Moon. The lagna is 
variously afflicted in the Navamsha, the Drekkana as well as the Dwadashamsha chart. 
Some relief is provided by Jupiter aspecting the lagna lord in the Rashi, Navamsha and 
the Drekkana charts, and additionally the lagna in the Navamsha. 

The native was born in Mars-Jupiter. In Mars-Saturn he was detected to have 
developed allergy to milk and egg proteins. This worsened during the AD of Mercury. 
Mercury is particularly bad as the lord of the eighth house and also of the 22nd 
Drekkana. Mars is a functional malefic. Jupiter owns the 64th Navamsha. The child also 
suffers from Autism. 



Jupiter 
Rahu Moon 
Mars 

I? 
Lagna 

Mercury Chart XX I V-1 
Birth Chart 

Sun Feb. S, 19S7 

Venus S01turn 1\ctu 

Lagna s·46' Mars 27'59' Venus 1o ·1r 
Suu 25.35' Mercury 13.04' Saturn 25.26' 
Moon 27.13' Jupiter 1·1s' R:thu 19"31 I 

Mars 1\ctu 

Jupiter 
Saturn Venus 

Nava111sha 
MercuiJ' Sun 

~ 
Rahu Lagua Moon 



Jupiter Venus i\'lcrcnr: 

l?' 
Saturn 

L:t;.:n:t 
' Rahu 

Drekkana 
Moon 
Ketu 

Mars Sun 

!?'l;1gna 
Moon 
Jupiter Venus 

Ketu 

Mars Mercury 
I) w:•tla~h:~msh;~ 

Sun Rahu Saturn 

The native of Chart XXIV-2 had multiple stones removed from his right kidney and 
ureter during the Vimshottari MD'AD of Sun-Ketu. The lagna is occupied by a debilitated 
natural malefic while the lagna lord occupies the adverse sixth house in association with 
Ketu. There is no benefic aspect either on the lagna or the lagna lord. Also there are no 
benefics in either the kendras or the trikonas. The native is thus prone to ill health. 



Jup(R) Rahu 

r 
Sat(R) ,. 

Chart A.\:IV-2 Lal!na 
Hirth Chart IVIQI _, 

Oct. 12, 1964 Venus 

Moon Sun 
Ketu 1\ lcrcur) 

Lagna 26*41' Mars 22" .JO' Venus 13.35' 
Sun 25.09' ;\ lcrcur.·· 22"16' Saturn (R) s·2r 
Moon 4.42' jupiter '< R) 1.34' Raina 2·1R' 

l9" 
Lagna Ketu Moon 

Mercury 
Venus 

N;l\~llnsh;l 

Mars 
Saturn Suu 

Saturn Rahu 

l:f' Sun 
Lagna Mercury 
Mars Rahu 

Jupiter 

Saturn 

Drekkana 

Moon 
Venus 
Ketu 



Mars ~Lagna 
Rahu 

Saturn Mercury 
Jupiter 

Sun 
Dwadashamsha 

Moon 
Venus 

Ketu 

In the Navamsha, the lagna lord is debilitated, associated with a natural malefic 
Mars and aspected by another malefic Saturn. No benefics occupy the kendras although 
three benefics lie along the 5/ll axis which may be considered as favourable. 

The MD of the Sun coincided with ill health. The Sun is associated with a functional 
malefic for Karka lagna and is aspected by a retrograde sixth lord. The Sun also owns 
and occupies the 64th Navamsha. Ketu the AD lord is located in the sixth house along 
with the lagna lord. In the Drekkana, Ketu is associated with the eighth lord, and in the 
Dwadashamsha it occupies the eighth house. 

It may also be noted that both the lagna and the Moon fall in the Gandanta (q.v.). 
The subsequent MD of the Moon is not totally without blemish as the Moon is 

variously afflicted, by placement or by natural/functional malefics, in all the divisional 
charts. 

The native of Chart XXIV-3 is a doctor with a powerful Dhana yoga caused by the 
placement of the lagna lord in the second house, the second lord in the eleventh house, 
and the eleventh lord in the lagna. Two planets are debilitated. Of these, the Sun is at its 
exact debilitation point and located in the lagna. The lagna receives the aspect of Saturn, 
and the lagna lord of Mars. The lagna is afflicted in all the charts. 



Rahu 

Chart XXIV-3 
Hirth Chart 

Mars 
Jupiter Oct. 27, 1949 

Saturn 

I~L :•gna Mercurv 
i\J(XIII Venus SUI) Ketu* 

Lagna 7"35' Mars (>"51' Venus 25.40' 
Sun 10*08' i\h:n:ury 24.26' Saturn 22*49' 
Moon 19"53' Jupiter 1*28' Rahu 22"2i' 



Mars 

Venus Kctu 

Navamsha 
Sun 

Jupiter 1\lcrcur) 
Rahu 
~ 

Lagna Saturn Moon 

Moon Ketu 
Saturn Mercury 

Sun Venus 

Drekkana 
Jupiter Mars 

tf' 
Rahu Lagna 

Saturn }.·lcrcury 
Ketu 

Sun Moon 

fP' Dwadashamsha 
Lagna 

Jupiter 

Rahu Mars Venus 



Since the onset of the Rahu dasha, the native has been suffering from progressive 
rheumatoid polyarthritis, with joint deformities. Rahu (a malefic) in the sixth house 
should normally indicate sound health. However, it must give the results of the sixth 
house (disease) during its own dasha particularly when the lagna is so weak and afflicted. 
In the Rashi, Navamsha as well as the Drekkana, Rahu is aspected by Mars; in the 
Dwadashamsha it is aspected by Saturn. 

Chart XXIV-4 shows the placement of the eighth lord, the Sun, in the lagna, and the 
Moon in the eighth house, in a typical Balarishta combination. The Moon is also in 
Gandanta (q.v.), falls in the 22nd Drekkana, and owns the 64th Navamsha. It receives the 
adverse aspect of Saturn which also aspects the Sun and the lagna. Malefics alone occupy 
the kendras. The only benefic aspect on the lagna is that of Jupiter, which is retrograde. 



Mars Ketu 

Chart XXIV-4 
ff' Birth Chart 

Lagna Jan. 18, 1957 Moon 
Sun 

Mer(R) Saturn 
Venus Rahu Jup{R) 

Lagna 0*30' Mars 0"24' Vcnu~ 13"16' 
Sun 4"28' Mercury (R) 19.02' S;nurn 17" 4(,' 
Moon 0"18' Jupiter (R) s·J2' R;,hu 3"46' 

Moon 
Jupiter 

Mars 

Sun 
Ketu Venus 

ff' Navamsha 

Lagna Rahu 

Saturn :-.lcrcur) 



Mars 
Satum Venus Ketu 

1\lcrcury 

It' Drekkana 
Lagna Moon 
Sun 

Rahu Jupiter 

Saturn 
Mars Venus Ketu 

Sun Mercury 

P' Dwadashamsha 

Lagna Moon 

ru p iter 
'Rahu 

The Balarishta manifested in the MD of the Moon and AD of Saturn (operative from 
Feb 19, 1994 to Sept 20, 1995). Mercury is the retrograde sixth lord located in the 
twelfth house. It is thus the MD of the seventh lord (a maraka) placed in the eighth house, 
and the AD of the sixth lord (disease) located in the twelfth house (hospitalisation, etc). 
The native has developed an incurable serious illness, a particular type of a lymphoma. 
The important point here is the existence of a Balarishta which manifests at a time when 
the appropriate dasha operates. There is no Arishta-Bhanga as the birth is at night time 
(Sun's longitude greater than the cusp of the lagna!) while the lunar phase is Krishna-
paksha. 

For greater details regarding astrological aspects of health and disease, the reader is 
referred to the Essentials of Medical Astrology by the author. 



... xxv ... 
Varshaphaia or Annual Horoscopy 

The year is verily the lord of all creatures. Of him there are two 
courses, the Southern and the Northern. 

Prashna Upanishad 1/9 

Vedic astrology abounds in techniques. The Vedic method of casting annual 
horoscopes, also called as Varshaphaia or the Tajika system, is a brilliant method of 
applying the transit of planets for a particular year of life of a native. By this is signified 
that the Varshaphaia is essentially a system of transit. It must be applied in association 
with the natal chart. The promise indicated in a natal chart attains fruition during the year 
indicated by an appropriate annual chart. The annual chart also provides more detailed 
information about an event. This branch of astrology, therefore, provides an additional 
predictive tool in the hands of an astrologer. 



Basis of Vedic Annual Chart 

The Varshaphaia is Sun-based. That is to say that it considers the position of the 
Sun in the zodiac as of prime importance. The annual chart for a given year of the native 
is cast for a time when the Sun attains the same longitude as it had at the time of his birth. 
After each sidereal year, the Sun would return to its original position. This time of solar 
return is thus important. An annual horoscopic chart is also known as the solar return 
chart. 



Solar cvcle 

We are aware that a sidereal year consists of three hundred and sixty five days, six 
hours, nine minutes and some ten seconds. This means that the Sun, after this duration of 
time, attains its original longitude in the zodiac. If we add the above time duration to the 
time of birth of a native, we get a time next year when the Sun would regain its original 
longitude. Adding the same time duration each year, we get successive moments of solar 
return for successive years of life of a native. The moment of solar return is also called as 
Varsha-pravesha. A horoscope cast for Varsha-pravesha derived for a particular year of 
life of the native is called an annual chart or a Varsha-kundali. 

If we remove the completed (i.e., fifty two) weeks from the time duration of a 
sidereal year (i.e., 365 days 6 hours 9 minutes I 0 seconds), we get a remainder of 1 day 
6 hours 9 minutes and 10 seconds. lfthis is added to the weekday of birth of a native, we 
get the week day next year when the solar return occurs. Multiples of this value, added to 
the day and time of birth, help us obtain the weekday of the solar return or Varsha-
pravesha for any specified year of life. This value of 1d  6h 9m lOs is a constant for one 
year and is called as Dhruvanka. 

When the Dhruvanka for one year is added to the day and time of birth, it yields 
the Varshapravesha for the second year. When Dhruvanka for two years is added instead, 
it yields the Varshapravesha for the third year. Thus, the Dhruvanka for any number of 
completed years of life, when added to the day and time of birth, yields the 
Varshapravesha for a subsequent year of life. The weekday of Varshapravesha as 
obtained above generally falls on the calendar birthday of the native, or may fall a day 
before or a day after the actual birthday. 

A horoscope cast for the weekday as worked out above, falling on or around a 
native's natural birthday, yields the annual chart. 



Casting an Annual Chart 

Constructing an annual chart involves the following steps: 
!.Note down the birth details: Name, time of birth, date of birth, place of birth and the 
day ofbirth. 
2.Cast a birth chart for the native and work out the dashas as required. Particularly work 
out the dasha, Antaradasha and Pratyantaradasha for the year for which the annual chart 
is being considered. 
3.Decide on the particular calender year for which the annual chart is to be constructed. 
This may be considered as the current year. 
4.Find the completed years of life by subtracting the year of birth from the current year. 
S.Add the Dhruvanka for the completed years (see Table XXV-I) to the weekday 
(consider '0' for Sunday, '1' for Monday, etc.) and time of birth. This gives the 
V arshapravesha. 
6.Cast a horoscope (ascendant, planets, etc.) in the usual manner for the Varshapravesha 
obtained above. This is the annual horoscope for the current year. 

Note: It will be noted that the longitude of the Sun as obtained for the above 
Varshapravesha may differ from the Sun's longitude in the birth chart by a few minutes. 
This difference is due to the disturbance of the longitude of the Sun by the planets and 
must be ignored. 



TableX.'\..Y-1 

Completed Dhruvanka Completed Dhruvanka 
years d h 111 s years d , Ill s 

1 1 6 9 10 20 4 3 3 14 
2 2 12 18 19 25 3 9 49 3 
3 3 18 27 29 30 2 16 34 52 
A 5 0 36 39 35 1 23 20 40 
5 6 6 AS 49 40 1 6 6 29 
6 0 12 54 58 45 0 12 52 17 
7 1 19 4 8 50 6 19 38 6 
s 3 1 13 18 55 6 2 25 55 
9 4 7 22 27 60 5 9 9 43 
10 5 13 31 37 65 4 15 55 32 
11 6 19 40 47 70 3 22 41 20 
12 1 1 49 57 75 3 5 27 9 
13 1 7 59 6 80 ., 12 12 58 
14 3 14 8 16 90 1 1 44 35 
15 4 20 17 26 100 6 15 16 12 

An Example 
Annual chart for the year commencing February 1993, for a native born on 

Thursday, February 14, 1957 at 1 0:25am (1ST) at Delhi (Lat. 28°N39'; Long. 077°El3'). 
!.Completed years: 
1993- 1957=36 years 
The annual chart will thus be for the 37th year ofthe native. 
2.Day and time ofbirth: 
4d (i.e., Thursday) I Oh 25m Os (1ST) 



3.Dhruvanka for 36 years= 3d Sh 29m 50s 
This value is obtained from the Dhruvanka table (Table XXV-1) by adding Dhruvankas 
for one year to those for 35 years. 
4. Varshapravesha 

d h m s 
Birth da~· and time 4 10 25 0 
plus Dhruvanka for 36 years 3 5 29 50 

7 15 54 50 

Removing the multiple(s) of seven, we get Od 15h 54m 50s 
This gives us the Varshapravesha for the 37th year of the native as falling on Sunday at 
15h 54m 50s (1ST). 
For the year 1993, Sunday nearest to the native's calender birthday falls on Feb 14, i.e., 
his original date of birth. Thus, the Varshapravesha for the native's 37th year of life falls 
on Feb 14, 1993 (Sunday) at ISh 54m 50s (l S1) for Delhi. 
5 .A chart cast for this time would be thus: 

: 

Lagna Karka 3 54 
Suu Kumbha 1 59 
~loon ....  Vrischika 11 52 
Mat·s (R) Mithuna 14 55 
Mercurv Kumbha 17 47 

• : 

Jupiter (R) ....  Kauva 20 30 
Veuus Meeua 15 57 
Saturn Makara 27 44 
Rahu Vrischika 25 22 
Ketu Vrisha 25 22 



Venus Kcm Mars 
(R) 

.f' 
Sun Lagna 

Merucry Chart XXV-1 
y arshaphaia 

Saturn 1993 

Rahu 
Moon Jup(R) 



TheMuntha 

A special feature of the annual horoscope is the location of the Muntha in the chart. 
The Muntha is essentially the birth lagna in transit. At the time of birth, the Muntha is at 
the lagna. Every year it moves by one sign. When the second year of life begins, the 
Muntha shifts to the sign identical with the second house of the birth chart. During the 
third year, it moves to the sign falling in the third house of the annual chart. After twelve 
years it again returns to the sign it occupied at birth. 
The position ofMuntha is obtained thus: 
(No. of completed years+ lagna sign in birth chart)+ 12 
The remainder gives the sign in which the Muntha is placed in the relevant annual chart. 

In case of the native, whose annual chart has been calculated above, the lagna in 
the birth chart is Mesha. In his case the Muntha for the 37th year would be calculated 
thus: 

36 (i.e., completed years)+ 1 (i.e., Mesha), divided by 12 gives us 37 + 12. This 
yields a remainder of one. The Muntha thus falls in Mesha, the first sign. 

In the annual chart, the sign Mesha falls in the tenth house. The Muntha is thus 
marked in the LOth house of the annual chart. 

The Muntha is supposed to be particularly auspicious in houses 9, 10 and 11. In the 
houses 1, 2, 3 and 5 it yields good results during the year through the personal efforts of 
the native. The Muntha is particularly inauspicious in houses 4, 6, 7, 8 and 12 of the 
annual chart. The lord of the Muntha (i.e., the lord of the sign in which Muntha is 
located) too yields adverse results in houses 4, 6, 7, 8 and 12. Elsewhere it proves 
beneficial. 



Other special features of the Annual Chart 

The annual chart has some distinct features when compared with the natal chart. 
These may be briefly mentioned below. 
I .Planetary aspects and relations: There are three types of aspects in an annual chart. 
They are: 

(a) Friendly, between planets placed mutually in houses 3, 5, 9 and II from each 
other. 
(b) Inimical, between planets placed mutually in houses I (conjunction), 4, 7 
(opposition) and 10 from each other. 
(c) Neutral (or no aspect), between planets placed mutually in houses 2, 6, 8 and 12 
from each other. 

Depending upon the above aspects, the planets become friends, enemies and neutrals (or 
equals) of each other. 
2 .Dash as: There are several dash a systems which are employed in the annual chart. Of 
these, the Vimshotttari Mudda dasha (equivalent to the Vimshottari dasha of the natal 
chart) and the Yo gini dash a (equivalent to the Yo gini dash a of the natal chart) are 
popular. The natural cycles of these dashas ( 120 years in case of the Vimshottari and 36 
years in case of the Yogini) are reduced each to a period of one year to render them 
applicable to the annual chart. 
3.The year lord: The lord of the year, also known as the Varshesha, is chosen from 
amongst the planets according to the standard rules of annual horoscopy. The Varshesha 
is generally the strongest planet which influences the lagna by association or aspect. 

The system of Varshaphaia has an elaborate method of determining the strength of 
planets. The various results accrue from an annual chart depending upon the inherent 
strength of the planets. 
4.Yogas: Annual horoscopy employs sixteen different yogas. All major predictions from 
the annual chart are primarily based on an understanding and application of the various 
Tajika yo gas. The important ones among these make use of the actual degrees of 
longitude of planets, their relative motions, their orbs of influence as well as the presence 
or absence of mutual aspects. 
5 .Sahams: Another important feature of the Varshaphaia is the determination of Sahams. 
A Saham is a mathematical point obtained by a manipulation of the longitudes of planets 
and the cusps of houses (esp. the ascendant). There is a Saham for each particular aspect 
of a person, like his brothers, mother, father, children, educatiuon, marriage, illness, 
travel, profession, business, death and the like. Sahams produce their results depending 
upon their strength, weakness and disposition. 



Clues to Interpretation of an Annual Chart 

It must be stressed at the outset that an anual chart must be judged conjointly with 
the birth chart. It is the promise of the birth chart that is confirmed in the annual chart. 
The latter in itself cannot give what the natal chart does not promise. The annual chart 
must be employed to have a more comprehensive view of the events indicated by the 
natal chart. 
!.Position of the birth lagna: The sign identical with the lagna in the birth chart must be 
observed for its placement in the annual chart. The house in which the birth Iagna falls in 
the annual chart gets activated. 
2. Varsha lagna and the birth chart: The house in the birth chart which becomes the lagna 
in the annual chart also gets activated. 
3 Dwijanma year: The year when the birth lagna recurs in the annual chart has a special 
significance. Such a year is called the Dwijanma year and is considered particularly 
adverse. It turns more malignant as: 

(a) The cusp of the annual chart Iagna falls within one degree of the cusp of the 
birth lagna; or 
(b) The birth nakshatra too recurs in the annual chart (i.e., the nakshatra of the 
Moon in the birth chart and the natal chart is identical); or 
(c) The Moon and Jupiter respectively occupy the 6th and the 8th houses in the 
annual chart. 

The malefic influence of the Dwijanma year wanes as: 
(a) The cusp of the annual ascendant is further removed from the cusp of the birth 
chart; or 
(b) The lagna lord, the Muntha lord and the lord of the year happen to be strong; 
or 
(c) Both the Moon and Jupiter are strong and well placed; or 
(d) The natural benefics occupy kendras and trikonas, and natural malefics occupy 
houses 3, 6 and I I. 

4.1mportance of the 6th and 8th houses: When the sign identical with the 6th or the 8th 
house of the birth chart becomes the ascendant in the annual chart, it proves inauspicious, 
and particularly adverse for health. 
S.Natal Iagna lord in the annual chart: A benefic position of the natal Iagna lord in the 
annual chart ensures a comfortable year. An adverse location indicates otherwise. 
6.Malefics in the birth chart: A malefic occupying a kendra in the birth chart, happening 
to be occupying the lagna in the annual chart causes adverse results. Benefics in such 
situations produce good results. 
7 .Income and loss: Malefics in the second house, particularly when the lagna happens to 
be a movable sign, lead to loss of money. A weak planet in the eleventh house causes loss 
of wealth. 



S.Progeny: Jupiter as lord of the year occupying the fifth or the eleventh house causes 
childbirth during the year. The sign occupied by Jupiter in the natal chart, happening to 
become the lagna in the annual chart, also promises childbirth under a favourable dasha 
in the birth chart. 

Strong lagna lord and the fifth lord together in the fifth house indicate childbirth. 
Retrograde Mars in the fifth house is adverse for progeny, 
9.111 health: Some combinations for ill health during a given year, besides those already 
mentioned, are: 

(a) A direct malefic in the twelfth house from the lagna and a retrograde malefic in 
the second house. 
(b) The sign occupied by Saturn in the birth chart happening to become the lagna 
of the annual chart, and under inimical aspect of Saturn. 
(c) Lagna lord of the annual chart having a direct malefic in its twelfth house and a 
retrograde one in its second house. 
(d) Placement of the lord ofthe year in the eighth house, in association with Mars. 
(e) A malefic in the birth lagna falling in the eighth house in the annual chart, 
(f) A combust lagna lord of the birth chart placed in the eighth house in the annual 
chart. 
(g) Afflicted Mars or Saturn in the tenth house. 

IO.Marriage: Involvement of the lagna lord with the seventh lord, or that of Venus with 
Mars, in appropriate Tajika yo gas indicate marriage if the same event is indicated also in 
the birth chart. Placement of a strong fifth lord in the seventh house of the annual chart 
also indicates similar results. 
ll.Profession: Placement of the Sun in the tenth house of the annual chart is a highly 
auspicious factor in relation to profession. lfthe Sun is strong, it leads to regaining of the 
lost status. A strong Sun in the eleventh house gives a promise for royal favours. 

Malefics in general produce benefic results when placed in the tenth house, 
particularly when they are strong and under benefic influence. 
12Relative importance of the birth chart and the annual chart: The birth chart always 
takes precedence over the annual chart. The annual chart acts as a very superior transit 
chart which holds sway over a given year of life of a native. It explains more clearly or 
vividly what the natal chart indicates, remaining always within the confines of the natal 
chart. 

For a more elaborate account of annual horoscopy, the reader is referred to the A 
Textbook of Varshaphaia by the author. 



... XXVI. .. 

Muhurta or the Astrology of Election 

Not by abstentionfrom work does a man achievefreedomfrom 
action; nor even by renunciation does he attain to perfection. 

Gita III/4. 

The word Muhurta means a moment of time, or a time duration of two Ghatis 
(forty-eight minutes). In astrology, the muhurta deals with picking up the most 
appropriate moment for accomplishment of a purpose, while avoiding the less 
appropriate moments. 



Importance of time 

All astrology is based on time. The disposition of the lagna and the planets at a 
given time determines all that pertains to a native's life. Just as individuals have a birth 
time, so also all work and actions have their times of birth. A horoscope cast for the 
moment when a work is commenced indicates the tum of events during the 
accomplishment of that work, very much like the natal horoscope indicating the various 
events taking place during the life of a native. Since we generally have control over the 
moment of commencing an action, it is but appropriate that we chose the most 
appropriate moment to do so. In this way, the difficulties that one might encounter in the 
fulfihnent of a job can be avoided or minimised. 

Muhurta thus is a practical application of the knowledge of astrology. In India, this 
aspect of astrology is so much ingrained in day to day life that even a lay and illiterate 
villager uses it in his varied pursuits of life like travel, marriage, building a house, 
shifting into a new house, sowing and reaping a harvest, digging of wells and ponds, 
naming or christening of a child, returning home, meeting or bidding farewell to a friend 
or a relative, and the like. The kings employed it in wars and conquests. The present day 
educated man employs this knowledge in selecting appropriate moments for joining or 
quitting a job, sending in job applications, filing of nominations for elections, taking oath 
of office, procurement of a vehicle, shifting into a new house, etc. People have lately 
used this knowledge in choosing the birth time of their child in case of a cesarean birth. 
Muhurta thus finds a wide use in day to day life in India. The slavish neo-scientist, with 
his imported learning and natural ignorance of the rich Vedic culture, gives the belief in 
this brilliant branch of practical astrology the name of superstition. 



Difficulty in choosing the best Muhurta. 

It must be appreciated that no given horoscope can be considered as perfect in all 
possible respects. The best of planetary dispositions available will have a flaw. Similarly, 
the best and the most auspicious moment selected for commencing an undertaking will 
not be perfect in all respects. 

The selection of an appropriate Muhurta aims at selecting the best moment 
available. The modern day man does not have enough time at his disposal. He may have 
to undertake a journey at short notice or to join a job within a stipulated period. Or a 
child in the womb, eager to come out, may only give a limited time frame within which 
to plan a cesarean. Under such circumstances, the moment that best suits one's purpose is 
to be chosen. 



The underlying principles 

Muhurta uses the same basic principles as are applicable to the predictive aspect of 
astrology. The stress is, however, shifted to certain specific areas which constitute the five 
limbs of the Panchanga or the Indian almanac. These five limbs, already hinted at 
elsewhere, are the Tithi, Vaara, Nakshatra, Yoga and Karana. The Panchanga is 
specifically suited to the Indian way of life where astrology finds its practical use. 

The importance of the Sun and the Moon in Vedic astrology cannot be 
overemphasised. The five limbs of the Panchanga depend on the disposition of these two 
luminaries only. The Muhurta also makes use of the lagna (or even the Navamsha) rising 
at the time of commencing an act. It can be individualised, for best results, when 
combined with Ashtakavarga worked out on the natal horoscope of an individual. 

Muhurta is a vast subject demanding a very thorough treatment which is beyond 
the scope of this work. Here it is proposed to present the very basic concepts of this 
branch of astrology. For detailed information, the reader is referred to the book on 
Muhurta by K.K. Joshi. 



Tithi or the Lunar Date 

Fifteen Tithis constitute the Shukla-paksha or the brighter half of the lunar cycle, 
while another fifteen constitute the Krishna-paksha or the darker half of the lunar cycle. 
These Tithis are numbered from 1 to 30; or they are numbered from 1 to 15 (from the 
Pratipada to the Poornima) for the Shukla-paksha, and 1 to 14 (Pratipada to Chaturdashi) 
and 30 (Amavasya) for the Krishna-paksha. 

Tithis are very important in Muhurta. All Hindu festivals depend upon the Tithis. 
Even the birthdays are celebrated according to the Tithis. 
Five sub-divisions of the Tit his 
The Tithis are sub-divided into five groups: 
(a)Nanda- Tithis 1, 6 and II. 
(b)Bhadra- Tithis 2, 7 and 12. 
(c)Jaya- Tithis 3, 8 and 13. 
(d )Rikta - Tithis 4, 9 and 14. 
(e)Poorna- Tithis 5, 10, 15 and 30. 

1n general, Tithis 1 to 5 of the Krishna-paksha and 10 to 15 of the Shukla-paksha 
are favourable. Tithis 5 to 10 of both the pakshas are average. Tithis 10 to 15 (i.e., 10 to 
14, and 30) of the Krishna-paksha and 1 to 5 of the Shukla-paksha are unfavourable. 
This is because the Moon is relatively weak for five days on either side of the Amavasya 
(New Moon) due to its proximity to the Sun. Similarly, it is strong for five days on either 
side of the Poomima (Full Moon). 
Prescribed acts for various Tithis: 
I. Pratipada (Tithi 1): Writing, drawing, agriculture, extraction of liquor, felling trees, 
sculpting, bed or seat. Avoid auspicious events like marriage, etc. 
2. Dwiteeya (Tithi 2): Marriage, travel, royal duties, house building, acquisition of 
ornaments. 
3. Triteeya (Tithi 3): Sculpting, transactions related to cattle, elephants, etc., travel 
through water, feeding the infant, entering a new house, and other auspicious pursuits 
mentioned under the 'Dwiteeya' above. 
4. Chaturthi, Navami and Chaturdashi (Tithis 4, 9 and 14; the Rikta group): Cruel deeds, 
study of mantras, confinement, use of fire, poison and weapons, causing injury or death, 
killing of an opponent. A void all auspicious pursuits. 
5. Panchami (Tithi 5): Riding, marriage, propitiation of planets, all auspicious pursuits. 
Avoid lending money. 
6. Shashthi (Tithi 6): Buying and selling, transactions of cattle and land, war-related 
pursuits, ornaments and garments, house building. 
7. Saptami (Tithi 7): Travel, vehicle, service to the king, marriage, house building. 



8. Ashtami (Tithi 8): War-related pursuits, house building, sculpting, farming and 
agriculture, writing, digging, work related with water, ornaments. 
9. Dashami (Tithi 10): Worship in a temple, journey, marriage and all the pursuits 
mentioned under Tithis 2,3 ,5 and 7. 
10. Ekadashi (Tithi II): Religious pursuits, festivals, house building, sculpting, 
agriculture, marriage, dancing, war-related pursuits. 
II. Dwadashi (Tithi 12): All Chara and Sthira (i.e., change-oriented and fixity-oriented) 
pursuits, religious and auspicious deeds. 
12. Trayodashi (Tithi 13): Marriage, rituals related to fire, travel, all auspicious deeds. 
13. Poornima (Tithi 15; Full Moon): Sacrificial rituals ('yajnas'), war-related pursuits, 
house building, marriage, sculpting, ornaments. 
14. Amavasya (Tithi 30; New Moon): Rituals related to the Pitras (the Manes). 
Prescribed acts for sub-divisions ofTithis 

(a) Nanda: Dance, music, agriculture, festivals, house building, garments, 
ornaments, sculpting. 
(b) Bhadra: Marriage, the sacred thread ceremony, travel, ornaments, sculpting, 
artistic pursuits, vehicles. 
(c) Jaya: War-related pursuits, house building, medication, agriculture, work related 
to weapons, etc. 
(d) Rikta: Already mentioned above. 
(e) Poorna: The sacred thread ceremony, marriage, travel, propitiation of planets, 
sitting on the royal throne. 



Vaara or the Week Dav 

The seven days of the week have the seven Grahas from the Sun to Saturn as their 
lords. Specific jobs are prescribed for the seven days. 
(a)Sunday: Coronation, festivities, fire-related rituals, commencing medical treatment, 
making weapons, travelling, cattle rearing, fighting, work related with wood, wool, gold, 
copper, etc. 
(b)Monday: Work related with silver, pearls, ornaments and precious stones, sexual 
indulgence, planting trees, water related deeds, agricultural pursuits, food and eatables, 
flowers, song and music, garments, milk and curd, yajnas, etc. 
(c)Tuesday: Deeds of cruelty, theft, killing, work related with fire, weapons and poisons, 
injury, surgery, arrogance, imprisonment, coral, treasure, etc. 
(d)Wednesday: Dance, sculpting, music, writing, compilation, learning, marriage, 
warfare, etc. 
(e)Thursday: Religious pursuits, nutntwn, auspiCIOUS deeds, house building, acquiring 
vehicles, travel, medication, wearing ornaments, trees, vines, etc. 
(f)Friday: Dance, music, sexual indulgence, decoration, land deals, constructing or 
decorating a bed, garments, shopping, festivals, etc. 
(g)Saturday: House building, shifting into a new house, spiritual initiation, weapons, 
poisons, hoarding, sinful acts, servility, work which has long lasting effect, etc. 
UseoftheHora 

Whatever has been prescribed for a particular day can also be pursued during the 
Hora relevant to the lord of that day. 
Travel and Week day 
Travel must be avoided in certain directions on certain days. This is shown below: 
Direction to be Week day(s) 
avoided 
!.East Monday, Saturday 
2.South Thursday 
3. West Friday, Sunday 
4.North Tuesday, Wednesday 



Tit hi-Vaara combinations 

A combination of Tithis and Vaaras (weekdays) gives rise to the following types of 
Tithis. 
(a)Siddha Tithis: Nanda (I, 6, 11) on Friday; Bhadra (2, 7, 12) on Wednesday; Jaya (3, 
8, 13) on Tuesday; Rikta (4, 9, 14) on Saturday; and Poorna (5, 10, 15) on Thursday are 
auspicious and may be considered when other blemishes exist in the elected moment. 
(b)Dagdha Tithi: Nanda on Sunday, Bhadra on Monday, Nanda on Tuesday, Jaya on 
Wednesday, Rikta on Thursday, Bhadra on Friday, and Poorna on Saturday are 
inauspicious. 
(c)Krakacha Tithi (or Vaara-Dagdha): A combination ofTithi and Vaara totalling to 13 is 
considered inauspicious. Thus, Sunday (the first day) and Dwadashi (the 12th Tithi), 
when co-existing, are bad. Similarly Monday (the 2nd day) and Ekadashi (the 11th Tithi) 
are bad. Equally so, Tuesday and the lOth, Wednesday and the 9th, Thursday and the 
8th, Friday and the 7th, and Saturday and the 6th, when coinciding are inauspicious. 



Nakshatras or the Constellations 

The twenty-seven nakshatras constitute another important limb of the Panchanga which is 
essential in electional astrology. The various functions or aspects appropriate to these 
Nakshatras are mentioned below. 
I. Ashwini: Garments, the sacred thread, shaving, riding, agriculture, studying, dealings 
with women. 
2. Bharani: Digging a well or a pond, poisons, weapons, entering a cave, mathematics, 
cruel deeds. 
3. Krittika: Fire-related pursuits, weapons, war, medication, truce, deeds of cruelty. 
4. Rohini: All stable deeds (Sthira-karma), marriage, clothes, ornaments, horses and 
elephants, house building. 
5. Mrigashira: House building, travel, elephants, horses, camels, marriage, ornaments. 
6. Ardra: Flag, war, fort, weaponry, skill in arms, truce, an archway. 
7. Punarvasu: House building, shaving, dealing with weapons, ornaments, exit, riding. 
8. Pushya: A special Nakshatra which is suitable for all auspicious deeds other than 
marriage. 
9. Ashlesha: Gambling, base acts, lies, quarrels, medication, business. 
10. Magha: Agriculture, business, cattle, fighting, hoarding, singing, dancing. 
II. The three Poorvas (Poorvaphalguni, P. Ashadha and P. Bhadrapad; Nakshatras II, 
20, and 25): Quarrels, poisons, weapons, fire, fighting, cruel deeds, sale of meat. 
12. The three Uttaras (Uttara-phalguni, U. Ashadha, U. Bhadra-pad; Nakshatras 12, 21 
and 26): Coronation, house building, marriage, the sacred thread, entry. 
13. Hasta: Marriage, riding, house building, garments, ornaments, shaving, coronation. 
14. Chitraa: Entry, clothes, the sacred thread, house building, ornaments 
15. Swati: Marriage, clothes, ornaments, disagreement, agriculture, shaving, entry, the 
sacred thread ceremony. 
16. Vishakha: Clothes, ornaments, hoarding, song, dance, sculpting, writing. 
17. Anuradha: Entry, marriage, garments, ornaments, house building, truce, discord, 
auspicious deeds. 
18. Jyeshtha: Shaving, weapons, business, cattle, water, music, sculpting, writing. 
19. Moola: Marriage, agriculture, business, deeds of cruelty, fighting, medication, dance, 
sculpting, weapons, writing. 
20. Shravana (Nakshatra 22): Shaving, riding, the sacred thread ceremony, medication, 
travel, entry into a house, repair of an old house. 
21. Dhanishtha (Nakshatra 23): The sacred thread ceremony, medication, house building, 



entry into a new house, ornaments, riding. 
22. Shatabhisha (Nakshatra 24): Entry into a new house, shaving, medication, riding, 
house building. 
23. Revati (Nakshatra 27): Marriage, ornaments, garments, riding, entry, shaving, 
medication. 



Categories of N akshatras 

The Nakshatras can be put under several categories as under: 
l.Dhruva(Sthira) or fixed: Rohini, the three Uttaras (Nakshatras 4, 12,21, 26), as well as 
Sunday. 
These are suitable for such deeds as sowing seeds, pursuit of peace, and deeds prescribed 
under the 'Mridu', vide infra. The intention here is to achieve a lasting result. 
2.Chara (chala) or movable: Punarvasu, Swati, Shravana, Dhanishtha, Satabhisha 
(Nakshatras 7, 15, 22, 23, 24) and Monday. 
These are suitable for riding, travel, and deeds prescribed under the 'Laghu', vide infra. 
3.Krura (Ugra) or cruel: Bharani, Magha, the three Poorvas (Naskshatras 2, 10, II, 20, 
25), and Tuesday. 
Suitable for killing, dealing with weapons, poison, fire related pursuits, cruelty, and deeds 
prescribed under the 'Teekshna', vide infra. 
4.Mishra or ordinary: Krittika, Vishakha (Nakshatras 3 and 16), and Wednesday. 
Suitable for rituals of fire, pursuits of mixed nature, as well as deeds prescribed under the 
'Krura', vide supra. 
5.Kshipra (Laghu) or agile: Ashwini, Pushya, Hasta, Abhijit (nakshatras I ,8, 13 and 22; 
when Abhijit is considered, the total number ofnakshatras goes up to 28), and Thursday. 
Pursuits such as shopping, , sexual act, learning of scriptures, ornaments, sculpting, 
dance, artistic pursuits, and prescriptions for the 'Chara', vide supra. 
6.Mridu (Maitra) or amiable: Mrigashira, Chitraa, Anuradha, Revati (Nakshatras 5, 14, 17 
and 27), and Friday. 
Suitable for singing, garments, sexual indulgence, friendly acts, ornaments and pursuits 
prescribed under the 'Dhruva', vide supra. 
7.Teekshna (Damna) or aggressive: Ardra, Ashlesha, Jyeshtha, Moola (nakshatras 6, 9, 
18 and 19), and Saturday. 
Suitable for magic, killing, aggression, taming of animals, and deeds prescribed under the 
'Krura', vide supra. 



Directions of Nakshatras 

Nakshatras have the following three categories depending upon the direction they face. 
l.Adho-mukha (facing downwards): Bharani, Krittika, Ashlesha, Magha, Moola, 
Vishakha and the three Poorvas (i.e., Ashlesha, Moola, 'Krura' and 'Mishra' Nakshatras). 
Suitable for such acts as digging, work on the ground, fighting, and cruel deeds. 
2.Urdhva-mukha (facing upwards): Rohini, Ardra, Pushya, Shravana, Dhanishtha, 
Shatabhisha and the three Uttaras (i.e., Ardra, Pushya, Shravana, Dhanishtha, Shatabhisha 
and the 'Dhruva' Nakshatras). 
Suitable for coronation, high rise buildings, flag hoisting, riding. 
3.Tiryang-mukha (facing forwards): Ashwini, Mrigashira, Punarvasu, Hasta, Chitra, 
Swati, Anuradha, Jyeshtha and Revati (i.e., Ashwini, Punarvasu, Hasta, Swati, Jyeshtha, 
and the 'Mridu' Nakshatras). 
Suitable for travel, ploughing, planting trees, vehicles, business, dealing in cattle. 



The Panchaka. 

This is a special category of Nakshatras extending from the second half of 
Dhanishtha to the end of Revati. This coincides with the position of the Moon in the signs 
Kumbha and Meena. During the Panchaka, such pursuits as cremating the dead, travel to 
the south, making of cots, accumulation of grass and wood, and thatching a roof are 
prohibited. 



Some important combinations involving Nakshatras 

Specific nakshatras falling on specific days give rise to certain combinations some of 
which are mentioned below. 
I.Siddha Yoga: Moola on Sunday, Shravana on Monday, U. Bhadrapada on Tuesday, 
Krittika on Wednesday, Punarvasu on Thursday, P. Phalguni on Friday and Swati on 
Saturday produce this. This combination is good for all pursuits. 
2.Amrita Siddhi Yoga: Hasta, Shravana, Ashwini, Anuradha, Pushya, Revati, and Rohini 
falling each on the seven days starting from Sunday give rise to this yoga. It ensures 
accomplishments. 
3.Sarvartha Siddhi Yoga: Sunday coinciding with Ashwini, Pushya, Hasta, Moola and the 
three Uttaras; Monday coinciding with Rohini, Mrigashira, Pushya, Anuradha and 
Shravana; Tuesday coinciding with Ashwini, Krittika, Ashlesha and U. Bhadrapada; 
Wednesday coinciding with Krittika, Rohini, Mrigashira, Hasta and Anuradha; Thursday 
coinciding with Ashwini, Punarvasu, Pushya, Anuradha and Revati; Friday coinciding 
with Ashwini, Punarvasu, Anuradha, Shravana and Revati; Saturday coinciding with 
Rohini, Swati and Shravana. 
These combinations are good for all pursuits. 
4.Mrityu Yoga: Anuradha, U. Ashadha, Shatabhisha, Ashwini, Mrigashira, Ashlesha and 
Hasta each falling respectively on seven days from Sunday onwards produce this yoga. It 
is an adverse combination, and must be particularly avoided in travel. 



The Taara 

Count from the birth nakshatra of a native to the nakshatra falling on a particular 
day. Divide by nine. The result is (I) Janma, (2) Sampata, (3) Vipat, (4) Kshema, (5) 
Pratyari, (6) Sadhaka, (7) Vadha, (8) Maitra, and (9) Ati-maitra, respectively depending 
on the remainder being one to nine. 

Taaras I, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 9 are auspicious; 3, 5 and 7 are adverse. Taara must be 
considered during the Krishna-paksha, and the Moon during the Shukla-paksha. 



The Yogas 

The 27 yo gas are either (a) auspicious, when all good undertakings are permitted, or (b) 
inauspicious, when all important pursuits must be avoided. 
Vyatipaata and Vaidhriti (yogas 17 and 27) must be completely avoided. 
Of Parigha yoga (yoga 19), the first half is to be avoided in all pursuits. 
Of Vishkumbha and Vajra (yo gas I and 15), avoid the beginning three Ghatis (I hour 
and 12 minutes). 
Of Ati-Ganda and Ganda (yo gas 6 and 10), avoid the first six Ghatis (2 hours and 24 
minutes). 



THEKARANAS 

Bhadra 
The Vishti Karana is called as Bhadra. This coincides with: 
(a)The first half of the Tithis 8 and 15 of the Shukla-paksha. 
(b)The second half of the Tithis 4 and II of the Shukla-paksha. 
(c)The first half of the Tithis 7 aand 14 of the Krishna-paksha. 
(d)The second halfofthe Tithis 3 and 10 ofthe Krishna-paksha. 
Bhadra must be generally avoided in all auspicious pursuits. 
The Sthira Karanas 
The four sthira or fixed Karanas have their specific application. 
(a)Kimstughna: Suited for all auspicious deeds. 
(b)Shakuni: For medication and propitiation of planets. 
(c)Chatushpada: For all pursuits pertaining to cow, Brahmin, king and father. 
(d )Naga: For benign pursuits, study, battle. 
The Lagna 

In all Muhurta, the lagna is extremely important. One should ensure an appropriate 
lagna for an appropriate objective. In general, the kendras and trikonas must be occupied 
by benefics, while the malefics should occupy houses 3, 6, and II. Specific pursuits 
appropriate to different Iagnas are briefly hinted at below. 
l.Mesha: Riding, truce, discord, treasure, ornaments, battle. 
2. Vrisha: Auspicious deeds, work of a lasting nature, entry into a new house, agriculture, 
cattle, business. 
3.Mithuna: Art, science, learning, accomplishment, battle, marriage, seeking refuge, 
coronation, purchase and sale of elephants. 
4.Karka: Pond, lake, well, canal, bridge, nutrition, writing. 
5.Simba: Business, food grains, shop, agriculture, courageous acts, battle, royal pursuits. 
6.Kanya: Learning, sculpting, medicine, ornament, auspicious deeds. 
7.Tula: Agriculture, business, vehicle, marriage, cattle, utensils. 
8. Vrischika: Pursuits of a lasting nature, service to the king, coronation, theft. 
9.Dhanu: Restraint, marriage, sculpting, weapons, acts of a fixed nature 
I O.Makara: Bridges, canals, weapons, exit, cattle, servility. 
II .Kumbha: Agriculture, trade, sculpting, work related to water, sea travel, weapons. 



12.Meena: Marriage, coronation, entry, ornaments, water reservoir. 
Note: While considering a lagna, an appropriate Navamsha lagna must also be 
considered. 



GANDANTA 

Gandanta is a junctional area. 1t is considered adverse. A child born in Gandanta is 
likely to undergo physical suffering. Marriage or other auspicious acts, performed during 
Gandanta are likely to end in disaster. The Gandanta may be of the following types: 
(a)Nakshatra Gandanta: Nakshatras of Ketu and Mercury (Ashwini, Ashlesha, Magha, 
Jyeshtha, Moola and Revati) constitute the Nakshatra gandanta. 
(b)Lagna Gandanta: The last half Ghati (12minutes) of Karka, Vrischika and Meena 
lagnas, and the first half a Ghati of Mesha, Simha and Dhanu lagnas constitute the lagna 
gandanta. 
(c)Tithi Gandanta: The last one Ghati (24 minutes) of the Poorna (Tithis 5, 10, 15/30) 
and the first one Ghati of the Nanda (Tithis 1 ,6, 11) constitute the Tithi gandanta. 



The Abhiiita Muhurta 

One Ghati (24 minutes) on either side of the local noon (or local midnight!) is 
called as the Abhijita muhurta. This time is favourable for beginning any work, and must 
be considered when an appropriate Muhurta is not available. 



Ashtakavan!a in Muhurta 

For individualised results, a native's Ashtakavarga (see Chapter XXX) may be 
considered for selecting a suitable Muhurta. A simple method of this is to decide on the 
relevant house, in the horoscope of the native, to which the required pursuit belongs. 
Choose a lagna from which the relevant house is strong in Sarvashtakavarga. For 
example, one wants to purchase a vehicle, which is to be seen from the fourth house. 
Choose a lagna from which the fourth house has the maximum benefic points in the 
Sarvashtakavarga. Similarly choose a strong fifth house for education, seventh house for 
partnership, tenth house for profession, etc. 

Note:It will be appreciated that the classical Muhurta is particularly applicable to the 
ancient Indian way of life. Suitable modifications are essential if the Muhurta has to be 
applied in modern context. 



... XXVII ... 

Matching of Charts: The Traditional Method 

The great brahma (the Maya with the three qualitites ojSattva, 
Rajas and Tamas) is My womb; in that I establish the seed. From 
that results the birth of all beings, 0' Bharata (Arjuna). 

Gita XIV-3. 

Marriage has been considered a very sacred duty of human beings in India. It 
involves an intimate link between two different individuals. Generally in India, amongst 
the traditional people, the two individuals involved in the act of marriage are strangers to 
each other, their union often having been arranged by their parents. There has been some 
change lately, particularly amongst the urban populace, so that the marrying couple meet, 
or often select, each other before being tied in wedlock. 

The traditional Indian marriage being between two strangers, the ancient seers 
devised astrological methods to choose the right partner. This involves a process of 
matching of the horoscopes of the prospective bride and groom before getting them 
united in wedlock. The methods of horoscopic matching involve different factors which 
aim to ensure a physical as well as a mental matching of the prospective partners, keeping 
in view the social system of those times. While the traditional techniques need to be 
applied in a modified manner in the changed social ambience of today, they are still valid 
in a general sense. It will be no exaggeration to state that, even today, more than ninety 
percent of Hindus have their horoscopes matched before getting married. In fact, the 
natal astrology in ancient India was primarily directed at marriage, progeny and Muhurta. 



Personal Selection 

Even in the traditional India of ancient times, couples have fallen in love and 
united in wedlock. The scriptures deem that a relationship based on true mutual love 
needs no further matching ofhoroscopic charts of the couple. 



The Blemish of Mars 

The disposition of Mars in a chart is considered to be of special significance while 
considering a marital relationship. The location ofMars in the houses I, 4, 7, 8 and 12 is 
labelled as 'Man gala Dosha' or the blemish of Mars. If Mars is located in any of these 
houses, in the chart of the girl, it is said to lead to widowhood by causing death of her 
husband. Similar disposition of Mars in the chart of the boy can cause death of his wife. 
It is said that such disposition of Mars in a horoscope must be considered both from the 
lagna as well as the Moon. When the horoscopes of the bride and the groom both are free 
from Man gala Dosha, when considered both from the lagna and the Moon, the situation 
is favourable and needs further study. 

The blemish ofMars may be considered nullified in the following circumstances: 
(a)When the blemish exists in the horoscopes ofboth the boy and the girl. 
(b )When one chart has the blemish of Mars while the other chart shows its neutralisation 
by the placement of another malefic (Sun, Saturn, Rahu or Ketu) in one of the houses 
mentioned above. 

From the above it is apparent that any malefic located in the houses I, 4, 7, 8 or 12 
from the lagna as well as the Moon in a given chart is not good for marital harmony 
unless equally matched by a similar disposition of malefics in the chart of the spouse. 
Preferably, the number of malefics influencing these houses must also be matched. 
Sometimes, remedial measures are prescribed to neutralise the Mangala Dosha. 



Matching the Traditional Way 

Eight different 'Kootas' (the Ashtakoota!) or 'factors of matching' are taken into 
consideration while matching the charts of the prospective bride and bridegroom. These 
are based on the sign and the nakshatra of the natal Moon in the charts of the couple. 

These eight factors, which are successively stronger in effect and considered to be 
possessive of successively increasing 'gunas' or benefic qualities, are as follows: 
1. Varna 
2. Vashya 

3. Taara 
4. Yoni 
5. Graha-maitri 
6. Gana 
7. Bhakoota 
8. Naadi 

With Varna having one guna and the successive Kootas possessing the number of 
gunas progressively increasing by one until Naadi possesses eight gunas, a maximum of 
thirty-six gunas are possible. When a horoscopic pair shows anything from 24 to 36 
gunas, it is considered an excellent match. When the match shows 12 to 24 gunas, it is 
considered only mediocre; less than 12 is adverse and generally not recommended for 
marriage. Very strict adherence to these rules may not be necessary when the planetary 
disposition in both charts is otherwise favourable. 

1. Varna 

The twelve Moon signs, in four groups of three each, indicate the four castes as follows: 
(i) Brahmins (the literate!): signs 4, 8, 12 

(ii) Kshatriyas (the warriors!): signs I, 5, 9 
(iii) Vaishyas (the traders!): signs 2, 6, 10 
(iv) Shudras (the unskilled!): signs 3,7, II 

The first Varna (Brahmin) is the superior most and the subsequent ones are inferior 
in that order so that the Shudra is the inferior most. The Varna of the bridegroom should 
be the same as that of the bride, or superior to that of the bride. This earns the couple one 
guna or benefic point. This Koota ensures that the woman may only be raised higher in 
status. 



Table A'A'VIl-1 : Gunas from matching of Varna 

~Qrooml 
13ridc ~ Brahmin Kshatriya Vaishya Shudra 

Brahmin 1 0 0 0 
Kshatriya 1 1 0 0 
Vaishya 1 1 1 0 
Shudra 1 1 1 1 

2. Vashya 
The word 'Vashya' means 'controllable'. The Moon signs of the bride and the 

bridegroom must fall in the same group, to earn two benefic points; or the bride's sign 
should be in the groom's 'Vashya' for the same benefic score. The signs are classified as 
follows: 
(i)Chatushpada (quadruped): Mesha, Vrisha, second half of Dhanu, first half of Makara. 
(ii)Manava/Nara (biped) Mithuna, Kanya, Tula, first half of Dhanu, Kumbha. 
(iii)Jalachara (aquatic): Karka, Meena, second half of Makara. 
(iv)Vanachara (wild): Simha (not included amongst the quadrupeds above). 
(v)Keeta (insect): Vrishchika. (Karka has been included under Jalachara, vide supra). 

All signs except Vrishchika (the Keeta) are Vashya for Simha (the Vanachara sign). 
Except Simha, all signs are Vashya for Manava (the biped signs). The Jalachara serves as 
food for Manava as does Chatushpada for Vanachara, and these combinations are not 
favoured. The following table (Table XXVII-2) shows the points gained from Vashya 
matching ofthe couple's charts. 



T.1blc XXVll-2: Gunas from Vashya matching 

~ Chatush- Manava Jalachara Vanachara Kccta 
. pada 

Chalushpada 2 1 I 1 'h 1 
Manava 1 2 I 'h 0 1 
Jalachara 1 'h 2 1 1 
Vanachara 0 0 0 2 0 
Kccta 1 1 1 0 2 

3. Taara 
Count from the bride's nakshatra to the groom's (both inclusive) and divide by 

nine. A remainder of 3, 5 or 7 is considered malefic and yields '0' gunas. Else, it is 
benefic and merits 1 Y, points. Similarly count from the groom's nakshatra to the bride's 
and divide by nine. A remainder of 3, 5 or 7 is again malefic ('0' gunas), while anything 
else is benefic and merits i 14 points. A fully benefic Taara (favourable countings in both 
cases) thus yields three benefic points. Table XXVII-3 gives the benefic points yielded by 
Taara in a couple's charts depending upon the remainder obtained after dividing by nine 
the number obtained by (i) counting the nakshatras from the groom's nakshatra to the 
bride's (horizontal), and (ii) from the bride's to the groom's (vertical). 



Table .X.X.'VII-3: Gunas from Taara 
Remainder, from Groom's nakshatra 

I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
I 3 3 111.! 3 )If! 3 I 111.! 3 
2 IJt--3-t-1' t:-!-t--3-l-1-'1!- 31-11 1.!-.-t--_-)-t---:-i) 

3 1'12 1'12 0 1'12 0 Ph 0 1'11 1'12 
4 3 3 ]'/] 3 l'h 3 ]'/] 3 3 
5 I H2 l'h 0 t'h 0 llh I 0 Ph llh 

1-6-+~-3-r-3-lf-JI-!h.-1--.-3- t·-1-!:-1 -3- ·~-Jih-. -i--3-t--_,~,., 
1

i~  t----i---r--;---r--_,---i---;---r---t---i 
7 t'h tY.! o 1'h o 1'h 1 o H2 H2 

·~ 8 3 3 1' h 3 111! 3 1'1 2 3 .")'  
Ill 
~ 9 3 3 1'1! 3 1'1! J Ph. 

4. Yoni 
The different nakshatras are said to possess the 'Yonis' of different animals. The 

birth nakshatras of the bride and the groom should indicate the Yo nis of animals that are 
not mutually hostile. If they indicate the same Yoni or a neutral Yoni, it is considered 
desirable. Fourteen categories of Yonis, each indicated by two nakshatras, are described. 
For this purpose, the Abhijit nakshatra (extending from 6°40'00" to 10°53'20" in the 
Makara rashi) is also to be considered, raising the total number of nakshatras to twenty-
eight. 
The nakshatra pairs, their relevant Yonis and the intensely inimical Yoni are indicated 
below: 



Nakshatras and Yonis 

Sak5haJras Yoni Intense Enem.v 

1_-\.shwlni, Sh;,tabhishaj Ashwa (Horse) :\.L:lhisha (Buffalo) 
2.Bharani, Revati Gaja (Elephant) Simha (Llon) 

3.Krillik:l, Pushya Mesha (R:tm) Vanara (Monkey) 
-' .Roh ini, Mrigashira Sarpa (Serpent) ~akul:t (.\.L:lngoose) 
5--\rdra, Moola Shwana (Dog) Mriga (Deer) 
6.Puu:~n':lsu, Asblcsha Marjara (Cat) Mushaka (Rat) 
7 .:\hgba. P. Phalguni Mushaka (Rat) Marjara (Cat) 
S.t:. Phalguni, U. Bhadrapada Gau (Cow) Vyaghra (Tiger) 

9Jlasta, Swati ::\.L:lhlsh:t (Buffalo) Ashwa (Horse) 

IO.Chitra. Vishakha Y~·aghra (Tiger) Gau (Cow) 

11 .. -\nuradhJ, Jyeshtha Mriga (Deer) Shwana (Dog) 

12.P. As:~dh:t, Shravana Y:tn:tra (Monkey) Mesha {R:Im) 

13.t:.AS:Idha, Abhijit ~:~kula (.\Iongoose) Sarpa (Sa-pent) 
14.Dhanishtha, P. Bhadrapada Simha (Lion) Gaja (Elephant) 

When the groom and the bride belong to the same Yoni, they earn 4 points. If they 
belong to the intensely inimical Yonis, they get no points. In case of mutually friendly 
Yonis, they get 3 points, for neutral Yonis 2 points, and for simply inimical Yonis only I 
point. Table XXVII -4 indicates the gun as earned by the couple on the basis of their 
Yonis. 



Table X~'VII- 4: Gun as from Yoni-matching 

-':"': - '!"! 
... 

= ... --
~~ z~  = 
 -· (J) 

i\shwa 4 2 2 1 3 2 0 2 2 
Ga,ia 2 4 2 2 ... 

.) 2 3 1 3 2 2 0 
, 

Mc~ha 313 4 2 2 3 213 .) 1 3 0 2 1 
1-Sa-r-p;-~- -i-2-j 2 j2t-4-l-2-i--1-l--1 j2 2 2 2 

Shwana 2 2 2 2 4 I I2220222 
4 () 13 2 3 2 2 2 

M ushak;l 3 I 2 2 3 2 3 2 1 2 
Gau 2 3 3 2 2 , 

.) 3 4 3 0 3 2 2 I 

Mahisha , 
0 .) 2 2 ,")  .") .".)'  4 1 .")'  2 2 1 

1 2 2 2 4 1 2 2 
i\·1 riga 3 2 0 .")' ... 

 .) 1 4 2 2 
Vanara 2 2 012 2 22 2 22 4 2 2 
Nakula 
Simha 1 0 1 2 2 2 2 I 1 3 1 2 2 4 

5. Graha-maitri 
This is based on mutual inclination of the lords of the Moon signs of the 

bridegroom and the bride. When the two lords are friends or are the same, full 5 points 
are granted. When the lord of the Moon sign of the one is friendly towards the other 
while the other's lord is neutral, 4 points are given. When both rashi lords are neutral to 
each other, 3 points are given. When one is friendly to the other and the other is inimical 
to it, only 1 point is allotted. Half a point is given where one planet is neutral to the other 
while the other is inimical. No gunas are earned if both the Moon-sign lords are mutually 
inimical. See Table XXVII-5 for Graha-maitri gunas. 



T:1blc XA'VII-5 Gunas from Graha-maitri 

Moon-sign lord of the Groom 
" Sun Moon Mars Mer Jup Ven Sat 

::2 
:::.:...  Sun 5 5 5 4 5 0 0 
_g Moon 5 5 4 1 4 14 Vi 
'--
0 i'vl:m 5 4 5 14 5 3 14 

"E 
"-t: Mer 4 I 1 14 5 14 5 4 
Eo 

'Vi Jupiter 5 4 5 14 5 14 ·"'  
I 
e Venus 0 I 14 !J 5 14 5 5 
0 

..!l 
~ Saturn 0 14 14 4 .">  5 5 

6. Gana 
The twenty-seven nakshatras are divided into three categories of nine nakshatras 

each. Each category of nine nakshatras indicates one of the three Ganas, viz., Deva-gana, 
Manushya-gana and Rakshasa-gana. The nakshatras indicating these Ganas are as follows: 
(a)Deva Gana: Ashwini, Mrigashira, Punarvasu, Pushya, Hasta, Swati, Anuradha, 
Shravana, Revati. 
(b)Manushya-gana: Bharani, Rohini, Ardra, the three Purvas (P. Phalguni, P. Asadha, P. 
Bhadrapada), the three Uttaras (U. Phalguni, U. Asadha, U. Bhadrapada). 
(c)Rakshasa-gana: Krittika, Ashlesha, Magha, Chitra, Vishakha, Jyeshtha, Moola, 
Dhanishtha, Shatabhishaj . 

The benefic points earned by the couple depending upon their Gana based on their 
Moon's nakshatras are indicated in Table XXVII-6. 

TublcXXVII-6: Gunas earned from Gana matching 

Brid~room Deva Manushva Rakshasa 
" 

Deva 6 5 1 
Manushya 6 6 0 
Rakshasa 0 0 6 

7. Bhakoota 
Here, the mutual disposition of the natal Moon signs of the couple is considered. 

When the Moon signs of the couple happen to fall mutually in positions 2/12, 6/8 or 5/9, 



no gunas are earned. Under other situations, seven points are allotted. Table XXVII-7 
indicates the Bhakoota-gunas for various combinations of the Moon signs of the couple. 

TahJeXXVII-7: Bhakoota Gunas 
Bridegroom 

Rashis 
•1  

• 1 2 J 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
1 7 0 7 7 0 0 7 0 0 7 7 0 

... 
-2 0 7 0 7 0 0 7 0 0 ... 
- I I 7 

3 -7- 0 7 0 7 7 0 0 7 0 0 7 
4 7 7 0 7 0 7 ... 

I 0 0 7 0 0 

, 5 0 7 7 0 7 0 ... 
. I 7 0 0 7 0 

Ql 

·.: 6 0 0 7 7 0 7 0 I 7 0 0 7 

= 7 7 0 0 7 7 0 ... 0 7 ... 
I I 0 0 

8 0 ... 
I 0 0 7 7 0 -I 0 7 i 0 

9 0 0 7 0 0 7 7 0 7 0 7 7 
10 7 0 0 7 0 0 7 7 0 7 0 7 
11 7 7 0 0 7 0 0 7 7 0 7 0 
12 0 7 7 0 0 7 0 0 7 7 0 7 

While considering Bhakoota gunas, a few points need to be taken note of. These are as 
follows: 
(a)6/8 position: The sixth rashi from an odd sign and the eighth from an even sign form 
malefic mutual 6/8 positions since the lords of such signs are mutually hostile. On the 
other hand, the sixth rashi from an even sign and the eighth from an odd sign form 
favourable mutual 6/8 positions since the lords of such signs are mutually not hostile but 
friendly. A favourable 6/8 disposition of the Moon signs of the couple is not too bad. 
(b )An adverse 6/8 position is supposed to lead to death of a marital partner. A mutual 
2112 position of the Moon signs of the couple leads to penury while a mutual 5/9 
disposition causes childlessness. 
(c)When the two marital partners have the same Moon sign in their natal charts, it in 
considered favourable provided that the nakshatras of the two Moons are different. 
(d )When the rashi lords of the two Moons in mutual 2/12 positions are friendly, the 
blemish of the 2112 disposition is greatly diminished. It is further desirable to have the 
bride's Moon sign identical with the 12th house of the groom's Moon instead of vice 
versa. 
8. Naadi 
The twenty-seven nakshatras fall into three Naadis as follows: 



(a)Adya: Ashwini, Ardra, Punarvasu, Uttara Phalguni, Hasta, Jyeshtha Moola, 
Shatabhishaj, P. Bhadrapada. 
(b)Madhya: Bharani, Marigashira, Pushya, Purva Phalguni, Chitra, Anuradha, P. Asadha, 
Dhanishtha, U. Bhadrapada. 
(c)Antya: Krittika, Rohini, Ashlesha, Magha, Swati, Vishakha, U. Asadha, Shravana, 
Revati 
The Nakshatras of the groom and the bride should not fall in the same Naadi. The gunas 
are considered as shown in Table XXVll-8. 

TablcXA'VlJ-S: Naadi-gunas 

Brid~room Adya Madhya Antya 
Adva 0 8 8 
lVI adhva 8 0 8 

' 
Antya 8 8 0 

The following points need consideration while judging the Naadi-gunas: 
(a)When both the bride and the groom have the same Rashi but different nakshatras, the 
blemish of the same Naadi does not apply. 
(b )When both the bride and the groom have the same nakshatra but different rashis, 
again the blemish of the Naadi does not apply. 
(c)When both the bride and the groom fall in the Adya Naadi, the groom suffers. When 
they both have Antya Naadi, the bride suffers. When both have Madhya Naadi, both 
bride as well as groom suffer adverse effects, including death. 
The process of chart matching in respect of a couple, considering the eight Kootas or 
gunas, is being shown here (Charts XXVII-I and 2). The nakshatra of the male is Moola 
(19th nakshatra) and that of the female is Uttara Bhadrapada (26th nakshatra). Their 
rashis are Dhanu and Meena respectively. 



v Sun 
L;tgntt 1\lt~rcury Vcnu~ 

Kcru 

~hrs Chart XX'VII-1 
Uridcgroom 

l\hy 27, 1956 Ju pircr 

l\ loon Sarllrn 
T54' lbhu 

Sun l\lcr 
Kctu Venus l\ Ltrs 
~h~m 

'~'"tt• 

v 
La:;n;L Ch;ut X."\'VII-2 

Bride 
April 6, 1959 

Saturn Jllpitcr Rahu 



Kootas Groom Bride Gun as 
1. Yam a Ksbatri\"a Brahmin 0 
2. Vashya Manava Jalachara Y: 
3.Taara 8 21 lY: 

(+9; R=S) (+9; R=3) 
4.Yoni Sbwaua Gau .2 
5. Graha-maitri Jupiter Jupiter 5 
6. Gana Rakshasa Manushya 0 
7.Bhakoota Dhanu Meena 7 
s.~aadi Adya Madhya 8 

Total 24 

A total of twenty four gunas as available here falls in the range of acceptability. It 
will also be seen that the chart of the male has Mars in the twelfth house and, therefore, 
indicates the Mangala Dosha. This finds neutralisation in the chart of the female because 
of the placement ofRahu in the eighth. It might be preferable to have a horoscope where 
the Mangala Dosha is neutralised by a malefic occuping the same house in the chart of 
one spouse as occupied by Mars in that of the other. 



More About Naadi 

A more detailed method of reckoning Naadi has been suggested depending upon 
the nature of the nakshtras. According to this method, three different considerations are 
employed as follows: 
(a)Tri-Naadi (three Naadis): This is considered in cases where the girl's nakshatra belongs 
to the group of nakshatras that completely fall in a given sign. Such nakshatras include 
Ashwini, Bharani, Rohini, Ardra, Pushya, Ashlesha, Magha, P. Phalguni, Hasta, Swati, 
Anuradha, Jyestha, Moola, P. Asadha, Shravana, Shatabhishaj, U Bhadrapada, Revati. 
The Naadis for matching to be considered here are the same as shown above (Table 
XXVII-8). 
(b)Chatur-Naadi (four Naadis): When the girl's nakshatra belongs to one of the 
nakshatras that has three of its quarters in one sigu (and one quarter in another), four 
Naadis are to be considered. The relevant nakshatras here are Krittika, Punarvasu, U. 
Phalguni, Vishakha, U. Asadha, P. Bhadrapada, i.e., the nakshatras of the Sun and 
Jupiter. 
The four Naadis are as follows: 

(i) First Naadi: Krittika, Magha, P. Phalguni, Jyeshtha, Moola, U. Bhadrapada, 
Revati. 
(ii) Second Naadi: Rohini, Ashlesha, U Phalguni, Anuradha, P. Ashadha, P. 
Bhadrapada, Ashwini. 
(iii) Third Naadi: Mrigashira, Pushya, Hasta, Vishakha, U. Ashadha, Shatabhishaj, 
Bharani. 
(iv) Fourth Naadi: Ardra, Punarvasu, Chitra, Swati, Shravarna, Dhanishtha. 

(c)Pancha-Naadi (five Naadis): This is to be applied where the girl's nakshatra happens to 
occupy two adjacent nakshatras equally (i.e., it has its two quarters falling in two adjacent 
signs). These nakshatras are Mrigashira, Chitra and Dhanishtha, i.e., the nakshatras of 
Mars. The five Naadis to be considered are as given below: 

(i) FirstNaadi: Mrigashira, Chitra, Swati, Shatabhishaj, P. Bhadrapada. 
(ii) Second Naadi: Ardra, Hasta, Vishakha, Dhanishtha, U. Bhadrapada. 
(iii) Third Naadi: Punarvasu, U. Phalguni, Anuradha, Shravana, Revati. 
(iv) Fourth Naadi: Pushya, P. Phalguni, Jyeshtha, U. Ashadha, Ashwini, Rohini. 
(v) Fifth Naadi: Ashlesha, Magha, Moola, P. Ashadha, Bharani, Krittika. 
According to this method too, the nakshatras of the bridegroom and the bride 

should fall in different Naadis to earn the eight benefic points. Naadi matching ensures a 
long marital life and protection against dangers. 

The Ashta-Kootas mentioned here for matching the horoscopes of prospective 
bride and bridegroom indicate the traditional method of horoscope matching. This 
method lays great stress on a mental match for the couple, hence its almost total reliance 
on the rashi or the Moon signs of the marital partners. When two horoscopes secure a 



score of 18 or above, out of a possible total of 36, they are considered acceptable for 
marriage. The greater the score, the higher is the compatibility. 

It may, however, be pointed out that this is only one of the methods of matching 
the horoscopic charts. In actual matching, several additional factors need to be 
considered. These include a thorough study of each of the two horoscopes separately, 
consideration of the longevity of the partners, the promise of a reasonably good marital 
life and of progeny, and the dasha pattern. Also to be considered are the vargas like the 
navamsha and the Saptamsha. In the modern times, it also needs to be considered whether 
the partners want marriage primarily for progeny or for such other aspects of life as 
financial stability, excessive earning and professional excellence for one or both of them. 
In a way, the process of matching of charts for marriage has become more difficult and 
time consuming today than it used to be in the ancient times. 



.. . XXVIII. .. 

Prashna or Horary Astrology 

With an apparently confused utterance you virtually bewilder my 
intelligence. Spell out decisively the one thing which leads me to 
the highest good. 

Gita III/2. 

Prashna is a unique system of Vedic astrology which does not involve the necessity 
to possess a birth chart. The important factor here is the actual moment of making a 
query. Generally, it involves the erection of a horoscopic chart for the moment of the 
query. The predictions also are generally related to the question made, and to the answers 
derived astrologically. 

Prashna seems to have the blessings of the ancient sage Parshurama. The system of 
Prashna is very elaborately developed in the southern Indian state of Kerala, and the 
principles of this system are briefly available in the classic known as the Prashna Marga. 
According to this highly evolved system, almost any query pertaining to a querist, or his 
relatives, etc., can be answered. In the rest of India, the Prashna method is mainly based 
on the Shatapanchashika ofPrithuyashas, son of the celebrated Varahamihira. Lately, the 
methods of the Tajika system or Varshaphaia were incorporated into it. It is thus a 
common practice to use the Tajika yogas in the Prashna chart. Except for the elaborate 
system practised in Kerala, the Prashna system in general throws light only on a limited 
area and primarily concerns itself with the question put by a querist. Long range 
predictions or widely ranging predictions can generally not 
be made on this basis. However, Prashna is a quick and reliable method for finding 
answers to specific questions especially when the birth time of the native is not known. 

The astrologer notes down the time when a querist approaches him with a question, 
or rings him up about his question. A question can also be asked on behalf of someone 
else. Questions regarding theft, litigation, success or failure, disease, treatment, missing 
persons, survival in accidents, etc., can be answered easily on the basis of Prashna. A 
horoscope is cast for the moment a query is made, and this is subjected to standard 
astrological principles applicable to horary charts. 



Pia nets. houses and signs 

The significations of the planets, houses and signs in a Prashna chart remain the 
same as for natal astrology. Thus, kendras and trikonas associated with natural benefics 
prove to be beneficial. Placement of malefics in houses 3, 6 and II, and their absence 
from the kendras, trikonas and the eighth house also prove beneficial in respect of the 
query made. 



Importance of the Lagna 

The lagna is of utmost importance in a Prashna chart. The nature of the lagna 
indicates the tum of events pertaining to a query. 
(a)Lagna in a Chara rashi (movable sign): A Chara rashi nsmg in the lagna indicates 
change. In a query regarding the health of a patient, the condition will change for better 
or worse. In case of a job, there will be a change of place or status. If it concerns a 
missing person, such a person is unable to settle or attain a position or appointment at his 
existing place which he is likely to change. 
(b)Lagna in a Sthira rashi (fixed sign): A Sthira rashi rising in the lagna indicates that a 
change is unlikely. Depending upon the nature of query, the condition of the patient 
remains static, or there is no transfer or change in status in a job, or the missing person 
remains and settles in his existing position, etc. 
(c)Lagna in a Dwiswabhava rashi (mixed sign): The first half of a Dwiswabhava rashi, 
being adjacent to a Sthira rashi, produces results like a Sthira rashi. The second half of a 
Dwiswabhava rashi, being closer to a Chara rashi, produces results like a Chara rashi. 



Multiple Queries 

When a person puts several questions at the same time, the following rule must be 
observed: 
First question: Judge from the lagna 
Second question: Judge from the position of the Moon 
Third question: From the position of the Sun 
Fourth question: From Jupiter 
Fifth question: From the stronger of the two, viz., Mercury and Venus. 



The role of kendras 

The kendras are very important in the Prashna system. 
The first house (the lagna) concerns itself with change or disturbance of one's 

existing position. The fourth house indicates success or prosperity. The seventh house 
indicates return (to his home or native country) while the tenth house indicates absence 
from one's home or country. 

In a question about health, the physician is represented by the lagna, disease by the 
seventh house, patient by the tenth house and the medicine by the fourth. 

In a query about a traveller or a missing person, the lagna stands for the traveller, 
the seventh for the path or for return, the tenth for absence (from home, etc.) and the 
fourth for the well being of the traveller. 

In a query about theft, the lagna indicates the querist while the seventh house 
indicates the thief. The tenth house indicates the authority (police, etc.) and the fourth 
indicates the property stolen. 

In a query about litigation, the lagna indicates the litigant while the seventh house 
indicates the opponent. The tenth house indicates authority, and the fourth house 
judgement. 



Favourable indications 

I .A house aspected or occupied by its lord or by benefics tends to prosper. 
2.When a benefic occupies the lagna, or the rising Navamsha belongs to a benefic, or 
when the lagna as well as the rising Navamsha fall in Sheershodaya signs (Mithuna, 
Simha, Kanya, Tula, Vrischika, Kumbha), success in business is favoured. 
3.Take note of the nature of query. If the question pertains to such fixed things as house, 
lands, marriage, etc., a fixed or Sthira lagna is favourable. When a question is concerned 
with transfer, recovery from disease, return of the traveller, etc., a movable or Chara 
lagna is better. 
4.Note the house to which the query pertains. If the lagna lord (lagnesha!) and the lord of 
the concerned house (karyesha) (a) occupy their own houses, (b) occupy each other's 
houses, (c) aspect their own houses, or (d) aspect each other's houses, then the query 
pertaining to that house has a favourable outcome. 

At the time of a question pertaining to a pursuit of a highly creative nature, the 
following chart (Chart XXVlll-1) was obtained. Venus, the lagna lord as well as the 
planet of art and sophistication, occupies the fifth house of creativity, along with the fifth 
lord. Venus gets exalted in the Navamsha. Some important Tajika yogas too form in this 
chart indicating success and monetary gains from this venture. The Navamsha and the 
Dashamamsha charts are favourable too. Rahu is on the exact degree of the lagna 
indicating a somewhat unorthodox undertaking, perhaps also making the intentions of 
the querist suspect. 

Sun Ketu 
Mercury Moon 

Venus 
Saturn Mars 

Chart XXVIII-I 
Apr. 6, 1995 

(/ 

jup(R) L1gn;t 
Rahu 

Lagna n·.:t2' Mars 20.20' Venus 17*28' 
Sun 22.32' Mercury 14"19' Saturn 25*00' 
Moon 4.42' Jupiter 21"33' Rahu 11.55' 

5.Placement of benefics in kendras and trikonas, and malefics in houses 3, 6 and II is 



considered highly favourable. 



Nature of Signs 

Biped signs (Mithuna, Kanya, Tula, Kumbha, first half ofDhanu) are strong in the 
lagna. Quadruped signs (Mesha, Vrisha, Simha, latter half of Dhanu and first half of 
Makara) are strong in the tenth house. Watery signs (Karka, Meena, latter half of Makara) 
find strength in the fourth house. Vrischika finds strength in the seventh house. 



Some diverse combinations in a Prashna chart 

l.Jupiter and Venus occupying the second and third houses from the ascendant indicate 
the return of a traveller who has gone abroad. In the fourth house, they indicate 
immediate return. Mercury and Venus in the second and twelfth from the lagna or the 
Moon indicate non-return of the traveller. 
2.A Durudhara forming around the lagna, the Moon or the seventh house indicates that a 
person intending to undertake a journey will not do so. 
3.A Prishtodaya sign (Mesha, Vrisha, Karka, Dhanu and Makara) rising in the ascendant, 
aspected by malefics and unaspected by benefics, with the sixth house occupied by 
malefics, does not augur well for the safety of the traveller or the missing person. 
4.A benefic Durudhara around the seventh house indicates non-return of the traveller 
because of his friends and masters; a malefic Durudhara, because of such compulsions as 
illness or enemies. 
5.A benefic occupying the lagna, and benefics located in houses 3, 6, 9 and II contribute 
to the cure of disease in the case of an ailing person. 
6.1fJupiter and Venus occupy kendras in a Prashna chart, the ailing man recovers. 
?.The patient gets cured when the benefics occupy kendras and trikonas, the Moon 
occupies an Upachaya house and the benefics aspect the lagna. 
8.Placement of the Moon in the eighth house from the lagna, particularly when aspected 
by malefics and unaspected by benefics, does not augur well for the health or survival of 
a patient. 
9.1n cases of theft, a Sthira lagna or a Sthira Navamsha or a Vargottama lagna indicates 
that the thief is a member of the family. A Chara lagna indicates that the thief is a 
stranger. 
1 O.lfthe first Drekkana of the lagna rises at the time of a query, the missing article has 
been left (or dropped) at the gate of the house; if the middle Drekkana rises, the article is 
within the house; if the last Drekkana rises, it will be found in the backyard of the house. 
ll.Mars or the second lord located in the seventh or the eighth house indicates that the 
property will not be recovered. 
12Malefics in the lagna indicate quarrel or physical injury involving the querist. Malefics 
in the fourth house indicate discord at home, and loss of happiness and unity in the 
family. 



Intentions of the guerist 

It often so happens that the querist is not sincere in his query and only intends to 
test the knowledge of the astrologer, or wants to subject him to ridicule. In such cases it is 
necessary to ensure whether or not the querist is sincere and straightforward. Some clues 
are given here. 
!.When Saturn occupies a kendra, Mercury is combust, and the Moon in the ascendant is 
aspected by Mercury and Mars, the querist is insincere and has ill intentions. 
2.A benefic located in the ascendant indicates that the querist is sincere, a malefic that he 
is crooked. 
3 .If either Jupiter or Mercury or an inimical planet aspects the lord of the seventh house, 
the querist is insincere. 
4.In the foregoing situation, if the seventh lord and the planet aspecting it are in tum 
aspected by benefics, the querist is trustworthy. 
5.When the seventh house receives the aspects of Mercury or Jupiter or the Moon (jointly 
or separately), the querist is sincere and honest. 
6.The Moon in the lagna, and the Sun, Mercury and Saturn, together in a kendra, do not 
speak well of the intentions of the querist. 

Note: This chapter on Prashna has been dealt with very briefly and superficially. 
For a detailed account, the reader is referred to appropriate works available on the 
subject. 



oo ·-KX.lXo o·  

Gochara or Planetary Transits 

t1 ~:::nfff et ~:::n fff ~ " a.Ri ~ 
('{ C{~ 'l'l'ZI ftt=f '(04 ~ ft ct '(41 f"4 cU ~ ~ : II 

17wt moves, That moves not; That isfar off, That is very near; 
That is within all this (manifestation), (and) That is without all 
this. 

Ishavasyopanishad, Sl 5. 

A horoscopic chart is like a still picture of the zodiac and the planets which are 
otherwise in a state of flux. The horoscopic chart indicates the position of planets at the 
time of birth. The constant movement of planets, however, continues, and in this process 
the various planets transit over sensitive areas of the horoscope. This makes occurrence of 
specific events possible. The sequence of dashas indicates the sequence of events that 
happen in an individual's life at appropriate moments. Transit of planets helps us clinch 
the moment of occurrence of events very accurately. 

By the foregoing it is meant that the horoscopic chart carries a promise which the 
dasha pattern unfolds in time. The transits confirm the unfolding of that promise at a 
given time. The transits are thus subservient to the natal chart and its dasha pattern. They 
confirm the promise in the chart and indicate its fructification. 



Gochara from the Iagna or the Moon?, 

Classically, the transit of planets in different houses is considered from the position 
of the Moon in the natal chart. The sign occupied by the Moon in the natal chart is 
known as the Janma Rashi of the native. Different planets are said to produce different 
results when they transit the various houses considering the Janma Rashi as the lagna. In 
north India, astrologers make a separate Chandra Kundali, or the lunar chart, marking the 
Moon sign as the lagna. This is used as an alternate horoscope as well as a chart for 
reckoning transits. 

It may, however, be pointed out that transits considered from the lagna appear to 
be working as well in actual horoscopes. They must, therefore, be applied to the natal 
chart also. Their results are perhaps more individualised when they are considered from 
the lagna, than from the Moon. 

Since classical works mention the results of transits in relation to the Moon, they 
will be briefly described here a such. They can be equally well applied to the lagna. 



Transits over Houses 

Different planets produce benefic or malefic results when they transit various 
houses considered from the house occupied by the Moon in the natal chart. Good results 
produced by the planets transiting certain houses are obstructed by other planets 
occupying certain other specific houses. These obstructing planets are said to produce 
what is called 'Vedha'. Hereunder, the houses of benefic transits and the corresponding 
Vedha positions for each planet are being given. 
Sun 
Benefic transits: 3, 6, 10, II 

Vedha positions: 9, 12, 4, 5 
Note: This means that the Sun produces benefic results when transiting the third house, 
unless there is an obstructing planet in the ninth house, from the Moon (or lagna!). 
Similarly, its sixth house transit is good unless obstructed from the twelfth house, and so 
on. 
Moon 
Benefic transits: 1, 3, 6, 7, 10, 11 
Vedha positions: 5, 9, 12, 2, 4, 8 
Mars 
Benefic transits: 3, 6, 11 
Vedha positions: 12 9, 5 
Mercury 
Benefic transits: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 11 
Vedha positions: 5, 3, 9, 1, 8, 12 
Jupiter 
Benefic transits: 2, 5, 7, 9, 11 

Vedha positions: 12 4, 3, 10, 8 
Venus 
Benefic transits: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, 12 
Vedha positions: 8, 7, l, I 0, 9, 5, 11, 3, 6 
Saturn and Rahu 
Benefic transits and Vedha positions are the same as in the case of Mars. 
Note: 
(a)The father-son duo (Sun and Saturn, or Moon and Mercury) do not cause Vedha to 
each other. 



(b)While a planet gives benefic results when transiting benefic houses, its transit over the 
corresponding Vedha positions gives adverse results. For example, the Sun transiting the 
third house gives benefic results, but its transit over the ninth house produces bad results. 
These bad results are obstructed (or get subjected to Vedha) if another planet, other than 
Saturn, transits the third house at the same time. Thus Vedha obstructs benefic results as 
also adverse results. 



Results of Transits 

The various planets trans1tmg the twelve houses from the Moon (or the lagna) 
produce varying results as listed below. 
The Sllll 
The effects of the Sun's transit in the twelve houses are: (I) 111 health, travel; (2) Loss of 
wealth; (3) Health and wealth; (4) Illness, worries; (5) Mental anguish; (6) Annihilation 
of foes; (7) Travel, illness to wife; (8) Humiliation, disease; (9) Humiliation, mental 
anguish; (10) Success in undertakings; (II) High status; and (12) Losses and ill health. 
The Moon 
The results of the transit of the Moon in the several houses are: (I) Good fortune; (2) 
Loss of wealth; (3) Victory; (4) Apprehensions; (5) Depression; (6) Freedom from illness; 
(7) Varied comforts; (8) Unexpected adverse events; (9) Ill health; (10) Success in 
undertakings; (II) Gains, happiness; and (12) Expenditure. 
Mars 
The results of Mars' transit in the twelve houses are: (I) Mental torment; (2) Loss of 
wealth; (3) Victory; (4) Displacement from place of work or residence; (5) Mental 
anguish; (6) Victory over enemy and disease; (7) Discord with wife; (8) Unexpected 
tragedy, accident, etc.; (9) Loss of health and wealth; (10) Obstacles, physical exertion; 
(II) Gain of health and wealth; and (12) Loss of wealth. 
Mercury 
The results of Mercury's transit are: (I) Loss of wealth; (2) Gain of wealth; (3) Fear from 
foes; (4) Multiple gains; (5) Discord with wife and children; (6) Dominance over 
opponents; (7) Quarrels; (8) Gain ofwealth, loss ofhealth; (9) Obstacles to undertakings; 
(10) All comforts; (II) Multiple gains; (12) Dominance by opponents. 
Jupiter 
The transit of Jupiter produces the following results: (I) Displacement and expenditure; 
(2) Gain of wealth; (3) Ill health; (4) Discord at home, increase of opponents; (5) 
Happiness, birth of a child; (6) Troubles from enemies; (7) Comforts from wife and 
children, auspicious journey; (8) Unwanted travel, loss of wealth; (9) Virtuous pursuits, 
many gains; (l 0) Apprehensions about career; (II) Acquisition of wealth and status; (12) 
Loss ofwealth. 
Venus 
The results of transit of Venus are: (I) Physical pleasures; (2) Inflow of wealth; (3) 
Varied gains; (4) Increase in the number of friends; (5) Birth of a son; (6) Misfortunes; 
(7) Troubles to or from wife; (8) Gain of health and wealth; (9) Varied comforts; (10) 
Quarrels; (II) Gain of wealth, apprehensions, etc; (12) Acquisition of wealth. 
Saturn 
Saturn's transit over the twelve houses causes: (I) 111 health; (2) Loss of wealth; (3) Rise 
in status; (4) Discord at home; (5) Illness to chidren, and mental anguish; (6) Dominance 
over opponents; (7) Troublesome journey, and illness to wife; (8) Varied misfortunes; (9) 



Base acts, harm to father; (10) Obstacles to career; (11) Inflow of wealth, varied 
comforts; (12) Wastage of effort and money. 
Rahu 
Rahu's transit in the twelve houses leads to: (1) Illness; (2) Loss of wealth; (3) Varied 
pleasures; (4) Miseries; (5) Loss of wealth; (6) Comforts; (7) Humiliation; (8) Serious 
illness; (9) Losses; (10) Comforts; (11) Good fortune; (12) Excessive expenditure. 



Points to Remember 

!.When a planet transits a benefic house identical with its debilitation sign or enemy's 
house, its benefits are fore-shortened. Debilitation coinciding with bad transits leads to 
adverse results. 
2.Transits coinciding with exaltation or own house are favourable. 
3.Transits ofmalefics over the natal malefics are particularly harmful. 
4.The Sun and Mars produce results, immediately after entering a sign; Jupiter and Venus 
produce results in the middle of a sign; the Moon and Saturn produce their results when 
in the concluding one-third of a sign; Mercury and Rahu produce their results throughout 
the transit of a sign. 
5.Ail transits are subservient to the static promise in the horoscope and the sequence of 
dashas. 



Transits over Nakshatras 

Transit of malefics over the following nakshatras is considered adverse: 
l.Birth nakshatra (Janma), and its trinal nakshatras, i.e., the tenth (Karma) and the 
nineteenth (Adhana) from it. 
2. Third (Vi pat) from the birth nakshatra. 
3 .Fifth (Pratyari) from the birth nakshatra. 
4.Seventh (Vadha) from the birth nakshatra. 
5.Twenty-second (Vainashaka) from the birth nakshatra. 



The Sade-Sati of Saturn 

Saturn takes approximately two and a half years to transit a sign. Its transit in the 
three houses, falling in the twelfth, first and second from the Moon, and lasting a period 
of seven and a half years (Sade-Sati: seven and a half!), is considered particularly 
adverse. This period coincides with varied troubles, apprehensions, losses, tragedies, 
wanderings and physical ailments. 

Sade-sati recurs roughly after a cycle of thirty years. A person may have a 
maximum ofthree cycles of Sade-Sati. It is said that the first cycle of the Sade-Sati proves 
adverse for the parents of the native, the second for the native himself, and the third for 
his progeny. 

While this transit of Saturn over the Moon and its two surrounding houses has been 
widely condemned, it is important not to apply these results blindly. One must consider 
the location of the Moon in the natal chart, the sign occupied by the Moon, as also the 
planetary period (MD, AD, PO, etc.,) in operation. Only after considering all these factors 
should the results of Sade-Sati be announced. 
Examples 

The native of Chart XXIX-I was running the MD/AD of Jupiter-Rahu from April 
2, 1992 to August 26, 1994. Jupiter is the retrograde eighth and eleventh lord in the 
eleventh house, whereas Rahu is located in the sixth house along with a debilitated Sun. 
The MD/AD lords are placed 6/8 from each other. 



f' 
Jup(R) Sat(R) 

Ketu Lagn;l 

Chart XXIX- I 
Birth Chart 

Mars Nov. 7, 1939 

Venus Suu Moon 
~'lt·rcu11 Rahu 

Lagna 25"01' Mars 29"30' Venus i"30' 
Sun 21"12' i\·lc:rcury 14"13' Saturn (R) 3"30' 
Moon 1"33' Jupiter {R) 6"20' Rahu 5"25' 

Ketu Moon 

Tran~it 
Nov. 5, 1993 

Saturn 

Rahu i'vh:r(R) 
Mars SunVen 

Jupiter 

On November 5, 1993 the native was compulsorily retired by official orders. Mars 
in transit aspects the tenth house from the natal Moon; Jupiter too does the same; Saturn, 
the debilitated retrograde lord of the tenth in the natal chart, occupies the fifth house 
(eighth from the tenth!) from the natal Moon. The Moon occupies the tenth house from 
the natal Moon on the day the retirement orders were received by the native. 

Transits in effect sensitise or activate specific houses so that events pertaining to 
those houses take place. Jupiter transiting the second house from the natal Moon and 
aspecting the second house from the lagna ensured good amount of money as terminal 
benefits. 



The native of Chart XXIX-2 was running the MD/AD/PD of Rahu-Mars-Sun from 
February 5, 1987 to February 24, 1987 during which he sustained a serious car accident 
(on February 15, 1987). Rahu involves the 3/9 axis of movement, Mars is the planet of 
accidents aspecting the third lord, whereas the Sun is debilitated, associated with Mars and 
aspected by Saturn. 

Moon 

Ketu Chart XXIX-2 
Birth Chart 

Saturn Oct. 27, 1961 
Jupiter Rahu 

~ Mer(R) 
Lagna Sun v~·nus 

Mars 

Lagna 17'45' Mars 24.09' Venus 17'57' 
Sun 10 '13' Mercury 0"53' s~Jturn 0'37' 
Moon 24'46' Jupiter 5"46' R~thu 1"22' 

Rahu Mars 
Jupiter 

Mercury 
Sun Transit 

Feb. 15, 1937 
Moon 

Venus Saturn Ketu 

In transit, the Sun was in the third house from the lagna (hence the importance of 
lagna in transit), on natal Ketu (watch for malefics transiting the malefics in natal chart!). 



Saturn in transit occupied the lagna, and the seventh from the Moon (both adverse), and 
aspected the lord of the third house. Mars transited the twelfth from the Moon. The Moon 
was in the ninth house aspecting the third house and transiting the RKA. The Moon's 
transit in effect clinches the day an event occurs. Transit of the eleventh house from the 
Moon by Jupiter and Rahu acts as a protective factor. 

The native of Chart XXIX-3 had her marriage fixed for a day when five planets 
were located in the eighth house from her natal Moon. Three of these, the Sun, Mars, and 
Rahu, are natural malefics while Mercury is a functionally bad planet considered from the 
Moon. The marriage party came to her house, insulted her as well as her parents, and left 
without going through the marriage ceremony. There are too many malefics in the eighth 
house from the Moon. The transit Moon, in the fifth from the natal Moon, 



Jupiter Moon Rahu 

Venus Chart XXIX-3 
Birth Chart 

Saturn 
Mars Jan. 22, 1964 
Sun 

~ 
Ketu 

.Mercury Lagna 

Lagna 29"0S' Mars 13"21' Venus 12°20' 
Sun i"24' Mercury 13"30' Saturn 29°20' 
Moon 1"30' Jupiter 19"49' R;1hu 16°54' 

Kctu 

Saturn 
Transit 

Dec. 7, 1993 
Moon 

RahSun 
MarYe n Jupiter 
Mcrctirv 

and the twelfth from the lagna, is no good. While fixing a Muhurta for marriage, it is 
esential to ensure that the eighth house from the lagna as well as the Moon is free from 
affliction. 



... XXX ... 

Ashtakavarga 

Earth, water,fire, air, ether, mind and reason and ego - thus is 
My nature divided eightfold. 

Gita VII/4 
Ashtakavarga is a unique system of prediction in Vedic astrology. It is primarily 

used to decipher the results of planetary transits. Combined with the dasha system, it helps 
in making remarkably accurate predictions. The whole system of Ashtakavarga is quite 
elaborate and, therefore, beyond the scope of this work. Here, only the elementary 
concepts of this technique of prediction are being presented. For greater details, the 
reader is referred to the Ashtakavarga: The Dots of Destiny by Vinay Aditya. 



Basis of Ashtakavan!:a. 

I .Each chart has seven planets (from the Sun to Saturn) and the lagna from where all 
good or bad results ensue. The Ashtakavarga (i.e., eight-fold) system considers these 
eight points as of special relevance. Rahu and Ketu are not considered in Ashtakavarga 
calculations, though there is some controversy in this regard. 
2.Each of the seven planets influences certain houses beneficially when considered from 
the above-mentioned eight points. The remaining houses are influenced adversely. The 
houses beneficially influenced are marked by a rod or a dot (called henceforth as the 
benefic point). 
3.Seven different charts are thus possible for the seven different planets. These are called 
as Bhinnashtakavargas. The position of each planet in the natal chart is of primary 
consideration. 
4.Any given house can have a maximum of eight benefic points contributed by the 
planet in respect of seven planets and the lagna. The greater the number of benefic points 
in a house, the stronger and more benefic it is. 
5. When the benefic points contributed by each planet in different signs are added, we get 
a Sarvashtakavarga. The Sun contributes a total of 48 benefic points, the Moon 
contributes 49 points, Mars contributes 39 points, Mercury contributes 54 points, Jupiter 
contributes 56 points, Venus contributes 52 points, and Saturn contributes 39 benefic 
points. A total of 337 benefic points are contributed, by the seven planets, to various 
houses in relation to seven planets and the lagna. 
6.In general, good results accrue when planets transit strong houses (i.e., houses 
containing greater number of benefic points) and bad results follow when they transit 
weak houses (with fewer benefic points). 

Below are given the specific houses where each of the seven planets proves 
auspicious when considered from each of the eight cardinal points (the seven planets and 
the lagna). This gives the Bhinnashtaka of the seven planets. 
The Sun 
The Sun is beneficial in the houses indicated against each of the eight cardinal points, as 
follows: 
(!)Sun I, 2, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, I I , 
(2) Moon 3, 6, 10, I I, 
(3) Mars I , 2, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, I I , 
(4) Mercury 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, I I, 12, 
(5) Jupiter 5, 6, 9, II , 
(6) Venus 6, 7, 12, 
(7) Saturn I, 2, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, I I, 
(8) Lagna 3, 4, 6, 10, II, 12, 
Total: 48 benefic points. 
The Moon 



The Moon is beneficial in the houses indicated against each of the eight cardinal points, 
as follows: 
(!)Sun 3, 6, 7, 8, 10, II, 
(2) Moon I' 3, 6, 7, 10, II , 
(3) Mars 2, 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, II, 
(4) Mercury I, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, II, 
(5) Jupiter I, 4, 7, 8, 10, II , 12, 
(6)Venus 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, II, 
(7) Saturn 3, 5, 6, II, 
(8)Lagna3, 6, 10, II, 
Total: 49 benefic points. 
Mars 
Mars is beneficial in the houses indicated against each of the eight cardinal points, as 
follows: 
(!)Sun 3, 5, 6, 10, II, 
(2)Moon 3, 6, II, 
(3) Mars I' 2, 4, 7, 8, 10, II, 
(4) Mercury 3, 5, 6, II, 
(5) Jupiter 6, 10, II, 12, 
(6) Venus 6, 8, II , 12, 
(7) Saturn I, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, II, 
(8) Lagna I, 3, 6, 10, 11, 
Total: 39 benefic points. 
Mercury 
Mercury is beneficial in the houses indicated against each of the eight cardinal points, as 
follows: 
(!)Sun 5, 6, 9, II, 12, 
(2)Moon 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, II, 
(3)Mars I, 2, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, II, 
(4)Mercuryl, 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, II, 12, 
(5) Jupiter 6, 8, II, 12, 
(6)Venus I, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, II, 
(7) Saturn I, 2, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, II, 
(8) Lagna I, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, II, 
Total: 54 benefic points. 
Jupiter 
Jupiter is beneficial in the houses indicated against each of the eight cardinal points as 



follows: 
(!)Sun 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 
(2) Moon 2, 5, 7, 9, II , 
(3) Mars 1, 2, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, 
(4)Mercuryl, 2, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, II , 
(5) Jupiter 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, 
(6) Venus 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 
(7) Saturn 3, 5, 6, 12, 
(8) Lagna 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 
Total: 56 benefic points. 
Venus 
Venus is beneficial in the houses indicated against each of the eight cardinal points, as 
follows: 
(!)Sun 8, 11, 12, 
(2)Moon 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, 12, 
(3) Mars 3, 5, 6, 9, II, 12, 
(4) Mercury 3, 5, 6, 9, 11, 
(5) Jupiter 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 
(6) Venus 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 
(7) Saturn 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 
(8) Lagna I, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, II, 
Total: 52 benefic points. 
Saturn 
Saturn is beneficial in the houses indicated against each of the eight cardinal points, as 
follows: 
(!)Sun 1, 2, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, 
(2) Moon 3, 6, 11, 
(3) Mars 3, 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, 
(4) Mercury 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 
(5) Jupiter 5, 6, 11, 12, 
(6) Venus 6, II , 12, 
(7) Saturn 3, 5, 6, 11, 
(8) Lagna 1, 3, 4, 6, 10, 11, 
Total: 39 benefic points. 
Example 

1t is now possible to tabulate the above information in respect of each planet. This 
would give us a 'scattered' picture known as the "Prastaraka Ashtakavarga". From this 



can be derived the Bhinnashtaka varga of each planet. 
Let us work out the Bhinnashtaka charts for a native (John F. Kennedy) born on 

May 29, 1917 at 3:15:28 hours (LMT), Long. 071W08', Lat. 42N20' (USA). The 
horoscopic chart is as under. 

Sun 
Mercury Venus Ketu 

Mars Jupiter 

Chart XXX-1 Saturn 

Birth Chart 
May 29, 1917 Moon 

~ 
Rahu Lagna 

Lagna 2i"3i' Mars 25"43' Venus 24"02' 
Sun 15"03' Mercury 2T53' Saturn 4"27' 
Moon 24*30' Jupiter 0"20' Rahu 18*32' 



Prastaraka of the Sun 
Signs I 2 .")  4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Total 

Mar Sun Sat Mon A~ 
Mer \'en 

Jup 
Sun 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 s 
Moon 0 0 0 0 4 
Mars 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 s 
~·lcrcurr 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 
Jupiter 0 0 0 0 4 
Venus 0 0 0 3 
Saturn 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 s 
Lagna 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 
Bhinna- 3 4 4 3 4 2 5 4 4 6 5 4 48 
Ash taka 

Sun 
4 ~ 

,) 4 4 

5 Bhinnashtaka 3 
Chart 

6 SUN 4 

fi{,:1gu:t 
4 4 5 2 

Similarly Prastaraka and Bhinnashtaka charts are prepared for all the planets. The 
Bhinnashtaka charts for the remaining planets are given below. Prastaraka charts for the 
remaining planets are not being given for reasons of constraints of space. 



3 2 4 4 

7 Bhinnashtaka 4 
Chart 

MOON Moon 
4 5 

'Lagna 
4 6 3 3 

Mars 
4 4 2 3 

6 Bhinnashtaka 4 
Chart 

3 MARS 1 

I~'Lagna 
1 2 6 3 



Mercury 
6 6 4 4 

4 Bhinnashtaka 4 
Chart 

6 MERCURY 3 

lf'L:1~na 
5 2 5 5 

Jupiter 
4 _',  5 6 

7 Bhinnashtaka 5 
Chart 

5 JUPITER _",  

lagn a 
6 4 ... 

.~ 5 

Venus 
6 4 3 4 

5 Bhinnashtaka 3 
Chart 

3 VENUS 4 

ft.:1gna 
7 ... 

,) :l 7 



5 2 2 4 

Saturn 
4 Hhinnashtaka I 

Chart 
• SATUR~ 
.) 2 

fLgna 
4 4 j" ' 5 

Adding up the benefic points obtained by different signs (and houses), we get what 
is called as the Sarvashtakavarga. This gives a ready view of the relative beneficence or 
maleficence (also strength and weakness) of different houses in numerical terms. 

32 24 24 29 

38 24 
Sarvashtaka-

Varga 
30 22 

~Lagn:\ 
31 25 28 30 

A maximum of 56 benefic points are possible in a given sign in the 
Sarvashtakavarga chart. Twenty-eight is considered as the average strength; more than 
this makes the house progressively strong; less than this progressively weak. 

Table XXX-I is being given below to indicate benefic points contributed to the 
various houses as considered from each of the seven planets and the lagna. These may be 
used to make a Sarvashtakavarga chart without making any Bhinnashtaka chart. 

Table XXX-2 shows the application of this information to chart XXX-I. 



Table XXX-1: Benefic points from the lagna and the planets 
for making a Sarvashtaluwarga chart. 

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Total 

I~. .  
Sun 3 3 I 3 I 3 2 3 4 5 ~"'  5 7 2 43 
i\·Ioon 2 3 5 2 2 5 2 2 2 ,"}  7 1 36 
Mars 4 5 I 3 I 4 I 3 ."}  4 4 4 6 7 2 4~ 

l\·I c-rcu ry 3 I 1 I s I 2 16 6 1 2 5 5 7 .")'  46 
Ju pit cr 2 1 I 1 I 2 3 4 2 4 2 4 7 4 36 
Venus 2 " ")  I 3 4 4 2 .")  4 .")  6 ... 

.) . .) 40 
Saturn 3 I 2 14 14 14 .".)  ."l  4 4 4 6 I 42 
Lagna 5 3 5 

 I s 2 6 1 2 2 6 7 1 45 
'

I ",..._  .),l I

Table XX."X-2: San·~tshtak.·n·arga m:tking the usc of t:tblc X-'<X-1 

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 to 11 12 Total 

~  .\Jar Sun Sat ~I on As.: 
~lcr \en 

. Jup 
Sun 2 3 3 3 .")  2 .")  I 4 5 .")  5 7 43 
i\·loon 2 .")  7 1 2 .")  5 2 2 5 2 2 36 
i\hrs 4 5 .")  4 .")  .")  4 1 4 1 4 1 6 7 2 49 
Mercury " 1 5 2 6 6 ·-1j 2j5j5 7 --:;-

.) .> 46 
Jupiter 4 2 1 1 2 ."l  4 2 4 2 4 7 36 
Venus .")  2 3 3 3 4 4 I 2 I 3 I 4 .")'  6 40 
Saturn 4 6 1 .".)  1 4 4 I 4 3 ... 

.) 4 4 41 
l.agna 2 2 6 7 I 5 I ... 

.) I 5 I 5 12 6 1 45 
Savr:1sh- 24 24 29 24 22 30 28 25 31 30 38 32 337 
takvarga 



Ashtakavarga for Daily Use: The Conccot of Kakshva 

The Prastaraka charts for different planets can be represented in a different manner 
to make use of the concept of Kakshyas. Each rashi or sign is divided into eight equal 
parts or Kakshyas, each of an extent of 3°45'. They are owned by the seven planets and 
the lagna in the following manner: 

Kakshya Kakshya Extent of Kakshya 
number lord from to 

1 Saturn o·oo· 3"45' 
2 Jupiter 3"45' 7"30' 
11 Mars 7"30' ,,·,.::;· 
4 Sun 11"15' 15"00' 
5 Venus 1s·oo· 18.45' 
6 Mercurv 18° 45' 22"30' 
7 Moon ' 22.30' 26.15' 
8 Lagna (Ascendant) 26·1 s· 3o·oo· 

The Prastaraka chart for each planet can thus be readjusted to bring in the concept 
of the Kakshyas. The Prastaraka chart for the Sun for the chart XXX-I would thus appear 
as given below: 



Prastaraka of thcSun (in the order of Kakshyas) 

Signs 1 2 ".l'  4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Total 
Mar Sun Sat Mon As!:: 
~lcr \'en 

Jup 
Saturn 0 0 0 0 0 I 0 0 0 8 
Jupiter 0 0 0 0 4 
Mars 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 s 
Sun 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 8 
Venus 0 0 0 !1 
Mercun* 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 
Moon 0 0 0 0 4 
Lagna 0 0 0 0 I 0 0 6 
Total :f 4 4 3 4 2 5 4 4 6 5 4 48 

Prastarakas for the different planets can be made in a similar manner. When a 
planet in transit happens to be within the first 3°45' of a sign, it is considered to be in the 
Kakshya of Saturn. Between 3°45' and 7"30' of a sign, the planet in transit is considered 
to be in the Kakshya of Jupiter. Similarly, a planet's transit in various Kakshyas in the 
Prastaraka of a given planet can be ascertained. A planet is considered to be productive of 
benefic results when it transits a Kakshya where there is a benefic point. 

Kakshyas for daily use: The concept of Kakshyas can be employed for daily use. 
The method of this application is simple. Prepare the Prastaraka charts for the seven 
planets. Then find out the longitudes of each of the seven planets on a given day. In the 
Prastaraka of the Sun, see if the transiting Sun is passing through a Kakshya with a 
benefic point. For the Moon's transit, consider the Prastaraka of the Moon. See for all the 
planets. When several planets are transiting the Kakshyas where the natal planets have 
contributed benefic points, that day is auspicious. When several planets transit the 
Kakshyas where there are no benefic points, it is adverse time for the native. Depending 
upon the number of planets transiting Kakshyas with benefic points, the results in general 
will be as follows: 
I. All seven planets transiting Kakshya with a benefic point: Excellent; day of 
achievements. 
2. Six planets: Excellent. 
3. Five planets: Very good. 
4. Four planets: Good results; this is the borderline. 



5. Three planets: Average; some difficulties. 
6. Two planets: Very bad. 
7. One planet: Extremely bad; set backs, accidents. 
8. No planet transiting a Kakshya with a benefic point: Extremely bad, accidents, even 
death. 

The above mentioned results must only be applied with caution. The Kakshyas are 
not the final word in Ashtakavarga. It must also be remembered that Ashtakavarga is only 
a system of transits and, therefore, subservient to the natal chart as well as the dasha 
system. 



General Principles Applicable to Ashtakavarga 

As is true of all horoscopic study, Ashtakavarga also sheds light on the two basic aspects 
of a chart: 
A.The static aspect, by the number of benefic points in different houses. This shows the 
promise inherent in a horoscopic chart. 
B .The dynamic aspect, when dashas and transits are applied to the Ashtakavarga charts. It 
involves certain subtle calculations which, meticulously done, yield extraordinary results. 
This indicates the time of fructification of the promise inherent in a chart. 
Some very general principles governing the use of Ashtakavarga are described below. 
I. Ashtakavrga must be calculated on the basis of the Rashi position of the planets and not 
the Bhava position which may differ from the natal chart. 
2.Ashtakavarga is subservient to the dashas as well as the inherent promise in the 
horoscope. It will not take precedence over the natal chart but is a most substantial 
complimentary aid. In any given chart, a particular dasha indicates happenings of a 
particular nature. The extent and nature of such a promise fructifying during the relevant 
dasha must be judged from the Ashtakavarga. 
3 .Primarily, the results of Ashtakavarga are determined from Gochara or transit of planets 
over different houses as reckoned from the lagna or the Moon. 
4.The nature of results produced by a planet depend upon the house it owns or occupies, 
as well as the natural significations of this planet. 
5 .In a Bhinnashtakavarga, the maximum number of benefic points is eight and the 
minimum is zero. Four points in a house indicates average or mixed results. As the 
number of benefic points lhcreases to 5, 6 or 7, the beneficence of the house increases. 
With 8 points in a house, excellent results are expected. 

Houses with 3, 2 or I benefic points become progressively inauspicious. Houses 
with no benefic points in them are extremely bad. Transits of malefics through these 
houses prove decidedly harmful. 
6.The results produced by the varying number of benefic points in a house have been 
described thus in the classics: 

No benefic point: Humiliation, disease and danger. 
I point: Disease, misery, hardships, aimlesswandering. 
2 points: Mental anguish, censure by the ruler, deprivation by the thieves. 
3 points: Mental and physical discomforts. 
4 points: Both good and bad results in equal measure. 
5 points: Learning, wealth, children, good clothes. 
6 points: Good character, victory over opponents, wealth, vehicles, renown. 
7 points: Honours, awards, extremely good fortune. 



8 points: Regal grace and glory. 
7 .Planets which are strong, exalted or placed in their own houses lose much effect if they 
are associated with fewer benefic points in their Bhinnashtakavarga charts. 
8.Weak, debilitated or combust planets retain much of their efficacy if associated with 
greater than average number of benefic points in their Ashtakavarga charts. 
9.Sarvashtakavmga chart provides an overall view of the strength and weakness of 
different houses. lt is the most elaborate and the most scientific of all transits as it contains 
a cumulative planetary influence of all the seven planets in relation to all the seven 
planets and the lagna. Such observations, and several others, can be made on its basis as 
are given hereunder: 

(a) When the lagna and the eighth house have more than average number (28 is the 
average number!) of benefic points, the native possesses good health. Less than 
average number ofbenefic points in these houses indicates proneness to disease. ln 
the chart of J.F. Kennedy, the eighth house is relatively weak. 
(b) Larger number of benefic points in the eleventh house compared to the tenth 
indicates greater achievements (or earnings) through less labour. 
(c) Larger number ofbenefic points in the twelfth house compared to the eleventh 
indicates excessive spending compared to the earnings. Or it may mean benefits or 
earnings from foreign countries. 
(d) More benefic points in the second house compared to the twelfth stresses on 
greater accumulation and less spending or enjoyments. 
(e) A strong sixth house may indicate struggles and a proneness to illness. 

lO.A quantum jump between any two houses indicates a significant rise or fall as the 
planets transit from one house to the next. 
ll.An observation of Col. Gaur (see Professions by Col. A.K. Gaur) is that when the fifth 
house has greater number of benefic points compared to the tenth house, the career of the 
native suffers, unless a strong eleventh house acts as an antidote. Whether this principle 
can be extended to other houses of the chart is a matter of research. 
12.Transits of Jupiter through strong houses confer dignity on the native; those of Saturn 
confer power and leadership. 
13.When the MD, AD and PD lords transit strong houses, they produce benefic results. 
When they transit weak houses, the results produced are adverse. 
14.For daily application, the consideration of transit of planets through Kakshyas yields 
reasonably dependable results, especially when considered along with the dasha-
antardasha. 
15.Ashtakavarga has been advocated to be used in Muhurta also. A simple method of 
using Ashtakavarga for Muhurta is to choose a lagna from which a particular house, 
which happens to signify the intended undertaking, has greater number ofbenefic points. 
The significator for the intended undertaking should also be transiting a strong house. 
For example, the Sun is the karaka for official matters or government jobs, Mars stands 
for land deals and houses, Venus for marriage or vehicles, Jupiter for children or 



education, etc. These planets must be transiting strong houses at the time of such pursuits 
as pertain to these significators. 
16.Accuracy in results demands the use of subtler techniques of Ashtakavarga, integrated 
with dash as and transits. 



... XXXI ... 

Sudarshana Chakra 

ai'1if~¥Ot'4 HHH~ctt4ii+~ct 1.§ ;<'If~ I t£4~ ~'(I 
Q;<l'41f4 F.:fi ~tif§dl;<llcttfd ¥-4~~'81 ~ dQ~'(II 

I behold Thee as one without beginning, middle or end, of 
infinite power, of numberless arms, with the Moon and the Sun as 
Thine eyes, with Thy face as a flaming fire, whose radiance burns 
up this universe. 

Gita XI/19 
The Sudarshana Chakra is the discus that lord Krishna carries on his right index 

finger in the battlefield. It is used selectively, to annihilate the most dreaded opponent, 
and is supposed to be unfailing in its effect. The Sudarshana Chakra of Parashara is 
likewise supposed to yield the most dependable results in horoscopic analysis. It makes a 
composite use of three lagnas: the natallagna, the Chandra lagna and the Surya lagna. 

While teaching Jyotish to his disciple Maitreya, sage Parashara spoke thus of the 
Sudarshana Chakra: "Now, 0' Brahmin, I shall talk of that confidential and superlative 
piece of wisdom which lord Brahma Himself spoke of, with the good of the world in 
mind. This is about the Chakra, named as Sudarshana, by the use of which the wise are 
able to decipher the auspicious and the inauspicious events of human beings, pertaining 
to the twelve houses from the lagna onwards, from birth till their death, every year, every 
month and every day. May you, therefore, listen about that carefully". 

Sage Parashara then goes on to describe how to make use of the Sudarshana Chakra 
in order to obtain accuracy in making predictions. 



Constructing the Sudarshana Chakra 

Make three circles, one outside the other, on a common centre. Draw lines across as 
well as tangentially to divide it into twelve parts. Within the minor circle, mark the twelve 
rashis in an anticlockwise direction, starting from the natal Iagna. Locate the planets in the 
appropriate signs according to their placement in the natal chart. 

In the middle circle, start from the Moon-sign instead of the natal lagna and place 
the planets in the houses as considered from the Moon in the natal chart. 

In the outermost circle, start from the Sun-sign as in the natal chart and mark the 
signs and planets in an anticlockwise direction accordingly. 

We shall use here the example of Smt. Indira Gandhi, the late Prime Minister of 
India, born on November 19, 1917, at 23:11 hours 1ST, atAIIahabad 25°N27', 8l 0E5J' 
(Chart XXXI-I). The Sudarshana Chakra appropriate to this chart is depicted as Figure I. 

It will now be seen that the first house is represented by the natal lagna, the Moon 
lagna and the Sun lagna. It will be affected by all the planets that in the natal chart 
occupy the Iagna as well as those that are in association with the Moon and the Sun. The 
distribution ofplanets in the remaining houses ofthe chart will vary accordingly. It is in 
essence a composite view of the lagna chart, the Moon chart and the Sun chart lying one 
over the other. 

Jupiter 
Ketu 

(R) 

I~ 
Lagna 

Chart XXXI-I Saturn 

Nov., I9. 191i Mars 
Moon 

Venus Sun 
Rahu Mercury 

La~na 27.22' Mars Venus 2I*OO' 
Sun o-t·os· Mercury n·1-t' Saturn 21. 47' 
Moon 05.35' jupitcr(R) 15"00' Rahu 09.12' 



Sun 
Mcr8c un.·  

Moon 
10 

Saturn 

Figure 1: Sudarshana Chakra: 
Planetary disposition in the twelve houses of the chart 



Applicability 

The Sudarshana Chakra gives an authentic view of all the houses of the horoscope 
and its use is highly recommended. This is because it comprises the study of all the twelve 
houses from three cardinal points of the horoscope: the lagna, the Moon and the Sun. 
However, its application is to be restricted to those cases only where the lagna, the Moon 
and the Sun fall in different houses of the chart. When any two or all three fall in the 
same house, this method should not be used. In such cases, predictions must be done 
from the natal lagna only. 



Guidelines for prediction 

The first house of the Sudarshana Chakra contains the lagna, the Sun and the Moon 
(as well as any other planets that associate with these three lagnas). This house is to be 
treated as the (composite) lagna. The next one is to be considered the (composite) second 
house; and so on in case of the remaining houses. 
• The Sun in the lagna is not to be considered as a malefic in the Sudarshana Chakra 
system. In fact, it is to be considered as a benefic here. 
• Natural malefics in exaltation or in their own signs are also to be considered as benefic. 
• Natural benefics would behave adversely if they are debilitated or in inimical signs. 
• The house that harbours its own lord or a benefic planet tends to prosper. Benefic aspect 
on the house also ensures its well-being. 
• A house that is associated with or aspected by malefics tends to suffer. 
• A house that has an occupant yields results according the effects of the occupant of the 
house. 
• An unoccupied house yields results according to the planet or planets aspecting it. 
• A house occupied or aspected only by benefics yields benefic results. 
• The one occupied or aspected only by malefics yields malefic results. 
• When there are both benefic and malefic influences on a house, the nature of results 
yielded by the house would depend on whether the benefics or the malefics predominate. 
• When both benefic and malefic influences are equal on a given house, the nature of 
results would depend on the relative strengths of the benefics and the malefics that 
influence it. The stronger of the two influences is likely to prevail. 
• When a house is neither occupied nor aspected, the results must be judged from the 
disposition of its lord. 



Deciding on the Benefic and Malefic Nature of Planets 

It is important to understand about what is a benefic and what is a malefic. Any 
planet, benefic or malefic by nature, would acquire beneficence if it occupies benefic 
vargas. On the other hand, a planet acquires maleficence if it falls in malefic vargas. Here, 
the vargas of natural benefics as well as own and exaltation signs confer beneficence. 
Contrarily, the vargas of natural malefics as well as signs of inimical planets and 
debilitation confer maleficence. It is customary to use the Saptavargas, viz., Rashi, Hora, 
Drekkana, Saptamsha, Navamsha, Dwadashamsha and Trimshamsha. We tabulate the 
disposition of the planets in different vargas as appropriate to our example chart, to 
decide about their relative beneficence or maleficence (Table XXXI-I). We also consider 
here the inherent nature of each planet as a factor, besides its disposition in the seven 
vargas. 

It may be noted that the nature of planets based on their disposition in the 
Saptavargas is not specific to the Sudarshana Chakra. However, this information can be 
used in the Sudarshana Chakra to decide about the nature of results one would expect 
from the different houses in the Sudarshana Chakra. 



Results from the Different Houses 

After deciding on the nature of planets, it is required to decipher whether the 
different houses in the Sudarshana Chakra would yield benefic or malefic results. This is 
determined from the number of benefic and malefic influences (by association or aspect) 
on each house. This has been shown in Table XXXI-2. 

Table I: Lords of Saptavargas of planets and their nature 

Planet > Sn Moon Mars ~lercury• Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu 

Ra1hi Mars Saturn Sn Mars Venus Jupiter Moon Jupiter Mercury 

llorJ Moon IM oon M(XIO M<»n Sn Moon Sn Sn Sn 

Drekkana Mars San~rn Jupiter Jupiter Mercury Sn Jupiter Jupiter Mercury 

Saptamsha Venus ISn Mars Sn Saturn Mars Mercury Saturn Sn 

~~~·~m1hl Sn Saturn Sn Venus Venus Venus Saturn Mercury Jupiter 

Dwadashamsha Jupiter Jupiter Saturn Mars Mars Sun Jupiter Jupiter ~lcrcury 

Trimsham1ha Venus Mercury Jupiter Jupiter Jupiter Mercury Saturn Saium Saturn 

Nature of Planet Benefic Neutral Neutral Benefic Benefic Benefic Benefic Neutral Neutral 

Note: The inherent nature of each planet has also been considered as a factor in deciding the 
nature of the planet, besides its disposition in the seven vargas. 



Table II: Benefic and malefic nature of houses based on the Saptavarga 

Houscst No. of occupants Aspects (in case Benefic Malefic Neutral Nature of 
unoccupied) the house 

1st House 4 - 3 - 1 Benefic 

2nd House 3 - 1 - 2 Benefic 

3rd House 1 - - - 1 Neutral 

4th House - 1 I - - 1 Neutral 

5th House 3 - 3 - - Benefic 

~ 
6th House J - 1 - 2 Benefic 

7th House 3 - I 2 I - 1 Benefic 

8th House 2 - - - 2 Neutral 

9th House 1 - 1 - - Benefic 

lOth House 1 - - - 1 Neutral 

11th House 3 - 3 - - Benefic 
~ 

12th House 0 - 1 - 2 Bcnclic 

Here we have considered aspects only where the house is not occupied. Also, if 
there are both benefic and malefic influences on a house, its final nature will depend on 
the balance between such influences. A given number of benefic influences will cancel an 
equal number of malefic influences and vice versa. In the chart under consideration, no 
planet earns the status of a clear-cut malefic in the Saptavargas. There is, therefore, no 
house in the chart which is supposed to yield purely malefic results. The extent to which a 
given house would behave as benefic, in comparison to another one, would depend on 
the actual number ofbenefic influences operating upon the house. One may be tempted 
to consider the benefic and malefic nature of the different houses from the actual nature 
of the occupants or aspectors of a house, without determining the nature of planets from 
the Saptavargas. The use of Saptavarga, however, makes this exercise more accurate and 
reliable. It will be seen from the above that houses I ,5, II and to some extent 7 are 
particularly beneficial and strong in this horoscope. 



Timing of Events: The Dasha Scheme 

The Sudarshana Chakra must be employed to time the life events of a native. For 
this purpose, sage Parashara has given a method of working out the Sudarshana Chakra 
Dasha. In this system, each house, starting from the lagna, has a mahadasha (MD) of one 
year so that all the houses of the chart provide us a cycle of twelve years of MD. The first 
MD is that of the lagna, the second of the second house, and so on. After twelve years, 
another cycle of dashas begins from the lagna. A native may run several cycles of this 
dasha during his lifetime. The MD's in respect of the example chart are tabulated in Table 
XXX-3. 

Within each MD, there are twelve antardashas (AD's), each of a month's duration. 
The first AD starts from the house represented by the MD. Thus, within each MD, there is 
an AD represented by each of the twelve houses of the chart, starting from the MD and 
proceeding in the natural order. 

Each AD of a month's duration is further segmented into twelve pratyantardashas 
(PD's), each of a duration of two-and-a-half days, represented by the twelve houses 
starting from the house represented by the AD in question. 

We thus see here that the twelve houses of the Sudarshana Chakra have their MD's, 
AD's and PD's in order to enable the astrologer to make specific predictions in respect of 
each house of the chart and to time these events accurately. It will, however, be seen that 
twelve years is relatively a short period in the life of a native. Therefore, several cycles of 
similar dashas would operate within the lifetime of an individual. The life events, 
however, are not likely to exactly repeat themselves every twelve years. It is, therefore, 
essential that the Sudarshana dasha indicated here be studied along with the Vimshottari 
dasha as well as the Gochara (Transits) prevalent at that time. 



Table Ill : Cycles of Mahadasha: Each house has au MD duration of oue year 

MJI' Year oftife Ending year of MD 

Lagna 1, 13, 25, 37, 49, 61 1918, '30, '42, '54, 166, 78' 

2ud House 2, 14, 26, 38, 50, 62 1919, '31, '43, '55, '67, 79 

3rd House I 3, 15, 27, 39, 51, 63 1920, '32, '44, '56, '68, '80 

4th House 4, 16, 28, 40, 52, 64 1921, '33, '45, '57, '69, '81 

5th House 5, 17, 29, 41, 53, 65 1922, "J4  1 •4 6, ·)· s1  ·70 , ·s2 
6th House 6, 18, 30, 42, 54, 66 1923, '35, '47, '59, '71, '83 

7th House 7, 19, 31, 43, 55, 67 1924, '36, '48, '60, '72, 1984 
8th House 8, 20, 32, 44, 56 1925 ' '37 ' '49 ' '61 ' '73 
9th House 9, 21, 33, 45, 5i 1926, '38, '50, '62, 'JI 
lOth House 10, 22, 34, 46, 58 1927 ' '39 ' '51 ' '63 ' '?.5 

II th House 11, 23, 35, 47, 59 1928, '40, '52, '64, '1) 

12th House 12, 24, 36, 48, 60 1929 ' '41 ' '53 '65 
' ' '77 



Interpretation of Dash as: Some Principles 

Some important principles appropriate to the interpretation of dashas are being 
given here. These must be kept in mind while analysing the results from the Sudarshana 
Chakra. 
• The house whose dasha is in operation must be treated as the Iagna or the first house. 
For example, if it is the dasha of the fifth house, the fifth house should be considered as 
the lagna or the frrst house and the remaining houses considered from it accordingly, i.e., 
the sixth house is to be treated as the second house, the seventh as the third house, and so 
on. 
• After a span of twelve years, the MD cycle begins afresh from the lagna. 
• For a detailed assessment, not only should the house representing the MD be treated as 
lagna, but also the houses represented by a given AD or PD. These may be termed as the 
dash a lagnas. 
• Whenever the houses I, 4, 7, 10, 5, 9 and 8 from a dasha lagna are occupied by 
benefics, the year or the month or the days represented by that dasha are productive of 
beneficial results. 
• Any house that harbours only Rahu or only Ketu tends to suffer, and yields adverse 
results on! y. 
• A house occupied by several malefics also yields adverse results. 
• Benefics yield good results if they fall in houses other than 2 and 12. They are harmful 
if they occupy houses 2 and 12. 
• Malefics yield desirable results when they occupy houses 3, 6 and II. Elsewhere, they 
produce adverse results. 
• Since similar MD's, AD's and PD's will operate repeatedly (e.g., same MD every twelve 
years), the results indicated must be considered along with the results deciphered from an 
analysis of the Vimshottari dasha as well as Gochara. 
• While we have shown how benefic, malefic and neutral nature of houses is to be 
determined, it is important to also consider the natural beneficence or maleficence of 
planets while applying the above principles. 
• Sage Parashara advocates that one should confirm the Sudarshana Chakra results with 
those indicated by Ashtakavarga. If both the Sudarshana Chakra and Ashtakavarga 
indicate similar benefic or malefic results, these will definitely happen. If they vary, on! y 
mixed results will come to pass. 



Some Observations about our Example Chart 

In the chart under consideration, we have seen above that strongly benefic houses 
are the lagna, the fifth, the seventh and the eleventh houses. Houses two, six, nine and 
twelve are also benefic, though not strongly so. Houses three, four, eight and ten are 
neutral. There are no purely malefic houses in this chart. Jt is thus to be expected that the 
dashas of houses I ,5 ,7 and J 1 would prove particularly significant for the native. 

She got married on March 26, 1942 during the dasha of the lagna. This she 
managed despite a lot of controversy and paternal resistance against it. It was during her 
lagna dasha ending in November 1966 that she became the first woman Prime Minister of 
India in a power struggle that subjugated some of the more deserving claimants for the 
job. Her last phase of lagna dasha, in 1978, was a period of political wilderness and ill 
health, coinciding with the Vimshottari MD-AD of Saturn-Venus, one the lord of the 
eighth house and the other the afflicted occupant of the sixth house. 

The dasha of her seventh, a maraka, house was adverse for her close relations and 
for her own self. She lost her mother in 1936. In September 1960, she lost her husband. 
Her own death too occurred in her seventh house dasha, on October 31, 1984. 

In 1964, during the dasha of her eleventh house, she was inducted into the union 
cabinet as the Minister for Information and Broadcasting, after the death of her father. 
This was a highly significant landmark in her political career. During her fifth house 
dasha in 1970, she displayed tremendous strength and managed to sideline some of the 
powerful political adversaries of hers. 

In conclusion, we find that the Sudarshana Chakra of Parashara is an excellent 
astrological tool that should be used far more extensively than it has been used in the 
past. It takes into consideration the natal lagna (the physical body), the Chandra lagna 
(the mind; the mother; also the genetic link) and the Surya lagna (the soul; the father; the 
ancestors). It thus provides a comprehensive assessment of a man's physical, mental and 
spiritual make up. Jt must be employed along with the Vimshottari dasha, Gochara as well 
as Astakavaraga in order to obtain accurate results. 



... xxxu ... 
Summary 

At the end of the cycle, 0 Kaunteya, all beings pass into nature 
which is My own; and at the beginning of the next cycle, I send 
them forth. 

Gita FXf7 

Chapter I is an introduction to the subject of astrology. The qualifications of an astrologer 
as prescribed by the great Varahamihira have been highlighted. The relation of astrology 
to the concepts of science, genetics and Karma has been discussed. 
Chapter II deals with elementary concepts of astronomy as applied to astrology. It 
concerns itself with an understanding of the zodiac, the rashis and nakshatras, the 
geocentric astronomical framework, the rising and setting of signs, the concept of sidereal 
time, the precession of the equinoxes, and the fixed and the movable zodiacs. Divisions 
of time and of circle have been given. Some functions of the planets have been 
mentioned. 
Chapter III deals with those areas of astronomy which are a characteristic of the 
Panchanga or the Indian almanac. Here, the Tithis, Vaaras, Nakshatras, Yogas and 
Karanas have been described. A brief mention has been made of the astronomical 
characteristics of the various planets. 
Chapter IV is based on a piece of teaching which the sage Parashara imparted to his 
disciple Maitreya. The account has been taken from the Vishnu Purana, and it sheds 
interesting light on the ancient Indian method of teaching. This chapter contains 
information about the Jupiterian cycle of sixty years. A clue given by Parashara has been 
used to determine the time when the Vishnu Purana must have been written. 
Chapter V gives important details about signs, houses and planets as relevant to Vedic 
astrology. This information is essential in order to understand the application of 
principles of Vedic astrology. 
Chapter VI deals with the standard astrological principles which help determine the 
benefic or malefic nature of planets. Clues have been given about some special adverse 
factors which need attention in horoscopic analysis. 
All the various aspects of life on earth are signified by the planets, the signs and the 
twelve houses of the horoscope. Such significations can be gleaned from a study of 
Chapter VII. 
Chapter VIII explains the method of determining the all-important lagna or the 
ascendant, as also the cusps of various houses of the horoscope. Methods of working out 



the ascendant for a foreign birth or for a birth at a southern latitude have been described. 
The ancient Indian method of calculating the cusp of the ascendant has also been 
indicated. 
Chapter IX deals with the next important step of determining the longitudes of planets. 
This chapter as well as the preceding one help cast a basic horoscopic chart. 
Chapter X gives information about the sixteen types of subtle divisions which must be 
understood in order to make a successful use of astrology. 
Chapter XI concerns itself with a brief account of the sub-planets which have some 
specific uses in Vedic astrology. They offer a very fertile area for astrological research. 
Chapter XII deals with certain specific planetary states which have some secret uses in 
Vedic astrology. These too are an area for intensive research. 
Planets produce their results depending upon their strengthor weakness in a horoscopic 
chart. Chapter XIII briefly deals with the techniques involved in determining the strength 
of planets. 
Chapter XIV discuses the method of working out the dashas or planetary operational 
periods. Two of the most important dasha systems, the Vimshottari and the Yogini, have 
been described. These are meant for determining the timing of occurrence of an event. 
Chapter XV is concerned with the interpretation of the most widely used Vimshottari 
dasha. The principles of application of this dasha upto the level of the sub-sub-period, 
primarily according to the dicta of sage Parashara, have been described. 
In Chapter XVI are described the principles of Balarishta (i.e., affliction to the new born) 
and Arishta-Bhanga (i.e., cancellation of affliction). These must be understood clearly. 
Examples have been given to explain the underlying principles. 
Chapter XVII describes the results of placement of the lords of different houses in the 
various houses according primarily to the dicta of sage Parashara. 
Chapter XVIII describes the results of placement of different planets in different houses 
of the horoscope. Also described in this chapter are the results of placement of different 
planets in different houses considered from the Moon. 
Chapter XIX describes the results of placement of different planets in different signs. Also 
described here are the results produced by the aspect of planets on planets in different 
signs. An understanding of this chapter, along with the preceding two chapters as well as 
the chapter on the interpretation of the dashas, forms the back-bone of successful 
astrological predictions. 
Chapter XX deals with special types of yo gas called as the Nabhasa Yogas. These yo gas 
indicate the dominant pattern of a native's life. Their results are felt throughout one's life 
and do not depend upon the cycles of dashas. 
Chapter XXI describes those yogas which are based on the ownership of different houses 
by the planets. Raja yogas, Dhana yogas, Arishta yogas and Parivartana yogas find a 
place in this chapter. 
Chapter XXll deals with some specific and miscellaneous yo gas. The Pancha-
Mahapurusha yogas, yogas based on the Moon and the Sun, and some important diverse 



yogas have been discussed here. A brief account of the yogas leading to sanyasa or 
renunciation has also been included here. 
Chapter XXIII indicates the methods of working out Alpayu, Madhyayu and Poomayu in 
a given chart. Methods of calculating longevity by mathematical means have been 
described. The lack of reliability of the mathematical methods in determining the length 
of life has been indicated. 
Chapter XXIV deals with medical astrology. Astrological factors that indicate sound and 
unsound health have been outlined. The role of adverse dasha periods in causing disease 
has been highlighted. 
Chapter XXV is devoted to the principles of Varshaphaia or the Vedic annual horoscopic 
chart. The method of constructing the annual chart, and its utility, have been dealt with in 
brief. 
Chapter XXVI discusses the principles of Muhurta or the astrology of electing 
appropriate moments for commencing various undertakings. The role of the five 
constituents of the Panchanga, and of the lagna as well as of Ashtakavarga, in picking up 
the right moment for undertaking a venture has been dealt with. 
Chapter XXVII deals with the traditional method of matching of horoscopes for marital 
purposes. This method involves the Ashtakoota or the eight Kootas, which are the eight 
points to be considered for matching of charts. It has been suggested that this method be 
supplemented with a more through study of charts to match them for the modern social 
ambience. 
In Chapter XXVIII, the elementary principles governing the Prashna or horary astrology 
have been discussed. The importance of the moment a question is put is the basis of this 
branch ofVedic astrology. 
Chapter XXIX deals with the principles of Gochara or planetary transits. The importance 
of analysing the Gochara from the Moon as well as the lagna has been indicated. This is 
an important adjunct to the dasha system in accurate timing of the events. 
Chapter XXX deals with a very unique tool of Vedic astrology known as the 
Ashtakavarga system. While this system involves a lot of labour, and attention to detail as 
well as accuracy, it yields brilliant results when applied judiciously to horoscopic charts. 
Chapter XXXI deals with a highly useful predictive tool of Parashara, the Sudarshana 
Chakra, which allows a composite analysis of the horoscope from three cardinal points, 
viz., the lagna, the Moon and the Sun. The principles of chart analysis from the 
Sudarshana Chakra have been elucidated. The employment of the Sudarshana Chakra 
dasha allows accurate timing of events on a year to year, month to month and day to day 
basis. The importance of integrating the Sudarshan Chakra dasha with Vimshottari dasha 
and Gochara has been highlighted.