E D U C A T I O N A L  I N S I G H T

 n the Hindu view, the planets are not mere celestial bodies circling the Sun. 
CATIO

Jyotisha, Hindu Astrology IThey are also divine beings—shown here as they were positioned on the fi rst 
morning of the current millennium. Each is like a prism, conveying subtle en-

S
ergy from the far galaxies, thus impacting man’s affairs on Earth according to I T

G H

its unique nature and location in the sky. The ancient science of space and time that 
How the Science of Light Can Help You in Daily Life understands and maps this infl uence is called jyotisha (literally “science of light”) 
By Pandit Vamadeva Shastri or Hindu astrology.  We explore that system of knowledge in this Educational Insight.

Sani (Saturn) in Aries

Rahu in Cancer

Ketu in Capricorn

Chandra (the Moon) in Libra

Brihaspati (Jupiter) in Aries
Mangala (Mars) in Aquarius

Surya (Sun) in Sagittarius

Uranus in Capricorn
The millenial sky: This illustration shows the 
position of the nine celestial bodies honored 

Budha (Mercury) in Scorpio in Hindu astrology as they were positioned on 
January 1, 2000, the start of the new millenium

Shukra (Venus) 
Pluto in Scorpio in Sagittarius

Neptune in Capricorn

a .  manivel

EDU

S

NAL

I N



It’s About Time business success. These concerns are not absent in the East, but larger awareness beyond our little world, connecting us to 
concerns dominate. Astrology in India is about auspiciousness, about the canopy above, expanding perception beyond the 
connections, about sacred timing and being in a fl ow with the ebb narrow sliver of time in which we live by bringing 

An Introduction by the Editor and tide of divine forces. past lives and actions into the now. You could say 
Astrology is a part of Vedic self-understanding. We look to the that astrologers tell time with a bigger watch.

stars to see ourselves better, to discover the mysteries that lie all The genuine astrologer is, in a sense, a time navi-
elieving nothing, the skeptic is blind; believing ev- about us and within us. In rita dharma, that heavenly cosmic orderli- gator. He teaches that time is not all colorless and 

B erything, the naif is lame. Somewhere between the two ness, stars are more than massive conglomerates of molecules or fi ery neutral, the same in all directions. Time has its ed-
lies the lauded land of viveka, discrimination, which nei- furnaces fl eeting afar. They are entities, potent presences that affect dies, its waxing and waning, its preferential ways—
ther doubts every inexplicable phenomenon nor swallows us despite their distance. There are, of course, many Hindus today and in that sense is much like the oceans. No ship’s 

every unexamined statement. In this issue who pooh-pooh such notions. “Stuff and captain worth his hardtack would consider the sea 
we explore the uncanny Vedic technology of nonsense,” they will cry, “What thought- a uniform body of water, everywhere equal and in-
jyotisha, that hoary knowledge, derived from ful person can accept that stars, so remote, different to his passage. No, the sea is alive with idle 
secondary Vedic texts, which embraces both infl uence life on Earth?” doldrums and treacherous tempests, and, yes, dan-
astronomy and astrology. It’s about time. But what thoughtful person, asks the gers worthy of anticipation.

President Ronald Reagan confounded the astrologer, would deny the powerful tides To the astrologer, time is like that sea, with moods 
White House staff and embarrassed aides dragged across our planet by a faraway and forces, some propelling us swiftly forward, oth-
by having his itinerary and major meetings moon, or gainsay the not-so-subtle solar ers opposing our well-plotted progress. How fool-
scheduled in consultation with his wife’s forces that are the very stuff of life here? hardy the seaman who keeps his canvas unfurled 
astrologer in California. Scoffing staffers “Ah, but go out another few thousand light in a storm or stows his sails when the good winds 
counted it pure silliness; others thought it years and tell us what petty influences blow. Time is a kind of moral wind, blowing now 
merely impolitic of him, maybe because persist,” our doubter might challenge. The this way, now that. As a ship’s captain heeds the 
of the implication that he wasn’t totally in jyotishi (Vedic astrologer), realizing the ba- chart reckoned by his navigator as to course, winds 
charge or that a Christian would so publicly sic East/West difference in world views, and tides, so our life’s journey benefi ts from peri-
propound such things. attempts to help the skeptic understand odically examining another chart, our astrologer’s 

Mr. Reagan is not a lone heretic. Queen the Hindu perspective. “In Eastern thought, appraisal of protean time’s patterned fl ow.
Elizabeth I, a Virgo, consulted the stars. particularly Hinduism, we conceive of all Those who still doubt are members of a hoary 
Galileo, the Italian mathematician and as- existence—including the stars and plan- club. Yogaswami of Jaffna had the perfect prescrip-
tronomer, cast charts on the side, as did the ets—not as being ‘out there,’ but rather ‘in tion for them, one that sets aside all of the good 
German celestial scientist Johannes Kepler. Britain’s Princess Diane here’—within the consciousness of each one of us. In other words, versus bad, will versus fate kerfuffl e: “All times are 
followed the stars, and many Hollywood stars do the same. Ditto consciousness encompasses all of creation. The ‘outside’ and ‘inside’ auspicious for the pure Siva bhaktar.”
with Carl Jung and American millionaire J.P. Morgan. A 2013 Harris are mirror images, and the essential nature of the cosmos is not that 
Poll concluded that 29 percent of Americans (and nearly half of 18- of multitudinous distinctions but rather the many-faceted expres- Engaging energies: (right) A Balinese Hindu 
to 24-year-olds) believe in or follow astrology. By contrast, 92 percent sion of a one unifi ed Reality. Thus we do not follow the mechanistic, astrologer uses a mobile device to check the 
of the Chinese public think horoscopes are nonsense. externalized approach typical of Western thought.” compatibility of his brother and a potential spouse 

Like so many other things, astrology in the West is about personal The astrologer is something of a tribal shaman. Ideally, he or she is who are getting acquainted over tea and pastries; 
things—about me and mine, my spiritual progress, my love life and the one among us with special insight, with a wider vision that lifts (left) a yantra representing Surya, the Sun

Working with Our Karmic Code and changes, to modify the in uence by their 
e ort and their willingness. When I give a read-
ing, I say, ‘By using the willpower, by gaining the 

hilosophically, Hindu astrology re ects the law of karma, through the heavens and the atmosphere before reaching Earth, grace of God or guru, we can change everything.’ 

 P which includes both free will and an aspect of predeter- taking on heavier sheaths of material density. It can only take birth Otherwise, people misunderstand astrology by 
mination, or fate. Predetermination means our present in the physical plane at a time karmically in accord with its nature thinking ‘Oh, it is in the stars.’ It is in the stars 

condition is the result of our past actions from previous lives; free and destiny. The birth chart represents the seed pattern of its life; only for those people who do not want to take 
will means we shape our future by our present actions—how we how it develops depends upon environment as well. responsibility for their life. Jyotisha is a science 
respond to the challenges. The birth chart represents a person’s Sam Geppi o ers: “This karmic energy points to the lessons that of self-revelation. Through jyotisha, one begins to 
karmic code, the samskaras with which he or she is born, imprint- need to be learned in that lifetime. For example, a person who understand one’s own nature; and one of the fun-
ed on the subtle or astral body. This code is analogous to the ge- needs to work through anger problems in this lifetime will inherit damental rules of spirituality is self-acceptance. 
netic code that outlines the main potentials of the physical body. a body, mind and upbringing that will challenge them to confront Jyotisha tells you what you really are, and that 
The birth chart indicates the main potentials of our entire life. their anger and hopefully transcend it. In the case of anger, the el- understanding enables a person to accept. That 

From an astrologer’s point of view, the birth chart is the most ement of  re will likely predominate. An astrological chart reveals moment of acceptance is the beginning of spirituality. As long as made during both periods. Both negative and positive times are, 
important document we have in life. Yet, like the genetic code, it this. It is a portrait of the soul’s karma and the pattern of illusion we don’t accept the outer nature, we cannot transcend to the in- in fact, positive when used wisely. A competent jyotisha shastri 
is written in a mathematical language that requires decoding by a in which we may become trapped.…This is maya, the illusion that ner nature.” is of help in forecasting the future as to when times will come 
trained expert, and it calls for careful examination over time to un- we are merely an acting, mind/body experience.” Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami advised: “When unfavorable along when advancements can be made. A positive mental atti-
fold its dynamic secrets. K.N. Rao observed, “A horoscope re ects Chakrapani D. Ullal, widely honored as the father of Vedic astrol- times arise which have to be lived through (as they all too frequent- tude should be held during all the ups and downs that are predi-
the allotment of karmas of previous lives. We are all getting the ogy in the West, observed, “Astrology is a science of indications ly do), we do not carp or cringe, but look at these as most excellent cated to happen. Be as the traveler in a 747 jet,  ying high over 
results of our karma, but not all of our karma.” only, it is not fatalistic. Therefore, people should have the idea periods for meditation and sadhana rather than worldly activities. the cities, rather than a pedestrian wandering the streets below.”

According to the Vedas, when a soul takes birth, it descends that they have the power, if they want to, to bring amendments Just the reverse for the positive periods. Spiritual progress can be 

40 hinduism today october/november/december,  2015 october/november/december,  2015  hinduism today 41

a .  manivel



Cosmic Consciousness
strology is the science of fathoming the infl uence when its validity is questioned by the scientifi c community. The ev-

A of the sun, moon, planets and stars upon living creatures. er-popular sun signs in newspapers reveal this undying interest. 
In Sanskrit it is called jyotisha, which means the “science Jyotisha remains an important facet of Hindu spiritual, religious 
of light”—specifi cally, “Vedanga Jyotisha,” the astrologi- and social practice, not only in India but worldwide, throughout the 

cal limb of the Vedas, said to be the very eye of the Vedas. Hindu diaspora. It is widely used by Hindus, from common villagers 
Jyotisha is a system of understand- to the sophisticated urban elite. It is an 

ing how our lives and our karmas relate important component of temple wor-
to the movements of the cosmos, which ship, pilgrimages and yoga practices. It 
is cognized as a single greater organism. is avidly used for guiding family life, 
Under jyotisha is included astronomy, me- business and career, physical health 
teorology and forms of divination, includ- and psychological well being. Jyotisha 
ing palmistry, the reading of omens, svara is famously employed by politicians to 
(reading the breath) and various oracles. aid them in winning elections.

Like yoga, jyotisha is a super science that Hindus follow a special sacred yearly 
links us with the cosmic intelligence be- astrological calendar, called panchan-
hind nature. Its fi rst message is that we are gam, for the right timing of all actions. 
one with the Universal Being. New discov- India has many notable astrological 
eries in quantum physics demonstrate the and planetary temples, and new ones 
interrelatedness of the universe, showing are coming up as astrology grows once 
subtle levels of immediate interaction even more in popularity. Astrological icons 
at great distances of time and space. Jyoti- are found in Hindu temples of all types. 
sha is an integral aspect of the traditional In South Indian temples, an altar of 
Vedic sciences, along with ayurveda, vastu astrological Deities, called the nava-
and yoga, all of which are usually used grahas (“nine planets”), is placed in the 
together. corner of the central courtyard. After doing the clockwise perambu-

How can the stars and planets infl uence events on Earth? Obvious- lation around the Deity sanctum, devotees perform a second walk 
ly the Sun is the basis of all life. According to the Vedas, it also proj- around the planetary Deities’ shrine.
ects a force of intelligence and spirituality. The Moon is important to Many yogis and sages have been astrologers or written on astrol-
all creatures and governs the fertility cycles of animals. In the Vedic ogy. This includes modern fi gures like Sri Aurobindo, Ganapati Muni, 
system it rules the emotional nature. It is well known that the large Paramahamsa Yogananda and his guru Sri Yukteswar, Sivananda 
magnetic and gravitational fi elds of the planets affect the Earth phys- Murty, Swami Dayananda (Arsha Vidya Gurukulam) and historic fi g-
ically. That they would have subtler infl uences as well is not illogical. ures like Madhva, Bhishma, Vashishta, Parashara, Bhrigu and others. 

Astrology is common in one form or another in all cultures, though Newborns are traditionally named based on their jyotisha charts 
in India it has had the widest and freest development, from the most 
ancient period to the present day. Ancient Greece and Rome used 
astrology extensively, as did Europe to the eighteenth century, even Honoring the planets: (clockwise from right): A chamber in an 
though it was often banned by the church. We could say that the Andhra Pradesh temple enshrining the nine planets in granite, with 
type of astrology used by a culture refl ects its understanding of the Siva behind in the form of Dakshinamurti; an artistic rendering 
universe, particularly the subtle and spiritual infl uences guiding our of Earth circled by the celestial bodies of astrology; a yantra of the 
lives. Curiously, modern cultures continue to employ astrology even Mahamrityunjaya mantra

Remedial Measures measures can help with karmic obstacles, in-
cluding penance, pilgrimage, bhakti, praying Each planet also has a name mantra (e.g., Om Sum Suryaya Na- more time on the part of the person. Each planet has a particu-
for divine intervention, mantras and yantras, mah for the Sun) and a set of special names, 108 or 1,008, that lar gemstone: ruby for the Sun, pearl for the Moon, red coral for 

yotisha does not leave us helpless before the performing rituals, seva and charity. Plane- are chanted to propitiate it. Each planet has a Vedic verse and a Mars, emerald for Mercury, etc. High quality gemstones can be 

J onslaughts of karma. It provides practical ways tary e ects can be softened through special Puranic verse used in its worship. Chants to the planets can be expensive. Less costly substitutes, though less e ective, are al-
of dealing with them. Sa dhana invariably helps disciplines such as feeding crows (Saturn) or done singly or in combination (depending upon the recommenda- lowed. Gemstones should be chosen with care and preferably with 

neutralize the e ects of a “bad chart.” Ultimately, in planting trees (Jupiter). Remedial measures tion of one’s teacher) while meditating on a yantra and an image a good astrologer’s approval. They should be properly energized 
fact, there is no such thing. A chart that does not are routinely recommended in Vedic, yogic, of the Deity or related Deities. Scriptural verses to the Deities can with mantras and rituals to function in the best possible manner. 
portend worldly bene ts, such as wealth or mar- tantric and ayurvedic texts. also be recited. For example, Vaishnavas prescribe the Santana Go- Having said all that, sometimes it is better to try to learn from 
riage, is likely to be good spiritually. “A  ictions” to The main remedies are ritual and mantra. pala Stotra, to Krishna, for couples whose charts are unfavorable di  cult karmas rather than trying to avoid or change them 
home, family, marriage and money are often neces- Propitiating the planets is an integral part of for bearing children. The Mahamrityunjaya Mantra, to Lord Siva, is through remedial measures. We cannot buy o  the planets or our 
sary for a person to renounce the world and devote all Hindu rites. Many temples, particularly in used to counter the in uences of Mars and Saturn. karma merely by putting on expensive gems or paying someone 
himself to spiritual practices. A  ictions in the area of health can the South of India, have a shrine with murtis of all nine planets (na- Hindus commonly wear gemstones to balance negative and else to take care of our life. Humility and devotion should be the 
bene t from spiritual practices like mantra japa. While one career vagraha). You can worship them and even employ temple priests promote positive in uences. Some but not all astrologers pre- basis of all remedial measures, along with a willingness to work on 
may not be favorable for success, another may be. Many remedial to perform special planetary pujas for you. scribe gemstones. Mantras and rituals are preferable but require ourselves. Some things just can’t be changed or avoided.

42 hinduism today october/november/december,  2015 october/november/december,  2015  hinduism today 43

shutterstock

devalayam ramireddy.y  (wikimediacommons)



which provide optional syllables, based on the nakshatra, to begin That is the main text of Vedic astrology used today, containing all 
the child’s name. Astrological concepts are pervasive in the organiza- the essential features of the system. Many South Indian astrologers, 
tion of the calendar and holidays, as well as in areas of life such as however, use the Brihat Jataka and Brihat Samhita of Varaha Mihira, 
the timing of marriage, opening a new business or moving into a new which are similar to Parashara’s overall indications.
home. Hindu priests and teachers are routinely trained in astrology, 
among other Vedic disciplines. Introduced as an elective study at the Antiquity
university level in India in 2003, Vedic astrology manages to retain a Evidence indicates that jyotisha goes back to ancient times. The Kali 
position among the sciences in modern India. There is a movement Yuga calendar, which begins in 3100bce, is well known. Greeks in 
in progress to establish a national Vedic university to teach astrology the fourth century bce wrote of an Indian calendar relative to ancient 
together with the study of tantra, mantra and yoga. All this despite king lists with a beginning date of 6700bce (mentioned by Mega-
complaints by some scientists. sthenes in his Indika). The nakshatras (asterisms) are mentioned in 

From Kerala in the South to the Himalayas in the North, there is an the Rig Veda and other Vedic texts, with a nakshatra Sukta noted in 
astounding variety of profound astrological approaches, systems and the Taittiriya Brahmana (I.1.2). Nakshatra positions relative to equi-
techniques, including different ways of designing the birth chart. nox and solstice points aid in the dating of Vedic texts. The Atharva 

Veda (XIX.7) contains a full listing of the nakshatras, starting with 
A Mystical Science Krittika as the point of the vernal equinox and the solstice in Magha 
How did the ancient Hindu rishis and yogis arrive at the knowledge nakshatra, or early Leo, providing a date of around 2000bce. There 
of astrology? By the same means that all the other Vedic and yo- are references of equinoxes in Rohini (late Taurus, ca. 3000bce), Mri-
gic systems of knowledge arose, and by which they are studied to- gashira (Orion/Gemini ca. 4000bce), and yet earlier.
day. Those methods include meditation and samadhi, starting with The Rig Veda (I.164.48) refers to a twelvefold wheel of heaven with 
dharana or samyama, on the Sun, Moon, planets and stars. Another 360 spokes, showing that a zodiac of 360 degrees was well known in 
means is communion with planetary Deities, who can speak to us Vedic times. In verse I.155.6, Lord Vishnu is said to have four times 
and disclose their nature and infl uences. Another is reason-based ninety, or 360, names, suggesting a divine name for each degree of the 
thinking in which we draw connections between phenomena at cos- zodiac. The Satapatha Brahmana (X.5.4.5) refers to a 720-fold zodiac 
mic and individual levels. Finally, centuries of experience, study and divided by upa-nakshatras, or sub-asterisms, showing a detailed 
communication among astrologers have helped turn intuition into mathematical observation of the heavens.
science. Rahu and Ketu, the lunar nodes that foreshadow eclipses, are also 

Intuition continues to play a key role. Chakrapani explained, “A mentioned in Vedic texts. The planets are mentioned by group or in-
dedicated Vedic astrologer will naturally develop a powerful sense dividually. For example, in Aitareya Brahmana XIII.10, we fi nd refer-
of intuition and be able to connect with divine sources of guidance, ence to the birth of Venus (Bhrigu) and Jupiter (Brihaspati), and their 
including devas, gurus and advanced souls. This is one of the fruits of relation to the two main rishi families, the Bhrigus and Angirasas, 
an astrological practice rooted in meditation and devotion, going far showing a planetary connection with the sages. 
beyond what can be discovered through mere astrological techniques 
and calculations. As the astrologer develops vak shakti, the power of A Comparison with Western Astrology
speech, his statements can become infallible.” Like its Western (or Hellenistic) counterpart, jyotisha employs a sys-

Eighteen traditional systems (siddhantas) are mentioned in Vedic tem of planets, signs, houses and aspects. However, it relies on the 
astrology, some bearing the names of the greatest sages of Hindu- sidereal zodiac for its calculations, which differs from the tropical India’s star gazers: (above) The 18th-century Jantar 
ism. Unfortunately, none of their texts has survived intact. Five of the zodiac used in Western astrology, in that an ayanamsa adjustment is Mantar Observatory in Jaipur, India; (right) visitors view 
eighteen were, however, summarized by Varaha  Mihira—perhaps made for the gradual precession of the vernal equinox. This puts Hin- an instrument used to record the azimuth of celestial 
the greatest astrologer of classical India—in his Pancha Siddhan tika, du astrological calculations in line with the fi xed stars and removes it bodies, one of the facility’s 19 main astronomical 
namely, Pitamaha (or Bhishma), Vashishta, Paulisha, Romaka and from the criticism of modern astronomy that astrological signs are no instruments. This ranks among the world’s most 
Surya. Of these, only the Surya Siddhanta has survived, and that in longer astronomically accurate. The main ayanamsa currently used is impressive collections of pre-telescopic masonry 
a later form. In addition, we have the work of Rishi Parashara, which around 24 degrees less than positions in the tropical zodiac, causing instruments and still functions perfectly; (below) a 
has endured in expanded form as the Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra. most planetary positions to go back one sign from the Western to the mandala representing the navagrahas, “nine planets.”

Choosing & Working with a Jyotisha Shastri interact with on a regular basis. can help navigate life’s challenges. The right use of jyo-
The competent astrologer is not a psychic with tisha alleviates what is perhaps the greatest fear for 

a crystal ball. Time, e ort and examination of a human beings—uncertainty and anxiety about 
o to astrologers known to have good reputations for their chart, or who declare that they can magically solve your problems number of factors are needed to reach conclu- the future. It helps us con dently navigate 

G interpretations, predictions and spiritual insight, and who through mantras done by them, gems they sell to you or rituals sions as to what is likely to happen to you or through the confusing waves of  prarabdha 
are recommended by people you know and respect, par- they perform for you, particularly if these are expensive and are what you should do in any given area. As- karma, remaining aware of our outer destiny 

ticularly in the Hindu and yoga communities. An astrologer should done at a distance. trological counseling must have an element and our timeless inner Self as well.
follow a strict ethical regimen in the pursuit of dharma. He should It is best to look upon an astrologer like a counselor, doctor or of spirituality and should direct us to higher Most Vedic astrologers, particularly in the 
begin and end his work with mantra, meditation or worship and therapist. We don’t expect one session to be enough. An astrolo- goals in life, not simply encourage or direct West, charge for their work, which is the ba-
live and work in a sancti ed environment. He must maintain a ger may need an hour or more to examine the birth chart before the ful llment of worldly desires. sis of their livelihood, and they deserve com-
good sense of humor and humility and give counseling that is even seeing a client. Initial readings with the individual may take Once you have found a good astrologer, it is parable compensation as for any professional 
bene cial, not harmful to the client, and not fatalistic in nature. over an hour and require several follow-up sessions. Focusing on best to maintain an ongoing relationship with consultant. Take care to compensate the astrol-

Beware of those who claim to give quick, fantastic and infallible particular time periods or speci c issues may require additional him, like a close friend or advisor. Like a loving oger appropriately. Without the proper dakshina 
predictions, particularly without any detailed examination of your research and analysis. It is best to choose an astrologer you can mother, father, guru or wise friend, a good astrologer or o ering, advice given may not prove e ective.

44 hinduism today october/november/december,  2015 october/november/december,  2015  hinduism today 45

museumsrajasthan

shutterstock



Hindu chart. This naturally results in a very different reading. It can of The Astrological Magazine and the Indian Council of Astrological 
be confusing for those accustomed to their Western chart, particu- Sciences. His son and daughter, Niranjan Bapu and Gayatri Vasudev, Astrology for You 
larly for the Sun sign, so emphasized in Western astrology. An Aries continue in his work. 
in Western astrology might be a Pisces according to jyotisha. India has many important astrological organizations. The Indian here are five primary uses of jyotisha, 

An additional 27-fold division of the zodiac by nakshatras is used Council of Astrological Sciences (ICAS) holds regular classes in major T which relate to the main goals of human life: 1) 
in jyotisha. Personality traits are read more through the nakshatra of cities throughout the country. The Institute of Astrology, founded by kama: family and relationship issues such as 
the Moon (birth star) than by the Sun sign. The birth star is used for K.N. Rao at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan in New Delhi, offers a sophis- marriage compatibility, timing of children and 
naming a person, for determining optimum timing of rituals, and for ticated course to train competent astrologers. Vaughn Paul Manley, domestic happiness; 2) artha: help with fi nances, busi-
astrological forecasting. Nakshatra positions of planets are examined who studied there, writes: “Astrology may still have a ways to go in ness and investments; 3) dharma: determination of career 
in the birth chart as well. order to become recognized as a valid science and academic sub- and vocation; 4) moksha: guidance in spiritual life and for 

Jyotisha rests upon a complex system of calculations that takes into ject. But, without a doubt, K.N. Rao and the faculty and students of cosmic and self-knowledge; and 5) arogya: physical and 
consideration a massive amount of data about planetary and stellar Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan are making a significant contribution to- mental health, which is the foundation of the fi rst four.
infl uences, including the mathematical and geometrical relationships wards this end. Arguably his school has produced the fi nest repli- In addition, there are four main applications: 1) Hora or 
between heavenly bodies. A jyotishi must be able to produce the ra- cable, scientifi c research on astrology today. It is setting an example jataka examines individual birth charts. This is the main 
tionale behind his determinations; he cannot rely on speculation or for other institutions by teaching astrology with a high degree of aca- approach that we consider for personal potentials and 
intuition alone. Traditional Hindu astrology does not usually use the demic e xcellence. ” well-being. 2) Mundane astrology examines the charts 
newly discovered outer planets (Uranus and Neptune) or Pluto; but it In recent decades Vedic astrology has gone global, along with of nations and political leaders to predict social and po-
affords special importance to Rahu and Ketu, the lunar nodes, which yoga, Vedanta, vastu and ayurveda. Many non-Hindus and Western litical events. It it also used to predict weather and earth-
refl ect subtle infl uences. Hindus are taking up the science and using it in a regular manner quakes. 3) Prashna (“question”) astrology addresses spe-

Jyotisha includes nuanced sub-systems of interpretation and pre- to improve their lives. Hindu-based groups that have promoted it in- cifi c questions—at both individual and collective levels. 
diction, including numerous divisional charts, several systems of da- clude the TM movement, the Krishna movement (ISKCON), Sivana- 4) Muhurta (“moment”) chooses favorable times for all 
shas, or planetary periods, and other factors like ashtakavarga and nda, Self Realization Fellowship (SRF), Arsha Vidya Gurukulam and types of action, mundane and spiritual, individual or col-
muhurta. It determines signs, houses and planetary aspects differ- many others. Jyotisha services are now common in yoga centers and lective. Hindu holy days, for example, are determined by 
ently than Western astrology and has a sophisticated system of yogas, ashrams. Various Hindu/Vedic astrology organizations have arisen, calculations based on muhurta as recorded in the Hindu 
or planetary combinations. including the Council of Vedic Astrology (CVA), the American Col- calendar (panchangam).

The Indian system is well known for its understanding of longer lege of Vedic Astrology (ACVA) and the British Association of Vedic 
cosmic cycles, or yugas. It begins with sixty-year cycles refl ecting the Astrology (BAVA). Jyotisha is highly popular in Russia, perhaps even How Might I Benefi t from Jyotisha?
movements of Jupiter and Saturn, extends to 3,600-year cycles, and more so than in the US. Many ayurvedic groups include it in their Astrology can be of tremendous benefi t. It clarifi es our 
ultimately dates the universe at billions of billions of years. As there curriculum. nature, destiny and karma, revealing our svadharma 
are several levels of these cycles, there is still some debate on exactly Most traditional jyotisha texts were composed in a medieval Hin- (“own” or “unique path”), so that we know how to pursue 
where we stand in all of these presently. du society. Vocations and other aspects of life have evolved radically our life’s highest purpose. It helps us deal with the limita-

since that time. For dealing with modern society, planetary influ- tions of destiny that are present in every life. It shows us 
Vedic Astrology Today ences must be reinterpreted accordingly. Hindu astrologers today are how to optimize our hidden potentials. It gives us the key 
With the availability of computers to streamline calculations and looking at how modern inclinations and professions can be viewed to right timing of actions. And it helps us understand the 
the many new books coming out, jyotisha is enjoying a renaissance through the chart. fundamental laws and patterns of the universe.
and expansion that is likely to continue for decades. Dr. BV Raman Chakrapani observed, “Western Vedic astrologers have done a 
was the main architect of the revival of jyotisha in modern India in lot for the advancement of Vedic astrology in recent years, through 
the twentieth century, bringing the ancient science into a modern books, trainings, consultations and conferences. They have put Ve-
English medium. He was instrumental in its development in the dic astrology into an understandable, contemporary English idiom. Cosmic Divinities: (left) Lord Surya, the Deity of the 
West as well, taking several important trips to the US and inspir- They have made Vedic astrology in the West a respected practice and Sun, seated on a throne with the mudra of blessing; 
ing a new generation of jyotishis there. Dr. Raman was the founder branch of knowledge. The science has gained more respect in India.” (below left) a yantra representing Saturn 

Misuse of Astrology just as of medicine, but some can be expensive, such as certain astrologer seeking to avoid karmic responsibility in life, 
gemstones and elaborate rituals. While these may be helpful, which is the opposite of what astrology is meant to teach 

some astrologers intimidate the client into feel- us, then we can easily fall prey to misleading schemes.
yotisha is a sacred science of reading our ing they must have these expensive measures remedial measures. Often the rituals they recommend are done at Astrology should be part of a spiritual path of controlling the 

J karma, which makes it powerful and po- or their lives will be ruined. This is not unlike a a distance, without the person being there, which is usually rec- mind and reducing desire, a way of self-knowledge, not a means 
tentially intimidating. We would all like to doctor who recommends medical cures that are ommended for successful rituals. Astrologers who are improperly of ego enhancement for either the astrologer or the client. Then 

improve our karma, promote the ful llment of burdensome to his patient. or inadequately trained may simply give bad advice, which can it can work magic—the magic of higher consciousness, not the 
our desires and remove life’s di  culties. Most In India there are so-called tantric guides have a negative impact on the lives of their clients, much like a magic of quick worldly bene ts.
people go to astrologers primarily hoping for who utilize astrology and other occult and wrong diagnosis and treatment in medicine. Some, particularly Chakrapani o ers this advice: “When a person values astrology 
this, not necessarily seeking deeper spiritual spiritual practices. Some are genuine and pro- new astrologers, may put too much con dence on mechanical not just as a profession, but as a knowledge, as a wisdom, as a 
and karmic guidance, which is what a good as- vide good advice. But there are charlatans as techniques of chart readings and make dire predictions based means to understand one’s growth, then that knowledge is sup-
trologer can best provide. Unfortunately, there well, who advertise a kind of cure-all approach upon these without any real track record in the  eld. ported by the devotion—the feelings, the faith you have in your 
are astrologers who, understanding this vulner- to human problems, including disease, infertil- Vedic astrology is a genuine profession to follow, but only if ap- own self, as well as in the Deity or the spirit which may guide one-
ability, take advantage of people, charging large ity, lack of a proper marriage partner and ca- plied with continual deep study and as a spiritual practice. It can- self. And when you have that kind of a faith, the inspiration within 
fees for consultations and recommendations. reer di  culties. Their promises extend even to not be approached merely as a job and should not be taken up as gives you judgment, rather than the mechanical interpretation of 

One of the most controversial areas of Vedic astrology is reme- fabulous wealth, fame or power—all for a certain price. Some do a lucrative, in uential or powerful career. a chart, which anybody can learn by studying textbooks.”
dial measures. Such measures are an integral part of the system, not actually charge for their readings, but o er a list of expensive Yet, we cannot always blame the astrologer. If we approach an 

46 hinduism today october/november/december,  2015 october/november/december,  2015  hinduism today 47

s .  ra jam



How Accurate Is It? of “karmic management” program to help us optimize our karma. It 
Jyotisha deals with probability, as the factors that determine karma is not a “karmic fatalism” under which we are consigned to passively 
are very complex, both individual and collective, of present and past accept bad circumstances in life. To use it in a deterministic man-
lives. In this respect it presents a forecast, something like a weather ner is to misuse it. By doing so, we fail to benefi t from its real power, 
forecast, which contains variables, with some things quite likely and which is to help us gain mastery over our lives and not be the victims 
others only possibilities. The planets provide indications and energies of fl uctuating outer events. Astrology is the ultimate science of time 
that we can become aware of and use in a more positive manner. The management, an aid in dealing with life’s many choices.
stars themselves do not compel us to act, but refl ect the subtle forces Chakrapani explains, “By looking at the horoscope and how the 
through which our actions must proceed. We are not controlled by planets demonstrate dharma (righteousness), artha (wealth), kama 
the stars. Rather, they are a refl ection of ourselves and our place in (pleasure) and moksha (liberation), one gains insight into the indi-
the cosmos. To be really accurate, an astrologer requires an exten- vidual’s basic instincts and can suggest the best lifestyle and spiri-
sive analysis of various factors. This can extend into many hours and tual regimen (sadhana) for that individual. The three gunas—sattva 
multiple readings. For this reason, most astrology aims only at macro- (calmness), rajas (action) and tamas (inertia)—coexist in a varying de-
managing the chart. Micro-managing can only be done with charts gree of dominance, also evident from the chart. The interplay of the 
that are given considerable time and effort. gunas determines the nature of all our thoughts, feelings and actions, 

hence sadhana is recommended according to the predominant guna. 
Should a Vedic Astrologer Be a Hindu? Hatha yoga and meditation for those of sattvic nature, devotion for 
This question was asked at the 1992 International Symposium on the rajasic person and selfl ess religious service for the tamasic.”
Vedic Astrology. Most of the astrologers interviewed by HINDUISM Chakrapani continues, “Sometimes the advice just lets people 
TODAY said yes. Dr. B. Sureshwara of Chicago answered rhetorically, cope better with life. Sometimes it is just the knowledge of karma 

“Should a Catholic priest be a Christian?” Chakrapani added, “If he is and reincarnation implicit in Vedic astrology which, especially for 
not Hindu, embedded in the tradition, he will not really understand the Westerner, creates a spiritual perspective on life. It helps the in-
Hindu astrology. Every aspect of it is interconnected with the Hindu dividual take responsibility for the circumstances in which he fi nds 
religion.” Who then would qualify as a Hindu? Sureshwara proposed, himself and forego resentment at the seeming misfortunes indicated 

“anyone who believes as a Hindu,” and Chakrapani, “anyone who sin- in the chart—which is, after all, a mere messenger of one’s karma and, 
cerely loves Hinduism.” in fact, an opportunity for personal growth.” 

What Is the Nature of a Reading? What Information Should I Expect to Acquire?
Most people go to astrologers for an examination of their birth chart. A reading of your natal chart should yield an understanding of trends 
This can be looked at for a general life examination; or specifi c do- and periods of your life, with favorable times for action. It should pro-
mains of life, like career or health, can be examined within it. Along vide a clarifi cation of your karma in all the main fi elds of life. It may 
with the birth chart, the Vedic astrologer will explore various divi-
sional (amsha) charts, particularly the navamsha, nakshatra posi-
tions, and planetary periods (dashas and bhuktis), and perhaps an- Star power: (right) A guide introduces a centuries-old super ac-
nual charts or solar returns. curate sundial to students at the Jaipur Observatory, explaining how 

Hindu astrology is as much concerned with helping us improve our astronomy and astrology go hand in hand; (below left) a yantra 
karma as with telling us what our destiny is likely to be. It is a kind representing Venus

Fields of Application The astrologer can suggest appropriate education based on 
the child’s inclinations for profession. Spiritual inclinations may 
be seen and encouraged. Appropriate disciplines can be rec- how you might make the most money. From that point forward, past lives, will unfold. The sequence of the dasas is the same for 

here are various areas of specialty in the ommended. For example, if the child has a you can set a vision for your future and develop the competence to everyone, but the starting point varies according to the individual 

T world of jyotisha. Here we present the in- strongly placed Saturn, verbal admonishment deploy those dreams completely, correctly and in a timely manner. chart, speci cally the Moon’s nakshatra. The duration of the maha-
sights of experienced practitioners of Ve- can bring about humbling results. If Mars is dashas, or major cycles are: Sun, 6 years; Moon 10 years; Mars 7; 

dic astrology on  ve  elds of application. strong, physical chores constructively engage Right Timing, by Christina Collins-Hill Rahu 18; Jupiter 16; Saturn 19; Mercury 17; Ketu 7; and Venus 20. 
the child’s nature, while corporal punishment Electional astrology (muhurta, “moment,” in Sanskrit) selects a Dashas unfold di erently for each person, depending upon the 

Parenting by Dharma, by Dennis Flaherty will negatively engage the Martian nature, fur- time for an action to commence by searching for positive future birth chart.
Firstly, an astrologer can identify for devout ther fueling samskaras of anger and potential planetary placements. By doing this, we can relieve or correct dif-
parents those times for conception more di- violence. What is good for one child is not  cult conditions in the natal chart which cause impediments to a Astrology for Health, by Vamadeva Shastri 
vinely ordained than others to bring an evolved good for another. desired objective. Spiritual muhurta includes timings for initiation, Medical astrology aims at assessing our health potential, our likely 
and high-minded soul into their family. Health weddings, name-giving, etc. Material muhurta covers matters of diseases, their possible cure and our lifespan, as well as potential 
of their newborn is then naturally the parents’ Planning a Stellar Career, by William Levacy education, business, surgery, travel, law, etc. emotional and mental problems. This system is intimately con-
foremost concern. The child’s chart will indicate I have found three special places that identify nected with ayurveda, the Vedic medicine. All of us eventually get 
areas of constitutional weakness and potential career activity. The  rst house or ascendant The Great Cycles of Life, by Edith Hathaway sick and die, so every chart has negative health potentials—a dis-
illness. In some cases balarishta yogas—nega- and its ruling planet give big clues. The sixth A dasa is a cycle or period of time. In Vedic astrology there are 55 turbing fact when dealing with those close to us. Proper analysis 
tive karmas of the past with the potential to cut this life short— house, that of service, has more to say about those “bread-and-but- di erent dasha systems, of which the Vimsottari is most used. Vim- can show us when a person is likely to get sick and their potential 
are seen. In all cases, including extreme ones, remedial measures ter” jobs that make us money. The tenth house, of karma or action, sottari (literally 120) refers to man’s ideal 120-year lifespan, with for recovery. By providing early warning of impending negative 
are e ective, especially the parents’ prayers. This is not just wishful tells us about career or life purpose. Vedic astrology can give clues various cycles, subcycles and sub-sub-cycles within it. These da- planetary periods for our health, astrology gives us time to take 
thinking. I have personally seen miracles. to your karma in this life. It can tell you where your dreams lie and shas are indicators of when the karma-phala, fruits of karma from precautions and o ers methods to minimize the negative e ects.

48 hinduism today october/november/december,  2015 october/november/december,  2015  hinduism today 49

shutterstock



include remedial measures to follow, such as gems, mantras, yajnas How Is the Panchangam Best Used? 
and pujas. A good astrologer can easily see important trends and can 1) Acquire a panchangam for your area and observe the auspicious 
sometimes predict specifi c events, but even the best will only be 80 days and times it indicates. I recommend the detailed Panchangam 
percent correct in predictions, and may go wrong completely if the by Himalayan Academy, produced annually for any time zone. It Ketu
birth time is incorrect. Knowing that given birth times are not neces- has a good introduction explaining its use. 2) Use the panchangam 
sarily accurate, he will ask questions of the client to see if the events to choose auspicious days and times to begin activities and projects, Rahu Moon
in the person’s life agree with their chart as calculated by the given such as weddings, new ventures or entering a new home. Many festi- Chandra
date. Sometimes a change or “rectifi cation” of a few minutes in the val days are ideal for special events. 
birth time will yield a much more accurate chart. Follow-up consul-
tations should include a review of previous readings, their indications What Other Ways Can I Use Jyotisha?
and predictions and any remedial measures suggested, along with ap- 1) Those who have a shastri to consult (or are well versed in the sci-
propriate adjustments. Follow-up readings may address changes in ence themselves), may use jyotisha to help in selecting employees, as-
planetary periods, transits or annual chart indications, along with the sociates, business partners, etc. 2) Baby names are often chosen ac-
client’s questions and concerns. cording to astrological factors. 3) One of the main uses is for marriage. 

Traditional families will always consult a shastri to check compat-
What Can I Do to Get Started with Astrology? ibility between potential spouses, and between their families. 4) Jyo-
1) First, fi nd a suitable astrologer and have your birth chart read. He tisha can, in many ways, grant a deeper, more appreciative, under-
or she will help you learn about your chart so you can understand its standing of other people and thus improve relationships.
various elements, including your ascendant, Moon sign, Sun sign, im-
portant yogas, and the ruling planets. 2) Some devotees fi nd it helpful H ow Can I Use this Wisdom to Guide My Children?
to learn the birth charts of their family members as well. 3) It is in- 1) The knowledge revealed in the child’s natal chart will help you un- Mars
formative to be aware of your nakshatra, its name, Deity, ruling planet derstand and confi dently work with his or her nature and develop-
and indications. 4) Learn and celebrate your tithi pravesh, or Vedic lu- ment. 2) It will enable you to competently guide the child through Saturn Venus Jupiter Mangala
nar birthday. 5) Learn about remedial measures, particularly mantras the various periods indicated in the chart. 3) Applied at a deeper Shani Shukra Brihaspati
to the planets and the place of planets in temple worship. 6) You may level, jyotisha can help you cognize how your nature, as a parent, im-
wish to incorporate jyotisha japa along with your regular japa. pacts the child. All this gives patience and stability. Satguru Sivaya 

Subramuniyaswami observed: “For raising offspring, a forecast can 
 Once I Have My Interpreted Chart, How Do I Use It? be of the utmost help. A baby predicted to have a fi ery temper should 
1) Most importantly, you can use this knowledge to understand and be raised to always be kind and considerate of others’ feelings, taught 
mold your character, as you work with your emotional and intellectu- to never argue with others. Of course, good examples must be set 
al inclinations, strengths and weaknesses. 2) Through the years, you early on by parents. This will soften the inclination toward temper. 
can observe and anticipate the ebbs and changes as you go through Mercury
your planetary periods. 3) You may fi nd it helpful to consult your Budha
shastri when planning major events, changes or facing important life Planets and the zodiac: (right) The nine heavenly bodies that form 
issues. Knowing when infl uences will prevail, you can plan accord- the heart of jyotisha. Each planet is regarded as a devata, or planetary Sun
ingly in working through your karmas. 4) Use the information you Deity and cosmic power, as shown in this artwork, each depicted with 
have gained when making long- and short-term plans and decisions. his animal vahana, or vehicle. (below) The twelve zodiac divisions Surya

Krittika B
shown circling the Earth, each with its cohlaorarn iRohini and symbolic depiction. 

Ashvi
s ira

ni

Mrig
a h

Revati

dr
a

In a Nutshell Ar Ut

ndeed, jyotisha is an intricate, complicated system of knowledge, re- in sequence. Planet Devata Adhidevata Pratya-
Each house rules over speci c domains of human life dhidevata Vahana

 I quiring a good grasp of astronomy, astrology and human nature. 
People can and do spend lifetimes exploring its vastness. But (see page 53). Mapping the speci c houses, their signs Sun Surya Agni Siva Horse

here is a super-simple summary. and the planetary positions within them is the foundation Moon Chandra Apas/Soma Parvati Deer
Vedic astrology is based on math e matical divisions of the zodiac Ar

Taurus ies of Vedic astrological interpretations. To these fundamen-
ini Pis Mars Mangala Bhumi Skanda Lion

and de ned relationships between planetary locations. The zodiac m tals many other calculations can be added.
is a narrow band across the sky through which the sun, moon and William Levacy summarizes in Beneath a Vedic Sky: “The Mercury Budha Vishnu Narayana Parrot

planets travel, expressing various in uences, both physical and astrologer’s role is to match the patterns in the birth chart Jupiter Brihaspati Indra Brahman Goat
subtle. The main zodiac division used is that of twelve signs, or with patterns in the heavens to understand the nature of Venus Shukra Indrani Indra Elephant
rashis, of 30 degrees each, but other divisional charts are used that person’s life. The astrologer consults the records in Saturn Shani Yama Prajapati Crow
as well. the ancient texts, much of which is memorized, and then 

Rahu Rahu Durga Naga Tiger
The Earth rotates at about one sign every two hours, causing analyzes, synthesizes and draws a conclusion about the 

the signs and planets in them to rise in the east and set in the west. likely events at hand. The correctness of the reading is Ketu Ketu Chitragupta Brahman Bird
The point of the sign rising in the east forms the cusp of the  rst directly proportional to the experience and spiritual ad- Planets: There are three levels of planetary Deities. The Devata 
house (bhava). This is the ascendant, rising sign or lagna, which de- vancement of the astrologer, as well as to the recipient’s represents the planet itself as a Divine power. The Adhidevata rep-
termines the orientation of the chart as a whole. The sign ahead of the desire and receptivity to having their chart read clearly.” resents the over-ruling cosmic power beyond the planet. The Praty-
rising sign becomes the second house, with the rest of the houses following adhi-Devata represents the aspect of Ishvara behind the planet. 

50 hinduism today october/november/december,  2015 october/november/december,  2015  hinduism today 51

Magha Aslesha
Push

va P
halg

uni
ya

Pur

Punarvasu
Utta

ra
Ph

alg
uni

Leo Cancer

go
Ge

s .  ra jam

Vishakha
Anuradha

Svati
htha

Jyes
Chitra

Mula

Hasta

Lib
Scorpio ra

ar
ius Vir

Dhanishtha
i h Sab

a h
t s rav

ha
h k

an
S a

Pu
rva

Pro
stap

ada Uttarashadha

os
tap

ad
a Purva

ra
Pr shadh

ta a

u rius Caq a pricA orn Sag
ce

s itt



Fighting the child’s impulse will just amplify it. A child of an indepen-
dent nature should be taught early on to care for himself in all respects wealth, livelihood, loss, spirituality, 
so that the life ahead will benefi t society and bring honor to the family. ” speech travel The Twelve Houses (Bhavas), Realms of Life 

siblings, appearance, gains, 
 Are “Bad Times” Really Bad Times? expression, health, in uence, 
1) There are astrologically bad times in life, just as we have diffi culties courage well-being learning

1Tanubhava
BODY 7 Kalatrabhava

in various spheres of life, or bad weather days. These may be related MARRIAGE 
to health, work, fi nances or relationships. But bad times also can aid mother, mind, karma, vocation, Ruler: Sun Rulers: Venus (men), 
in spiritual growth and are good for sadhana. 2) There are ways to deal emotions, eminence, Appearance, disposition, Jupiter (women)  
with bad astrological times, just as with adverse weather conditions. home character health, prana, identity, Marriage, love aff airs, 
Astrology should never cause us to lose our sense of well-being. 3) Bet- birth, general well-being partnership, career
ter than having good karma in the chart is having the strength to over-
come adversity, which is always there in life to some degree. Satguru children, marriage, guru, 2 Dhanabhava 8 Ayurbhava
Sivaya Subramuniyaswami pointed out, “Diffi culties need not be bad buddhi, partnerships, values, WEALTH LONGEVITY 
news if they are approached as our chance to grow in facing them.” devotion career religions Ruler: Jupiter Ruler: Saturn

enemies, longevity, Livelihood, income, Longevity, mysticism, worry, sexual 
Ho w Much Time and Emphasis on Jyotisha Is Healthy? di  culties, service power, mysticism wealth, speech, diet, energy, money loss, calamities, 
1) Using it as a personal meditative tool and timing aid is helpful. 2) early childhood inheritances, power, destiny
Daily examination of the panchangam is informative. 3) Looking at the 
birth chart around the times of one’s birthday or at the changing of 3 Bhrartibhava 9 Dharmabhava

BROTHER DHARMA
planetary periods or important transits (two or three times a year) is Ruler: Mars Ruler: Jupiter 
wise. 4) Professionals may fi nd it useful to consult a shastri of jyotisha ABOUT THE AUTHOR

Siblings, friends, Higher education, religion, 
and vastu on a regular basis. Kings and politicians often had a full-time Pandit Vamadeva Shastri (Dr. David Frawley) energy expression, guru, father, grace, virtue, 
retinue of astrologers. 5) Regular astrologically based worship is good, is the author of over thirty books on Vedic communication, courage values, fortune, luck
such as mantras to planets, and circumambulating the planetary altar in 
temples. 6) Dependence on astrology can be taken to extremes. It should subjects. He has a Jyotish Medha Prabha from 

be a guide to action, not a substitute for it. the Indian Council of Vedic Astrology, a D. Litt. 4 Matribhava 10 Karmabhava
MOTHER KARMA

from SVYASA, and a prestigious 2015 Padma Ruler: Moon Rulers: Sun & Mercury
Bhushan award from the government of Mind, knowledge, Vocation, career, fame, 

The houses: (above) A blank North Indian style chart shows the 12 India. Vamadeva is an advisor for the Council emotions, home, property, success, eminence, 
houses. In this style the houses are fi xed, while in the South Indian of Vedic Astrology (CVA) and director of the vehicles, happiness character
style chart the zodiac positions are fi xed and the houses move. (right) American Institute of Vedic Studies. He is a 
A graphic depiction of the houses; (below) Mahatma Gandhi and his disciple of Sri Sadguru Sivananda Murty, was closely connected with Dr. 

B.V. Raman and is an associate of Chakrapani D. Ullal. 5 Putrabhava 11Ayabhava
chart (right) in both South and North Indian formats. CHILDREN GAINS

Ruler: Jupiter Ruler: Jupiter 
Buddhi, discrimination, Achievements, opportunities, 
devotion, past-life karma, hopes, friends, awards, income, 
merit, writing social infl uence, learning

The Horoscope of Mahatma Gandhi 6 Shatrubhava 12 Vyayabhava
ENEMIES LOSS

nough of theory. What does a real-life read- o  ce. Jupiter in the seventh (relationships) be- Rulers: Saturn & Rahu Rulers: Saturn & Ketu

E ing reveal? To answer this, we explore the stows an expansive nature and reformist zeal. Disease, opposition, Spirituality, enlightenment, 

chart of the father of modern India. Mo- The Moon in its own sign (Cancer) in the tenth confl ict, diffi  culties, rivals, sacrifi ce, losses, expenses, 
litigation, service travel, foreign connections

handas K. Gandhi’s chart shows the social impact house (public in uences) along with Rahu shows 
of an idealistic Libra ascendant seeking to reform the capacity to motivate the masses. Rahu here 
the world according to spiritual values. Libra as- shows a broad public and media in uence and 
cendant—seeking balance and harmony—is the good karmic actions. Yet it creates some controver-
most common sign for political and social leaders sy, re ected in the partition of India and manifold Moon, from 1905 to 1922. During his Mars period, from 1915 to 
and reformists, good and bad. Five strong planets problems Gandhi faced in dealing with the British. 1922, he transformed from a South African lawyer to an Indian 
(Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Moon) in energetic The Moon is in Aslesha nakshatra, known for the renunciate. The major period of Rahu in the tenth house, from 
movable signs (Libra, Aries and Cancer), and pow- facing of struggle and con ict and the ability to 1922 to 1940, brought him prominence as the leader of India’s 
erful angular houses ( rst, seventh and tenth) develop skill to overcome enemies. independence movement, showing the turbulence of that era. 
dominate the chart, providing extraordinary pow- Libra ascendants love the truth when Mercury, His Jupiter period, from 1940, brought him success. 
er of political action and keeping him constantly Venus and Jupiter combine their in uences, as Gandhiji’s death occurred in Jupiter-Venus dasha, shortly 
traveling and meeting with people. they do in this chart. Gandhi typi ed this with his Satyagraha after his Jupiter-Ketu period, with Jupiter’s in uence reaching 

Saturn in the second house (speech and diet) a ords renuncia- (holding to truth) movement. Mars on the ascendant brings some Venus as the ascendant lord and indicator of self and life. But 
tion and sense control, typi ed by Gandhi’s extended fasting and martial energy, as seen in his early life as a lawyer, but is domi- Venus for Libra ascendant is not fully bene c, as it also rules 
periods of silence. The Sun in the twelfth house (loss and libera- nated by the three bene c planets. Yet, Libra ascendant tends the eighth house, that of death. Aligned with Mars and at a 
tion) in Virgo, a sign of purity, makes for a virtuous, self-abnegating toward extremism, with Gandhi being accused of fanaticism and later period of life, its male c nature can threaten the life of the 
nature. It can also indicate his time spent in prison and the fact dogmatism, of holding a standard too high for people to live up to. person. Mars in the  rst house made him prone to attacks, but 
that he worked behind the scenes and never assumed political Gandhi became an activist under the dasha (period) of the the chart’s overall strength brought his assassination late in life. 

52 hinduism today october/november/december,  2015 october/november/december,  2015  hinduism today 53

shutterstock