First	published	in	2005	by	RED	WHEEL/WEISER,	LLC

York	Beach,	ME
With	offices	at:

500	Third	Street,	Suite	230
San	Francisco,	CA	94107
www.redwheelweiser.com

	

Copyright	©	2005	Damian	Sharp	All	rights	reserved.	No	part	of	this
publication	may	be	reproduced	or	transmitted	in	any	form	or	by	any	means,
electronic	or	mechanical,	including	photocopying,	recording,	or	by	any
information	storage	and	retrieval	system,	without	permission	in	writing

from	Red	Wheel/Weiser,	LLC.
Reviewers	may	quote	brief	passages.

	
Library	of	Congress	Cataloging-in-Publication	Data

Sharp,	Damian.
Learning	astrology	:	an	astrology	book	for	beginners	/	Damian	Sharp.

p.	cm.
ISBN	1-57863-298-6

1.	Astrology.	2.	Horoscopes.	I.	Title.
BF1708.1.S52	2005

133.5—dc22					2005018474
	

Typeset	in	Adobe	Caslon	by	Kathryn	Sky-Peck	Printed	in	Canada	FR
	

12	11	10	09	08	07	06

8	7	6	5	4	3	2
The	paper	used	in	this	publication	meets	the	minimum	requirements	of	the
American	National	Standard	for	Information	Science—Permanence	of

Paper	for	Printed	Library	Materials	z39.48-1992	(R1997).



For	Yumika,	Venus	in	Furs,
alluring	and	enigmatic

like	moonlight	on	a	placid	lake.
—DS



Contents
Part	1

Surveying	the	Horoscopic	Skyscape
	

CHAPTER	1	The	Horoscope	and	the	Signs	of	the	Zodiac
CHAPTER	2	The	Planets
CHAPTER	3	The	Twelve	Horoscopic	Houses
CHAPTER	4	The	Major	Aspects

	

Part	2
The	Planets	in	the	Signs,	Houses,	and	in	Aspect

	

CHAPTER	5	The	Sun
CHAPTER	6	The	Moon
CHAPTER	7	Mercury
CHAPTER	8	Venus
CHAPTER	9	Mars
CHAPTER	10	Jupiter
CHAPTER	11	Saturn
CHAPTER	12	Uranus
CHAPTER	13	Neptune
CHAPTER	14	Pluto



Part	1
Surveying	the	Horoscopic	Skyscape



CHAPTER	1
The	Horoscope	and	the	Signs	of	the	Zodiac

Astrology	is	both	a	science	and	an	art.	It	is	a	symbolic	representation	of	all	of
the	elements—religious,	spiritual,	emotional,	mental,	and	physical,	invisible	and
visible—that	 exist	 in	 the	 universe	 and	 come	 together	 in	 diverse	 combinations
that	account	for	individual	human	beings	and	the	forces	that	shape	and	act	upon
them.	We	 are	microcosms	manifesting	 the	macrocosm,	 an	 ancient	 concept	 set
forth	in	the	Bible	as	Man	made	in	the	image	of	God.	Astrological	interpretation
relies	heavily	on	 an	 informed	 intuition	 and	a	 familiarity,	 gained	 from	practice
and	time,	with	the	complex	and	multilayered	meanings	underlying	its	seemingly
simple	 symbology.	 Interpreting	 a	 horoscope	 is	 partly	 science,	 partly	 intuitive
discipline,	and	ultimately	a	synthesis	of	both.	The	particular	reading	will	reflect
the	 personality	 and	 outlook	 of	 the	 astrologer	 in	 much	 the	 same	 way	 as	 a
psychologist's	analysis	is	also	colored	by	his	or	her	personal	views.
Astrology	tells	us	that	as	individuals	we	are	peculiar	and	particular,	while	at

the	 same	 time	 a	 direct	 manifestation	 of	 a	 cosmic	 whole	 to	 which	 we	 are
inexorably	linked.	It	reminds	us	that	we	are	bound	to	the	karmic	wheel,	that	we
come	 into	 the	world	with	special	gifts	as	well	as	certain	burdens	and	 travails.
On	the	surface	it	can	appear	to	tell	us	that	our	fortunes	and	our	personalities	are
preordained,	that	our	fates	are	completely	in	the	hands	of	the	gods.	But	a	man's
character	is	his	fate,	the	Greek	philosopher	Heracleitus	tells	us,	and	in	the	end
there	is	no	disguising	or	excusing	who	we	are.
Correctly	understood	and	applied,	a	horoscope	is	a	precise	instrument	based

on	 real	 forces,	 events,	 and	 relationships	 occurring	 in	 nature.	 It	 is,	 most
importantly,	 a	 diagram	 of	 an	 individual's	 purpose	 in	 life	 and	 a	 symbolic
language	that	describes	how	different	factors—signs,	planets,	and	houses—are
combined	 to	 produce	 a	 meaningful	 whole.	 Each	 horoscope	 is	 a	 complex
combination	 of	 factors,	 a	 graphic	 depiction	 of	 a	 particular	 determining	 and
synchronistic	moment	 in	 time	 and	 space	when	 the	bodies	 of	 the	 solar	 system
form	 a	 unique	 pattern.	 The	 art	 of	 astrological	 analysis	 lies	 in	 intuitively
synthesizing	 all	 the	 relationships	 in	 the	 horoscope	 to	 create	 a	 complete	 and
integrated	picture	or	profile.
In	 reading	 any	 horoscope,	 it	 is	 important	 to	 remember	 that	 the	 energies

symbolized	 by	 the	 planets	 and	 signs	 represent	 birth	 potentials	 that	 the
individual	may	or	may	not	 choose	 to	 actualize	 in	 the	manner	described.	Age,



sex,	socioeconomic	conditions,	education,	environment,	spiritual	development,
and	many	other	 factors	 contribute	 to	 the	ways	 in	which	we	 express	 our	 natal
energies.
Astrology	 does	 not	 preclude	 personal	 willpower,	 selfdetermination,	 and

dynamic	 action	 upon	 those	 very	 forces	 that	 seem	 to	 have	 cosmically
preordained	who	we	are	and	what	we	are	to	become.	What	it	presents	us	with
are	the	lessons	we	need	to	learn	within	this	particular	turn	of	the	Great	Wheel,
along	with	our	innate	potential,	in	order	to	become	and	ultimately	be.	How	well
we	learn	these	lessons	and	gain	from	them	is	up	to	us	as	individuals.	We	are	all,
in	a	sense,	Odysseus	using	all	of	his	courage,	guile,	strength,	and	wits	to	defy
Poseidon	(the	god	of	the	sea),	of	whom	he'd	made	an	enemy,	in	order	to	simply
get	 home.	 How	 well	 the	 lessons	 are	 learned	 is	 not	 the	 responsibility	 of	 the
teacher,	who	 simply	 presents	 them	 for	what	 they	 are	 and	moves	 on.	 It	 relies
solely	on	the	intelligence,	receptivity,	perception,	and	tenacity	of	the	pupil.

Constructing	a	Horoscope	or	Astrological	Chart
You	may	find	it	useful	to	obtain	a	horoscope	for	your	time	and	place	of	birth	so
you	can	learn	the	principles	presented	in	this	book	by	studying	your	own	natal,
or	birth,	chart.	Constructing	an	individual	horoscope	is	a	fairly	complex	process,
involving	precise	calculations,	 the	exact	 time,	date,	and	place	of	birth,	 latitude
and	 longitude,	an	ephemeris,	a	 table	of	 the	houses,	a	 list	of	 time	changes,	and
other	 tools.	 In	 this	 day	 and	 age,	 however,	 there	 are	 many	 Internet	 sites	 and
computer	 software	 programs	 for	 casting	 astrological	 charts.	 Several	 books	 on
casting	 techniques	 are	 also	 available,	 among	 them	 Alan	 Leo's	 Casting	 the
Horoscope	and	Margaret	Hone's	Modern	Textbook	of	Astrology.	The	American
Federation	 of	 Astrologers	 (AFA)	 also	 puts	 out	 an	 excellent	 series	 of	 math
handbooks.

The	Origins	of	Astrology
In	our	earliest	art,	that	of	the	Upper	Paleolithic,	between	32,000	to	12,000	years
ago,	 depictions	 of	 the	 heavens,	 of	 the	 Sun,	 Moon,	 and	 the	 stars,	 are	 totally
absent.	 Our	 remote	 Cro-Magnon	 ancestors	 were	 not	 stargazers	 beyond	 an
awareness	 of	 the	 moon	 and	 its	 phases,	 depicted,	 perhaps,	 in	 bas-relief	 cave
carvings	of	women	holding	bison	horns	with	thirteen	incisions	and	as	marks	on
antlers	 and	 bones	 found	 on	 the	 cave	 floors.	 These	 people	 were	 basically
earthbound	 in	 their	 preoccupations,	 concerned	 with	 their	 immediate	 and
animistic	world.	For	them,	magic	and	power	resided	not	in	the	sky	above,	but	in
the	 earth,	 in	 deep	 caves	 in	which	 these	 ancient	 artists	 chose	 to	 render,	 by	 the
meager	light	of	crude	lamps	and	small	fires,	remarkably	beautiful,	sophisticated,



and	 accurately	 detailed	 depictions	 of	 the	 fauna	 that	 both	 sustained	 and
threatened	their	existence:	aurochs,	bison,	horses,	ibex,	and	reindeer;	mammoth,
rhino,	 lion,	 and	 the	 cave-dwelling	 bear.	 The	 symbolic	 meaning	 beyond	 their
naturalistic	 representations	 spoke	 of	 the	 creatures'	 inherent	 personalities	 and
attributes,	as	well	as	a	host	of	abstract	 ideas	associated	with	 them	(like	speed,
agility,	 courage,	 strength,	 nurturing,	 fierceness,	 cunning).	Chinese	 astrology	 is
in	part	based	on	this	kind	of	observation.	What	did	these	creatures	represent	to
our	ancestors,	who	knew	and	observed	them	so	intimately?	It	does	seem	that	the
images	on	the	cave	walls	are	not	just	the	beginning	of	art,	but	the	beginnings	of
written	 language,	 visual	 symbols	 drawn	 from	 nature	 conveying	 meanings
beyond	their	simple	and	mundane	representations.
The	 deep	 cave	 is	 the	 realm	 of	 the	 shaman,	 of	 the	 vision	 quest,	 of	 the

underworld	where	nature's	mysterious	power,	 the	miracle	of	existence	itself—
birth,	 being,	 death,	 and	 regeneration—	 reside.	 It	was	 the	 role	 of	 the	 shaman-
artist	 to	 penetrate	 this	 dark	 realm	of	 the	 invisible	 and	make	 contact	with	 and
capture	 this	 power,	 conjuring	 the	 animals	 and	 their	 attributes	 from	out	 of	 the
living	rock	in	which	their	spirit-essence	dwelled	and	snaring	them	as	though	art
was	 the	 hunter's	 trap.	 The	 creation	 of	 these	 magnificent	 works	 of	 art	 was
usually	part	of	a	form	of	ritualistic	magic.
With	 the	 end	 of	 the	 last	 Ice	 Age,	 hunter-gatherer	 cultures	 were	 gradually

replaced	by	nomadic	 tent-dwelling	herders	with	 their	domesticated	 flocks	and
agrarian	 and	 city-building	 societies	 as	 civilization	 began	 its	 long	 emergence.
Having	solved	certain	earthbound	problems	and	reduced	mundane	concerns,	the
philosophically	 minded	 began	 to	 look	 upward	 to	 observe	 and	 ponder	 the
glowing	 bodies	 in	 the	 firmament	 and	 their	 cyclic	movements	 across	 the	 sky,
which	 observers	 came	 to	 correlate	with	 the	 changes	 of	 the	 seasons	 and	 other
earthly	events.	In	observing	how	the	seasons	of	the	year	and	the	movement	of
the	 stars	 and	 planets	 followed	 fixed	 and	 correlating	 laws	 of	 change	 and
transformation,	they	identified	a	possible	relationship	between	the	earth	and	the
sky	 and	 a	 key	 to	 understanding	 the	 nature	 of	 all	 beings	 in	 time	 and	 space.
Determining	 the	meaning	of	 the	 influence	of	 the	stars	and	planets	became	the
role	of	the	astrologer-priests.	Thus,	astrology	came	into	being	as	a	practice	that
belonged	to	the	priesthood	and	the	royalty	they	served.
Almost	 all	 ancient	 peoples	 from	 the	 Mesolithic	 period	 onward	 had	 some

system	of	reading	the	heavens	for	divinatory	purposes.	The	belief	and	study	of
celestial	 omens	 without	 the	 use	 of	 a	 chart,	 or	 a	 map	 of	 the	 stars,	 do	 not
constitute	 what	 we	 call	 astrology.	 The	 most	 commonly	 held	 belief	 among
scholars	is	that	astrology	came	into	being	in	Mesopotamia	(the	region	between



the	 Tigris	 and	 Euphrates	 rivers	 in	what	 is	modern	 Iraq).	Around	 6000	B.C.E.,
Babylonians	observed	the	planets	as	“wanderers,”	and	early	Babylonian	records
attest	 to	 the	 existence	of	 astrology	 as	we	know	 it	 today,	 that	 is,	 a	 horoscopic
astrology	used	for	predicting	the	future,	answering	questions,	and	analyzing	an
individual's	 destiny	 based	 on	 the	 time	 and	 place	 of	 birth.	 Initially,
Mesopotamian	astrology	was	much	like	that	of	other	cultures:	a	simple	reading
of	 the	 heavens	 for	 omens	 that	 might	 effect	 or	 foretell	 happenings	 on	 earth.
However,	the	Mesopotamians	soon	developed	a	system	that	identified	recurring
patterns	in	the	night	sky	and	their	direct	correspondence	to	human	events.	The
first	known	astrological	texts,	written	in	cuneiform	on	clay	tablets,	are	from	the
old	Babylonian	period	around	the	time	of	Hammurabi,	the	king	who	introduced
the	first	written	rule	of	 law	known	as	 the	Hammurabi	Code	and	quoted	in	 the
Old	Testament—“An	eye	for	an	eye,	a	 tooth	for	a	 tooth.”	Like	 the	peoples	of
many	 other	 cultures,	 the	 Mesopotamians	 believed	 that	 the	 stars	 and	 planets
were	in	fact	gods	and	goddesses.	Venus	was	Ishtar,	one	of	their	major	deities.
The	 Egyptians	 identified	 the	 constellation	 Orion	 with	 Osiris,	 the	 god	 of	 the
underworld.	The	Mesopotamians	however	were	unique	in	their	view	of	the	stars
and	planets	as	being	indicators	of	divine	will	at	any	given	moment	in	time,	the
here	and	now,	thus	making	them	the	originators	of	astrology	as	we	understand	it
today.
The	evolution	of	astrology	seems	to	have	gone	through	three	major	phases.

First	came	the	development	of	lore	surrounding	the	observation	of	omens.	Then
came	 the	 development	 of	 a	 Zodiac,	 without	 personal	 horoscopes,	 of	 twelve
signs	through	which	the	transits	of	Jupiter	were	recorded	at	the	rate	of	one	sign
per	 year.	 From	 this,	 some	 believe,	 came	 the	 basis	 for	 the	Chinese	 system	 of
assigning	each	year	to	a	zodiacal	animal	sign	(the	Chinese	animal	signs	have	a
direct	correlation	to	Western	zodiacal	signs).	Then	came	horoscopic	astrology,
involving	the	casting	of	personal	birth	charts.
In	 the	 fifth	 century	B.C.E.,	 the	Chaldeans	developed	 rules	 for	 erecting	 royal

horoscopes.	April	29,	409	B.C.E.	is	the	oldest	known	Babylonian	horoscope	for
an	individual.	It	was	also	Chaldean	astrologers	who	were	the	“Three	Kings,”	or
Magi,	who	traveled	from	Persia	to	pay	homage	to	the	newborn	Christ	with	their
symbolic	gifts	of	gold,	frankincense,	and	myrrh—gold	for	royalty,	frankincense
for	 divinity,	 and	 myrrh	 for	 death	 (embalming)	 and	 healing—meaning	 that
Christ	 was	 king,	 god	 (in	 Buddhist	 terms,	 a	 Bodhisattva),	 and	 physician.	 The
Magi,	 or	 astrologer-priests,	 held	 special	 positions	 of	 power	 in	 Babylonian
society.
The	 Babylonians	 became	 particularly	 adept,	 based	 on	 the	 records	 of	 their



observations,	at	accurately	predicting	 the	positions	of	 the	planets	at	any	given
time	in	the	future.	Systematic	eclipse	records	were	kept	from	747	B.C.E.	into	the
Hellenistic	period.
With	the	conquest	of	Persia	and	Egypt	by	Alexander	the	Great,	Babylonian

ideas,	 in	 particular	 astrology,	 were	 incorporated	 into	 Persian,	 Egyptian,	 and
Hellenic	 cultures.	 In	 331	 B.C.E.,	 following	 Alexander's	 conquests,
Mesopotamian	 astrology	 was	 introduced	 into	 Greece.	 Around	 280	 B.C.E.,
Berossus,	 a	 Chaldean	 astrologer	 and	 historian,	 directly	 related	 events	 to	 star
movements	and	worship.
Greek	astrology	took	a	more	personal	form	than	that	of	Mesopotamia,	with

the	 assignment	 of	 mythological	 correspondences	 to	 the	 Zodiac	 and	 planets.
Indeed,	 natal	 astrology	 grew	 in	 popularity	 after	 the	 Greeks	 introduced	 their
humanistic	and	individualistic	ideas	into	Chaldean	star	lore.	The	Stoics	appear
to	have	been	particularly	receptive	 to	 it,	and	 the	medical	 ideas	of	Hippocrates
were	apparently	influenced	by	it.
Around	280	B.C.E.,	Rome	began	to	be	strongly	affected	by	Greek	astrology.

In	135	B.C.E.,	Posidinius	furthered	astrology	among	Roman	intellectuals.	Later,
it	was	opposed	by	Cicero	and	the	Epicureans.	In	70	B.C.E.,	the	Greeks	set	up	the
firstknown	personal	horoscope	based	on	 the	exact	 time	of	birth,	 thus	deriving
the	Ascendant.	 In	 30	B.C.E.,	 the	Emperor	Augustus	 had	his	 horoscope	 erected
and	 interpreted	 by	 Thrasyllus,	 establishing	 a	 precedent	 that	 was	 followed	 by
later	Roman	emperors.
According	to	some	theorists,	the	birthplace	of	astrology	as	we	have	defined	it

was	 pharaonic	 Egypt.	 In	 1375	 B.C.E.,	 the	 pharaoh	 Akhenaton	 established
monotheistic	 sun	 worship,	 only	 to	 be	 overthrown	 by	 the	 priesthood	 and	 the
army,	 which	 feared	 that	 this	 monumental	 change	 in	 the	 established	 order	 of
Egyptian	society	made	Egypt	vulnerable	to	a	Hittite	invasion	armed	with	a	new
weapon,	the	iron	sword.	That	the	Egyptians	were	accomplished	astronomers	we
have	 no	 doubt.	 The	 accurate	 alignment	 of	 the	 pyramids	 and	 other	 temples	 to
certain	fixed	stars	clearly	attests	to	this.	But	it	is	a	later	Egypt,	one	influenced
by	Babylonian	ideas	brought	first	by	the	Persians	and	then	by	the	Greeks,	that
became	the	primary	source	of	horoscopic	astrology.
The	Egyptian	texts	referred	to	in	later	astrological	literature	were	written	in

Greek.	When	Alexander	the	Great	conquered	the	Persian	Empire	and	Egypt	and
penetrated	into	northwestern	India,	Greek	became	the	dominant	language	from
North	Africa	 to	 the	 far	 reaches	of	Central	Asia.	Even	 the	Bactrian	peoples	of
what	 is	 today	 Afghanistan	 and	 Pakistan	 had	 Greek-speaking	 rulers	 into	 the
early	centuries	of	the	Common	Era.	Ancient	statues	of	Buddha	draped	in	Greek



togas	(known	as	“Hellenic	Buddhas”)	are	still	 relatively	common	(or	were,	as
many	were	destroyed	as	pagan	idols	by	the	Taliban	in	Afghanistan).	As	a	result,
the	Babylonian	beliefs	embodied	in	Egyptian	astrology	traveled	easily	to	India.
In	the	West,	astrology	reached	a	high	point	with	the	Greeks	and	the	Romans.

Around	10	C.E.,	 the	 poetastrologer	Manilius	wrote	 his	Astronomicon,	 the	 first
major	Greek	work	on	astrology,	and	astrology	was	embraced	by	several	of	the
Mediterranean	mystery	 religions,	 some	 of	which	 had	 come	 from	 the	 East.	 In
140	 C.E.,	 Ptolemy	 of	 Alexandria	 published	 his	 Tetrabiblos,	 the	 first	 major
textbook	 on	 astrology.	 In	 the	 fourth	 century	 C.E.	 after	 Rome's	 conversion	 to
Christianity,	 St.	 Augustine	 led	 an	 early	 Christian	 attack	 on	 astrology.	 It
experienced	 a	 resurrection	 under	 the	 reign	 of	 the	 emperor	 Constantine	 after
Julius	 Firmicus	 Maternus	 published	 his	 Mathesis	 supporting	 astrological
theories	and	beliefs.	The	fall	of	the	Roman	Empire	saw	the	decline	of	astrology
in	the	West.
During	 the	Middle	Ages,	 the	Arabs	 kept	 divinatory	 astrology	 alive,	 and	 it

was	reintroduced	to	medieval	Europe	by	Islamic	scholars	in	the	universities	of
Spain	 during	 the	Moorish	 conquests.	 Around	 800	 C.E.,	 Charlemagne	 became
fascinated	and	influenced	by	the	craft	and	helped	further	promote	it	in	the	West.
In	 the	 eighth	 century,	 a	 school	 of	 astrology	was	 established	 in	Baghdad,	 and
Chinese	astrology	was	developed	by	Han	Yu	and	Li	Hsu-Chung.	 In	 the	ninth
century,	 Sabian	 star	 worship	 took	 firm	 root	 in	Mesopotamia	 and	 Albumasar
published	his	Introduction	to	Astrology.
In	England	during	 the	 twelfth	century,	after	 journeying	 to	 the	Middle	East,

Adelard	 of	 Bath	was	 instrumental	 in	 reintroducing	 astrology	 to	 the	 Christian
West.	Later,	St.	Thomas	Aquinas	helped	reconcile	astrology	with	the	teachings
of	 the	 Church.	 Universities	 in	 France	 and	 Spain	 then	 adopted	 its	 study	 and
established	chairs	in	its	name.	During	the	Renaissance,	the	astrologer/physician
Paracelsus	 and	 others	 furthered	 its	 acceptance	 and	 development.	 Astrology
became	associated	with	alchemy,	magic,	and	other	occult	arts.	But	by	the	mid-
1540s,	the	Copernican	view	of	the	universe	was	seen	as	a	scientific	refutation	of
geocentric	 astrology.	 In	 1555,	 Nostradamus	 published	 the	 first	 of	 his
“prophecies,”	 and	 soon	 after	Catherine	 de'	Medici	 and	 several	 other	 rulers	 of
the	 period	 became	 passionate	 believers	 in	 astrology.	 The	 Danish	 astronomer
Tycho	 Brahe,	 who	 was	 also	 Johannes	 Kepler's	 teacher,	 secretly	 practiced
astrology,	and	later	Kepler	actually	sought	to	develop	a	new	astrology.	But	all
of	 this	 activity	 ultimately	 did	 little	 to	 stem	 astrology's	 fall	 into	 disrepute.	 In
1666,	 astrology	 was	 officially	 banished	 as	 superstition	 from	 the	 French
Academy	of	Sciences.



Astrology's	 hidden	 appeal	 and	 knowledge,	 however,	 remained	 irresistible,
like	 a	 forbidden	 fruit.	 In	 the	 seventeenth	 century,	 a	 Benedictine	 monk	 and
teacher,	Placidus	de	Titus,	published	a	 series	of	 important	 astrological	works,
which	were	widely	well	received.	He	was	followed	by	the	court	astrologer	and
physician	 to	 Louis	 XIV	 of	 France,	Morin	 de	 Villefranche,	 whose	Astrologia
Gallica	also	had	a	profound	and	widespread	effect.	 In	England,	William	Lilly
published	a	major	literary	work	on	astrology	in	1675	and	successfully	predicted
the	1676	fire	in	London.	However,	astrology	continued	to	be	practiced	mainly
by	 charlatans	 and	 during	 the	 Age	 of	 Enlightenment	 was	 basically	 driven
underground.
In	1781,	William	Herschel	 discovered	Uranus.	The	Vagabond	Act	 of	 1824

officially	 outlawed	 the	 practice	 of	 astrology	 in	 England.	 Four	 years	 later,
Raphael	(Robert	Gross	Smith)	published	his	Manual	of	Astrology.	Along	with
the	discovery	of	Uranus,	the	discovery	of	Neptune	in	1846	enabled	astrologers
to	resolve	some	of	the	old	ambiguities	of	their	craft.
By	 the	 late	 nineteenth	 and	 early	 twentieth	 centuries,	 Rosicrucians,

Theosophists,	 and	 other	 occultists	 in	 England	 and	 the	 United	 States	 were
embracing	 and	 promoting	 the	 craft,	 and	 the	 revival	 soon	 spread	 into	 Europe,
particularly	 Germany	 and	 France.	 In	 1908,	 Llewellyn	 George	 established	 a
school	 of	 astrology	 in	 Los	 Angeles,	 an	 early	 forerunner	 of	 the	 American
Federation	of	Astrologers,	and	in	1920,	Evangeline	Adams	succeeded	in	getting
astrology	legalized	in	New	York.
Pluto's	 discovery	 in	 1930	 further	 helped	 solve	 some	 ageold	 astrological

questions,	 and	 astrological	 interpretation	 started	 to	 become	 profoundly
influenced	 by	 depth	 psychology,	 the	 language	 of	 which	 entered	 the	 modern
astrological	lexicon.	Carl	Jung,	one	of	the	fathers	of	modern	psychology	and	a
proponent	of	the	theory	of	archetypes,	saw	in	astrology	a	marvelous	system	of
symbols	 representative	of	 the	growth	of	human	personality	and	consciousness
in	relation	to	organic,	social,	and	universal	principles.	By	the	1940s,	interest	in
and	acceptance	of	the	craft	had	become	widespread.	It	continues	to	grow	to	this
day,	 as	 does	 its	 study,	 research,	 and	development	 among	modern	 astrologers,
along	with	a	growing	interest	within	the	scientific	community.
The	 development	 of	 bodies	 of	 knowledge	 from	 simple	 observations	 to

complex	 yet	 comprehensible	 definitions	 is	 a	 long	 evolutionary	 process.	 How
the	system	of	astrology	with	its	symbols	and	associated	meanings	was	actually
formulated	remains	one	of	the	great	mysteries	of	humanity.	It	can	be	explained
by	theories	of	archetypes	and	synchronicity,	the	religious	urge,	and	the	like,	but
other	than	these	broad	postulations	there	is	really	no	concrete	answer	other	than



it	 simply	 happened.	 Certainly,	 throughout	 the	 ages	 it	 has	 influenced	 the
development	of	much	of	humanity's	knowledge,	including	religion,	mythology,
agriculture,	philosophy,	medicine,	navigation,	and	modern	psychology.
One	 of	 the	 earliest	 symbols	 of	 Christianity,	 found	 to	 this	 day	 on	 Catholic

altars,	is	the	sign	of	Pisces—of	two	fish,	one	above	the	other,	facing	in	opposite
directions,	 in	 direct	 duality.	 In	 astrological	 terms,	 Christ	 is	 the	 avatar	 of	 the
Piscean	Age	from	which	we	are	currently	emerging	into	the	Age	of	Aquarius.
Few	 of	 the	 constellations	 actually	 bear	 any	 definite	 resemblance	 to	 the	 signs
that	they	represent.	Why	is	the	twelfth	constellation	identified	as	a	pair	of	fish?
Where,	fundamentally,	do	we	get	 this	remarkable	and	strange	knowledge,	 this
language	from	the	stars	that	somehow	makes	sense	to	us?	How	did	the	I	Ching
in	 ancient	 China	 and	 its	 complex	 binary	 mathematics	 that	 correspond	 to	 a
written	moral	and	social	code	of	human	action	and	behavior,	as	well	as	being	a
tool	 for	 divination,	 come	 into	 being?	 What	 is	 the	 provenance	 of	 the	 Tarot?
How,	ultimately,	 can	we	explain	 these	 things	and	 the	 fact	 that	 they	are	valid,
that	they	do,	indeed,	explain	both	the	mysterious	and	the	mundane	and	provide
us	 with	 a	 way	 of	 ordering	 and	 understanding	 our	 experience	 and	 coming	 to
terms	with	ourselves?	In	Jungian	or	archetypal	terms,	the	answer	is	deceptively
simple:	 that	 they	were	always	 there,	 innate	and	sublime,	simply	waiting	 to	be
discovered.

The	Great	Zodiacal	Ages
Beyond	 the	 yearly	 and	 daily	 cycles,	 astrology	 also	 accounts	 for	 humanity's
progression	through	the	aeons,	the	phases	of	our	evolution,	and	the	development
of	 consciousness.	 This	 is	 seen	 in	 the	 twelve	 great	 zodiacal	 ages,	 each	 lasting
about	2160	years	and	forming	part	of	what	 is	known	as	 the	“precession	of	 the
equinoxes,”	which	is	the	gradual	displacement	of	the	stars	in	relation	to	where
the	Sun	crosses	the	equator	at	each	equinox.	The	entire	cycle	lasts	25,920	years
and	then	repeats	itself	just	like	the	yearly	zodiac.	The	sequence,	however,	moves
in	the	opposite	direction.	While	the	yearly	zodiac	moves	counterclockwise,	the
ages	 move	 clockwise.	 The	 age	 of	 Aries,	 the	 era	 incorporating	 the	 Old
Testament,	was	followed	by	the	age	of	Pisces,	not	Taurus,	which	preceded	the
Arian	Age.	At	 present,	we	 are	 emerging	 out	 of	 the	Piscean	Age	 into	 the	 new
Age	of	Aquarius.
The	 Arian	 Age	 was	 one	 of	 iron,	 conquest,	 individuality,	 and	 city-states.

Pisces	 became	 a	 time	 of	 great	 sacrifice,	 mysticism,	 and	 suffering,	 attributes
associated	with	 that	 sign.	The	new	age	 that	we	are	 entering,	 that	of	Aquarius
(called	by	some	the	age	of	humanity),	implies	an	age	of	intellectual	growth—of
information,	 science	 and	 technology,	 and	 global	 communication—a	 greatly



increased	world	population,	and	the	solving	of	complex	problems.	Aviation	and
space	exploration,	computers,	and	 the	 Internet	are	obvious	heralds	of	 the	new
age	that	is	dawning.
The	age	of	Aquarius	will	be	followed	by	the	age	of	Capricorn,	in	which	it	is

believed	 things	 will	 take	 on	 a	 highly	 pragmatic	 orientation,	 according	 to
Capricorn's	 earth-sign	 proclivities.	 Some	 astrologers	 fear	 it	 will	 take	 on	 that
sign's	 darker	 aspects	 and	 be	 an	 age	 of	 impersonal,	 authoritarian	 order,	 and
maybe	even	an	age	of	robots.

The	Horoscope
A	horoscope,	or	natal	chart,	is,	literally,	a	map	of	the	position	of	the	planets	at
the	 exact	 time	 and	 place	 of	 a	 person's	 birth.	 It	 is	 a	 circle	 of	 360	 degrees,
representing	the	path	of	the	Earth's	orbit	around	the	Sun.	In	the	horoscope,	this
path,	or	ecliptic,	 is	divided	into	twelve	sections	of	30	degrees,	each	containing
one	 of	 the	 Sun	 signs,	 the	 twelve	 signs	 of	 the	 Zodiac	 that	 indicate	 the	 Earth's
relationship	to	the	Sun's	position	at	the	time	of	your	birth.	For	instance,	if	you
were	 born	 in	 late	March	 or	 early	April,	 the	 Sun	would	 have	 been	 in	 the	 first
sign,	Aries,	making	Aries	your	“Sun	sign.”
The	Zodiac	is	delineated	by	the	vernal	equinox,	which	is	marked	by	the	Sun's

position	around	March	20	of	each	year,	when	the	days	and	nights	are	equal	in
length.	This	occurs	when	the	Sun	moves	from	a	position	south	of	the	equator	to
a	position	north	of	the	equator	that	is	referred	to	in	astrology	as	0	degrees	Aries.
It	 marks	 the	 beginning	 of	 the	 “tropical	 Zodiac,”	 the	 Zodiac	most	 commonly
used	in	Western	astrology	and	the	only	one	we	shall	study	here.

	
Table	1:	Sun	Signs	and	Corresponding	Dates

	



	

The	signs	of	the	Zodiac	follow	an	unchanging	pattern	or	progression:	Aries,
Taurus,	 Gemini,	 Cancer,	 Leo,	 Virgo,	 Libra,	 Scorpio,	 Sagittarius,	 Capricorn,
Aquarius,	 and	 Pisces.	 The	 Zodiac	 (from	 the	 Greek	 zoë,	 meaning	 “life,”	 and
diakos,	meaning	“wheel”)	 is	 the	Wheel	of	Life	symbolically	conceived	by	the
human	mind.	Table	1	shows	 the	approximate	dates	of	 the	Sun's	annual	 transit
through	the	signs.	You'll	find	descriptions	of	the	Sun	in	each	of	the	twelve	signs
in	part	2,	beginning	on	page	91.

Born	on	the	Cusp
The	 Sun	 can	 never	 be	 in	 two	 signs	 at	 once.	 The	 “dividing	 line”	 between	 the
signs	is	called	the	cusp.	If	you	were	born	at	the	beginning	of	a	sign	and	the	end
of	another,	you	are	said	to	be	born	on	the	cusp.	The	term	“cusp”	refers	both	to
the	boundary	line	between	two	signs	and	the	beginning	of	a	horoscopic	house.



For	most	astrologers,	an	individual	is	considered	to	be	born	on	the	cusp	only	if
the	Sun	is	within	three	to	five	degrees,	on	either	side,	of	a	sign.	For	example,	if
the	Sun	was	between	25	degrees	of	Scorpio	and	5	degrees	of	Sagittarius	when
you	were	born,	it	would	be	considered	as	being	on	the	Scorpio/Sagittarius	cusp.
You	would	be	influenced,	to	some	degree,	by	a	blending	or	overlap	of	the	two
signs,	 like	 the	 blending	 and	 emergence	 of	 colors	 on	 the	 spectrum,	 with	 the
actual	Sun	 sign	 in	which	you	are	born	being	 the	major	 influence	or	dominant
“color.”	 The	 Sun	 sign	 is	 apt	 to	 find	 its	 strongest	 expression	 of	 the	 sign's
characteristics	at	around	15	degrees	of	the	zodiacal	house.	For	individuals	born
on	or	near	a	cusp,	 it	 is	necessary	 to	compute	 the	horoscope	mathematically	 to
determine	the	Sun	sign.	To	do	so	requires	not	only	the	month	and	day	but	also
the	year,	the	time	(to	the	minute,	if	possible),	and	place	of	birth.

Overview	of	the	Houses	of	the	Horoscope
We	all	 have	 the	 twelve	 signs	of	 the	Zodiac	 included	 in	our	horoscopes.	Their
influence	on	the	various	aspects	of	our	lives	is	determined	by	the	position	of	the
planets	in	the	signs	and	the	interaction	between	the	signs	and	the	houses	of	the
horoscope.
In	 addition	 to	 containing	 the	 twelve	 signs,	 the	 horoscope	 is	 divided	 into

twelve	 houses,	 with	 each	 house	 related	 to	 a	 sign	 of	 the	 Zodiac,	 indicated	 in
figure	 1	 on	 page	 20.	 While	 the	 signs	 are	 defined	 by	 the	 Earth's	 revolution
around	 the	Sun,	 the	 houses	 are	 defined	 by	 the	Earth's	 24-hour	 rotation	 on	 its
axis.	The	houses	are	also	delineated	by	cusps.	The	1st	House	cusp	is	found	by
calculating	the	point	where	the	eastern	horizon	is	positioned	in	the	horoscope	at
the	 time	 and	 place	 of	 birth	 and	 is	 called	 the	 Ascendant,	 or	 rising	 sign.	 For
instance,	if	you	were	born	on	June	7,	1965,	at	11:47	AM	in	Kyoto,	Japan,	your
Sun	sign	would	be	Cancer	and	your	Ascendant,	the	sign	rising	on	your	eastern
horizon,	would	be	Libra.
Whereas	 the	Sun	 sign	 describes	 your	 deepest	 self,	 your	 heart	 or	 emotional

and	spiritual	essence,	the	Ascendant	describes	your	early	environment	and	your
persona—your	 personality,	 appearance	 (especially	 the	 head),	 and	 manner	 of
selfexpression,	 your	 outer	 mask.	 Certain	 astrologers	 who	 believe	 in
reincarnation	(as	did	Pythagoras,	 the	father	of	numerology)	see	 the	Ascendant
as	representative	of	the	individual's	efforts	and	purpose	in	a	past	life.	The	rising
sign	 is	 the	 primary	 manifestation	 of	 self-awareness	 and	 expression,	 identity,
personality,	and	self-interest.

	



	

Fig.	1.	The	horoscope,	showing	the	“natural”	placement	of	the	Zodiac	in	the
twelve	houses.

	

The	1st	House	is	naturally	followed	by	the	rest	of	the	twelve	houses	in	their
fixed	order	 (if	Libra	 is	your	1st	House,	 then	Scorpio	 is	your	2nd,	Sagittarius,
your	3rd,	and	so	on).	Each	of	the	houses	represents	various	aspects	of	your	life:
self,	 money,	 communication,	 home,	 marriage,	 work,	 friendships,	 obstacles,
allies,	hopes,	desires,	and	so	 forth.	Each	house	cusp	has	a	sign	of	 the	Zodiac,
and	these	signs	describe	the	influences	upon	the	area	of	life	represented	by	the
particular	house.	We	will	go	further	into	the	symbolism	of	the	houses	in	chapter
3.

Zodiacal	Quarters
Before	we	venture	into	descriptions	of	the	zodiacal	signs	and	their	meanings,	a
brief	discussion	of	the	zodiacal	quarters	and	their	quadrants	in	the	twelve	houses
is	here	appropriate	for	your	overall	understanding.
The	 first	 quarter,	made	up	of	Aries,	Taurus,	 and	Gemini	 (corresponding	 to

spring),	 represents	 individuality	 and	 personal	 matters,	 basic	 resources,



stimulation,	and	the	birth	of	ideas.	These	are	the	1st,	2nd,	and	3rd	houses.	The
second	quarter	(summer),	consisting	of	Cancer,	Leo,	and	Virgo,	consists	of	the
4th,	5th,	and	6th	houses	and	represents	that	stage	in	which	individual	resources
are	 solidified,	 developed,	 and	 refined.	 In	 the	 third,	 or	 autumnal,	 quarter	 of
Libra,	 Scorpio,	 and	 Sagittarius,	 individuality	 begins	 to	 define	 itself	 in	 areas
beyond	 the	 strictly	 personal.	 In	 this	 quadrant,	 as	 opposed	 to	 the	 first,	 the
resources	 and	 ideas	 of	 others	 play	 an	 important	 role	 in	 the	 definition	 and
function	 of	 the	 self.	 The	 last	 zodiacal	 quarter,	 that	 of	 winter,	 consists	 of
Capricorn,	Aquarius,	 and	Pisces.	The	 accumulated	knowledge	 and	 experience
of	the	three	previous	quarters	find	expression	in	these	last	 three	signs.	Here	is
synthesis,	fruition,	realization,	and	actualization	of	all	that	has	come	before.	In
this	 last	 quarter,	 also,	 are	 the	 seeds	 of	 the	 beginning	of	 the	 new	cycle	 that	 is
about	to	follow.

The	Signs	and	Their	Elements
According	to	Empedocles,	a	Greek	philosopher,	scientist,	and	healer	who	lived
in	 Sicily	 in	 the	 fifth	 century	 B.C.E.,	 all	 matter	 is	 comprised	 of	 four	 elements:
earth,	 air,	 fire,	 and	 water.	 Fire	 and	 air	 are	 upward	 and	 outward	 reaching
elements,	 whereas	 earth	 and	 water	 turn	 inward	 and	 downward.	 In	 his
Tetrasomia,	 or	 Doctrine	 of	 the	 Four	 Elements,	 Empedocles	 described	 these
elements	not	only	as	physical	manifestations	or	material	substances,	but	also	as
spiritual	essences.	He	associated	these	elements	with	four	gods	and	goddesses:
air	with	Zeus,	earth	with	Hera,	fire	with	Hades,	and	water	with	Nestis	(believed
to	 be	 Persephone,	 the	 goddess	 of	 the	 Underworld).	 His	 ideas	 were	 further
developed	by	Aristotle.	As	a	result,	each	of	the	twelve	signs	of	the	Zodiac	was
assigned	to	one	of	the	four	elements.
Carl	G.	 Jung,	 one	 of	 the	 founders	 of	modern	 psychology,	 studied	mystical

literature,	astrology,	and	alchemy.	His	 theory	of	 intuition,	 sensation,	 thinking,
and	feeling	as	the	four	basic	components	of	personality	is	clearly	a	derivation	of
Empedocles'	 ancient	 theories	 about	 fire,	 earth,	 air,	 and	 water.	 Jung	 focused
initially	 on	 the	 polarities	 of	 introversion	 (directing	 one's	 attention	 inward
toward	 thoughts,	 feelings,	 and	 awareness)	 and	 extroversion	 (directing	 one's
energy	outward	toward	people,	actions,	and	external	objects).
In	 astrology,	 each	 of	 the	 four	 elements	 governs	 three	 signs,	 which	 form	 a

triad.	The	three	signs	belonging	to	the	same	element	are	basically	harmonious
with	 each	 other	 and	 share	 similar	 characteristics	 in	 terms	 of	 personality,
intellect,	and	innate	sensibility.	The	categories	are:
Fire:	Aries,	Leo,	and	Sagittarius



Earth:	Taurus,	Virgo,	and	Capricorn
Air:	Gemini,	Libra,	and	Aquarius
Water:	Cancer,	Scorpio,	and	Pisces
Fire	and	air	signs	are	said	to	be	masculine,	or	yang.	Water	and	earth	signs	are
feminine,	or	yin,	although	it	may	be	more	accurate	to	classify	air	signs	as	yang-
yin	 and	 earth	 signs	 as	 yinyang,	 as	 these	 two	 elements	 tend	 to	 share	 more
androgynous	qualities.
In	 general	 terms,	 the	 elements	 represent	 basic	 functions	 or	 processes	 that

characterize	the	signs	that	belong	to	them:	fire	corresponds	to	intuition;	earth,	to
sensation,	 reason,	 and	 empirical	 observation;	 air,	 to	 thinking;	 and	 water,	 to
feeling.

The	Fire	Signs:	Aries,	Leo,	and	Sagittarius
Each	 of	 the	 fire	 signs	 represents	 aspects	 of	 the	 self	 or	 ego	 in	 relation	 to
selfexpression	 and	 creativity	 that	 are	 intuitive	 in	 nature	 and	 based	 on	 internal
impulses,	 the	 drive	 to	 define	 and	manifest	 the	 individual	 self.	 Aries	 seeks	 to
impress	others	and	to	be	admired	for	its	willful	tenacity	and	resolve.	Leo	seeks
and	needs	an	audience	for	its	dramatic	selfexpression,	one	in	which	the	various
qualities	of	its	character	will	find	an	effective	response.	Sagittarius	is	driven	to
expand	 its	 horizons,	 to	 seek	 self-realization	 through	 active	 participation	 with
others.	When	negative,	 fire	 signs	 can	 be	 egotistical,	 stubborn,	 aggressive,	 and
prone	to	fits	of	temper.

The	Earth	Signs:	Taurus,	Virgo,	and	Capricorn
The	earth	signs	are	the	most	practical	of	the	four	types	and	are	associated	with
the	senses	and	the	empirical	gathering	of	data.	Their	view	of	the	world	tends	to
be	 pragmatic,	 with	 a	 concern	 for	 what	 is	 tangible	 and	 concrete.	 Defining,
placing,	and	working	within	practical	limits	is	one	of	their	primary	tasks,	and	as
a	result	they	are	devoted	to	their	work	and	imbued	with	a	strong	sense	of	duty
and	 responsibility.	 When	 negative,	 they	 can	 show	 a	 tendency	 to	 be	 overly
materialistic,	neurotic	about	trivial	details	and	order,	and	unable	to	comprehend
and	embrace	new	ideas.
In	terms	of	the	ideal,	Taurus	works	for	itself	and	personal	gain,	relying	on	its

own	 resources	 and	 talents.	 Virgo	 works	 for	 others,	 utilizing	 their	 skills	 to
augment	its	own.	And	Capricorn	works	for	society	or	mankind	as	a	whole.

The	Air	Signs:	Gemini,	Libra,	and	Aquarius



The	 air	 signs	 represent	 various	 phases	 and	 forms	 of	 personal	 and	 social
interrelationships.	They	are	associated	with	communication,	intellectual	activity,
and	 social	 agreements,	 customs,	 and	 manners.	 The	 air	 signs	 are	 primarily
concerned	 with	 mental	 abilities	 and	 intellectual	 attributes	 in	 one	 form	 or
another.
In	Gemini,	this	intellectualism	shows	itself	as	an	ability	to	obtain,	utilize,	and

communicate	 factual	 information.	 In	Libra,	 these	 qualities	 are	 used	 to	weigh,
balance,	and	make	comparisons,	while	in	Aquarius	we	see	an	intuitive	grasp	of
principles	 and	 ideas	 and	 how	 they	 apply	 to	 the	 general	welfare	 of	 humanity.
When	negative,	air	signs	can	be	mercurial,	indecisive,	and	mentally	fragmented.

The	Water	Signs:	Cancer,	Scorpio,	and	Pisces
The	water	signs	are	associated	with	the	subconscious,	with	feelings	and	psychic
forces.	They	 are	 receptive	 and	 able	 to	 penetrate	 the	 hidden	meanings	 of	 life's
mysteries.	Protective	by	nature,	they	are	able	to	shelter	others,	relieve	suffering,
and	provide	the	necessities	of	life.
Cancer	 is	 the	 mother	 and	 the	 home.	 Scorpio	 is	 the	 mutual	 exchange	 and

support	 that	 occurs	 in	 close	 relationships,	 with	 strong	 feelings	 about	 joint
resources,	death,	and	the	occult	mysteries	of	life.	Pisces	represents	the	altruistic
care	 of	 others,	 nourishment	 on	 the	 broadest	 possible	 scale,	 strong	 mystical
feelings	 about	 the	 Infinite,	 and	 the	 unconscious	 ability	 to	 communicate
telepathically	with	others.
When	 negative,	 the	 water	 signs	 can	 be	 excessively	 emotional,	 insular,

secretive,	 possessive,	 and	 capable	 of	 using	 their	 considerable	 powers	 of
empathy	and	psychic	receptivity	to	beguile	and	manipulate	others.

The	Signs	and	Their	Qualities
In	 addition	 to	 the	 four	 elements	 that	 form	 three	 triads,	 the	 signs	 are	 further
classified	into	three	qualities	of	four	signs	each:	cardinal,	or	initiating;	fixed,	or
synthesizing;	and	mutable,	or	modifying.	These	are:
Cardinal:	Aries,	Cancer,	Libra,	and	Capricorn
Fixed:	Taurus,	Leo,	Scorpio,	and	Aquarius
Mutable:	Gemini,	Virgo,	Sagittarius,	and	Pisces
The	 four	 signs	 of	 each	 quality	 are	 of	 different	 elements	 (we	 could	 say
psychology),	 but	 they	 share	 in	 a	 complementary	 purpose,	 distinct	 from	 one
another	 yet	 part	 of	 the	 same	 process,	 like	 the	 four	 seasons.	The	 four	 signs	 of
each	 quality	 form	 a	 mandala,	 or	 cosmic	 cross.	 These	 crosses	 represent	 three



basic	areas	of	experience,	learning,	and	growth,	the	crosses	that	we	all	must	bear
in	what	is	known	as	the	“process	of	individuation,”	of	becoming	and	being.
Corresponding	 to	 the	 solstices	 and	 the	 equinoxes	 is	 the	 cardinal	 cross	 of

Aries,	Cancer,	Libra,	and	Capricorn.	It	begins	with	fire	and	ends	with	earth.	The
second,	 the	 fixed	 cross	 of	 Taurus,	 Leo,	 Scorpio,	 and	 Aquarius,	 begins	 with
earth	 and	 ends	 with	 air.	 The	 third,	 the	 mutable	 cross	 of	 Gemini,	 Virgo,
Sagittarius,	and	Pisces,	begins	with	air	and	concludes	in	water.	The	deep	waters
of	 Pisces,	 the	 last	 sign	 of	 the	 Zodiac,	 contain	 the	 basic	 elements	 of	 life	 that
spring	forth	in	the	sign	immediately	following	it,	Aries,	 the	sign	of	the	fire	of
individuality	 (and	 of	 spring),	 of	 the	 I	 am	what	 am,	 the	 beginning	 of	 the	 new
cycle,	 the	 start	 of	 a	 new	 turn	of	 the	Great	Wheel.	 In	 this	 sense,	Pisces	 is	 not
only	the	end,	but	also	the	beginning.

The	Cardinal	Signs:	Aries,	Cancer,	Libra,	and	Capricorn
The	 cardinal	 signs	 are	 associated	 with	 creation,	 initiation,	 action,	 challenge,
trial,	burdens,	support,	influence,	and	strength.	Aries	is	selfhood	and	the	desire
for	its	immediate	expression	and	expansion.	Cancer	is	security,	foundation,	and
depth.	Libra	is	concerned	with	relationships	and	breadth,	while	Capricorn	is	the
attainment	of	goals	and	height.	These	signs	represent	the	role	of	the	individual
in	public	affairs	and	social	conflicts.	Their	power	is	apparent,	overt,	and	exoteric
rather	 than	 covert	 and	 esoteric.	 Their	 primary	 impulses	 are	 directed	 toward
individual	security	and	freedom.
Aries	and	Libra	have	to	do	with	individuality	and	its	striving	to	broaden	its

horizons	 and	 find	 a	 complementary	 partner,	 of	 the	 self	 coming	 to	 meet	 the
other,	 of	 individual	 expansion,	 projection,	 exploration,	 and	 discovery.	Cancer
and	Capricorn	are	 the	maternal	and	paternal,	 respectively.	Cancer	 is	 the	home
and	the	mother—insular,	nurturing,	and	protective.	Capricorn	is	the	father,	his
means	of	provision,	and	the	rules	of	society	that	ensure	his	position	in	it	and	its
order	and	success.

The	Fixed	Signs:	Taurus,	Leo,	Scorpio,	and	Aquarius
Keywords	associated	with	 the	 fixed	 signs	are	 empowerment,	 execution,	order,
direction,	 experience,	 accumulation,	 insemination,	 evaluation,	 and	 endurance.
Taurus	acquires	and	utilizes	the	energies	and	materials	at	its	direct	disposal.	Leo
expresses	 itself	 intuitively	 and	 dramatically	 in	 the	 name	 of	 some	 cause	 or
enterprise.	Scorpio	is	adept	at	using	the	resources	of	others,	particularly	those	of
a	 mate	 or	 partner	 for	 their	 mutual	 benefit.	 Aquarius	 provides	 the	 form	 and
currency	 of	 communication	 and	 ideas	 that	 benefit	 friends	 and	 associations



bound	by	common	 interests.	These	signs	are	concerned	with	shared	 resources,
experiences,	 and	 rewards,	 as	 well	 as	 losses.	 They	 signify	 the	 ideas,	 values,
people,	and	things	that	are	of	fundamental	importance	in	the	individual	quest	for
affirmation	and	self-actualization	in	society	as	a	whole.
Taurus	 and	Scorpio,	 complementary	 signs,	 deal	with	 the	 accumulation	 and

disposal	 of	 resources.	 Each	 reminds	 the	 other	 of	 their	 mutual	 but	 opposite
purpose.	Leo	 and	Aquarius	 face	 the	problems	of	 selfexpression,	 as	 a	 singular
individual	as	Leo	and	in	relationships	and	partnerships	as	Aquarius.

The	Mutable	Signs:	Gemini,	Virgo,	Sagittarius,	and	Pisces
The	 mutable	 signs,	 according	 to	 some	 astrologers,	 are	 the	 product	 of	 a	 later
development	 in	 the	original	Zodiac	from	eight	 to	 twelve	signs.	They	represent
concepts	of	no	interest	to	the	so-called	“common	man.”	Mutability	has	become
associated	 with	 a	 certain	 flexible	 high-mindedness	 and	 transcendence	 beyond
the	concerns	of	self-actualization,	attainment,	and	power.	Among	the	keywords
for	 the	 mutable	 signs	 are	 refinement,	 adjustment,	 dissemination,	 assistance,
rescue,	 repair,	 review,	 application,	 compassion,	 understanding,	 suffering,	 self-
sacrifice,	 and	 utilization.	 The	 mutable	 mindset	 is	 interested	 in	 pursuing	 and
refining	 the	 ideas	 set	 in	 motion	 by	 the	 cardinal	 and	 fixed	 signs.	 It	 develops
rather	than	creates	and	in	so	doing	plants	the	seed	from	which	the	cardinal	and
fixed	signs	can	begin	once	again	to	create	anew.	The	power	of	the	mutable	signs
is	 based	on	 the	 accumulated	 achievements	 and	knowledge	of	 the	 cardinal	 and
fixed	signs.	 It	 is	covert	and	esoteric,	based	on	reason	and	 judgment	of	all	 that
has	 come	 before	 it.	 Its	 discoveries,	 revelations,	 and	 innovations	 find	 their
expression	 in	 the	 cardinal	 sign	 that	 follow	 it,	 referring	 us	 back	 to	 the	 Pisces-
Aries	 relationship	 I	 mentioned	 earlier.	 The	 mutable	 signs	 represent	 the	 final
stage	in	the	development	of	our	basic	drives	and	values	toward	a	higher	ideal	on
the	physical,	mental,	emotional,	and	spiritual	planes.	The	mutable	signs	take	the
inspiration	of	 the	cardinal	signs	and	the	concrete	boundaries	of	 the	fixed	signs
and	refine	and	expand	them	with	a	view	to	the	future.
Gemini	 and	 Sagittarius	 are	 concerned	 with	 the	 intellect,	 the	 accumulation

and	 relationship	 of	 ideas,	 and	 journeying	 into	 new	 and	 foreign	 realms,	 both
physically	 and	mentally.	 They	 are	 the	 travelers,	 concerned	with	mobility	 and
learning.	 Gemini	 acquires	 information,	 and	 Sagittarius	 takes	 it	 and	 expands
upon	it,	infusing	it	with	new	ideas	and	insights	gleaned	along	the	way.	Gemini
is	 the	 wandering	minstrel,	 the	 vagabond	 poet	 collecting	 stories	 to	 tell,	 while
Sagittarius	 is	 the	 serious	 explorer,	 traveling	 with	 a	 lot	 more	 luggage	 and
equipment	and	sedulously	making	notes.	Virgo	is	the	traveling	merchant,	filled



with	practical	and	commercial	goals,	the	Marco	Polo	of	the	Zodiac,	and	Pisces
is	the	pilgrim	on	the	solitary,	holy	journey.	Each	has	a	remarkable	story	to	tell.
The	role	of	the	mutable	signs	is	to	serve,	aid,	heal,	and	support,	to	give	rather
than	 take.	 The	 mandala	 or	 cross	 formed	 by	 these	 four	 signs	 is	 that	 of	 self-
understanding	and	self-sacrifice,	of	Buddha's	suffering	and	enlightenment,	and
Christ's	crucifixion	for	his	ideals—based	on	the	fixed	signs'	principles	of	love,
spiritual	 freedom,	 and	 sharing—upon	 the	 cardinal	 cross	 of	 established
authority.



CHAPTER	2
The	Planets

The	 planets	 can	 be	 viewed	 as	 core	 components	 of	 the	 personality	 that	 is
expressed	 by	 the	 signs	 in	 which	 they	 are	 found.	 An	 understanding	 of	 the
personality	 traits	 that	 each	 planet	 represents,	 coupled	 with	 what	 you	 have
learned	 about	 the	 signs,	will	 help	 you	 build	 a	 basic	 picture	 of	 the	 personality
represented	by	 the	horoscope.	 In	 this	 chapter,	we	will	 explore	 the	qualities	 of
each	planet	 including	its	“dignities,”	which	help	you	determine	 the	strength	of
the	planet's	 influence	 in	 the	horoscope,	 and	 its	mythology.	We	will	 also	 learn
what	it	means	when	a	planet	is	“afflicted.”

The	Sun	and	the	Moon	
Both	the	Sun	and	the	Moon	are	of	primary	importance	in	astrological	analysis.
The	 Sun	 represents	 our	 vital	 force,	 conscious	 purpose,	 and	 self-expression.	 It
denotes	 our	 essential	 character	 and	 convictions.	 It	 is	 associated	 with	 the
masculine,	 the	 active	 or	 yang	 principle—the	 father,	 consciousness,	 and	 solar
light	or	radiance.
The	Moon	indicates	our	emotional	responses	to	life's	situations,	the	attitudes

instilled	by	 family	 and	early	 childhood,	 and	how	 those	 formative	 experiences
color	our	 emotional	outlook.	 It	 represents	 attitudes	 toward	women	 in	general,
domestic	 and	 daily	 life,	 and	 eating	 habits	 and	 preferences.	 It	 represents	 the
threshold	 of	 the	 unconscious,	 inherited	 traits,	 survival	 instincts,	 sentiments,
emotional	 attachments,	 and	 empathy	 with	 one's	 environment.	 It	 reflects	 the
rapidly	changing	or	fluctuating	moods	we	are	subject	to,	the	daily	ebb	and	flow
of	 the	 tides.	 It	 is	 the	 feminine,	 receptive,	 or	 yin	 principle—	 mother,
nourishment,	shelter,	security,	fecundity,	and	family	tradition.	The	Moon	passes
through	a	sign	approximately	every	two	days.

Mercury	
Mercury	in	a	sign	describes	the	means	by	which	we	communicate	and	adapt	to
daily	 life.	 Mercury	 shows	 how	 the	 characteristics	 of	 the	 sign	 it's	 located	 in
influence	 thinking	 and	 communication,	 the	 way	 all	 creative	 powers	 of	 the
individual	 are	 manifested	 and	 directed.	 Mercury	 is	 the	 ruler	 of	 the	 thinking
process,	and	its	sign	position	reveals	the	psychological	patterns	and	perceptions
that	determine	the	ability	to	make	judgments	and	decisions	and	convey	ideas	to



others,	 as	 well	 as	 the	 areas	 of	 concern	 that	 are	 of	 primary	 importance	 to	 the
particular	 individual.	 Mercury	 takes	 roughly	 365	 days	 to	 move	 through	 the
Zodiac	and	is	rarely	far	from	the	sign	in	which	the	Sun	is	located.	If	it's	not	in
the	same	sign	as	 the	Sun,	 it's	usually	 in	either	 the	sign	preceding	or	 following
the	Sun.

Venus	
Venus	is	more	or	less	an	indicator	of	the	type	of	ideal	mate	or	partner	to	whom
we	 are	 likely	 to	 be	 attracted.	 Venus	 in	 the	 signs	 shows	 how	 we	 express	 our
emotions	 in	 love	and	marriage.	 It	 can	also	provide	 insight	 into	attitudes	about
money,	personal	possessions,	creature	comforts,	and	aesthetic	and	social	values.
Like	Mercury,	Venus	also	travels	along	with	the	Sun,	making	its	transit	through
the	Zodiac	in	about	225	days.	Venus	can	be	as	far	as	two	signs	away	from	the
Sun	sign.

Mars	
Mars	 is	 an	 indicator	 of	 the	 nature	 of	 our	 personal	 drives	 and	 energies.	 The
position	of	Mars	reveals	far	more	about	our	actual	sex	drive	or	libido	than	does
Venus.	The	sign	 in	which	 it's	 found	describes	 the	way	we	act	when	motivated
by	our	desire.	It	also	describes	the	nature	of	our	ambition	and	the	type	of	work
we	are	 inclined	 to	do.	Desire,	 impulsive	 action,	 and	 assertive	 energy	 can	 lead
into	 danger,	 and	 the	 position	 of	Mars	 can	 also	 imply	 the	 type	 of	 danger	 and
violence	we	may	encounter	or	generate.	Mars	 takes	 roughly	 two	 to	 two	and	a
half	years	to	move	through	all	the	signs	of	the	Zodiac.

Jupiter	
Jupiter	 embodies	 our	 ideals.	 Jupiter's	 position	 shows	 the	 nature	 of	 our	moral,
religious,	 and	 philosophical	 beliefs.	 It	 shows	 how	we	 express	 generosity	 and
sharing	and	what	benefits	we	receive	 in	return.	 It	 indicates	not	only	where	we
are	 likely	 to	 receive	 financial	 and	 material	 benefits,	 but	 also	 how	 we	 have
earned	 the	 goodwill	 of	 others.	 Jupiter,	 as	 coruler	 of	Pisces	 (see	 page	37	 for	 a
discussion	on	planetary	 rulerships),	 shows	 the	means	by	which	we	receive	 the
karmic	rewards	for	past	good	deeds,	as	well	how	we	manifest	our	compassion
and	generosity	 toward	 those	 less	 fortunate.	 Jupiter	 takes	about	 twelve	years	 to
make	a	complete	cycle	through	the	Zodiac.

Saturn	
Saturn	indicates	 the	areas	of	strong	personal	responsibilities.	Saturn	is	actually



referred	 to	 by	 some	 astrologers	 as	 “the	 grim	 reaper,”	 but	 it's	 probably	 more
helpful	 to	 look	 at	 Saturn	 as	 the	 cosmic	 teacher.	 It	 takes	 twenty-nine	 years	 to
complete	its	cycle	through	the	Zodiac.	Saturn	shows	the	ways	in	which	we	must
take	responsibility	and	learn	the	importance	of	discipline	and	working	positively
within	 life's	 limitations,	which	give	concrete	 shape	 to	being	and	 things	on	 the
earthly	plane.	It	shows	the	burdens	that	we	must	carry	and	the	lessons	we	must
learn.	It	also	indicates	the	kind	of	work	to	which	we	are	suited.	Saturn's	position
shows	where	we	 are	most	 likely	 to	 experience	 difficulties	 and	 limitations	 and
how	 an	 idea	 is	 physically	 actualized	 through	 willpower,	 patience,	 and	 hard
work.	The	affairs	ruled	by	the	sign	in	which	Saturn	is	placed	will	tend	to	take	on
a	particularly	serious	nature.	These	are	those	areas	and	aspects	of	life	in	which
we	learn	to	cope	with	life's	 travails	in	order	to	make	a	successful	living.	Here,
obstacles	 are	 overcome	on	 the	path	of	 becoming,	 and	we	 come	 into	our	 own.
Saturn's	 placement	 in	 the	 horoscope	 is	 a	 strong	 indicator	 of	 the	 nature	 of	 our
career	path,	the	kind	of	work	we	will	do,	and	the	hardships	and	tests	we	will	go
through	in	order	to	climb	the	mountain	to	recognition	and	status.

Uranus	
Uranus	in	the	horoscope	shows	the	ways	in	which	our	urge	for	individuality	and
freedom	are	manifested.	It	 indicates	the	motivations	behind	our	hopes,	desires,
and	 goals,	 especially	 those	 envisioned	 by	 the	 mind.	 The	 sign	 occupied	 by
Uranus	describes	not	only	our	 friends	but	also	 those	social	areas	of	 life	where
we	take	dynamic	action	and	instigate	change.	Uranus	in	the	signs	shows	how	we
receive	 and	 interpret	 inspiration	 and	 original	 ideas	 from	 the	 collective	 and
universal	 consciousness	 and	 set	 upon	 solving	 life's	 puzzles	 and	 problems.
Uranus	 takes	 seven	 years	 to	 pass	 through	 one	 sign	 of	 the	 Zodiac,	 so	 that
everyone	born	within	 the	same	sevenyear	period	has	Uranus	 in	 the	same	sign,
although	 the	 individual	 house	 position	will	 vary.	The	 sign	 position	 of	Uranus
(and	even	more	so	Neptune	and	Pluto)	is	an	important	indicator	of	generational
differences	 and	 the	 shared	 destiny,	 concerns,	 and	 mores	 of	 a	 large	 group	 of
people,	of	 the	zeitgeist	of	 the	 times	 in	which	 they	are	born	and	what	 they	will
collectively	 set	 in	motion.	The	 sign	position	has	more	historical	 than	personal
significance.	As	with	the	other	“outer	planets”—	Neptune	and	Pluto—Uranus's
sign	position	is	less	important	than	its	house	position	in	denoting	our	personality
and	proclivities	in	regard	to	the	affairs,	attitudes,	and	actions	ruled	by	the	planet.

Neptune	
Neptune	takes	approximately	164	years	to	pass	through	a	complete	cycle	of	the



Zodiac.	 It	 spends	 about	 thirteen	 years	 in	 each	 sign.	 Thus,	 the	 sign	 in	 which
Neptune	is	located	has	more	of	a	generational	significance	than	it	does	personal.
Neptune	 in	 the	signs	shows	 the	kind	of	shared	cultural	expression	 that	will	be
indicative	of	those	born	within	the	same	thirteen-year	period.
The	sign	Neptune	is	in	tells	us	something	about	where	seclusion	and	solitude

will	 be	 sought	 as	 well	 as	 the	 cultural	 and	 creative	 expression	 of	 a	 particular
generation.

Pluto	
Pluto	 is	 the	 slowest	moving	of	 the	planets,	 taking	 approximately	248	years	 to
make	 a	 complete	 transit	 through	 the	 Zodiac.	 It	 has	 an	 eccentric	 orbit,	 which
means	 that	 the	 number	 of	 years	 it	 spends	 in	 each	 sign	 varies	 from	 twelve	 to
thirtytwo.	 Along	 with	 Uranus	 and	 Neptune,	 its	 sign	 position	 is	 more	 of	 a
historical	and	generational	 indicator	 than	a	personal	one.	The	sign	positions	of
Pluto	 are	 of	 great	 historical	 significance,	 as	 it	 is	 the	 planet	 of	 drastic	 and
fundamental	 movements	 and	 upheavals	 that	 bring	 about	 great	 historical	 and
cultural	 change.	 These	 changes	 can	 be	 positive	 or	 negative,	 regenerative	 or
degenerative,	 representative	 either	 of	 the	 principle	 of	 Eros	 (life-affirming
relating)	or	the	principle	of	Thanatos	(death).	Often,	both	effects	are	felt	at	the
same	 time,	 producing	 extremes	 of	 good	 and	 evil,	 life	 and	 death,	 in	 the	 arena
ruled	by	 the	particular	 sign.	For	 example,	 the	 atomic	bomb	ended	 the	Second
World	War	while	 Pluto	was	 in	Leo.	 Pluto	 in	 the	 signs	 always	 brings	 about	 a
radical	and	permanent	 transformation	that	effects	 the	whole	of	civilization.	On
the	 personal	 level,	 Pluto	 shows	 us	 how	 we	 are	 connected	 to	 our	 generation
through	the	values,	mores,	and	social	attitudes	it	adheres	to.

Planetary	Rulership
The	planet	whose	characteristics	have	the	strongest	affinity	with	the	attributes	of
a	particular	sign	is	said	to	be	that	sign's	ruler.	The	ruler	of	a	horoscopic	house	is
the	planet	that	rules	the	sign	appearing	on	the	beginning,	or	cusp,	of	the	house
(see	chapter	3	for	a	complete	discussion	of	the	houses).	Sun	sign	ruler	refers	to
the	planet	 that	 rules	your	birth	 sign.	The	 ruler	of	 the	horoscope	 as	 a	whole	 is
considered	by	most	astrologers	to	be	the	planet	ruling	the	sign	appearing	at	the
beginning	of	the	1st	House—the	Ascendant,	or	rising	sign.	With	the	discovery
of	 the	 outer	 planets	 Uranus,	 Neptune,	 and	 Pluto,	 several	 signs	 were	 assigned
new	rulers.	Table	2	on	page	38	lists	the	signs	and	their	modern	and	traditional
ruling	planets.
There	is	still	some	disagreement	about	the	rulers	of	certain	signs,	and	some



astrologers	continue	to	adhere	to	the	traditional	rulerships.
	

Table	2.	Planetary	Rulerships.
	

Planetary	Dignities
Each	planet	has	two	signs	(or	four,	in	the	case	of	planets	with	dual	rulership)	in
which	it	is	“comfortable”	and	two	in	which	it	is	not.	In	the	horoscope,	when	a
planet	is	found	in	the	sign	that	it	rules,	it	is	said	to	be	in	dignity,	and	it	is	at	its
most	potent	expression.



When	 a	 planet	 appears	 in	 the	 second	 sign	 in	 which	 it	 expresses	 itself
harmoniously,	it	is	said	to	be	in	exaltation.
If	a	planet	is	found	in	the	sign	opposite	of	the	one	that	it	rules,	or	in	which	it

is	dignified,	it	is	said	to	be	in	detriment.	The	planet	is	not	able	to	work	at	its	full
potential	and	takes	on	more	of	the	sign's	attributes	than	its	own.	A	person	with	a
planet	in	detriment	may	feel	that	energy	as	being	in	a	place	where	he	or	she	has
to	follow	someone	else's	game	plan.
When	 a	 planet	 is	 found	 in	 the	 sign	 opposite	 the	 sign	 of	 its	 exaltation,	 the

planet	 is	said	 to	be	in	 fall.	Here,	 the	native	will	have	difficulty	expressing	the
planet's	essential	attributes.
When	 a	 planet	 is	 in	 a	 house	 of	which	 it	 is	 the	 natural	 ruler—for	 example,

Venus	 in	 the	 7th	House,	 or	 the	Sun	 in	 the	 5th—it	 is	 said	 to	 be	 in	accidental
dignity,	or	dignity	by	house.	This	is	the	house	in	which	it	is	most	comfortable
and	therefore	is	more	visible	as	an	active	part	of	the	native's	life	path.	Table	3
on	 pages	 40–41	 shows	 the	 signs	 of	 the	 dignities	 for	 each	 planet.	 The	 signs
appearing	 in	 parentheses	 are	 in	 those	 dignities	 according	 to	 the	 traditional
rulerships	(see	table	2).

	

Table	3.	Planetary	Dignities.
	



	



	

When	you	study	the	planetary	dignities	along	with	the	qualities	of	the	signs,
you	can	see	how	the	nature	of	a	planet	is	either	dampened	or	invigorated	by	the
sign	 it's	 in.	 For	 example,	 Saturn,	 the	 planet	 of	 limitation,	 clashes	 with	 the
impulsive,	 devil-may-care	 Aries	 energy.	 Jupiter,	 the	 planet	 of	 expansion,	 is
constricted	 in	Capricorn,	 the	sign	of	measured	progress.	Uranus,	 the	planet	of
freedom	 and	 innovation,	 finds	 full	 expression	 in	 the	 penetrating	 and



uncompromising	insight	of	Scorpio.
Looking	at	Marlon	Brando's	chart	as	an	example	(see	figure	6,	page	57),	his

natal	 Sun,	 Venus,	 and	 Mars	 are	 exalted	 in	 Aries,	 Taurus,	 and	 Capricorn,
respectively.	 These	 three	 planetary	 positions	 are	 powerful	 in	 his	 chart,
indicating	 a	 highly	 creative	 person	who	 is	 able	 to	 easily	 express	 his	 essence
(Sun)	 and	 channel	 it	 through	 his	 considerable	 drive	 (Mars)	 to	 support	 his
values,	 relationships,	 and	 what	 pleases	 him	 (Venus).	 His	 Ascendant	 is	 in
Sagittarius;	therefore,	the	ruler	of	his	chart	is	Sagittarius's	ruling	planet,	Jupiter,
which	is	also	in	dignity	in	Sagittarius.	So,	in	addition	to	clearly	exhibiting	the
qualities	 of	 his	 Sun,	 Moon,	 and	 Mars,	 Brando's	 personality	 has	 a	 marked
Jupiterian	nature—highly	philosophical,	generous,	and	expansive.	With	Jupiter
in	 the	1st	House,	which	 indicates	 one's	 physical	 presence	 (see	 chapter	 3),	we
can	see	how	Brando,	 in	addition	 to	being	a	 larger-than-life	person,	also	had	a
propensity	toward	weight	gain.

When	a	Planet	Is	“Afflicted”
A	planet	is	considered	to	be	afflicted	when	it	is	placed	in	a	sign	of	its	detriment
or	fall,	in	a	house	in	which	it	finds	difficulty	expressing	itself,	or	when	it	forms
a	challenging	aspect,	such	as	the	square	or	opposition	(see	chapter	4	on	aspects),
with	Mars,	Saturn,	Uranus,	Neptune,	or	Pluto.	Weak	house	placements	 for	 the
Sun,	 for	 example,	would	 be	 in	 the	 houses	 ruled	 by	 the	 signs	 of	 its	 detriment
(Aquarius)	 or	 fall	 (Libra),	 the	 11th	 and	 7th	 Houses,	 respectively.	 In	 Marlon
Brando's	chart,	his	Aries	Moon	could	be	considered	afflicted	by	 the	squares	 it
forms	 to	 Mars	 in	 Capricorn	 and	 Pluto	 in	 Cancer.	 On	 the	 other	 hand,	 the
influences	 of	 the	 carefully	 enduring	 Capricorn	 Mars	 and	 deeply	 nurturing
Cancerian	Pluto	in	his	chart	may	have	had	a	tempering	effect	on	the	impulsive,
emotionally	 self-involved,	 and	 demanding	 nature	 of	 his	 Aries	 Moon.
Furthermore,	Brando's	Moon	is	in	accidental	dignity	in	the	4th	House,	where	its
expression	finds	support.



CHAPTER	3
The	Twelve	Horoscopic	Houses

As	was	stated	in	the	first	chapter,	a	horoscope	is	a	diagram	of	the	solar	system
in	relation	to	a	specific	time	and	place	of	birth	and	is	made	up	of	twelve	sections
called	the	houses.	The	signs	are	reckoned	by	the	Sun's	annual	transit	through	the
four	seasons,	while	the	houses	are	figured	by	the	daily	rotation	of	the	Earth	on
its	axis.	The	planets	“transit,”	or	pass	 through	 the	signs,	and	 the	signs	and	 the
planets	 are	 located	within	 the	 houses.	 There	 is	 a	 correspondence	 between	 the
twelve	signs	and	the	twelve	houses,	due	to	the	elements	and	qualities	they	have
in	common	(refer	to	figure	1	on	page	20,	which	shows	the	“natural	chart,”	with
the	 corresponding	 signs	 placed	 on	 each	 house	 cusp).	 Aries,	 the	 first	 sign,
corresponds	to	the	1st	House,	but	owing	to	the	daily	rotation	of	the	Earth,	Aries
corresponds	to	approximately	two	hours	of	the	1st-House	influence.	A	new	sign,
that	of	Taurus,	will	rise	on	the	cusp	of	the	1st	House	within	two	hours.	Within
twenty-four	hours,	each	sign	will	have	passed	through	all	of	the	twelve	houses.
The	wheel	of	 the	houses	is	divided	into	four	hemispheres:	eastern,	western,

southern,	 and	 northern,	 each	 made	 up	 of	 six	 houses.	 These	 are	 seen	 as	 four
quarters,	 or	 quadrants.	 The	most	 important	 houses	 are	 known	 as	 the	angular
houses;	 they	 correspond	 to	 the	 cardinal	 signs	 and	 are	 therefore	 sometimes
referred	to	as	cardinal.	The	cardinal	houses	are	the	1st	House	(the	Ascendant	or
Rising	Sign),	 the	4th	House	cusp	 (also	known	as	 the	Nadir,	or	 the	 IC—Imum
Coeli—the	 “lowest	 heavens,”	 where	 the	 plane	 of	 the	 meridian	 passes
underneath	 the	 Earth	 and	 intersects	 the	 ecliptic),	 the	 7th	 House	 cusp	 (or
Descendent,	 the	 point	 where	 the	 meridian	 passes	 beneath	 the	 Earth	 and
intersects	 the	 western	 horizon	 ecliptic),	 and	 the	 10th	 House	 or	 Midheaven
(often	 indicated	 as	 the	 MC,	 Medium	 Colei,	 or	 “highest	 heavens”).	 The
Midheaven	is	the	point	where	the	meridian,	passing	from	north	to	south	through
a	point	directly	overhead	 (the	zenith),	 intersects	 the	plane	of	 the	ecliptic.	The
other	eight	houses	are	spaced	between	these	four	angular	house	cusps.
The	1st	House	is	significant	in	that	it	refers	to	our	core	being	more	than	the

other	houses.	The	houses	become	increasingly	impersonal	as	they	proceed	from
the	1st	to	the	12th.	The	nature	of	the	Rising	Sign	is	modified	by	the	horoscope
as	a	whole,	 especially	by	 the	positions	and	aspects	 affecting	 the	planet	 ruling
the	Ascendant,	the	Sun,	the	Moon,	and	any	other	planets	located	within	the	1st
House	 close	 to	 the	Ascendant.	Quite	 often	Mars,	more	 than	 any	other	 planet,
has	an	important	bearing	upon	the	Ascendant,	for	it	has	a	natural	affinity	with



the	1st	House	because	of	 its	 rulership	over	Aries,	 the	 first	 sign	of	 the	Zodiac
and	the	correspondence	of	that	sign	with	the	1st	House.
The	 cusps	 of	 the	 four	 angular	 houses—the	 1st,	 4th,	 7th,	 and	 10th—

correspond	to	6:00	AM,	midnight,	6:00	PM,	and	noon,	respectively	(see	figure	2,
below).	Every	four	minutes	mark	a	new	degree	of	the	Zodiac	to	the	cusp	of	the
1st	House,	the	Ascendant.	Looking	at	the	horoscopic	wheel,	the	four	directions
are	the	reverse	of	the	clock.	The	1st	House	is	the	eastern	horizon;	the	4th	is	the
northern	sector;	the	7th,	the	western	horizon;	the	10th,	the	southern	sector.

	

	

Fig.	2.	The	angular,	or	cardinal	houses.
	



	

Fig.	3.	The	succedent	houses.
	

The	 2nd,	 5th,	 8th,	 and	11th	Houses,	which	 follow	 the	 cardinals,	 are	 called
succedent	houses	and	have	a	strong	affinity	with	the	fixed	signs	(see	figure	3,
above).

	



	

Fig.	4.	The	cadent	houses.
	

The	third	group	of	houses,	known	as	 the	cadent	houses—	the	3rd,	6th,	9th,
and	12th—correspond	to	the	mutable	signs	(see	figure	4,	above).

	



	



	

Fig.	5.	The	houses	and	their	elements.
	

In	terms	of	the	elements,	the	1st,	5th,	and	9th	Houses	are	related	to	the	fire
signs.	The	2nd,	6th,	and	10th	are	associated	with	the	earth	signs;	 the	3rd,	7th,
and	 11th,	with	 the	 air	 signs;	 the	 4th,	 8th,	 and	 12th	with	 the	water	 signs	 (see
figure	5,	pages	50–51).

The	Four	Hemispheres
The	eastern	hemisphere	of	the	Zodiac,	which	includes	the	10th,	11th,	12th,	1st,



2nd,	and	3rd	Houses,	represents	our	projection	of	the	self	into	the	public	sphere
where	there	is	effective	exchange	and	communication	with	others	and	we	glean
personal	rewards.
The	opposite	side	of	the	wheel,	the	western	hemisphere,	which	includes	the

4th,	 5th,	 6th,	 7th,	 8th,	 and	 9th	 Houses,	 relates	 to	 familial	 and	 social
relationships,	marriage,	partnerships,	and	formal	social	ties.	Here,	the	need	for
cooperation	and	tact	in	achieving	our	aims,	working	with	others,	and	the	need
for	 balance	 between	 personal	 feelings	 and	 attachments	 and	 the	 social
requirements	of	adapting	to	others	are	emphasized.
Below	 the	 horizon	 of	 the	 wheel,	 the	 1st	 through	 6th	 Houses	make	 up	 the

northern	 hemisphere,	 representing	 personal	 issues	 related	 to	 childhood,	 the
family,	and	the	clan.	These	are	the	values	and	skills	we	learned	at	an	early	age
from	 our	 family,	 friends,	 and	 society,	 and	 their	 influence	 on	 our	 abilities	 for
creative	 selfexpression.	 The	 role	 of	 the	 mother	 and	 early	 family	 life	 and
environment	are	emphasized	here.	In	the	eastern	hemisphere,	the	emphasis	is	on
the	expression	of	individual	will;	in	the	western	half,	cooperation	and	formal	or
objective	relationships	with	others	are	represented.	In	the	northern	hemisphere,
we	see	the	emotional	foundations	for	survival.
The	last	hemisphere,	the	southern,	is	concerned	with	less	subjective	aspects

than	the	northern.	It	is	social	and	public	rather	than	personal	and	familial.	When
we	have	a	majority	of	planets	in	the	7th,	8th,	9th,	10th,	11th,	and	12th	Houses,
the	indication	is	that	we	may	well	reach	public	prominence	or	celebrity	in	some
way.	 Here,	 we	 see	 the	 personal	 drive	 for	 power,	 recognition,	 honor,	 and
influence,	whether	for	good	or	bad.	This	is	the	hemisphere	where	we	are	most
visible—and	vulnerable—to	 the	public	eye.	Those	aspects	associated	with	 the
father	 (career,	ambition,	authority,	 law,	and	honor)	are	determining	factors,	 in
contrast	 to	 the	 insular	 and	 matriarchal	 concerns	 of	 the	 opposite	 hemisphere,
where	the	emphasis	is	on	nourishment.
The	planet	that	most	accurately	represents	the	southern	hemisphere	is	Saturn;

Mars	the	eastern	hemisphere;	the	Moon	the	northern	hemisphere;	and	Venus	the
western.	This	is	due	to	the	fact	that	these	are	also	the	natural	rulers	of	the	four
angular,	 or	 cardinal,	 houses	 (the	 10th,	 1st,	 4th,	 and	 7th,	 respectively),	 which
form	 the	 basic	 framework	 for	 the	 other	 houses	 of	 the	 horoscope.	 This
quaternary	principle	 is	 the	archetype	by	which	we	give	order	 to	reality.	There
are	 four	 seasons,	 four	 cardinal	 directions,	 four	 elements,	 four	 sides	 to	 a
pyramid,	and	four	psychological	types.
The	planets	and	the	signs	they	occupy	in	a	hemisphere	show	what	struggles

an	individual	must	go	through	in	order	 to	realize	his	or	her	full	potential.	The



signs	in	the	hemispheres	change	by	six	houses	each	day.	A	new	sign	appears	on
the	eastern	horizon	approximately	every	two	hours,	altering	the	overall	picture.
Therefore,	two	people	born	twelve	hours	apart	on	the	same	day	and	in	the	same
place	will	 have	 planets	 in	 opposite	 hemispheres.	Although	 their	 lives	will	 be
similar	in	many	ways,	one	will	be	more	objectively	oriented	and	the	other	more
subjectively	inclined.

The	Quadrants
The	 horoscopic	wheel	 is	 also	 divided	 into	 four	 quadrants.	 The	 first	 quadrant,
consisting	 of	 the	 1st,	 2nd,	 and	 3rd	 Houses,	 corresponds	 to	 spring	 and	 the
emergence	 of	 individuality.	 It	 is	 here	 that	 basic	 values	 and	 ideas	 are	 formed.
This	 is	 the	 quadrant	 of	 greatest	 spontaneity	 and	 individuality,	 where	 native
intelligence,	adaptability,	and	communication	all	work	for	our	best	 interests.	It
is	the	quadrant	in	which	we	determine	what	we	wish	to	be	in	life.	Here,	also,	the
mother	and	early	childhood	are	important	formative	factors.
The	second	quadrant,	made	up	of	 the	4th,	5th,	and	6th	Houses,	shows	how

we	go	about	producing	that	which	will	bring	security	both	to	ourselves	and	our
family.	It	describes	the	means	by	which	we	secure	more	permanent	foundations
and	 establish	 connections	 with	 the	 family	 and	 society.	 This	 quadrant	 is	 the
home	and	the	workplace,	those	places	that	are	the	basis	of	our	security.
In	 the	 third	quadrant,	 the	7th,	8th,	and	9th	Houses,	 the	 security	 sought	and

established	 in	 the	 second	quadrant	 is	 extended	 to	 include	our	mate	or	partner
and	those	with	whom	we	form	partnerships.	Within	this	autumnal	quadrant	are
the	 seeds	 of	 fulfillment	 through	 finding	 a	 suitable	 complement	 to	 our	 own
talents,	 resources,	 and	 desires,	 both	 physically	 and	 mentally.	 This	 is	 the
quadrant	 of	 relationships,	 alliances,	 and	 individual	 expansion	 into	 new
experiences,	 where	 personal	 horizons	 are	 broadened	 and	 new	 challenges	 are
met.
The	cusp	of	 the	10th	House,	 the	Midheaven,	begins	 the	 last	quadrant.	This

marks	the	highest	individual	achievement	we	can	attain.	This	is	where	the	Sun
would	be	at	noon,	at	 its	zenith.	 In	 this	quadrant,	 relationships	are	 formed	 that
will	further	our	standing	and	extend	our	success	as	widely	as	possible.	Here	is
the	hope	of	realizing	our	aspirations	and	where	objective	relationships	are	more
important	than	personal	or	subjective	ones.
Mars	is	most	like	the	first	quadrant,	the	Moon	like	the	second,	Venus	like	the

third,	and	Saturn	like	the	fourth.	Here	are	the	four	seasons	of	life	in	which	crops
are	planted,	cultivated,	harvested,	and	utilized.

Angular,	Succedent,	and	Cadent	Houses	and	Life	Passages



The	 angular	 houses	 represent	 the	 beginning	 of	 the	 four	 phases	 of	 human
experience:	the	individual	or	personal,	the	familial	or	tribal,	the	social	or	public,
and	the	universal	or	cosmopolitan.
In	 the	 succedent	 houses	 following	 the	 angular	 houses,	 values	 are	 defined,

realized,	 transformed,	or	adapted	 to	 the	 resources	necessary	 for	our	growth	 in
each	particular	quadrant.
The	final	stage	in	each	quadrant	is	described	by	the	cadent	houses.	Here,	the

impulses	described	 in	 the	angular	houses	are	organized	and	adapted	 to	satisfy
immediate	needs,	whether	they	are	material	gain,	friendship,	or	sexual	release.
The	cadent	houses	also	relate	to	such	matters	as	communication	of	values	and
ideas,	 the	 acquisition	 of	 practical	 skills,	 travel	 to	 foreign	 lands,	 and
compassionate	acts	for	others.

Getting	to	Know	the	Houses
The	 houses	 represent	 the	 various	 departments	 of	 life.	 Each	 house	 is	 its	 own
particular	arena,	and	each	planet	within	the	house	represents	an	opportunity	or	a
challenge	 according	 to	 the	 meaning	 of	 the	 house,	 the	 planet,	 and	 the	 sign
occupying	the	house.	Several	planets	in	a	house	indicate	different	levels,	phases,
or	experiences	related	to	the	area	of	life	represented	by	the	house.
When	there	are	no	planets	in	a	house,	you	look	at	the	sign	appearing	on	the

house	cusp	and	then	to	the	position	of	the	planet	ruling	the	sign;	you	would	also
look	at	where	the	ruler	of	the	house	in	the	“natural”	horoscope	is	located	in	the
chart	and	meld	all	of	these	symbols	into	a	story.	Marlon	Brando's	chart	(figure
6,	 on	 page	 57)	 is	 a	 great	 example,	 because	 his	 7th	 House,	 relating	 to
partnerships—	 which	 most	 people	 want	 to	 know	 about	 in	 any	 astrological
consultation—is	“empty,”	and	we	all	know	that	Brando's	love	life	was	certainly
not!	Gemini	is	on	the	cusp	of	Brando's	7th	House,	however,	and	Gemini's	ruler,
Mercury,	is	located	in	the	5th	House.	The	ruler	of	the	“natural”	7th	House	(the
house	 of	 Libra)	 is	 Venus—in	 dignity	 in	 Taurus—in	 Brando's	 6th	 house,
accounting	 for	 his	 highly	 sensual	 appeal	 in	 his	 work.	 Working	 with	 the
symbolism	 of	 all	 these	 elements,	 you	 could	 venture	 that	 here	 was	 a	 person
inclined	 to	 have	 diverse	 partnerships	 (Gemini,	 7th	 House)	 that	 would	 spring
from	 romantic	 affairs	 (5th	House)	 in	his	work	 (6th	House)	 involving	creative
selfexpression	(5th	House).	Coupled	with	his	Sagittarius	(foreign	lands,	travel)
Ascendant	 (also	 important	 regarding	marriages,	 as	 it	 opposes	 the	 7th	House),
you	 could	 also	 venture	 to	 guess	 that	 his	 partners	 would	 tend	 to	 be	 from	 a
different	land.	Indeed,	none	of	Brando's	three	wives	were	American,	each	was
an	actress,	and	each	was	pregnant	at	the	time	of	marriage.	How	Brando	tended



to	handle	 these	 relationships	 is	 revealed	 in	 the	aspects	 (see	chapter	4)	 formed
between	 the	 planets.	 Once	 you	 get	 acquainted	 with	 the	 meaning	 of	 the
individual	 houses,	 you,	 too,	 will	 be	 able	 to	 glimpse	 the	 image-story	 in	 the
astrological	symbolism.

	

	

Fig.	6.	Marlon	Brando,	born	April	3,	1924,	11:00	PM	CST	Omaha,	Nebraska.
(Chart	provided	courtesy	of	Seven	Stars	bookstore	using	Solar	Fire	software.)

The	1st	House



	
Sign:	Aries
Co-Rulers:	Mars	and	Pluto
The	1st	House	is	also	the	Ascendant.	The	sign	on	the	cusp	of	the	1st	House	is
the	Rising	Sign.	It	is	the	most	important	house	cusp	and	the	most	sensitive	in	the
horoscope.	 It	 is	 related	 to	Aries	 and	 describes	 the	 persona,	 the	 “I	 am”	 of	 the
individual.	Thus,	the	sign	rising	on	the	1st	House	cusp	describes	self-awareness,
the	means	and	 form	of	selfexpression,	 temperament,	and	how	experiences	and
stimuli	 are	 assimilated,	 interpreted,	 and	 responded	 to.	 Self-interest	 is	 most
readily	 identified	by	 the	 sign	 that	 is	 ascending.	The	1st	House	 also	 represents
our	physical	appearance,	especially	 the	head	and	upper	part	of	 the	face.	 In	 the
1st	House,	 instincts	and	 intuition	are	more	 important	 than	feelings	of	empathy
(the	 4th	 House)	 and	 reason	 (the	 7th	 House).	 The	 1st	 House	 represents	 the
beginning,	 the	 formative	 experiences	 of	 early	 childhood	 (both	 good	 and	 bad)
that	help	define	the	personality.
When	 you're	 tackling	 a	 horoscope	 interpretation,	 try	 to	 encompass	 the

meanings	 of	 the	 most	 important	 indicators	 of	 the	 individual's	 self—the	 1st
House	and	Rising	Sign,	Mars,	Sun,	and	Moon.	While	the	1st	House,	Mars,	and
the	 Rising	 Sign	 denote	 the	 outward	 persona,	 the	 Sun's	 position	 indicates	 the
deeper	will	and	sense	of	purpose.	The	Moon's	position	serves	to	further	modify
the	self	as	defined	by	the	Sun's	position	(inner	self	)	and	the	Rising	Sign	(outer
self	).

	
EXAMPLE

	
Marlon	Brando's	chart	shows	the	Sun	and	Moon	in	Aries	at	the	time	of	his	birth.
Here	is	the	potential	to	be	a	natural	leader,	with	thoughts	(Sun,	consciousness)
and	 feelings	 (Moon)	 harmonious	 with	 the	 actions	 taken.	 This	 is	 a	 dynamic
individual	 who	 loves	 action	 and	 is	 ardent,	 aggressive,	 and	 commanding,	 and
makes	others	aware	of	these	qualities	in	himself.	These	qualities	of	character	are
generally	beneficial,	but	at	times	can	cause	trouble	as	a	result	of	impulsiveness,
impatience,	and	the	need	to	prove	himself	by	rushing	headlong	toward	danger.



Furthermore,	 at	 the	 time	 of	Brando's	 birth,	 Sagittarius	was	 on	 the	 horizon.
Sagittarius's	 ruler,	 Jupiter,	 is	 located	 in	 the	 1st	 House,	 further	 emphasizing
Brando's	 Sagittarian	 qualities.	 Sagittarians	 project	 optimism,	 joviality,
friendliness,	and	a	keen	interest	in	the	world	around	them,	although	they	have	a
tendency	 to	 think	 solely	 in	 terms	of	 their	 own	affairs	 and	concerns.	They	are
ambitious	 on	 a	 grand	 scale,	 and	 their	 power	 lies	 in	 their	 ability	 to	 influence
people	 to	 think	 and	 act	 in	 a	 way	 that	 is	 to	 their	 own	 personal	 advantage.
Although	they	often	take	things	for	granted,	their	energetic	optimism	is	often	a
source	of	inspiration	to	those	around	them.	Sagittarius	rising	indicates	a	life	that
is	very	dualistic,	divided	dramatically	into	fluctuating	situations	of	success	and
failure.	 If	 his	 mind	 can	 be	 raised	 above	 the	 common	 and	 trivial	 to	 more
profound	 subjects	 and	 concerns,	 his	 intellect	 will	 become	 very	 philosophical
and	attracted	 to	 law	and	peace,	with	 an	 intuitive	human	understanding	 that	 is
able	to	advise	and	assist	others.	Here	is	a	life	that	will	be	colored	by	impulsive
and	 stubborn	 personal	 tendencies,	 with	 an	 inclination	 to	 go	 to	 extremes.
Brando's	 involvement	with	 the	 rights	 of	Native	Americans	 and	 his	 refusal	 to
accept	an	Oscar	for	his	role	in	The	Godfather	is	a	manifestation	of	this	energy.
Sagittarius	gives	a	strong	love	of	nature	and	makes	the	individual	somewhat

extroverted,	 demonstrative,	 and	 passionate,	 falling	 in	 love	 frequently	 and
without	 reservations.	 The	Sagittarian	Ascendant's	 romantic	 life	 is	 intense	 and
varied,	and	his	 lovers	may	find	him	difficult	 to	understand.	He	will	appear	as
passionate	and	energetic,	but	as	a	 result	of	 the	mutability	of	 the	sign,	 there	 is
also	an	opposite	 tendency	that	 leads	away	from	involvement	in	the	love	affair
due	to	an	inner	concern	with	personal	freedom.
The	sign	of	Sagittarius	inclines	people	to	exist	in	environments	in	which	the

physical	 body,	 emotions,	 and	 thoughts	 are	 allowed	 total	 freedom	 for
development.	 On	 a	 higher,	 intellectual	 level	 there	 is	 an	 inclination	 to	 be
preoccupied	with	 the	 deep	 complexities	 of	 philosophy,	metaphysics,	 religion,
and	 law.	 Versatile	 and	 intellectual,	 this	 is	 an	 individual	 who	 requires	 both
intellectual	and	physical	exercise.	Brando's	total	involvement	in	Method	acting
was	an	especially	adept	use	of	this	Ascendant.
Jupiter	 in	 the	 1st	 House	 indicates	 that	 success	 in	 life	 is	 achieved	 through

personal	effort	and	merit,	that	dignity	and	respectability	are	attained	by	strength
of	personality.	This	individual's	temperament	is	innately	honest,	truthful,	kind,
and	 courageous,	 projecting	 spontaneity,	 frankness,	 and	 a	 benign	good	humor.
The	downside	of	 the	1st-House	Jupiter	 is	 the	tendency	toward	weight	gain,	as
Jupiter	 is	 the	planet	 of	 expansion	 and	 the	1st	House	 is	 related	 to	 appearance.
Additionally,	 there	 is	 an	 easy	 connection	 (trine,	 see	 chapter	 4)	 to	 his	 Moon



(nurturing)	 in	 Aries	 (impulsiveness),	 furthering	 his	 chances	 for	 weight	 gain.
Yet,	it	is	a	testament	to	Jupiter's	benevolence	that	he	was	able	to	turn	even	this
seeming	“liability”	into	an	asset.	Tempering	Brando's	impulsive,	fiery	nature	is
his	Mars	 in	Capricorn	 in	 the	 2nd	House,	 as	Capricorn's	 natural	 reserve	 has	 a
restrictive	 effect	 on	Mars.	However,	 the	 earthy,	 enduring	nature	 of	Capricorn
gives	him	the	steady	energy	to	carry	his	fire.

The	2nd	House

	
Sign:	Taurus
Ruler:	Venus
The	2nd	House	deals	with	the	material	resources	required	to	sustain	the	self	as
defined	in	the	1st	House.	Where	the	key	phrase	for	the	1st	House	is	“I	am,”	the
key	 phrase	 here	 is	 “I	 have.”	 Taurus	 is	 a	 fixed	 earth	 sign,	 and	 the	 resources
necessary	to	sustain	personal	existence	are	drawn	from	the	earth.	The	2nd	House
is	 concerned	 with	 our	 ability	 to	 earn	 money	 in	 order	 to	 acquire	 material
possessions,	as	well	as	how	many	and	of	what	kind.	In	the	natal	chart,	the	sign
on	 the	 2nd	House	 cusp	 (its	 ruler)	 and	 the	 planets	 positioned	within	 the	 house
itself,	as	well	as	any	planets	in	Taurus,	the	position	of	Venus	(the	natural	2nd-
House	 ruler),	 and	 any	 aspects	 to	 the	 2nd-House	 planets,	 all	 contribute	 to
determining	how	we	acquire	and	utilize	money	and	material	resources.	Because
they	 form	 an	 integral	 part	 of	 the	 personality,	 the	 things	 of	 the	 2nd	House	 are
often	called	“moveable	resources.”	Wherever	we	go	in	life,	we	should	be	either
able	to	take	or	obtain	those	things	that	are	essential	to	our	sustenance.
This	is	the	second	house	of	the	first	quadrant.	The	second	house	of	the	next

quadrant,	the	5th	House,	also	indicates	resources,	but	there	it	is	the	riches	of	the
mother,	family,	clan,	or	heritage.

	
EXAMPLE

	
Marlon	 Brando's	 chart	 shows	 Capricorn	 on	 the	 2nd	 House	 cusp.	 Here,	 the



Sagittarian	Ascendant	 adventurous	nature	 is	 applied	 to	 ambitious,	 responsible,
and	 practical	 dealings	 with	 money	 and	 its	 use	 for	 acquiring	 things	 that	 have
lasting	 value.	 Mars	 located	 here	 indicates	 that	 his	 actions	 were	 focused	 on
securing	personal	resources	and	that	he	probably	had	great	physical	endurance
from	an	innate	skill	for	expending	his	energy	in	due	measure.

The	3rd	House

	
Sign:	Gemini
Ruler:	Mercury
Conscious	thought	and	perception	are	the	domain	of	the	3rd	House,	and	here	the
key	 phrase	 is	 “I	 think.”	 Gemini,	 the	 3rd-House	 sign,	 is	 ruled	 by	 Mercury,
making	this	 the	house	concerned	with	assimilating,	processing,	and	dispensing
information.	It	is	the	house	of	the	practical	mind	and	the	basic	opportunities	we
are	given	to	learn	the	essentials	of	communication	and	the	exchange	of	ideas.	It
is	also	 the	house	of	brothers	and	sisters,	childhood	 friends,	neighbors,	and	so-
called	accidental	or	 informal	 acquaintances.	Having	established	 identity	 in	 the
1st	House,	basic	 tools	and	 resources	 in	 the	2nd,	 in	 the	3rd	House	we	are	now
ready	to	receive	new	information	and	experiences	that	provide	knowledge	to	be
used	in	the	future.	Here,	our	native	intellect	is	tested	and	communication	skills
developed.	 Every	 chance	 encounter	 provides	 an	 opportunity	 for	 this
development	to	take	place	and	build	upon	itself.
Any	planets	in	Gemini,	as	well	as	the	position	of	Mercury,	provide	additional

insight	into	the	3rd	House.	The	planets	found	in	the	3rd	House	and	along	with
the	ruler	of	the	sign	appearing	on	the	natal	chart	cusp,	also	help	in	determining
the	nature	of	the	mentality	at	work	and	the	primary	experiences	in	learning	and
communicating.

	
EXAMPLE

	
Aquarius	on	Brando's	3rd-House	 cusp	 indicates	he	 communicated	his	 ideas	 in



original,	exciting,	and	often	 ingenious	ways.	His	 ideas	would	have	come	from
flashes	of	intuition	and	insight	which	he	was	able	to	put	to	practical	use,	and	his
concerns	were	decidedly	humanitarian	in	outlook.	This	house	placement	points
to	unusual	and	peculiar	relationships	with	brothers,	sisters,	and	neighbors.
Uranus	 appears	 to	 be	 located	 in	 Brando's	 3rd	 House,	 but	 it	 is	 less	 than	 2

degrees	 away	 from	 the	 4th-House	 cusp	 and	would	 therefore	 be	 considered	 to
also	 have	 import	 in	 relation	 to	 4th-House	 matters.	When	 a	 planet	 is	 located
within	3	to	6	degrees	of	an	angular	house	cusp,	it	is	referred	to	as	an	“angular
planet”	and	has	added	influence	in	the	natal	chart.

The	4th	House

	
Sign:	Cancer
Ruler:	The	Moon
The	second	quadrant	begins	with	the	4th	House.	Here	are	contained	the	things
necessary	for	survival—family,	shelter,	and	nourishment	(the	mother).	It	houses
the	 basic	 currents	 of	 the	 personal	 unconscious,	 deeper	 sentiments,	 and	 the
emotional	attachments	 in	which	security	 is	 rooted,	all	of	which	are	essentially
hereditary.
The	4th	House	tells	much	about	how	and	where	we	live,	how	we	are	affected

by	 our	 immediate	 environment,	 and	 the	 kind	 of	 attachments	 we	 have	 to	 our
tribe	or	nation,	as	well	as	our	connections	to	our	past	and	early	childhood.	The
4th	House	is	strongly	associated	with	early	childhood,	the	beginning	of	life,	that
which	forms	and	influences	us,	and	with	the	end	of	life,	when	we	are	subject	to
the	 conditions	we	have	ourselves	 created	 and,	 in	 effect,	 become	 like	 children
again,	dependent	upon	the	care	of	others.	It	represents	the	final	resting	place	of
the	physical	body.
The	4th	House	rules	homes,	food,	household	items,	and	even	mundane	stuff

like	 laundry—the	 kind	 of	 environment	we	 create	 and	maintain	 for	 ourselves,
which	can	be	a	strong	reflection	of	our	mental	and	emotional	makeup.

	



EXAMPLE
	

In	Marlon	Brando's	natal	chart,	Pisces	is	on	the	cusp	of	the	4th	House.	With	this
position,	 the	home	 is	often	a	place	of	 retreat,	where	privacy	and	seclusion	are
sought	for	introspection	and	meditation.	Furthermore,	Pisces'	ruler,	Neptune,	is
found	in	the	9th	House,	which	has	to	do	with	foreign	lands.	Brando	bought	an
island	off	Tahiti	where	he	lived	in	seclusion	for	many	years.
The	Sun	appears	 in	Brando's	4th	House.	This	 is	 an	 indication	 that	parental

name,	family	affairs,	and	other	domestic	matters	were	of	the	utmost	importance
in	his	life.
The	Sun	brings	honor,	pride,	and	fame	to	anything	under	 its	 influence.	The

problem	 of	 these	 influences	 here	 is	 that	 true	 success	 will	 probably	 not	 be
attained	until	the	mature	years.	This	also	indicates	a	very	strong	attachment	to
one	 of	 his	 parents,	most	 likely	 his	mother,	which	 is	 further	 supported	 by	 the
Moon	 also	 located	 in	 this	 house.	He	 probably	 believed	 strongly	 in	 being	 the
“ruler”	 in	 his	 home,	 and	 the	 sense	 of	 privacy	 would	 have	 been	 extensively
developed	in	his	nature.
The	 Moon	 in	 the	 4th	 House	 probably	 influenced	 events	 concerning	 his

mother,	 places	of	 residence,	 and	 family	matters.	Both	 childhood	and	his	 later
years	 were	 characterized	 by	 a	 love	 of	 romance,	 various	 journeys,	 and
interesting	adventures.
The	liability	of	this	astrological	combination	is	that	it	can	cause	a	perpetual

striving	for	material	security	that	seems	to	be	hard	to	come	by.
As	mentioned	in	the	previous	section	on	the	3rd	House,	Uranus	is	located	on

the	4th-House	cusp	of	Marlon's	chart.	Uranus,	the	planet	of	the	erratic,	unusual,
and	 the	 freedomloving,	 would	 seem	 to	 indicate	 there	 was	 upheaval	 in	 his
childhood	as	well	as	in	his	domestic	life	later	on.	He	probably	had	an	unusual
style	of	living	and/or	a	home	with	all	the	latest	conveniences.

The	5th	House

	



Sign:	Leo
Ruler:	The	Sun
There	 is,	we	 can	 see,	 a	 logical	 progression	 in	 the	 process	 of	 individuation	 as
represented	by	 the	signs	and	 the	houses.	 In	 the	1st	House,	 the	self,	 identity,	 is
established.	In	the	2nd,	we	see	the	resources	gathered	that	enable	the	self	to	act;
in	the	3rd,	the	development	of	a	mind	to	control	and	use	those	resources.	In	the
4th,	 a	 base	 of	 operations	 is	 established.	 In	 the	 5th	 House,	 we	 are	 ready	 for
creative	selfexpression	and	procreation.
This	is	the	house	of	children,	artistic	creativity,	dramatic	self-assertion,	love

affairs,	 private	 enterprise,	 ethics	 and	 character,	 social	 entertainment,	 and
recreation.	In	the	5th	House,	the	Sun's	dynamic	power	is	expressed	through	the
self,	and	in	that	sense	it	shows	the	way	in	which	we	love.	Here,	the	joy	of	living
is	felt	and	expressed,	and	we	desire	to	reach	out	and	connect	with	that	same	life
force	 in	 the	 one	we	 love.	 From	 this	 union	 new	 progeny	 are	 born.	 In	 the	 5th
House,	though,	there	is	no	true	union	of	the	sexes	(this	is	found	in	the	7th	and
8th	 Houses).	 It	 is	 more	 the	 house	 of	 courtship	 and	 romance	 in	 which	 we
discover	what	we	want	in	love	and	a	lover	and	in	which	deference	is	shown	to
the	one	we	are	courting.

	
EXAMPLE

	
Brando's	natal	chart	shows	Aries	on	the	cusp	of	the	5th	House,	suggesting	that
he	 brought	 much	 energy	 to	 creative	 activity	 and	 formulated	 many	 original
concepts	in	that	regard.	In	fact,	it	is	often	said	that	he	changed	the	art	of	acting
in	 the	 twentieth	 century,	 bringing	 his	 own	 method	 to	 the	 “Method,”	 and
influencing	an	entire	generation	of	performers	on	stage	and	screen.	Individuals
with	 Aries	 on	 the	 5th-House	 cusp	 are	 passionate	 and	 aggressive	 in	 love	 and
romance.	 They	 love	 sports,	 especially	 those	 of	 a	 combative	 nature	 such	 as
boxing,	wrestling,	and	football.	They	are	both	dominating	and	generous	in	their
relationships	with	children.
Mercury	is	located	in	the	5th	House	in	Brando's	chart.	He	had	ample	mental

resources	to	contribute	to	successful	selfexpression	and	creative	endeavors.

The	6th	House



	
Sign:	Virgo
Ruler:	Mercury
This	is	the	house	of	work,	of	the	labor	necessary	to	bring	to	fruition	that	which
was	creatively	envisioned	in	the	5th	House.	The	planets	in	this	house,	the	ruler
of	 the	 house,	 and	 their	 aspects	 all	 reveal	 our	 attitude	 toward	 work,	 our
methodology,	and	our	ability	to	perform	tasks	and	solve	problems	in	a	practical
way.	 Here,	 discipline	 and	 training,	 with	 a	 comprehensive	 understanding
combined	with	careful	and	patient	attention	to	detail,	are	the	skills	that	we	must
learn	 in	 order	 to	 handle	 these	 practical	 tasks	 and	 responsibilities.	 What	 is
required	here	is	a	humble	devotion	to	work	and	service.	This	is	the	house	of	the
concerns	and	limits	of	the	use	of	the	practical	mind	for	personal	advantage.	Here
we	 learn	 the	value	of	hard	work,	 acquire	new	skills,	observe	 the	effect	of	our
work	 and	 ideas	 on	 others,	 analyze	 and	 solve	 problems,	 and	 learn	 to	 be
discriminating	and	thorough—all	of	which	provide	the	practical	security	for	the
experiences	 defined	 in	 the	 houses	 still	 to	 follow:	marriage,	 career,	 and	 social
activity.	 In	 a	 sense,	we	 have	 passed	 through	 spring	 and	 summer	 and	 are	 now
entering	autumn	and	preparing	for	the	harvest.
The	6th	House	is	also	associated	with	health	and	hygiene,	with	the	care	and

maintenance	of	the	body	as	an	essential	instrument	in	the	performance	of	duties
and	 labors.	 It	 rules	 diet	 and	 cooking	 as	 well	 as	 clothing	 and	 appearance
(cleanliness	and	neatness,	or	the	lack	thereof).
Any	planets	in	Virgo	will	have	an	influence	on	the	6th	House,	and	wherever

they	 appear	 in	 the	 chart	 we	 must	 be	 realistic,	 analytical,	 hardworking,	 and
thorough	in	every	respect.
Whereas	the	5th	House	relates	to	courtship	and	the	7th	to	marriage,	 the	6th

House	relates	to	betrothal	or	engagement.	What	we	bring	to	any	partnership	at
its	inception	is	largely	determined	by	the	6th	House.

	
EXAMPLE

	
Taurus	is	on	the	cusp	of	the	6th	House	in	Brando's	chart.	Although	his	work	was



practical	 and	 geared	 toward	monetary	 gain	 (Taurus),	 it	 is	 enjoyed	 in	 projects
that	 are	 artistic	 and	 beautiful	 (Venus,	 Taurus's	 ruler).	His	 health	 tended	 to	 be
generally	robust,	as	long	as	the	tendency	to	overeat	or	self-indulge	in	other	ways
was	overcome.
Venus	was	 in	Brando's	6th	House	at	 the	 time	of	birth.	He	was	definitely	 a

lucky	individual.	His	health	throughout	life	was	either	very	good	or	he	was	able
to	quickly	recover	from	illness.
While	 he	 may	 have	 regarded	 his	 work	 as	 a	 pleasurable	 thing	 to	 do,	 he

probably	 was	 not	 a	 hardworking	 individual;	 in	 fact,	 he	 probably	 exhibited	 a
tendency	 toward	 laziness.	 Individuals	with	 this	Venus	 placement	 tend	 to	 find
themselves	 in	 positions	 where	 they	 work	 under	 the	 direction	 of	 extremely
benign	 and	 attractive	 superiors.	 A	 love	 relationship	 could	 start	 due	 to	 this
interaction.	As	mentioned	earlier,	Brando's	wives	were	all	actresses,	but	he	was
also	 extremely	 fortunate	 in	 his	 professional	 training	 and	his	 connections	with
great	directors	like	Elia	Kazan	and	Francis	Ford	Coppola.
In	Brando's	chart,	notice	that	his	Venus	in	Taurus	is	5	degrees	from	the	cusp

of	 the	 7th	House,	 the	Descendant,	 and	 can	 be	 considered	 angular.	 Therefore,
Venus	is	very	strong	in	his	chart.	As	the	ruler	of	Taurus	and	Libra,	Venus	is	in
dignity	 by	 sign	 and	 house,	which	 is	 to	 say	 its	 energy	 flows	 very	 easily	 here,
giving	 astrological	 testimony	 to	Brando's	 physical	 attractiveness	 and	 palpable
sensuality.	 Brando's	 commitment	 to	 his	 work	 and	 partnerships	 came	 very
naturally	to	him.

•	•	•

The	first	six	houses	deal	with	the	personal	realms	of	life:	the	1st	with	selfhood,
the	2nd	with	acquisition,	the	3rd	with	practical	thought,	the	4th	with	a	personal
base	 of	 operation,	 the	 5th	 with	 creative	 selfexpression,	 and	 the	 6th	 with
selfimprovement	 through	work	 and	 service.	The	 last	 six	 houses	 deal	with	 our
relationships	with	other	people	and	society	as	a	whole,	retracing,	in	a	sense,	the
development	of	the	first	six	houses	and	signs,	but	from	a	social	reference	point
rather	than	a	personal	one.

The	7th	House



	
Sign:	Libra
Ruler:	Venus
One	of	the	easiest	ways	to	remember	the	symbolism	of	the	houses	is	to	look	at
the	“self-other”	axis	represented	by	 the	houses	opposite	each	other.	Where	 the
key	phrase	for	the	1st	House	is	“I	am,”	that	for	the	7th	is	“We	are.”	It	represents
the	 beginning	 of	 the	 objective,	 social	 phases	 of	 personal	 experience,	 where
personal	interests,	aims,	and	desires	are	weighed	and	balanced	against	those	of
an	 “other.”	 Formal	 agreements	 and	 contracts	 are	 made	 here,	 and	 we	 are
concerned	with	all	direct,	close,	personal	relationships.	The	7th	House	describes
the	 kinds	 of	 partners	 we	 are	 likely	 to	 attract,	 in	 marriage	 and	 other	 close
partnerships.	The	7th	House	 rules	marriage,	 close	 friendships,	public	contacts,
legal	affairs,	contracts,	and	agreements.	It	also	governs	commerce.

	
EXAMPLE

	
With	Gemini	on	the	7th-House	cusp,	it's	no	surprise	that	Brando	had	more	than
one	marriage	 and	many	 significant	 partnerships,	 as	 the	 Sagittarian	Ascendant
shares	with	Gemini	a	tendency	to	have	a	wandering	eye	that	is	always	looking
for	 new	 and	 greener	 pastures.	 People	with	Gemini	 on	 the	 cusp	 of	 the	 7th	 are
primarily	 loners,	 but	 always	manage	 to	 attract	 people	of	 talent	who	can	 assist
them	in	practical	ways.	Although	astute	and	intelligent	in	public	relations,	they
often	prefer	that	their	partners	represent	them	and	their	ideas.	When	Brando	was
nominated	Best	Actor	 for	his	portrayal	of	Don	Corleone	 in	The	Godfather,	he
sent	a	Native	American	woman	to	the	Academy	Award	ceremony	as	his	proxy;
when	the	Oscar	was	awarded	to	him,	she	carried	out	his	instruction	to	announce
his	denial	of	the	award	in	protest	against	the	U.S.	government's	infringement	of
Native	American	territorial	rights.

The	8th	House



	
Sign:	Scorpio
Rulers:	Mars	and	Pluto
This	is	the	house	of	joint	resources,	as	its	opposite,	the	2nd	House,	is	the	house
of	 personal	 property.	 The	 key	 phrase	 here	 is	 “We	 have.”	 In	 some	ways,	 it	 is
perhaps	the	most	difficult	of	the	houses	to	understand.	It	deals	with	such	diverse
matters	as	sexuality,	death,	partnerships	in	terms	of	the	sharing	of	assets,	taxes,
and	psychic	or	extrasensory	perceptions.	 In	occult	 tradition,	 it	 is	known	as	 the
house	of	spiritual	transformation.	The	death	symbolized	in	the	8th	House	can	be
seen	as	 the	death	of	selfishness	or	an	ego-death.	Here	we	have	 the	capacity	 to
pass	through	the	purgatory	of	selfhood	to	the	threshold	of	an	understanding	and
appreciation	of	the	more	spiritual	and	universal	aspects	of	life,	and	we	are	better
able	to	understand	the	needs,	desires,	and	beliefs	of	our	mate	or	partner.	In	the
7th	House,	we	are	faced	with	the	challenge	to	learn	the	balance	of	give	and	take
that	 enables	 a	 suitable	 agreement	 with	 the	 other	 party.	 In	 the	 8th	 House,	 a
serious	 catharsis	 of	 egotistical	 attachments	 may	 take	 place	 as	 a	 natural
progression	of	how	we	deal	with	our	7th-House	issues.	In	a	successful	marriage
(the	 7th	House),	 the	 union	 finds	 its	 deepest	 expression	 in	 the	 8th	House,	 the
house	 of	 shared	 resources.	 The	 treasures	 of	 the	 partner	 become	 our	 own,	 and
vice	versa.	This	finds	one	of	its	most	profound	expressions	in	the	realm	of	sex.
On	 the	 negative	 side,	 the	 baser	 desires	 of	 the	 8th-House	 rulers,	 Mars	 and
Scorpio,	can	be	a	source	of	conflict	over	jointly	held	wealth.
The	 8th	 House	 is	 concerned	 with	 the	 death	 of	 the	 physical	 body	 and	 the

practical	matters	associated	with	 it—funerals,	wills,	 and	 inheritance.	 It	 is	also
concerned	with	 internal	mystical	 experiences,	 the	 occult,	 and	 such	 aspects	 of
science	as	higher	mathematics	and	nuclear	physics.

	
EXAMPLE

	
Marlon	 Brando's	 natal	 chart	 shows	 Cancer	 on	 the	 8th-House	 cusp.	With	 this
position,	 the	Sagittarian	Ascendant	becomes	 intensely	 emotional	 regarding	his
own	death,	and	 it	 is	of	utmost	 importance	 to	him	 that	he	be	 remembered	well



and	fondly	after	having	passed	on	and	that	he	leave	behind	ample	provisions	for
those	in	his	care.
The	importance	of	8th-House	issues	in	Brando's	life	is	further	emphasized	by

Pluto	 in	 Cancer	 in	 the	 8th	 House.	 Pluto	 here	 is	 in	 accidental	 dignity,	 being
found	in	the	house	it	naturally	rules.	It	is	likely	that	his	partnerships	exerted	a
profound	transformation	on	his	inner	self,	and	he	may	have	been	at	times	either
the	dominating	partner	or	at	 the	mercy	of	his	partner's	demands,	which	would
have	 involved	 Cancer	 concerns	 of	 motherhood,	 nurturing,	 emotional
fulfillment,	and	the	home.

The	9th	House

	
Sign:	Sagittarius
Rulers:	Jupiter	and	Neptune
The	key	phrase	for	the	9th	House	is	“We	think”	(as	opposed	to	the	“I	think”	of
the	 3rd	 House).	 This	 house	 deals	 with	 philosophy,	 religion,	 and	 religious
institutions,	 laws	 and	 legal	 systems,	 and	 institutions	 of	 higher	 learning—all
those	arenas	in	which	social	concepts	are	developed,	embodied,	and	taught.	It	is
related	 to	 teaching	 and	 publishing	 (through	which	 knowledge	 is	 passed	 on	 to
succeeding	 generations)	 and	 to	 longdistance	 travel,	 especially	 to	 foreign
countries	(through	which	greater	personal	knowledge	of	culture	and	humanity	is
gained).	 It	 is	 the	 house	 of	 idealism,	 education,	 social	 enlightenment,	 and
conscience.	 It	 is	 concerned	 with	 truth	 and	 expansion.	 Here,	 the	 creative
impulses	and	experiences	of	the	1st	and	5th	Houses	are	given	added	depth	and
breadth	by	combining	with	the	experience,	knowledge,	and	intuitive	insights	of
others.	 This	 is	 the	 beginning	 of	 the	 attainment	 of	 the	 international	 or
cosmopolitan	worldview	symbolized	by	the	10th,	11th,	and	12th	Houses.

	
EXAMPLE

	
Brando's	 chart	 shows	 Leo	 on	 the	 9th-House	 cusp.	Although	 these	 individuals



may	 appear	 to	 not	 desire	 fame,	 they	 are	 subconsciously	 and	 philosophically
geared	 toward	 attaining	 positions	 of	 importance	 in	 their	 particular	 fields	 of
endeavor.	 Their	 eyes	 are	 constantly	 on	 large	 and	 distant	 goals,	 and	 they	 take
many	long	journeys,	both	physically	and	mentally.
Neptune	 appears	 in	 the	 9th	 House	 in	 Brando's	 chart.	 This	 diffuse	 energy

would	have	contributed	to	an	unusual	education	and	a	kind	of	mystical	sense	of
how	 to	apply	his	 intellectual	abilities.	Neptune's	 strong	artistic	energy	here	 in
the	 9th-House	 realm	 of	mass	 communication	 fits	well	with	 his	 success	 as	 an
actor	who	has	become	a	cultural	icon.

The	10th	House

	
Sign:	Capricorn
Ruler:	Saturn
Whereas	 the	 4th	 House	 deals	 with	 our	 personal	 base	 of	 operations,	 the	 10th
House	 represents	 our	 social	 base	 and	 is	 concerned	 with	 such	 things	 as
profession,	career,	political	and	business	power	structures,	and	public	reputation
and	honor	(or	dishonor).	The	planets	within	this	house,	their	aspects,	the	ruler	of
the	house,	and	the	sign	placed	within	it	all	determine	the	nature	of	our	ambition,
how	it	will	be	manifested,	and	our	ability	to	attain	power	or	significance	in	the
world.	It	shows	how	we	will	be	favored	or	maligned	by	those	in	authority,	the
kind	of	employers	we	are	likely	to	have,	and	our	relationship	to	them.
The	cusp	of	 the	10th	House,	 the	Midheaven,	can	represent	our	zenith,	both

materially	and	spiritually,	but	only	if	we	have	managed	to	rise	to	its	challenge.
	

EXAMPLE
	

With	 Virgo	 on	 the	 10th-House	 cusp,	 the	 indication	 is	 that	 Brando	 was	 very
particular	about	his	public	image.	In	professional	roles,	people	with	Virgo	in	the
10th	House	can	appear	efficient,	organized,	and	circumspect,	and	often	critical,
cold,	 and	 aloof.	 In	 his	 later	 years,	 Brando	 expressed	 his	 disdain	 for	 his



profession	as	an	actor,	calling	it	shallow	and	meaningless.

The	11th	House

	
Sign:	Aquarius
Rulers:	Uranus	and	Saturn
The	11th	House	is	associated	with	creative	group	expression,	with	objective	and
impersonal	truths	rather	than	personal	ones	(as	represented	by	the	5th	House,	its
opposite).	 It	 is	associated	with	embracing	new	ideas	and	experiences,	 freedom
of	expression,	and	a	sense	of	shared	loyalty	and	mutual	responsibility.	It	reveals
our	 capacity	 to	 make	 friends,	 communicate,	 form	 group	 associations,	 and
understand	and	act	from	the	standpoint	of	social	and	universal	concerns.	Here,
we	attain	significance	and	fulfillment	 through	our	alliance	with	a	group	where
ideals	are	shared	and	acted	upon	in	the	name	of	some	humanitarian	endeavor.
This	 is	 the	 house	 in	 which	 we	 make	 friendships	 in	 the	 name	 of	 higher

purposes	and	shared	ideals	rather	than	personal	advantage	or	gratification.	The
intellect,	 rather	 than	 the	 emotions,	 is	 the	 driving	 force	 here,	 and	 of	 primary
concern	 is	 the	 view	 toward	 the	 future.	 Although	 the	 family	 is	 far	 from
forgotten,	it	is	here	that	community	or	society	counts	the	most,	and	the	overall
betterment	 of	 everyone	 in	 it.	Open	 relationships	 are	 favored,	 especially	 those
that	are	based	on	socially	important	aims	and	ideals.
Any	planets	in	Aquarius	and	the	position	of	Uranus	in	the	chart	influence	the

power	of	the	11th	House.
	

EXAMPLE
	

Libra	 is	 on	 the	 cusp	 of	 Brando's	 11th	 House.	 Individuals	 with	 a	 Libra	 11th
House	 often	 obtain	 their	 goals	 by	 surrounding	 themselves	 with	 artistic,
attractive,	and	unusual	friends	who	are	prosperous	and	stable.	Often,	they	marry
a	friend	or	a	friend	of	a	friend.
Saturn	was	in	the	11th	House	at	the	time	of	Brando's	birth.	Psychologically,



this	can	indicate	a	hidden	and	limited	view	of	personal	ambitions,	friendships,
and	the	future.	He	may	have	been	ambitious,	cautious,	just,	patient,	responsible,
but	 at	 times	 too	 serious.	He	probably	had	 few	 friends,	 and	 even	 these	people
may	have	been	more	inclined	to	offer	assistance	when	it	was	needed	in	the	form
of	advice	rather	than	with	actual	help.

The	12th	House

	
Sign:	Pisces
Rulers:	Neptune	and	Jupiter
As	 the	 house	 corresponding	 with	 the	 water	 sign	 Pisces,	 the	 12th	 House	 is
believed	 to	 contain	 the	 seeds	 of	 the	 next	 incarnation	 as	 revealed	 by	 the	 1st
House.	 This	 is	 the	 house	 of	 personal	 secrets,	 self-judgment,	 karma,	 solitude,
memory,	meditation,	 universal	 understanding,	 and	 compassion.	Both	great	 joy
and	great	sorrow	can	be	found	in	the	12th	House.
It	is	the	final	house	of	the	horoscopic	wheel	and	reveals	how	great	deeds	(the

10th	House)	and	altruistic	concerns	(the	11th	House)	can	be	incorporated	into	a
broad,	compassionate,	and	penetrating	intelligence,	one	imbued	with	a	sense	of
life's	 unity	 and	mystery.	 Contemplative	 solitude,	 intuitive	 understanding,	 and
self-sacrifice	all	arise	from	the	12th	House.
Here,	too,	are	all	the	unresolved	karmic	issues.	The	12th	House,	like	the	8th

House,	can	be	difficult	to	understand.	Residing	in	it	are	both	hidden	support	and
self-undoing.	 Success	 or	 failure	 at	 the	 earlier	 stages	 of	 life	 (and	 perhaps	 past
lives)	is	reckoned	in	the	12th	House.	Here,	the	ghosts	of	the	past	can	come	to
haunt	us.	All	things	considered	subversive	or	evil	are	also	found	in	this	house—
psychosis,	 imprisonment,	 sorrow,	 destitution,	 loneliness,	 bondage,	 perversity.
The	criminal,	 liar,	drug	addict,	deviant,	spy,	alcoholic,	and	wastrel	are	subject
to	Neptune's	influence.	But	it	is	here,	too,	where	acts	of	good	will	and	charity
are	performed,	and	even	enlightenment	attained.

	
EXAMPLE



	
Scorpio	is	on	the	cusp	of	Brando's	12th	House.	Here,	his	Sagittarian	Ascendant
manifests	 a	 hidden	 resourcefulness	 that	 is	 often	 not	 immediately	 apparent	 to
others.	He	was	able	to	recognize	things	of	value	that	others	overlooked	or	failed
to	 perceive—that	 which	 was	 “hidden	 in	 plain	 sight.”	 He	 also	 knew	 how	 to
cultivate	 and	 bring	 out	 the	 hidden	 talents	 of	 others.	 Secret	 love	 affairs	 and
hidden	resentments	probably	caused	him	a	great	deal	of	strife.



CHAPTER	4
The	Major	Aspects:	Conjunctions,	Sextiles,	Squares,

Trines,	and	Oppositions
You	 have	 learned	 about	 the	 signs,	 planets,	 and	 houses.	 These	 fundamental
elements	of	 the	chart	 tell	you	about	 the	available	energy	and	where	 it	 tends	 to
come	 into	 play,	 but	 aspects	 tell	 you	 about	 how	 planets	 work	 together	 in	 the
chart,	the	manner	in	which	their	energies	are	blended,	and	how	they	tend	to	get
used.
An	aspect	 is	 the	angle	formed	between	two	imaginary	lines	connecting	two

celestial	 bodies	or	points	 (such	as	 the	Ascendant	or	Midheaven)	 to	 the	Earth.
There	 are	 several	 kinds	 of	 aspects	 that	 planets	 can	 form,	 but	 focusing	 on	 the
five	major	aspects	will	give	you	plenty	to	work	with	in	 the	beginning	of	your
astrological	 study.	 The	major	 aspects	 are	 the	 conjunction	 (0	 degrees),	 sextile
(60	 degrees),	 square	 (90	 degrees),	 trine	 (120	 degrees),	 and	 opposition	 (180
degrees).	Among	 these	aspects,	 the	 squares	 and	oppositions	 are	 considered	 to
be	 challenging,	 while	 the	 conjunctions,	 trines,	 and	 sextiles	 are	 considered
harmonious,	but	this	depends	on	the	planets	involved.	The	minor	aspects	are	the
inconjunct	 or	 quincunx	 (150	 degrees),	 semi-sextile	 (30	 degrees),	 semisquare
(45	 degrees),	 sesquisquare	 (135	 degrees),	 quintile	 (72	 degrees),	 and	 the
biquintile	(144	degrees).

Orb	of	Influence
Planets	 don't	 have	 to	 be	 exactly	 at	 a	 particular	 degree	 from	 each	 other	 to	 be
considered	as	forming	aspects	to	one	another.	The	effect	of	an	aspect	begins	to
be	 felt	 as	 the	 planets	 draw	 nearer	 the	 exact	 degree	 of	 the	 aspect.	 If	 they	 fall
within	a	certain	range	of	the	exact	aspect	degree,	they	are	in	aspect.	This	range
is	 known	 as	 the	 orb	 of	 influence	 and	 can	 be	 thought	 of	 as	 a	 kind	 of
“gravitational	pull.”	Some	astrologers	work	with	a	tight	orb	of	5	to	6	degrees	for
the	sextile	and	a	wider	orb	of	10	degrees	for	the	other	major	aspects,	particularly
when	the	luminaries	(Sun	and	Moon)	are	involved.
For	 example,	 if	Mars	 is	 at	 15	 degrees	 Taurus,	 an	 exact	 square	 to	 another

planet	would	be	15	degrees	Aquarius	(or	Leo—about	three	signs	away	in	either
direction	around	the	wheel).	With	a	10-degree	orb,	any	planet	from	5	(15	minus
10)	degrees	Aquarius	to	25	(15	plus	10)	degrees	Aquarius	would	be	considered
as	forming	a	square	with	Mars.	Where	this	gets	tricky	is	when	the	planet	is	over



20	 or	 under	 10	 degrees	 into	 a	 sign,	 as	 a	 sign	 occupies	 30	 degrees	 of	 the
horoscopic	wheel.	So	with	a	22-degree	Mars	in	Taurus,	a	planet	between	12	(22
minus	10)	degrees	Aquarius	and	2	degrees	Pisces	(22	plus	10	equals	32	degrees,
minus	30	degrees	equals	2	degrees	into	the	next	sign)	forms	a	square	to	Mars.
On	the	other	end	of	the	arc,	with	Mars	at	3	degrees	Taurus,	any	planet	between
23	 (3	 minus	 10	 equals	 -7	 plus	 30	 equals	 23	 degrees	 in	 the	 sign	 preceding)
degrees	 Capricorn	 and	 13	 (3	 plus	 10)	 degrees	 Aquarius	 would	 be	 forming	 a
square	 to	Mars.	 All	 of	 this	 will	 become	more	 clear	 as	 you	 learn	 about	 each
aspect	described	in	the	following	section.

The	Conjunction	
A	conjunction	is	the	occurrence	of	a	direct	or	nearly	direct	lineup	of	two	planets
as	seen	from	the	Earth	(see	figure	7	on	page	82).	These	are	planets	in	the	same
sign,	 5	 (for	 the	 outer	 planets)	 to	 10	 (for	 the	 inner	 planets)	 degrees	 apart.	Key
phrases	 here	 are	 “has	 an	 affinity	with,”	 “likeness	 to,”	 “shares	 an	 experience,”
“identifies	in	purpose	with,”	“of	a	similar	nature.”	In	Marlon	Brando's	chart,	his
Sun	 and	Moon	 are	 one	 degree	 apart	 in	 Aries	 and	 are	 therefore	 conjunct.	 His
conscious,	 fundamental	 essence	 and	 will	 (Sun)	 worked	 in	 concert	 with	 his
emotional	needs	and	intuition	(Moon).

	



	

Fig.	7.	Conjunction	of	Sun	and	Moon	in	Marlon	Brando's	natal	chart.

The	Sextile	
This	aspect	 represents	an	angular	 relationship	of	60	degrees,	or	one-sixth	of	a
circle.	Planets	 in	 sextile	 are	placed	 two	 signs	 apart	 and	occupy	approximately
the	same	number	of	degrees	in	these	signs,	plus	or	minus	6	degrees.
Key	phrases	for	planets	in	sextile	are	“stimulates	or	accentuates,”	“connects

favorable	 with	 or	 relates	 to,”	 “communicates	 sympathy	 for,”	 “furthers	 the
purpose	or	interest	of,”	“helps	reveal	a	side	of.”	See	figure	8	below.
In	 figure	 9	 on	 page	 84,	 Marlon	 Brando's	 chart	 shows	 Mars	 in	 Capricorn

sextile	Uranus	in	Pisces.
	



	

Fig.	8.	Sextiles.
	

	



Fig.	9.	Mars	in	Capricorn	sextile	Uranus	in	Pisces	in	Brando's	natal	chart.

The	Square	
A	square	represents	an	angular	relationship	of	90	degrees	between	two	planets.
Planets	in	square	generally	occupy	the	same	number	of	degrees	in	signs	which
are	 three	 signs	 apart.	 Key	 phrases	 here	 are	 “in	 conflict	 with,”	 “excited	 or
activated	 by,”	 “demands	 or	 requires	 an	 adjustment	 between,”	 “problems
between.”	The	planets	involved	in	the	square	determine	whether	the	energy	will
be	activating	or	of	a	conflicting	nature.	See	figure	10.

	

	

Fig.	10.	Squares	and	oppositions.



	

	

Fig.	11.	Squares	in	Brando's	natal	chart.
	

Brando's	 chart	 has	 several	 squares	 due	 to	 his	 Sun-Moon	 conjunction—Sun
square	Mars,	Sun	 square	Pluto,	Moon	 square	Mars	 and	Moon	 square	Pluto—
and	Jupiter	square	Uranus.	See	figure	11.

The	Trine	
A	trine	is	an	angular	relationship	of	120	degrees	or	one-third	of	a	circle	between
two	 planets.	 Planets	 in	 trine	 generally	 occupy	 the	 same	 number	 of	 degrees	 in
signs	four	signs	apart.	Key	phrases	here	are	“blends	well	or	harmonizes	with,”
“favors	one	another,”	“supports,”	“positively	mirrors,”	“aids	in	fulfillment,”	“of
a	 similar	 nature,”	 “shares	 common	 interest,”	 “joins	 in	 the	 expression	 of.”	See



figure	12.
	

	

Fig.	12.	Trines.

	



	

Fig.	13.	Trines	in	Brando's	natal	chart.	Note	the	Sun-Moon	in	Aries
conjunction	in	a	grand	trine	with	Jupiter	in	Sagittarius	and	Neptune	in	Leo.

	

Figure	 13	 shows	 several	 trines,	 including	 a	 grand	 fire	 trine	 (three	 planets
within	 120	 degrees	 of	 each	 other	 in	 each	 sign	 of	 an	 element)	 in	 Marlon
Brando's	natal	chart.

The	Opposition	
An	 opposition	 is	 an	 angular	 relationship	 of	 180	 degrees	 between	 two	 planets
(see	figure	10,	page	85).	Planets	in	opposition	generally	occupy	approximately
the	same	number	of	degrees	in	 two	signs	directly	across	 the	Zodiac	from	each
other.	 Key	 phrases	 here	 are	 “antagonizes,”	 “agitates,”	 “counters,”	 “requires
adjustment	 to,”	 “complements,”	 “collides	 or	 clashes	 with,”	 “demands
compromise	 between,”	 “affects	 profoundly,”	 “dramatically	 unites,”	 “out	 of



harmony	with.”	Brando's	natal	chart	contains	an	opposition	between	Mercury	in
Aries	and	Saturn	in	Scorpio.	See	figure	14	on	page	90.
Also	 in	Brando's	 chart,	Venus	 is	 in	opposition	 to	his	Ascendant,	 indicating

that	he	was	drawn	to	refined	and	sophisticated	people.	This	aspect	indicates	he
himself	was	well	mannered,	and	generally	people	had	a	good	opinion	of	him.
He	would	have	been	inclined	to	make	concessions	if	they	appeared	necessary	to
maintain	 harmonious	 relations.	 Although	 he	 appeared	 self-confident	 and
assured,	 it	 was	 probably	 difficult	 for	 him	 to	 stand	 alone.	 He	 worked	 hard,
although	subtly,	to	hide	his	deep	insecurities.	His	friends	were	probably	his	best
PR	agents,	freely	and	enthusiastically	extolling	his	virtues.
On	the	surface,	individuals	with	Venus	in	opposition	to	the	Ascendant	appear

as	docile,	gentle,	and	charming	(Venus),	but	underneath	 they	 tend	 to	conspire
and	scheme	 to	advance	and	better	 themselves	 (Ascendant)	 through	 the	people
they	deal	with;	this	is	the	1st-House/7th-House	axis	dynamic	in	action.

	



	

Fig.	14.	Mercury	in	Aries	opposition	to	Saturn	in	Scorpio	in	Brando's	natal
chart;	Venus	in	the	late	degrees	of	Taurus	opposes	his	Ascendant	in	the	early

degrees	of	Sagittarius	as	well.



Part	2
the	planets	in	the	signs,	houses,	and	aspect



CHAPTER	5
The	Sun

The	Sun	represents	our	vital	force,	conscious	purpose,	and	essential	character.
It	is	associated	with	the	masculine	yang	principle	and	consciousness.

The	Sun	in	the	Signs
Reading	the	following	descriptions	of	the	twelve	signs,	you	should	bear	in	mind
that	 they	apply	not	only	 to	 the	Sun	 sign,	which	denotes	will	 and	purpose,	but
also	to	the	Rising	Sign,	which	denotes	personality	and	attitudes.

Sun	in	Aries—March	21	to	April	20
I	am.
Symbol:	The	Ram
Planetary	Ruler:	Mars
Element:	Fire
Quality:	Cardinal
Complementary	Sign:	Libra
Aries	represents	the	birth	of	individual	will,	and	as	a	result,	persons	born	under
this	 sign	 tend	 to	 be	 characterized	 by	 their	 initiative,	 fortitude,	 courage,
virtuosity,	curiosity,	and	originality.	They	tend	to	be	warm	and	energetic,	full	of
inspiration	 and	 incentive,	 with	 pronounced	 qualities	 of	 leadership	 and
selfreliance.	Here,	too,	we	can	perceive	competitiveness,	impulsiveness,	lack	of
restraint,	combativeness,	self-centeredness,	and	narcissism.
Aries,	the	Ram,	meets	obstacles	head-on,	overcomes	them,	and	moves	on	to

explore	new	horizons.	It	is	the	sign	of	challenge	and	conquest.	Arians	base	their
actions	 on	 their	 strong	 intuitive	 sense	 and	 belief	 in	 themselves.	 They	 can	 be
highly	 persuasive,	 but	 it	 is	 often	 necessary	 for	 them	 to	 develop	 tact,	 reserve,
thoroughness,	and	receptivity	to	others	in	order	to	avoid	the	pitfalls	of	excessive
self-confidence,	 forcefulness,	 and	 a	 lack	 of	 subtlety	 or	 diplomacy	 in	 their
dealings	with	others.	At	the	same	time,	more	than	any	other	sign,	Arians	must
know	how	to	take	immediate	and	individual	action	in	dealing	with	the	personal
crises	they	are	bound	to	encounter.
In	 love,	 Aries	 wants	 foremost	 to	 be	 admired	 by	 his	 or	 her	 lover	 or	 mate.

Some	Aries	individuals	see	love	in	terms	of	conquest	and	their	ardent	need	for



self-actualization	 through	both	 the	 lover	 and	any	children	 that	 result	 from	 the
union.
Aries	 rules	 the	 head	 and	 face,	 eyes,	 brain,	 ears,	 nose,	 upper	 jaw,	 and	 the

pituitary	and	pineal	glands.
	

Sun	in	Taurus—April	21	to	May	21

I	have.
Symbol:	The	Bull
Planetary	Ruler:	Venus
Element:	Earth
Quality:	Fixed
Complementary	Sign:	Scorpio
Taurus	is	the	sign	of	the	builder	and	the	cultivator	of	crops,	characterized	by	the
practical	utilization	of	the	resources	at	hand.	Consistency	and	thoroughness	and
ensuring	that	seeds	are	gathered	for	future	planting	are	hallmarks	of	this	sign	in
its	 most	 positive	 manifestations—hallmarks	 that	 are,	 in	 fact,	 essential	 to	 its
nature	and	purpose.	With	steadfastness,	perseverance,	and	an	eye	for	the	small
but	important	details,	Taurians	are	able	to	build	that	which	endures	and	provides
personal	 security	 and	 contentment.	 On	 the	 other	 hand,	 it	 is	 of	 vital	 strategic
importance	 that	 those	born	under	 this	 fixed	 sign	not	 jeopardize	 themselves	by
exhausting	 their	personal	 resources,	 a	 situation	 that	can	prove	 to	be	especially
dangerous	to	Taurus.
A	common	pitfall	among	Taurians	can	be	a	tendency	to	be	overly	concerned

with	 the	mundane	and	material	world	and	 to	adopt	 a	point	of	view	 that	 lacks
flexibility	and	ignores	the	rewards	of	experience	beyond	the	purely	practical.	A
narrowminded	selfishness	and	concern	 for	material	gain	can	be	evident	 in	 the
less	developed	of	this	sign,	who	can	also	exhibit	a	lack	of	emotional	sensitivity
and	 a	 distinct	 lack	 of	 humor	 when	 it	 comes	 to	 themselves.	 They	 can	 be



stubborn,	dull,	excessively	conservative,	impatient,	and	procrastinating.	On	the
positive	 side,	 they	 are	 gifted	 with	 down-to-earth	 common	 sense,	 stamina,
patience,	and	the	ability	to	construct	solid	foundations	and	accumulate	wealth.
Taurus	is	concerned	with	the	practical	aspects	of	marriage	and	the	comforts

and	 rewards	 it	 can	 provide	 that	 are	 constructive	 and	 supportive	 in	 increasing
personal	productivity.
Taurus	rules	the	lower	jaw,	tongue,	uvula,	tonsils,	throat	and	neck,	pharynx,

epiglottis,	 larynx,	 trachea,	 Eustachian	 tube,	 and	 the	 thyroid	 and	 parathyroid
glands.

	

Sun	in	Gemini—May	22	to	June	21

I	think.
Symbol:	The	Twins
Planetary	Ruler:	Mercury
Element:	Air
Quality:	Mutable
Complementary	Sign:	Sagittarius
Gemini	is	the	sign	of	communication	and	its	various	forms,	the	logical	third	step
after	Aries	(self	and	will)	and	Taurus	(the	builder	of	the	material	foundations	on
which	the	self	can	endure).	Persons	born	under	this	sign	are	excellent	translators
and	conveyors	of	information,	with	the	ability	to	consider	two	points	of	view	at
once.	Geminis	are	highly	adaptable	and	versatile,	and	their	bipolar	intellect	can
sometimes	make	 them	highly	 changeable,	which	 explains	Gemini's	 symbol	 of
the	twins.
The	 position	 of	 Mercury	 in	 a	 Gemini's	 chart	 is	 especially	 important,	 as

Mercury's	position	in	the	horoscope	shows	the	particular	outlet	for	intellectual
energy,	 and	 Mercury	 is	 never	 more	 than	 28	 degrees	 away	 from	 the	 Sun.



Therefore,	 there	 can	 only	 be	 three	 types	 of	 Gemini	 or	 Gemini	 mentality:
Gemini,	 Taurian,	 and	 Cancerian.	 Along	 with	 the	 house	 position	 of	 the	 Sun,
Mercury's	 position	 shows	 how	 the	 Gemini	 correlates	 information	 and	 then
communicates	it.
When	 negative,	 Geminis	 can	 be	 superficial	 and	 verbose,	 plagiaristic,

inconsistent,	 and	mercurial.	The	Gemini	must	 develop	 a	 sense	of	 pragmatism
and	 self-confidence	 to	 succeed.	This	 sign	 is	 at	 its	 best	when	 it	 remains	open,
objective,	and	adaptable	and	uses	 its	considerable	 talents	of	 interpretation	and
communication	to	informally	teach	others.
In	 love,	 Gemini	 seeks	 communication	 and	 stimulating	 companionship.	 In

some	ways,	this	individual	looks	for	a	mate	who	is	more	like	a	brother	or	sister,
searching	for	a	“twin”	or	counterpart,	who	is	also	flexible	and	adaptable.
Gemini	 rules	 the	 bronchi	 and	 lungs,	 collarbone,	 shoulders,	 arms,	 hands,

upper	ribs,	and	nerves.
	

Sun	in	Cancer—June	22	to	July	23

I	feel.
Symbol:	The	Crab
Planetary	Ruler:	The	Moon
Element:	Water
Quality:	Cardinal
Complementary	Sign:	Capricorn
Words	 directly	 associated	 with	 Cancer	 are	 the	mother,	 the	 family,	 the	 home,
nourishment,	 security,	 and	 protection.	 Cancer	 people	 are	 naturally	 skilled	 at
acquiring	 the	 essentials	 of	 life,	 but	 these	 essentials	 can	 sometimes	 become
confused	with	 things	 that	have	inherently	personal	or	sentimental	value;	hence
their	 homes	 can	 appear	 cluttered	 with	 nonessentials.	 This	 exaggerated	 or
neurotic	need	for	security	is	a	result	of	a	distortion	of	the	feminine	instincts,	as



Cancer	 is	 the	most	 feminine	 and	maternal	 of	 all	 the	 signs.	 Even	Cancer	men
exhibit	strong	feminine	characteristics—both	positive	and	negative—under	their
often	tough	and	burly	exteriors.	In	this	regard,	the	Cancer	woman	is	of	singular
interest	as	a	manifestation	of	the	archetypal	female.
There	are	two	kinds	of	Cancer	woman—the	mother	or	the	eternal	girl,	puella

eterna;	sometimes	she	is	a	mixture	of	both.	Cancer	is	the	epitome	of	enigmatic
femaleness.	Alluring	and	elusive,	she	is	intuitive,	instinctive,	ruled	by	the	Moon
and	the	shifting	tides	of	her	moods.	She	is	unpredictable,	alternately	loving	and
cruel,	 shrewd	 yet	 innocent	 and	 childlike,	 capable	 of	 surprising	 ruthlessness,
driving	ambition,	and	ultimately	full	of	mystery.	The	maternal,	domestic	aspect
of	Cancer	heals,	nurtures,	and	supports.	Her	other	aspect	is	wild,	fierce,	strong,
full	 of	 emotional	 tempests,	 unforgiving,	 and	 essentially	 primitive,	 sometimes
even	perverse,	like	Mother	Nature	herself.	This	dark,	primal,	and	archaic	aspect
of	the	Goddess	fascinates,	attracts,	frightens,	and	repels.
Positive	Cancer	people	all	show	a	desire	and	capacity	to	nurture	and	protect

others	 in	 some	way.	They	have	great	powers	of	empathy	and	are	 likely	 to	be
champions	 of	 the	 underdog.	 They	 rely	 strongly	 on	 their	 feelings	 and
impressions,	 which	 can	 be	 taken	 too	 far,	making	 them	 overly	 subjective	 and
lacking	a	realistic	view	of	the	matter	or	individual	at	hand.	In	its	negative	mode,
Cancer	 can	 be	 insular,	 defensive,	 clinging,	 self-indulgent,	 chauvinistic,
manipulative,	slothful,	and	overly	emotional	and	sentimental.
Cancer	is	a	sign	associated	with	the	personal	unconscious,	especially	as	it	is

affected	and	formed	by	early	childhood	and	environment.	It	is	highly	receptive
to	 the	 impressions	 that	 arise	 from	 these	 deeper	 levels	 of	 consciousness	 and
therefore	can	be	prone	to	have	a	highly	creative	imagination.
In	a	mate	or	partner,	Cancer	 looks	 for	nourishment,	empathy,	and	security.

There	 is	 a	 need	 for	 a	 companion	 who	 is	 tolerant	 of	 Cancer's	 moods	 and
tendency	to	collect	and	store	things.
Cancer	rules	the	breasts,	mammary	glands,	armpits,	upper	abdominal	cavity,

esophagus,	stomach,	pancreas,	and	uterus.
	



Sun	in	Leo—July	24	to	August	23

I	will.
Symbol:	The	Lion
Planetary	Ruler:	The	Sun
Element:	Fire
Quality:	Fixed
Complementary	Sign:	Aquarius
Leo	is	the	sign	of	creative	selfexpression	and	enterprise.	Leo	sets	an	example	for
others	 and	 gives	 them	 direction.	 Creation,	 recreation,	 and	 procreation	 are	 the
three	terms	that	describe	the	leonine	purpose.	Positive	Leos	promote	the	joy	of
being	and	a	sense	of	justice	and	ethics	in	dealing	with	others.	This	is	especially
true	 in	 regard	 to	 their	 children.	As	 lions,	 or	 lionesses,	 they	have	an	 acute	 and
dignified	sense	of	both	 the	 individual	and	 the	 lion	pride,	 that	 is,	 the	 family	or
group,	 and	 how	 the	 two	 work	 together	 and	 nurture	 each	 other.	 Leos	 are
magnetic,	warm,	and	outgoing	individuals,	gentle	but	firm,	exuberant	and	bold,
making	 them	the	epitome	of	 the	archetypal	king	or	queen.	The	symbol	of	 this
sign	 is	 the	 lion,	 denoting	 majesty,	 power,	 and	 dignity.	 As	 Shakespeare	 has
Henry	V	describe	his	ideal	of	himself	as	he	walks	in	disguise	among	his	troops
on	the	eve	of	battle—“For	forth	he	goes,	a	 largesse,	universal	 like	the	sun,	his
liberal	eye	doth	give	to	everyone”—so	is	the	point	and	satisfaction	of	being	for
a	Leo.
Leos	are	strongly	attracted	 to	 the	opposite	sex.	 It	 is	often	necessary	 for	 the

passionate	and	dramatic	nature	of	leonine	love	to	be	held	in	check,	as	heartache
can	be	the	result.	The	French	as	a	nation	are	ruled	by	Leo.
Egocentricity,	 personal	 aggrandizement,	 insincerity,	 and	 domineering	 or

manipulative	behavior	can	be	evident	when	Leo	is	 in	 its	negative	mode.	They
can	be	pompous,	bombastic,	excessively	dramatic,	and	show	a	pronounced	lack
of	selfrestraint.	They	can	become	sullen,	brooding,	and	petulant	when	slighted
or	things	do	not	conform	to	their	desires.	If	their	fire	is	squelched,	they	can	be
like	 the	cowardly	 lion	 in	 the	Wizard	of	Oz,	acutely	 lacking	in	self-esteem	and
overly	 subservient	 and	 conformist	 to	 the	 ideas	 and	 conventions	 around	 them,
while	 compensating	with	 a	 ridiculous	 and	 empty	 show	 of	 pomposity,	 vanity,
and	personal	adornment.
An	 almost	 childlike	 spontaneity,	 playfulness,	 and	 a	 sense	 of	 humor	 are

positive	 and	 delightful	 expressions	 of	 the	 Leo	 personality.	 They	 are	 able	 to
invigorate	and	entertain	others	and	inspire	them	to	action	under	their	benevolent



and	charismatic	 leadership.	Both	Napoleon	and	T.	E.	Lawrence	 (Lawrence	of
Arabia)	 are	 wonderful	 examples	 of	 a	 Leo	 in	 both	 its	 positive	 and	 negative
expressions.
The	poetic	idea	of	the	lion	heart,	the	coeur	du	lion,	is	equated	in	English	and

French	Medieval	 literature	 to	 a	 benign	 and	 noble	 sense	 of	 both	 the	 self	 and
others	 under	 which	 all	 individuals	 flourish—the	 Sun	 in	 its	 rulership	 of	 the
planets	that	revolve	around	it.	Call	it	love	as	the	primary	principle	and	motive—
Leo's	inner	guiding	light.	The	writer	Iris	Murdoch	has	written	that,	“Love	is	the
perception	of	individuals	.	.	.	the	extremely	difficult	realization	that	something
other	than	oneself	is	real.”	It	is	the	freedom	from	“the	proliferation	of	blinding
self-centered	aims	and	images	.	.	.	that	is	the	realism	of	compassion.”
This	principle	is	essential	to	Leo	consciousness.	Leo	rules	the	heart	and	is	the

sign	 of	 generosity	 and	 nobility	 of	 feeling.	 When	 the	 source	 of	 Leo's	 power
comes	 from	 deep	 in	 the	 heart	 and	 is	 freely	 expressed	 and	 demonstrated,	 the
greater	 its	 influence	 is	 felt.	 When	 this	 light	 is	 darkened,	 and	 heart	 and
benevolence	 are	 lacking,	 the	 Lion	 can	 take	 on	 the	 grim	 characteristics	 of	 a
petulant,	 cruel,	 and	 petty	 tyrant.	 But	 in	 its	 most	 positive	 and	 radiant
manifestation,	the	dispensing	of	good	will,	fairness,	and	most	importantly,	joy
is	an	almost	religious	principle	for	those	born	under	the	sign	of	Leo.
Leos	seek	a	willing	audience	in	their	partners	with	whom	they	can	share	their

plans	and	designs.	Some	may	simply	want	a	playmate.	Women	born	under	this
sign	tend	to	dominate	their	marriages	and	will	be	like	ferocious	lionesses	when
it	comes	to	defending	their	children.	Children	are	an	important	part	of	marriage
for	many	born	under	the	sign	of	the	Lion.
Leo	 rules	 the	 heart	 and	 aorta,	 the	 back,	 spinal	 cord	 and	 column,	 and	 the

thymus.
	

Sun	in	Virgo—August	24	to	September	23

I	analyze.



Symbol:	The	Virgin
Planetary	Ruler:	Mercury
Element:	Earth
Quality:	Mutable
Complementary	Sign:	Pisces
Owing	to	its	mutability,	Virgo	is	considerably	more	adaptable	and	mobile	than
Taurus,	 a	 fixed	 sign	 and	 the	 first	 of	 the	 earth	 signs.	 It	 is	 associated	 with
observation,	 critical	 analysis,	 practical	 application,	 craftsmanship,	 service	 and
assistance,	 instruction	 (the	 “how	 to,”	 rather	 than	 the	 theory),	 and	 rules	 and
doctrine.	Virgos	seek	simplicity,	pragmatism,	and	precision	in	their	lives.	Their
task	 is	 the	 prevention	 of	 disorder	 and	 the	 maintenance	 and	 repair	 of	 all	 the
individual	parts	of	an	organic	whole.	Their	analytical	 skills	make	 them	highly
suited	 to	 any	 job	 requiring	 sedulous	 attention	 to	 practical	 details.	 It	 is	 this
discriminating	and	orderly	sign	that	ensures	the	bountiful	and	usable	crop	sown
by	Taurus.
When	 negative,	 Virgos	 can	 be	 obsessive	 about	 unnecessary	 details	 and

neurotic	about	order	and	hygiene.	They	can	show	a	marked	lack	of	warmth	and
sympathy	for	those	who	do	not	conform	to	their	standards	and	be	overly	critical
and	analytical	to	the	detriment	of	their	personal	and	social	relationships.
A	Virgo's	role	is	to	serve;	it	is	that	of	the	mechanic	or	engineer	who	quietly

ensures	 that	 the	 machine	 keeps	 running.	 The	 Virgo	 should,	 however,	 be
supremely	 aware	 of	 the	 value	 of	 his	 or	 her	 skills	 and	 craftsmanship	 and	 not
enslave	or	prostitute	them	in	the	service	of	others.
In	love	and	marriage,	Virgos	seek	a	working	relationship	in	which	order	and

common	sense	enable	both	parties	to	establish	a	smoothly	running	relationship.
Some	Virgos	are	more	than	happy	to	serve	the	aims	of	their	partner.
Virgo	rules	the	upper	intestines	and	the	spleen.

	

Sun	in	Libra—September	24	to	October	23



Sun	in	Libra—September	24	to	October	23

I	balance.
Symbol:	The	Scales
Planetary	Ruler:	Venus
Element:	Air
Quality:	Cardinal
Complementary	Sign:	Aries
Libra	is	the	sign	primarily	concerned	with	relationships,	marriage,	partnerships,
and	cooperation,	of	the	harmonious	balance	between	self	and	other.	The	first	air
sign,	 Gemini,	 symbolized	 by	 the	 Twins,	 represents	 accidental	 or	 informal
relationships,	 while	 Libra	 represents	 relationships	 that	 are	 more	 formal	 and
contractual	 in	nature,	 and	 in	which	 roles,	duties,	 and	commitments	 are	 clearly
proscribed.
Arbitration,	 justice,	 reason,	 comparison,	 mediation,	 negotiation,	 and

agreement	 are	 words	 associated	 with	 this	 sign.	 Positive	 Librans	 exhibit	 an
inherent	 detachment	 and	 ability	 to	weigh,	 balance,	 and	 reasonably	 assess	 the
merits	of	a	situation.	Libra	is	also	associated	with	art	and	beauty,	especially	in
terms	of	form	and	design.	Librans	seek	harmonious	unions	with	others	to	find
the	 complement	 to	 their	 own	 qualities	 that	 will	 ensure	 and	 enhance	 their
success.	 Cooperation,	 especially	 with	 a	 mate	 or	 partner,	 is	 of	 the	 utmost
importance	to	them.
A	 typical	 pitfall	 of	 Libra	 in	 its	 negative	 mode	 can	 be	 indecisiveness	 and

timidity	brought	on	by	its	tendency	to	endlessly	weigh	things	and	to	be	fearful
of	 others'	 disapproval.	 When	 Librans	 are	 capable	 of	 acting	 decisively	 after
carefully	 weighing	 things	 properly,	 they	 become	 potential	 leaders	 and
counselors	able	 to	solve	problems	and	end	disputes	and	conflicts.	The	kind	of
alliances	a	Libra	forms	determine	the	kind	of	rewards	he	or	she	will	reap.	With
their	 special	 need	 for	union	and	companionship	 and	 strong	concern	 for	peace
and	 harmony,	 it	 is	 of	 vital	 importance	 that	 Librans	maintain	 a	 sense	 of	 their
individuality	in	their	relationships	with	others.
Venus	 imbues	 Libra	 with	 charm,	 sensuality,	 and	 graceful	 selfexpression,

along	with	a	strong	desire	for	popularity.	However,	positive	Librans	will	never
compromise	 their	principles	 to	gain	approval,	 as	 they	are	as	equally	aware	of
humiliation	 as	 they	 are	 approbation.	 As	 an	 air	 sign,	 they	 are	 prone	 to	 be
intellectuals	and	active	seekers	of	knowledge.	All	matters	pertaining	to	human
relationships	 and	 psychology	 are	 of	 vital	 interest	 to	 them,	 and	 they	 are



especially	adept	at	analyzing	what	is	occurring	in	the	society	around	them.
In	 a	 relationship	 or	 marriage,	 Libra	 seeks	 mutual	 appreciation	 and

commitment.	 Cooperation	 is	 the	 basic	 aim	 toward	 which	 Libra	 directs	 its
energies.	Tactful	and	graceful	concern	for	the	partner	needs	to	be	balanced	with
respect	for	the	Libran's	own	personal	aims	and	concerns.
Libra	 rules	 the	 lower	 abdominal	 cavity,	 the	 lumbar,	 lower	 ribs,	 kidneys,

ureters,	adrenal	glands,	ovaries,	and	oviducts.
	

Sun	in	Scorpio—October	24	to	November	22

I	desire.
Symbol:	The	Scorpion
Planetary	Rulers:	Mars	and	Pluto
Element:	Water
Quality:	Fixed
Complementary	Sign:	Taurus
Scorpio	 is	 the	 sign	 concerned	with	 the	 sharing	 of	wealth	 and	 resources,	 both
physically	and	mentally.	As	 the	eighth	sign	directly	following	Libra,	Scorpio's
primary	concern	should	be	the	proper	alignment	of	its	talents	and	resources	with
those	 it	 is	 in	communion	with.	 It	 is,	 in	 its	positive	manifestation,	 the	sign	 that
enriches	 others.	When	 Scorpio	 shares	 what	 it	 possesses	 with	 its	 partner,	 it	 is
itself	enriched.
More	than	any	other	sign,	Scorpio	deals	with	the	processes	of	transformation

and	self-renewal,	which	can	be	manifested	on	a	high	or	low	level,	depending	on
motivation.	This	 sign	 is	 strongly	driven	by	desire,	 including	 sex,	 and	 there	 is
great	emotional	force	behind	all	of	its	attachments.	As	a	result,	when	negative,
Scorpio	can	be	possessive	and	 jealous,	and	 its	vengeance	can	be	 lethal	 if	 it	 is
crossed	or	scorned.
Like	 Cancer	 and	 Pisces—the	 other	 water	 signs—Scorpio	 is	 inclined	 to	 be



covert	and	secretive,	intuitively	connected	to	life's	mysteries	and	relying	on	its
psychic	 powers	 and	 feelings.	 Indeed,	 Scorpios	 can	 be	 highly	 psychic	without
being	 aware	 of	 it,	 a	 power	 that	 can	 be	 dangerous	 or	 destructive	 when
misdirected	or	not	properly	applied.	To	Scorpio,	a	fixed	water	sign,	life	can	be
seen	as	a	glacier	that	one	has	to	cross,	avoiding	the	many	emotional	and	sensual
crevasses	 that	present	 themselves	along	 the	way.	A	struggle	with	 the	passions
can	 be,	 for	 Scorpio,	 a	 prelude	 to	 self-transformation	 and	 renewal.	 However,
being	a	sign	of	will	and	desire,	it	is	easy	for	the	lower	type	to	use	its	personal
magnetism,	 astute	 insight,	 and	 hypnotic	 powers	 to	 gain	 personal	 advantage,
which	is	the	last	thing	a	Scorpio	should	be	concerned	about.
The	 eagle,	 the	 highest	 manifestation	 of	 the	 Scorpio	 principle,	 uses	 its

penetrating	 intelligence	 to	 regenerate	 and	 heal	 life's	 defects.	 This	 can	 be
especially	 true	 in	 relationships,	 in	 which	 Scorpios	 can	 be	 instrumental	 in
alleviating	 the	emotional	 and/or	 sexual	problems	of	 their	partners.	This	 is	 the
sign	 associated	 with	 the	 surgeon,	 the	 biologist,	 the	 scientist,	 the	 depth
psychologist,	 and	 others	 who	 study	 and	 comprehend	 the	 forces	 of	 life	 and
death.	They	are	compelled	to	 investigate	 the	hidden	nature	of	 things,	and	as	a
result	 tend	 to	 excel	 in	 work	 involving	 detection,	 research,	 science,	 and	 the
occult.	When	 spiritually	developed,	 they	derive	great	power	 from	 their	 innate
abilities	to	tap	into	life's	fundamental	creative	and	regenerative	forces.
Scorpios	 never	 deal	 with	 life	 superficially,	 and	 no	 other	 sign	 has	 such	 a

potent	capacity	for	good	or	evil.	Unlike	Aries,	the	other	sign	ruled	by	Mars	and
Pluto,	they	have	tremendous	staying	power	(being	a	fixed	sign)	and	will	see	any
matter	through	to	the	bitter	end,	regardless	of	the	effort	and	sacrifice	required.
Physically,	they	tend	to	be	robust	and	often	possess	hypnotically	penetrating

eyes	 and	 an	 alluring	 mystique	 (think	 of	 Picasso,	 in	 many	 ways	 a	 typical
Scorpio).
Romantically,	 Scorpio	 seeks	 sexual	 union	 and	 fulfillment	 along	 with	 an

equitable	sharing	of	resources.
Scorpio	 rules	 the	 lower	 intestines,	 rectum,	 anus,	 sacral	 and	 pubic	 areas,

buttocks,	bladder,	urethra,	genitals,	appendix,	and	sweat	glands.
	



Sun	in	Sagittarius—November	23	to	December	21

I	see.
Symbol:	The	Archer
Planetary	Ruler:	Jupiter
Element:	Fire
Quality:	Mutable
Complementary	Sign:	Gemini
Truth	 and	 a	deep	 love	of	 liberty	 and	 freedom	are,	 in	many	ways,	 the	primary
concerns	 of	 Sagittarius,	 the	 third	 of	 the	 fire	 signs.	 A	 high-minded	 idealism,
frankness,	swift	yet	precise	judgment,	and	boldness	of	action	are	characteristic
of	 those	 born	 under	 the	 sign	 of	 the	Archer.	 Here	 is	 the	 serious	 philosophical
thinker,	concerned	with	ideas	and	the	overall	wellbeing	of	society	and	the	ethics
and	laws	that	govern	it.	They	are	at	home	with	abstract	 thoughts	and	concepts
and	 possess	 a	 deep	 yearning	 for	 knowledge	 and	 experience.	 They	 are	 honest,
generous,	gregarious,	and	just,	concerned	with	the	approval	and	harmony	of	the
society	in	which	they	live.
Idealism	is	a	hallmark	of	Sagittarius,	but	this	same	zeal	can	become	religious

or	 political	 fanaticism	 or	 a	 blind	 adherence	 to	 dogmas	 and	 laws.	 They	 can
become	 narrowminded	 and	 bigoted	 according	 to	 the	 biases	 of	 the	 social	 and
moral	 standards	 to	 which	 they	 subscribe.	 In	 these	 cases,	 it	 is	 vital	 that	 the
Sagittarian	 evolve	 mentally	 beyond	 such	 limitations	 and	 embrace	 more
expansive	concepts.
Sagittarians	 have	 an	 uncanny	 ability	 to	 see	 the	 future	 based	 on	 their

perceptions	of	the	current	trends	and	events	around	them.	Their	visceral	desire
for	knowledge	and	experience	makes	 them	highly	adventurous,	both	mentally
and	physically,	and	in	both	realms	they	will	travel	far	and	wide.
The	swiftness	and	accuracy	of	the	Archer	can	also	make	them	impulsive	and

prone	 to	 jump	 to	 conclusions	 without	 considering	 all	 the	 factors	 involved.



Sagittarians	who	shoot	at	their	targets	without	the	required	discipline	and	skill
can	become	hopelessly	lost	in	the	forest	in	which	they	hunt.	They	do,	however,
always	 speak	 the	 truth	 as	 to	 how	 they	 see	 it,	 and	 they	 can	 be	 unmerciful	 in
dealing	with	their	enemies.
For	some,	it	may	be	necessary	to	develop	a	sense	of	logic	to	go	along	with

their	 ideals,	 expansive	 enthusiasm,	 and	 grandiose	 plans.	 Overconfidence	 and
excessive	zeal	can	lead	to	taking	reckless	chances	and	making	hasty	judgments.
The	more	knowledge	and	understanding	 the	Sagittarian	can	acquire,	 the	more
he	or	she	is	able	to	accomplish.
The	 sharing	of	 an	 ideal	 or	 idea,	 along	with	 a	 spirit	 of	mental	 and	physical

adventure	 that	more	often	 than	not	 involves	 the	willingness	 to	 travel,	 is	at	 the
heart	of	what	Sagittarius	seeks	in	a	mate.
Sagittarius	rules	the	thighs,	hips,	liver,	and	gall	bladder.

	

Sun	in	Capricorn—December	22	to	January	20

I	use.
Symbol:	The	Goat
Planetary	Ruler:	Saturn
Element:	Earth
Quality:	Cardinal
Complementary	Sign:	Cancer
At	its	best,	Capricorn	symbolizes	the	paternal	side	of	human	nature,	as	Cancer,
its	 complementary	 opposite,	 represents	 the	 maternal.	 Capricorn	 looks	 to	 the
future	 based	 on	 the	 past,	 learning	 from	 humanity's	 mistakes	 as	 well	 as	 its
achievements,	 and	 is	 thus	 able	 to	 use	 and	 capitalize	 on	 things	 of	 quality	 and
worth.	In	its	quest	for	excellence	and	recognition,	no	task	or	detail	is	too	tedious
or	 mundane	 for	 the	 sure-footed	 goat	 as	 it	 cautiously	 makes	 it	 way	 along	 the



perilous	trails	leading	to	the	mountain	heights.	Carelessness,	lack	of	order,	and
ill-defined	 duties	 and	 goals	 can	 bring	 about	 the	 downfall	 of	 those	 driven	 by
Saturn's	ambition.
Having	 great	 faith	 in	 their	 own	 power,	 and	with	 their	 practical	 knowledge

and	capacity	for	hard	work,	they	are	never	deterred	by	any	obstacles	that	stand
in	their	way	and	are	extremely	adept	at	finding	solutions	to	difficult	problems.
In	 fact,	 just	 being	 a	Capricorn	means	 that	 there	 are	 obstacles	 or	 barriers	 that
must	be	overcome	or	burdens	 to	be	carried.	They	are	born	with	 the	ability	 to
utilize	 everything	 they	 see,	 hear,	 or	 learn.	 For	 Capricorn,	 success	 means
material	security,	and	they	will	strive	relentlessly	to	achieve	it.	Capricorns	tend
to	 be	 old	when	 they	 are	 young,	 and	 young	when	 they	 are	 old,	making	 them
long-lived	and	thus	desirous	of	acquiring	power	and	money	as	a	way	to	forestall
being	dependent	on	anyone.
Although	 they	will	 inevitably	 find	 themselves	 in	 a	 position	 of	 authority	 or

power,	Capricorns	are	always	aware	 there	 is	 a	higher	 authority	 to	which	 they
must	answer.	They	are	extremely	conscious	of	 the	chain	of	command	 in	 their
climb	 to	 the	 top.	 In	 outlook	 and	 attitude,	 they	 are	 basically	 traditional	 and
conservative.
Besides	giving	in	to	ruthless	ambition,	negative	Capricorns	can	harbor	dark

fears	 of	 hidden	 enemies	 and	 have	 overly	 stern,	 serious,	 and	 taciturn	 natures,
which	 can,	 in	 fact,	 cause	mistrust	 and	 resentment	 in	 those	 around	 them,	 thus
creating	a	 self-fulfilling	prophesy.	Melancholic	brooding	and	brusqueness	can
also	deprecate	this	sign	in	the	eyes	of	others,	especially	subordinates.
Positive	Capricorns,	on	the	other	hand,	have	great	executive	abilities	and	are

able	 to	 dexterously	 handle	 any	 criticism,	 controversy,	 responsibility,	 or
competition	they	may	encounter.	At	its	highest	evolution,	this	is	the	most	public
of	 signs,	and	 the	best	way	 for	 the	Capricorn	 to	achieve	his	or	her	goals	 is	by
maintaining	integrity	and	clarity	in	all	dealings.
In	marriage,	 the	Capricorn	 primarily	 seeks	 stability	 and	 a	 partner	who	 can

further,	in	some	way,	his	or	her	career	or	social	status.	The	partner	must	also	be
capable	 of	 accepting	 responsibility	 and	 making	 his	 or	 her	 own	 way.	 Here,
loyalty	and	dedication	may	be	more	important	than	passion.
Capricorn	rules	the	knees,	joints,	ligaments	and	bones	in	general,	teeth,	hair,

and	the	epidermis.
	



Sun	in	Aquarius—January	21	to	February	18

I	know.
Symbol:	The	Water	Bearer
Planetary	Ruler:	Uranus
Element:	Air
Quality:	Fixed
Complementary	Sign:	Leo
Traditionally	known	as	the	sign	of	hope	and	the	sign	of	humanity,	Aquarius,	the
Water-Bearer,	 symbolizes	 universal	 brotherhood,	 spiritual	 nourishment,
objective	truth,	and	social	justice.	Altruism	motivates	many	Aquarians'	actions,
and	 they	 seek	 alliances	 with	 like-minded	 groups	 and	 individuals.	 Rarely	 do
Aquarians	 accomplish	 their	 aims	 by	 their	 own	 actions,	 and	 their	 success
depends	 upon	 their	 influence	 and	 the	 quality	 of	 those	 with	 whom	 they	 are
associated.	 Their	 interest	 in	 and	 sympathy	 for	 the	 human	 condition	 wins	 the
respect	and	confidence	of	those	around	them.	Ruled	by	Uranus,	freedom	is	very
important	to	Aquarians,	and	yet	those	they	befriend	benefit	from	the	unswerving
Aquarian	loyalty.
Although	a	fixed	sign,	Aquarians	can	be	eccentric	as	well	as	determined	and

stubborn.	Bizarre	behavior	and	eccentricity	for	its	own	sake	are	an	arrested	or
retarded	 application	 of	 Aquarian	 consciousness.	 Egalitarian	 in	 outlook	 and
nature,	Aquarians	tend	to	be	intolerant	of	affectation,	snobbery,	and	hypocrisy.
They	 like	 to	act	as	equals	among	equals.	They	derive	an	honest	enjoyment	 in
meeting	 new	 people	 and	 exchanging	 ideas.	 Aquarians	 relate	 to	 others	 on	 a
mental	level.	Reason	rather	than	emotion	is	their	strength	and	means.	They	are
good	friends	of	both	sexes,	and	see	no	reason	for	giving	up	a	 friendship,	say,
because	of	 the	possessive	concerns	of	marriage.	They	represent,	 idealistically,
the	 angels	 of	 the	Zodiac,	 the	 spiritually	 and	mentally	 androgynous	 individual
who	 transcends	 the	barriers	of	 sex,	 race,	creed,	and	culture.	They	are	 the	 true
advocates	 of	 both	 platonic	 and	 universal	 love.	 It	 can	 be	 said	 that	 Aquarius's
heart	belongs	to	the	world.



Weaker	Aquarians	often	have	to	learn	how	to	assert	themselves	in	a	decisive
manner	 and	 how	 to	 aid	 others	while	 retaining	 their	 own	 individuality.	When
objective	and	ordered,	Aquarius	acquires	the	willpower	to	act	with	freedom	and
breadth.	Originality	enhanced	by	positive	and	creative	relationships,	along	with
a	 vision	 of	 the	 future,	 mark	 the	 brilliance	 of	 Aquarius	 at	 its	 shining	 best.
Galileo,	Charles	Darwin,	and	Abraham	Lincoln	are	among	the	finest	examples
of	the	Aquarian	principle	at	work	upon	the	world.
Aquarians'	 outward	 appearance	 of	 calm	 and	 detachment	 can	 be	 deceptive.

Inwardly,	they	are	prone	to	levels	of	anxiety	that	can	make	them	ill.	They	take
their	work	 extremely	 seriously	 and	are	often	nervous	 and	apprehensive.	They
work	 best	 in	 partnerships	 or	with	 organizations	 that	 are	 attempting	 to	 realize
some	ideal	in	which	their	accumulated	knowledge,	excellent	memories,	love	of
freedom,	and	humanitarianism	can	find	their	outward	expression.
Romantically,	Aquarius	seeks	a	partner	who	is	as	much	a	friend	as	a	 lover.

Many	 Aquarians	 tend	 to	 be	 experimental	 when	 it	 comes	 to	 love	 and	 are
frustrated	 and	 disappointed	 when	 their	 partner	 turns	 out	 to	 be	 too	 insular	 or
inadaptable.	 The	Water-Bearer	 places	 great	 value	 on	 intellectual	 rapport	 in	 a
relationship.
Aquarius	rules	the	lower	legs,	the	calves	and	ankles,	and	blood	circulation.

	

Sun	in	Pisces—February	19	to	March	20

I	believe.
Symbol:	The	Two	Fishes
Planetary	Rulers:	Neptune	and	Jupiter
Element:	Water
Quality:	Mutable
Complementary	Sign:	Virgo
Pisces,	the	twelfth	and	last	sign,	is	said	to	unconsciously	possess	the	experience



and	knowledge	of	the	eleven	other	signs	that	have	come	before	it.	It	is	the	final
stage	 on	 the	 wheel	 before	 the	 beginning	 of	 the	 new	 cycle,	 which	 starts	 once
again	with	Aries.	In	that	sense,	as	was	stated	earlier,	Pisces	is	both	the	end	and
the	beginning.	Pisces	is	able	to	understand,	transmute,	and	transcend	emotional
and	 psychic	 problems.	 In	 Cancer,	 the	 first	 water	 sign,	 emotional	 and	 sexual
problems	are	either	contained	in	the	subconscious	or	repressed.	In	the	next	water
sign,	 Scorpio,	 the	 struggle	 is	 to	 face	 and	 release	 them	 from	 the	 instinctive
control	 of	 the	 subconscious	 as	 an	 act	 of	 will.	 In	 Pisces,	 the	 challenge	 is	 to
comprehend	 and	 transcend	 all	 the	 negative	 passions	 and	 emotions	 that	 are
essentially	unconscious	in	origin	and	that	bind	and	limit	us	and	cause	problems
in	our	relationships	with	others.	Pisces	only	becomes	the	sign	of	suffering	and
bondage	when	it	fails	to	do	this.	In	the	deep	ocean	in	which	Pisces	dwells,	the
individual	 either	 sinks	 or	 swims.	 In	 Pisces	 we	 find	 both	 the	 weakest	 and
strongest,	often	together	in	a	conflicted	duality,	as	symbolized	by	its	sign	of	two
fish	 swimming	 in	 opposite	 directions,	 clearly	 a	 Western	 or	 Middle	 Eastern
depiction	of	the	Chinese	Taoist	t'ai	chi	symbol,	the	circle	divided	into	light	and
dark,	yang	and	yin,	the	primal	beginning	of	all	things.
Nearly	all	Pisces	individuals	will	experience	personal	suffering	in	life.	This

is	part	of	the	Pisces	lesson,	to	be	able	to	feel	sympathy	for	others	on	a	visceral
as	 well	 as	 mental	 level.	 Pisces	 attains	 a	 broad	 understanding	 of	 the	 human
condition	 along	with	 the	 ability	 to	 aid	 and	 heal	 the	 less	 fortunate	 and	 is	 thus
said	 to	 be	 the	 sign	 of	 compassion.	 The	 idea	 is	 that	 the	 Piscean	 purpose	 is	 to
mitigate,	 bring	 relief,	 and	 help	 others.	 Some	 form	 of	 personal	 sacrifice	 or
expression	 of	 humility	 for	 the	 benefit	 of	 the	 world	 seems	 to	 be	 required	 of
nearly	every	Piscean.
Pisces	 is	 sensitive	 to	 the	emotional	nuances	of	others,	 and	 the	more	highly

developed	of	this	sign	are	able	to	identify	and	combat	unconscious	forces	with
great	powers	of	penetration	and	perception.
Weaker	 Neptunians	 can	 be	 prone	 to	 too	 much	 secrecy,	 along	 with	 an

exaggerated	 concern	 with	 intangible	 and	 imaginary	 forces	 as	 a	 means	 of
escaping	 from	 the	 responsibilities	 of	 daily	 life.	 Some	 may	 turn	 to	 an
overreliance	 on	 the	 occult,	 intoxicating	 substances,	 dishonest	 practices,
overindulgence	 in	 food	 and	 sex,	 and	 other	 self-depreciating	 habits.	 In	 this
negative	 mode,	 Pisces	 must	 overcome	 a	 morbid	 sense	 of	 fatalism	 or
victimization	 and	 realize	 that	 they	 are	 not	 chained	 to	 a	 destiny	 that	 is	 not	 of
their	own	making.
This	 same	 impulse	 to	 seek	 oblivion,	 to	 escape	 into	 a	 dream	 world,	 when

positively	directed	and	controlled,	can	lead	to	a	rich	and	productive	life	of	the



imagination,	 producing	 admirable	 artistic	 abilities.	 Many	 excellent	 writers,
musicians,	 singers,	painters,	 sculptors,	 and	dancers	are	born	under	 the	 sign	of
Pisces.	On	an	esoteric	or	archetypal	 level,	Pisces	 represents	 the	high	priest	of
the	temple,	the	attendant	of	the	Holy	Grail	who	guards	its	secrets	with	his	life.
Pisces	rules	the	feet,	traditionally	associated	with	the	understanding	of	man.

In	Sophocles'	 play,	Oedipus	 the	King,	 the	 feet	 of	 the	 newborn	 child	 of	Laius
and	 Jocasta	 are	 riveted	 together	 by	 an	 iron	 pin.	 The	 child,	 Oedipus,	 is	 then
given	 to	 a	 hunter	 who	 is	 ordered	 to	 cast	 him	 out	 on	 a	 mountainside	 to	 die
because	of	a	prophecy	 that	Oedipus	will	kill	his	 father	and	marry	his	mother.
The	hunter	does	not	have	the	heart	to	abandon	the	child	and	delivers	him	to	the
queen	of	Corinth.	Having	reached	young	adulthood,	Oedipus,	traveling	on	foot
toward	Thebes,	encounters	the	Sphinx	and	successfully	answers	its	riddle	(those
who	fail,	die):	What	creature	walks	on	four	legs	in	the	morning,	two	at	midday,
then	 three	 in	 the	 evening?	The	 answer:	Man.	 Intuition	 combined	with	 reason
thus	 brings	 about	 the	 destruction	 of	 the	 Sphinx,	 the	 female	 riddler.	 He	 then
meets	a	belligerent	stranger	at	a	place	where	three	roads	meet	(the	sexual	area
of	 the	 body),	 whom	 he	 slays.	 This	 stranger,	 unbeknown	 to	 Oedipus,	 is	 his
father,	 Laius.	 Upon	 reaching	 Thebes,	 he	 falls	 in	 love	 with	 and	 marries	 his
mother.	The	play	is	a	questioning	of	man's	fate	versus	free	will,	one	of	our	most
ancient	 and	 primordial	 dramas	 and	 an	 issue	 of	 great	 moral	 concern	 to	 the
Hellenic	Greeks	 and	 utterly	 Piscean	 in	 its	 questions	 and	 concerns.	 The	 name
Oedipus	 comes	 from	 the	Greek	word	meaning	 “swollen	 foot,”	 a	 result	 of	 his
riveted	ankles.	Another	potent	example	of	Piscean	symbolism	 is	 that	of	Mary
Magdalene	washing	the	feet	of	Christ	and	drying	them	with	her	hair.
Pisces	are	acutely	sensitized	to	the	whole	of	human	suffering	and	possess	the

ability	 to	see	 the	 truth	behind	symbol	and	 ritual.	This	sign	also	stands	 for	 the
marketplace	 to	 which	 traders,	 buyers,	 and	 pilgrims	 travel	 from	 all	 over	 the
world.
In	marriage,	Pisces	seeks	loving	support,	a	“soul	mate”	who	understands	the

Piscean	 need	 for	 creative	 solitude	 or	 privacy,	 while	 matching	 the	 depth	 of
emotion	and	passion	that	Pisces	brings	to	its	relationships.	Trust	and	loyalty	are
very	important	to	them,	as	they	tend	to	be	blind	to	the	faults	of	those	they	love.
Pisces	rules	the	feet,	the	lymphatic	system,	and	fatty	tissues.

	



The	Sun	in	the	Houses
The	 Sun	 in	 the	 houses	 represents	 the	 areas	 of	 life	 most	 strongly	 affected	 by
expressions	of	individual	power	and	will.

The	Sun	in	the	1st	House
The	 Sun	 in	 the	 1st	House	 indicates	 abundant	 vitality	 combined	with	 a	 strong
will	 and	 intense	 self-awareness.	 Initiative,	 leadership,	 ambition,	 and	 self-
determination,	 the	desire	 to	 follow	one's	own	course,	are	highly	characteristic.
These	 individuals	 possess	 great	 reserves	 of	 energy	 and	 strong	 recuperative
powers	that	enable	them	to	overcome	physical	afflictions	and	ailments	of	almost
every	kind.	Distinction	 and	 esteem	are	of	 paramount	 importance	 to	 them,	 and
they	 will	 work	 long	 and	 hard	 to	 achieve	 it.	 If	 the	 Sun	 is	 afflicted	 in	 the	 1st
House,	the	individual	can	suffer	from	excessive	pride,	egotism,	compulsiveness,
and	the	desire	to	dominate	or	rule	others.

The	Sun	in	the	2nd	House
The	Sun	 in	 the	2nd	House	 indicates	how	 the	 individual	uses	money	and	other
material	resources.	Here,	 the	proper	management	and	utilization	of	money	and
property	must	 be	 learned.	 The	 Sun	 sign	 position	 is	 a	 strong	 indicator	 of	 how
income	and	resources	are	acquired	and	used.
If	the	Sun	is	afflicted	in	the	2nd	House,	there	can	be	an	exaggerated	concern

with	wealth	 and	material	 gains	 at	 the	 expense	 of	 other	 values.	These	 persons
may	also	frivolously	squander	their	wealth	in	the	name	of	self-aggrandizement
and	ego	gratification.

The	Sun	in	the	3rd	House
Here	we	see	a	strong	drive	to	achieve	distinction	through	intellectual	brilliance
and	accomplishments.	A	strong	scientific	bent	may	be	indicated.	Owing	to	their
curiosity,	 these	 individuals	 have	 a	 strong	 desire	 to	 travel	 and	 are	 eager	 to



investigate	 anything	new,	 especially	when	 it	 is	 related	 to	matters	 ruled	by	 the
Sun	 sign	 and	 their	 particular	 field	 of	 activity.	 Brothers,	 sisters,	 friends,	 and
neighbors	mostly	likely	play	major	roles	in	their	lives,	and	the	ability	to	clearly
express	 and	 communicate	 their	 ideas	 is	 very	 important	 to	 them.	 If	 the	 Sun	 is
afflicted	 in	 the	 3rd	 House,	 the	 individual	 may	 suffer	 from	 arrogance	 and
intellectual	snobbery,	with	a	tendency	to	impose	his	or	her	ideas	on	others.

The	Sun	in	the	4th	House
A	secure	home	and	family	 is	extremely	 important	 to	 the	Sun	in	 the	4th-House
individual.	 They	 tend	 to	 be	 proud	 of	 their	 family	 heritage	 and	wish	 for	 their
homes	to	be	the	showpieces	by	which	they	are	perceived	and	judged.	The	first
part	of	 their	 lives	may	often	be	a	difficult	 struggle	 to	obtain	 the	property	 they
desire,	with	increasing	prosperity	and	security	coming	later	 in	 life.	The	Sun	in
the	 4th	 House	 indicates	 a	 strong	 interest	 in	 real	 estate	 (land	 and	 houses),
ecology,	and	natural	resources.
When	 the	Sun	 is	 afflicted	 in	 the	4th	House,	 there	may	be	excessive	 family

pride,	 conflict	with	 parents,	 and	 a	 desire	 to	 dominate	 and	 even	 tyrannize	 the
domestic	scene.

The	Sun	in	the	5th	House
Here	we	see	a	joyful	love	of	life	and	a	strong	drive	for	creative	selfexpression.
These	 individuals	 are	 highly	 competitive,	 inclined	 toward	 sports	 and	 artistic
pursuits.	They	seek	pleasure	and	romance	with	others,	have	radiant	dispositions,
and	tend	to	attract	many	friends.	They	wish	to	be	noticed	and	appreciated.	They
can,	 however,	 sometimes	 appear	 as	 egocentric,	 overly	 dramatic,	 petulant,	 and
childish—haughty	prima	donnas.
People	with	a	5th-House	Sun	are	ardent	lovers,	and	falling	in	love	can	be	all-

consuming	 for	 them.	 In	 spite	 of	 their	 highly	 amorous	 natures,	 they	 are	 very
capable	 of	 being	 loyal	 to	 one	 person.	 They	 have	 a	 great	 love	 of	 children,
although,	 if	 the	Sun	is	 in	one	of	 the	fire	signs,	 they	may	have	few	or	none	of
their	own.

The	Sun	in	the	6th	House
People	with	 the	Sun	 in	 the	6th	House	 seek	 fulfillment	 and	distinction	 through
their	 work	 and	 service,	 in	 which	 they	 take	 great	 pride.	 Their	 self-esteem	 is
related	 directly	 to	 their	 work.	 If	 their	 work	 is	 not	 outwardly	 recognized	 or
appreciated,	they	can	become	resentful	toward	their	employers.	Employees	with
the	Sun	in	this	position	will	demand	rights	and	privileges,	while	employers	with



the	Sun	in	the	6th	House	can	be	exacting	and	authoritarian.
The	Sun	in	the	6th	House	tends	to	indicate	delicate	health,	with	the	need	to

pay	 careful	 attention	 to	 diet	 and	 exercise.	 If	 the	 Sun	 is	 well	 aspected,	 the
individual	has	an	intuitive	understanding	of	how	to	maintain	his	or	her	health.
There	 may	 even	 be	 an	 interest	 in	 a	 health-related	 career	 such	 as	 nursing	 or
medicine.	Good	employment	is	rarely	a	problem,	unless	the	Sun	is	afflicted,	in
which	case	long	periods	of	unemployment	can	be	the	result.

The	Sun	in	the	7th	House
The	 Sun	 in	 the	 7th	 House	 indicates	 a	 strong	 capacity	 for	 close	 personal
relationships.	When	the	Sun	is	well	aspected,	the	individual	attracts	strong	and
loyal	 friends.	 Marriage	 is	 of	 paramount	 importance	 and	 can	 add	 to	 greater
success	in	life.	When	the	Sun	is	afflicted,	there	can	be	a	tendency	to	dominate	or
be	dominated	by	one's	partner,	with	a	need	to	learn	cooperation	and	respect	for
others.

The	Sun	in	the	8th	House
The	Sun	 in	 the	 8th	House	points	 to	 an	underlying	 interest	 in	 the	mysteries	 of
life,	especially	death,	the	transmigration	of	the	soul,	and	other	notions	pertaining
to	the	continuation	of	consciousness	and	the	possibility	of	an	afterlife.	Spiritual
growth	 and	 self-improvement	 come	 as	 a	 result	 of	 conscious	 will.	 In	 all
likelihood,	the	individual	will	have	direct	personal	experience	of	a	deeper	reality
beyond	material	circumstances,	making	him	or	her	fearless	in	the	knowledge	of
life's	fundamental	principles.	Much	can	be	required	and	much	can	be	gained.	On
a	 more	 mundane	 level,	 there	 will	 be	 concerns	 with	 such	 material	 matters	 as
taxes,	insurance,	inheritance,	and	the	finances	and	assets	of	one's	partner.	It	can
indicate	 inheritances	 and	 legacies	 or,	 if	 afflicted,	 troubles	 with	 these	matters,
including	divorce	settlements.

The	Sun	in	the	9th	House
The	 Sun's	 position	 in	 the	 9th	 House	 shows	 a	 dynamic	 interest	 in	 spiritual,
religious,	and	philosophical	pursuits.	The	intuitive	intellect	is	developed,	active,
and	capable	of	insights	that	can	border	on	the	prophetic.	There	is	a	keen	interest
in	 international	 affairs	 and	 foreign	 countries	 and	 their	 cultures,	 often
accompanied	by	a	strong	desire	to	travel.	If	the	Sun	is	in	one	of	the	fixed	signs
—Taurus,	 Leo,	 Scorpio,	 or	 Aquarius—the	 urge	 to	 travel	 may	 be	 greatly
reduced.	If	Leo	is	on	the	4th	House	cusp,	the	individual	will	most	likely	end	up
living	far	from	his	or	her	childhood	home.



The	Sun	in	the	10th	House
The	Sun	here	denotes	strong	ambition	to	attain	positions	of	power	and	authority.
Many	 politicians	 have	 the	 Sun	 in	 the	 10th	 House.	 Along	 with	 the	 drive	 for
power	comes	an	enhanced	sense	of	social	responsibility.	There	is	a	strong	desire
for	honor	and	recognition,	and	a	capacity	 to	work	hard	in	order	 to	achieve	the
desired	 success.	Often,	 these	 individuals	 are	 born	 into	 families	 of	 high	 social
standing	and	possess	an	acute	sense	of	personal	dignity	and	 the	 importance	of
moral	 integrity.	 When	 the	 Sun	 is	 afflicted,	 the	 opposite	 is	 true;	 they	 can	 be
ruthless	 and	 unscrupulous	 in	 their	 drive	 for	 power	 and	 subject	 to	 public
disgrace.

The	Sun	in	the	11th	House
Here	we	 find	an	 interest	 and	concern	with	 friendships	and	group	 relationships
and	activities.	There	 is	a	strong	interest	 in	scientific	endeavors	and	inventions,
as	well	as	 in	matters	 related	 to	 the	occult.	When	 the	Sun	 is	well	aspected,	 the
individual	 will	 have	 many	 friends	 and	 be	 held	 in	 high	 esteem.	 Humanitarian
feelings	 are	 strong,	 with	 a	 deeply	 rooted	 and	 impartial	 belief	 in	 individual
dignity	 and	 human	 rights.	 If	 the	 Sun	 is	 afflicted,	 there	 can	 be	 a	 tendency	 to
dominate	 others,	 often	 for	 selfish	 motives.	 The	 individual	 can	 also	 be	 easily
deceived	or	led	astray	by	others.

The	Sun	in	the	12th	House
Here	 the	 will	 is	 directed	 toward	 exploring	 and	 understanding	 one's	 personal
inner	 life,	 with	 a	 keen	 interest	 in	 psychology	 and	 psychic	 research.	 These
individuals	 are	often	quiet	 and	 retiring,	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 they	 can	be	 isolated
and	lonely.	However,	they	can	find	fulfillment	through	service	to	others.	If	the
Sun	is	afflicted	in	the	12th	House,	there	can	be	excessive	shyness,	neurosis,	and
a	desire	 to	control	others	 through	secret	or	clandestine	means.	There	may	also
be	secret	enemies	lurking	in	the	shadows.

The	Sun	in	Aspect
Aspects	of	the	Sun	all	reflect	in	some	way	the	fundamental	self	and	the	nature
and	use	of	willpower.

Sun	Conjunctions
Sun	conjunctions	denote	willpower,	initiative,	and	creative	abilities	in	regard	to
the	affairs	ruled	by	the	planet	or	planets	forming	the	conjunction	and	the	signs
and	 houses	 in	 which	 the	 conjunction	 is	 found.	 Whether	 this	 is	 positive	 or



negative	depends	on	the	other	aspects	made	to	 the	conjunction	and	the	planets
involved.

Sun	Sextiles
Sextiles	 of	 the	 Sun	 represent	 opportunities	 for	 creative	 selfexpression	 and
mental	growth	and	development	in	regard	to	the	affairs	ruled	by	the	Sun	in	its
house	 and	 sign	 position,	 by	 the	 planet	 or	 planets	 forming	 the	 sextile,	 and	 the
houses	they	occupy	and	rule.

Sun	Squares
Sun	squares	 indicate	difficulties	and	obstacles	 in	 the	wise	and	harmonious	use
of	 willpower.	 Difficulties	 and	 frustrations	 will	 be	 encountered	 in	 the	 affairs
ruled	by	the	planet	or	planets	involved	in	the	square	and	in	the	houses	and	signs
the	Sun	and	the	planet(s)	occupy	and	rule.

Sun	Trines
Trines	of	the	Sun	point	to	good	fortune	in	the	affairs	ruled	by	the	Sun	and	the
planet	 or	 planets	 forming	 the	 trine	 and	 the	 houses	 they	 rule	 and	 occupy.	 In
general,	 Sun	 trines	 favor	 love	 relationships.	 Benefits	 come	 through	 all	 things
related	to	the	Sun,	such	as	education,	the	arts,	and	children.

Sun	Oppositions
Oppositions	 to	 the	 Sun	 indicate	 conflicts	 of	 will	 between	 the	 individual	 and
those	ruled	by	the	planet	or	planets	forming	the	opposition.	The	nature	of	these
conflicts	is	determined	by	the	signs	and	houses	which	the	Sun	and	the	opposing
planet(s)	rule	and	occupy.



CHAPTER	6
The	Moon

The	Moon	 relates	 to	 the	 unconscious,	 all	 things	 emotional	 and	 feminine,	 or
yin,	and	often,	along	with	the	Ascendant,	tells	us	a	great	deal	about	the	physical
body	as	it	represents	what	we	put	into	it	in	the	form	of	nourishment.

The	Moon	in	the	Signs
The	Moon	in	the	signs	tells	us	about	how	life's	situations	tend	to	affect	us	on	the
emotional	 level,	 about	 family	 and	 early	 childhood	 and	 how	 those	 formative
experiences	color	our	emotional	outlook.

The	Moon	in	Aries
Those	 with	 the	 Moon	 in	 Aries	 are	 likely	 to	 be	 emotionally	 volatile	 and
impulsive.	They	may	 experience	 sudden	 flare-ups	 of	 temper	 that	 quickly	 pass
and	a	tendency	to	act	precipitously	without	any	regard	for	consequences.	These
individuals	 are	 extremely	 willful	 and	 independent.	 They	 have	 a	 tendency	 to
dominate	others	emotionally	and	are	prone	to	take	things	personally.

The	Moon	in	Taurus
The	Moon	in	Taurus	 indicates	 that	emotional	well-being	 is	based	primarily	on
financial	 and	 material	 security.	 The	 Moon	 in	 this	 sign	 attracts	 wealth.	 The
individual	will	have	a	fondness	for	good	food	and	comfortable	surroundings,	but
will	also	show	great	common	sense	in	handling	financial	and	domestic	affairs.
His	or	her	emotions	are	generally	steady	and	placid.	When	the	Moon	is	afflicted,
the	person	can	be	rigid	and	stubborn	and	may	show	a	tendency	toward	laziness
and	an	excessive	attachment	to	material	comforts.

The	Moon	in	Gemini
Here	 we	 will	 find	 a	 temperament	 that	 is	 highly	 emotional	 and	 vacillating,
although	 quick-witted	 and	 resourceful,	 with	 the	 ability	 to	 come	 up	 with
solutions	to	practical	problems	through	rational	analysis.	The	Moon	in	Gemini
can	 make	 for	 an	 incessant	 talker.	 These	 individuals	 are	 highly	 mental	 and
inclined	 to	 rationalize	 their	 emotions	 to	 the	 point	 of	 not	 really	 knowing	what
they	feel.	They	are	extremely	restless,	 likely	to	travel	a	great	deal,	and	change
their	 homes	 often	 or	 even	 have	 more	 than	 one	 home.	 When	 the	 Moon	 is



afflicted,	emotions	can	distort	reason,	and	they	may	experience	both	mental	and
emotional	confusion.

The	Moon	in	Cancer
The	Moon	 in	 Cancer	 indicates	 strong	 ties	 to	 the	 mother,	 the	 family,	 and	 the
home.	Here,	marriage	 and	 domestic	 security	 are	 important	 to	 emotional	well-
being.	These	individuals	are	extremely	sensitive	to	the	moods	of	others,	often	to
the	point	of	being	psychic.	They	make	good	homemakers,	parents,	and	cooks.
When	 the	 Moon	 is	 afflicted,	 they	 can	 be	 manipulative	 and	 domineering,
especially	with	their	children,	and	even	emotionally	unstable.

The	Moon	in	Leo
Here	there	is	a	strong	unconscious	need	to	be	appreciated	and	admired,	coupled
with	 an	 equally	 strong	 need	 for	 romance	 and	 affection.	 These	 individuals	 are
especially	fond	and	protective	of	their	children	and	love	entertainment	in	all	its
forms.	They	 are	 extremely	proud	 and	 can	be	 self-centered,	 stubborn,	 and	 also
highly	 susceptible	 to	 flattery.	 Self-dramatization	 is	 a	 common	 characteristic
with	the	Moon	in	Leo,	along	with	a	tendency	to	dominate	others.	However,	their
need	 to	 love	 and	be	 loved	 is	 the	 fundamental	 driving	 force	 that	mitigates	 this
dramatic	energy.

The	Moon	in	Virgo
An	 exacting	 and	 hardworking	 personality	 is	 indicated	 by	 the	Moon	 in	Virgo.
Neatness	and	hygiene	are	of	particular	concern	to	these	individuals,	along	with
diet	 and	 health.	 They	 tend	 to	 be	 shy	 and	 retiring,	 preferring	 to	 work	 quietly
behind	the	scenes,	and	happy	to	serve	as	dedicated	and	thorough	workers.	If	the
Moon	 is	 afflicted,	 there	 can	 be	 an	 obsession	 with	 cleanliness,	 order,	 and
inconsequential	details	along	with	a	quarrelsome	and	highly	critical	attitude.

The	Moon	in	Libra
Those	 born	 with	 the	 Moon	 in	 Libra	 will	 be	 distinguished	 by	 their	 personal
elegance	 and	 good	manners.	They	 are	 courteous	 and	 gracious	 to	 everyone,	 as
their	self-esteem	is	in	large	part	dependent	on	the	approval	of	others.	Coarseness
and	 vulgarity	 in	 any	 form	 are	 upsetting	 to	 them,	 as	 are	 any	 conflicts	 in	 their
relationships,	which	can	actually	have	an	adverse	effect	on	 their	health.	When
the	Moon	is	afflicted	here,	they	can	be	too	easily	influenced	by	and	subservient
to	the	opinions	and	approval	of	others—especially	their	marriage	partners—and
depend	 too	 much	 on	 others	 for	 their	 emotional	 security.	 Often,	 the	Moon	 in



Libra	 indicates	 a	 strong	 link	 to	 the	mother.	With	 their	 charm	and	grace,	 these
individuals	can	shine	in	areas	concerned	with	public	relations.

The	Moon	in	Scorpio
The	 Moon	 in	 Scorpio	 indicates	 a	 sensual	 nature	 and	 the	 strong	 pursuit	 of
personal	 pleasures,	 along	 with	 a	 proclivity	 for	 sexual	 adventures.	 However,
strong	 and	 biased	 emotions	 based	 on	 willful	 desire	 and	 a	 tendency	 to	 take
personal	 affairs	 extremely	 seriously—often	 leading	 to	 possessiveness	 and
jealously—	can	also	arise	from	the	Moon	in	Scorpio.	These	people	don't	easily
forget	or	forgive	personal	affronts,	and	they	may	have	a	tendency	to	brood	and
become	obsessed	with	revenge.	Given	their	strong	desires,	they	can	be	stubborn
and	unyielding.	However,	when	positively	aspected,	 the	Moon	in	Scorpio	sees
no	sacrifice	as	too	great	in	achieving	a	worthwhile	objective.

The	Moon	in	Sagittarius
Those	 with	 the	Moon	 in	 Sagittarius	 are	 by	 nature	 idealistic.	 They	 have	 high
aspirations	but	often	lack	a	realistic	sense	of	how	to	achieve	them.	They	adhere
strongly	 to	 the	 religious	 and	 philosophical	 beliefs	 instilled	 in	 them	 by	 their
parents.	As	a	result,	when	afflicted,	they	can	be	narrow-minded,	dogmatic,	and
judgmental,	lacking	in	compassion	and	objectivity.	On	the	bright	side,	they	can
be	optimistic,	cheerful,	adventurous,	and	curious	about	the	world,	with	a	love	of
travel	and	meeting	new	people.	Often,	 they	will	 take	up	residence	in	a	foreign
country	or	somewhere	far	from	their	original	home.

The	Moon	in	Capricorn
Capricorn	 Moon	 individuals	 are	 highly	 ambitious	 and	 hardworking,	 active
seekers	 of	 wealth	 and	 status	 both	 for	 themselves	 as	 well	 as	 for	 their	 family.
Often	they	are	late	bloomers,	with	success	finally	being	achieved	as	a	result	of
the	many	lessons	learned	during	the	long	climb	to	the	top.	The	Moon	shows	our
emotions,	and	Capricorn's	ruler,	Saturn,	places	a	kind	of	cold	efficiency	on	the
Moon's	 feelings.	However,	due	 to	Capricorn	being	a	 feminine	 sign,	 the	Moon
here	 can	 be	 as	 emotional	 as	 in	 any	 other	 sign.	 Capricorn	 is	 also	 the	 sign	 of
ambition	 and	 organization.	 Washington,	 Lincoln,	 Bismarck,	 Thomas	 Edison,
Ayn	Rand,	 and	Robert	Kennedy	 all	 had	Capricorn	Moons.	With	 the	Moon	 in
Capricorn	 there	 is	 an	 emotional	 need	 to	 be	 organized	 and	 get	 the	 job	 done.
These	individuals	may	be	insecure	about	their	own	worth	and	overly	sensitive	to
real	or	 imagined	criticisms	and	 slights.	Their	 life	 is	based	on	personal	dignity
and	ambition.	With	an	afflicted	Moon,	 they	can	be	calculating	and	 ruthless	 in



their	 drive	 to	 succeed,	with	 little	 or	 no	 respect	 for	 the	 feelings	 and	 desires	 of
others.

The	Moon	in	Aquarius
Here	we	 see	 a	 direct	 concern	 for	 and	 ability	 to	 sympathize	with	 the	 needs	 of
humanity.	Freedom	of	expression,	both	intellectual	and	emotional,	and	freedom
within	relationships	are	of	utmost	importance	to	persons	born	with	the	Moon	in
Aquarius.	 They	 are	 most	 likely	 to	 have	 unusual	 or	 nonconformist	 marriages.
Their	 homes	 are	 gathering	 places	 for	 friends	 and	 group	 activities.	 When
negative,	there	can	be	an	irrational	need	for	freedom	at	any	cost,	a	fear	of	close
personal	relationships,	and	even	a	tendency	to	emotional	perversity.

The	Moon	in	Pisces
These	 individuals	 can	 be	 highly	 sensitive	 and	 psychic,	 able	 to	 absorb	 the
thoughts	and	feelings	of	others,	at	times	to	the	point	of	being	mediumistic.	They
have	vivid	imaginations	and	are	often	poetically,	musically,	or	artistically	gifted.
Generally,	 they	 are	 kind	 and	 sympathetic	 owing	 to	 their	 sensitivity	 to	 others.
Their	extreme	impressionability	on	the	unconscious	or	intuitive	level,	however,
can	make	them	psychologically	vulnerable	 if	 they	do	not	know	how	to	protect
themselves	 emotionally.	 If	 the	Moon	 is	 afflicted,	 they	 can	 be	 highly	 neurotic
and	even	suffer	from	psychotic	conditions.

The	Moon	in	the	Houses
The	 Moon	 in	 the	 houses	 reflects	 the	 unconscious	 habits	 of	 the	 past	 and	 the
department	of	life	in	which	we	react	unconsciously	to	environmental	stimuli	as
well	as	to	other	people.	The	Moon's	house	position	can	also	indicate	the	types	of
activities	that	are	likely	to	occur	in	our	homes.

The	Moon	in	the	1st	House
Here,	the	individual's	self-awareness	and	expression	are	strongly	colored	by	his
or	 her	 emotions	 and	 childhood	 conditioning.	 These	 persons'	 moods	 and
responses	can	be	highly	changeable,	and	they	can	lack	a	clear	sense	of	direction
and	 purpose.	Often,	 other	 people	 have	 a	 strong	 influence	 on	 personal	 identity
and	can	become	involved	in	their	personal	affairs.

The	Moon	in	the	2nd	House
Here,	 a	 strong	 need	 for	 financial	 security	 and	 a	 stable	 home	 and	 family	 are
indicated.	 Emotional	 well-being	 in	 general	 is	 dependent	 on	material	 comfort.



The	 individual	 is	 likely	 to	 have	 good	 business	 sense,	 especially	 in	matters	 of
real	estate	and	property.	If	the	Moon	is	in	a	fixed	sign	or	an	earth	sign,	there	will
be	a	strong	ability	to	make	and	hold	onto	money.

The	Moon	in	the	3rd	House
Those	 with	 the	 Moon	 in	 the	 3rd	 House	 have	 insatiable	 curiosity	 and	 are
constantly	on	the	move.	They	have	a	 tendency	to	daydream	and	fantasize,	and
their	 thoughts	 and	 speech	are	 strongly	 influenced	by	 emotional	 factors	 arising
from	 early	 childhood	 and	 family	 relationships.	 In	 fact,	 their	 familial
relationships	influence	their	entire	outlook	and	much	of	their	activity	is	likely	to
involve	brothers	and	sisters.

The	Moon	in	the	4th	House
As	 the	4th	House	 relates	 to	 the	sign	Cancer,	which	 is	 ruled	by	 the	Moon,	 this
position	 indicates	 a	 strong	emotional	 attachment	 to	home	and	 family.	Parents,
especially	 the	 mother,	 represent	 a	 strong	 influence.	 These	 individuals	 will
almost	 always	 be	 especially	 fond	 of	 cooking	 and	 housekeeping,	 and	 they	 can
also	prosper	in	businesses	related	to	food,	domestic	products,	and	real	estate.	If
the	Moon	 is	 afflicted,	 they	 may	 experience	 a	 lack	 of	 domestic	 harmony	 and
stability.	If	well	situated,	financial	prospects	are	more	likely	to	be	better	in	the
second	half	of	life.

The	Moon	in	the	5th	House
The	Moon	in	this	house	can	indicate	fertility	and	child	bearing,	especially	if	it	is
in	 a	 water	 sign.	 These	 individuals	 are	 often	 very	 fond	 of	 children.	 Their
romantic	 attractions	 are	 based	 on	 emotional	 needs,	 making	 them	 emotionally
dependent	on	their	partners.	Their	affections	may	be	changeable	or	capricious	if
there	is	emotional	instability.

The	Moon	in	the	6th	House
The	Moon	 in	 the	 6th	House	 can	mean	 that	 the	 individual's	 health	 is	 strongly
influenced	by	emotional	states,	making	him	or	her	inclined	to	hypochondria	or
psychosomatic	 illness.	 Emotional	 states	 can	 also	 have	 a	 positive	 or	 negative
effect	 on	work	 and	 business	 relationships.	Those	with	 an	 afflicted	Moon	here
may	change	 jobs	often,	and	employers	with	 this	Moon	may	 find	 it	difficult	 to
retain	 reliable	 or	 permanent	 employees.	Diet	 is	 of	major	 importance	 to	 health
and	well-being,	and	these	individuals	can	be	skilled	at	food	preparation.

The	Moon	in	the	7th	House



The	Moon	in	the	7th	House
With	 the	Moon	 in	 the	 7th	House,	 there	 is	 a	 strong	 likelihood	of	marrying	 for
emotional	and	domestic	security	rather	than	for	purely	romantic	concerns.	These
individuals	 seek	 emotional	 fulfillment	 through	 their	 relationships	 and	 are
therefore	heavily	 influenced	by	them.	Frequently,	 they	seek	a	mother	or	father
figure	in	their	partner.

The	Moon	in	the	8th	House
The	Moon	in	this	position	often	indicates	a	concern	with	inheritance,	insurance,
and	property	taxes,	and	these	matters	may	also	involve	an	important	woman	in
the	 individual's	 life.	 Financial	 affairs	 are	 greatly	 affected	 through	marriage	 or
partnerships.	 These	 individuals	 may	 also	 have	 a	 highly	 developed	 psychic
sensitivity	and	an	awareness	of	 invisible	 forces	 that	may	 lead	 to	an	 interest	 in
the	 occult.	 The	 8th	 House	 is	 ruled	 by	 Pluto	 and	 related	 to	 the	 sign	 Scorpio,
which	rules	the	sex	organs.	Scorpio	and	the	8th	House	are	also	ruled	by	Mars,
the	planet	of	desire.	If	the	Moon	is	afflicted	here,	emotional	desires	can	lead	to
an	overemphasis	on	sex	and	sensuality.

The	Moon	in	the	9th	House
Those	 with	 the	Moon	 in	 the	 9th	 House	 will	 place	 great	 value	 on	 the	 social,
religious,	and	ethical	values	instilled	in	them	from	early	childhood.	If	the	Moon
is	afflicted,	 a	narrow	and	dogmatic	 social	 and	 religious	bias	can	be	 the	 result,
with	 the	 individual's	 convictions	 based	 more	 on	 emotion	 than	 reason.	 When
positive,	 this	 is	 the	 house	 of	 the	 higher	 mind,	 of	 reason	 and	 understanding.
These	 people	will	 travel	 often	 and	 are	 inclined	 to	 take	 up	 residence	 far	 from
their	place	of	birth.

The	Moon	in	the	10th	House
The	need	to	achieve	prominence	and	recognition	is	the	driving	factor	for	those
born	 with	 the	Moon	 in	 this	 position.	 Often	 they	 come	 from	 families	 of	 high
social	standing	and	inherited	ambition.	The	influence	of	the	mother	is	especially
dominant,	 and	 their	 careers	 tend	 to	 be	 assisted	 or	 enhanced	 by	 women.	 If
positively	 aspected,	 it	 is	 a	 particularly	 good	 position	 for	 those	 with	 political
ambitions.

The	Moon	in	the	11th	House
The	 Moon	 in	 this	 house	 provides	 a	 strong	 desire	 for	 friendship	 and	 group
acceptance	 and	 activities.	 Many	 friendships	 are	 made	 through	 family



associations,	and	there	will	also	be	many	friendships	of	a	purely	platonic	nature
with	 members	 of	 the	 opposite	 sex.	 Emotional	 states	 are	 influenced	 by	 the
opinions	and	reactions	of	others,	and	companionship	 is	essential	 for	emotional
well-being.

The	Moon	in	the	12th	House
With	the	Moon	in	the	12th	House,	moods	and	emotions	are	strongly	affected	by
the	unconscious	and	the	memories	of	past	experiences.	These	individuals	can	be
highly	psychic	and	intuitive.	If	the	Moon	is	afflicted	here,	they	may	experience
extreme	 emotional	 sensitivity,	 neurotic	 tendencies,	 shyness,	 and	 loneliness.	 If
the	Moon	 rules	 the	 5th,	 7th,	 or	 8th	Houses	 (i.e.,	 if	 Cancer	 is	 found	 on	 these
house	 cusps),	 or	 strongly	 aspects	 Venus	 or	 the	 ruler	 of	 the	 5th	 House,	 these
individuals	may	find	themselves	involved	in	clandestine	love	affairs.

Aspects	of	the	Moon
The	 Moon	 represents	 the	 passive	 feminine	 principle,	 that	 aspect	 of
consciousness	which	is	receptive	to	outside	influences.	It	is	a	strong	indicator	of
how	we	 react	 to	 other	 people.	Aspects	 of	 the	Moon	 are	 all	 reflections	 of	 the
unconscious	 mind,	 behavior	 patterns	 formed	 by	 the	 past,	 and	 automatic
reactions.	 The	Moon	 is	 connected	 to	memory,	 especially	 regarding	 emotional
experiences,	and	the	Moon's	aspects	are	a	strong	indicator	of	our	ability	to	store
information.	 In	a	man's	horoscope,	 lunar	aspects	 indicate	 the	way	he	 reacts	 to
women.	In	a	woman's	horoscope,	 the	Moon	represents	 the	way	basic	feminine
and	maternal	qualities	 are	 expressed,	 including	 female	physical	 and	emotional
health	(the	Moon	being	related	to	the	female	menstrual	cycle).	In	both	male	and
female	horoscopes,	the	Moon	represents	the	influence	of	the	mother.

Moon	Conjunctions
Moon	conjunctions	point	to	intense	feelings	and	emotions	regarding	the	affairs
ruled	 by	 the	 planet	 or	 planets	 involved	 and	 the	 signs	 and	houses	 they	 occupy
and	 rule.	Domestic	 life,	parents,	 and	even	 food	will	be	 strongly	 influenced	by
the	affairs	governed	by	these	planets.	In	these	areas,	the	individual	will	be	prone
to	acting	out	of	unconscious	impulse	and	early	childhood	conditioning.	Women
will	 exert	 a	 strong	 influence	 on	 the	 individual	 in	 the	 affairs	 ruled	 by	 the
conjunction.

Moon	Sextiles
Moon	sextiles	indicate	an	opportunity	for	growth	and	development	in	the	affairs



ruled	by	the	planet	or	planets	forming	the	sextile	and	the	signs	and	houses	the
Moon	and	the	planet(s)	occupy	and	rule.	Often,	women	play	a	significant	role	in
furthering	 the	 individual's	 progress.	 Moon	 sextiles	 mean	 good	 emotional
communication	 and	 friendship	 with	 women	 in	 general	 and	 especially	 the
mother.

Moon	Squares
Squares	of	the	Moon	point	to	emotional	blockages	and	frustrations	that	are	the
product	 of	 early	 childhood	 and	 heredity.	 Often	 there	 is	 an	 unconscious
resentment	of	women	resulting	from	conflicts	with	the	mother,	along	with	racial
and	 social	 prejudices,	 all	 of	which	 greatly	 hinder	 the	 individual's	 capacity	 for
emotional	freedom	and	happiness.

Moon	Trines
Trines	of	 the	Moon	 indicate	unconscious	 conditioning	and	behavioral	patterns
that	work	to	the	benefit	of	the	individual's	social	progress,	especially	regarding
women.	These	benefits	come	through	the	affairs	ruled	by	the	planet	or	planets
that	form	the	trine	and	the	houses	and	signs	occupied	and	ruled	by	the	Moon	and
the	 planet(s)	 involved.	 These	 trines	 generally	 indicate	 a	 happy	 childhood	 and
harmonious	family	life.

Moon	Oppositions
Oppositions	 of	 the	 Moon	 indicate	 emotional	 problems	 in	 relationships.	 The
individual	may	 tend	 to	 project	 his	 or	 her	 own	 emotional	 problems	 and	 faults
onto	others.	Objectivity	and	emotional	detachment	must	be	exercised	regarding
the	affairs	 ruled	by	 the	planet	or	planets	 forming	 the	opposition	and	 the	 signs
and	houses	occupied	and	ruled	by	the	planet(s).



CHAPTER	7
Mercury

Mercury	 is	 the	 ruler	 of	 our	 thought	 processes	 and	 communication.	 As
mentioned	earlier,	 it	 is	never	more	 than	28	degrees	 from	the	Sun.	 It	expresses
itself	most	effectively,	however,	when	it	is	at	least	3	degrees	from	the	Sun.

Mercury	in	the	Signs
Mercury's	 sign	 position	 reveals	 the	 psychological	 patterns	 and	 perceptions
behind	our	ability	to	make	judgments	and	decisions	and	convey	ideas	to	others,
as	well	as	what	tends	to	occupy	our	thoughts.

Mercury	in	Aries
These	 individuals	 are	 able	 to	 think	 originally,	 quickly,	 and	 decisively	 and	 are
inclined	 to	 show	 a	 fondness	 for	 competitive	 argument	 and	 debate.	 They	 can,
however,	be	intellectually	egotistical	and	stubborn,	impulsive	in	their	judgments
and	 decisions,	 and	 highly	 personal	 in	 their	 point	 of	 view.	 They	 are	 impatient
with	opposition	and	delay	and	can	become	quicktempered	or	irritable.

Mercury	in	Taurus
These	 individuals	 possess	 much	 in	 the	 way	 of	 simple	 common	 sense,	 their
thought	 processes	 concentrated	 on	 that	 which	 is	 of	 practical	 and	 material
concern.	They	have	great	powers	of	concentration,	enabling	them	to	shut	out	or
ignore	anything	that	may	distract	them	from	the	object	of	their	focus.	They	have
an	almost	uncanny	ability	to	simply	not	perceive	whatever	they	don't	want	to	be
bothered	with,	which	can	make	them	blind	to	matters	they	should	recognize	for
their	own	good.	Thus	they	can	be	shortsighted	and	stubborn.	If	Mercury	is	well
aspected,	 these	 individuals	 can	 have	 considerable	 mental	 abilities	 in	 the	 arts,
mathematics,	 and	 physical	 science,	 owing	 to	 the	 Taurian-Venusian	 sense	 of
structure	 and	 form	 interpreted	 through	 Mercury's	 mental	 understanding.	 If
Mercury	is	afflicted	here,	the	individual	may	have	to	struggle	with	materialism,
avarice,	and	intellectual	obstinacy.

Mercury	in	Gemini
Here,	 Mercury	 is	 in	 the	 sign	 of	 its	 rulership.	 When	 well	 aspected,	 pure	 and
logical	 reason	 reaches	 its	 highest	 expression.	 Mercury	 in	 Gemini	 is	 lucid,



versatile,	 mentally	 agile	 and	 perceptive,	 concerned	 with	 objective	 facts	 and
unbiased	 truth.	 These	 individuals	 will	 be	 knowledgeable	 in	 a	wide	 variety	 of
subjects	 and	will	 be	 distinguished	 by	 their	 ability	 to	 communicate	 eloquently
and	precisely	in	both	speech	and	writing.	They	have	immense	curiosity	and	are
highly	 sensitive	 to	 outside	 stimuli,	 registering	 everything	 around	 them	 with
vivid	intensity.	Their	nerves	can	become	frayed	or	overloaded	by	the	abundance
of	information	they	are	receiving,	which	can	further	result	in	confusion,	fatigue,
and	irritability.
If	 Mercury	 is	 afflicted,	 these	 individuals	 can	 be	 prone	 to	 incessant	 trivial

chatter	and	an	inability	to	focus.

Mercury	in	Cancer
Mercury	in	Cancer	can	indicate	a	mind	that	is	easily	influenced	by	deep-rooted
emotions	and	unconscious	desires,	sometimes	resulting	in	bias,	prejudice,	and	a
lack	of	objectivity.	 If	Mercury	 is	afflicted	here,	 the	 individual	can	be	prone	 to
dishonesty	without	even	realizing	it.	On	the	other	hand,	an	unafflicted	Mercury
in	Cancer	 can	 result	 in	 a	very	good	memory	owing	 to	 the	 emotional	 intensity
associated	with	 its	 thoughts	 and	an	ability	 to	 absorb	 information	 subliminally,
almost	as	though	through	osmosis.	Much	of	the	mental	processes	here	actually
occur	 more	 on	 the	 unconscious	 level,	 as	 Cancer	 brings	 the	 lunar	 element	 to
Mercury.	These	individuals	can	be	highly	sensitive	and	very	susceptible	to	the
opinions	and	attitudes	of	those	around	them.	Much	of	their	thinking	is	centered
on	home	and	family.

Mercury	in	Leo
A	strong	will	and	fixed	purpose	are	 indicated	here,	along	with	self-confidence
and	the	ability	to	focus	and	concentrate.	There	can,	however,	be	a	tendency	to
overlook	anything	that	does	not	relate	immediately	to	the	matter	at	hand	and	to
deal	with	 things	 in	general	 terms	while	 ignoring	 important	details.	Those	with
Mercury	in	Leo	have	a	strong	desire	to	be	regarded	as	experts	or	authorities	in
their	 chosen	 fields,	 and	 they	 can	 be	 dramatic	 and	 forceful	 in	 their	 self-
expression.	Naturally,	if	taken	to	the	extreme,	this	can	result	in	excessive	pride
and	 arrogance.	 Leo	 being	 a	 fixed	 sign,	 opinions	 are	 formed	 slowly	 and,	 once
formed,	are	difficult	to	change.
These	individuals	are	generally	extremely	positive	when	it	comes	to	tackling

and	solving	problems	and	often	possess	considerable	executive	abilities.	They
can	make	gifted	teachers,	especially	when	working	with	children.

Mercury	in	Virgo



Mercury	in	Virgo
Here	 we	 will	 find	 great	 analytical	 powers	 and	 practical	 reasoning,	 with	 a
concern	for	precision	and	detail	that	can	appear	as	neurotic	or	trivial	to	others.
Order	 and	 efficiency,	 especially	 in	work,	 is	 of	major	 concern	 for	Mercury	 in
Virgo.	 Professional	 and	 financial	 success	 is	 achieved	 by	 acquiring	 a	 good
education	 and	 specialist	 skills.	 Interest	 in	 and	 knowledge	 of	 language	 and
grammar	 can	 make	 these	 people	 eloquent	 and	 precise	 in	 speech	 and	 writing.
They	 will	 be	 especially	 concerned	 with	 correct	 word	 use,	 spelling,	 grammar,
and	 punctuation.	Mercury	 in	Virgo	 is	 not	 concerned	with	 ideas	 for	 their	 own
sake	 (like	 Mercury	 in	 Gemini),	 but	 with	 their	 practical	 application.	 These
individuals	 are	 work-oriented	 and	 can	 tend	 to	 be	 shy	 and	 retiring,	 with	 little
interest	in	idle	conversation.	When	badly	aspected,	Mercury	in	Virgo's	concern
for	 details	 can	 assume	 undue	 importance	 and	 blind	 these	 individuals	 to	 the
overall	 matter	 at	 hand.	 Medicine,	 mathematics,	 diet,	 hygiene,	 and	 any	 other
work	requiring	precision	and	detail	will	be	of	interest.

Mercury	in	Libra
Here,	 the	primary	mental	concern	 is	with	human	relationships	and	psychology
based	 on	 an	 innate	 and	 keen	 interest	 in	 the	 thought	 and	 behavior	 patterns	 of
others.	 These	 individuals	 tend	 to	 naturally	 excel	 in	 such	 fields	 as	 sociology,
psychology,	public	relations,	law,	and	even	astrology.	Good	communication	and
harmonious	 relationships	 are	 essential	 to	 them,	 and	 they	 work	 best	 when	 in
partnership	with	others.	They	are	easy	to	communicate	with	and	have	a	genuine
concern	for	and	interest	in	the	opinions	of	other	people.	They	are	imbued	with	a
strong	sense	of	justice	and	honesty	and	will	consider	all	sides	of	an	issue	before
making	 a	decision.	When	Mercury	here	 is	 afflicted,	 this	 careful	weighing	 and
consideration	can	lead	to	indecisiveness.	When	these	people	do	make	decisions,
however,	they	are	generally	thoughtful	and	just.
Honesty,	good	manners,	and	refinement	of	thought	and	gesture	are	of	utmost

importance	 to	 them.	 They	 find	 rough	 or	 uncouth	 speech	 and	 behavior	 and
dishonesty	and	unfairness	extremely	distasteful	and	will	avoid	them	whenever
possible.	 They	 are	 highly	 sensitive	 to	 the	 odors,	 personal	 appearance,	 and
mannerisms	of	others.	Inappropriate	dress	and	coarse	language	can	be	regarded
by	 them	 as	 personal	 and	 social	 affronts.	 Although	 gentle	 and	 considerate	 in
their	dealings	with	others,	Mercury	in	Libra	people	can	be	strict	and	unyielding
when	it	comes	to	their	own	principles.	When	negative	or	superficial,	however,
they	can	appear	to	lack	conviction	as	a	result	of	their	tendency	to	simply	agree
with	others	in	order	to	gain	approval	or	avoid	conflict.

Mercury	in	Scorpio



Mercury	in	Scorpio
This	is	a	highly	intuitive	mind	capable	of	profound	insight	and	critical	analysis
of	human	motivations.	Secretive	and	resourceful,	with	an	acute	understanding	of
“what	lies	beneath,”	these	individuals	make	good	detectives,	 investigators,	and
researchers.	 They	 are	 capable	 of	 surmounting	 obstacles	 and	 solving	 problems
that	 others	 find	 impossible	 to	 even	 broach.	 They	 possess	 an	 innate	 curiosity
about	 the	 inner	 workings	 of	 things	 and	 the	 hidden	 mysteries	 of	 life.	 When
negative,	 they	can	be	furtive,	scheming,	mistrustful	of	others,	and	preoccupied
with	sex.

Mercury	in	Sagittarius
These	 individuals	 will	 be	 forthright	 in	 their	 speech	 and	 demand	 absolute
intellectual	freedom,	although	their	ideas	rarely	depart	from	traditional	concepts
or	 accepted	 codes	 of	 social	 behavior.	 Here	 the	major	mental	 concern	 is	 with
social	or	collective	codes	of	thought,	whether	religious,	legal,	or	philosophical.
As	 they	 are	 concerned	 with	 ideas	 rather	 than	 facts,	 these	 people	 are	 often
insightful	in	their	understanding	of	social	forces	and	the	subsequent	unfolding	of
events.	This	can	at	times	make	them	seem	almost	prophetic.	They	have	a	strong
desire	 to	 be	 seen	 as	 paragons	 of	 truth	 and	 to	 be	 respected	 within	 their
communities,	an	urge	that	can	lead	to	moral	hypocrisy	and	pedantry	if	Mercury
is	afflicted	and	conformity	carried	too	far.

Mercury	in	Capricorn
Here	is	a	mind	that	is	ambitious,	shrewd,	practical,	organized,	and	determined	to
achieve	 success	 in	 the	 material	 world.	 These	 individuals	 are	 methodical	 in
thought	 and	 action,	 their	 reasoning	 thorough	 and	 cautious,	 although	 not
particularly	original.	They	are	patient	and	disciplined,	often	gifted	in	math,	and
have	 good	management	 abilities.	 They	 tend	 to	 be	 politically	 conservative	 and
defenders	of	the	established	social	order,	as	they	have	a	deep-rooted	respect	for
that	which	has	stood	the	test	of	time.	Like	Virgo,	another	earth	sign,	Mercury	in
Capricorn	holds	ideas	as	important	only	in	regard	to	their	practical	application.
They	are	realistic	rather	than	idealistic.	If	Mercury	is	afflicted	in	this	sign,	there
is	a	danger	of	avarice	and	an	inclination	to	use	people	unscrupulously	to	attain
material	goals.	Seriousness	and	discipline	can	also	result	in	sternness	and	a	very
unappealing	lack	of	humor.

Mercury	in	Aquarius



Here	the	mind	is	totally	open	to	new	experiences.	The	world	is	viewed	from	the
point	 of	 view	 of	 objective	 and	 impersonal	 truth.	 There	 is	 little	 tolerance	 or
regard	 for	 tradition	or	 social	mores	 if	 they	conflict	with	or	deny	 the	objective
facts	and	the	evidence	of	firsthand	experience.	Owing	to	their	objectivity,	very
little	 surprises	 these	 people,	 and	 they	 readily	 accept	 and	 acknowledge	 what
others	may	find	incomprehensible	or	even	world	shattering.	They	are	capable	of
receiving	 ideas	 from	 the	 archetypal	 realm	 of	 the	 collective	 and	 universal
consciousness	 and	 are	 often	 telepathic.	 They	 also	 tend	 to	 make	 excellent
scientists.	Their	ability	to	perceive	things	in	broad	terms	gives	them	a	decidedly
humanitarian	 outlook.	 They	 like	 to	work	 in	 conjunction	with	 others	 and	 seek
mental	stimulation	through	friendship.

Mercury	in	Pisces
Mercury	in	Pisces	endows	a	vivid	imagination	along	with	a	photographic	ability
to	 visualize	 thoughts	 and	 memories.	 These	 individuals	 tend	 to	 be	 highly
intuitive	 and	 telepathic.	 They	 are,	 as	 a	 result,	 easily	 influenced	 by	 subliminal
suggestion	as	 they	unconsciously	 tune	 in	 to	 the	 thoughts	and	 feelings	of	 those
around	them.	Conclusions	are	reached	not	through	rational	thought	but	through
impressions	 and	 perceptions	 that	 rise	 up	 from	 the	 layers	 of	 the	 unconscious.
Like	Mercury	in	Cancer,	the	mind	can	become	biased	by	unconscious	emotional
patterns	based	on	past	experiences.	If	Mercury	is	afflicted,	there	is	the	danger	of
the	 mind	 being	 trapped	 in	 memory	 to	 the	 point	 that	 perception	 is	 distorted,
resulting	in	neurosis.	On	the	other	hand,	this	extreme	sensitivity	and	insight	can
result	in	great	literary,	artistic,	and	visionary	abilities.
These	 people	 are	 capable	 of	 great	 sympathy	 for	 and	 empathy	with	 others.

Pisces	is	a	mutable	sign,	and	this	can	cause	emotional	fluctuations,	vacillation
when	 it	 comes	 to	 decision	 making,	 and	 a	 tendency	 to	 daydream.	 Excessive
secrecy	and	a	need	for	privacy	can	lead	to	shyness.	If	Mercury	is	afflicted,	the
imagination	 can	 become	 morbid,	 and	 excessive	 sensitivity	 can	 bring	 on	 a
persecution	 complex,	 imagining	 slights	 and	 personal	 criticisms	 where	 none
exist.

Mercury	in	the	Houses
Mercury	 in	 the	 houses	 tells	 us	 about	 the	 practical	 affairs	 of	 daily	 life	 that
involve	 our	 thinking	 and	 communication.	 It	 also	 shows	what	 areas	 of	 activity
will	be	influenced	or	affected	by	these	thoughts	and	communications.

Mercury	in	the	1st	House



Mercury	 in	 the	1st	House	 indicates	a	mind	 that	 is	curious	and	 inquiring.	Very
little	 escapes	 these	 individuals'	 attention.	Willpower	 and	mental	 initiative	 are
hallmarks	 of	 Mercury	 in	 this	 position,	 making	 these	 people	 intellectually
competitive.	The	1st	House	indicates	self-expression	through	action.	Those	with
Mercury	in	the	1st	House	make	good	writers,	journalists,	scientists,	researchers,
and	scholars	because	of	their	intelligence	and	innate	ability	for	self-expression.
They	 are	 talkative	 and	 inclined	 to	write	 a	 lot	 owing	 to	 their	 intense	 desire	 to
express	themselves	verbally.

Mercury	in	the	2nd	House
Here,	the	individual's	primary	preoccupations	will	be	with	business,	money,	and
that	which	produces	practical	and	concrete	results.	Education	is	pursued	in	the
name	of	earning	power,	and	 these	 individuals	can	be	original	and	 inventive	 in
formulating	 ways	 of	 making	 money.	 Economists,	 entrepreneurs,	 business
advisors,	 and	 corporate	 planners	 often	 have	Mercury	 in	 the	 2nd	House.	Keen
business	 acumen	 can	 also	 be	 manifested	 in	 media-related	 businesses	 such	 as
broadcasting,	publishing,	and	telecommunications.

Mercury	in	the	3rd	House
The	 3rd	 House	 corresponds	 to	 Gemini,	 which	 Mercury	 rules,	 so	 this	 strong
position	 endows	 the	 individual	 with	 a	 superior	 intellect	 and	 abilities	 in
communication	 in	 any	 variety	 of	 forms,	 with	 much	 mental	 agility	 and
originality.	If	Mercury	is	afflicted	here	by	challenging	aspects,	troubles	can	arise
from	indiscreet	 talk	or	 false	or	erroneous	 information;	 the	 individual	may	also
experience	problems	with	contracts	and	agreements.	Many	short	trips	and	much
communication	with	siblings,	relatives,	and	neighbors	are	also	characteristic	of
Mercury	in	the	3rd	House.

Mercury	in	the	4th	House
With	Mercury	in	the	4th	House,	the	home	is	more	than	likely	to	be	the	center	of
educational	and	intellectual	activity,	as	well	as	the	place	of	work.	The	home	will
probably	have	a	large	library,	and	the	individual	may	spend	much	time	with	his
or	her	family	in	educational	pursuits.	Those	with	Mercury	in	the	4th	House	will
be	 concerned	with	 investigating	 their	 genealogy	 and	often	have	well-educated
parents.	They	will	probably	be	interested	in	real	estate,	agriculture,	and	the	earth
sciences.	Also,	people	who	live	in	trailers	or	have	a	nomadic	lifestyle	are	likely
to	have	Mercury	in	the	4th	House.	If	Mercury	is	afflicted,	 intellectual	disputes
and	disagreements	with	family	members	may	occur.



Mercury	in	the	5th	House
This	 is	 the	 position	 of	 writers	 in	 general	 and	 indicates	 a	 keen	 interest	 in
intellectual	and	creative	endeavors.	Here	 the	 individual	 is	 strongly	attracted	 to
all	 forms	of	art	 that	convey	information.	These	 individuals	express	 themselves
forcefully	 and	 dramatically	 and	 desire	 to	 be	 admired	 for	 their	 artistic	 or
intellectual	 achievements.	They	 take	great	 pride	 in	 their	 children	 and	are	very
concerned	with	 their	 education.	Often	 they	 are	 romantically	 attracted	 to	 those
they	 find	 intellectually	 exciting	 and	 stimulating.	 If	Mercury	 is	 afflicted,	 there
can	be	a	tendency	toward	intellectual	conceit,	unwise	speculations,	and	a	critical
and	analytical	approach	to	romance,	with	no	partner	being	mentally	up	to	par.

Mercury	in	the	6th	House
The	 6th	 House	 corresponds	 to	 Virgo,	 which	 Mercury	 rules.	 Mercury	 in	 this
position	 indicates	 a	 concern	 with	 duty,	 work,	 and	 personal	 hygiene	 and
appearance.	 There	 is	 a	 tendency	 here	 toward	 overwork	 and	 perfectionism.
Methodical	 and	 efficient,	 these	 individuals	 keep	 themselves	 up	with	 the	 latest
developments	in	their	fields	of	endeavor	and	are	more	than	likely	specialists	in
their	 work.	 It	 is	 an	 ideal	 position	 for	 those	 involved	 in	medicine,	 science,	 or
engineering.	 They	 are	 particularly	 sensitive	 to	 any	 disorder	 or	 chaos	 in	 their
environment.	 If	Mercury	 is	 afflicted,	 these	 individuals	 can	 be	 highly	 critical,
obsessively	preoccupied	with	insignificant	details,	or	overly	concerned	about	ill
health.

Mercury	in	the	7th	House
The	 major	 concern	 here	 is	 with	 communication	 and	 intellectual	 cooperation
with	 others,	with	 a	 strong	 preference	 for	working	within	 a	 partnership.	 These
individuals	are	skilled	at	public	communication	and	are	often	successful	in	law,
public	relations,	and	sales,	as	well	as	having	a	strong	aptitude	for	psychology,
arbitration,	 mediation,	 and	 counseling.	 They	 are	 very	 concerned	 with	 what
others	think	and	will	seek	intellectual	companionship	with	both	their	friends	and
romantic	 partners.	 Mercury	 in	 the	 7th	 House	 can	 indicate	 marriage	 with	 an
employee,	 coworker,	 or	 even	 a	 relative.	 If	Mercury	 is	 afflicted,	 there	 can	 be
problems	 in	 communicating	 with	 others,	 misunderstandings	 in	 marriage	 and
partnerships,	and	broken	agreements;	all	contracts	must	be	carefully	considered.
With	an	afflicted	7th-House	Mercury,	 the	 individual's	partner	may	be	unstable
or	deceptive.

Mercury	in	the	8th	House



Here	we	find	a	keen	interest	in	both	science	and	the	occult.	The	8th	House	is	the
house	 of	 death,	 and	 these	 interests	 may	 well	 extend	 into	 spiritualism	 and
communication	with	the	dead.	The	best	mediums	probably	have	Mercury	in	the
8th	 House.	 Those	 with	 Mercury	 in	 this	 position	 tend	 to	 be	 highly	 secretive,
especially	about	personal	information.	They	thrive	on	mystery	and	intrigue	and
are	 particularly	 gifted	 in	 uncovering	 secrets	 and	 exposing	 the	 hidden
motivations	of	others.	Often	it	seems	that	this	information	simply	comes	to	them
by	chance	or	luck.	They	do	not	easily	forget	the	slights	and	wrongful	actions	of
others.	 If	 Mercury	 is	 afflicted,	 these	 people	 can	 hold	 grudges	 and	 engage	 in
secret	plots	for	revenge.

Mercury	in	the	9th	House
Mercury	 in	 the	9th	House	means	 there	will	be	a	strong	 interest	 in	philosophy,
law,	 and	 higher	 education,	 all	 aimed	 at	 acquiring	 an	 understanding	 of	 the
fundamental	 precepts	 that	 govern	 the	 prevailing	 social	 codes	 and	 mores.
Decisions	 are	 based	 on	 ethical	 and	 moral	 considerations	 as	 well	 as	 practical
ones.	As	with	Mercury	 in	 Sagittarius,	 this	 position	 indicates	 a	 strong	 concern
with	prevailing	attitudes	as	well	as	facts.	These	people	will	also	love	travel	and
display	a	curiosity	about	foreign	countries	and	cultures.	If	Mercury	is	afflicted
here,	 the	 individual	 may	 be	 given	 to	 intellectual	 snobbery	 and	 dogmatic	 and
sectarian	attitudes	and	beliefs.	When	favorably	aspected	here,	Mercury	can	give
prophetic	insight	into	the	nature	of	things	to	come.

Mercury	in	the	10th	House
Here,	 education	 will	 be	 pursued	 in	 the	 name	 of	 attaining	 a	 prestigious	 and
lucrative	 career.	These	 ambitious	 individuals	 are	 highly	organized	 and	 able	 to
plan	for	the	future.	They	are	politically	astute,	able	to	communicate	effectively
with	 the	 public,	 and	 have	 considerable	 executive	 ability.	 It	 is	 the	 position	 of
distinguished	 and	 brilliant	 politicians.	 It	 is	 also	 a	 good	 position	 for	 those
engaged	 in	 communications	 media,	 publishing,	 writing,	 and	 teaching.	 If
Mercury	is	afflicted,	ambition	can	take	precedence	over	principles.

Mercury	in	the	11th	House
This	position	of	Mercury	indicates	a	love	of	truth,	impartiality,	and	the	ability	to
judge	objectively.	These	people	are	often	quite	original	and	innovative	in	their
thinking	and	involved	in	scientific	investigation	and	humanitarian	causes.	Their
friends	will	have	similar	concerns.	They	are	impersonal	but	friendly,	willing	to
exchange	 ideas	 with	 anyone	 regardless	 of	 their	 background.	 Open	 to	 all	 of



humanity,	 they	 are	 compassionate	 and	 insightful	 and	 possess	 an	 innate
understanding	 of	 the	 broader	 social	 issues.	 If	Mercury	 is	 afflicted,	 their	 ideas
can	be	eccentric	 and	 impractical,	 and	 the	ability	 to	 communicate	 and	 function
with	groups	can	be	hampered.

Mercury	in	the	12th	House
Here,	 thinking	 is	 strongly	 influenced	 by	 unconscious	 memories	 and	 habits
rooted	 in	 past	 experiences.	 Conclusions	 and	 decisions	 are	 often	 based	 on
feelings	 and	 impressions	 arising	 through	 the	 layers	 of	 the	 subconscious	 rather
than	on	logic.	This	can	have	both	positive	and	negative	results.	Individuals	with
Mercury	in	the	12th	House	are	likely	to	be	highly	secretive	about	their	thoughts
and	 feelings	 and	 prone	 to	 shyness.	 However,	 their	 imaginations	 are	 highly
active,	 vivid,	 and	 valuable,	 with	 original	 ideas	 and	 knowledge	 often	 gleaned
through	intuitive	and	psychic	channels.	If	Mercury	is	afflicted,	the	result	can	be
neurosis,	 mental	 illness,	 and	 a	 fixation	 on	 the	 past.	 An	 afflicted	 12th-House
Mercury	 can	 also	 indicate	mental	 blocks	 and	 learning	 difficulties,	 particularly
during	childhood.

Aspects	of	Mercury
Along	with	 the	 sign	 it	 is	 in,	 house	 position,	 and	 the	 houses	 it	 rules	 (those	 in
which	Virgo	 and	Gemini	 are	 found),	 aspects	 of	Mercury	 indicate	 the	way	we
think	and	 the	kind	of	mind	we	possess.	Mercury	 is	neutral	 in	 terms	of	mental
communication,	perception,	memory,	and	reasoning.	It	is	colored	by	the	planets
that	most	closely	aspect	it,	along	with	the	sign	and	house	it	is	in.

Mercury	Conjunctions
Conjunctions	 of	 Mercury	 indicate	 strong	 mental	 abilities	 in	 reasoning	 and
communication	 in	 the	 areas	 ruled	 by	 the	 planet	 or	 planets	 forming	 the
conjunction,	 the	 house	 and	 sign	 the	 conjunction	occupies,	 and	 the	 houses	 and
signs	ruled	by	Mercury	and	the	conjuncting	planet(s).

Mercury	Sextiles
Mercury	 sextiles	 indicate	 opportunities	 for	 mental	 growth	 and	 development,
along	with	strong	reasoning	abilities,	in	those	areas	influenced	by	the	planet(s)
forming	 the	 sextile	 and	 the	 signs	 and	 houses	 that	 Mercury	 and	 the	 planet(s)
occupy	 and	 rule.	 The	 individual	 will	 be	 especially	 adept	 at	 writing,
communicating,	 forming	 new	 friendships,	 and	 expressing	 him-or	 herself
through	group	associations.



Squares
Squares	of	Mercury	 indicate	difficulties	 and	mental	 blockages	 in	 learning	 and
communicating	in	those	areas	ruled	by	the	planet	or	planets	that	form	the	square
and	the	signs	and	houses	they	occupy	and	rule.	Although	these	individuals	may
be	 intelligent,	 they	 are	 prone	 to	 being	 opinionated,	 stubborn,	 one-sided,	 and
intellectually	arrogant	in	their	point	of	view.

Mercury	Trines
Mercury	 trines	 indicate	 a	mind	 that	 is	 inspired,	 agile,	 and	 creative,	with	 great
powers	of	 comprehension	and	 the	 ability	 to	 communicate	quickly	 and	clearly.
Success	is	achieved	in	the	areas	ruled	by	the	planet	or	planets	forming	the	trine
and	the	signs	and	houses	the	planets	occupy	and	rule.

Mercury	Oppositions
Mercury	 oppositions	 point	 to	 difficulties	 in	 relationships	 as	 a	 result	 of
conflicting	opinions	and	attitudes	and	an	inability	to	communicate,	especially	in
those	areas	ruled	by	the	planet	or	planets	opposing	Mercury	and	the	signs	and
houses	occupied	and	ruled	by	Mercury	and	the	planet(s).



CHAPTER	8
Venus

Venus,	 the	planet	of	 love	and	beauty,	provides	 insight	 into	what	we	value	 in
people	 and	 our	 attitudes	 about	 money,	 personal	 possessions,	 society,	 and
aesthetics.

Venus	in	the	Signs
Venus's	 position	 in	 the	 signs	 shows	 how	 we	 express	 our	 love	 in	 intimate
relationships,	as	well	as	our	nature	in	other	social	partnerships,	and	the	manner
in	which	we	choose	to	live.

Venus	in	Aries
Those	with	Venus	in	Aries	are	aggressive	in	their	emotional	self-expression	and
confidently	 pursue	 the	 objects	 of	 their	 desire.	 They	 can	 be	 competitive	 in
seeking	 the	attention	and	affections	of	others.	Mars,	 the	 ruler	of	Aries,	makes
them	passionate	in	love	and	romance	and	gives	energy	to	the	tender	affections
of	Venus.	However,	Venus	 in	Aries	 can	 also	make	 their	 affections	 impulsive
and	 unstable,	 and	 these	 people	 can	 be	 self-centered	 and	 demanding.	 When
Venus	 is	 afflicted,	 they	 can	be	 coarse,	 ill-mannered,	 and	 temperamental	when
the	attention	they	demand	is	not	forthcoming.

Venus	in	Taurus
Constant	 and	 lasting	 affections	 are	 characteristic	 of	Venus	 in	Taurus.	Loyalty
and	steadfastness,	 though,	may	be	coupled	with	possessiveness	and	jealousy	if
emotional	security	is	 in	any	way	threatened.	These	individuals	are	sensual	and
tactile.	 They	 enjoy	 physical	 contact	with	 their	 loved	 ones	 as	well	 as	 comfort,
luxury,	 good	 food,	 and	 opulent	 surroundings;	 because	 of	 the	 latter,	 money	 is
important	 to	 them.	They	place	a	high	value	on	personal	beauty	and	 take	great
efforts	to	look	as	attractive	as	possible.	They	have	an	innate	sense	of	the	value
of	material	 things	and	a	keen	eye	 for	objects	of	beauty	and	value.	They	make
great	 antique	 dealers	 and	 art	 collectors.	 Also,	 with	 their	 tactile	 sense,	 many
sculptors	and	painters	have	Venus	in	this	sign.	These	individuals	have	a	kinship
with	the	earth	and	a	love	of	nature,	especially	of	plants	and	trees.	Taurus	rules
the	 throat	 and	 the	 larynx,	 and	 coupled	with	 the	beauty	 and	grace	of	Venus,	 it
often	bestows	these	individuals	with	resonant,	melodious	voices.

Venus	in	Gemini



Venus	in	Gemini
Venus	 in	Gemini	 confers	 a	 strong	 desire	 for	 varied	 experience	 and	 an	 innate
curiosity	about	people.	As	a	result,	these	people	will	naturally	seek	variety	both
in	 their	 love	 and	 social	 lives.	 They	 are	 not	 naturally	 predisposed	 to	 settling
down	 in	 a	 steady	 or	 permanent	 relationship,	 although	 they	 are	 capable	 of
sustained	devotion,	which	may	seem	like	a	contradiction,	but	contradiction	is	a
Gemini	 characteristic.	 Given	 their	 wit	 and	 conversational	 abilities,	 they	 are
attracted	 to	agile	minds	and	strong	 intellects.	As	with	 the	other	air	 signs,	 they
have	 pleasant	 and	 charming	manners	 and	 a	 strong	 dislike	 of	 coarse	 or	 crude
behavior.	If	Venus	is	afflicted,	these	people	may	seem	inconsistent	and	fickle	in
romance,	and	their	values	concerning	love	and	marriage	can	be	capricious	and
superficial.

Venus	in	Cancer
Here	there	is	deep	sensitivity	where	romantic	feelings	are	concerned,	along	with
a	strong	desire	for	both	emotional	and	financial	security.	Venus	in	Cancer	seeks
marriage	as	a	basis	for	a	stable	domestic	life,	placing	great	value	on	home	and
family.	The	extreme	sensitivity	of	these	people	can	make	them	easily	hurt,	and
their	 moods	 can	 be	 fluctuating	 and	 unpredictable.	 They	 require	 open
demonstrations	of	affection	 in	order	 to	feel	 loved	and	secure.	Their	homes	are
places	 of	 comfort	 and	 beauty	 and	 the	 preferred	 center	 of	 their	 social	 activity.
Both	men	and	women	with	Venus	in	this	sign	will	have	strong	maternal	natures.
Women	with	Venus	 in	Cancer	have	a	delicate	 femininity	and	are	often	highly
domestic,	cooking	and	keeping	house	for	those	they	love.	If	Venus	is	afflicted,
these	 individuals	may	exhibit	a	maudlin	sentimentality	and	unstable	emotional
reactions.

Venus	in	Leo
Those	with	Venus	in	Leo	are	ardent	and	constant	in	love.	Born	romantics,	they
love	courtships	that	are	dramatic	and	exciting,	as	they	are	themselves	lovers	of
life	 and	 theatrical	 in	 their	 behavior	 and	 personal	 expression.	 Their	 ability	 to
dramatize	 emotions	 makes	 them	 good	 actors	 and	 actresses.	 They	 are
warmhearted,	outgoing,	and	affectionate	and	will	have	a	particular	fondness	for
children.	 They	 are	 deeply	 loyal	 to	 those	 they	 choose	 as	worthy	 of	 their	 royal
affections	and	tend	to	be	proud	of	their	partners,	with	a	desire	to	show	them	off.
They	can	become	 jealous	and	possessive,	however,	when	 their	partner	 fails	or
neglects	 to	 pay	 them	 the	 appropriate	 homage	 in	 return.	Women	 in	 particular
with	 Venus	 in	 this	 position	 wish	 to	 be	 admired	 and	 appreciated	 and	 will



compete	 for	 attention	 in	 social	 situations.	 They	 can,	 indeed,	 be	 demanding
prima	donnas	and	easily	seduced	by	flattery	and	attention.	If	Venus	is	afflicted,
the	individual	can	be	selfish,	narcissistic,	vain,	excessively	proud,	snobbish,	and
overly	 concerned	 with	 sex.	 With	 an	 afflicted	 Venus	 in	 Leo,	 the	 individual's
romantic	relationships	can	be	shallow,	based	more	on	flattering	the	self	than	on
any	deep	or	profound	emotional	connection.

Venus	in	Virgo
Venus	 in	Virgo	will	 tend	 to	 analyze	 emotions	 and	 be	 highly	 critical	 of	 loved
ones.	 This	 emphasis	 on	 critical	 analysis	 can	 inhibit	 the	 flow	 of	 spontaneous
affection	as	well	 as	hinder	 the	 intuitive	and	natural	 response	 to	beauty.	Those
with	Venus	in	Virgo	often	seek	partners	with	whom	they	can	share	their	work
and	intellectual	pursuits.	However,	Venus	in	this	sign	is	more	likely	to	indicate
those	 who	 remain	 single	 and	 unmarried	 owing	 to	 their	 highly	 critical	 and
exacting	standards	for	a	mate.	In	such	cases,	their	affections	may	be	redirected
toward	pets	or	even	inanimate	objects.	These	individuals	are	fastidious	when	it
comes	to	matters	of	order,	manners,	and	hygiene.	Their	extreme	sense	of	social
propriety	is	often	a	shield	hiding	feelings	of	social	and	sexual	inferiority	and	can
prevent	 them	 from	 developing	 successful	 romantic	 relationships,	 resulting	 in
feelings	of	 frustration,	 loneliness,	and	social	 isolation.	 If	Venus	 is	well	placed
and	well	aspected,	these	tendencies	can	be	overcome	or	compensated.	Venus	in
Virgo	 can	 impart	 a	 love	 of	 material	 comforts	 and	 possessions	 of	 quality	 and
beauty,	which	these	individuals	believe	impart	status.	They	are	capable	of	being
highly	sympathetic,	with	a	nurturing	instinct	and	ability	that	makes	them	skilled
at	tending	to	the	sick.	Reason	and	analysis	combined	with	the	emotions	(Venus
in	a	Mercury-ruled	sign)	can	also	bestow	gifts	in	the	field	of	psychotherapy.	If
Venus	 is	 afflicted	 by	Mars,	Neptune,	Uranus,	 or	 Pluto,	 these	 individuals	may
well	react	against	shyness,	their	feelings	of	sexual	inferiority,	and	the	strictures
of	social	propriety	by	adopting	a	loose	and	promiscuous	lifestyle	in	their	search
for	love	and	sexual	fulfillment,	while	affirming	their	own	desirability.

Venus	in	Libra
Marriage	 and	 harmonious	 social	 relationships	 are	 of	 paramount	 importance	 to
Venus	in	Libra.	Venus	rules	Libra	and	is	very	powerful	here,	usually	bestowing
physical	beauty	and	a	natural	animal	grace	that	is	very	attractive	to	the	opposite
sex.	They	have	an	innate	ability	to	understand	the	feelings	of	others,	along	with
a	 strong	 desire	 for	 companionship	 and	 relationships	 based	 on	 a	 close	 and
harmonious	 bond.	 These	 people	 have	 a	 strong	 desire	 to	 please	 and	 a	 deep



consideration	for	others,	along	with	a	sense	of	justice	and	fairness	in	all	of	their
relationships.	 They	 have	 the	 typical	 Libran	 dislike	 of	 crudeness	 and	 coarse
manners,	 and	 are	 themselves	 gracious	 and	 polite.	 Although	 romantic	 and
affectionate,	 like	 all	 air	 signs,	 they	 seek	 mental	 stimulation	 in	 a	 partner.
Disagreements	 and	 discord	 are	 particularly	 distasteful	 to	 them	 and	 they	 can
become	 nervous,	 distressed,	 and	 even	 ill	 if	 overly	 exposed	 to	 them.	 Unlike
Venus	 in	Taurus,	 the	Libra	Venusians	 seek	 status	 through	 relationships	 rather
than	 through	money	 and	 possessions.	 They	 have	 a	 highly	 developed	 sense	 of
aesthetics	and	are	often	artistically	gifted,	especially	musically.	As	an	air	sign,
they	generally	have	keen	and	precise	hearing	along	with	an	acute	sense	of	smell.
People	with	Venus	afflicted	in	Libra	can	appear	to	lack	integrity	owing	to	their
desire	 to	 avoid	 conflict	 at	 all	 costs;	 their	 social	 and	 emotional	 values	 can	 be
superficial	and	conformist.	Women	with	Libra	in	Venus	have	a	deep	desire	to	be
cared	for.	In	public,	social	propriety	is	very	important	to	them,	and	they	prefer	a
restrained	and	sophisticated	approach	on	the	part	of	the	male.

Venus	in	Scorpio
With	Venus	in	Scorpio,	emotions	and	sexual	desires	are	strong	and	passionate,
often	 jealous	 and	 secretive.	 These	 individuals	 take	 much	 pride	 in	 sex	 and
romance.	In	more	highly	evolved	types,	idealism,	respect,	and	consideration	for
the	 needs	 of	 others	 in	 close	 personal	 relationships	 and	 romantic	 and	 sexual
involvements	 are	 prominent.	 If	Venus	 is	 afflicted	here,	 it	may	 indicate	 a	 dark
obsession	with	sex	and	sensuality;	in	close	personal	relationships,	their	reactions
can	 be	 highly	 emotional,	 and	 intense	 feelings	 and	 desires	 can	 blind	 them	 to
others'	points	of	view.	If	Venus	in	Scorpio	is	afflicted	in	a	woman's	horoscope,
she	can	be	 the	classic	 femme	 fatale	who	uses	her	 sexual	power	 to	manipulate
and	use	others.	Venus	in	this	sign	can	lead	to	emotional	extremes	and	excesses.
On	the	dark	side,	 they	may	take	romance	too	seriously.	If	slighted	or	rejected,
intense	 jealousy,	 resentment,	 and	 bitterness	 can	 be	 the	 result.	 If	 their	 love	 is
abused	or	 betrayed,	 they	may	 respond	with	 hatred	 or	 cold	 indifference.	There
may	also	be	a	strong	and	dangerous	desire	to	dominate	or	subtly	control	a	close
personal	 relationship,	marriage,	 or	 business	partner.	The	 intense	 emotions	 and
desires	of	Venus	in	this	sign	can	make	for	a	strong	and	vivid	personality,	with
an	aura	of	mystery	and	intrigue.	These	individuals	will	be	attracted	to	the	occult
sciences	and	life's	hidden	mysteries	and	are	psychically	sensitive	to	the	thoughts
and	feelings	of	others.

Venus	in	Sagittarius



One	of	the	great	psychological	astrologers,	Dane	Rudhyar,	has	noted	that	each
sign	is	in	reaction	to	and	has	evolved	from	the	extremes	of	the	sign	preceding	it.
This	 is	 particularly	 true	 of	 Venus	 in	 Sagittarius.	 The	 dark	 jealousies	 and
intrigues	 of	 Venus	 in	 Scorpio	 seem	 puerile	 and	 unevolved	 to	 Venus	 in
Sagittarius,	which	seeks	to	base	its	relationships	on	more	objective	and	ethical
principles.	These	people	are	vivacious	and	sociable,	outspoken,	and	frank.	Their
conduct	 is	 ruled	by	 traditional	moral	 structures	 in	which	 they	 seek	 to	be	open
and	honest	in	their	relationships.	They	will	often	try	to	convert	their	spouses	or
partners	to	their	own	religious	or	moral	beliefs	simply	to	have	mutually	agreed
upon	 rules	 of	 conduct.	 Jupiter's	 rulership	 of	 Sagittarius	 can	make	 them	 lavish
and	 flamboyant	 in	 their	 artistic	 tastes,	 with	 a	 decided	 attraction	 to	 classical
forms	 in	both	art	and	music,	especially	 those	with	a	 religious	or	philosophical
theme.	They	gain	emotional	satisfaction	 through	sports,	outdoor	activities,	and
travel.	Often,	 people	with	Venus	 in	Sagittarius	marry	 foreigners	 or	 those	 of	 a
different	 race.	 If	 Venus	 is	 afflicted	 here,	 they	 can	 be	 offensively	 blunt,
impractical	in	their	idealism	concerning	romance,	and	likely	to	impose	dogmatic
beliefs	and	standards	on	their	loved	ones.

Venus	in	Capricorn
Saturn's	 rulership	 of	 Capricorn	 may	 cause	 those	 with	 Venus	 in	 this	 sign	 to
repress	their	emotions	and	sexuality,	at	least	in	public,	for	in	private	they	can	be
highly	 sensual.	 Here,	 wealth	 and	 material	 status	 are	 necessary	 for	 emotional
security.	Often,	these	individuals	will	seek	to	improve	their	status	by	marrying
someone	 of	 wealth	 or	 social	 standing.	 Reserved	 and	 dignified,	 they	 dislike
overt,	 public	 displays	 of	 emotion	 and	 affection.	 Although	 not	 openly
demonstrative	in	their	affections,	they	are	loyal	and	steadfast	to	their	loved	ones.
If	they	marry	young,	they	will	seek	older,	more	mature	partners.	If	they	marry
later	in	life,	they	will	seek	younger	mates	whom	they	can	provide	for	in	return
for	 affection.	 Like	 Venus	 in	 Sagittarius,	 they	 are	 drawn	 to	 classical	 and
traditional	 art	 forms.	 Those	 with	 an	 afflicted	 Venus	 in	 Capricorn	 may	 tend
toward	 excessive	 materialism,	 emotional	 coldness,	 calculating	 and	 ulterior
motives	in	relationships,	and	marriage	for	money	and	status	with	little	concern
for	love.

Venus	in	Aquarius
Venus	in	Aquarius	is	in	reaction	to	the	materialism	and	statusseeking	of	Venus
in	Capricorn.	Here,	the	romantic	partner	must	be	a	friend	as	well	as	a	lover	and
understand	 the	 Aquarian	 need	 for	 freedom,	 variety,	 and	 mental	 stimulation.



Venus	 in	 Aquarius	 dislikes	 jealousy	 and	 possessiveness	 and	 will	 reject	 any
romantic	 partner	 who	 seeks	 to	 restrict	 his	 or	 her	 social	 freedom.	 Romantic
attractions	 can	 be	 sudden	 and	 casual	 as	 opposed	 to	 stable	 and	 lasting.
Intellectual	stimulation	is	important	in	a	romantic	partner,	and	these	people	are
often	 attracted	 to	 ingenious	 or	 eccentric	 types,	 as	 well	 as	 to	 those	 who	 can
expand	their	social	outlets	and	broaden	their	horizons.	Their	attitudes	regarding
social	and	sexual	morality	can	be	unusual,	departing	from	accepted	norms.	As
with	Venus	in	Gemini	and	Libra,	they	have	an	acute	distaste	for	crude	behavior
and	 coarse	manners,	 although	 they	 themselves	may	 not	 necessarily	 adhere	 to
traditional	mores.	 Their	 eclecticism	 can	 give	 them	 unusual	 aesthetics	 that	 are
both	 extremely	 modern	 and	 extremely	 ancient,	 a	 product	 of	 Uranus's	 and
Saturn's	corulership	of	Aquarius.	They	have	a	highly	developed	intuition	about
people's	 social	 and	 emotional	 dispositions	 that	 can	 at	 times	 verge	 on	 being
telepathic.	If	Venus	is	afflicted	here,	these	people	can	be	sexually	eccentric	and
promiscuous,	and	their	emotions	can	be	subject	to	radical	changes,	breaking	off
an	old	relationship	and	creating	a	new	one	simply	out	of	 the	desire	for	greater
freedom	and	new	experience.	They	may	be	unable	to	cope	with	the	confines	of
marriage.	Their	emotional	attitudes	can	be	fixed	and	stubborn,	refusing	to	see	or
consider	 other	 points	 of	 view.	 If	 Venus	 is	 well	 aspected,	 they	 are	 capable	 of
sustained	and	dedicated	loyalty	to	someone	they	truly	love	and	admire.

Venus	in	Pisces
With	Venus	in	Pisces,	the	love	principle	reaches	its	highest	manifestation	on	the
evolutionary	 scale	 of	 the	 Zodiac.	 The	 universality	 of	 Venus	 in	 Aquarius
combines	 with	 the	 emotional	 depth	 and	 empathy	 of	 Pisces	 to	 produce	 an
emotional	rapport	with	all	life.	The	experience	and	knowledge	of	having	passed
through	all	 the	 signs	of	 the	Zodiac	enable	 the	 soul	 to	 identify	and	sympathize
with	 all	 of	 humanity.	 Those	with	Venus	 in	 Pisces	 are	 sensitive	 and	 romantic.
They	 marry	 for	 love	 and	 love	 only.	 They	 require	 clear	 and	 demonstrative
expressions	of	love	and	affection	in	order	not	to	feel	lonely	and	unappreciated.
If	 such	 demonstrations	 are	 not	 forthcoming,	 they	 may	 experience	 feelings	 of
martyrdom	 which	 may	 express	 themselves	 religiously	 or	 lead	 to	 neurosis	 or
mental	 illness,	 or	 all	 three.	 Neptune's	 rulership	 of	 Pisces	 provides	 intuitive
inspiration	to	Venus,	making	these	people	capable	of	great	creative	expression
in	 art,	 poetry,	 and	 music	 that	 can	 seem	 divinely	 bestowed.	 Venus	 in	 Pisces
possibly	has	more	 innate	ability	 for	 inspired	artistic	expression	 than	any	other
placement.	 Owing	 to	 their	 acute	 emotional	 sensitivity,	 these	 people	 are	 often
afraid	 of	 being	 hurt	 by	 rejection	 and	 are	 therefore	 reluctant	 to	 express	 their



feelings.	This	can	mean	that	romantic	opportunities	are	sometimes	lost.	They	are
inclined	to	become	emotionally	dependent	on	others	or	have	others	emotionally
dependent	on	them.	If	Venus	is	afflicted,	 they	may	lack	discrimination	in	 love
and	 be	 excessively	 sentimental	 or	 hypersensitive,	 overly	 dependent	 on	 others,
lazy,	or	incapable	of	objectivity	due	to	blinding	emotions.

Venus	in	the	Houses
Venus	in	the	houses	shows	how	we	express	ourselves	romantically,	socially,	and
artistically.	The	house	in	which	Venus	is	located	denotes	the	type	of	people	with
whom	we	form	friendships	and	social	and	romantic	relationships.

Venus	in	the	1st	House
Those	with	Venus	in	the	1st	House	have	personal	grace,	pleasant	manners,	and
friendly	 dispositions.	 It	 is	 a	 position	 especially	 beneficial	 to	 women,	 for	 it
bestows	physical	beauty.	It	usually	indicates	a	happy	childhood	and	therefore	a
happy	outlook	on	life.	These	people	are	outgoing	and	aggressive	in	their	efforts
to	make	friends	and	find	lovers.	They	are	fond	of	anything	that	enhances	their
personal	 appearance,	 from	 fine	 clothes	 to	 expensive	 hair	 cuts.	Their	 ability	 to
mix	well	socially	provides	them	with	both	business	and	romantic	opportunities.

Venus	in	the	2nd	House
Venus	in	the	2nd	House	indicates	a	love	of	wealth	and	all	the	things	that	money
can	 buy,	 including	 social	 status.	 These	 people	 seek	 romantic	 and	 marriage
partners	who	are	wealthy	and	able	to	provide	the	material	comforts	and	luxuries
they	desire.	They	are	talented	in	matters	of	business,	especially	in	business	that
involves	the	arts.	Women	with	this	position	tend	to	be	extravagant,	and	the	men
are	 prone	 to	 spend	 large	 amounts	 of	money	 entertaining	 the	women	 they	 are
courting	or	even	married	 to.	Help	comes	 from	friends	and	social	 contacts	 that
lead	to	positions	and	agreements	in	business	that	bring	wealth.

Venus	in	the	3rd	House
Venus	 here	 indicates	 a	 strong	 interest	 in	 artistic	 and	 cultural	 pursuits,	 with	 a
special	love	of	literature	and	poetry.	Communication	skills,	especially	in	speech
and	writing,	are	very	well	developed.	A	considerable	amount	of	short-distance
travel	 for	 both	 business	 and	 pleasure	 is	 indicated.	 These	 individuals	 have	 a
tendency	 to	 intellectually	 analyze	both	 their	 romantic	 and	 social	 relationships.
They	communicate	well	with	their	romantic	partners	and	friends	and	have	good
relationships	with	their	siblings	and	neighbors.	Often,	their	social	and	romantic



contacts	are	made	through	neighborhood	activities	and	cultural	and	intellectual
pursuits.

Venus	in	the	4th	House
This	position	denotes	a	strong	attachment	to	the	home,	where	these	individuals
prefer	 to	 entertain	 romantic	 partners	 and	 friends	 in	 a	 warm	 and	 intimate
domestic	 environment.	 The	 home	 will	 always	 be	 as	 beautifully	 decorated	 as
personal	 means	 allow.	 They	 tend	 to	 be	 close	 to	 their	 parents,	 through	 whom
much	happiness,	as	well	as	inheritance,	can	come.	Fourth-House	Venus	people
will	have	a	patriotic	love	of	the	natural	beauties	of	their	homeland,	along	with	a
general	 love	of	 land,	gardening,	 and	beautiful	plants	and	shrubs.	Venus	 in	 the
4th	House	holds	the	promise	of	being	surrounded	by	beauty	and	comfort	in	old
age.

Venus	in	the	5th	House
Venus	in	the	5th	House	indicates	a	romantic	nature	and	a	love	of	pleasure	and
life	 in	general.	 If	Venus	 is	well	 aspected,	 the	 individual	will	 obtain	happiness
through	 romance	 and	 many	 romantic	 opportunities.	 These	 people	 tend	 to	 be
popular	 and	 lovers	 of,	 and	 talented	 in,	 the	 performing	 arts.	 Venus	 in	 this
position	 bestows	 a	 deep	 love	 of	 children	 and	 produces	 loving	 parents	 and
teachers.	Their	 children	 are	 likely	 to	 be	 girls	who	 are	 artistically	 talented	 and
physically	beautiful.

Venus	in	the	6th	House
With	Venus	in	the	6th	House,	both	friendships	and	romance	are	more	than	likely
to	come	about	 through	work.	Working	conditions	and	 relationships	 tend	 to	be
pleasant	and	harmonious.	People	with	Venus	in	the	6th	have	a	love	of	beautiful
clothing	 and	 often	 ability	 in	 dressmaking	 and	 fashion	 design.	 Although	 they
aren't	 necessarily	 robust,	 their	 health	 tends	 to	 be	 good,	 and	 it	 often	 improves
with	marriage.

Venus	in	the	7th	House
Here,	marriage	and	close	friendships	are	very	important.	Marriage	is	sought	in
the	 name	of	 romantic	 fulfillment,	 and	 if	Venus	 is	well	 aspected,	 the	marriage
will	be	happy	and	harmonious.	The	7th-House	Venus	openly	expresses	love	and
consequently	receives	it	in	return.	These	people	tend	to	be	very	popular	because
of	 their	 pleasant	 demeanor	 and	 consideration	 for	 others.	 They	 usually	 marry
young	and	gain	financial	success	through	marriage.



Venus	in	the	8th	House
Here	 we	 find	 financial	 gain	 through	marriage	 and	 partnerships.	 This	 position
tends	 to	 indicate	 an	 inheritance,	 unless	 Venus	 is	 afflicted,	 in	 which	 case
marriage	can	be	motivated	more	by	financial	gain	than	love,	or	there	can	be	an
overemphasis	 on	 sex	 and	 sensuality.	 The	 intense	 emotions	 of	 the	 8th-House
Venus	can	result	in	jealousy	and	possessiveness.

Venus	in	the	9th	House
With	Venus	in	the	9th	House,	the	individual	has	a	basic	love	of	philosophy,	art,
religion,	and	travel.	Marriage	partners	and	friends	are	met	 through	universities
and	religious	groups,	as	well	as	 through	travel	 to	foreign	shores.	These	people
have	strong	ideals	regarding	love	and	may	attempt	to	convert	their	loved	ones	to
their	 own	 beliefs.	 Generally,	 they	 are	 well	 educated	 with	 a	 strong	 interest	 in
artistic	and	cultural	history.

Venus	in	the	10th	House
Here	there	is	both	social	and	artistic	ambition,	and	if	the	individual	does	possess
artistic	talent,	there	is	a	strong	likelihood	of	achieving	recognition	and	success.
Marriage	 will	 probably	 be	 sought	 with	 someone	who	 can	 bestow	wealth	 and
status.	Relationships	with	employers	will	generally	be	good,	and	Venus	in	this
house	 grants	 success	 in	 dealings	 with	 the	 opposite	 sex,	 who	 will	 help	 in
advancing	 his	 or	 her	 career.	 If	 Venus	 is	 afflicted,	 these	 individuals	 can	 be
inclined	 to	 forget	 their	 old	 friends	 as	 they	 climb	 the	 social	 and	 professional
ladder.

Venus	in	the	11th	House
Friendships	 and	 other	 relationships	 resulting	 from	 participation	 in	 group
activities	are	indicated	by	Venus	in	the	11th	House.	Kindness	shown	will	mean
kindness	received,	adding	greatly	to	the	likeliness	of	hopes	and	ambitions	being
realized.	 Many	 friendships	 will	 be	 made	 with	 members	 of	 the	 opposite	 sex.
Friends	can	become	romantic	partners,	and	romantic	partners,	friends.

Venus	in	the	12th	House
The	12th-House	Venus	person	loves	quiet	and	solitude,	and	personal	and	even
social	 contacts	will	 tend	 to	 be	 secretive	 or	 at	 least	 of	 a	 highly	 private	 nature.
This	 also	 applies	 to	 love	 affairs.	 But	 these	 people's	 shyness	 can	 result	 in
loneliness	and	unrequited	love.	Artistic	inspiration	can	come	from	being	deeply



attuned	to	the	unconscious	mind,	and	these	people	are	also	highly	sympathetic
and	 compassionate	 toward	 others.	 They	 can	 be	 extremely	 sensitive	 and	 easily
hurt.

Aspects	of	Venus
Aspects	 of	 Venus,	 along	 with	 the	 sign	 it	 is	 in	 and	 the	 houses	 it	 rules	 (those
where	Taurus	and	Libra	are	 found),	 show	 the	areas	of	 life	most	 influenced	by
the	 need	 and	 desire	 for	 companionship,	 how	 love	 is	 expressed	 on	 an	 intimate
basis,	aesthetic	sensibilities,	and	artistically	creative	abilities.	Venus	aspects	also
indicate	 whether	 the	 individual	 excels	 or	 has	 difficulty	 in	 relating	 to	 others,
where	and	how	they	express	social,	romantic,	and	sexual	urges,	and	where	they
serve	and	give	with	 love	and	 joy.	 In	a	male	horoscope,	Venus	and	 the	 factors
affecting	 it	 indicate	 the	 kind	 of	 woman	 he	 wishes	 to	 attract;	 in	 a	 female
horoscope,	they	show	what	kind	of	woman	she	will	be	for	a	man.

Venus	Conjunctions
Conjunctions	 of	 Venus	 indicate	 a	 gentle	 and	 graceful	 expression	 of	 the
individual's	 social,	 romantic,	and	aesthetic	attributes.	These	 individuals	have	a
great	 deal	 of	 emotional	 sensitivity,	 and	 the	 grace	 and	 ease	 with	 which	 they
express	themselves	is	especially	attractive	to	the	opposite	sex.	This	applies	to	all
areas	ruled	by	the	planet	or	planets	that	Venus	conjuncts	in	the	signs	and	houses
where	the	conjunction	is	formed	and	in	the	houses	and	signs	ruled	by	Venus.

Venus	Sextiles
Venus	sextiles	indicate	opportunities	for	social	and	aesthetic	development	in	the
areas	ruled	by	the	planets,	houses,	and	signs	that	form	the	sextile.	Emotional	and
artistic	expression	can	be	refined	and	affections	developed	in	the	areas	ruled	by
the	 signs	 and	houses	which	Venus	 and	 the	planets	 forming	 the	 sextile	occupy
and	rule.

Venus	Squares
Venus	squares	point	to	either	difficulties	or	more	than	the	“fair	dose”	of	energy
in	both	 social	 and	 romantic	 relationships.	The	affairs	 ruled	by	 the	planets	 that
square	Venus	and	the	signs	and	houses	occupied	and	ruled	by	these	planets	will
all	in	some	way	be	affected	by	this	energy.

Venus	Trines
Venus	 trines	 indicate	 beauty	 and	 grace	 along	 with	 social	 popularity	 and



happiness	 in	 love	and	 romance.	The	 individual	benefits	greatly	 from	 the	good
will	 of	 other	 people.	 This	will	 be	 especially	 true	 in	 the	 areas	 affected	 by	 the
planets	 that	make	up	the	 trine	and	the	signs	and	houses	 the	planets	and	Venus
occupy	and	rule.

Venus	Oppositions
Venus	oppositions	are	a	strong	indicator	of	emotional	problems	and	conflicts	in
marriage	and	romantic	relationships.	The	individuals	tend	to	be	overly	sensitive
and	demanding	while	giving	 little	 in	 return.	Disappointments	and	unhappiness
are	the	inevitable	result.	The	signs	and	the	houses	occupied	and	ruled	by	Venus
and	the	opposing	planets	and	the	affairs	ruled	by	these	planets	indicate	the	areas
which	will	be	most	affected	by	this	configuration.



CHAPTER	9
Mars

Mars	 is	 very	 important	 in	 the	 horoscope	 not	 only	 due	 to	 its	 link	 with	 the
Ascendant	through	its	natural	rulership	of	the	1st	House,	but	to	its	signification
of	what	makes	us	get	up	and	go.

Mars	in	the	Signs
In	the	signs,	Mars	tells	us	about	how	we	channel	our	drives,	including	what	we
do	to	get	the	things	we	want,	how	we	assert	ourselves	with	others,	and	the	kind
of	physical	and	sexual	energy	we	carry.

Mars	in	Aries
Mars	in	Aries	indicates	uncontainable	energy	that	must	find	an	outlet	in	which
to	 channel	 its	 intense	 initiative,	 courage,	 and	 impulsiveness.	There	 is	 a	 strong
drive	 to	 get	 things	 done,	 with	 a	 great	 desire	 to	 be	 first.	 Staying	 power	 and
sustained	 enthusiasm,	 however,	may	 be	 lacking,	 so	 that	 projects	 are	 not	 seen
through	to	their	conclusion.	These	individuals	can	be	headstrong	and	extremely
independent,	with	little	to	no	tolerance	for	opposition	or	interference.	They	are
highly	competitive	and	enjoy	pitting	their	strength	and	courage	against	others,	in
sports	as	well	as	in	the	game	of	life	in	general.	They	are	prone	to	head	injuries
and,	when	sick,	run	high	fevers	that	would	normally	kill	others	but	which	they
somehow	 survive.	 If	Mars	 is	 afflicted	 here,	 these	 people	 can	 be	 fraught	 with
aggressiveness,	 egotism,	 impatience,	 and	 anger.	 Although	 the	 Mars	 in	 Aries
temper	is	violent,	such	outbursts	 tend	to	be	short	 lived.	These	individuals	may
also	have	an	unconscious	need	to	prove	their	worth	through	outward	expressions
of	strength	or	courage.

Mars	in	Taurus
Mars	 in	Taurus	 produces	 a	 strong	 desire	 for	money	 and	material	 possessions,
with	much	 energy	 and	 focus	 channeled	 into	 the	 practical	means	 for	 acquiring
them.	These	people	may	tend	to	be	slow	to	act	but	have	great	determination	and
perseverance	once	action	is	taken	and,	although	not	particularly	aggressive,	can
be	 stubborn	 and	 unyielding	 if	 challenged.	Gifted	with	 patience	 and	 precision,
they	often	make	good	craftsmen	and	artisans	who	create	objects	of	beauty	and
durability	out	of	solid	and	sturdy	materials.	If	Mars	is	afflicted,	these	people	can
be	 preoccupied	 with	 sex	 and	 sensuality	 as	 well	 as	 with	 money	 and	 material



possessions.	They	can	be	jealous	and	possessive.	The	violence	that	can	arise	out
of	 their	 sexual	 jealousy	 can	 be	 just	 as	 intense	 as	 that	 of	 Mars	 in	 Scorpio
(Taurus's	opposite).

Mars	in	Gemini
Mars	in	Gemini	makes	for	highly	active	and	critical	minds,	with	a	love	of	debate
and	mental	contest,	and	tends	to	imbue	some	sort	of	mechanical	or	manual	skill.
Restlessness	 is	 also	 characteristic	 of	 this	 position,	 implying	 that	 there	will	 be
many	changes	of	occupation	or	working	at	more	than	one	job	at	the	same	time.
Ingenuity	 and	 resourcefulness	 are	 typical	 characteristics.	 If	 Mars	 is	 afflicted
here,	the	individual	can	be	argumentative,	irritable,	sarcastic,	abrasive,	and	rude.

Mars	in	Cancer
There	 is	 a	 strong	 tendency	 here	 for	 the	 individual	 to	 be	 intensely	 emotional.
Moodiness	 and	 aggressive	 anger	 can	 be	 the	 cause	 of	 discord	 and	 strife	 in
domestic	 relationships,	 and	 troubled	 relationships	 with	 parents	 can	 lead	 to
psychological	 problems	 later	 in	 life.	 Suppressed	 emotions	 can	 also	 lead	 to
psychological	 ailments,	 along	with	 ulcers	 and	 other	 stomach	 problems.	 These
people	will	have	a	strong	desire	to	dominate	the	domestic	scene	and	to	own	or
build	 their	 own	 home,	 which	 also	makes	 them	 very	 good	 carpenters	 and	 do-
ityourself	handypersons.

Mars	in	Leo
Mars	 in	 Leo	 bestows	 great	 energy,	 willpower,	 creativity,	 and	 charisma,	 and
much	 of	 it	will	 be	 expressed	 dramatically	 through	 the	 arts.	Many	 actors	 have
Mars	in	Leo.	Mars	in	this	sign	instills	self-confidence	and	social	flare,	making
for	 natural	 leaders	whom	 others	 admire.	 Proud	 and	 high-spirited,	 they	 have	 a
strong	desire	 to	be	 in	 the	forefront	or	 the	 limelight.	Their	beliefs	and	opinions
are	 strong	 and	 unswerving,	 which	 can	 often	 inspire	 opposition	 from	 others
rather	 than	 conversion.	 The	 Mars	 in	 Leo	 desires	 are	 fixed	 and	 passionate,
making	for	individuals	who	are	ardent	in	their	love	but	also	capable	of	intense
jealousy	 and	 possessiveness.	 There	 is	 a	 very	 strong	 attraction	 to	 the	 opposite
sex,	who	 respond	 in	kind	 to	Mars's	vitality.	As	with	Mars	 in	Aries,	men	with
Mars	in	Leo	are	inclined	to	premature	boldness.	When	Mars	is	afflicted	in	Leo,
an	overblown	ego,	overbearing	manner,	and	a	need	to	dominate	others	may	be
evident	in	the	individual.

Mars	in	Virgo



Mars	 here	 indicates	 great	 skill	 and	 energy,	 precision,	 and	 methodology	 in
whatever	 work	 the	 individual	 performs.	 His	 or	 her	 actions	 are	 systematically
planned	and	carefully	executed.	Virgo	is	the	sign	of	health,	and	Mars	rules	sharp
instruments,	 so	 that	 quite	 often	 surgeons	 have	 Mars	 in	 this	 sign.	 There	 is	 a
strong	 tendency	 toward	 perfectionism,	 which	 can	 make	 these	 subjects	 overly
fastidious.	If	Mars	is	afflicted,	the	individual	may	have	an	irritable	and	nervous
temperament,	disagreements	with	employers	and	coworkers,	and/or	be	at	risk	of
job-related	accidents.

Mars	in	Libra
Libra	 gives	 grace	 and	 refinement	 to	 the	 otherwise	 selfish	 and	 aggressive
tendencies	of	Mars,	 and	 their	 combined	energies	gives	 the	 individual	 a	 strong
urge	 for	 balanced	 action	 within	 a	 social	 context.	 Libra	 is	 a	 cardinal	 sign
concerned	with	social	relationships	and	partnerships,	so	those	with	Mars	in	this
sign	 tend	 to	 be	 initiators	 of	 social	 activities.	 They	 have	 a	 strong	 desire	 to	 be
noticed	and	appreciated	by	others.	Although	Mars	is	here	softened	and	tempered
by	Venus,	these	individuals	can	become	very	angry	when	their	sense	of	justice
is	violated.	They	seek	marriage	with	an	energetic	and	aggressive	partner	for	the
emotional	 gratification	 it	 can	 provide.	 If	 this	 Mars	 is	 afflicted,	 they	 can	 be
overly	 strict	 concerning	 the	 rules	 of	 social	 conduct,	 and	 difficulties	 in
partnerships	and	relationships	can	arise	from	conflicts	of	will.

Mars	in	Scorpio
Mars	 in	 Scorpio	 confers	 powerful	 desires	 and	 emotions	 along	 with	 relentless
courage	 and	 drive.	 It	 can	 represent	 the	 heights	 of	 spiritual	 development	 and
achievement	or	the	lowest	depths	of	moral	degradation.	With	steadfast	courage,
determination,	and	resourcefulness,	Mars	in	Scorpio	will	rise	to	the	occasion	in
the	face	of	adversity.	These	individuals	are	capable	of	an	uncompromising	fight
to	the	death	in	defense	of	their	principles.	In	fact,	death	will	be	faced	fearlessly
if	 it	 is	 necessary	 to	 do	 so	 in	 order	 to	 accomplish	 high-minded	 goals.	 The
powerful	 sex	 drive	 of	Mars	 in	 Scorpio	makes	 for	 ardent	 lovers	 who	 are	 also
capable	 of	 intense	 jealousy	 and	 possessiveness.	 These	 people	 can	 be
uncompromising,	 with	 an	 all-or-nothing	 attitude,	 and	 prone	 to	 making	 either
devoted	friends	or	enemies	in	their	dealings	with	others.	When	Mars	is	afflicted,
they	can	be	prone	 to	anger	and	resentment.	Slights	and	offenses	are	not	easily
forgotten	and	grudges	can	be	held	for	a	long	time,	making	the	Mars	in	Scorpio
person	 a	 dangerous	 enemy	 to	 have.	 They	 may	 also	 have	 a	 tendency	 to
emotionally	dominate	others.



Mars	in	Sagittarius
Mars	here	dispenses	 strong	 religious	and	philosophical	convictions	and	 ideals,
often	with	strong	feelings	of	patriotism	and	a	crusader	mentality	in	the	name	of
the	causes	and	beliefs	 the	 individual	adheres	 to.	There	 is	also	a	 love	of	 sports
and	outdoor	activities,	and	Mars	in	Sagittarius	can	confer	a	very	distinct	love	of
hunting	(Sagittarius	is	the	sign	of	the	Archer,	of	Artemis,	the	Greek	goddess	of
the	hunt).	They	also	love	all	kinds	of	travel	and	adventure.	Mars	in	Sagittarius
desires	 to	 be	 a	 leader	 in	 law,	 religion,	 philosophy	 or	 education,	 but	 with	 a
tendency	to	follow	traditional	or	conservative	paths	and	to	be	self-righteous	 in
this	 regard.	Their	 love	of	adventure	and	desire	 to	attain	far-reaching	goals	can
cause	people	with	Mars	 in	Sagittarius	 to	 scatter	 their	 energies	 and	neglect	 the
practical	matters	of	their	immediate	surroundings.	If	Mars	is	afflicted,	they	may
be	querulous,	with	a	pronounced	 lack	of	diplomacy	in	expressing	opinions,	an
inability	or	refusal	to	see	other	points	of	view,	and	a	neurotic	desire	for	freedom
at	 any	 cost—a	 sort	 of	 flight	mechanism.	An	 afflicted	Mars	 in	 Sagittarius	 can
also	indicate	political	or	religious	fanaticism.

Mars	in	Capricorn
Although	less	sensual	than	Mars	in	Taurus	or	Scorpio,	Mars	in	Capricorn	people
can	 be	 extremely	 materialistic	 and	 driven	 almost	 solely	 by	 ambition.	 Their
actions	 are	 carefully	 calculated	 to	 achieve	 concrete	 results—usually	 the
acquisition	 of	 money	 and	 power.	 As	 with	 Mars	 in	 Virgo,	 these	 individuals
require	a	practical	and	concrete	 reason	for	anything	 they	do.	The	success	 they
achieve	is	not	necessarily	selfish,	as	it	also	provides	the	material	needs	for	their
families	 and	 other	 dependents.	 Generally,	 Mars	 in	 this	 sign	 confers	 a	 high
degree	of	discipline	and	self-control,	along	with	great	pride	in	doing	a	job	well.
They	expect	the	same	discipline	and	obedience	from	those	under	them	(as	they
themselves	show	to	their	superiors)	and	have	an	acute	disdain	for	 laziness	and
lack	 of	 ambition.	 If	Mars	 is	 afflicted,	 there	 is	 a	 dark	 tendency	 to	 use	 people
simply	for	material	or	political	gain,	while	completely	forsaking	human	values.
Since	 Capricorn's	 ruler,	 Saturn,	 governs	 the	 bones,	 the	 afflicted	 Mars	 in
Capricorn	may	be	prone	to	fractures.

Mars	in	Aquarius
Mars	in	Aquarius	demands	absolute	personal	freedom	to	pursue	unconventional
courses	of	action,	often	having	to	do	with	reform	of	the	status	quo.	There	is	little
regard	 or	 respect	 for	 traditional	 views	 or	 methods	 unless	 they	 are	 based	 on
practical	 logic	 and	 experience	 and	 have	 objectively	 earned	 due	 consideration.



As	a	result,	those	with	Mars	in	Aquarius,	unlike	those	with	Mars	in	Capricorn,
do	not	work	well	under	authoritarian	direction.	For	them,	teamwork,	rather	than
individual	 effort,	 is	 far	 more	 likely	 to	 achieve	 results,	 which	 can	 be
considerable,	 especially	 in	 the	 fields	 of	 science	 and	 humanitarian	 endeavors.
These	people	must	be	allowed	to	do	things	their	own	way	and	learn	by	their	own
mistakes.	There	 is,	naturally,	 the	danger	of	discarding	the	old	ways	simply	for
the	sake	of	discarding	them	without	having	anything	new	and	tangible	to	replace
them	with.	When	Mars	is	afflicted,	this	can	manifest	itself	in	a	destructive	way
with	 a	 desire	 to	 overthrow	 the	 established	 order	 without	 offering	 anything	 to
regenerate	and	improve	it.	Many	revolutions	have	occurred	when	Mars	was	 in
Aquarius.	Those	with	an	afflicted	Mars	 in	Aquarius	are	prone	to	 troubles	with
blood	circulation.

Mars	in	Pisces
With	Mars	in	Pisces,	strong	and	unfettered	emotions	can	rise	up	from	out	of	the
unconscious,	 and	 repressed	 anger	 can	 lead	 to	 neurosis	 and	 psychosomatic
illnesses.	 There	 is	 a	 strong	 tendency	 to	 harbor	 unconscious	 resentments.
Excessive	 emotionalism	 can	 diminish	 self-confidence	 and	 inhibit	 decisive
action.	This	is	a	particularly	weak	position,	Pisces	being	a	mutable	water	sign.
These	people	will	 tend	 to	act	secretively	 in	order	 to	avoid	direct	confrontation
with	their	opposition.	There	is	a	strong	need	for	periods	of	quiet	and	solitude	in
order	for	them	to	come	to	terms	with	their	feelings	and	rejuvenate	their	energies.
If	Mars	 is	well	 aspected,	 it	 can	 enhance	 artistic	 or	musical	 expression	 and	 be
beneficial	for	 those	who	work	in	psychology.	If	heavily	afflicted,	 these	people
can	have	a	 tendency	to	cry	easily	and	manipulate	others	by	requiring	attention
for	physical	or	psychological	problems.

Mars	in	the	Houses
Mars	in	the	houses	shows	those	areas	of	life	in	which	we	express	our	desires	and
the	type	of	action	we	must	initiate	to	achieve	results.	Mars	afflicted	in	the	house
indicates	the	types	of	conflict	that	we	are	likely	to	experience.

Mars	in	the	1st	House
These	 individuals	are	 robust	and	muscular,	 aggressive	and	outgoing,	and	have
an	abundance	of	energy	and	physical	stamina.	Ambitious	and	hardworking,	they
are	 capable	 of	 reaching	 great	 heights	 of	 achievement	 if	 their	 courage	 and
strength	 are	 matched	 with	 intelligence	 and	 self-discipline.	 Their	 competitive
instincts	 drive	 them	 to	 seek	 recognition	 and	 public	 acclaim.	 They	 insist	 on



absolute	 freedom	 of	 action	 and	 will	 not	 tolerate	 any	 interference.	 If	 Mars	 is
afflicted,	 these	people	can	be	rash	and	impulsive,	 insensitive	to	 the	feelings	of
others,	 combative,	 and	 prone	 to	 fits	 of	 violent	 temper.	 If	 Mars	 is	 heavily
afflicted,	 they	 can	 have	 a	 tendency	 to	 engage	 in	 physical	 fights.	 Their
impulsiveness	can	lead	to	a	disregard	for	personal	safety.	An	indicator	of	Mars
in	the	1st	House	can	be	a	scar	on	the	head	or	face.	These	people	tend	to	run	high
fevers	when	 they	are	 ill	 and	often	have	 red	or	 reddish-colored	hair.	Men	with
Mars	 in	 the	 1st	 House,	 like	 those	 with	Mars	 in	 Aries,	 can	 be	 prone	 to	 early
baldness.

Mars	in	the	2nd	House
Mars	 in	 the	 2nd	 House	 points	 to	 the	 active	 pursuit	 of	 wealth	 and	 material
possessions.	 These	 individuals	 have	 good	 earning	 abilities	 but	 may	 tend	 to
deplete	their	resources	through	impulsive	spending.	They	have	a	strong	desire	to
own	 and	 run	 their	 own	 businesses	 rather	 than	 work	 for	 anyone	 else	 and	 are
always	 out	 to	 prove	 their	 capacity	 to	 make	 money	 by	 surpassing	 the
competition.	 Personal	 property	 is	 extremely	 important	 to	 them,	 and	 they	 will
fight	to	protect	it.	If	Mars	is	afflicted,	they	may	be	excessively	materialistic	and
overly	concerned	about	material	values.	Covetousness	can	 lead	 to	stealing	and
other	dishonest	means	to	acquire	that	which	is	desired.

Mars	in	the	3rd	House
Here,	 the	 intellect	will	 be	 highly	 active,	 aggressive,	 and	 resourceful,	with	 the
ability	 to	 think	 quickly	 in	 emergency	 situations.	 These	 people	 tend	 to	 be
intellectually	 assertive	 in	order	 to	both	 acquire	 and	deliver	 information.	Many
newspaper	reporters,	for	example,	are	likely	to	have	Mars	in	the	3rd	House,	and
they	can	 also	be	 found	working	with	 communications-related	machinery	or	 in
the	 transportation	 industry.	 If	 Mars	 is	 afflicted,	 these	 people	 can	 be
argumentative	and	sarcastic,	with	a	tendency	to	jump	to	conclusions,	impatient
with	what	they	consider	the	stupidity	of	others,	and	troubled	when	dealing	with
contracts	and	other	agreements.

Mars	in	the	4th	House
This	placement	predisposes	 the	 individual	 to	dominate	 the	domestic	scene	and
direct	 much	 energy	 toward	 the	 home	 in	 general,	 including	 the	 acquisition	 of
property.	 If	Mars	 is	afflicted,	 this	can	 lead	 to	 family	quarrels	and,	 in	children,
conflict	 with	 parents.	 An	 afflicted	 Mars	 can	 also	 indicate	 property-related
troubles,	including	the	danger	of	fire	and	theft.	If	well	aspected,	it	can	indicate	a



person	 who	 works	 hard	 to	 improve	 his	 or	 her	 surroundings,	 not	 only	 on	 the
home	front	but	in	terms	of	environmental	and	ecological	concerns.	Those	with
Mars	 in	 this	 position	 tend	 to	 have	 strong	 constitutions	 and	 energy	 that	 they
sustain	into	old	age.

Mars	in	the	5th	House
With	 Mars	 in	 the	 5th	 House,	 love,	 pleasure,	 sex,	 and	 romance	 are	 actively
pursued,	and	the	strong	sex	drive	of	these	individuals	gives	an	added	aggression
and	 urgency	 to	 the	 need	 for	 a	 sex	 partner.	 If	Mars	 is	 afflicted,	 they	may	 find
themselves	 involved	 in	 quarrels	 about	 sexual	 jealousy	 during	 courtship.	 A
heavily	afflicted	Mars	can	mean	that	sexual	passion	results	in	pregnancy	out	of
wedlock,	as	well	as	 the	possibility	of	 the	 individual's	children	being	subject	 to
accidents	or	even	death.	Mars	in	the	5th	House	is	often	found	in	the	horoscopes
of	athletes,	for	it	conveys	a	natural	love	of	competitive	sports	of	all	kinds.	It	can
also	entail	a	 fondness	 for	working	with	children,	and	often	 these	people	make
good	teachers	who	inspire	enthusiasm	and	devotion	in	their	students.	If	Mars	is
afflicted,	they	can	be	dictatorial	and	authoritarian	to	those	in	their	charge.

Mars	in	the	6th	House
Mars	 in	 the	6th	House	makes	 for	hard	and	energetic	workers,	with	 little	 to	no
patience	for	those	who	are	lazy	or	apathetic.	Often,	the	work	done	will	involve
sharp	tools	or	machinery	that	consumes	a	large	amount	of	power;	thus	Mars	in
this	 position	 is	 often	 found	 in	 the	 horoscopes	 of	 mechanics,	 engineers,	 and
heavy	equipment	operators,	as	well	as	surgeons	and	even	chefs.	Great	skill	and
precision	is	shown	in	work,	with	personal	esteem	being	derived	from	a	job	well
done.	If	Mars	is	afflicted,	irritability,	ill	heath,	or	job	related	injuries	can	result
from	 overwork.	 Labor	 disputes	 and	 on-the-job	 conflicts	 can	 also	 arise.
Perfectionism	and	fussiness	with	details	can	lead	to	the	neglect	of	major	issues
and	concerns.

Mars	in	the	7th	House
Mars	 here	 emphasizes	 the	 importance	 of	 partnerships	 or	 working	 with	 the
public.	 Both	 marriage	 and	 business	 partners	 are	 likely	 to	 have	 active	 and
aggressive	Martian	 natures.	 The	 individual's	 overriding	 preference	 is	 to	 work
and	act	with	a	partner,	and	much	can	be	accomplished	if	Mars	is	well	aspected.
If	Mars	is	afflicted,	there	will	be	disagreements	with	associates	and	conflict	and
divorce	 in	marriage,	 along	 with	 a	 tendency	 to	 compete	 rather	 than	 cooperate
with	others.



Mars	in	the	8th	House
This	 is	a	powerful	position	 for	Mars,	 the	8th	House	corresponding	 to	 the	 sign
Scorpio,	 which	Mars	 rules.	 The	 individual	 possesses	 very	 strong	 desires	 and
emotions,	 along	 with	 a	 powerful	 sex	 drive.	 He	 or	 she	 has	 great	 energy	 and
perseverance	 in	 accomplishing	 goals.	 There	 may	 well	 be	 an	 interest	 in	 the
occult,	psychic	phenomena,	and	spiritualism.	Mars	in	the	8th	House	can	indicate
an	 experience	 of	 violent	 death	 through	 war,	 accident,	 or	 strife.	 If	 Mars	 is
afflicted,	 sudden	or	violent	death	 is	possible,	 and	a	heavily	afflicted	Mars	can
indicate	 criminal	 tendencies.	 Actions	 are	 often	 carried	 out	 in	 secret,	 both	 for
good	and	bad	purposes.

Mars	in	the	9th	House
Here,	 there	will	be	a	strong	 interest	 in	 travel,	 sports,	and	social,	 religious,	and
philosophical	issues	and	causes.	These	people	are	often	passionate	crusaders	in
the	 name	of	 their	 ideals	 and	 beliefs,	 expressing	 themselves	 in	 terms	 of	 action
rather	than	with	mere	words.	If	Mars	is	well	aspected,	their	broad	understanding
and	concern	for	humanity	can	inspire	genuine	reform	for	the	good	of	all.	If	Mars
is	 afflicted,	 they	 can	 be	 fanatical,	 intolerant,	 and	 narrow-minded.	 These
individuals	are	seekers	of	adventure	and	experience,	which	often	leads	them	to
travel	 to	 foreign	 countries	 and	 explore	 the	 realms	 of	 higher	 learning	 and
philosophy.

Mars	in	the	10th	House
Mars	in	the	10th	House	imbues	these	individuals	with	a	strong	desire	for	power
and	fame.	They	are	gifted	with	initiative	and	executive	ability	that	enables	them
to	 achieve	 practical	 goals.	 Highly	 driven	 and	 competitive,	 they	 often	 achieve
fame	or	notoriety	in	their	chosen	fields.	If	Mars	is	afflicted,	they	are	capable	of
resorting	 to	 underhanded	means	 to	 obtain	 power	 or	 position,	with	 a	 complete
disregard	for	human	values.	A	tumultuous	fall	and	scandalous	loss	of	reputation
can	result	when	their	wrongdoings	are	almost	inevitably	exposed.

Mars	in	the	11th	House
The	 overriding	 concern	 and	 focus	 here	 will	 be	 friendships	 and	 group
associations	and	activities.	Often,	 these	 friends	and	associates	are	 instrumental
in	 assisting	 the	 individual	 in	 achieving	 business	 and	 professional	 goals.
Mechanical	ability	and	inventiveness	are	characteristic	of	Mars	in	this	house,	as
is	 activity	 in	 bringing	 about	 social	 reforms.	 If	Mars	 is	 afflicted,	 there	may	be



discontent	with	the	prevailing	social	order	and	an	iconoclastic	tendency	toward
revolution	merely	 for	 its	 own	 sake.	 Disagreements	 and	 conflicts	 with	 friends
and	group	associations	are	also	likely.	Impulsive	and	reckless	behavior	in	group
situations	 can	 lead	 to	 injury	 or	 death	 either	 to	 the	 individual	 or	 his	 or	 her
companions.

Mars	in	the	12th	House
Desires	 and	 actions	 are	 here	 strongly	 influenced	 by	 the	 unconscious.	 These
individuals	tend	to	be	highly	secretive	about	their	desires,	purposes,	and	actions.
Also,	they	may	have	secret	sexual	involvements.	Many	of	their	activities	will	be
carried	out	in	seclusion.	Often,	they	will	be	found	working	in	large	institutions
where	they	can	either	hide	or	lose	their	personal	identities.	If	Mars	is	afflicted,
there	can	be	secret	enemies,	involvement	in	clandestine	plots,	and	the	harboring
of	 secret	 animosities.	 There	 is	 also	 the	 danger	 of	 incarceration	 in	 a	 prison,
hospital,	or	mental	institution,	sometimes	for	political	reasons.

Aspects	of	Mars
Aspects	of	Mars,	the	sign,	house	position,	and	the	houses	Mars	rules,	show	how
the	self	is	expressed	through	dynamic	action,	whether	positive	or	negative,	and
the	areas	of	life	that	are	affected	by	such	action.	Mars	represents	willful	desire.
An	afflicted	Mars	indicates	a	bad	or	violent	temper	and	a	tendency	to	act	rashly
and	precipitously.	Martian	 energy	needs	 to	be	 constructively	 and	purposefully
channeled.	 Favorable	 aspects	 from	 Mercury,	 Jupiter,	 and	 Saturn	 offer	 great
assistance	 in	 this	 regard.	Mercury	 provides	mental	 clarity	 and	 insight;	 Saturn,
discipline	and	self-control;	and	Jupiter,	beneficence	and	altruism.	In	a	woman's
horoscope,	Mars	 indicates	 the	 type	of	man	she	will	be	attracted	 to.	 In	a	man's
horoscope,	it	represents	the	way	he	expresses	his	masculinity	in	order	to	attract
a	woman.

Mars	Conjunctions
Mars	conjunctions	indicate	that	direct	action	will	be	taken	in	the	affairs	ruled	by
the	planet	or	planets	forming	the	conjunction.	The	consequences	will	be	felt	in
the	 areas	 ruled	 by	 the	 sign	 and	 the	 houses	 which	 Mars	 and	 the	 conjuncting
planet(s)	 rule	 and	 occupy.	Mars	 confers	 courage,	 energy,	 and	 leadership	 and
much	 can	 be	 accomplished	 with	 this	 configuration.	 If	 the	 conjunction	 is
afflicted,	 the	 action	 taken	 can	 be	 rash	 and	 ill	 considered,	 with	 the	 inevitable
destructive	results.

Mars	Sextiles



Mars	 sextiles	 indicate	 that	 energy	 and	willpower	 will	 be	 applied	 intelligently
toward	some	constructive	purpose	and	that	there	will	be	many	opportunities	to
do	so.	The	mental	nature	of	the	sextile	is	implied	by	Gemini	and	the	3rd	House
and	Aquarius	and	the	11th	House,	which	give	clear	and	insightful	direction.	The
opportunities	provided	lead	to	experience,	which	brings	wisdom.	Obstacles	are
overcome	with	courage	and	initiative,	and	great	progress	is	made.

Mars	Squares
Mars	 squares	mean	 that	 the	 desire	 for	 action	will	 be	 frustrated	 and	 hindered.
Often	 this	 frustration	 can	 cause	 the	 individual	 to	 act	 rashly,	 with	 destructive
results.	 It	 is	 important,	 with	 this	 configuration,	 to	 learn	 patience	 and
consideration	 for	 others.	 Saturn's	 restriction	 of	Mars's	 energy	 can	 actually	 be
utilized	 intelligently	 to	 accomplish	 much,	 as	 a	 driving	 ambition	 is	 also	 an
attribute	 of	 a	Mars	 square.	 Those	 areas	 of	 life	 ruled	 by	 the	 planet	 or	 planets
forming	the	square,	and	 the	affairs	 ruled	by	 the	signs	and	houses	 in	which	 the
square	is	found,	will	be	the	most	profoundly	affected.

Mars	Trines
Mars	 trines	 indicate	 that	 the	 desire	 for	 action	 and	 the	 flow	 of	 energy	 is
unobstructed,	 allowing	 it	 to	 be	 easily	 directed	 toward	 some	 constructive	 use.
The	 individual	 will	 have	 a	 passionate	 love	 of	 life.	 Both	 exuberance	 and
accomplishment	will	be	expressed	 in	 the	affairs	 ruled	by	 the	planet	or	planets
that	form	the	trine	and	the	houses	and	signs	occupied	and	ruled	by	Mars.

Mars	Oppositions
Mars	 oppositions	 mean	 that	 the	 individual	 will	 tend	 to	 be	 competitive	 and
combative.	 Problems	 will	 be	 caused	 by	 rash,	 angry,	 and	 aggressive	 action
toward	others.	On	the	positive	side,	the	Mars	opposition	can	make	the	individual
capable	of	firm	and	energetic	action	in	partnerships	once	the	individual	has	been
forced	 to	 come	 to	 terms,	 often	 as	 the	 result	 of	 violent	 conflicts,	 with	 the
necessity	of	cooperation	if	anything	is	to	be	accomplished.



CHAPTER	10
Jupiter

Jupiter	 has	 long	 been	 associated	 with	 expansiveness:	 fortune	 or	 the
manifestation	 of	 positive	 karma,	 what	 we	 embrace	 in	 ideals	 and	 beliefs	 that
brings	 us	 to	 a	 higher	 consciousness,	 and	 how	 we	 reach	 out	 to	 and	 relate	 to
others.

Jupiter	in	the	Signs
The	sign	in	which	Jupiter	is	located	in	the	horoscope	tells	us	about	what	kinds	of
moral,	philosophical,	and	religious	beliefs	we	hold,	how	we	share	our	gifts	with
others,	and	the	goodwill	or	financial	benefits	we	are	likely	to	receive.

Jupiter	in	Aries
Jupiter	 in	 Aries	 confers	 great	 abilities	 for	 leadership	 and	 innovation	 in	 art,
philosophy,	 education,	 and	 other	 social,	 cultural,	 and	 spiritual	 endeavors.	 The
highest	 aspect	 of	Aries	 is	 the	 self	manifested	 as	 pure	 creative	 spirit,	 the	 I	 am
what	am,	the	burning	bush	that	does	not	perish,	and	Jupiter	in	this	sign	confers
great	 powers	 of	 creative	 and	 spiritual	 regeneration	 along	 with	 an	 acute
understanding	and	respect	for	it.	These	individuals	have	a	profound	faith	in	the
possibility	of	personal	and	social	rebirth	into	a	better	way	of	life,	of	being	and
becoming.	They	have	great	energy	and	are	inspired	and	inspiring,	arousing	those
around	them	to	confident	and	enthusiastic	action.
Their	 initiative	 and	 inspired	 religious	 and	 philosophical	 leadership	 can,

however,	also	make	them	egotistical	and	selfimportant,	which	can	also	arouse
resentment	 in	others.	Their	faith,	 though,	gives	 them	the	courage	to	undertake
endeavors	that	others	would	not	dare	to	attempt.	Their	positive	efforts,	even	if
they	 do	 not	 attain	 their	 seemingly	 unreachable	 goals,	 more	 often	 than	 not
produce	 something	 good	 that	 in	 turn	 leads	 to	 some	 form	 of	 evolutionary
development,	Jupiter	being	 the	planet	associated	with	 the	principle	of	growth.
When	Jupiter	 is	afflicted	 in	Aries,	 there	can	be	a	highly	exaggerated	sense	of
selfimportance,	 actions	 can	 be	 rash	 and	 impulsive,	 and	 carelessness	 and
overconfidence	can	lead	to	losses	in	business	and	friendship.

Jupiter	in	Taurus
Jupiter	in	Taurus	indicates	the	ability	to	attract	wealth,	along	with	an	awareness



of	 the	correct	and	beneficial	use	of	money	and	material	 resources.	Money	and
material	goods	are	regarded	as	a	form	of	energy	or	sustenance	that	simply	flows
from	one	person	 to	 the	other	 for	 the	good	of	 all,	 like	 the	water	of	 life.	Those
with	 Jupiter	 in	 Taurus	 need	 to	 learn	 not	 only	 generosity	 but	 wisdom	 and
discrimination	 in	 investing	money	 so	 that	 it	 be	 used	 in	 the	most	 efficient	 and
constructive	 way.	 These	 individuals	 are	 concerned	 with	 enjoying	 the	 good
things	 in	 life	 and	 have	 a	 strong	 desire	 to	 share	 the	 wealth	 they	 naturally
accumulate	as	a	matter	of	principle.
If	Jupiter	is	afflicted,	expensive	tastes	and	indulgence	can	lead	to	dissipation

of	 resources	 and	 physical	 degeneration.	 They	 can	 become	 indifferent	 to	 and
neglectful	of	the	physical	needs	of	others,	leading	to	jealousy	and	resentment	in
those	less	fortunate.	In	forgetting	that	honor	and	prestige	lie	not	in	wealth	but	in
what	 is	 done	 with	 it,	 the	 pride	 and	 sense	 of	 superiority	 that	 can	 come	 with
financial	 success	 can	 lead	 to	 their	 downfall,	 and	 extravagance	 can	 result	 in
being	buried	in	debt	and	trouble	with	creditors.

Jupiter	in	Gemini
Here	is	found	a	broad	intellectual	understanding	and	love	of	philosophy	and	the
ideas	 that	have	shaped	history,	 religion,	 law,	and	education.	These	 individuals
are	mentally	 and	physically	 restless	 and	are	prone	 to	much	 travel	 and	delving
into	many	areas	of	study.	When	negative,	 they	can	come	across	as	 intellectual
dilettantes	 whose	 knowledge	 is	 wide	 but	 superficial	 and	 lacking	 in	 real	 or
practical	 experience.	 This	 theoretical	 or	 book	 knowledge	 can	 produce	 a
pretentious	 intellectual	 snob.	 On	 the	 more	 positive	 side,	 their	 multifaceted
intellectual	activities	can	produce	an	acute	understanding	of	social,	political,	and
historical	trends.	Jupiter	in	Gemini	confers	strong	abilities	in	writing,	teaching,
and	lecturing.

Jupiter	in	Cancer
Jupiter	 in	Cancer	often	 indicates	a	good	family	background,	not	necessarily	of
wealth	or	 standing,	but	one	 in	which	moral	 and	 religious	principles,	kindness,
and	 generosity	 are	 instilled	 from	 an	 early	 age.	 Cancer	 represents	 the	 parents,
especially	 the	 mother,	 and	 it	 is	 from	 the	 parents	 that	 such	 basic	 values	 are
learned.	Those	with	 Jupiter	 in	Cancer	 seek	 to	 establish	 a	 secure,	 comfortable,
and	 friendly	home	environment	 for	 themselves	and	 their	 loved	ones.	They	are
kind	 and	 generous	 to	 their	 family	 and	 friends.	 These	 individuals	 are	 imbued
with	a	strong	maternal	instinct	and	may	be	inclined	to	want	to	mother	everyone.
They	have	a	great	love	of	good	food	and	are	often	good	cooks,	which	can	imply



a	tendency	to	overindulge	in	the	name	of	the	palate.	They	tend	to	be	emotionally
idealistic,	with	a	true	belief	in	human	kindness	and	honesty.	They	often	receive
financial	support	or	inheritance	from	their	parents	or	other	family	members	and
can	become	wealthy	 in	 the	 later	half	of	 their	 lives.	 If	Jupiter	 is	afflicted,	 there
can	be	overindulgence	in	food	and	material	comforts,	an	unhealthily	close	tie	to
parents,	oppressive	mother-love,	and	maudlin	sentimentality.

Jupiter	in	Leo
Those	 with	 Jupiter	 in	 Leo	 are	 blessed	 with	 abundant	 energy,	 strong
constitutions,	 optimism,	 and	 self-confidence.	 Dignified	 and	 inspiring	 leaders,
they	 are	 benevolent	 and	 generous,	 although	 they	 demand	 admiration	 and
appreciation	in	return.	If	Jupiter	is	afflicted,	conceit	and	egotism	can	make	them
vain	 and	 arrogant.	 If	 positive,	 there	 can	 be	 great	 generosity,	 honesty,
expansiveness,	reliability,	and	steadfastness.	These	people	like	to	do	things	on	a
lavish	or	opulent	scale.	They	have	a	 love	of	grand	parties,	parades,	pageantry,
and	drama.	Radiating	warmth,	generosity,	and	affection,	their	unselfishness	can
win	the	admiration	and	love	of	others,	often	enabling	them	to	find	fulfillment	in
romance.	 Jupiter	 in	 Leo	 can	 confer	 honor	 and	 prestige	 that	 is	 very	 much
deserved.	These	people	have	a	natural	and	genuine	love	of	children.	If	Jupiter	is
well	 aspected,	 their	 offspring	 are	 likely	 to	 achieve	 honors	 and	 distinctions	 of
their	 own.	 Jupiter	 in	Leo	 can	give	 an	 aptitude	 for	 gambling	 and	 stock	market
speculation,	along	with	business	 success	 in	entertainment,	 the	arts,	 sports,	 and
education.	 If	 Jupiter	 is	 afflicted,	 unwise	 gambling	 and	 speculations	 can	 cause
financial	ruin,	and	there	can	be	disappointments	and	losses	in	love	and	children.

Jupiter	in	Virgo
Here,	 honesty	 and	 integrity	 in	 work	 and	 business	 can	 make	 for	 congenial
relationships	 with	 coworkers,	 employees,	 and	 employers.	 The	 working
conditions	they	find	themselves	in	are	usually	pleasant,	and	they	tend	to	be	paid
well	 for	 their	 services.	 Their	 moral	 and	 religious	 beliefs	 are	 based	 on	 the
concept	 of	 service,	 and	 often	 they	 will	 be	 interested	 in	 charitable	 pursuits
involving	 mental	 and	 physical	 health,	 hospitals,	 and	 educational	 institutions.
Ideals	are	of	little	value	if	they	do	not	have	practical	application,	and	this	basic
realism	 makes	 them	 conservative	 in	 their	 social	 and	 moral	 views,	 similar	 to
Jupiter	 in	 Taurus	 or	 Capricorn.	 They	 zealously	 demand	 absolute	 integrity	 in
every	 detail	 and	 are	 able	 to	 readily	 distinguish	 truth	 from	 error	 or	 falsity.
However,	 their	 moralistic	 concern	 for	 perfection	 can	 suffer	 from	 a	 lack	 of
relative	perspective	and	make	mountains	out	of	molehills.	Order	and	cleanliness



are	 extremely	 important	 to	 them,	 being	 representative	 of	moral	 integrity,	 and
they	disapprove	strongly	of	sloppiness	 in	dress,	work,	and	housekeeping.	Like
Venus	in	Virgo,	however,	if	Jupiter	is	here	afflicted,	they	can	have	the	opposite
reaction.	 An	 afflicted	 Jupiter	 can	 also	 cause	 unstable	 employment	 with	 a
tendency	 to	 drift	 from	 job	 to	 job,	 laziness,	 and	 dissatisfaction	 with	 working
conditions,	employers,	and	coworkers.

Jupiter	in	Libra
Jupiter	 in	 Libra	 has	 an	 overriding	 concern	 for	 justice	 and	moral	 principles	 in
partnerships,	 marriage,	 friendships,	 and	 other	 close	 personal	 relationships.
Marriage	 will	 tend	 to	 be	 based	 on	 shared	 spiritual	 values	 and	 a	 sense	 of
cooperation	that	go	beyond	sexual	attraction.	Their	religious	and	moral	concepts
are	 based	 on	 love	 and	 a	 sense	 of	 fair	 play	 and	 social	 harmony.	 Social,
philosophical,	 and	 religious	 values	 are	 influenced	 by	 the	 spouse	 and	 close
friends,	and	these	individuals	equally	influence	the	attitudes	of	their	friends	and
associates.	Their	generosity	and	consideration	of	others	mean	they	are	popular
and	 well	 liked	 and	 enable	 them	 to	 deal	 well	 with	 the	 public,	 making	 them
excellent	mediators,	psychologists,	 fundraisers,	diplomats,	and	peacemakers.	 If
Jupiter	is	here	afflicted,	they	can	be	prone	to	making	moral	decisions	for	others
and	desire	to	be	all	things	to	all	people,	resulting	in	double	standards	on	many
issues	and	promising	more	than	can	be	delivered	in	order	to	gain	approval.	They
can	expect	too	many	favors	from	others	and	initiate	too	many	close	personal	ties
at	any	given	time,	making	those	with	whom	they	are	involved	suspect	them	of
disloyalty.	This	often	 leads	 to	 sexual	 treachery	 and	betrayal	 from	members	of
the	 opposite	 sex	 as	 a	 result	 of	 jealousy	 and	 vindictiveness	 at	 feeling	 that	 the
personal	 consideration	 that	 is	 their	 due	 has	 been	 ignored.	 If	 Jupiter	 is	 heavily
afflicted	 in	 Libra,	 there	 may	 be	 lawsuits	 over	 unfulfilled	 legal	 and	 financial
commitments	related	to	business,	property,	or	marriage.

Jupiter	in	Scorpio
Jupiter	 in	 Scorpio	 suggests	 strong	 dealings	 with	 joint	 or	 corporate	 finances,
insurance,	taxes,	legacies,	and	the	like.	These	individuals	will	also	be	interested
in	 the	 occult,	 the	 arcane,	 and	 mystical	 aspects	 of	 religion,	 the	 afterlife,	 and
communication	 with	 the	 spiritual	 world.	 They	 can	 also	 be	 passionate	 and
uncompromising	 when	 it	 comes	 to	 religious	 beliefs	 and	 moral	 standards	 of
conduct,	 which	 can	 sometimes	 pit	 them	 against	 powerful	 and	 bitter	 enemies.
They	are	prone	to	acquiring,	as	if	by	magic,	secret	information	about	the	private
lives	of	others	and	can	themselves	have	friendships	or	other	relationships	based



on	hidden	motivations.	There	 is	a	chance	of	 receiving	 inheritances	as	payback
for	favors	rendered.	An	afflicted	Jupiter	in	Scorpio,	however,	can	indicate	legal
battles	 over	 inheritances,	 alimony,	 insurance,	 taxes,	 expenditures,	 and	 other
related	matters,	 and	unwise	 investments	 in	 stocks	or	partnerships	can	 result	 in
financial	losses.

Jupiter	in	Sagittarius
Jupiter	in	Sagittarius	points	to	a	love	of	philosophy,	education,	religion,	travel,
and	foreign	cultures.	These	individuals	have	a	strong	need	for	a	moral	system	of
some	kind	 that	 governs	 personal	 conduct,	 relationships,	 and	way	of	 life,	 be	 it
religious,	 political,	 or	 philosophical.	 This	 desire	 for	 behavior	 and	 attitudes	 to
conform	to	an	objective	or	impartial	set	of	principles	often	brings	them	respect
and	admiration,	even	from	those	who	might	be	considered	their	enemies.	They
will	 often	 feel	 compelled	 to	 convert	others	 to	 their	way	of	 thinking.	They	 see
acceptance	of	a	belief	system	or	moral	code	as	a	means	of	being	able	to	operate
within	a	larger	social	context	in	which	the	rules	are	understood.	They	will	have
a	strong	interest	in	the	ideas	that	have	shaped	history	and	society.
If	Jupiter	is	afflicted,	these	people	can	be	narrow-minded,	dogmatic,	and	self-

righteous,	expecting	all	to	conform	to	their	beliefs	and	being	intolerant	of	those
who	don't.	Personal	egotism	masked	as	religious,	national,	or	racial	chauvinism
is	 their	 unconscious	 defense	 mechanism	 against	 the	 unknown	 or
psychologically	 and	 socially	 threatening.	 If	 Jupiter	 is	 heavily	 afflicted,	 these
people	 can	have	 a	 fanatical	 and	 superstitious	 adherence	 to	dogmatic	 religious
beliefs.
If	positively	aspected,	 Jupiter	 in	Sagittarius	gives	 an	 innate	 respect	 for	 and

understanding	of	other	belief	systems	and	an	almost	prophetic	 insight	 into	 the
future.

Jupiter	in	Capricorn
Here	 there	 will	 be	 an	 overriding	 concern	 with	 the	 so-called	 letter	 of	 the	 law
rather	than	with	its	spirit.	If	well	aspected,	Jupiter	in	Capricorn	can	confer	great
integrity	 in	 moral	 conduct	 and	 business	 and	 political	 ethics,	 especially	 in
relation	 to	 the	 responsibilities	 of	 high	 office.	 These	 people	 are	 generally
conservative	 in	 outlook	 and	 often	 acquire	 positions	 of	 political	 or	 economic
responsibility	 in	 which	 they	 tend	 to	 show	 prudence,	 although	 they	 may	 be
somewhat	lacking	in	imagination,	innovation,	and	creativity.	They	have	a	strong
drive	to	attain	power	and	status,	which	can	be	based	on	either	personal	ambition
or	an	acute	sense	of	social	responsibility,	or	a	combination	of	both.	Great	wealth



is	 often	 obtained	 as	 a	 result.	 In	 their	 later	 years,	 these	 individuals	 can	 often
appear	as	cold	and	austere	personalities,	having	sacrificed	or	neglected	much	of
their	 personal	 and	 family	 lives	 in	 the	 name	 of	 their	 careers	 and	 hiding	 their
frustrations	and	loneliness	behind	a	mask	of	dignity	and	reserve.	They	have	an
abhorrence	 of	waste	 and	 extravagance,	 and	 if	 Jupiter	 is	 afflicted,	 they	 can	 be
miserly	to	a	ridiculous	extreme	in	certain	areas	and	overly	extravagant	in	others.

Jupiter	in	Aquarius
Those	with	Jupiter	in	Aquarius	insist	on	social,	religious,	and	moral	values	that
are	 impartial,	 democratic,	 and	 universal.	 They	 are	 open	 to	 all	 of	 humanity
without	 biases	 toward	 class,	 race,	 or	 religion	 and	 are	 intolerant	 only	 of
intolerance.	 Tolerance,	 acceptance,	 respect,	 and	 cooperation	 are	 for	 them	 the
essentials	 of	 any	 social	 order	 and	 interaction.	 They	 realize	 that	 without
differences	and	variety,	 the	great,	beautiful,	and	complex	 tapestry	of	humanity
and	 culture	 would	 not	 be	 possible.	 Many	 social	 and	 religious	 pioneers	 have
Jupiter	 in	 Aquarius.	 If	 Jupiter	 is	 afflicted,	 these	 individuals	 can	 advocate	 or
practice	revolutionary	concepts	that	are	impractical	or	merely	iconoclastic;	they
may	be	too	casual	and	unreliable	in	their	relationships	with	others	and	generally
scattered	and	undisciplined	with	their	energies.

Jupiter	in	Pisces
Jupiter	in	Pisces	confers	emotional	depth,	understanding,	and	compassion,	along
with	 mystical	 tendencies	 and	 deeply	 felt	 religious	 convictions.	 There	 is,
however,	 the	 danger	 that	 others	 will	 take	 advantage	 of	 their	 sympathy,
compassion,	 and	 generosity,	 and	 it	 is	 often	 necessary	 for	 Jupiter	 in	 Pisces	 to
learn	 discrimination	 and	 that	 others	 must,	 at	 a	 certain	 point,	 assume
responsibility	 for	 their	 own	 lives	 and	 learn	 their	 own	 life	 lessons.	Along	with
their	mystical	inclinations,	these	individuals	can	have	acute	psychic	abilities	and
an	intuitive	perception	of	spiritual	realms	that	can	result	in	direct	experiences	of
metaphysical	 realities.	 If	 Jupiter	 is	 afflicted	 in	 Pisces,	 there	 is	 the	 danger	 of
cultism	 and	 “guru-worship”	 in	 the	 name	 of	 sublimating	 the	 self	 for	 a	 higher
purpose	as	well	 as	 to	confer	personal	 spiritual	or	 religious	 status.	An	afflicted
Jupiter	 can	 also	 indicate	 a	 parasitic	 nature	 that	 lives	 off	 the	 charity	 of	 friends
and	social	institutions.

Jupiter	in	the	Houses
Jupiter	in	the	houses	shows	those	areas	of	life	in	which	we	express	our	religious
and	philosophical	concerns.	This	is	the	area	in	which	we	share	our	material	and



spiritual	resources,	thus	receiving	good	fortune	in	return.	The	house	placement
indicates	where	that	“bread	cast	upon	the	waters”	reaps	its	rewards.	It	shows	the
realm	in	which	we	are	at	our	most	expansive,	positive,	and	optimistic.

Jupiter	in	the	1st	House
Jupiter	 in	 the	1st	House	 indicates	 individuals	who	are	optimistic	and	sociable.
They	are	honest,	trustworthy,	benevolent,	and	amicable	and	therefore	tend	to	be
very	popular.	Their	optimism	and	confidence	 inspire	 the	same	 in	others.	They
are	dignified	 in	 their	bearing	and	manner,	 especially	 in	 their	 later	years.	They
will	manifest	strong	social,	religious,	or	educational	leadership	abilities	and	like
to	 be	 regarded	 as	 authorities	 within	 their	 chosen	 fields.	 They	 have	 strong
religious	 and	 moral	 convictions,	 often	 with	 deep	 spiritual	 insight.	 Generally,
they	 are	 fortunate	 throughout	 their	 lives.	 Often,	 they	 appear	 to	 be	 blessed	 by
some	kind	of	divine	protection	or	guardian	angel,	who	often	appears	right	at	the
eleventh	hour.	 If	 Jupiter	 is	 afflicted,	 they	may	have	a	 tendency	 to	grow	 fat	 in
middle	 or	 old	 age	 as	 well	 as	 self-indulgent,	 with	 a	 highly	 inflated	 sense	 of
selfimportance.

Jupiter	in	the	2nd	House
Here	there	is	substantial	business	ability	and	good	fortune	regarding	money	and
property.	 Those	 with	 Jupiter	 in	 the	 2nd	 House	 often	 engage	 in	 businesses
involving	 real	 estate,	 food,	 domestic	 products,	 fundraising,	 publishing,	 and
travel.	 Other	 professional	 pursuits	 may	 be	 related	 to	 psychology,	 education,
hospitals,	and	other	similar	institutions.	If	Jupiter	is	afflicted,	money	is	likely	to
disappear	 as	 fast	 as	 it	 appears,	 and	debts	 can	be	 incurred	due	 to	overreaching
and	lack	of	foresight	in	business	dealings.

Jupiter	in	the	3rd	House
Jupiter	 in	 the	 3rd	 House	 makes	 for	 congenial	 relations	 with	 siblings	 and
neighbors.	 These	 individuals	 are	 optimistic	 and	 philosophical,	 with	 a	 strong
intellectual	interest	in	trends	in	social	thought	and	communication,	especially	as
expressed	 in	speech	and	writing.	They	will	also	be	fond	of	 travel.	 If	Jupiter	 is
afflicted,	 there	 can	 be	 conflict	with	 siblings	 and	 neighbors	 and,	 as	 a	 result	 of
recklessness,	a	danger	of	accidents	while	traveling.

Jupiter	in	the	4th	House
Jupiter	here	is	an	indicator	of	congenial	family	relations	and	domestic	comfort
and	security.	These	 individuals	 tend	to	come	from	families	 that	are	financially



secure,	with	good	standing	 in	 the	community,	and	 thus	enjoy	many	social	and
economic	benefits.	There	will	be	good	fortune	in	the	individual's	second	half	of
life,	 with	 the	 likelihood	 of	 inheriting	 property	 from	 parents	 or	 relatives.	 If
Jupiter	 is	 afflicted,	 family	 members	 may	 become	 burdens	 emotionally,	 or
financially,	or	both.

Jupiter	in	the	5th	House
Here	 there	will	 be	 creative	 involvement	 in	 the	 arts,	 sports,	 education,	 and	 all
aspects	 of	 dealing	with	 children.	 These	 people	 have	 a	 particular	 fondness	 for
children,	making	them	good	teachers,	counselors,	and	advocates,	and	their	own
progeny	usually	achieve	honor	and	distinction	 in	 their	own	 right,	having	been
nurtured	well.	Jupiter	in	the	5th	House,	unless	badly	afflicted,	usually	indicates
good	fortune	and	happiness	in	romance,	often	with	someone	of	wealth	or	status.
Business	 endeavors	 can	 often	 involve	 the	 stock	market,	 investments,	 the	 arts,
entertainment,	or	education.	Many	movie	and	theatrical	producers	have	Jupiter
in	 the	 5th	House.	An	 afflicted	 Jupiter	 can	mean	 losses	 resulting	 from	 unwise
speculations	or	investments.	Like	Jupiter	in	the	2nd	House,	there	is	a	tendency
for	these	people	to	overextend	themselves	and	invite	financial	disaster	(brought
about,	perhaps,	by	Jupiter's	corulership	of	Pisces,	the	sign	most	associated	with
karma).

Jupiter	in	the	6th	House
With	Jupiter	in	the	6th	House,	the	house	associated	with	Virgo,	there	will	be	an
active	and	dedicated	 interest	 in	 service,	driven	by	a	desire	 to	 serve	others	and
contribute	to	society	in	a	practical	and	constructive	way.	Work	related	to	mental
and	physical	healing	can	be	fulfilling	here,	for	these	individuals	tend	to	have	an
innate	 understanding	 of	 mental	 and	 emotional	 states	 as	 they	 affect	 physical
health.	 Usually,	 they	 are	 well	 liked	 and	 respected	 in	 their	 work	 and	 enjoy
congenial	 relations	 with	 coworkers,	 employees,	 and	 employers.	 If	 Jupiter	 is
afflicted,	the	opposite	will	be	the	case.	If	Jupiter	is	badly	afflicted,	the	individual
may	be	subject	to	laziness	and	liver	problems	due	to	overindulgence.

Jupiter	in	the	7th	House
Here,	openness	and	friendliness,	along	with	a	sound	moral	sense	in	relationships
with	others,	often	lead	to	good	fortune	through	marriage	and	other	partnerships.
Those	with	Jupiter	in	the	7th	House	have	a	strong	sense	of	justice;	they	are	fair
and	 honest	 in	 their	 dealings	with	 others	 and	 expect	 the	 same	 in	 return.	 They
often	marry	someone	of	wealth	or	social	standing,	and	their	moral	and	spiritual



values	regarding	relationships	often	lead	to	a	stable	and	lasting	union.	Business
partnerships	also	prove	fruitful,	owing	to	good	judgment	in	choosing	associates.
These	 people	 will	 have	 strong	 abilities	 in	 the	 fields	 of	 law,	 public	 relations,
sales,	 negotiation,	 and	mediation.	 If	 Jupiter	 is	 afflicted,	 they	may	 be	 naive	 or
gullible	in	partnerships	and	business	dealings,	making	them	easy	victims	for	con
artists	 and	opportunistic	 predators.	They	 can	 also	have	 a	 tendency	 to	 take	 too
much	for	granted	and	expect	too	much	from	others.

Jupiter	in	the	8th	House
Jupiter	 in	 the	 8th	 House	 indicates	 a	 strong	 chance	 of	 benefits	 through
inheritance,	 insurance,	 and	 joint	 finances.	 On	 the	 other	 hand,	 if	 Jupiter	 is
afflicted,	 conflict	 and	 litigation	 involving	 the	 same	 may	 occur.	 These
individuals	 are	 often	 attracted	 to	 businesses	 involving	 insurance,	 taxes,	 and
corporate	 fundraising.	 They	will	 have	 a	 strong	 interest	 in	 life	 after	 death	 and
other	 matters	 pertaining	 to	 spiritualism.	 Unless	 Jupiter	 is	 afflicted,	 these
individuals	can	look	forward	to	a	death	in	later	life	that	is	peaceful	and	brought
about	by	natural	causes.

Jupiter	in	the	9th	House
Those	with	Jupiter	in	the	9th	House	have	an	innate	love	of	philosophy,	religion,
and	 higher	 education.	 They	 make	 excellent	 teachers	 and	 are	 often	 associated
with	institutions	of	higher	learning.	If	Jupiter	is	afflicted,	they	may	be	hindered
in	 their	 ability	 to	 acquire	 the	 education	 they	 desire,	 or	 they	may	 be	 lazy	 and
undisciplined	 or	 indifferent	 about	 the	 knowledge	 and	 qualifications	 they	 have
attained.	Generally,	 they	 are	 broad-minded,	 learned,	 and	 tolerant.	 If	 Jupiter	 is
afflicted,	 they	can	be	narrow-minded,	dogmatic,	 and	extremist	 in	 their	beliefs.
These	individuals	will	have	a	great	love	of	travel	and	an	intense	curiosity	about
foreign	cultures.

Jupiter	in	the	10th	House
Jupiter	 in	 the	10th	House	indicates	professional	achievement,	prominence,	and
acclaim,	 usually	 in	 the	 later	 part	 of	 life.	 These	 people	 are	 consummate
professionals,	 known	 for	 their	personal	 standards	of	 excellence.	Religious	 and
moral	principles	also	govern	their	business	dealings.	With	Jupiter	in	this	house,
the	 individual	 has	 considerable	 professional	 ambition,	 along	with	 honesty	 and
reliability.	Developing	a	highly	dignified	manner	as	he	or	she	grows	older,	this
individual	 is	 likely	 to	 acquire	 wealth	 during	 his	 or	 her	 later	 years.	 This	 is
particularly	 true	 if	 Jupiter	 is	 in	 an	 earth	 sign.	 Like	 Jupiter	 in	 Capricorn,	 the



individual's	 domestic	 life	 can	 suffer	 as	 a	 result	 of	 so	 much	 time	 and	 energy
being	 devoted	 in	 the	 pursuit	 of	 a	 career.	 If	 Jupiter	 is	 afflicted,	 hypocrisy	 and
vainglory	can	lead	to	downfall	and	disgrace.

Jupiter	in	the	11th	House
Jupiter	 in	 the	 11th	 House	 achieves	 its	 goals	 through	 friendships	 and	 social
relationships	 based	 on	 shared	 interests	 and	 concerns.	 Favors	 are	 rendered	 and
returned,	as	these	people	are	kind,	well	liked,	and	tend	to	attract	friends	who	are
generous	and	helpful.	A	spirit	of	mutual	cooperation	and	consideration	enables
them	to	successfully	carry	out	large	and	constructive	enterprises	to	the	benefit	of
all.	 Business	 may	 relate	 to	 social	 organizations,	 science,	 and	 inventions.	 If
Jupiter	is	afflicted,	 the	individual's	attitudes	and	goals	may	be	impractical,	and
friendships	may	be	based	on	selfish	or	ulterior	motives.	There	can	be	a	tendency
to	use	people	while	neglecting	one's	personal	responsibilities	toward	them.

Jupiter	in	the	12th	House
Here,	there	is	a	need	for	seclusion,	solitude,	introspection,	and	meditation	in	the
search	 for	 life's	 spiritual	 truths.	 Intuition	 and	 mysticism	 tend	 to	 be	 prevalent
with	Jupiter	 in	 this	house.	There	 is	a	deep	empathy	and	sympathy	 for	 the	 less
fortunate	 and	 humanity	 in	 general,	 and	 these	 individuals	 gain	 emotional
satisfaction	from	helping	others.	They	are	natural	peacemakers,	with	the	ability
to	make	 friends	 out	 of	 enemies.	 They	 can	 often	 be	 found	working	 quietly	 in
large	 institutions	 like	 hospitals,	 asylums,	 universities,	 and	 churches.	 Humility
and	 sincerity	 are	 typical	 of	 Jupiter	 in	 this	 house.	 If	 Jupiter	 is	 afflicted,	 the
individual	can	suffer	from	neurosis,	a	martyr	complex,	unrealistic	idealism,	and
a	tendency	to	escape	into	fantasy.	The	afflicted	12th-House	Jupiter	person	can
refuse	to	take	responsibility	for	his	or	her	own	welfare	and	depend	on	charitable
institutions	 or	 the	 generosity	 of	 friends	 for	 support,	 basically	 becoming	 a
parasite.	 With	 a	 well-aspected	 Jupiter,	 the	 person	 may	 tend	 to	 receive
unexpected	 aid	 in	 times	 of	 crisis	 as	 karmic	 payback	 for	 his	 or	 her	 own	 good
deeds.

Aspects	of	Jupiter
Aspects	of	 Jupiter,	along	with	 the	house,	 sign	position,	and	 the	houses	Jupiter
rules,	show	how	and	where	individual	growth	and	expansion,	in	the	process	of
becoming	 or	 selfactualization,	 takes	 place.	 With	 easy	 aspects,	 we	 gain	 the
cooperation	of	others	based	on	shared	social,	philosophical,	moral,	and	religious
attitudes	with	 the	 goal	 of	 providing	 for	 the	 collective	 good	 of	 society.	 Jupiter



indicates	the	way	in	which	we	give	to	the	collective	in	order	to	take	from	it.	The
planets	aspecting	Jupiter	indicate	how	we	cooperate	and	contribute	to	the	greater
social	structure	and	serve	the	general	welfare.	If	Jupiter	is	afflicted	with	difficult
aspects,	 we	 may	 experience	 difficulty	 cooperating	 with	 commonly	 accepted
modes	of	social	behavior,	or	we	may	need	to	examine	our	motives	for	doing	so.

Jupiter	Conjunctions
Jupiter	 conjunctions	 indicate	 individuals	 who	 are	 benevolent	 and	 generous,
imbued	 with	 optimism,	 goodwill,	 and	 a	 constructive	 awareness	 of	 life's
possibilities.	Thus	they	readily	gain	the	support	and	cooperation	of	others.	The
affairs	 ruled	by	 the	planets	 forming	 the	conjunction,	 and	 the	houses	and	 signs
the	planets	occupy	and	rule,	show	where	increase	and	good	fortune	reside	in	the
individual's	life.

Jupiter	Sextiles
Jupiter	 sextiles	 show	 that	 there	 will	 be	 opportunities	 for	 mental	 growth	 and
development	regarding	the	affairs	governed	by	the	planets	in	the	sextile,	as	well
as	the	signs	and	houses	which	Jupiter	and	the	planet(s)	occupy	and	rule.	These
individuals	 will	 work	 well	 with	 groups	 and	 have	 good	 relationships	 with
siblings	and	neighbors.	They	will	profit	 through	education,	 travel,	writing,	and
communication	in	general.

Jupiter	Squares
With	 Jupiter	 squares,	 too	 much	 ambition	 can	 lead	 to	 failure	 as	 a	 result	 of
attempting	 more	 than	 can	 be	 accomplished.	Moderation	 and	 careful	 planning
need	to	be	exercised	in	 the	affairs	ruled	by	Jupiter	and	the	squaring	planets	as
well	as	the	signs	and	houses	that	they	occupy	and	rule.

Jupiter	Trines
Jupiter	trines	point	to	good	fortune,	unimpeded	progress,	and	the	rewards	of	past
actions,	all	 found,	naturally,	 in	 the	areas	of	 life	 ruled	by	 the	 trining	planets	or
planets	and	the	signs	and	houses	that	Jupiter	and	the	planet(s)	occupy	and	rule.

Jupiter	Oppositions
Jupiter	 oppositions	 indicate	 a	 tendency	 to	 demand	 too	much	 from	 others	 and
take	 too	 much	 for	 granted,	 resulting	 in	 relationship	 problems	 involving	 the
planet	or	planets	that	oppose	Jupiter,	and	the	signs	and	houses	that	Jupiter	and



the	 planet(s)	 occupy	 and	 rule.	 The	 individual's	 jocular	 countenance	 and
grandiose	schemes	will,	in	the	end,	not	be	greeted	kindly	by	those	who	feel	they
have	paid	too	high	a	price	to	go	along	with	them.



CHAPTER	11
Saturn

The	 mythology	 of	 Saturn,	 or	 Cronus,	 is	 full	 of	 dark	 symbolism	 generally
associated	with	the	struggle	of	differentiation	involved	in	becoming	a	unique	yet
respected	individual.	However,	if	we	accept	Saturn	as	the	Cosmic	Teacher	and
pay	 attention	 to	 his	 lessons,	we	may	be	 better	 equipped	 to	 carry	 our	 burdens.
Saturn	is	the	strongest	indicator	of	the	career	path	upon	which	we	are	likely	to
embark.

Saturn	in	the	Signs
Saturn	 in	 the	 signs	 shows	 the	 nature	 of	 our	 responsibilities	 and	 the	 kind	 of
discipline	we	must	achieve	in	order	to	work	positively	within	life's	limitations,
which	actually	give	embodiment	and	structure	to	our	highest	aspirations.

Saturn	in	Aries
These	individuals	will	be	compelled	by	circumstances	 to	acquire	 initiative	and
self-reliance	 in	 providing	 themselves	with	 the	 practical	 necessities	 of	 life.	 By
being	obliged	 to	develop	 their	own	resources,	 they	 in	 turn	develop	strength	of
will	 and	 character.	 Saturn	 represents	 the	 laws	 of	 cause	 and	 effect,	 the
consequences	 of	 action,	 and	Aries,	 the	 primary	 impulse	 to	 action.	 In	Aries,	 a
new	cycle	of	experience	 is	 just	beginning,	and	consequences	are	yet	 to	be	 felt
and	 their	 lessons	 learned.	 As	 a	 result,	 these	 individuals	 may	 be	 lacking	 in
sufficient	 awareness	 of	 social	 justice	 and	 the	 rights	 of	 others	 in	 terms	 of	 the
effects	of	their	actions,	as	well	as	the	effects	of	those	actions	upon	themselves.
On	 the	other	hand,	Saturn	 in	Aries	can	provide	 resourcefulness,	 initiative,	and
creativity,	enabling	these	individuals	 to	bring	new	concepts	and	innovations	to
their	 chosen	 fields.	 Albert	 Einstein	 is	 a	 supreme	 example	 of	 a	 wellaspected
Saturn	 in	 Aries.	 If	 Saturn	 is	 afflicted,	 these	 people	 can	 be	 self-centered	 and
defensive,	assuming	that	others	are	opposed	to	them	and	making	it	difficult	for
them	 to	 communicate	 and	 cooperate.	 Being	 overly	 concerned	 with	 their	 own
ambition	 and	 security,	 they	 can	 tend	 to	 overlook	 the	 needs	 and	 concerns	 of
others.	These	flaws	can	impose	strong	limitations	on	their	success.	They	like	to
do	things	alone	without	asking	for	or	relying	on	the	assistance	of	others.	Saturn
in	 Aries	 can	 cause	 a	 tendency	 to	 worry	 and	 headaches	 resulting	 from	 a
restriction	of	the	blood	flow	to	the	brain.

Saturn	in	Taurus



Saturn	in	Taurus
With	Saturn	 in	Taurus,	 these	 individuals	 have	 a	 strong	 need	 for	 financial	 and
emotional	security.	Material	possessions,	upon	which	 their	sense	of	security	 is
often	based,	are	only	acquired	through	discipline	and	hard	work.	A	wellaspected
Saturn	bestows	patience,	endurance,	practicality,	and	an	adherence	to	principles.
At	around	the	age	of	twenty-nine	or	thirty,	these	individuals	will	seek	financial
and	 domestic	 stability,	 which	 their	 sense	 of	 well-being	 depends	 upon.	 They
often	enter	such	professions	as	banking,	business	management,	and	insurance.	If
Saturn	is	afflicted,	they	can	be	excessively	materialistic,	obstinate,	and	miserly.

Saturn	in	Gemini
With	Saturn	in	Gemini,	 the	first	air	sign	and	the	sign	concerned	with	the	form
and	function	of	communication,	we	meet	a	mind	that	is	logical,	well	disciplined,
and	practical.	These	people	possess	a	great	reasoning	ability	to	solve	problems
and	express	 ideas	verbally	and	 in	writing.	They	 judge	 ideas	according	 to	 their
practicality	 and	 proven	 value.	 Saturn	 in	 Gemini	 individuals	 like	 things	 to	 be
clearly	defined	down	to	the	last	detail,	and	this	is	particularly	true	when	it	comes
to	contracts	and	agreements.	Honesty	 in	communication	and	dependability	are
of	 utmost	 importance	 to	 them.	 They	 are	 disciplined	 in	 all	 forms	 of	 mental
activity	 and	 often	 excel	 in	 science	 and	 mathematics—	 indeed,	 in	 any	 work
requiring	 the	 concrete	 implementation	 or	 expression	 of	 ideas.	 They	 are
adaptable	 to	 the	 practical	 needs	 of	 any	 situation.	 If	 Saturn	 is	 afflicted,	 these
individuals	can	display	excessive	doubt,	suspicion,	and	shyness	and	can	tend	to
be	overly	analytical	and	critical.

Saturn	in	Cancer
Saturn	 in	 Cancer	 can	 cause	 repression	 of	 emotional	 expression	 and
estrangement	 from	 family	members,	 resulting	 in	 emotional	 and	 psychological
isolation.	 Early	 relationships	 with	 parents	 and	 siblings	 are	 often	 cold	 and
problematic,	 leaving	 emotional	 scars	 that	 cause	 inhibitions	 and	 neurotic
tendencies,	although	these	individuals	still	remain	devoted	to	their	families	and
take	their	responsibilities	toward	them	very	seriously.	Saturn	in	Cancer	is	often
an	indicator	of	domestic	instability	and	insecurity.	The	need	for	respect	for	both
the	individual	and	the	family	is	felt	deeply	by	these	individuals,	and	they	often
hide	 their	 emotions	 in	 order	 to	 preserve	 their	 dignity.	 The	 resulting	 armor	 in
which	 they	 encase	 themselves	 can	 cause	 difficulties	 in	 close	 personal
relationships.	 A	 poor	 digestion	 and	 sluggish	 metabolism	 can	 cause	 some	 of
them	 to	be	overweight,	while	others	may	appear	 thin	 and	undernourished.	An



afflicted	 Saturn	 in	 Cancer	 can	 also	 result	 in	 hypersensitivity	 and	 a	 strong
attachment	to	material	possessions.

Saturn	in	Leo
Saturn	in	Leo	gives	a	strong	desire	for	power	and	leadership.	These	people	have
an	 almost	 compulsive	 need	 to	 personally	 control	 their	 environment,	 and	 if
Saturn	 is	 afflicted,	 they	 can	 be	 dictatorial	 and	 dogmatic.	 They	 require	 the
recognition	 and	 respect	 of	 others	 and	 can	 be	 very	 demanding	 of	 attention.
Security	 is	 sought	 through	 autocratic	 means.	 Parents	 with	 Saturn	 in	 Leo	 are
usually	strict	and	severe	disciplinarians	when	it	comes	 to	 their	children.	These
individuals	 need	 to	 set	 aside	 their	 egos	 and	 develop	 a	 proper	 attitude	 toward
love,	 romance,	 friendship,	 children,	 and	 self-expression.	 Professionally,	 they
may	be	interested	in	education	and	business	management,	which	can	involve	the
entertainment	 industry.	An	 afflicted	Saturn	 can	 cause	 disappointments	 in	 love
and	 problems	 with	 children,	 along	 with	 financial	 losses	 resulting	 from	 poor
speculation.	 Heart	 trouble	 and	 back	 problems,	 especially	 stiff	 muscles,	 are
physical	ailments	related	to	Saturn	in	Leo.

Saturn	in	Virgo
Here	 we	 have	 individuals	 who	 are	 extremely	 practical,	 hardworking,	 and
exacting	in	their	concern	for	efficiency,	detail,	precision,	and	accuracy.	If	Saturn
is	afflicted,	suffice	 it	 to	say	 that	perfectionism	can	be	 taken	 to	a	dysfunctional
extreme	and	have	a	negative	effect	on	relations	with	coworkers,	employees,	and
employers.	These	people	are	often	 found	working	 in	 such	 fields	as	health	and
medicine,	 scientific	 research,	 and	 detailed	 record-keeping	 professions	 like
accounting	 and	 library	 science.	 Often,	 they	 can	 appear	 to	 be	 austere	 and
depressed	owing	to	 the	weight	and	responsibility	of	 their	work.	It	 is	 important
that	they	learn	to	relax,	develop	a	sense	of	humor,	and	enjoy	themselves	once	in
a	while.	Worry	and	overwork	can	result	in	illness,	especially	ailments	related	to
nervousness	and	digestion.

Saturn	in	Libra
Libra	is	the	sign	that	rules	relationships,	and	Saturn	in	Libra	indicates	a	strong
concern	with	the	responsibilities	and	rules	thereof	and	contracts	between	people,
both	 in	 marriage	 and	 business.	 Saturn	 in	 Libra	 recognizes	 that	 mutual
agreement,	 cooperation,	 commitment,	 and	 justice	 are	 essential	 to	 creating
enduring	 human	 relationships,	 whether	 it	 be	 marriage,	 business,	 or	 close
friendships.	Since	Saturn	in	Libra	rules	contracts,	these	agreements	are	often	of



a	karmic	nature,	based	on	past	debts	and	 responsibilities.	Saturn	 in	Libra	may
indicate	marriage	in	later	life	or	marriage	to	an	individual	with	serious	business
or	 professional	 obligations.	 Those	 with	 Saturn	 in	 this	 sign	 are	 often	 lawyers,
judges,	 and	mediators.	 If	 Saturn	 is	 afflicted,	 these	 people	may	 have	 exacting
attitudes	 toward	 others,	with	 a	 tendency	 to	 strictly	 apply	 the	 letter	 of	 the	 law
rather	than	understanding	its	spirit.	They	may	lack	love,	forgiveness,	and	a	sense
of	 responsibility	 in	 their	 relationships.	 Alternatively,	 they	 can	 be	 inclined	 to
make	 too	 many	 commitments,	 resulting	 in	 overwork	 or	 an	 inability	 to	 make
good	on	their	promises.

Saturn	in	Scorpio
Saturn	in	Scorpio	indicates	heavy	responsibility	in	dealing	with	financial	affairs,
especially	 the	 finances	 and	 property	 of	 others,	 which	 can	 include	 corporate
resources,	 a	 partner's	 finances,	 taxes,	 inheritance,	 and	 insurance.	 These
individuals	tend	toward	perfectionism	in	their	work	and	can	be	hard	taskmasters
both	on	themselves	and	others,	with	no	patience	for	laziness	or	lack	of	diligence.
Much	energy	and	discipline	will	be	exerted	 in	 the	name	of	achieving	practical
goals.	 Responsibilities	 are	 taken	 on	 with	 a	 serious	 steadfastness.	 Persistence,
thoroughness,	and	a	grim	determination	are	characteristic	of	Saturn	in	Scorpio.
The	will	 to	power	and	authority	 is	very	 strong,	 and	 these	people	will	 struggle
hard	to	realize	their	ambitions,	whether	the	means	is	fair	or	foul,	depending	on
how	Saturn	is	aspected.
When	Saturn	is	afflicted,	conflict	over	joint	finances,	 inheritance,	and	taxes

may	 arise,	 resulting	 in	 litigation	 and	 loss.	 There	 can	 also	 be	 a	 tendency	 to
scheme	 and	 plot	 in	 secret,	with	 a	 deep	 desire	 for	 revenge	 and	 an	 inability	 or
refusal	 to	 forgive	 and	 forget.	 Saturn	 in	 Scorpio	 people	 can	 harbor	 deep
resentment	 if	 they	 feel	 unjustly	 done	 by	 and	 possess	 a	 fanatic	 adherence	 to
principles.	Health	problems	from	constipation	and	calcification	may	arise.

Saturn	in	Sagittarius
Saturn	 in	 Sagittarius	 describes	 people	who	 have	 strict	moral	 codes	 or	 a	 rigid
adherence	to	religious	principles.	They	will	be	intently	serious	in	their	pursuit	of
philosophy,	 religion,	 and	 higher	 education	 in	 their	 search	 for	 the	 truth	 and
constructive	values	 that	guide	personal	behavior.	 In	 this	sense,	 they	are	highly
moral,	be	 they	enlightened	or	misguided.	They	have	a	 fierce	 intellectual	pride
and	 a	 deep	 need	 for	 the	 kind	 of	 intellectual,	 philosophical,	 or	 spiritual
achievement	 that	brings	distinction	and	recognition.	Their	personal	 reputations
are	extremely	important	to	them,	and	they	have	an	acute	fear	of	disapproval	and



criticism	 of	 any	 sort.	 With	 an	 afflicted	 Saturn,	 they	 can	 be	 self-righteous,
dogmatic,	and	imperious	in	imposing	their	beliefs	and	values	on	others.

Saturn	in	Capricorn
Here	 there	 will	 be	 a	 strong	 ambition	 to	 achieve	 worldly	 power,	 status,	 and
authority.	These	individuals	are	possessed	by	a	driving	need	to	make	significant
achievements	 in	 their	 careers.	Whatever	 endeavors	 they	undertake	will	 have	a
practical	 purpose	 and	 reward.	 However,	 they	 are	 not	 risk	 takers.	 They	 will
protect	 their	 security	 while	 pursuing	 their	 ambitions,	 gaining	 the	 prominence
they	desire	without	putting	either	in	jeopardy.	Thus,	they	tend	to	be	conservative
in	 both	 business	 and	 politics	 and	 obedient	 to	 their	 superiors,	 and	 expect	 the
same	 obedience	when	 they	 themselves	 gain	 positions	 of	 authority.	 Their	 own
early	struggles	in	life	make	them	believe	that	everyone	should	earn	what	he	or
she	 gets	 through	 personal	 effort	 and	 that	 only	 practical	 experience	 and	 hard
work	 can	 qualify	 anyone	 to	 advise	 others	 or	 take	 on	 the	 responsibilities	 of
power.	 In	 this	 sense,	 they	 tend	 to	 be	 basically	 right,	 although	 sometimes	 too
severe,	 although	 they	 often	 make	 good	 mentors.	 Here	 is	 the	 knowledge	 that
everything	 in	 life	 has	 its	 price	 and	 that	 one	must	 give	 something	 back	 to	 the
world	in	order	to	take	from	it.	When	they	do	reach	positions	of	power,	they	take
it	upon	themselves	to	teach	others	to	help	themselves.	If	Saturn	is	afflicted,	they
can	use	 their	wealth	and	power	 to	control	others,	and	may,	 in	 later	 life,	 forget
the	struggles	of	 their	own	youth	and	be	harsh	and	unsympathetic	 toward	those
who	 are	 embarking	 without	 adequate	 resources	 but	 whose	 ambition,	 talent,
sincerity,	and	willingness	to	work	are	apparent.	As	with	Saturn	in	Scorpio,	these
individuals	 are	 capable	 of	 reaching	 the	 heights	 of	 spiritual	 awareness	 or
descending	into	the	unfulfilling	depths	of	materialism,	selfishness,	baseness,	and
callousness	 toward	 those	 less	 fortunate	 than	 themselves.	 Generally,	 they	 are
imbued	with	a	 strong	sense	of	 family	pride.	They	often	come	from	well-to-do
families	of	high	standing.	In	such	cases,	there	is	a	danger,	owing	to	the	lack	of
any	knowledge	of	life's	struggles,	to	regard	their	social	and	economic	inferiors
with	a	certain	cold	disdain,	as	merely	objects	to	be	manipulated	and	used.	If,	on
the	other	hand,	they	have	lived	through	a	childhood	of	poverty	and	deprivation,
Saturn	in	Capricorn	can	provide	the	drive	to	overcome	difficulties	and	achieve
success	 and	 social	 status.	 If	 Saturn	 is	 well	 aspected,	 they	 will	 engage	 their
integrity	and	honesty	 in	all	 their	dealings.	 If	afflicted,	unscrupulous	means	are
likely	to	be	employed	to	achieve	selfish	goals,	resulting	in	public	disgrace	and	a
fall	from	power.	There	is	also	a	danger	of	being	too	rigid	in	attitudes	and	beliefs.

Saturn	in	Aquarius



Saturn	 in	 Aquarius	 signifies	 a	 mind	 that	 is	 impersonal	 and	 scientific,	 with	 a
paramount	concern	for	the	truth	in	all	matters.	Here,	the	ego	can	be	set	aside	to
see	all	issues	in	the	light	of	objectivity	and	universal	law.	These	individuals	will
possess	great	powers	of	mental	concentration.	They	are	intellectually	ambitious
as	well	as	original,	often	working	hard	to	make	some	scientific	breakthrough	or
discovery.	They	possess	 the	 ability	 to	 visualize	 form	 and	 structure,	 often	 of	 a
geometrical	nature,	and	are	gifted	mathematically.	Like	Saturn	in	Libra,	Saturn
in	Aquarius	confers	an	acute	sense	of	justice	and	responsibility	in	relationships,
making	these	individuals	 loyal	 to	both	the	friends	and	groups	with	whom	they
work.	If	Saturn	is	afflicted,	they	can	be	domineering	and	selfish,	using	others	to
serve	their	own	personal	interests.	They	can	also	exhibit	coldness	and	emotional
insensitivity	 in	 personal	 relationships.	 The	 individual's	manner	 can	 be	 formal,
aloof,	and	exclusive,	with	an	excessive	intellectual	pride.

Saturn	in	Pisces
Here	we	 have	 the	 karmic	 planet	 in	 the	 karmic	 sign.	These	 individuals	 have	 a
strong	tendency	to	become	trapped	in	their	memories	of	the	past.	A	fearful	and
overactive	imagination	can	create	anxieties	and	neuroses	of	all	types,	imagining
slights	and	problems	where	none	actually	exist,	 and	 it	 can	become	difficult	 to
deal	effectively	with	 the	demands	of	 the	present.	On	 the	other	hand,	Saturn	 in
Pisces	 can	 confer	 a	 deep	 emotional	 understanding,	 a	 strong	 sense	 of	 altruism,
and	 the	 willingness	 to	 work	 hard	 in	 the	 name	 of	 helping	 the	 less	 fortunate.
Humility	 and	 psychological	 insight	 into	 others,	 along	 with	 a	 profound
spirituality,	 can	 be	 Saturn	 in	 Pisces'	 special	 gift.	 If	 Saturn	 is	 afflicted,	 these
individuals	 can	 suffer	 from	paranoia,	 excessive	worry,	 and	 anxiety	 and	 regret
arising	from	being	haunted	by	past	mistakes	and	misfortunes.	When	taken	to	the
extreme,	 these	 tendencies	can	 result	 in	psychosis.	Neurosis	can	cause	physical
illness.	When	these	people	are	able	to	master	their	psyches,	realizing	both	their
strengths	 and	 weaknesses,	 they	 can	 overcome	 their	 difficulties,	 let	 go	 of	 the
past,	 and	 act	 creatively	 and	 constructively	 on	 the	 present,	 often	with	 startling
results.	Their	work	 is	most	 likely	 to	be	done	quietly	and	behind	 the	 scenes	 in
large	institutions	such	as	universities,	hospitals,	and	the	like.

Saturn	in	the	Houses
Saturn	in	the	houses	shows	those	areas	in	our	life	in	which	we	must	acquire	and
exercise	 discipline	 in	 order	 to	 carry	 our	 burdens.	 Here	 are	 the	 practical
circumstances	 that	 require	 maturity	 and	 personal	 responsibility,	 and	 where
ambition	will	be	expressed,	and	challenges	and	obstacles	met	and	overcome.

Saturn	in	the	1st	House



Saturn	in	the	1st	House
Saturn	 in	 the	 1st	 House	 makes	 for	 individuals	 who	 are	 seriousminded	 and
hardworking,	accepting	personal	responsibility	and	tending	to	neither	speak	nor
act	without	definite	purpose.	Although	 they	have	a	dignified	manner,	 they	can
also	appear	to	be	cold,	austere,	and	unfriendly	to	the	casual	observer.	However,
they	 are	 grateful	 and	 loyal	 to	 those	 friends	who	 provide	 them	with	 assistance
when	 it	 is	needed,	and	 they	have	a	strong	sense	of	 justice	based	on	pragmatic
reasoning.	Often,	the	feeling	that	they	must	shoulder	heavy	responsibilities	can
result	 in	 a	 lack	 of	 humor	 and	 personal	 enjoyment,	 deeming	 such	 things	 as
frivolous	 and	 wasteful.	 If	 Saturn	 is	 afflicted,	 childhood	 hardships	 and
deprivations	 can	mean	 that	 many	 obstacles	 have	 to	 be	 overcome	 before	 self-
sufficiency	 and	 independence	 are	 obtained.	 Childhood	 suffering	 and	 the
subsequent	 psychological	wounds	 can	 result	 in	 a	 protective	mistrust	 of	 others
and	 a	 selfish	 and	materialistic	 ambition	 in	 the	name	of	 self-preservation.	This
creates	 a	 defensive	 shield	 that	 becomes	 difficult	 for	 others	 to	 penetrate.	 The
sense	of	loneliness	and	alienation	is	thus	further	enhanced	in	a	vicious	cycle	of
cause	and	effect.
These	 individuals	 will	 work	 long	 and	 hard	 to	 achieve	 success	 and	 power.

However,	 limitations	on	 the	 fulfillment	of	 their	 ambitions	 can	cause	a	hidden
hostility	 and	 resentment,	 making	 them	 prone	 to	 covert	 scheming	 in	 order	 to
exact	 revenge	 and	 take	 advantage	 of	 others.	 The	 lesson	 of	 Saturn	 in	 the	 1st
House	 is	 to	 learn	 to	 love,	 trust,	 and	cooperate	with	others.	Then,	 success	 and
fulfillment	 will	 be	 achieved.	 An	 afflicted	 Saturn	 here	 can	 lead	 to	 physical
disabilities	or	hardships.	Also,	 two	distinct	physical	 types	can	result	 from	this
placement,	one	short	with	a	dark	complexion,	the	other	tall	and	big	boned.

Saturn	in	the	2nd	House
Great	 ambition	 and	 hard	 work	 to	 acquire	 money,	 material	 possessions,	 and
status	are	characteristic	of	Saturn	in	the	2nd	House.	Generally,	these	individuals
will	 have	 to	 work	 hard	 to	 achieve	 their	 goals,	 but	 they	 are	 shrewd	 in	 their
business	 dealings	 and	 able	 to	 store	 away	 their	 money.	 Caution	 and	 frugality,
though,	can	result	in	stinginess,	which	can	hinder	business	expansion	and	mean
that	opportunities	are	lost.	Often,	their	cautiousness	is	the	result	of	a	deep-rooted
fear	of	poverty.	They	need	to	learn	to	be	more	fluid	in	their	business	dealings,
that	 to	 make	money,	 money	must	 also	 be	 spent	 and	 risks	 taken.	 If	 Saturn	 is
afflicted,	much	hard	work	can	result	in	little	to	no	gain.	A	wellaspected	Saturn
can	 bring	 financial	 security	 and	 the	 easy	 acquisition	 of	wealth,	 particularly	 in
the	 later	 years.	 Material	 gain	 through	 the	 father,	 an	 employer,	 or	 people	 in



powerful	positions	is	also	a	distinct	possibility.

Saturn	in	the	3rd	House
Saturn	gives	patience	and	methodology	to	the	thinking	processes,	and	here	there
will	be	great	mental	discipline	and	practicality	through	which	ideas	are	judged
according	 to	 their	useful	application.	A	3rd-House	Saturn	person's	 speech	will
be	slow	and	deliberate,	and	scientific	and	mathematical	abilities	apparent.	Those
with	Saturn	 in	 this	house	are	often	 found	working	 in	publishing,	printing,	and
other	 communications	 media.	 They	 make	 good	 accountants,	 researchers,
librarians,	writers,	 and	 teachers.	They	are	 always	 careful	with	 agreements	 and
wary	and	thorough	when	it	comes	to	signing	contracts.	An	afflicted	Saturn	can
mean	 troubles	 with	 siblings	 and	 neighbors.	 It	 can	 also	 cause	 worry,	 negative
thinking,	 and	 difficulties	 in	 obtaining	 the	 desired	 education.	 A	 wellaspected
Saturn	means	that	much	diligence	and	hard	work	will	go	into	acquiring	the	right
education	or	training	for	career	purposes.

Saturn	in	the	4th	House
With	Saturn	in	the	4th	House	many	burdens	and	responsibilities	will	be	incurred
through	the	home	and	family.	The	parents	are	likely	to	be	strict	and	conservative
and	may	 themselves	be	 a	 burden	 in	 their	 later	 years.	Saturn	 in	 this	 house	 can
mean	 emotional	 isolation	 from	 the	 family.	 These	 individuals	 often	 have	 to
struggle	 hard	 to	 provide	 for	 their	 families	 and	 achieve	 financial	 and	 domestic
security.	 Professional	 and	 business	 interests	 often	 revolve	 around	 real	 estate,
building,	farming,	or	the	manufacture	of	domestic	goods.	Care	must	be	taken	in
managing	the	home,	property,	and	inheritance.	These	people	may	become	shut-
ins	 or	 recluses	 in	 later	 life	 or	 be	 restricted	 to	 their	 homes	 by	 force	 of
circumstance.

Saturn	in	the	5th	House
Saturn	 in	 the	 5th	 House	 often	 indicates	 heavy	 burdens	 and	 responsibilities
concerning	 children.	 In	 a	woman's	 horoscope,	 it	 can	 indicate	 difficulties	with
childbirth.	Romantic	involvements	generally	entail	burdensome	obligations,	and
these	people	often	become	involved	with	older,	mature	partners.	A	wellaspected
Saturn	 in	 the	5th	House	can	bestow	a	desire	for	power	and	leadership	 through
artistic	 self-expression.	Business	and	politics	can	also	provide	creative	outlets.
These	people	can	make	good	investors	and	stockbrokers.
If	 Saturn	 is	 afflicted	 in	 the	 5th	 House,	 the	 individual	 may	 experience

disappointments	 in	 love	 or	 a	 distinct	 lack	 of	 romantic	 opportunities	 owing	 to



too	much	self-conscious	reserve	and	an	inability	to	reach	out	warmly	to	others.
Only	when	Saturn	in	the	5th	House	learns	to	express	love	openly	will	happiness
and	 fulfillment	 be	 attained.	 If	 Saturn	 is	 heavily	 afflicted,	 there	 can	 be	 an
inability	to	relate	to	children	and	a	tendency	to	be	too	stern	and	strict	with	them.
Emotional	 coldness	 and	 blockages	 can	 also	 cause	 sexual	 inhibitions	 and
frigidity.

Saturn	in	the	6th	House
Here,	heavy	responsibilities	will	be	incurred	through	work	or	service.	An	ability
to	work	 hard	 and	 efficiently	 is	 also	 indicated,	with	work	 taken	 very	 seriously
and	 requiring	 some	 sort	 of	 specialized	 skill.	 There	 is	 also	 a	 serious	 attitude
toward	 health	 and	 hygiene.	 Mercury's	 rulership	 of	 the	 6th	 House	 bestows	 a
carefully	 analytic	 mind.	 These	 individuals	 are	 inclined	 toward	 careers	 in
medicine,	science,	engineering,	and	other	fields	that	require	skill	and	precision.
A	wellaspected	 Saturn	means	 that	 they	will	 be	 respected	 by	 their	 employers,
employees,	 and	 coworkers.	 If	 Saturn	 is	 afflicted,	 there	 can	 be	 chronic	 health
problems	 and	 low	 vitality	 as	 a	 result	 of	 overwork	 and	 worry,	 and	 work
relationships	can	be	strained	and	stressful.

Saturn	in	the	7th	House
The	7th	House	corresponds	 to	Libra,	 the	 sign	 in	which	Saturn	 is	 exalted,	 thus
conferring	 a	 strong	 sense	 of	 justice	 and	 responsibility	 in	 all	 important
relationships	and	transactions.	These	people	 tend	to	either	marry	 late	 in	 life	or
marry	a	mature,	seriousminded	and	career-oriented	individual.	If	Saturn	is	well
aspected,	the	marriage	will	be	stable	and	long	lasting.	If	afflicted,	marriage	and
partnerships	 will	 be	 problematic.	 Those	 with	 Saturn	 in	 the	 7th	 House	 are
capable	of	working	hard	and	responsibly	in	cooperation	with	others,	upholding
their	side	of	all	agreements.	They	have	a	keen	interest	in	law	and	are	skilled	in
formulating	 contracts	 and	 in	 business	management.	 If	 Saturn	 is	 afflicted,	 they
can	 be	 critical	 and	 inhibited	 in	 their	 relationships,	 and	 their	 marriage	 partner
may	be	cold,	critical,	interfering,	and	unloving.	An	afflicted	Saturn	can	indicate
treacherous	 enemies	 and	 lawsuits.	 Saturn	 in	 the	 7th	 House	 means	 that	 these
individuals	 often	 find	 themselves	 forced	 into	 relationships	 that	 entail	 burdens
and	responsibilities.

Saturn	in	the	8th	House
Saturn	 in	 the	8th	House,	which	corresponds	 to	Scorpio,	 indicates	 involvement
with	 partners'	 resources	 and	 finances,	 and	 the	 subsequent	 responsibility	 this



involvement	 naturally	 entails	 in	 terms	 of	 being	 accountable	 for	 other	 people's
money	and	property.	An	afflicted	Saturn	can	mean	litigation,	 losses,	and	other
troubles	 involving	 other	 people's	 money	 and	 property.	 Death	 may	 be	 caused
from	long-term	illness.	Disturbing	dreams	and	psychic	experiences	that	have	a
detrimental	 psychological	 effect	 are	 common	 with	 this	 placement.	 Marriage
may	entail	a	financial	burden,	and	there	may	be	restrictions	on	fulfilling	career
ambitions	due	 to	 lack	of	 income	or	 capital.	 If	Saturn	 is	well	 aspected,	money
can	 be	 made	 through	 skillful	 management	 of	 a	 partner's	 resources,	 and	 the
individual	can	attain	deep	spiritual	insight	into	the	meaning	of	life's	mysteries.

Saturn	in	the	9th	House
Saturn	in	the	9th	House	points	to	a	serious	interest	in	religion,	philosophy,	and
higher	 education,	with	 a	 concern	 for	 their	 practical	 value	 in	 governing	 action
and	 behavior	 and	 contributing	 to	 the	 betterment	 and	 stability	 of	 society.
Education,	 especially	 at	 some	 acclaimed	 institute	 of	 higher	 learning,	 will	 be
sought	for	the	status	and	professional	advancement	it	can	bring.	As	with	Saturn
in	Sagittarius,	these	individuals	seek	personal	distinction	in	the	areas	of	religion,
education,	and	philosophy	and	desire	power	and	authority	within	the	institutions
that	govern	these	fields.	Religious	and	moral	standards	tend	to	be	conservative,
and	 they	 are	 extremely	 concerned	 with	 their	 moral	 reputation.	 If	 Saturn	 is
afflicted,	 they	can	be	narrow-minded,	 rigid,	and	authoritarian	 in	 their	attitudes
and	views.

Saturn	in	the	10th	House
The	 10th	House	 corresponds	 to	 Capricorn,	 which	 Saturn	 rules,	 so	 this	 strong
placement	 indicates	 great	 ambition	 and	 an	 enormous	 drive	 to	 achieve
professional	 status	 and	 success.	 This	will	 become	 paramount	 after	 the	 age	 of
twenty-nine.	 A	 wellaspected	 Saturn	 means	 that	 hard	 work	 and	 integrity	 will
bestow	 power,	 authority,	 and	 wealth,	 especially	 in	 later	 life.	 Farsighted
organizational	and	managerial	abilities	are	 indicated.	A	wellaspected	Saturn	 in
the	 10th	 House	 is	 very	 favorable	 for	 politicians	 and	 executives.	 An	 afflicted
Saturn	can	mean	that	obstacles,	lack	of	opportunity,	and	just	bad	luck	can	stand
in	 the	way	 of	 achieving	 success.	A	 tendency	 to	 compromise	 principles	 in	 the
name	of	blind	ambition	can	lead	to	reversals	of	fortune	and	public	disgrace.

Saturn	in	the	11th	House
Great	 care,	 consideration,	 and	 responsibility	 in	 relationships	with	 others,	 both
personal	friendships	and	group	associations,	are	indicative	of	Saturn	in	the	11th



House.	 Important	 and	 influential	 individuals	will	 be	 sought	out	 as	 a	means	of
advancing	the	individual's	career	and	status,	and	with	friends	they	will	enjoy	an
equal	 exchange	 of	 loyalty	 and	 good	 advice.	 Shared	 interests	 will	 provide
opportunities	 to	gain	knowledge	and	grow	 intellectually.	 If	Saturn	 is	 afflicted,
the	 individual	 and	 his	 or	 her	 friends	 and	 associates	 may	 use	 each	 other	 for
personal	gain.	A	wellaspected	Saturn	means	that	the	individual	holds	a	sense	of
equal	justice	for	all	in	his	or	her	friendships	and	group	associations,	from	which
everybody	 benefits.	 Often	 these	 friendships	 and	 associations	 are	 karmic	 in
nature.	 There	 is	 a	 strong	 likelihood	 of	 friendships	with	 older	 individuals	who
provide	wisdom	and	guidance	as	well	as	opportunities	for	advancement.

Saturn	in	the	12th	House
Saturn	 in	 the	 12th	House	 often	means	 that	 recognition	will	 be	 hard	 to	 obtain,
unless	 Saturn	 is	 favorably	 aspected	 to	 the	 10th	 House	 or	 its	 planetary	 ruler.
These	 individuals	 will	 probably	 spend	 much	 time	 in	 seclusion	 or	 working
quietly	 behind	 the	 scenes	 in	 some	 large	 institution.	 An	 afflicted	 Saturn	 here,
however,	can	impart	loneliness	and	depression.	If	badly	afflicted,	it	can	indicate
mental	illness	and	confinement	in	a	hospital	or	prison.	Often,	it	indicates	secret
enemies	 who	 are	 instrumental	 in	 the	 individual's	 downfall,	 although	 in	 many
cases	these	enemies	may	be	more	imaginary	than	real.	A	wellaspected	Saturn	in
the	 12th	 House	 means	 that	 these	 individuals	 can	 escape	 their	 psychological
problems	by	working	vigorously	and	serving	others	 in	a	constructive	way	 that
energizes	them	and	gives	them	a	greater	purpose.

Aspects	of	Saturn
Aspects	 of	Saturn,	 as	well	 as	 the	house,	 sign	position,	 and	 the	houses	 it	 rules
(the	 10th	House	 and	 those	 in	which	Capricorn	 and	Aquarius	 are	 found	 in	 the
natal	chart),	indicate	our	capacity	for	self-discipline	and	how	and	where	we	will
apply	 it	 to	structuring	our	 life.	Saturn's	placement	and	aspects	 to	other	planets
show	where	we	will	be	compelled	to	fulfill	ourselves	and	correct	the	mistakes	of
the	past,	 thus	 acquiring	 experience,	wisdom,	 and	 redemption.	Without	 a	well-
placed	Saturn,	progress	in	life	can	be	a	struggle,	as	the	discipline	and	experience
necessary	 to	 accomplish	 anything	worthwhile	 are	 lacking	or	hard	 to	 come	by.
An	afflicted	Saturn	can	make	us	feel	we're	prisoner	of	our	personal	limitations
rather	 than	 inspiring	us	 to	work	 constructively	with	 them.	Misfortune	 is	 often
the	result.	A	well-placed	Saturn	confers	strong	ambition	and	a	desire	 to	create
something	of	lasting	value.

Saturn	Conjunctions



Saturn	conjunctions	indicate	ambition	and	hard	work,	along	with	obstacles	and
limitations	 that	must	 be	 overcome.	These	 individuals	 tend	 to	 be	 conservative,
serious,	and	highly	disciplined.	Their	austere	natures	are	often	an	impediment	to
warm	 or	 close	 relationships.	 These	 characteristics	will	 be	most	 evident	 in	 the
affairs	ruled	by	the	planet	or	planets	forming	the	conjunction	and	the	signs	and
houses	Saturn	and	the	planet(s)	rule	and	occupy.

Saturn	Sextiles
Saturn	sextiles	 indicate	 that	progress	and	mental	growth	and	development	will
be	 achieved	 through	 hard	 work	 and	 good	 organization	 and	 planning.	 These
individuals	 will	 be	 loyal	 to	 family,	 friends,	 neighbors,	 employers,	 and
employees.	These	influences	will	be	most	evident	in	the	affairs	governed	by	the
signs	 and	 houses	which	 Saturn	 and	 the	 planet(s)	 forming	 the	 sextile	 rule	 and
occupy.

Saturn	Squares
Saturn	 squares	 indicate	 severe	 obstacles	 and	 limitations	 imposed	 on	 the
individual's	ambitions	and	quest	for	happiness.	These	people	are	fated	to	work
twice	 as	 hard	 to	 achieve	 the	 results	 others	 attain	 with	 relative	 ease.	 Saturn
squares	indicate	major	life	problems	to	be	overcome,	but	they	can	also	be	a	Job-
like	 source	 of	 inspiration	 that	 drives	 the	 individual	 to	 greater	 achievement.
These	difficulties	and	obstacles	will	be	found	in	the	affairs	ruled	by	the	squaring
planet	 or	 planets,	 and	 the	 signs	 and	 houses	 which	 Saturn	 and	 the	 planet(s)
occupy	and	rule.

Saturn	Trines
Trines	of	Saturn	indicate	that	creative	discipline	and	philosophical	insight	bring
good	fortune	and	success	in	those	affairs	and	arenas	governed	by	the	planets	that
form	 the	 trine	 and	 are	 governed	 by	 the	 signs	 and	 houses	 that	 Saturn	 and	 the
planet(s)	 rule	 and	 occupy.	 High	 moral	 conduct	 and	 standards	 inspire	 the
confidence	and	trust	of	others,	granting	these	individuals	positions	of	authority
and	responsibility.

Saturn	Oppositions
Oppositions	 of	 Saturn	 point	 to	 relationship	 problems	 that	 are	 the	 result	 of
selfish,	negative,	and	 restrictive	attitudes	 toward	others.	This	will	be	 felt	most
strongly	 in	 the	 affairs	 ruled	 by	 the	 planet	 or	 planets	 opposing	 Saturn	 and	 the
signs	 and	 houses	 that	 Saturn	 and	 the	 planet(s)	 rule	 and	 occupy.	 Dour	 and



austere,	 these	 individuals	 often	 seem	 unfriendly	 and	 unapproachable,	 which
only	serves	to	enhance	their	feelings	of	loneliness	and	alienation,	characteristics
they	must	learn	to	correct	if	happiness	is	to	be	attained.



CHAPTER	12
Uranus

Uranus	is	 the	first	of	 the	transpersonal	planets,	spending	roughly	seven	years
in	 one	 sign	 of	 the	Zodiac.	 It	 is	 the	 planet	 of	 intuition,	 sudden	 and	 innovative
insight,	and	the	urge	toward	freedom.

Uranus	in	the	Signs
Because	of	its	slow	movement,	large	groups	of	people	have	Uranus	in	the	same
sign,	which	tends	to	speak	of	demographic	dynamics.	The	more	personal	effects
of	Uranus	are	indicated	by	its	placement	in	the	houses	and	the	aspects	it	forms
with	the	other	planets	in	the	horoscope.

Uranus	in	Aries
Freedom	 of	 action	 is	 of	 paramount	 importance	 to	 those	 born	 with	 Uranus	 in
Aries.	Courageous,	daring,	and	resourceful,	they	are	groundbreaking	pioneers	in
science	and	social	reform.	Suffice	it	to	say	that	they	see	this	as	their	mission	in
life.	Blunt	and	outspoken,	this	generation	demands	change	and	the	adoption	of
new	lifestyles.	They	have	a	strong	spirit	of	adventure	and	are	in	constant	search
of	 new	 experiences.	 When	 Uranus	 is	 afflicted,	 these	 individuals	 can	 be
explosive,	 impulsive,	 violent,	 politically	 fanatical,	 and	 indiscriminate	 and
iconoclastic	in	their	rejection	of	the	past.	People	who	were	born	between	1928
and	 1934	 have	 Uranus	 in	 Aries	 square	 Pluto	 in	 Cancer.	 Impulsiveness,
temperamental	and	egotistical	violence,	and	blind	and	aggressive	individualism
are	the	pitfalls	of	Uranus	in	Aries.

Uranus	in	Taurus
Those	born	with	Uranus	in	Taurus	have	new	and	innovative	ideas	about	the	use
of	money	and	resources	and	often	seek	economic	reform	based	on	humanitarian
principles.	They	are	endowed	with	a	strong	sense	of	purpose	and	determination.
As	a	result,	if	Uranus	is	afflicted,	they	can	be	stubborn	and	unyielding.	Uranus's
urge	 to	 freedom	 and	 self-expression	 is	 limited	 by	 Taurus's	 materialism	 and
attachments	to	home	and	family.	A	well-aspected	Uranus	in	Taurus	can	bestow
considerable	 artistic	 talents,	 especially	 in	 music,	 and	 these	 people	 are	 often
interested	in	the	use	of	electronics	in	business	and	management.

Uranus	in	Gemini



The	 generation	 with	 Uranus	 in	 Gemini	 is	 gifted	 with	 brilliant	 and	 intuitive
minds;	 they	 are	 the	 progenitors	 of	 new	ways	 of	 thinking,	 pioneers	 in	 science,
literature,	 education,	 and	 communication.	 They	 can,	 however,	 be	 prone	 to	 an
extreme	 restlessness	 that	 can	 make	 it	 difficult	 for	 them	 to	 bring	 things	 to
completion.	Self-discipline	 is	necessary	for	 the	concrete	fruition	of	 their	 ideas.
Given	their	restlessness	and	curiosity,	 they	tend	to	 travel	a	great	deal,	meeting
new	 people	 and	 discovering	 new	 ideas.	 If	 Uranus	 is	 afflicted	 in	 Gemini,
thinking	can	be	disjointed,	scattered,	and	impractical.	There	can	be	conflicted	or
unreliable	relationships	with	siblings	and	neighbors,	and	travel	can	be	beset	by
confusion	and	even	danger	as	a	result	of	accidents.

Uranus	in	Cancer
Those	 born	 between	 June	 1949	 and	 June	 1956	 have	Uranus	 in	 Cancer.	 They
seek	 freedom	and	 excitement	 through	 emotional	 expression	 and	 independence
from	 the	 restrictions	 of	 family	 life	 and	 parental	 authority.	 They	 desire	 an
egalitarian	relationship	with	their	parents	and	try	to	make	them	less	their	parents
and	 more	 their	 friends.	 This	 is	 very	 much	 the	 relationship	 between	 the
generation	 known	 as	 the	 baby	 boomers	 and	 their	 parents	 who	 went	 through
WWII.	Upon	leaving	home,	these	people	make	sure	they	will	be	able	to	return	if
the	 new	 worlds	 they	 are	 exploring	 prove	 to	 be	 unsatisfactory,	 hostile,	 or
unworkable.	 They	 may	 tend	 to	 have	 an	 interest	 in	 communal	 living	 or	 in
untraditional	 ideas	 of	 family.	 They	 see	 their	 homes	 as	 gathering	 places	 for
friends	 and	 group	 activities.	 In	 a	 way,	 it	 may	 be	 said	 they	 have	 a	 strong,
nomadic	tribal	sensibility,	wishing	to	share	the	comforts	of	their	fire,	food,	and
tent	with	their	 like-minded	fellow	travelers.	Often	their	friends	become	part	of
their	 extended	 family.	 Uranus	 in	 Cancer	 bestows	 considerable	 psychic
sensitivity.	 An	 afflicted	 Uranus	 can	 cause	 an	 erratic	 and	 unpredictable
temperament.

Uranus	in	Leo
People	born	with	Uranus	in	Leo	seek	freedom	in	love	and	romance.	They	have
untraditional	 ideas	 and	 morals	 about	 courtship	 and	 sex	 and	 are	 likely	 to	 be
advocates	 of	 free	 love.	 They	 are	 born	 innovators,	 with	 strong	 willpower	 and
creativity	and	are	capable	of	developing	new	concepts	in	art,	theater,	and	music.
They	refuse	to	conform	to	the	standards	of	society,	and	instead	create	and	live
by	their	own	rules.	If	Uranus	is	afflicted,	there	is	a	danger	of	excessive	pride	and
egotism.	 They	 can	 be	 stubborn	 and	 unyielding,	 incapable	 of	 compromise	 and
cooperation	with	others,	insisting	on	going	their	own	way	at	any	cost.



Uranus	in	Virgo
Virgo	 is	 ruled	 by	 Mercury,	 the	 planet	 of	 communication,	 knowledge,	 and
scientific	 thought	(Mercury	was	the	Roman	messenger	of	 the	gods),	and	while
Uranus	was	in	Virgo	(an	earth	sign),	many	technological	inventions	were	born
(among	 them	 miniature	 solid-state	 circuitry	 and	 computers)	 that	 have
revolutionized	 business,	 industry,	 and	 communications.	 Those	 born	 between
1964	 and	 1968	 have	 Uranus	 conjunct	 Pluto	 in	 Virgo	 and	 are	 especially
innovative	 and	 influential	 in	 these	 arenas.	 Overall,	 Uranus	 in	 Virgo	 confers
ingenious	 and	 highly	 practical	 approaches	 to	 industry,	 science,	 technology,
labor	 relations,	 and	health	care.	They	are	 revolutionary	 in	 these	 fields.	This	 is
the	generation	designated	by	 the	Zodiac	 and	history	 to	bear	 the	burden	of	 the
hard	work	required	to	lay	the	practical	foundations	for	 the	new	Aquarian	Age,
ruled	 by	 Uranus,	 which	 is	 now	 upon	 us.	 They	 have	 an	 unusual	 talent	 for
business	and	are	diligent	and	resourceful	workers.	However,	 they	are	 likely	 to
experience	 many	 changes,	 disruptions,	 and	 upheavals	 in	 employment,	 as	 we
have	 already	 seen	with	 the	 “dot	 com”	 boom	 and	 bust	 and	 the	 collapse	 of	 the
technology	 investment	 bubble.	 If	 Uranus	 is	 afflicted	 in	 Virgo,	 there	 can	 be
erratic	 health	 problems.	Given	Virgo's	 concern	with	 health,	 diet,	 and	hygiene,
under	 Uranus's	 influence	 this	 is	 the	 distinctly	 antismoking	 generation,	 with	 a
strong	interest	in	selfhealing	practices.

Uranus	in	Libra
This	is	a	group	of	people	with	distinctly	new	ideas	about	marriage,	partnerships,
and	the	rules	of	social	conduct.	In	marriage,	the	integrity	of	the	relationship	and
individual	 freedom	 are	 far	 more	 important	 than	 any	 binding	 legal	 contract,
which	they	regard	as	superfluous.	Concerned	with	individual	freedom,	they	are
prone	 to	 experiment	 with	 open	 relationships,	 communal	 living,	 and	 new
concepts	 of	 justice	 and	 morality	 and	 are	 likely	 to	 bring	 about	 reform	 and
innovation	 of	 existing	 legal	 codes,	 especially	 those	 that	 govern	marriage	 and
partnerships.	 If	 Uranus	 is	 afflicted,	 there	 can	 be	 difficulties	 in	 marriage	 or
partnerships	 due	 to	 carelessness	 or	 unreliability	 in	 handling	 mutual
responsibilities.

Uranus	in	Scorpio
Uranus	is	the	planet	of	revolutionary	change,	and	Scorpio,	the	sign	of	death	and
renewal.	Those	born	with	Uranus	in	Scorpio	are	destined	to	see	the	destruction
of	 the	 old	 order,	 out	 of	 the	 ashes	 of	which	 the	 new	order	 is	 born.	Many	who
experienced	 WWI	 were	 born	 with	 Uranus	 in	 Scorpio.	 Uranus	 was	 next	 in



Scorpio	between	1975	(the	end	of	the	Vietnam	War)	and	1982,	a	period	that	is
believed	 to	 mark	 the	 beginning	 of	 the	 destruction	 of	 the	 Piscean	 Age	 from
which	 the	Aquarian	Age	will	 emerge,	 starting	 around	 2000.	 Those	 born	with
Uranus	in	Scorpio	have	highly	charged	emotions	and	believe	in	taking	swift	and
decisive	 action.	 They	 have	 no	 tolerance	 for	 any	 form	 of	 laziness,
procrastination,	 or	 inactivity	 and	 tend	 to	 possess	 great	 scientific	 ingenuity.	 If
Uranus	 is	 afflicted	 here,	 they	 can	 have	 violent	 tempers	 and	 be	 fiercely
determined	 to	 bring	 about	 change	 at	 any	 cost,	 regardless	 of	 the	 havoc	 and
destruction	it	might	entail.

Uranus	in	Sagittarius
Uranus	in	Sagittarius	is	concerned	with	bringing	about	new	concepts	in	religion,
philosophy,	and	education.	These	natives	will	have	an	intense	interest	in	foreign
cultures	 and	 systems	 of	 belief	 and	 will	 travel	 widely	 and	 often.	 If	 Uranus	 is
afflicted,	 there	 can	be	 a	dogmatic	 adherence	 to	 religious	beliefs	or	 a	desire	 to
negate	 all	 religious	 and	 spiritual	 thought.	 In	 the	 late	 1890s	 and	 early	 1900s,
Uranus	 was	 in	 Sagittarius.	 It	 was	 a	 time	 of	 great	 intellectual	 ferment	 in	 the
world	 of	 science,	 of	 Albert	 Einstein's	 first	 awakening,	 of	 the	 discovery	 of
electromagnetism,	and	of	 science	going	off	 into	 the	 realm	of	 the	 invisible	and
the	 unknown—of	 the	 Sagittarian	 mental	 traveler,	 explorer,	 and	 pioneer.
Sagittarius	 is	 interested	not	only	 in	 the	 idea	but	also	 in	 the	“idea	of	 the	 idea.”
Uranus's	transit	through	the	signs	from	Sagittarius	to	Pisces	in	the	late	1890s	to
the	early	1920s	 saw	 the	great	 creative	changes—artistic,	 scientific,	 social,	 and
spiritual—that	 defined	 the	 twentieth	 century.	 From	 this	Uranus	 entered	Aries,
the	beginning	of	 the	new	cycle	or	 turn	of	 the	Great	Wheel.	With	Uranus	now
transiting	Pisces,	we	are	once	again	at	the	end	of	a	cycle,	approaching	a	new	era.

Uranus	in	Capricorn
These	are	people	who	will	affect	important	changes	within	the	power	structures
of	both	government	and	business,	with	a	 strong	desire	 to	change	and	 improve
the	status	quo	in	order	 to	secure	a	prosperous	future.	They	are	concerned	with
bringing	 ideas	 into	 practical	 and	 concrete	 actuality.	 They	 seek	 constructive
change,	building	the	new	on	the	foundations	of	the	old,	and	therefore	never	fully
do	away	with	 the	past.	They	are	ambitious,	with	a	strong	will	 to	succeed,	and
are	 able	 to	 take	 old	 ideas	 and	 develop	 them	 in	 new	ways,	which	 they	 use	 to
advance	 their	 careers.	 If	 Uranus	 is	 afflicted,	 they	 are	 likely	 to	 overextend
themselves	in	the	name	of	fulfilling	their	ambitions.

Uranus	in	Aquarius



Uranus	in	Aquarius
Uranus	 rules	 Aquarius	 and	 is	 therefore	 powerfully	 placed	 when	 in	 this	 sign.
Those	 with	 Uranus	 in	 Aquarius	 have	 an	 overall	 concern	 for	 the	 good	 of
humanity.	 Their	 humanitarianism	 often	 extends	 to	 clairvoyance	 and	 a	 deep
intuitive	understanding	of	scientific	as	well	as	universal	truths.	They	are	open	to
new	ideas	and	seek	social	reform	through	work	with	groups	and	organizations.
Independent	 and	 strong-willed,	 they	 insist	 on	making	 their	 own	decisions	 and
drawing	 their	 own	 conclusions.	 Objective	 and	 impartial,	 they	 will	 readily
discard	any	ideas	and	methodologies	that	do	not	stand	up	to	scientific	scrutiny.
Direct	experience	is,	for	them,	the	ultimate	test	of	the	validity	of	any	matter.	If
Uranus	 is	 afflicted,	 license	 can	 be	 mistaken	 for	 freedom,	 and	 there	 can	 be
unreasoning	 and	 willful	 stubbornness,	 eccentricity	 for	 its	 own	 sake,	 and	 an
inability	or	refusal	to	work	within	any	system	requiring	discipline	or	routine.

Uranus	in	Pisces
Uranus	in	Pisces	confers	strong	intuitive	abilities	coupled	with	a	keen	scientific
and	 psychological	 interest	 in	 the	workings	 of	 the	 unconscious.	Uranus	was	 in
Pisces	during	the	1920s,	which	saw	the	birth	of	Surrealism,	along	with	the	great
artistic	and	 literary	movements	of	 the	 twentieth	century	 (see	Neptune	 in	Leo),
and	 depth	 psychology.	 The	 great	 motivating	 drive	 for	 these	 individuals	 is	 to
liberate	 the	 mind	 from	 the	 emotional	 influences	 and	 shackles	 of	 the	 past,	 to
overcome	the	limitations	of	materialistic	concerns,	and	to	seek	a	higher	spiritual
understanding	and	identity.	These	individuals	have	strong	religious	inclinations
that	can	border	on	the	mystical.	Many	of	their	ideas	and	insights	come	to	them
through	dreams.	If	Uranus	is	afflicted,	there	can	be	unrealistic	idealism	and	an
inability	 to	 cope	 with	 unpleasant	 situations;	 there	 can	 also	 be	 deception	 and
untrustworthiness	in	dealings	with	others.

Uranus	in	the	Houses
Uranus	 in	 the	houses	shows	the	 type	of	activity	 through	which	we	express	 the
urge	for	individuality	and	freedom.	It	shows	the	circumstances	in	which	sudden
and	exciting	events	enter	our	lives,	 the	type	of	friends	that	we	choose,	and	the
kinds	of	activities	that	inspire	us.

Uranus	in	the	1st	House
Those	with	Uranus	 in	 the	 1st	 House	 are	 driven	 by	 an	 irrepressible	 desire	 for
personal	freedom.	They	are	restless	and	crave	constant	change	and	excitement,
often	preferring	a	 life	of	 risk	and	adventure	 to	one	of	 settlement	 and	 security.
They	 have	 little	 regard	 for	 conventional	 behavior.	 A	 routine	 existence	 is



anathema	to	them.	Often	they	are	seen	as	eccentric	and	exceptional	individuals,
and	they	tend	to	possess	intuitive	and	unique	talents	in	the	arts	or	sciences.	They
are	 interested	 in	 the	 new	 and	 the	 inventive.	 These	 individuals	 are	 prone	 to
extremes	rather	than	moderation,	and	their	behavior	can	be	unpredictable.	When
Uranus	 is	afflicted	 in	 the	1st	House,	eccentricity	can	become	an	end	 in	and	of
itself;	 they	can	be	unreasonably	obstinate,	and	freedom	can	be	pursued	merely
for	 its	 own	 sake,	with	 little	 to	no	 regard	 for	 consequences,	 responsibilities,	 or
the	 rights	 of	 others.	 A	 well-aspected	 Uranus	 can	 produce	 individuals	 of	 real
genius	in	their	chosen	fields.

Uranus	in	the	2nd	House
Uranus	 in	 the	 2nd	 House	 indicates	 unstable	 finances.	 These	 individuals	 are
impulsive	and	reckless	with	their	money	and	can	spend	it	as	fast	as	they	make	it.
However,	they	can	have	an	unusual	talent	for	making	money,	especially	through
businesses	 involving	 inventions,	 electronics,	 and	 other	 scientific	 fields.	 If
Uranus	is	afflicted,	they	can	become	involved	in	impractical	financial	ventures
and	experience	trouble	over	unpaid	debts.

Uranus	in	the	3rd	House
Those	with	Uranus	in	the	3rd	House	are	free	thinkers	with	unusual	and	intuitive
minds	 that	 are	 prone	 to	 sudden	 insights.	 Their	 thinking	 is	 not	 subject	 to	 the
influence	of	others,	and	their	ideas	and	opinions	are	based	on	direct	experience
and	 scientific	 fact.	 Impersonal	 and	 impartial,	 they	 are	 open	 to	 new	 ideas	 and
always	 investigating	 the	 undiscovered	 and	 unusual.	 Many	 inventors	 and
scientists	have	Uranus	in	the	3rd	House.	These	people	may	also	be	involved	in
the	 communications	 media,	 especially	 radio	 and	 television.	 If	 Uranus	 is
afflicted,	 the	 mind	 can	 be	 restless	 and	 scattered,	 prone	 to	 jumping	 hastily	 to
conclusions	and	frequent	changes	of	opinion.

Uranus	in	the	4th	House
With	Uranus	in	the	4th	House,	home	and	family	life	will	be	unusual,	to	say	the
least.	 Even	 the	 house	 itself	may	 be	 of	 unusual	 or	 distinctive	 architecture	 and
may	 contain	 any	 variety	 of	 electronic	 devices	 and	 gadgetry.	 Family	members
desire	the	freedom	to	come	and	go	as	they	please,	and	there	is	the	likelihood	of
one	 of	 the	 parents	 being	 exceptional	 or	 even	 strange	 in	 some	 regard.	 In	 this
household,	 close	 friends	 are	 accepted	 as	 family	 members,	 and	 the	 home	 is	 a
center	for	group	activities.	If	Uranus	is	afflicted	or	in	a	mutable	sign,	there	is	the
likelihood	of	 sudden	changes	of	 residence	and	 family	and	domestic	 situations.



An	afflicted	Uranus	can	mean	domestic	upheavals	and	difficulties	with	 family
members.	 Relationships	 with	 parents	 and	 other	 family	 members	 are	 seldom
binding.

Uranus	in	the	5th	House
With	 Uranus	 in	 the	 5th	 House	 there	 will	 be	 sudden	 and	 unusual	 romantic
involvements	that	are	prone	to	end	as	abruptly	as	they	began.	Romantic	partners
are	themselves	likely	to	be	unusual	or	eccentric	in	some	regard.	Excitement	here
is	 sought	 through	 the	 pursuit	 of	 pleasure,	 and	 attitudes	 toward	 sexuality	 are
often	unconventional.	An	afflicted	Uranus	in	the	5th	House	can	mean	excessive
promiscuity.	 The	 children	 of	 these	 individuals	 are	 likely	 to	 be	 gifted	 in	 some
regard,	 and	 their	 parents	 tend	 to	 give	 them	 a	 lot	 of	 freedom.	 If	 Uranus	 is
afflicted,	 however,	 the	 children	 can	 suffer	 from	 psychological	 problems	 or
abnormalities,	 and	 the	 parents	 may	 be	 neglectful	 of	 their	 responsibilities,
especially	 in	 regard	 to	 proper	 discipline	 and	 the	 enforcement	 of	 the	 rules	 that
children	 require	 and	 actually	desire.	Often,	Uranus	 in	 the	5th	House	produces
inspired	 and	 talented	 artists,	 especially	 in	 the	 electronics	 media.	 Many	 rock
stars,	movie	actors,	and	 television	personalities	have	Uranus	 in	 the	5th	House.
An	 afflicted	 Uranus	 can	 instill	 antisocial	 behavior	 and	 a	 taste	 for	 unsavory
forms	 of	 excitement.	 In	 marriage,	 an	 afflicted	 Uranus	 can	 mean	 extramarital
affairs.	 In	 a	 woman's	 chart,	 there	 is	 a	 strong	 likelihood	 of	 pregnancy	 out	 of
wedlock.

Uranus	in	the	6th	House
Uranus	in	the	6th	House	indicates	innovative	and	advanced	methods	employed
in	 the	 name	 of	 both	 work	 and	 service.	 This	 can	 take	 the	 form	 of	 alternative
approaches	 to	 healing,	medicine,	 and	 diet,	 as	 well	 as	 working	with	 advanced
technology.	Computer	programmers	and	electronic	engineers	often	have	Uranus
in	the	6th	House.	Mathematical	and	scientific	skills	are	indicative	of	Uranus	in
this	 house.	 Often,	 friends	 are	 made	 through	 work,	 as	 relationships	 with
coworkers,	employers,	and	employees	are	amicable	and	mentally	stimulating.	If
Uranus	 is	 afflicted	 here,	 these	 relationships	 can	be	 the	 exact	 opposite,	 riddled
with	 conflict	 and	 strife.	 These	 people	 are	 highly	 sensitive	 to	 their	 working
conditions	 and	 relationships	 and	 will	 leave	 a	 job	 if	 these	 are	 unsatisfactory.
They	require	freedom	to	do	their	work	in	their	own	way	and	will	rebel	against
strict	 or	 rigid	 supervision.	 Uranus	 in	 the	 6th	House	 can	 indicate	 involvement
with	labor	unions.	If	Uranus	is	afflicted,	employment	can	be	unstable,	changing
often	and	ending	suddenly.	Ill	health	can	result	from	excessive	nervousness.



Uranus	in	the	7th	House
With	Uranus	in	the	7th	House,	there	is	a	strong	desire	for	freedom	in	marriage
and	other	personal	relationships.	If	Uranus	is	afflicted,	divorce	is	likely,	as	the
need	for	independence	will	be	far	stronger	than	any	sense	of	commitment	to	the
marriage.	Marriage	 is	 often	 sudden	 and	 under	 unusual	 circumstances,	 and	 the
spouse	is	often	eccentric	or	brilliant	in	some	regard.	Other	relationships	tend	to
be	either	very	close	or	superficial,	 shallow,	and	fleeting.	Mercurial	changes	of
mood,	attitudes,	and	opinions	can	leave	others	angry	and	confused.

Uranus	in	the	8th	House
Uranus	 in	 the	 8th	 House	 denotes	 a	 quest	 for	 freedom	 of	 expression	 through
esoteric	 traditions	 and/or	 sexuality.	 As	 the	 8th	 House	 involves	 other	 people's
resources,	the	individual	may	receive	an	unexpected	inheritance	or	benefit	from
his	or	her	business	or	marriage	partners.	Uranus	in	the	8th	can	also	indicate	an
intense	and	unusual	dream	 life,	 and	people	with	 this	placement	are	often	very
intuitive.

Uranus	in	the	9th	House
Uranus	in	the	9th	House	confers	highly	evolved,	advanced,	and	innovative	ideas
in	 regard	 to	 philosophy,	 religion,	 and	 higher	 education.	 Ideas	 about	 education
will	 be	 especially	 progressive,	 with	 interest	 in	 new	 methods	 of	 teaching.
Religious	 views	 are	 often	 unorthodox,	 with	 an	 interest	 in	 the	 occult	 and	 the
esoteric.	 These	 individuals	 are	 likely	 to	 travel	 far	 and	wide	 in	 search	 of	 new
experiences	 and	 ideas.	 They	 have	 a	 keen	 interest	 in	 the	 remote	 past	 and	 the
distant	 future.	 An	 afflicted	 Uranus	 here	 can	 mean	 a	 fanatical	 adherence	 to
superstitious	cults	and	political	dogmas.

Uranus	in	the	10th	House
Uranus	 in	 the	 10th	 House	 often	 indicates	 an	 unusual	 profession	 and	 an
outstanding	or	unique	reputation	within	its	ranks.	These	individuals	are	apt	to	be
leaders	 and	 innovators	 in	 their	 chosen	 fields.	 They	 are	 generally	 politically
liberal	 or	 radical,	 almost	 certainly	 never	 conservative.	 These	 people	 have	 a
driving	ambition	to	achieve	prominence	and	make	unique	contributions	in	their
professions.	 However,	 changes	 in	 fortune	 can	 be	 sudden	 and	 drastic.	 An
afflicted	 Uranus	 can	 be	 evident	 in	 political	 extremism	 and	 revolutionary
tendencies	and	may	also	 indicate	a	sudden	rise	followed	by	an	equally	sudden
fall.

Uranus	in	the	11th	House



Uranus	in	the	11th	House
Those	with	Uranus	in	the	11th	House,	which	corresponds	to	Aquarius,	are	open-
minded,	 impartial,	 and	 humanitarian	 in	 their	 outlook.	 They	 have	 little	 to	 no
regard	 for	 traditional	opinions	and	mores	 in	 the	 face	of	objective	 truth,	which
they	 have	 an	 intuitive	 ability	 to	 perceive,	 along	 with	 universal	 laws	 and
principles.	Often,	 they	 have	many	 unusual	 friendships	 and	 group	 associations
that	are	mentally	and	spiritually	stimulating.	They	have	an	 impersonal	attitude
to	 marriage	 and	 romantic	 partnerships,	 possessing	 a	 bohemian	 desire	 for
freedom.	 Their	 desire	 for	 new	 stimulation	 often	 makes	 them	 unwilling	 to	 be
limited	 by	 a	 single	 relationship,	 and	 they	 are	 tolerant	 of	 similar	 attitudes	 and
behavior	 in	others.	If	Uranus	is	afflicted,	friendships	can	be	unstable	and	even
treacherous.	 These	 individuals	 can	 be	 unreliable	 and	 inconsiderate	 regarding
commitments	 to	 friends	 and	 other	 associations.	 Their	 selfish	 motivations	 and
behavior	are	more	than	likely	to	elicit	a	negative	backlash	as	a	result	of	lovers
and	 friends	 feeling	 that	 they	 are	 being	 used,	 disregarded,	 or	 treated	 in	 a
disrespectful	or	offhanded	manner.

Uranus	in	the	12th	House
Uranus	in	the	12th	House	indicates	the	mystical	quest	for	spiritual	identity	and	a
deep	 probing	 into	 the	 hidden	 recesses	 of	 the	 unconscious.	 Interest	 in	 and
understanding	of	esoteric	 teachings	and	practices	 such	as	yoga	and	meditation
are	likely.	Intuitive	and	psychic	abilities	may	be	highly	developed.	If	Uranus	is
afflicted,	 the	 individual	 can	 suffer	 from	 delusions	 and	 a	 general	 confusion
caused	by	neurosis	and	dabbling	in	negative	psychic	practices	and	phenomena.

Aspects	of	Uranus
Aspects	of	Uranus,	as	well	as	the	sign	and	house	position,	are	indicators	of	our
originality	 and	 inventiveness.	 The	 affairs	 ruled	 by	 the	 planets	 aspected	 by
Uranus	are	 subject	 to	 sudden	and	dramatic	 changes,	 as	 a	 result	of	 the	planet's
influence.	 These	 can	 be	 positive	 or	 negative,	 depending	 on	 the	 aspects.	 If
Uranus	 is	 afflicted,	 we	may	 be	 prone	 toward	 erratic,	 unreliable,	 and	 reckless
behavior	 or	 have	 eccentric	 attitudes	 toward	 the	 areas	 of	 life	 under	 Uranus's
influence.	The	 true	 freedom	offered	 by	Uranus	 can	 only	 be	 acquired	 after	we
have	learned	Saturn's	lesson—that	lasting,	life-affirming	freedom	is	earned	only
when	it	is	based	on	self-discipline.

Uranus	Conjunctions
Uranus	 conjunctions	 are	 indicative	 of	 individuals	 who	 are	 original,	 willful,



creative,	 and	 capable	 of	 dynamic	 action.	 Humanitarian	 and	 friendly,	 they	 are
never	bound	by	tradition	and	are	fiercely	independent.	Their	lives	are	marked	by
sudden	changes.	These	attributes	will	be	most	evident	in	the	affairs	ruled	by	the
planet	or	planets	forming	the	conjunction,	and	the	signs	and	houses	Uranus	and
the	planet(s)	occupy	and	rule.

Uranus	Sextiles
Uranus	sextiles	mean	that	the	individual	will	encounter	sudden	opportunities	for
mental	growth	and	expansion	as	a	result	of	his	or	her	openness	and	enthusiasm
for	 new	 ideas.	 These	 people	 are	 clever,	 intuitive,	 and	 often	 scientifically
inclined.	 They	 communicate	 well,	 make	 friends	 easily,	 and	 are	 attracted	 to
groups	and	organizations.	Their	abilities	will	be	manifested	most	strongly	in	the
affairs	 ruled	 by	 the	 planet	 or	 planets	 forming	 the	 sextile	 and	 the	 signs	 and
houses	Uranus	and	the	planet(s)	rule	and	occupy.

Uranus	Squares
Uranus	squares	indicate	individuals	who	are	likely	to	thwart	 their	own	success
through	 instability	 and	 impulsive	 actions.	 They	 tend	 to	 be	 fickle,	 willful,
unreasonable	 and	 obstinate,	 refusing	 to	 heed	 the	 good	 advice	 of	 others	 and
stumbling	blindly	into	catastrophe.	These	tendencies	will	be	most	notable	in	the
affairs	 ruled	 by	 the	 planet	 or	 planets	 that	 form	 the	 square	 and	 the	 signs	 and
houses	that	Uranus	and	the	planet(s)	rule	and	occupy.

Uranus	Trines
Trines	 of	 Uranus	 indicate	 sudden	 and	 unexpected	 good	 fortune.	 These
individuals	are	 intuitive,	creative,	and	original	 in	 the	way	 they	go	about	doing
things	and	will	have	many	friends	and	interesting	and	unusual	adventures.	The
benefits	 of	 this	 configuration	will	 be	most	 evident	 in	 the	 affairs	 ruled	 by	 the
planet	or	planets	forming	the	trine	and	in	the	signs	and	houses	that	Uranus	and
the	planet(s)	rule	and	occupy.

Uranus	Oppositions
Uranus	 oppositions	 denote	 problems	 with	 relationships	 resulting	 from	 a
demanding,	 unreasonable,	 and	 unpredictable	 attitude	 toward	 others.	 These
individuals	 tend	 to	 be	willfully	 erratic,	 unreliable,	 and	 selfishly	 obsessed	with
their	own	personal	desires.	This	will	be	most	evident	in	the	affairs	ruled	by	the
planet	 or	 planets	 that	 oppose	Uranus	 and	 in	 the	 signs	 and	houses	 that	Uranus
and	those	planet(s)	rule	and	occupy.



CHAPTER	13
Neptune

Neptune	is	the	planet	of	mysticism.	Its	power	of	dissolution	can	blur	personal
boundaries,	 making	 us	 aware	 of	 our	 interconnectedness,	 capable	 of	 artistic
accomplishment	 that	 speaks	 to	 many	 people,	 and	 reaching	 the	 heights	 of
spiritual	attainment.	Yet	the	same	dissolving	power	can	lead	us	into	delusion	if
our	self-awareness	and	ego,	represented	by	the	Sun,	are	weak.

Neptune	in	the	Signs
The	 next	 in	 the	 transpersonal	 planets	 after	 Uranus,	 Neptune	 spends	 about
thirteen	 years	 in	 each	 sign.	 Thus,	 the	 sign	 position	 of	 Neptune	 has	 more
generational	significance	than	it	does	personal.

Neptune	in	Aries	(1861/62—1874/75)
Neptune	 in	 Aries	 indicates	 a	 strong	 concern	 with	 mystical	 and	 religious
concepts.	The	initiative	and	drive	for	spiritual	creativity	and	regeneration	mean
that	pioneering	advances	are	made	in	these	fields,	and	it	is	interesting	to	note	the
popularity	of	spiritualism,	the	occult,	Eastern	religions,	and	the	like	among	this
generation	 in	 the	 late	 nineteenth	 and	 early	 twentieth	 centuries.	 Spiritual	 pride
and	 egotism,	 and	 the	 use	 of	 this	 knowledge	 for	 personal	 power	 and	 self-
aggrandizement,	are	the	dark	side	of	this	expression.

Neptune	in	Taurus	(1874/75—1887/89)
Here,	 there	 is	 a	 strong	 idealism	 regarding	 the	 proper	 use	 of	 money	 and
resources,	with	an	active	seeking	of	practical	applications	for	 idealistic	visions
and	theories.	On	the	negative	side,	there	can	be	a	preoccupation	with	money	and
materialism.

Neptune	in	Gemini	(1887/89—1901/02)
This	 is	 the	 generation	 that	 produced	 the	 likes	 of	 Ernest	Hemingway,	William
Faulkner,	F.	Scott	Fitzgerald,	John	Steinbeck,	and	Aldous	Huxley—those	who
have	 much	 to	 do	 with	 giving	 creative	 expression	 to	 the	 intuitive	 and
imagemaking	faculties	of	the	mind	through	poetry	and	literature.	These	people
are	gifted	with	highly	active	and	versatile	imaginations	and	are	able	to	channel
and	communicate	ideas	from	the	collective	consciousness.	When	negative,	there



may	 be	 a	 superficial	 preoccupation	 with	 the	 dream	 world	 and	 confusion	 in
thinking	and	communication.

Neptune	in	Cancer	(1901/2—1914/16)
This	 is	 a	 generation	 with	 strong	 psychic	 ties	 to	 home	 (including	 their	 native
country),	family,	and	the	earth.	They	are	emotionally	sensitive	and	sympathetic
and,	if	Neptune	is	strongly	placed	(on	the	cusp	of	the	4th	House	or	in	the	12th)
and	 aspected,	 can	 have	 psychic	 and	 mediumistic	 tendencies.	 When	 negative,
there	can	be	maudlin	sentimentality	and	an	exclusive	attachment	to	family	and
country.

Neptune	in	Leo	(1914/16–1928/29)
This	 is	 a	 generation	 with	 strong	 musical	 and	 artistic	 talents,	 with	 a	 special
interest	in	the	theater	and	other	performing	arts.	Neptune	in	Leo	is	also	strongly
inclined	 to	 romantic	 idealism	 in	 love	and	courtship.	On	 the	negative	 side,	 this
romanticism	 can	 lead	 to	 self-delusion	 in	 matters	 of	 the	 heart,	 along	 with
extravagant	 spending	 in	 pursuit	 of	 pleasure	 and	 impracticality	 in	 dealing	with
children.	 Neptune	 was	 in	 Leo	 during	 the	 Roaring	 Twenties,	 that	 period	 of
opulent	extravagance,	wild	carousing,	and	reckless	stock	speculation	which	led
directly	to	the	stock	market	crash	of	1929	and	the	Great	Depression.	As	F.	Scott
Fitzgerald	wrote	at	the	time,	“I	have	lost	my	glittering	mirage.”	Neptune	is	the
planet	 of	 illusions.	 The	 movie	 industry	 is	 also	 included	 under	 its	 rulership.
Uranus	was	in	Pisces	during	this	same	period,	in	which	the	movie	industry	was
born	 along	 with	 the	 seminal	 artistic	 and	 literary	 movements	 of	 the	 twentieth
century.	 Also	 notable	 during	 this	 time	 was	 the	 publication	 of	 C.	 G.	 Jung's
original	 insights	 into	 the	 unconscious	 and	 the	 process	 of	 individuation	 (	 Jung
himself	was	a	Leo).

Neptune	in	Virgo	(1928/29—1942/43)
Neptune	 is	 in	 its	 detriment	 in	 Virgo,	 the	 opposite	 sign	 of	 Pisces,	 of	 which
Neptune	 is	 one	 of	 the	 rulers.	 This	 is	 a	 generation	 whose	 creative	 and
imaginative	 faculties	 and	 endeavors	 are	 blocked	 by	 adverse	 material
circumstances.	Neptune	was	 in	Virgo	 through	 the	Great	Depression,	 a	 time	of
mass	 unemployment	 and	 poverty.	 Employment	 is	 ruled	 by	Virgo.	Neptune	 in
Virgo	can	also	cause	psychosomatic	 illnesses	and	doubt	and	negativity	 toward
intuitive	 and	 emotional	 responses.	There	 can	 be	 an	 overconcern,	 perhaps	 as	 a
result	 of	 insecurity	 and	 deprivation,	 with	 materialistic	 values,	 as	 well	 as	 an
excessive	 preoccupation	with	 unimportant	 details.	Unhealthy	 dietary	 practices



are	also	another	manifestation	of	Neptune	in	Virgo,	and	it	was	during	this	time
that	much	of	the	chemical	adulteration	of	our	food	supply	began.

Neptune	in	Libra	(1942/43—1955/57)
Neptune	in	Libra	has	a	natural	instinct	for	emotional	and	social	conformity.	On
the	 negative	 side,	 this	 can	 mean	 a	 blind	 adherence	 to	 social	 movements	 and
trends.	However,	there	is	also	a	strong	intuitive	awareness	of	social	relationships
and	responsibilities.	Mutual	social	responsibility	is	based	more	on	the	spirit	than
the	letter	of	the	law.	Neptune	in	Libra	can	give	rise	to	new	forms	of	art.

Neptune	in	Scorpio	(1955/57—1970)
Scorpio	is	the	sex	sign,	and	Neptune	rules	drugs.	Neptune	in	Scorpio	is	a	period
in	which	the	natural	desires	are	exploited.	There	is	much	emotional	intensity	and
confusion,	causing	the	turmoil	within	the	unconscious	to	break	out.	This	period
was	 marked	 by	 the	 exploitation	 of	 sex	 for	 commercial	 purposes.	Many	 were
tainted	 as	 a	 result,	 while	 a	 few	 managed	 to	 experience	 a	 spiritual	 epiphany
leading	 to	 a	 search	 into	 life's	 inner	 mysteries.	 Sexual	 permissiveness	 and
promiscuity	 led	 to	 the	 widespread	 outbreak	 of	 venereal	 diseases,	 along	 with
drug	use	as	a	means	of	psychological	escape.

Neptune	in	Sagittarius	(1970—1984)
Neptune	in	Sagittarius	signifies	a	period	of	higher	spiritual	and	religious	values
and	an	intuitive	exploration	of	the	mysteries	of	the	mind.	There	is	much	foreign
travel	and	exchange	of	ideas,	and	artistic	expression	is	also	spiritually	oriented.
The	negative	manifestations	of	 this	period	 tend	 to	be	aimless	wandering,	both
physically	 and	 mentally,	 and	 fanatical	 adherence	 to	 wrongminded	 religious
cults,	false	prophets,	and	charlatan	gurus.

Neptune	in	Capricorn	(1984—2000)
This	 is	 a	 period	 in	which	world	governments	 are	 in	 chaos,	 and	 economic	 and
political	 structures	are	 in	upheaval.	 In	our	 time,	 it	 is	 the	karmic	summation	of
the	 Piscean	 Age,	 out	 of	 which	 many	 reach	 new	 heights	 of	 spiritual
enlightenment	and	the	new	Aquarian	Age	is	born.	Spiritual	responsibility	for	the
world	 is	 here	 expressed	 in	 practical	 ways.	 Some	 astrologers	 believe	 that	 this
period	has	already	heralded	the	beginnings	of	world	government.

Neptune	in	Aquarius	(2000—2013)



Neptune	 entered	 Aquarius	 along	 with	 Uranus	 in	 2000,	 marking	 the	 true
beginning	 of	 the	 Aquarian	 Age.	 It	 is	 supposed	 to	 see	 the	 birth	 of	 a	 new
civilization	based	on	humanitarianism,	globalization,	science,	and	technology.

Neptune	in	Pisces	(2013—2026)
This	will	be	a	time	of	peace	following	the	upheavals	of	the	birth	of	the	Aquarian
Age.	 The	 highest	 form	 of	 Aquarian	 culture	 will	 begin,	 making	 use	 of	 the
greatest	accomplishments	of	the	Piscean	Age,	expressing	itself	in	exalted	forms
of	music	 and	 art.	Great	 strides	will	 be	made	 in	medicine	 and	 healing.	During
this	 period	many	 great	 artists,	 mystics,	 teachers,	 and	 spiritual	 leaders	 will	 be
born.

Neptune	in	the	Houses
Neptune	 in	 the	 houses	 indicates	 how	 we	 use	 our	 imagemaking	 faculties	 or
ability	 to	visualize.	 It	points	 to	 those	circumstances	 in	 life	 that	are	affected	by
dreams,	premonitions,	and	deep	intuitive	insights.	It	also	indicates	the	meaning
and	 nature	 of	 the	 karma	 produced	 by	 our	 past	 actions.	 When	 Neptune	 is
afflicted,	its	house	position	shows	those	areas	in	life	in	which	we	may	be	prone
to	self-delusion	and	being	unrealistic.

Neptune	in	the	1st	House
Those	 with	 Neptune	 in	 the	 1st	 House,	 the	 house	 of	 the	 I	 am,	 have	 a	 strong,
sensitive,	and	intuitive	awareness	of	self	and	environment.	A	strongly	aspected
Neptune	 can	 confer	 clairvoyant	 abilities	 and	 a	 deep	 understanding	 of	 the
motives	 underlying	 human	 actions	 and	 events.	 When	 positively	 aspected,
inspired	mystical	visions	are	a	distinct	possibility,	as	well	as	significant	artistic
and	musical	 talents.	 If	Neptune	 is	 afflicted	 here,	 there	 is	 the	 danger	 of	 being
susceptible	to	negative	psychic	influences	and	forces,	and	the	use	of	drugs	and
alcohol	 should	 be	 assiduously	 avoided.	 An	 afflicted	 Neptune	 here	 can	 cause
unreliability,	self-delusion,	alcoholism,	drug	addiction,	and	a	loose	and	aimless
lifestyle.

Neptune	in	the	2nd	House
Those	with	Neptune	in	the	2nd	House	are	idealistic	about	the	use	of	money	and
material	resources.	They	are	prone	to	donate	generously	to	humanitarian	causes
and	 be	 liberal	 with	 their	 material	 resources.	 If	 Neptune	 is	 well	 aspected,	 the
individual	 will	 have	 an	 intuitive	 ability	 to	 make	 money	 and	 acquire	 wealth.
These	 individuals	 tend	 be	 extravagant,	 and	money	may	 come	 and	 go	 through



mysterious	or	unusual	circumstances.	If	Neptune	is	afflicted	here,	they	can	find
themselves	 frequently	 in	 a	 financial	 muddle.	 They	 may	 be	 impractical,	 lazy
about,	or	slow	to	choose	 their	means	of	earning	a	 living,	 relying	on	others	 for
financial	support.

Neptune	in	the	3rd	House
Those	 with	 Neptune	 in	 the	 3rd	 House	 have	 a	 great	 capacity	 for	 mental
visualization,	 especially	 if	 Neptune	 aspects	 Mercury.	 Telepathic	 abilities	 are
often	 an	 attribute	 of	 Neptune	 in	 the	 3rd	 House,	 making	 them	 channels	 of
information	that	they	are	compelled	to	share	impartially	with	others.	If	Neptune
is	well	aspected,	intuition	can	be	put	to	practical	use,	especially	if	Neptune	is	in
an	 earth	 sign.	 An	 afflicted	 Neptune	 may	 indicate	 learning	 difficulties,
absentmindedness,	and	a	tendency	to	become	lost	 in	fantasy	and	daydreaming.
There	may	 be	misunderstandings	 or	 conflicts	with	 siblings	 and	 neighbors	 and
confusion	 in	 communication,	 especially	when	 traveling.	 Great	 care	 should	 be
exercised	in	making	contracts	and	agreements.

Neptune	in	the	4th	House
With	Neptune	in	the	4th	House,	there	will	be	strong	unconscious	emotional	ties
to	home	and	 family	 that	 are	karmic	 in	nature.	People	with	Neptune	 in	 the	4th
House	 often	 live	 near	water	 and	 have	 strong	 feelings	 for	 the	 land	 and	 nature.
Family	 secrets	 and	 mysteries	 surrounding	 aspects	 of	 home	 life	 are	 common.
These	people	have	a	deep	desire	to	mother	the	world	and	often	bring	strays	and
strangers	 into	 their	 homes.	 An	 afflicted	 Neptune	 can	 cause	 confused	 family
relationships	 and	 a	 chaotic	 domestic	 environment.	 Neurosis	 from	 difficulties
with	 parents	 and	 other	 family	 members	 can	 arise,	 and	 emotionally	 based
nervous	disorders	that	are	difficult	to	diagnose	may	develop	later	in	life.

Neptune	in	the	5th	House
Those	with	Neptune	in	the	5th	House	have	a	strong	unconscious	desire	for	love
and	 appreciation	 through	 romance	 and	 creative	 self-expression.	 They	 are
naturally	 gifted	 performers,	 with	 a	 general	 love	 of	 the	 theater.	 Unusual
circumstances	 often	 surround	 romantic	 and	 sexual	 involvements.	 An	 afflicted
Neptune	 can	 indicate	 secret	 love	 affairs	 and	 sexual	 entanglements.
Disappointments	 in	 love	 are	 likely.	 A	 wellaspected	 Neptune	 often	 means
intuitive	 insight	 into	 the	workings	 of	 the	 stock	market,	 although	 these	 people
need	 to	 be	 cautious	with	 investments	 and	 speculations.	Their	 children	will	 be
highly	sensitive	and	intuitive	individuals.	If	Neptune	is	afflicted,	however,	their



children	 may	 suffer	 from	 psychological	 problems	 and	 be	 hard	 to	 cope	 with.
Children	may	also	be	adopted	or	born	out	of	wedlock.	An	afflicted	Neptune	can
also	indicate	a	broken	family	from	which	the	children	suffer.

Neptune	in	the	6th	House
Neptune	in	the	6th	House	puts	spiritual	emphasis	on	work	and	service.	Neptune
is	 in	 its	 detriment	 in	 the	 6th	 House,	 meaning	 that	 many	 sacrifices	 will	 be
demanded	 and	 the	 lessons	 of	 work	 and	 health	 will	 be	 difficult	 to	 learn.	 A
wellaspected	Neptune,	however,	can	provide	an	intuitive	understanding	of	how
to	work	efficiently	and	effectively.	These	individuals	may	well	be	interested	in
alternative	 medicine	 (especially	 homeopathy	 and	 other	 vibrational	 therapies),
diet,	and	spiritual	healing.	There	is	a	strong	inclination	to	care	for	animals	and
even	 communicate	with	 them	 telepathically.	An	 afflicted	Neptune	 can	 subject
the	individual	to	psychosomatic	illnesses	and	infections	that	are	hard	to	cure,	as
well	 as	 hypochondria	 and	 mental	 illness.	 Also,	 unemployment	 and
unsatisfactory	 working	 conditions	 and	 relationships	 are	 likely.	 If	 Neptune	 is
well	aspected,	working	conditions	will	be	harmonious,	and	 there	will	be	close
emotional	 bonds	 with	 coworkers,	 employees,	 and	 employers.	 Work	 may	 be
related	to	psychotherapy.	These	individuals	often	work	in	hospitals,	schools,	and
other	large	institutions.

Neptune	in	the	7th	House
Neptune	in	the	7th	House	indicates	that	there	are	strong	karmic	connections	in
marriage	 and	 partnerships.	 There	 may	 even	 be	 a	 tight	 psychic	 link	 with	 the
spouse	and	an	intuitive	understanding	of	people	in	general.	Those	with	Neptune
in	the	7th	House	are	highly	sensitive	to	the	moods	and	feelings	of	those	around
them.	When	Neptune	 is	well	 aspected,	 spiritual	values	are	applied	 to	 relations
with	others,	manifested	as	compassion	and	understanding.	The	achievement	of
an	 ideal	 spiritual	 marriage	 is	 a	 distinct	 possibility.	 If	 Neptune	 is	 afflicted,
emotional	confusion	can	cause	difficulties	 in	marriage,	 and	 individuals	can	be
easily	 deceived	 and	 misled	 by	 others.	 They	 can	 also	 be	 vague	 or	 unreliable
concerning	partnerships	and	social	responsibilities.	When	badly	afflicted,	these
people	can	themselves	be	deliberately	deceptive	or	psychologically	twisted,	and
there	is	a	strong	possibility	of	lawsuits	and	public	scandal.

Neptune	in	the	8th	House
Neptune	in	the	8th	House	indicates	powerful	psychic	tendencies,	often	with	an
interest	in	the	occult	and	spiritualism	or	communication	with	the	dead.	Secretive



or	deceptive	circumstances	may	surround	a	partner's	money	and	financial	assets.
A	wellaspected	Neptune	can	confer	clairvoyant	abilities.	An	afflicted	8th-House
Neptune	 can	 indicate	 mysterious	 and	 bizarre	 losses	 and	 difficulties	 with	 a
partner's	 finances,	 often	 caused	 by	 deception	 either	 by	 the	 individual	 or	 some
other	party	or	parties	involved.	This	can	be	particularly	true	in	financial	matters
surrounding	death.

Neptune	in	the	9th	House
Neptune	in	the	9th	House	shows	a	keen	interest	in	mysticism	and	religion.	This
is	 a	 highly	 impressionable	 mind,	 capable	 of	 intuitive	 insights	 and	 prophetic
visions.	 An	 afflicted	 9th-House	 Neptune	 can	 mean	 fanatical	 adherence	 to
dubious	cults	and	spiritual	leaders.	The	individual	may	also	be	impractical	about
obtaining	a	proper	education,	neglecting	 to	finish	or	get	 the	necessary	 training
required	for	a	job;	marriage	will	bring	problems	with	relatives.

Neptune	in	the	10th	House
Here,	 intuition	 will	 play	 an	 important	 part	 in	 the	 individual's	 career.	 It	 is
considered	an	excellent	position	for	psychiatrists,	psychologists,	and	ministers.
One	 of	 the	 parents	 is	 likely	 to	 be	 unusual	 in	 some	way,	 and	 the	 10th-House
Neptune	 individual's	 work	 will	 be	 unusual	 and	 surrounded	 by	 strange
circumstances.	 Many	 actors,	 artists,	 and	 musicians	 have	 Neptune	 in	 the	 10th
House.	 A	 wellaspected	 Neptune	 can	 bring	 honor	 as	 a	 result	 of	 outstanding
personal	 achievement	 or	 sacrifice.	 An	 afflicted	 Neptune	 can	 indicate
professional	 ineptitude	and	 impracticality,	often	 resulting	 in	an	 inability	 to	get
along	 with	 employers.	 Scandal	 or	 loss	 of	 reputation	 may	 also	 result	 from
dishonesty	or	irresponsibility	on	the	job.

Neptune	in	the	11th	House
With	Neptune	in	the	11th	House,	there	will	be	idealistic	and	unusual	friendships
and	 group	 associations,	 with	whom	 the	 individual	 forms	 close	 spiritual	 links.
These	 individuals	 are	 generous	with	 friends,	 from	whom	 they	 in	 turn	 receive
spiritual	 guidance	 and	 assistance	 in	 the	 realization	 of	 their	 goals.	 They	 are
sensitive	to	the	needs	of	humanity	and	may	join	philanthropic	or	spiritual	groups
and	organizations.	If	Neptune	is	afflicted,	friendships	can	be	unreliable	and	so-
called	friends	can	even	become	secret	enemies.	Unwholesome	associations	can
lead	to	self-undoing,	and	there	is	a	danger	of	alcoholism	and	drug	abuse.	These
people	must	learn	to	be	discriminating	in	their	choice	of	friends	and	associates.
An	afflicted	Neptune	can	also	mean	an	impractical	and	misguided	idealism.



Neptune	in	the	12th	House
Here,	 Neptune	 confers	 a	 strong	 intuitive	 link	 to	 the	 deep	 unconscious,	 often
resulting	 in	mystical	 religious	 tendencies.	 These	 individuals	will	 tend	 to	 seek
seclusion	and	privacy	in	order	to	expedite	the	inner	spiritual	search.	They	have	a
sense	of	memories	from	previous	incarnations	and	gain	much	spiritual	wisdom
from	this	intuitive	link	to	the	past.	A	wellaspected	Neptune	confers	clairvoyant
and	 healing	 abilities,	 along	 with	 literary,	 artistic,	 and	 musical	 talents.	 An
afflicted	 Neptune	 may	 result	 in	 a	 dark	 and	 neurotic	 preoccupation	 with	 the
problems	of	the	past,	creating	mental	and	emotional	confusion	and	a	subjective
withdrawal	from	the	affairs	of	daily	practical	life.	An	afflicted	Neptune	in	Pisces
can	make	these	people	extremely	vulnerable	to	deeply	rooted	unconscious	fears
and	neurosis.

Aspects	of	Neptune
Aspects	of	Neptune,	along	with	the	house	and	sign	position,	indicate	those	areas
in	our	life	that	can	be	directly	affected	by	psychic	or	transcendental	influences.
When	well	aspected,	this	often	expresses	itself	through	art	and	music.	Neptune
rules	 the	 film	 industry,	 an	 art	 and	 industry	 of	 visual	 illusions,	 and	 this
expression	 also	 takes	 the	 form	 of	 drama,	 photography,	 and	 cinematography.
Suffice	 it	 to	 say	 that	 spiritual	 inspiration	manifests	 itself	 through	 a	 talent	 for
imagery.	 Often,	 people	 with	 Neptune	 aspects	 are	 capable	 of	 sending	 and
receiving	visual	images	telepathically.	If	Neptune	is	afflicted,	self-deception	and
unrealistic	goals	 and	desires	will	 plague	 the	 individual	 in	 regard	 to	 the	 affairs
ruled	by	the	planets	afflicting	it,	along	with	the	signs	and	houses	that	Neptune
and	the	planet(s)	occupy	and	rule.

Neptune	Conjunctions
Conjunctions	 of	 Neptune	 indicate	 great	 depth	 of	 emotional	 and	 spiritual
comprehension	 and	 compassion.	 Often,	 these	 individuals	 have	 strong	 psychic
abilities,	 and	 their	 mystical	 tendencies	 and	 attitudes	 can	 make	 them	 seem
otherworldly	and	their	actions	at	times	difficult	to	comprehend,	although,	in	the
end,	those	very	same	actions	end	up	making	a	strange	kind	of	sense	beyond	the
veil	 of	 the	mundane	world.	 If	 the	 conjunction	 is	 afflicted,	 the	 individuals	 can
suffer	 from	 delusions	 and	 tend	 to	 ignore	 reality.	 These	 characteristics	will	 be
manifested	in	the	affairs	ruled	by	the	planet	or	planets	conjuncting	Neptune,	and
the	 signs	 and	 houses	 occupied	 and	 ruled	 by	 Neptune	 and	 the	 conjuncting
planet(s).

Neptune	Sextiles



Neptune	Sextiles
Neptune	sextiles	indicate	opportunities	for	mental	and	spiritual	growth	through
the	 creative	 use	 of	 the	 imagination.	 This	 may	 be	 expressed	 through	 writing,
communication,	 friendships,	 and	 group	 associations	 that	 embrace	 idealistic
causes.	These	proclivities	will	be	most	evident	in	the	affairs	ruled	by	the	planet
or	 planets	 forming	 the	 sextile	 and	 the	 signs	 and	 houses	 that	Neptune	 and	 the
planet(s)	rule	and	occupy.

Neptune	Squares
Squares	of	Neptune	are	 indicative	of	confusion	and	destructive	 tendencies	 that
are	 the	 product	 of	 neuroses	 and	 negative	 conditioning.	 There	 is	 a	 strong
inclination	 to	 avoid	 responsibility	 and	 facing	 reality,	 sometimes	 manifesting
itself	 as	 alcohol	 and	drug	abuse.	These	 tendencies	will	be	most	 evident	 in	 the
affairs	ruled	by	the	planet	or	planets	that	form	the	square	with	Neptune,	and	the
signs	and	houses	Neptune	and	the	planet(s)	rule	and	occupy.

Neptune	Trines
Neptune	 trines	 indicate	 good	 fortune	 and	 gain	 through	 the	 creative	 use	 of	 the
imagination,	 as	 well	 as	 a	 capacity	 for	 deep	 spiritual	 insight.	 These
characteristics	will	be	manifested	most	strongly	in	the	affairs	ruled	by	the	planet
or	planets	that	trine	Neptune	and	the	signs	and	houses	Neptune	and	the	planet(s)
occupy	and	rule.

Neptune	Oppositions
Neptune	oppositions	 indicate	 that	 there	will	be	 relationship	problems	 resulting
from	 the	 individual	 being	 deceptive	 and	 unreliable,	 tendencies	 that	 stem	 from
deep	psychological	problems.	These	individuals	often	believe	their	own	lies	and
tend	 to	 project	 their	 psychological	 problems	 onto	 others.	 The	 result	 is
misunderstanding	and	confusion,	as	others	never	know	where	they	stand	or	what
the	truth	is.	This	will	be	most	evident	in	the	affairs	ruled	by	the	planet	or	planets
that	oppose	Neptune	and	the	signs	and	houses	Neptune	and	the	planet(s)	occupy
and	rule.



CHAPTER	14
PLUTO

Pluto's	orbit	 is	so	elusive	and	erratic	that	although	astronomers	were	noticing
its	effects	upon	Uranus	(discovered	in	1781)	and	Neptune	(discovered	in	1846),
it	 wasn't	 pinpointed	 until	 1930.	 Its	 secretive	 nature	 makes	 it	 an	 apt	 ruler	 for
Scorpio.	Pluto,	the	Lord	of	the	Underworld,	rules	death	and	transformation	and
the	wielding	of	power.

Pluto	in	the	Signs
Pluto	 is	 the	 slowest	moving	of	 the	planets,	 taking	 approximately	248	years	 to
make	 a	 complete	 transit	 through	 the	 Zodiac.	 Due	 to	 its	 eccentric	 orbit,	 the
number	of	years	it	spends	in	each	sign	varies	from	twelve	to	thirty-two.	Along
with	Uranus	and	Neptune,	 its	 sign	position	 is	more	historical	and	generational
than	personal.

Pluto	in	Aries	(1823—1852)
Aries	is	the	sign	of	individual	will	and	new	experience,	the	beginning	of	a	new
cycle	of	action.	Pluto	 in	Aries	saw	the	American	expansion	 into	 the	West	and
the	golden	age	of	the	pioneer,	a	period	of	both	dauntless	courage	in	the	name	of
freedom	and	settling	a	new	frontier	and	ruthless	violence	and	bloodshed	in	the
struggle	for	land	and	riches.	In	Europe	and	Asia,	revolutionary	movements	(the
revolutions	 of	 1848	 in	 Europe,	 the	 Taiping	 Rebellion	 in	 China)	 heralded	 the
beginning	of	the	overthrow	of	the	ancient	order	in	the	name	of	the	new.

Pluto	in	Taurus	(1852—1884)
Taurus	 is	 the	 sign	 of	material	 resources	 and	monetary	 concerns,	 and	 Pluto	 in
Taurus	marked	 a	 period	 of	 great	 economic	 expansion	 in	 which	 the	 Industrial
Revolution	reached	its	peak	and	corporations	came	into	being.

Pluto	in	Gemini	(1884—1914)
Gemini	rules	ideas,	communication,	and	inventiveness,	and	Pluto	in	Gemini	was
a	period	of	great	scientific	discoveries	and	important	inventions.	The	discovery
and	 harnessing	 of	 electricity	 set	 the	 stage	 for	 the	 development	 of	 modern
technology	 and	 communications.	 The	 telephone,	 automobile,	 and	 airplane	 are
among	the	many	significant	inventions	of	this	period.

Pluto	in	Cancer	(1914—1939)



Pluto	in	Cancer	(1914—1939)
Cancer	is	the	sign	of	the	Mother,	the	home,	land,	environment,	food	production,
and	personal	and	instinctive	emotional	expression.	Pluto	in	Cancer	was	a	time	of
economic	struggle	and	the	growth	of	strong	nationalist	sentiment	that	led	finally
to	 the	 outbreak	 of	 WWII.	 It	 also	 saw	 a	 revolution	 in	 agriculture	 with	 the
building	of	dams	and	the	introduction	of	pesticides	and	chemical	fertilizers.	The
threats	to	family	and	national	security	gave	birth	to	new	political	philosophies—
the	 New	 Deal	 in	 the	 United	 States,	 fascism	 in	 Europe	 and	 Japan,	 and
communism	in	Russia	and	China.

Pluto	in	Leo	(1939—1957)
Leo	is	the	sign	of	expressive	will,	power,	and	leadership.	Pluto	in	Leo	saw	the
outbreak	of	WWII	and	a	renewed	thrust	for	world	domination,	the	development
of	 atomic	 energy	 (ruled	 by	 Pluto),	 and	 the	 unleashing	 of	 the	 atomic	 bomb.
Humanity	faced	the	possibility	of	the	total	destruction	of	civilization	alongside
the	heights	of	technological	achievement	and	the	harnessing	of	awesome	power.
The	end	of	WWII	gave	birth	to	many	new	sovereign	nations	from	the	ashes	of
the	old	colonial	empires	and	the	global	power	struggle	between	capitalism	and
communism.

Pluto	in	Virgo	(1957—1972)
Virgo	 is	 the	 sign	 of	 work,	 service,	 health,	 and	 the	 practical	 application	 of
technology.	 Pluto	 in	 Virgo	 marked	 a	 period	 of	 revolutionary	 changes	 in
industry,	 employment,	 and	 medicine.	 Computers	 revolutionized	 science,
business,	and	industry;	automation	replaced	many	workers;	and	great	strides	and
discoveries	were	made	 in	medicine	and	science.	America	 landed	 the	 first	man
on	 the	 Moon.	 The	 development	 of	 prepackaged	 food	 and	 the	 chemical
adulteration	 and	 pollution	 of	 the	 food	 supply	 led	 to	 the	widespread	 advocacy
and	promotion	of	organic	food	in	the	1960s,	while	at	the	same	time	psychedelic
drugs	opened	up	formerly	unknown	realms	of	consciousness	that	brought	about
massive	 social	 upheavals.	 Pluto	 rules	 Scorpio,	 the	 sign	 of	 sexuality	 and
reproductive	health,	and	this	period	saw	the	development	of	birth	control	and	a
new	sexual	morality.

Pluto	in	Libra	(1972—1984)
Libra	is	the	sign	of	justice,	human	relations,	social	expression,	and	psychology.
Pluto	 in	 Libra	 saw	 the	 awakening	 of	 a	 new	 consciousness	 of	 social
responsibility	 and	 the	 development	 of	 new	 concepts	 of	 marriage,	 law,	 and



justice.	 Civil	 rights	 laws	 were	 strengthened,	 divorce	 was	 made	 easier,	 and
America's	involvement	in	Vietnam	ended	during	this	period,	largely	due	to	the
growing	antiwar	movement	both	at	home	and	abroad.

Pluto	in	Scorpio	(1984—2000)
Pluto	 has	 its	 fastest	 orbital	 motion	 while	 passing	 through	 Libra	 and	 Scorpio.
Pluto	rules	Scorpio,	the	sign	of	death	and	rebirth.	This	is	by	far	the	most	potent
of	 all	 the	 planetary	 sign	 positions,	marking	 the	 end	 of	 the	Piscean	Age	 and	 a
period	 in	 which	 the	 consequences	 of	 human	 action	 or	 inaction	 will	 be	 felt
profoundly	on	a	grand	scale.	According	 to	astrological	 lore,	 this	 is	a	period	 in
which	 the	 danger	 of	 plague,	 famine,	 and	 biological	 and	 atomic	warfare	 are	 at
their	 highest.	 Humanity	 is	 forced	 by	 necessity	 to	 change	 and	 regenerate	 in
preparation	for	the	Age	of	Aquarius,	which	began	in	2000.

Pluto	in	Sagittarius	(2000—?)
Sagittarius	is	the	sign	of	religion,	law,	philosophy	and	education,	of	ideas	ruling
action.	Pluto	in	Sagittarius	marks	the	beginning	of	a	new	age	of	enlightenment
and	 spiritual	 regeneration.	 New	 spiritual	 leaders	 will	 arise	 to	 teach	 the
fundamental	laws	governing	life	and	the	universe,	and	new	scientific	discoveries
and	 theories	 will	 result	 in	 a	 more	 comprehensive	 understanding	 of	 the
underlying	 forces	 behind	 all	 existence.	 A	 recent	 example	 of	 this	 is	 String
Theory,	which,	interestingly	enough,	harkens	back	to	the	theories	of	Pythagoras.

Pluto	in	Capricorn	(1762—1777)
Capricorn	 is	 the	 sign	 dealing	 with	 political	 and	 economic	 power	 structures,
ambition,	 status,	 and	 leadership.	 Pluto	 in	 Capricorn	 saw	 the	 birth	 of	 new
concepts	 of	 government,	 the	 most	 notable	 of	 which	 was	 the	 American
Declaration	of	 Independence	 in	1776.	This	period	saw	 the	birth	of	democratic
governments	 and	 the	 displacement	 of	 aristocratic	 power	 structures.	 Pluto	 in
Capricorn	 manifests	 itself	 as	 a	 dynamic	 and	 practical	 will	 in	 organization,
business,	 and	 government,	 based	 on	 the	 concept	 that	 all	 human	 beings	 are
entitled	 to	 a	 fair	 chance	 to	 develop	 their	 own	 potential	 according	 to	 their
abilities—the	right	to	“life,	liberty,	and	the	pursuit	of	happiness.”

Pluto	in	Aquarius	(1777—1799)
Aquarius	 is	 the	 sign	 of	 group	 associations	 and	 activities,	 science,	 and
humanitarianism.	 Pluto	 in	 Aquarius	 witnessed	 the	 American	 War	 of
Independence	and	the	drafting	of	the	United	States	Constitution	and	the	Bill	of



Rights.	 This	 period	 also	marked	 the	 French	Revolution,	 a	major	 revolt	 of	 the
common	 masses	 (ruled	 by	 Aquarius)	 against	 an	 archaic	 and	 corrupt	 form	 of
government,	 and	 the	 first	 major	 European	 social	 experiment	 in	 political
freedom.	The	next	 transit	of	Pluto	 through	Aquarius	will	be	a	period	of	major
scientific	discovery	and	global	unity.

Pluto	in	Pisces	(1799—1823)
Pisces	 is	 the	 sign	of	 the	deep	unconscious,	mystical	 experience,	 and	 intuitive,
creative	artistic	expression.	Pluto	in	Pisces	was	a	period	of	great	cultural	change
and	 innovation	 that	 saw	 the	 creation	 of	 many	 great	 works	 of	 art	 of	 lasting
meaning	and	value.

Pluto	in	the	Houses
Pluto	 in	 the	 houses	 shows	 those	 areas	 in	 life	 in	 which	 we	 must	 exercise
conscious,	 creative	willpower	over	our	 self	 and	environment.	Pluto	deals	with
issues	of	mass	destiny,	and	its	house	position	shows	the	 individual	effects	and
personal	 interpretations	of	 these	changes	and	how	mass	or	collective	karma	 is
linked	to	individual	karma.

Pluto	in	the	1st	House
This	position	indicates	an	individual	with	an	intense	spiritual	self-awareness	and
strong	willpower.	His	 or	 her	 childhood	 is	 often	marked	 by	 extreme	 hardship,
acquainting	 the	 individual	with	 life's	 struggle	 for	 survival	 at	 an	 early	 age,	 an
experience	 that	 makes	 for	 a	 guarded	 loner	 who	 hides	 his	 or	 her	 innermost
feelings.	Such	a	person	can	seem	aloof	and	difficult	to	get	to	know.	In	physical
appearance,	 1st-House	 Pluto	 people	 can	 have	 a	 robust	 build	 and	 intensely
penetrating	 eyes.	 They	 possess	 considerable	 initiative	 but	 find	 it	 difficult	 to
cooperate	 with	 others	 or	 conform	 to	 traditional	 conduct	 and	 mores.	 Pluto	 is
accidentally	dignified	 in	 the	1st	House,	 for	 it	 is	one	of	 the	 rulers	of	Aries,	 the
“natural	resident”	of	the	1st	House.	Thus,	Pluto	here	confers	a	highly	developed
sense	 of	 personal	 power	 and	 will.	 The	 strong	 individualism	 and	 innate
nonconformity	 of	 this	 position	 can	 make	 it	 difficult	 for	 the	 individual	 to	 get
along	 at	 home,	 in	 marriage,	 and	 in	 professional	 relationships.	 If	 Pluto	 is	 in
conjunction	 with	 the	 Ascendant	 and	 strongly	 aspected,	 the	 individual	 may
possess	clairvoyant	abilities.

Pluto	in	the	2nd	House
Pluto	in	the	2nd	House	confers	a	driving	ambition	to	obtain	money	and	material



resources.	As	Pluto	rules	Scorpio	and	the	8th	House,	which	is	opposite	Taurus
and	 the	2nd	House,	 this	 can	 indicate	 that	 these	ambitions	are	 likely	 to	be	met
through	 the	 use	 of	 other	 people's	money.	A	wellaspected	 Pluto	 here	 connotes
great	 resourcefulness	 in	money-making	 through	 the	 ability	 to	 perceive	 hidden
financial	 possibilities.	 An	 afflicted	 Pluto	 in	 the	 2nd	 House	 can	 indicate
greediness	 and	 selfishness;	 as	 a	 result,	 friends	 can	 be	 lost	 and	 there	 can	 be
trouble	with	 lawsuits	and	 taxes.	The	great	 lesson	of	Pluto	 in	 the	2nd	House	 is
that	material	resources	are	fluid	and	must	be	used	for	the	benefit	of	all.

Pluto	in	the	3rd	House
Pluto	 in	 the	 3rd	House	 bestows	mental	 resourcefulness	 and	 scientific	 abilities
upon	the	individual,	with	an	innate	and	penetrating	comprehension	of	the	causes
underlying	 life's	 experiences	 and	 manifestations.	 Generally,	 these	 individuals
have	 strong	 opinions	 and	 will	 only	 compromise	 their	 beliefs	 in	 the	 face	 of
factual	 evidence	 to	 the	 contrary.	 Often,	 they	 are	 privy	 to	 secret	 or	 exclusive
information	pertaining	to	matters	of	great	importance,	and	what	they	think	and
communicate	 can	have	 serious	 consequences.	They	are	 also	 likely	 to	 travel	 in
secret	and	for	mysterious	reasons	and	have	strange	encounters	and	experiences.
If	 Pluto	 is	 afflicted,	 scheming	 and	 plotting	 can	 cause	 trouble	 with	 siblings,
neighbors,	and	coworkers.

Pluto	in	the	4th	House
Here,	the	individual	is	inclined	to	be	master	of	the	home	and	family.	If	Pluto	is
afflicted,	a	dominating	attitude	is	likely	to	alienate	family	members.	If	Pluto	is
well	 aspected,	 the	 person	 can	 be	 very	 resourceful	 in	 providing	 for	 and
improving	 the	 domestic	 situation,	 as	 well	 as	 possessing	 a	 powerful	 psychic
connection	to	the	earth	that	bestows	an	intuitive	knowledge	of	its	mysteries	and
hidden	 resources.	 An	 afflicted	 Pluto	 here	 can	 mean	 the	 death	 of	 one	 of	 the
parents	 at	 an	 early	 age.	There	may	be	mysterious	 or	 strange	 circumstances	 in
regard	 to	home	and	 family.	There	 is	 also	 the	danger	of	 a	power	 struggle	with
other	members	of	the	family	or	household	residents.

Pluto	in	the	5th	House
Pluto	 in	 the	 5th	 House	 is	 an	 indicator	 of	 creative	 power	 that	 can	 find	 its
expression	 in	 many	 forms—through	 art,	 love,	 procreation,	 and	 nurturing.	 A
wellaspected	Pluto	here	can	inspire	profound	works	of	art.	Spiritual	regeneration
is	experienced	through	love,	and	the	individual's	offspring	can	be	blessed	with
talent,	 genius,	 and	 self-determination.	 If	 Pluto	 is	 afflicted	 here,	 there	 is	 the



danger	of	self-degradation	through	sexual	excess.	The	individual	may	dominate
or	be	dominated	by	the	romantic	partner	and	take	a	severe	attitude	toward	his	or
her	children.	Serious	losses	can	be	incurred	through	speculation.

Pluto	in	the	6th	House
Pluto	in	the	6th	House	confers	an	ability	to	improve	existing	work	methods	and
employment,	and	conscientious	hard	work	 toward	 this	aim	will	bring	financial
gain	and	recognition.	These	people	also	apply	their	will	to	improve	their	health
by	 adopting	 correct	 dietary	 practices,	 exercise,	 and	 mental	 discipline.	 People
involved	in	construction,	salvage,	and	atomic	energy	programs	often	have	Pluto
in	 the	6th	House.	A	badly	afflicted	Pluto	here	can	mean	 that	 serious	attention
must	be	paid	to	personal	health.	There	can	be	a	tendency	to	be	overbearing	and
uncooperative	with	coworkers,	employees,	and	employers,	thus	jeopardizing	job
security,	and	dishonesty	at	work	could	cause	legal	problems.

Pluto	in	the	7th	House
With	 Pluto	 in	 the	 7th	 House,	 the	 individual's	 life	 will	 experience	 drastic
alteration	 as	 a	 result	 of	 marriage	 and	 other	 partnerships,	 both	 personal	 and
professional.	The	individual	 tends	to	attract	a	partner	who	is	strong-willed	and
domineering.	Here,	Pluto	 imbues	a	strong	sense	of	 justice	 that	 reacts	 intensely
against	 the	 wrongdoings	 of	 others.	 If	 Pluto	 is	 well	 aspected,	 there	 can	 be	 a
profound	 intuitive	 insight	 into	 other	 people	 and	 their	 motives.	 Pluto	 being
accidentally	in	its	detriment	in	the	7th	House	indicates	a	tendency	to	dominate
or	to	be	dominated	by	others.	It	is	important	for	those	with	Pluto	in	this	position
to	 strive	 for	 a	 balanced	 sharing	 of	 initiative	 and	 responsibility	 in	 their
relationships	and	dealings	with	others.

Pluto	in	the	8th	House
Pluto	 in	 the	 8th	 House	 confers	 a	 fierce	 and	 powerful	 will	 along	 with	 strong
psychic	 and	 clairvoyant	 abilities.	 These	 people	 have	 an	 innate	 and	 deep
understanding	of	the	transmigration	of	the	soul,	karma,	and	other	issues	of	life
after	physical	death.	This	intuitive	awareness	of	the	invisible	behind	the	visible
can	give	a	profound	insight	into	subjects	that	deal	with	the	nature	of	energy	and
matter,	 such	 as	 physics.	 The	 individual	 is	 also	 often	 able	 to	 rejuvenate	 the
discarded	 resources	 of	 others.	 Life	 is	 taken	 very	 seriously,	 with	 no	 time	 for
trivialities	 and	 often	 a	 severe	 do-or-die	 attitude.	When	Pluto	 is	well	 aspected,
the	 individual	will	 show	 great	 strength	 and	 resourcefulness	 in	 times	 of	 crisis.
Many	 activities	 will	 be	 carried	 out	 secretively,	 revealing	 themselves	 only	 in



their	final	stages.	An	afflicted	Pluto	can	mean	serious	problems	with	a	partner's
finances	and	 the	use	of	underhanded	methods,	 including	manipulative	psychic
powers,	to	gain	control	of	the	resources	of	others.

Pluto	in	the	9th	House
Pluto	 in	 the	 9th	 House	 indicates	 a	 strong	 interest	 in	 improving	 legal,
educational,	moral,	 and	 philosophical	 systems.	 There	 is	 an	 intuitive	 ability	 to
identify	 fundamental	 problems	 within	 the	 larger	 social	 order,	 bestowing	 a
profound	insight	into	the	future	of	humanity.	A	strongly	aspected	Pluto	here	can
mean	the	individual	has	a	capacity	for	spiritual	leadership.	They	can	experience
great	 achievements	 through	 higher	 education	 and	 have	 little	 tolerance	 for
hypocrisy	or	injustice.	Yet,	ambition	to	achieve	distinction,	when	carried	too	far,
can	 result	 in	 excessive	 pride	 and	 competitiveness.	 An	 afflicted	 Pluto	 can
produce	a	religious	fanatic	determined	to	impose	his	or	her	beliefs	upon	others.

Pluto	in	the	10th	House
Pluto	 in	 the	10th	House,	 the	house	 ruled	by	Capricorn,	 indicates	a	 strong	will
and	 a	 relentless	 drive	 to	 succeed.	 There	 is	 an	 equally	 compelling	 desire	 to
reform	and	rehabilitate	existing	power	structures,	which	can	make	for	powerful
friends	 as	 well	 as	 enemies.	 These	 individuals	 are	 often	 misunderstood	 and
controversial	figures.	Crises	in	their	careers	may	well	force	them	to	change	their
professions.	They	can	be	leaders	in	science	as	well	as	politics.	Adept	at	handling
positions	of	power,	this	is	a	favorable	position	for	politicians	and	other	work	in
public	institutions.	When	Pluto	is	well	aspected,	farsightedness	can	lead	to	wise
leadership.	An	afflicted	Pluto	can	cause	dictatorial	 tendencies,	 alienation	 from
others,	and	a	blind	ambition	driven	by	purely	selfish	motives.

Pluto	in	the	11th	House
Here,	 reformist	 tendencies	 are	 expressed	 through	 friendships	 and	 group
associations,	 and	 these	 individuals	 possess	 an	 immense	 capacity	 for	 dynamic
group	 leadership	 through	 which	 scientific	 and	 humanitarian	 advances	 are
achieved.	 Pluto	 is	 accidentally	 in	 its	 detriment	 in	 the	 11th	 House,	 and	 the
individual	must	be	very	careful	about	respecting	the	rights	of	others	and	to	use
his	 or	 her	 will	 cooperatively	 in	 order	 to	 work	 effectively	 within	 the	 group.
Selfish	or	egotistical	motivations	will	 lead	 to	 financial	 losses,	disappointments
in	 love,	 and	 trouble	 over	 joint	 resources	 and	 taxes.	 Health,	 employment,
friendships,	 and	 home	 life	 can	 all	 suffer.	 A	 wellaspected	 Pluto	 can	 confer	 a
penetrating	intuitive	insight	and	scientific	genius.



Pluto	in	the	12th	House
Those	 with	 Pluto	 in	 the	 12th	 House	 have	 profound	 insight	 and	 clairvoyant
abilities.	The	 need	 here	 is	 to	 regenerate	 the	 unconscious	mind	 by	 bringing	 its
contents	into	consciousness.	A	wellaspected	Pluto	here	confers	a	deep	sympathy
and	ability	to	assist	and	improve	the	conditions	of	the	less	fortunate,	along	with
an	intuitive	understanding	of	life's	socalled	occult	mysteries.	These	individuals
are	telepathically	sensitive	to	the	thoughts,	feelings,	and	motives	of	others.	This
may	cause	them	to	withdraw	into	privacy	or	seclusion,	and	to	even	take	covert
action	against	those	who	have	crossed	them	in	some	way.	Mental	preoccupation
with	 their	 own	 problems	 can	 lead	 to	 an	 inability	 to	 get	 along	 with	 others	 at
work.	 An	 afflicted	 Pluto	 can	 also	 indicate	 secret	 enemies	 capable	 of
considerable	 treachery	or	neurotic	problems	and	a	danger	of	 involvement	with
destructive	psychic	forces.

Aspects	of	Pluto
Aspects	of	Pluto,	as	well	as	its	house	and	sign	position,	show	those	areas	in	life
where	we	are	able	to	renew	or	revitalize	our	expression	of	personal	will.	Pluto
represents	 a	 principle	 of	 fundamental	 will	 or	 energy	 that	 is	 capable	 of
completely	altering	the	quality	of	our	life.	This	power	can	be	used	for	good	or
evil,	to	regenerate	or	degrade	the	affairs	ruled	by	the	planets	that	Pluto	aspects,
along	with	 the	 signs	 and	 houses	 that	 Pluto	 and	 the	 planet(s)	 occupy	 and	 rule.
Pluto	 also	 indicates	 how	 our	 lives	 are	 altered	 by	 forces	 beyond	 our	 personal
control.

Pluto	Conjunctions
Pluto	 conjunctions	 indicate	 the	 power	 to	 transform	 one's	 nature	 and	mode	 of
expression.	This	 can	be	 for	better	or	 for	worse.	These	 individuals	have	 strong
wills,	 penetrating	 insight,	 and	 great	 powers	 of	 concentration.	 There	 is	 a
likelihood	of	possessing	an	interest	in	science,	especially	nuclear	physics.	These
qualities	 will	 be	 most	 apparent	 in	 the	 affairs	 ruled	 by	 the	 planet	 or	 planets
forming	 the	conjunction,	and	 the	signs	and	houses	Pluto	and	 the	planet(s)	 rule
and	occupy.

Pluto	Sextiles
Pluto	 sextiles	 indicate	opportunities	 for	 self-transformation	and	mental	growth
through	the	dynamic	exercise	of	personal	willpower.	These	individuals	 tend	to
leave	 their	 mark	 upon	 the	 world	 through	 writing,	 communication,	 and	 their
association	with	group	endeavors.	This	will	be	most	apparent	in	the	affairs	ruled



by	the	planet	or	planets	that	form	the	sextile	and	in	the	signs	and	houses	Pluto
and	the	planet(s)	rule	and	occupy.

Pluto	Squares
Pluto	squares	are	indicative	of	individuals	who	create	difficulties	for	themselves
that	 are	 the	 direct	 result	 of	 their	 own	 ruthless	 desires.	Often	 they	 attempt	 the
impossible,	and	their	overbearing	impatience	and	dictatorial	attitude	ultimately
defeat	their	purpose.	These	tendencies	will	be	most	apparent	in	the	affairs	ruled
by	the	planet	or	planets	that	form	the	square	and	in	the	signs	and	houses	Pluto
and	the	planet(s)	rule	and	occupy.

Pluto	Trines
Pluto	 trines	mean	 that	good	fortune	and	spiritual	development	will	 result	 from
the	 creative	 use	 of	 willpower	 and	 mental	 concentration	 to	 bring	 about
transformation	 of	 oneself	 and	 one's	 environment.	Many	 clairvoyants,	 healers,
and	spiritual	teachers	have	this	aspect	in	their	horoscope.	These	effects	will	be
felt	most	strongly	in	those	areas	ruled	by	the	planet	or	planets	forming	the	trine
and	the	signs	and	houses	Pluto	and	the	planet(s)	occupy	and	rule.

Pluto	Oppositions
Pluto	 oppositions	 point	 to	 problems	 with	 relationships	 stemming	 from
demanding,	 dictatorial,	 and	 domineering	 attitudes.	 These	 individuals	 wish	 to
reform	and	control	others	without	 any	consideration	or	 respect	 for	 their	 rights
and	 desires.	 As	 a	 result,	 they	 often	 find	 themselves	 resented	 and	 ostracized.
These	 effects	 will	 be	 most	 strongly	 felt	 in	 relationships	 involving	 the	 affairs
ruled	by	the	planet	or	planets	opposing	Pluto	and	in	the	signs	and	houses	Pluto
and	the	planet(s)	rule	and	occupy.



About	the	Author
DAMIAN	 SHARP	 was	 born	 in	 Australia	 and	 is	 the	 recipient	 of	 two	 Literary
Fellowship	Awards	from	the	Australian	Council	for	the	Arts.	He	is	the	author	of
Simple	Feng	Shui	and	Simple	Chinese	Astrology	and	has	published	short	stories
in	periodicals	such	as	the	Chicago	Review.	He	lives	in	San	Francisco.



To	Our	Readers
WEISER	 BOOKS,	 an	 imprint	 of	 Red	Wheel/Weiser,	 publishes	 books	 across	 the
entire	spectrum	of	occult	and	esoteric	subjects.	Our	mission	is	to	publish	quality
books	that	will	make	a	difference	in	people's	lives	without	advocating	any	one
particular	path	or	field	of	study.	We	value	the	integrity,	originality,	and	depth	of
knowledge	of	our	authors.
Our	readers	are	our	most	 important	resource,	and	we	appreciate	your	input,

suggestions,	and	ideas	about	what	you	would	like	to	see	published.	Please	feel
free	 to	 contact	 us	 to	 request	 our	 latest	 book	 catalog	 or	 to	 be	 added	 to	 our
mailing	list.

	

Red	Wheel/Weiser,	LLC
P.O.	Box	612
York	Beach,	ME	03910-0612
www.redwheelweiser.com