Medical astrology 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

Jump to: navigation, search

 
 

This old parchment shows the anciently-held link between the 12 signs of the Zodiac 
and the various parts of the body 

Medical astrology is an ancient medical system that associates various parts of the 
body, diseases and drugs as under the influence of the Sun, Moon and planets, along 
with the twelve astrological signs. Each of the astrological signs (along with the Sun, 
Moon, and planets) are associated with different parts of the human body. Also, many 
plants are referred to in old treatises on herbs as being "under the influence of" some 
planet. This was used as a codification of associations of the signs with the parts of the 
body are as follows: 

• Aries - head, face, brain, eyes 
• Taurus - throat, neck, thyroid gland, vocal tract 
• Gemini - arms, lungs, shoulders, hands, nervous system 
• Cancer - chest, breasts, stomach, alimentary canal 
• Leo - heart, chest, spine, spinal column, upper back 
• Virgo - digestive system, intestines, spleen, nervous system 
• Libra - kidneys, skin, lumbar region, buttocks 
• Scorpio - reproductive system, sexual organs, bowels, excretory system 
• Sagittarius - hips, thighs, liver, sciatic nerve 
• Capricorn - knees, joints, skeletal system 
• Aquarius - ankles, calves, circulatory system 
• Pisces - feet, toes, lymphatic system, adipose tissue 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



It has been noted that the 12 signs cover from head (Aries) to toe (Pisces), because 
Aries is the first sign of the zodiac while Pisces is the last. When the Sun passes from 
Pisces to Aries on or around March 21st, the Vernal equinox occurs, and thus the 
beginning of a new tropical year. Many astrologers celebrate their New Year when the 
Sun transits over this point, which is also known as the First Point of Aries. 

 
 

This table, from an 18th century Icelandic manuscript, links astrological dates with 
preparation of medicine. 

According to Marcus Manilius (1st century AD) in his epic poem (8000 verses) 
Astronomica, the signs of the Zodiac preside over the parts of the body as follows: 

• Aries -- the head 
• Taurus -- the neck and throat 
• Gemini -- the lungs, arms, and shoulders 
• Cancer -- the chest, breasts and stomach 
• Leo -- the heart and upper back 
• Virgo -- the abdomen and digestive system 
• Libra -- the kidneys and lumbar region 
• Scorpio -- the genitals 
• Sagittarius -- the hips and thighs 
• Capricorn -- the knees and bones 
• Aquarius -- the calves, shins and ankles 
• Pisces -- the feet 

For Manilius' associations between body parts and the planets, see Solar system in 
astrology. 

The planets are also associated with certain portions and functions within the body: 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



 
 

Another version of the anatomical-astrological human 

• Sun - heart, spine, and general vitality 
• Moon - stomach, digestive system, female organs, lymphatic system 
• Mercury - brain, central nervous system, thyroid gland, five senses, hands 
• Venus - throat, kidneys, thymus gland, sense of touch, ovaries 
• Mars - muscles, head, adrenal glands, senses of smell and taste 
• Jupiter - liver, thighs, feet, growth, pituitary gland 
• Saturn - skin, hair, teeth, bones, the body's defenses, spleen 
• Uranus - parathyroid gland, neural activity, aura 
• Neptune - pineal gland, psychic healing 
• Pluto - pancreas, metabolism, elimination 

After examining an individual's natal chart, a medical astrologer would give advice to 
the client about the areas of the body they are most likely to experience trouble with -- 
for instance, an individual with the Sun, Moon, Ascendant, or many planets in the sign 
of Aries is presumed to have more headaches than other people because of the 
association of Aries with the head. A person with Taurus strong in the natal chart is 
predicted to have many sore throats and problems with the voice because of the Taurean 
association with that particular part of the body. 

 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

 

 

Astro-Diagnosis 
A Guide To Healing 

by 

Max Heindel
and

Augusta Foss Heindel
A Treatise On Medical Astrology and Diagnosis 

From the Horoscope and Hand 

The Rosicrucian Fellowship 
International Headquarters 

Mount Ecclesia 
P.O. Box 713 

Oceanside, California, 92049-0713, USA 

  

Table of Contents 

  

FOREWORD

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (1 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

TABLE OF CONTENTS

   

●     Foreword 
●     Introduction 

  

PART I

   

●     The Anatomical and Physiological Properties of the Signs 

●     Chapter II: Rulership and Qualities 
❍     Anatomy and Physiology Correlated to the Zodiac 
❍     Pathological Qualities of the Signs 
❍     Physiological Afflictions of the Signs 
❍     Anatomy and Physiology Correlated to the Planets 
❍     Pathological Qualities of the Planets 
❍     Astrological Affinities of the Sense Organs 

●     Chapter III 
❍     Sympathy and Antipathy 

●     Chapter IV 
❍     The Science of Right Living 

●     Chapter V 
❍     The Mentality 

●     Chapter VI 
❍     The Sixth House Influences 

●     Chapter VII 
❍     Preliminary Steps in Diagnosing 

●     Chapter VIII 
❍     Hints and Helps for the Healer 

●     Chapter IX 
❍     Aphorisms 

●     Chapter X 
❍     Diagnosing from the Hands and Finger Nails 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (4 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

  

 

   PART II 

Diagnosis From Horoscopes

   

❍     Chapter XI 
■     A Lesson in Directing 

❍     Chapter XII: The Ears 
■     1A: Ears and Nerves 
■     1B: The Ears 
■     1C: The Ears -- Abscesses in Frontal Bone 

❍     Chapter XIII: The Ears 
■     2A: The Eyes 
■     2B: The Eyes 
■     2C: The Eyes 
■     2D: Eye Trouble 
■     2E; 2F: The Eyes 
■     2G: The Eyes 
■     2H: The Eyes 

❍     Chapter XIV: The Throat 
■     3A; 3B: Tonsils, Adenoids 
■     3C: Throat and Tonsils 
■     3D: Goiter; Tonsils 
■     3E: Goiter 
■     3F: The Vocal Organs 
■     3G: Loss of Speech 

❍     Chapter XV: The Lungs 
■     4A: Tuberculosis 
■     4B: Tuberculosis 
■     4C: Tuberculosis 

❍     Chapter XVI: The Heart 
■     5A: The Heart 
■     5B: Heart; Kidneys 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (5 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

■     5C: The Heart 
■     5D: The Heart 
■     5E: The Heart 

❍     Chapter XVII: The Stomach 
■     6A: Stomach Trouble and Tuberculosis 
■     6B: Stomach Trouble and Inflammation of Kidneys 
■     6C: The Pylorus 
■     6D: Stomach and Kidney Trouble 

❍     Chapter XVIII: The Kidneys 
■     7A: The Kidneys 
■     7B: The Kidneys and Mastoiditis 
■     7C: General Breakdown 
■     7D: Renal Calculi 
■     7E: Renal Circulation 
■     7F: Bladder Trouble 
■     7G: Diabetes 
■     7H: Diabetes 

❍     Chapter XIX: Sex 
■     8A, 8B: Sex and Throat 
■     8C: Sex 
■     8D, 8E: Gonorrhea 
■     8F: Venereal Disease 
■     8G: Venereal Disease 
■     8H: Uterine Trouble 
■     8I: Childbirth 
■     8J: Abortion 

❍     Chapter XX: The Spine 
■     9A: Spinal Trouble 
■     9B: Spinal Trouble 
■     9C: Tuberculosis of the Spine 
■     9D, 9E: Inability to Walk 

❍     Chapter XXI: The Liver and Gall Bladder 
■     10A: The Liver 
■     10B: Gallstones 
■     10C, 10D: Gallstones 

❍     Chapter XXII: The Circulation 
■     11A: Palpitation of the Heart 
■     11B: Sluggish Circulation and Cataracts 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (6 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

■     11D: Varicose Veins 
■     11E: Restricted Circulation 
■     11F: Pernicious Anemia 
■     11G: Rheumatism and Impure Blood 
■     11H, 11I: Rheumatism 

❍     Chapter XXIII: Leprosy 
■     12A, 12B: Leprosy 

❍     Chapter XXIV: Paralysis 
■     13A: Paralysis 
■     13B: Paralysis and Hardening of the Arteries 
■     13C: Facial Paralysis 
■     13D, 13E: Paralysis 
■     13F: Infantile Paralysis 
■     13G: Rickets and Tetany 

❍     Chapter XXV: The Nerves 
■     14A, 14B: Nervous Breakdown and Paralysis 
■     14C, 14D: Defective Walk 
■     14E: Exaggerated Hysteria 
■     14F: Obstruction of the Pneumogastric Nerve 

❍     Chapter XXVI: The Bones 
■     15A: Injury to Femur 
■     15B: Arthritic Muscular Atrophy 
■     15C: Osteomyelitis--Inflammation of Marrow of Bone 

❍     Chapter XXVII: Spirit Control 
■     16A: Spirit Control 

❍     Chapter XXVIII: The Ductless Glands 
■     17A, 17B: Thyroid Gland Trouble 
■     17C: The Thymus Gland 
■     17D: The Adrenals 

❍     Chapter XXIX: Special Conditions 
■     18A: Deficiency in Lymph 
■     18B: Polypi and Kidney Trouble 
■     18C: Pyorrhea 
■     18D: Auto Intoxication 
■     18E: Peritonitis 
■     18F: Arterio-Sclerosis 
■     18G: Typhoid and Spinal Trouble 
■     18H: Narcotics; Cigarettes 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (7 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

❍     Chapter XXX: Insanity 
■     19A: A Mental Case 
■     19B: Insanity 
■     19C: Insanity, Obsession, and Tuberculosis 

❍     Chapter XXXI: Asthma 
■     20A: Asthma 
■     20B: Asthma,; Morphine Addiction 
■     20C, 20D, 20E: Asthma 

❍     Chapter XXXII: Cancer 
■     21A: Cancer 
■     21B: Cancer 

❍     Chapter XXXIII: Rosicrucian Healing 
■     How the Rosicrucians Heal the Sick 

❍     Alphabetical Index 

  

CHAPTER I

THE ANATOMICAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
OF THE SIGNS 

 
ARIES

When Aries, which has rule over the head, is on the Ascendant, we have a person 
whose actions are impulsive and aggressive. He acts and speaks quickly. An excess of 
life force is generated by these people. This is intensified when the dynamic Mars, which 
is the ruler of Aries, is also in Aries on the Ascendant, or when the life-giving sun is 
there. When these planets add their vital energies to the Ascendant, we have a person 
who is very apt to dissipate his forces. people who express Aries very strongly are apt to 
be quick of temper of an explosive kind, but will not hold spite. Those with Aries on the 
Ascendant, or with the sun or Mars there, are quick to anger but also ready to forgive. 

   Aries rules the head, the cerebral hemispheres of the brain, the upper jaw, the eyes, 
and the face. The nose, however, is ruled by the martial sign of Scorpio. 

   Aries is hot, dry, and inflammatory. Aries people with a slight cold or disturbance of 
health may have a very high temperature. In illness their fever will often be from three to 
four degrees higher than that of the persons born under the watery of airy signs. Under 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (8 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

planetary afflictions these people are subject to brain fever, dizziness, nosebleed, 
neuralgia, inflammation of the cerebral hemispheres, and diseases of the brain and face. 
They frequently suffer from a rush of blood to the head. 

   The will of the patient plays a great part in the success of healing. People under 
positive signs are most likely to respond, for they make personal effort to help the 
healer, while negative-sign people are prone to follow the line of least resistance and to 
be neglectful in following the instructions of the healer. 

  

TAURUS

   Taurus has rule over the region of the neck, the ears, palate, larynx, tonsils, thyroid 
gland, lower jaw, occipital region, cerebellum, atlas, and cervical vertebrae, vocal 
chords, carotid arteries, jugular vein, and the pharynx. 

   The Taurean is very stubborn and tenacious. Taurus being a negative sign, when a 
Taurean contracts a disease, he holds on to it tenaciously. He has great fear of 
sickness, and on account of this fear he makes a poor doctor or nurse, whereas the 
Arian, being under Aires which is a positive sign, will go into a sick room without fear 
and quickly throw off the disease. If you have a patient who has Taurus rising or the sun 
in Taurus, never let him think he is much ill, for his fear of sickness will often bring on a 
spell of it. The Taurean has a tendency to take on flesh in middle life. Being short and 
thickest as a rule, he becomes very fleshy about the neck and base of the skull. This 
has a tendency to cause the swelling of glands, tonsillitis, quinsy, and various diseases 
of the organs of the neck; also polypi. 

  

GEMINI

   Gemini has rule over the arms, hands, shoulders, lungs, thymus gland, upper ribs, 
trachea, bronchi, capillaries, breath, and oxygenation of the blood. 

   The Gemini person is subject to nervous troubles. Gemini being one of the common 
signs, a person born with this sign rising is often very careless of his health and habits, 
and on this account we find more tubercular patients among Gemini people than among 
people of any one of the other eleven signs. Gemini being classed among the positive 
signs, the Gemini person can, if he is given the least bit of help, often throw off a 
disease. The diseases to which Gemini is most subject are pulmonary troubles, 
bronchitis, asthma, pneumonia, consumption, pleurisy, and nervous disorders. 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (9 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

  

CANCER

   When we have a horoscope to diagnose for one who has the watery and negative 
Cancer rising, we may look for one who is low in vitality; one who is very timid yet loath 
to follow the advice of others. Cancer people are apt to do the opposite from that which 
they are advised to do. They are also full of suspicion, and on account of lack of faith in 
others they are difficult to reach; but when their faith has once been established, they 
are most loyal and ready to cooperate. A little praise or appreciation will often win them 
over. They are unduly sensitive, and when hurt do not forget it readily. When the sun is 
in this watery sign, the native has more vitality than when it is rising, for the sun is the 
giver of life and energy. 

   Cancer has rule over the stomach, diaphragm, the mammae, upper lobes of the liver, 
thoracic duct, chymification, peristalsis, the pancreas, gastric vein, and the serum of the 
blood. 

   The afflictions which may be classed under the sign of Cancer are indigestion, 
hiccough, flatulency, dropsy, and sclerosis. Cancer people are very fond of food and are 
usually hearty eaters. Consequently they are often afflicted with diseases which 
originate in wrong diet; especially do we find this so with the people have Saturn in 
Cancer. This planet has a restricting influence, and wherever he is found he robs the 
corresponding organ of its fluids. When in Cancer he gives a desire for pastry and 
sweets. 

  

LEO

   When we have to deal with a patient with Leo on the Ascendant, we have one with 
great vital energy, one who will not readily succumb to disease. The Leo usually puts up 
a brave fight to overcome without calling upon others for help, but when he gives up, he 
is usually very sick; he recovers rapidly from illness, however. His pride will not permit 
him as a rule to become a charge upon others. Being a positive sign the greatest 
handicap to the Leo is impulse. He feels he must do everything with a very great amount 
of energy, which is detrimental to the health of the parts of the body ruled by this vital 
sign: the heart, aorta, vena cava, dorsal region of the spine, and the spinal cord. 

   The sun, which is the life giver, rules this sign of Leo and also has rule over the vital 
etheric fluid coming through the spleen, which is the gateway of the solar forces. 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (10 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

Through the spleen the sign of Leo draws its strength largely. We find those born with 
this sign rising very vital and full of force, especially if the sun is also in Leo; but by the 
destructive use of their surplus energy they are often afflicted with heart trouble of 
various kinds, also spinal troubles. They suffer frequently with disturbance of the spleen, 
which has an effect upon the activities of the blood, causing an excess of white blood 
corpuscles, which are destroyers and not policemen of the blood stream as medical 
science claims. 

  

VIRGO

   Virgo is a feminine and negative sign, the second of the earthy triplicity, and has less 
power of resistance that the fixed sign of Leo. Virgo may stand considerable strain, 
however, being of a nervous and wiry temperament; still when the Virgoan gives up, he 
finds it very hard to rise and shake off an illness. Being of a negative disposition he is 
apt to let circumstances rule him, and does not assert his will power to overcome. Virgo 
is the natural sixth house sign, the house which has rule over sickness; hence when 
Virgo people once get into the clutches of sickness, they are apt to become chronic 
invalids. Therefore though such people make excellent nurses, they should be advised 
against this vocation and avoid sick rooms and hospitals, for they are like sponges and 
every ready to take on the disease of their patients. 

   Virgo rules the abdominal region, intestines, the lower lobes of the liver, the spleen, 
the duodenum, and the sympathetic nervous system. 

   The afflictions which may be classed under the sign of Virgo are determined largely by 
the planets which may be afflicted in this sign. Cramps in the intestines, wind, colic, 
malnutrition, diarrhea, constipation, peritonitis, cholera, dysentery, worms, catarrh of the 
bowels, and appendicitis may result from afflictions in Virgo. 

  

LIBRA

   Libra is one of the signs wherein the sun is weak. The sun is symbolized by Sampson, 
who is minus his strength, for Delilah, who is the feminine Virgo, has shorn him of his 
power, which was in his hair, representing the sun's rays. As the sun enters Libra, it 
changes from north to south declination; and as Libra is the sign of Saturn's exaltation, 
the sun's rays at this point, the crossing of the equator, are weakest. Libra people on 
this account are not always able to rise above physical conditions. Their moods waver 
like the symbol which represents the sign, the scales. At one time Librans are up in the 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (11 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

seventh heaven of happiness and optimism, but at the least mental disturbance they 
may drop to the very bottom of pessimism and despair. Idealism is well developed in the 
Libran. The Libran patient should, if possible, never be discouraged in whatever he has 
set his heart upon doing, for shatter his ideals and down goes one side of the scales into 
the very deepest discouragement, which often causes ill health. The Libran should 
cultivate equilibrium. 

   Physiologically this sign rules the kidneys, the lumbar region of the spine, the skin, the 
ureters, which are the tiny ducts running between the kidneys and the bladder, and the 
vaso-motor system. The afflictions from with the Libran is most likely to suffer are 
Bright's disease, lumbago, disturbed urine. The disease depends greatly upon the 
planets afflicting: if Saturn, there is a scarcity of urine; if Jupiter, an excess, etc. 
Nephritis, eczema, and diabetes are also diseases from which the Libran is likely to 
suffer. 

  

SCORPIO

   The martial, watery sign of Scorpio is one of the least understood signs of the entire 
twelve. Scorpio produces a number of types. Usually the Scorpio person is of a 
secretive, timid, retiring nature, one who does not talk of his affairs. But there is another 
type of Scorpio who is ready to argue at "the drop of the hat," holding our for his point, 
and he can become very cruel. He usually has an explosive temper, which may, if the 
horoscope has afflictions, undermine the health. The greatest danger to the health of the 
Scorpio, however, comes from the generative organs and the ducts through which the 
excretions of the body pass, such as the urethra (the small canal through which the 
urine passes from the bladder outward) and the colon, including the anus. 

   The bladder, the sigmoid flexure, prostate gland, pubic bone, the red coloring matter of 
the blood, and the nasal bones are also under the rule of Scorpio. 

   People born under this sign make good healers, surgeons, doctors, and nurses. But 
there is often a cruel and tyrannical streak in the Scorpio, and the desire nature is 
strong, sometimes sensual. Low desires often bring excesses, which may cause the 
following diseases, expressing themselves according to the planets and the afflicting 
aspects: syphilis, hernia, scurvy, fistula, piles, inflammation and falling of the womb, 
uterine troubles, stricture of the prostrate gland, and nasal catarrh. 

  

SAGITTARIUS

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (12 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

   The Sagittarian is usually the most gentle and easily cured of all patients, for with his 
frank and kindly nature he is most trusting and ever ready to follow all the instructions of 
the healer; but he will also respond to every negative suggestion. The healer may have 
given constructive advice and left the patient feeling encouraged, but should one of his 
many friends (for the Sagittarian is usually very popular and good mixer and therefore 
attracts many friends to him) suggest sickness or tell him that he is looking bad or give 
him some other remedy to follow he is very apt to accept the suggestion. The result is 
that he often retards his recovery. Therefore it is necessary for the Sagittarian patient to 
be placed under the care of someone who will protect him from adverse suggestions. 

   Sagittarius rules the region of the body directly surrounding the hips, the sacral region 
of the spine, the coccygeal vertebrae, the femur, the ileum, the iliac arteries, the sciatic 
nerves, and the ischium. 

   The Sagittarian diseases are locomotor ataxia, sciatica, rheumatism, and hip disease. 

  

CAPRICORN

   The sign of Capricorn is an earthy sign and ruled by the planet Saturn. Capricorn 
people do not yield to disease very readily. They are of a wiry, persistent, and stolid 
nature, and will suffer considerable pain before they will succumb to illness. But once 
they have given in to sickness then they are just as slow and stubborn in holding on to it. 
They sometimes become hypochondriacs, and the healer must use most diplomatic 
methods to break up the crystallized condition with which these Saturnian people clothe 
themselves. The most unfortunate part of it is that if a Capricorn who is in this mental 
and physical state is aware that anyone is endeavoring to help him, he will resist help 
and close up against the friend who thus approaches him. Capricorn people are super-
sensitive and very retiring. They often form habits of entertaining gloom and 
despondency, which have a deteriorating effect upon the health. 

   The sign of Capricorn has rule over the knees, the skin, the joints, and the hair. The 
skin of a Capricorn person is often sallow and dry. 

   The diseases to which Capricorn is subject are eczema, syphilis, leprosy; also 
dislocation of the bones. 

  

AQUARIUS

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (13 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

   The fixed and airy sign of Aquarius is under the rule of two planets, the melancholy, 
fearful, and overanxious Saturn, which is ordinarily termed the planet of obstruction, and 
the impulsive, heedless, emotional, and hysterical Uranus. While Aquarius is a fixed sign 
which endows the native with a strong will, still when the Aquarian is afflicted by adverse 
aspects between certain planets, especially Saturn or Uranus when they are strongly 
placed in the horoscope, he is prone to develop extreme gloom, pessimism, and 
sensitiveness, or he is rash and responds to the emotional Uranus. These varying 
moods frequently result in ill health, which too often takes the form of nervousness. 
Aquarius being a mental and airy sign, its natives are wiry and ambitious, and are prone 
to overdo. They can never measure their strength until the body is strained to its very 
limit, therefore when they do give up they are usually in a critical state; but they will give 
the healer every opportunity to help them, for they are ever ready to cooperate. 

   Physiologically the sign of Aquarius rules the lower limbs and ankles. 

   The diseases with which the Aquarian may be afflicted are varicose veins, swelling of 
the legs, and nervous diseases of various kinds. One indication that the Aquarian has 
when the nerves begin to get weak is extreme sensitiveness of the skin. There is a 
crawling sensation felt all over the body, as if little insects were crawling on the skin. 

  

PISCES

   Pisces is a watery and common sign, and the people born under it are of a lymphatic 
and negative nature very fond of luxuries, which too often lead them to seek a life of 
ease; in later life they are prone to take on an excess of soft, flabby flesh, which leads to 
ill health. The Pisces people respond very readily to suggestions, whether they are good 
or evil, and they will also respond just as quickly to the influence of the healer. Do not 
allow anyone who is of a too sympathetic nature to visit the Piscean while he is ill. Of the 
over-sympathetic type there are too many in the world today, who think it a social duty to 
call upon every sick friends and encourage the ailing one to talk about his disease, and 
then extend to him, oh, so much sympathy! The Piscean person will enjoy the visit of the 
sympathizer, but when the latter has gone, he usually has a relapse and must quickly 
send for the doctor or healer. He should be placed in a very cheerful room, with a 
cheerful attendant, and a sign on the door, "No sympathetic visitors allowed." 

   The Piscean is prone to drift into the habit of drink and the use of narcotics, especially 
if we find an affliction of the moon and Neptune in the horoscope. 

   Pisces rules the feet, the toes, and the fibrin of the blood. On account of their fondness 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (14 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

for good food and an easy life. Piscean people are subject to gout and the swelling of 
the feet. 

   

CHAPTER II

RULERSHIPS AND QUALITIES 
ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY CORRELATED TO THE ZODIAC

  ARIES-Brain, cerebral hemispheres, cranium, eyes, face, upper jaw, internal carotid 
arteries. 

  TAURUS-Neck, throat, palate, larynx, tonsils, lower jaw, ears, occipital region, 
cerebellum, atlas, axis, external carotid arteries, jugular veins, pharynx, thyroid gland, 
cervical vertebrae. 

  GEMINI-Shoulders, arms, hands, upper ribs, lungs, trachea, bronchi, capillaries, 
breath, oxygenation of blood. 

  CANCER-stomach, esophagus, diaphragm, the mammae, lacteals, upper lobes of 
liver, thoracic duct, pancreas, serum of blood, peristalsis of the stomach, chymification. 

  LEO-Heart, dorsal region of spine, spinal cord, aorta, superior and inferior vena cava. 

  VIRGO-Abdominal region, large and small intestines, lower lobe of liver, spleen, 
duodenum, chylification, peristalsis of the bowels. 

  LIBRA-Kidneys, adrenals, lumbar region, skin, ureters, vasomotor system. 

  SCORPIO-Bladder, urethra, genitals, descending colon, prostate gland, sigmoid 
flexure, nasal bone, pubic bone, red coloring matter in blood. 

  SAGITTARIUS-Hips, thighs, femur, ileum, coccygeal vertebrae, sacral region, sciatic 
nerves, ischium. 

  CAPRICORN-Skin, knees, joints, hair. 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (15 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

  AQUARIUS-Lower limbs, ankles. 

  PISCES-Feet, toes, fibrin of blood. 

  

PATHOLOGICAL QUALITIES OF THE SIGNS

  ARIES-Energy, forcefulness, excesses; heat, dryness, inflammation. 

  TAURUS-Stubbornness, brooding, uncontrolled anger, luxuriousness. 

  GEMINI-Negativeness, restlessness, nervousness. 

  CANCER-Lack of vitality, tenacity, unforgiveness, distrustfulness. 

  LEO-Impulse, arrogance, fixity, vitality, ardor. 

  VIRGO-Selfishness, criticism, lack of sympathy, chastity. 

  LIBRA-Self-centeredness, sensitiveness, melancholy, jealousy. 

  SCORPIO-Tyranny, destructiveness, worrisomeness, reproduction. 

  SAGITTARIUS-Restlessness, venturesomeness, accidents. 

  CAPRICORN-Limitation, deliberation, crystallization, dryness. 

  AQUARIUS-Gloom, endurance, nervousness; super-sensitiveness 

  PISCES-Sensitiveness, lack of vitality, indolence, secretiveness. 

  

PHYSIOLOGICAL AFFLICTIONS OF THE SIGNS

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (16 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

  ARIES-Neuralgia, insomnia, cerebral congestion, brain fever, baldness, headache, 
dizziness, eye affections, toothache, gumboils. 

  TAURUS-Goiter, diphtheria, laryngitis, tonsillitis, croup, polypi, quinsy, glandular 
swelling of throat, apoplexy. 

  GEMINI-Bronchitis, asthma, pneumonia, consumption, pleurisy, corrupted blood, 
nervous trouble, anemia. 

  CANCER-Indigestion, dipsomania, gastric catarrh, hiccough, flatulency, dropsy, 
sclerosis. 

  LEO-Heart disease, angina pectoris, locomotor ataxia, hyperemia, spinal disease, 
spinal meningitis, fevers. 

  VIRGO-Peritonitis, malnutrition, dysentery, colic, constipation, diarrhea, cholera, 
typhoid, appendicitis, tapeworm 

  LIBRA-Bright's disease, lumbago, suppression of urine, nephritis, diabetes, renal 
calculi, uremia. 

  SCORPIO-Syphilis, rupture, gravel, scurvy, fistula, piles, diseases of the womb or 
uterus, urethral stricture, prostatic stricture, nasal catarrh, disease of nasal mucous 
membrane and nasal cartilage. 

  SAGITTARIUS-Locomotor ataxia, sciatica, lumbago, rheumatism, hip disease, 
accidents to thighs. 

  CAPRICORN-Eczema, erysipelas, leprosy, dislocation of bones, weak knees. 

  AQUARIUS-Varicose veins, swollen ankles, leg ache, nervous diseases, sensitive 
skin. 

  PISCES-Bunions, gout, deformed feet and toes, tumors, dropsy. 

  

ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY CORRELATED TO THE PLANETS

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (17 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

  SUN-Vital fluid, spleen, distribution of heat, pons varolii, oxygen, heart. 

  VENUS-Throat, kidneys, thymus gland, venous circulation. 

  MERCURY-Nerves, bronchial tubes, pulmonary circulation, thyroid gland, right cerebral 
hemisphere, cerebro-spinal system, sensory nerves, vital fluid in nerves, vocal cords, 
ears, sight, tongue, all sense perception, breath. 

  MOON-Esophagus, uterus, ovaries, lymphatics, sympathetic nervous system synovial 
fluid, alimentary canal, lymph, chyle, nerve sheaths. 

  SATURN-Gall bladder, pneumogastric or vagus nerve, teeth, skin, joints, ligaments, 
sigmoid flexure. 

  JUPITER-Liver, glycogen, suprarenals, arterial circulation, fibrin of blood, disposition of 
fats. 

  MARS-Iron in blood, red coloring matter in blood, genitals, motor nerves, left cerebral 
hemisphere, muscular movements, desire body, rectum. 

  URANUS-Ethers, eyes, pituitary body, gases. 

  NEPTUNE-Pineal gland, spinal canal, nerve fiber. 

PATHOLOGICAL QUALITIES OF THE PLANETS

  SUN-Hot, dry, vital, constructive, expansive, tonic. 

  VENUS-Warn, lymphatic, relaxing, sedentary. 

  MERCURY-Cold, dry, nervous. 

  MOON-Moist, cold, nutritive, receptive, collective, fluidic. 

  SATURN-Cold, dry, chronic, contracting, crystallizing, binding, restricting, centripetal, 
obstructive. 

  JUPITER-Warn, moist, nourishing, expansive, corpulent, gourmandizing. 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (18 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

  MARS-Hot, dry, inflammatory, energetic, eruptive, excessive, violent, positive. 

  URANUS-Dry, spasmodic, electric, explosive, convulsive, disorganizing. 

  NEPTUNE-Comatose, shrinking, stunting, restricting, constricting. 

ASTROLOGICAL AFFINITIES OF THE SENSE ORGANS

  EYES-Aries, Uranus, sun, moon, Ascelli, Antares, Pleiades. 

  EARS-Taurus, Mercury. 

  NOSE-Scorpio. 

  TONGUE-Taurus, Mercury. 

  

CHAPTER III

SYMPATHY AND ANTIPATHY

Pythagoras taught that the solar system is one mighty musical instrument, that the 
twelve signs of the zodiac may be compared to the semitones of the chromatic scale, 
and that the planets constitute the seven white keys of the cosmic key board. Each sign 
responds to a certain tone; some tones blend and are harmonious, while others clash. 
As we find disharmony and conflict between certain notes of a piano and between 
certain strings of a harp, so do we find similar inharmony between various signs of the 
zodiac and various planets in their effect on man. 

   

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (19 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

   The symbol of the trine is the triangle. In astrology the trine is considered harmonious 
and benefic. Then we have the signs which represent the four elements, forming the 
fiery, earthy, airy, and watery triangles. 

   The fiery and airy signs are in harmony with each other, and the earthy and watery 
triplicities are friendly; but the fiery and watery will not harmonize, neither will the earthy 
and the fiery signs. Planets in these various groups of signs will express the same 
sympathy or antipathy as the signs themselves. The sign triplicities express themselves 
through harmony in the temperaments and personalities of people, while the squares 
express their afflictions through physical discomforts. 

   Disease is really a lack of harmony between the spirit and the personality, a conflict 
between the lower and the higher man. The trines or triplicities act as peacemakers, 
while the squares and oppositions place limitations upon the spirit. The latter pair bring 
the lessons which are to be learned. They exact payment of the debts of destiny from a 
person for the mistakes made and the selfishness expressed in past lives. The squares 
and oppositions are most vital in their action. The squares operate through three groups 
of signs which constitute-- 

  

THE VICIOUS CIRCLE

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (20 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

   Doctors have for years been studying the strange sympathy between different parts of 
the body which they have found manifested in the diseases of various patients. When 
they find a disease in one organ, they are in the habit of looking for the cause in another 
organ which is in sympathy with the first. For instance, in glaucoma or certain kinds of 
eye trouble they have invariably found that the real cause or seat of the trouble was in 
the stomach or the kidneys. In certain types of throat trouble and in goiter a weakened 
heart has frequently been found to be the cause. 

   The four points of the circle of the cardinal or equinoctial signs, namely, Aries the 
eyes, Libra the kidneys, Cancer the stomach, and Capricorn the knees, are closely in 
sympathy with one another, and trouble in one will frequently manifest in one of the 
other signs of this circle. For instance, if we find Saturn in the sign of its fall, Cancer, and 
afflicted, digestive troubles ensue and invariably the kidneys will be disturbed; 
sometimes stiff knee joints are the result. Eye troubles are frequently developed as a 
result of wrong eating. People with Saturn in Cancer are extremists in their selection of 
food. They have strange likes and dislikes. 

   The second vicious circle is that of the fixed signs: Taurus the throat; Scorpio the 
generative organs, rectum, urethra, and nose; Leo the heart and spine; Aquarius the 
legs, below the knees. When the organs of voice or the tonsils are operated upon in 
childhood there will be disturbances at puberty and later troubles in childbirth. Great 
sympathy is found between the sex organs and the organs of speech. The removal of 
parts of the sex organs causes change of voice, the male voice becoming feminine, and 
the female voice masculine. Valvular heart trouble often causes the swelling of the 
ankles. 

   The third group of squares we find composed of the common or mutable signs, 
corresponding to the cadent houses. The 6th house, which is correlated to Virgo, and 
the 12th house, correlated to Pisces, are especially vital in the horoscope, for they are 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (21 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:26 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

respectively the house of sickness and the house of confinement and hospitals. We find 
great sympathy between these two signs and houses. Common signs are the most 
productive of sickness, and more hopeless invalids are found among common-sign 
people than in any other group for the reason that their will power is not overly strong. 

   Two common signs are ruled by Mercury, which has dominion over the breath, nerves, 
and sense perception; and one by Jupiter, which has rule over the fibrin of the blood, the 
arterial circulation, and the liver. Gemini rules the lungs, and through these organs the 
blood is oxidized. Virgo has rule over the intestines, sympathetic nervous system, and 
spleen. How often we hear the remark, "I caught cold (or pneumonia) due to wet feet," 
involving Gemini and Pisces. Many more examples could be cited of the action of the 
vicious circles. 

  

CHAPTER IV

THE SCIENCE OF RIGHT LIVING

In the previous chapters we studied the properties of the signs of the zodiac, and had 
the anatomical groupings so arranged as to make it easy for the student of astro-
diagnosis to study them. It is very necessary that he become familiar with the basic 
properties of the signs as well as of the planets. It is impossible to make any headway in 
the art of diagnosing a chart unless the student has considerable knowledge of the 
zodiac and the properties of the signs and planets. He should also familiarize himself 
with the science of progression. All these different phases he will have to make use of 
before he can become proficient in diagnosis so that he may tell what certain positions, 
aspects, and planets indicate. It is essential that he understand the temperament and 
character of the patient before he can really be sure of his diagnosis of disease. 

   To find the key to a disease and the reason why a man or woman has become an 
invalid, whether the disease is organic, and whether the patient has broken the laws of 
nature, is just as necessary as the diagnosis itself. What is the good of knowing what 
kind of a disease is shown in the horoscope if you cannot show the patient where he is 
breaking the laws of nature? Disease in ninety-five cases out of every hundred is due to 
wrong methods of living, and to be able to point these out to the patient leads to the 
cure. First, you must remove the cause, and then the cure will follow as a natural result. 

   The secret of the success of the progressive doctor lies in the fact that he will never, if 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (22 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

he can possibly avoid it, diagnose the disease to his patient directly. He will only give 
advice and prescribe, and sometimes he may give a hint regarding the cause of 
disease; he will also give directions as to food and methods of living, and tell why the 
patient should discontinue certain habits. From this diplomatic handling of the patient 
comes the doctor's greatest success. He will never express a discouraging word. He 
never robs the patient of his hope, and when he leaves the home of the patient, he 
leaves with a smile and an encouraging word. 

   There are exceptions, however, for there are doctors, and they are not in the minority 
by any means, who are posing under the name of physician but who will predict death or 
the necessity of operations of various kinds before they have really and truly diagnosed 
the disease. Under the care of such a physician the poor patient is frequently doomed, 
for the one from whom he has expected relief has really robbed him of hope. So we 
want to impress it very strongly upon our students that NEVER at any time should they 
predict death; also never at any time tell the patient that he has heart trouble, that he is 
in danger of insanity, or that he is afflicted with the dread disease of tuberculosis; from 
such statements he would get the thought of fear. Fear is usually worse in its effect upon 
the mind of the negative one than the disease itself. Ninety patients out of every 
hundred are ill because of wrong and dangerous methods of eating, ill because of fear, 
or ill because of the lack of will power to resist temptations; in fact, all disease is the 
result of ignorant violation of the laws of nature. This may not have occurred in this life 
alone. It may have been brought over from a life previous, and thus the patient has 
latent weaknesses. 

   So we may realize that to be of real help in the healing of the sick the healer or the 
diagnostician must have sufficient knowledge to be able to give the suffering one 
instruction in right living. Our advice to the reader would be to study carefully and 
memorize if possible the lessons in astro-diagnosis which have just preceded; also to 
familiarize himself with the properties of the various foods and their combinations, for 
you may expect if you tell a patient to change his diet that he will ask you what he 
should eat. One may see from all these considerations how very necessary it is to get a 
sane and safe knowledge of the science of right living. 

  

CHAPTER V

THE MENTALITY

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (23 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

Our first thought when judging the mental qualities of a patient is to find the position of 
Mercury. First note the sign in which it is placed, then the house, and thirdly the aspects 
which this planet of reason is making. 

   To save time and space in these lessons we will not give the effects of Mercury in the 
different signs of the zodiac, but will refer the reader to The Message of the Stars, pages 
201 to 207, also pages 549, 550, where he will find the basic qualities of Mercury in the 
twelve signs. These should be studied very carefully, and this study will give a 
foundation upon which to base the judgment. 

   The next planet to consider is the moon. If there is a good aspect between the moon 
and Mercury, especially if these two planets are well placed in the angles and in signs in 
which they can express their best qualities, we may expect the patient will be able to 
cooperate with the healer. If Mercury, however, is conjunct Saturn, we find a mind which 
is stubborn, slow, and subject to melancholia. When Mercury is trine or sextile to Saturn, 
a well balanced mind with good reasoning qualities will develop, and a retentive memory 
is shown. When Mars or Uranus is in conjunction with Mercury, the patient is of a high-
strung, emotional, erratic type with little control over the mind; but should Mars or 
Uranus be sextile or trine to Mercury, it will have a tendency to quicken the mental 
faculties, giving impulse. If we find Mercury or the moon afflicted by Neptune, the mind is 
inclined toward unhealthy and unnatural conditions, obsession, religious mania, 
mediumship, drink, or drugs. Observe the house and sign in which these planets are 
placed to find how they tend to express themselves. Neptune being the higher octave of 
Mercury, this planet has a strong influence on the higher mind. Neptune when afflicted 
by Uranus or the moon gives tendencies towards undesirable experiences in psychism. 
When Neptune is afflicted by Mars, especially when it is in conjunction with this fiery 
planet, the native is often tempted to use hypnotism or black magic upon others, and is 
himself prone to become the victim of those who unscrupulously use these dreadful 
practices on others. 

   When the mental afflictions are in the eighth or the twelfth house they have a more 
subtle influence than elsewhere. Afflictions in the eighth house may give the mind 
suicidal tendencies, but if in the twelfth house being the house of self-undoing, hospitals, 
prisons and insane asylums, they may cause confinement in some institution. 

   We wish to impress it very firmly upon the mind of the reader, never, never at any time 
to base a diagnosis on only one or two aspects, but always upon the entire horoscope. 
To illustrate the dangers of superficial judgment we will take the horoscope of a man 
who had Mercury in Capricorn in the sixth house, making only one aspect which was a 
weak square to Neptune. Judging the horoscope quickly one would say that he had a 
dull mentality, but as a boy he stood at the head of his class. In spelling and 
mathematics he was very bright. As a man he has reached a high status among his 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (24 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

associates. He is a leader in a line of work which requires executive ability and a keen 
mentality. To illustrate our point we will note what the other planets indicated. He had 
seven planets in airy signs, five planets in mental signs, the moon and Neptune both 
well aspected and in angles, the sun and moon in fixed signs, and fixed and cardinal 
signs on the four angles. When summing up the entire horoscope we can well see why 
this man reached such a high position in mental work with a weak Mercury. So we want 
to impress it firmly upon our readers to use their reasoning powers before giving a 
judgment on a horoscope, whether it is for mental, moral, spiritual, or physical qualities. 

  

CHAPTER VI

THE SIXTH HOUSE INFLUENCES

After we have carefully studied the mental qualities of our patient we must try to find 
the strength of the will. The Ascendant as a rule gives us a key to will and to the 
mentality. Now we will see what bearing the 6th house has on the matter. The 6th house 
is the house of sickness, and very often gives the key to the patient's condition. We 
therefore first look to the ruler of this house to see what it indicates, in what sign and 
house it is placed, and what the nature of the sign is and what part of the body is ruled 
by it. Next we must see what planets are aspecting the ruler of this house of sickness. 

   Let us suppose that Aquarius is on the cusp of the 6th house. Then we would look for 
the two planets, Uranus and Saturn, which have rule over this sign. Naturally they will 
have rule over the health of the patient to a very great extent. Now, suppose that Uranus 
is in the sign of Virgo and on the Ascendant, as we find it in the horoscope of a man who 
was born April 22nd, 1881, at 2 P.M. Uranus rising gives the key to the nature, which is 
one of great impulse. The co-ruler of the 6th house is Saturn. We find in the greater 
number of horoscopes that Saturn is the afflicter. He is the taskmaster that brings to 
man the needed lessons. Saturn in the horoscope which we have under consideration is 
in Taurus, intercepted in the 9th house and in conjunction with the sun and Jupiter. 
Saturn is not in this case the worst afflicter. 

   We now consider the planets which may be in the 6th house. Here we find the 
vacillating moon in Aquarius and square to Venus and Neptune. The latter two planets 
are in the sign of Taurus in the 9th house. Here we have the whole trouble. The moon 
and Venus are both feminine, indicating women; the moon is the ruler of the 11th house, 
and thus represents women friends, who tempted and caused this man to respond to 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (25 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

the Uranus-Mars impulse. So we may look for trouble through overindulgence of the 
desires, which are indicated by the planets in Taurus and by Mars, the latter ruling the 
sign of Scorpio, which governs sex. Hence we may expect that wine and women will 
bring this man to his undoing. 

   Note that Mercury is in the 8th house, and aspected very weakly by a semi-sextile of 
Saturn, the sun, Jupiter, and Neptune. Mercury in Aries works under impulse. It being 
practically unaspected in this sign and Uranus being in opposition to Mars indicate a 
lack of forethought. With these conditions and having a common sign on the Ascendant 
this man was a perfect slave to his passions and desires. Here we may see what the, 
Virgo Ascendant with Uranus in conjunction shows regarding the will. A decided lack of 
will power is indicated. With Virgo, the natural 6th house sign on the Ascendant, and the 
sun in Taurus, this man was an easy victim of disease for both Virgo and Taurus have a 
decided fear of sickness. 

   We must never base our diagnosis on one or two afflictions, but we must study all the 
signs and planets very carefully. Some horoscopes show very plainly what is the matter, 
and at a glance we can see from a few aspects what the disease may be. But other 
horoscopes hide the symptoms, just as the doctor often finds it to be the case with his 
patients. Some tell him at once where the disease is, while others are a puzzle and the 
disease may be difficult to locate. Therefore the astrologer must study and reason to be 
very sure that he has the correct diagnosis. 

CHAPTER VII

PRELIMINARY STEPS IN DIAGNOSING

We are now ready to begin the real work of reading and diagnosing a chart. First we 
must know what the rising sign indicates, for by this we get the key to the patient's 
disposition. The Ascendant indicates the general nature of the planetary baptism which 
a man received at birth, and which will influence him all through this physical life. 
According to the stamp of the stellar forces at birth will a man's tendencies be. 
Remember, we do not say fate, but tendencies, for man has the power within him to 
change to a very great extent the influences that are shown in the horoscope. We must 
admit that the horoscope is the result of his past living and that it indicates a certain 
probable destiny. If he allows the stars to rule him, why then he becomes the victim of 
fate; but the wise man is he who rules his stars. 

   The Ascendant indicates the general characteristics and tendencies which are latent 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (26 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

within a man. Therefore this should be the starting point of our diagnosis. Then we must 
see how the four angles are represented. If we find common signs, namely, Gemini, 
Virgo, Sagittarius, and Pisces on the cusps, we have a patient who will respond quickly 
to suggestions, and while he will listen to the healer and may seemingly try to cooperate 
with him, still on account of his wavering tendencies, or let us say the weakness of will of 
the common sign person, he is prone to forget to follow directions. One's instructions 
must be repeated often or the common sign patient is apt to forget them. 

   If the Ascendant and the four angles, however, are occupied by the four cardinal 
signs, namely, Aries, Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn, you may expect cooperation from 
your patient; but if Aries is on the Ascendant, you must let him think that he is doing the 
work himself. Never order an Arian to do anything, but diplomatically ask him if he does 
not think so and so would be good for him, for Aries dislikes to follow the dictates of 
another. When he does follow your instructions, however, he will do it with great force, 
and impulsively. We sometimes hear of people who follow the doctor's orders to the 
extent that they will take a whole box of pills at one dose. Well, such is the Aries patient. 
He must have results quickly or he will lose his interest. The cardinal sign people as a 
rule are willing to cooperate with the healer, and they will also make every effort to 
overcome disease. 

   The fixed sign people, namely, those under Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius, are 
creatures of habit; that is, they are so fixed that when they get into a rut, or if they form a 
habit, they are very difficult for the healer to handle. This habit, which may be at the very 
bottom of the trouble and have caused the disease, they hold on to with tenacity. The 
fixed sign people have great determination, and when once they are aroused they 
cooperate fully with the healer. Taurus and Scorpio people may at times display a 
stubborn nature which is hard to combat, and they are also so full of fear that the healer 
must be very careful of his suggestions in their presence. He must always be optimistic 
and give suggestions of hope. 

   The healer should be familiar with the temperament and disposition of each sign, and 
realize that if the ruler of the sign is afflicted or if malefic planets are in the sign, the 
response will be very different than it will when the best sign of the sign is expressed. 
Remember, the unafflicted magnanimous, jovial, and loving Leo is a very different 
person from the afflicted blustering, bragging, quarrelsome, stubborn Leo. Similarly, we 
may find two sides to each sign. Let us study the signs and their rulers very carefully. 
Note also very carefully what aspects the ruler of the Ascendant makes, for this plant is 
usually the life ruler and has a great influence on the life of the native. 

   The next step is to study the mind, for if the mentality is weak, the healer finds his 
work most difficult. In the mind of man lies the power which may be used to control 
disease. A strong and well aspected Mercury will guide a man into a safe and sane path 
of living, and such a person is not prone to succumb to disease. But the afflicted 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (27 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

Mercury often leads man into temptations, and if the desire nature is strong and the 
mind weak, we may expect that the patient will not have the will to cooperate with the 
healer. Hence we may say that the healer must study the chart very carefully in order to 
trace the latent tendencies of his patient. When he has traced them, he is able to get to 
the first cause. Remember, everything in life has a first cause, and to get an 
understanding of a case we must go back to the beginning. 

  

CHAPTER VIII

HINTS AND HELPS FOR THE HEALER

   1.--NEVER, NEVER predict the time of death to your patient. Let the reader repeat this 
injunction so as to impress it firmly upon his mind. If you predict DEATH to a patient, 
YOU may become his executioner, and before your God you will be held accountable for 
a great wrong. There is an old adage which says, "While there's life, there's HOPE." No 
matter how strong the affliction may be in the horoscope, sometimes Divine Providence 
may lend a hand, and very serious periods may be passed with the proper help. 

   2.--The LAW does not permit a layman to diagnose disease for others; only the 
licensed physician may do this. 

   3.--The wise healer will NEVER discuss disease with his patient, nor will he ever 
diagnose to the patient. He will keep his knowledge for his own use in healing. 

   4.--At all times keep the patient's mind, if possible, from thoughts of disease, and 
before leaving give him some pleasant thought to help him along. Laugh and joke with 
him; always leave him with a smile, for cheerfulness is half the cure. 

   5.--Refrain from asking him the question, "How do you feel?" This has a tendency to 
throw his thoughts back to his physical body, which in illness is a good thing for him to 
forget. Let your first words of greeting be, "What a beautiful day! I am glad to see you." 
Any greeting is good that will bring cheer, and help the sufferer to forget his pain. 

   5A.--Never discuss the patient's horoscope with him; if he insists however, then give 
him encouraging hints only, but NEVER tell him of an impending crisis. 

   6.--Sick people often have a morbid desire to probe into the future, to know of any 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (28 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

impending crisis or of possible death, especially if they have some knowledge of 
astrology. The healer should request the patient to discontinue the study of his own 
horoscope while he is under his care; otherwise he will find that many adverse 
suggestions obtained from such study will appear in the mind of the patient, which will 
hinder the healing. 

   6A.--There are lines of force running between the two poles of a magnet, and there is 
in all nature a positive and negative side. The human body is a most powerful magnet 
expressing both the positive and the negative aspects. When a man is ill, he expressed 
the negative side of his nature, and therefore the healer should (and will if he is the right 
healer) express the opposite aspect, namely the positive. When this is done, the patient 
will respond quickly, and the healing will be successful. Therefore it is very necessary 
that the healer express positiveness and cheerfulness in the sickroom. 

   7.--When a man is ill, his power of resistance is at its lowest ebb, and he is very 
sensitive to influences from without. At that time the currents of the vital body are turned 
inward, and he is apt to attract thoughts and magnetism from others which if negative 
will have an adverse effect upon him. When a man is in good health, the vital body 
ethers radiate outward and thereby keep out negative elements, also throw out 
impurities. 

   8.--When one is ill, his power of resistance is low, and at that time the vibrations of the 
healer have a grater effect than at other times; his influence is therefore powerful either 
for good or evil. If the healer's thoughts are not pure, if his life is not clean, then his 
influence on the patient is not good. Therefore it is most necessary that the healer LIVE 
THE LIFE of purity, otherwise he can do more harm than good. 

   9.--If the healer's Saturn is on the Ascendant or in the sixth house of the patient, he 
will have little success in helping the latter. 

   10.--A healer with the sun in Scorpio or with Scorpio on the Ascendant is usually 
successful. 

   11.--The sun in fiery signs gives good healing power, also greater power over the 
diseases of those signs than is possessed by others. 

   12.--People born with common signs on the angles or with the sun in a common sign 
make the best nurses; they have power to soothe the sick, and they bring a quieting 
influence into the sick room. 

   13.--When Saturn is the afflicter, the skin is often very dry, and the vitality low. Rub the 
skin briskly with rough bath gloves to stimulate circulation. 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (29 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

   14.--People with Virgo on the Ascendant or with the sun in Virgo make good nurses. 

   15.--To calm a patient who has an afflicted Mars, it is well to choose a Saturn hour. 

   16.--People with Saturn in the sixth house rarely make a success in the art of healing. 

   17.--When the patient is suffering with nervous trouble, but Mars is not afflicted, it is 
well to use a sun or a Mars hour for manipulations or ministrations. 

   18.--When the moon is increasing in light, namely, between the new and the full, 
stimulants have the greatest effect and sedatives the least. 

   19.--When the moon is conjunction Saturn, stimulants have very little effect; but should 
the moon be conjoined to Mars, especially if Mars is strong in the horoscope or is in the 
sign of Aries, then the healer should be most careful in administering stimulants. 

  

CHAPTER IX

APHORISMS

   1.--The moon may be regarded as the giver and the taker of life; that is, the moon acts 
as a medium in carrying the life forces from the sun to the earth and man, and the moon 
forces also eventually produce death. 

   2.--When the moon is full, the tides are higher, the bones are fuller of marrow, and 
oysters are fuller than at any other time. The temperature is then also highest in fevers. 

   3.--During the first half of life, particularly in childhood the moon has greatest rule, and 
during the latter half of life the sun has the strongest influence. 

   4.--The moon has great influence over insane people, that is, lunatics, and over 
hysterical, epileptic, and nervous patients. These patients feel the changes of the moon 
very greatly; especially are they very restless during the full of the moon. They should 
never sleep with the moon shining on them. 

   5.--At the new of the moon the material forces are weakest. The period of the waning 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (30 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

moon, namely between the full and the new, is strongest for spiritual work, for at that 
time the influence of the sun is greatest. 

   6.--Do not perform an operation when the moon is in the sign which rules the part of 
the body to be operated upon. Ptolemy says, "Pierce not with iron that part of the body 
which may be governed by the sign actually occupied by the moon." 

   7.--Operations performed at the exact change of the moon are rarely successful. 
Choose the time for an operation when the moon is waxing or, as it is commonly termed, 
the light of the moon. Do not operate when the sun is in the sign which rules the part of 
the body to be cut. 

   8.--The moon revolves around the zodiac in about twenty-eight days. Disease reaches 
a turning point every seven days. Starting from the place of the moon at the beginning of 
the illness, a change may be expected in seven days (the square), on the fourteenth day 
(the opposition), and on the twenty-first day (another square). 

   9.--The moon rules acute disease, the sun chronic. 

   10.--It is well to watch the squares and the opposition of the moon to the transiting 
sun, Mars, and Saturn when operating. 

   11.--The moon has greatest rule over the health of the woman while the sun 
influences the health of the man. 

   12.--From the new to the full moon stimulants produce the most effect and sedatives 
are the weakest; decrease the dose of the one and increase the other. 

   13.--When the increasing moon is in good aspect to the radical Jupiter or Venus, 
cardiac stimulation produces most lasting results. Palpitation is most efficiently treated 
when the moon is decreasing and aspecting the above planets favorably. Apply heart 
stimulants with extreme care when the moon is evilly aspected to these planets and 
especially when it is dark or waning. 

   14.--Good aspects to the radical moon from the transiting Jupiter and Venus are very 
helpful. 

   15. Saturn when placed in the sixth house of the horoscope at birth has a tendency to 
lower the vitality. 

   16.--The sign in which the sun is at birth is a very vital locality in the horoscope, its 
influence varying according as it is cardinal, fixed, or common. Also the house 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (31 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

containing the sun, be it cadent, succedent, or an angle is important. From the strength 
of the sun you may often judge the response which you will get from your patient. 

   17.--Benefic aspects between the radical sun and Mars give great vitality and 
resistance to disease. An evil aspect between the Sun and Mars is better from a health 
standpoint than no aspect at all. 

   18.--Aspects to the Ascendant and the Midheaven are often unreliable unless you are 
absolutely sure of the minute of birth, and as clocks are frequently off time and there is 
much confusion in regard to different kinds of time, these two points should be used with 
great discretion. 

   19.--Planets that are in critical degrees (See Simplified Scientific Astrology, page 81) 
have a greater influence either for good or evil than in other degrees. 

   20.--Certain fixed stars have a powerful influence on disease. Especially should the 
three following nebular spots be watched: the Pleiades, 29 degrees of Taurus; Ascelli, 6 
degrees of Leo; and Antares, 8 degrees of Sagittarius. 

   21.--A child with no aspect between the sun and Mars is subject to many child's 
diseases. 

   22.--A patient with many planets in airy signs requires more air in the sleeping 
apartment than others do; planets in fiery signs incline one to require much sunlight; and 
people with planets in watery or earthy signs suffer from too much sunlight. 

   23.--With fixed signs on the angles and afflictions in common signs, the native 
overcomes disease; when common signs are on the angles and the afflictions in fixed 
signs, he is more apt to succumb to disease. 

   24.--A well aspected sun when in the sign of Aries or Leo gives great vitality and an 
ability to throw off disease. 

   25.--When people with Aries rising or the sun or Mars in the sign of Aries at birth are 
ill, their temperature rises much higher than that of other patients, and they suffer much 
more quickly from fever, for there is a tendency of the blood to rush to the head and to 
the skin. 

   26.--An affliction between the Sun and Saturn or a square between the moon and the 
sun gives low vitality. When this condition is found in the horoscope it is well during 
illness to watch the progressed moon in aspect to these afflicted plants, and also 
especially the transits of the new and full moons. 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (32 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

   27.--Retrograde planets give very little help in disease. Regardless of whether they are 
in good or evil aspect, their influence is latent until they turn direct; then we may look for 
their awakened influence. 

   28.--Planets when they turn from retrograde to direct are slow in motion. Their 
influence while in this slow motion is not as vital nor as powerful as when they are swiftly 
moving. 

   29.--Planets are strong when in signs of their own nature, also when in aspect to 
planets which are in compatible signs. 

   30.--When the hour of birth is not known a fairly accurate diagnosis may be obtained 
by using a flat chart, i.e., by placing Aries on the first house, Taurus on the second, 
Gemini on the third, etc. 

   31.--Saturn's influence is contracting, while Mars' is loosening. 

   32.--The sun rules the vital fluid which is specialized through the spleen. When the sun 
is afflicted at birth disease frequently occurs when progressions of the planets afflict the 
sun. 

   33.--When the radical sun or moon is within orb of the Pleiades in 29 degrees of 
Taurus, the Ascelli in Leo 6, or Antares in Sagittarius 8, trouble with the eyes is 
indicated, especially if Saturn, Mars, or Uranus is also at one of these spots. 

   34.--Mercury in the twelfth house, afflicted by the sun, Saturn, Uranus or Mars, also 
Mercury in Capricorn, the house of Saturn, when afflicted by a malefic will affect the 
hearing. 

   35.--Watch the malefic planets when they are placed in either the sixth or the twelfth 
house, the sixth being the house which has rule over sickness, and the twelfth having 
rule over hospitals and places of confinement. 

   36.--It is necessary to observe the antipathy between certain signs and planets. For 
instance, the fiery Mars may be posited in the water Pisces, or the cold, earthy Saturn in 
the fiery sign of Aries. When a planet is in the sign of its detriment, it may especially 
become a menace to health. 

   37.--The place where Saturn is found in the horoscope is most likely to be a weak 
place in the physical body, the place most easily affected by disease. 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (33 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

   38.--The Lucifer spirits from Mars aid in maintaining the heat of the blood by dissolving 
the iron, a Mars metal, and enabling the blood to attract oxygen, a sun element. 

   39.--A patient with the planet Mercury in square aspect to Saturn is apt to suffer from 
gloom. A cheerful, sunny room should be chosen, with rose colored walls. 

   40.--The sign of Leo on the Ascendant with the sun in its exaltation sign, Aries, gives 
abundant vitality and the power to throw off disease. 

   41.--If a disease is caused by an affliction of Mars, we may look for help when the 
progressed moon reaches a good aspect of Venus. When the disease is of a Saturnian 
nature, we may expect the greatest help when the moon aspects Jupiter. Note the 
symbol of Venus, the higher octave of Mars, and that of Jupiter, the higher octave of 
Saturn; in each case the latter symbol is the inversion of the former. 

   42.--If the moon is in conjunction with Saturn at the beginning of disease, we may 
expect that the disease will be of long duration. 

   43.--Disease related to the moon is of an acute nature and may change within twenty-
eight days, but when the disease is related to the sun, it is of a more chronic nature and 
likely to be of longer duration and more stubborn in resisting treatment. 

  

CHAPTER X

DIAGNOSING FROM THE HANDS AND FINGER NAILS

The astrologer often finds himself at a great disadvantage in his reading and 
diagnosing in that the patient is frequently mistaken in the hour of birth or is not able to 
give any time. Also in seven out of every ten cases in which the native thinks he has the 
right time, the horoscope when corrected by events or rectified is found to be wrong in 
this particular. People are constantly coming to the Rosicrucian Headquarters with 
horoscopes which they have erected or have had some professional astrologer set up, 
and in numerous cases in which they have been positive they had the correct time of 
birth the rising sign does not tally with their personal appearance and temperament. 

   In one instance a woman claimed to have Pisces rising, but when we met her 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (34 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

personally we at once concluded that she had the first degrees of Aries on the 
Ascendant for she had red hair a decided ram's profile, a prominent Roman nose, and 
full lips, which if you read The Message of the Stars you will find tally with Aries. Another 
woman came to Headquarters claiming to have Leo on the Ascendant, but she had a 
slender little body, a long face with decidedly receding chin, long slender conical fingers, 
and long nails--a perfect picture of Virgo. One case came to our notice of an extremely 
tall woman. The hour of birth she gave brought Taurus on the Ascendant, but her 
personal appearance was very similar to that of Gemini. The horoscope had many 
planets in the signs indicating height: the sun, Jupiter, Mercury, and Neptune were in 
Gemini, and the moon and Venus in Aries. This would 

give her length of arm and upper body. At first appearance we doubted her rising sign of 
Taurus, but when we examined her finger nails they were found to be the perfect 
Taurean type. Taurus was also indicated by the heavy jaw and full neck. A Gemini 
person's nails are small and the neck slender. 

   Diagram A will give the reader a key to the pure types of finger nails, correlated to the 
signs of the zodiac. Horoscopes with many planets in one sign will change the nails. In 
the time the student will be able by using 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (35 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

this chart to detect the characteristics of any type. Note how the types harmonize. Fixed 
sign nails are broad, showing great persistence and determination. The signs ruled by 
Venus, Taurus and Libra, give a more rounded nail; the fingers are well shaped and 
long, and the mount of Venus, which is at the base of the thumb is quite rounded and 
full. We could write much more on the hands and their characteristics as compared with 
the horoscope, but as this chapter is especially written to help in the diagnosis of 
disease, we will confine ourselves largely to this matter. 

   It is not very difficult to detect diseases which are latent. For instance, look at Diagram 
No. 1. We see a large, broad nail. This is similar to the pure Leo type. With heart trouble 
latent, as in case No. 5A, where the impulsive Mars is on the Ascendant, square to 
Venus indicating poor circulation and a weak heart, we will find that the little half-moons 
at the base of the nail are blue in color, and the lines in the palms of the hands are also 
blue. When heart trouble has developed to a chronic stage and is deep-seated, we find 
the nails ridged lengthwise as in Diagram No. 1, and the corners turned upward away 
from the flesh as in Diagram No. 2. A horoscope which will illustrate this case may be 
found in The Message of the Stars, figure 3 on page 625. 

   The nail shown in Diagram No. 3 is characteristic of cases such as No. 10A. The nail 
which indicates liver trouble is usually large in size but longer than No. 1 or 2. The nail 
wedges into the flesh on the sides, and is usually of a yellowish tint. The lines of the 
palm are also yellow. Remember when looking into the palm of the hand that the color of 
the lines is a valuable clue to the health of the patient. If in good health the lines should 
be of a soft pin; if the blood is impoverished, the lines are pale and white; if the patient is 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (36 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

feverish, the lines are red; if the liver is out of order, they are yellow; and if the heart 
action is wrong, the color is blue. 

   In Diagram No. 4, we have a nail which is generally found on the hands of people who 
have common or watery signs on the angles. Many planets in common or watery signs 
produce what is called the psychic type. People with long, slender, claw-like fingers and 
nails are supersensitive and lacking in strength and vitality. This type of nail is often 
found on the hands of the idle rich, women who nurse a lap dog instead of a child and 
always have a box of chocolates at their side. Long, slender, well shaped hands and 
nails belong to the psychic type, and when the nails are ridged lengthwise and the color 
of the nail is pale, it is an indication of a tendency to weakness of the lungs. People with 
long, slender nails are usually susceptible to colds and coughs. 

   Nail No. 5 belongs to the nervous person who is intellectually inclined and prone to 
overdo. 

   Diagram No. 6 is that of a nail which indicates the person who frequently bites his 
nails. It shows one who has little control over his temper and whose feelings are very 
easily hurt. Such people are always carrying a chip on their shoulder and always looking 
for slights. 

THE THUMB

   A well balanced thumb indicates ability to control the emotions, including anger. but 
where the thumb is short and the end of it is club- shaped with a short nail, there is no 
control whatever over anger and things easily turn red before the eyes. 

  

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (37 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

 DIAGRAM B

   The thumb is a wonderful indicator of character, and must be taken into consideration 
when diagnosing from the hand. In Diagram B we see that the mount of Venus and the 
thumb are both a little too heavy. This is a typical Taurean thumb with the mount of 
Venus very large, indicating a very strong desire nature. The thumb is short and thick, 
showing a lack of will power to rule the desires. When the thumb is long and well 
shaped, it is an indication of high ideals and the will to carry them out. 

   In a well proportioned thumb the first phalanx should occupy two- fifths and the second 
phalanx three-fifths of the length of the thumb. The tip of the thumb should reach the 
middle joint of the first finger. A very long thumb indicates that a person is obstinate, 
headstrong; a very short one indicates lack of logic and a constant changing from one 
thing to another. If the thumb is very thick throughout its entire length, the desires and 
tastes are more or less coarse and primitive, and the person is lacking in tack and 
refinement. If the thumb is very wide, especially at the tip, it indicates one who "sees 
red" easily, often one who has an ungovernable temper; it also indicates stubbornness. 
The patient who has a normally developed thumb will carry out the physician's orders. 

   If the first phalanx of the thumb is very long and the second one is short, it indicates 
one who is reckless and whose actions are not controlled by reason. If the first phalanx 
is short and the second very long it indicates a talker, but not a doer. Such a person is 
mistrustful of everybody and lacks self-control. 

   The mount of Luna is located on the little finger side of the palm and extends from 
about the middle of the palm to the wrist. When large and full it indicates excessive 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (38 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

emotion and imaginations, but when properly proportioned it gives a well balanced mind. 
It is this mount of the moon and lines found upon it which give the diagnostician a clue to 
mental afflictions and designate the lunar person. 

  

INDICATIONS FROM THE FINGER NAILS

   Long, slender nails curving inward toward the flesh: scrofulous and impure blood, 
weakness of the lungs, and throat trouble. 

   White spots on the nails: anemia, impoverished blood, nervousness. 

   Long nails, thin and brittle: weak vitality, negativeness, timidity. 

   Black or blue spots on the half moons: poison in blood, obstructed circulation, or 
restricted heart action. The shape of the nails should be taken into consideration before 
making a decision; see diagrams on page 63. 

   Well rounded and clear cut half moons on nails indicate good circulation; if pale pink, 
they indicate health; if dark blue, see page 64 for meaning. 

   Nails whose top surface is concave indicate spinal weakness. 

   Patients who have long smooth hands, the flesh soft and smooth, the fingers flexible, 
the nails white in color, and especially when the nails wedge tightly into the side of the 
finger and the wedge portion is colored, may be said to have been born tired. They will 
make little attempt to help the healer; they would prefer to have the Invisible Helpers do 
the work for them. 

   

 

❍     Click here to continue.... 
❍     Table of Contents 
❍     Alphabetical Index 
❍     Click here to return to The Rosicrucian Fellowship Home Page. 
❍     Rosicrucian Fellowship Astrology Study Courses information 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (39 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



Astro-Diagnosis, A Guide to Healing, by Max Heindel [Chapters I thru X]

❍     Order the printed version of this book. 

  

Rosicrucian Fellowship - International Headquarters 
2222 Mission Avenue, Oceanside, CA 92054-2399, USA 

PO Box 713, Oceanside, CA 92049-0713, USA 
(760) 757 - 6600 

(760) 721 - 3806 (fax) 
E-mail: rosfshp@rosicrucian.com

 

httpR:/a/wnwgwa.Rroasikcreuscian.com/adh/adheng01.htm (40 of 40)17/09/2006 09:31:27 a.m. tamilnavarasam.com



 

 

The Message of the Stars
by

Max Heindel 
and 

Augusta Foss Heindel

Click here for the graphics printed book cover. 

Click here for the photograph of Max Heindel. 

An Esoteric Exposition of 
Natal and Medical Astrology 

Explaining the Arts of 
Reading the Horoscope and Diagnosing 

Disease 

THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP 
INTERNATIONAL HEADQUARTERS 

P.O. BOX 713 
OCEANSIDE, CALIFORNIA, 92049-0713, U.S.A. 

Table of Contents

CHAPTER I 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



EVOLUTION AS SHOWN IN THE ZODIAC 

   It is a matter of common knowledge among mystics that the evolutionary career of mankind 
is indissolubly bound up with the divine hierarchies who rule the planets and the signs of the 
Zodiac, and that passage of the Sun and the planets through the twelve signs of the Zodiac, 
marks man's progress in time and in space. Therefore it is not to be wondered at, that in the 
course of their investigations into the spiritual development of mankind, the writers have also 
encountered much that deals with the Zodiac which is the boundary of our evolutionary sphere 
at the present time. So much has been perceived in the memory of nature that sheds light 
upon obscure passages of the Bible, that notes have been made from time to time of different 
points, but how to collect and collage these dissociated writings into a united whole, has been 
a great problem for a long time. Even now, the writers know and feel that what they are 
bringing forth is only a very, very weak attempt to set before the students that great body of 
facts which have come to them through the memory of nature. They feel, however, that this will 
give a new and more profound meaning to the old symbols, and that by passing on what has 
been found they put themselves in line to receive more light. 

   Concerning the future evolution of planets; the Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception teaches, on 
page 256, that "when the beings upon the planet have evolved to a sufficient degree, the 
planet becomes a Sun, the fixed center of the Solar System. When the beings there have 
evolved to a still greater degree, and consequently it has reached its maximum of brilliancy, it 
breaks up into a Zodiac and becomes, so to speak, the womb of a new Solar System. Thus the 
Great hosts of Divine beings who, until then, were confined upon that Sun gain freedom of 
actions upon a great number of stars whence they can affect, in different ways, the system 
which grows up within their sphere of influence. The planets or many-bearing worlds within the 
Zodiac are constantly being worked upon by these forces but in various ways according to the 
stage they have reached in evolution. Our Sun could not have become a sun until it set out 
from itself all the beings who were not sufficiently evolved to endure the high rate of vibration 
and the great luminosity of the beings who were qualified for that evolution. All the beings upon 
the different planets would have been consumed had they remained in the Sun. This visible 
Sun, however, though it is a place of evolution for beings vastly above man, is not by any 
means, the Father of other planets, as material science supposes. On the contrary, it is itself 
an emanation from the central Sun, which is the invisible source of all that IS in our solar 
system." 

   "Our visible Sun is but the mirror in which are reflected the Rays of energy from the Spiritual 
Sun, the real Sun is as invisible as the real man." 

   From this teaching it is apparent that the great spiritual hierarchies which are now guiding 
our evolution, have had their training for this path in previous schemes of manifestation, also 
that what they are now doing, we shall some day do for others. Already the foremost among 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



our race are treading the path of initiation, and have thereby advanced into stages, far beyond 
the general status of our present humanity. It has been learned that those who have gone 
through the Mercurial School of the lesser Mysteries, and have graduated from the School of 
the Greater Mysteries are now preparing human evolution for the Jupiter Period. They have 
entered the planet Jupiter, by way of one of the Moons, which serves as a stepping stone. 
Others there are, unfortunately, who have gone the other way. We read in the Rosicrucian 
Cosmo-Conception, that even as the whole population of the earth was at one time expelled 
from the present Sun because of their inability to keep up with the vibrations of the beings 
thereon, thus hindering them and being hindered themselves, so also it becomes necessary in 
the Lemurian Epoch, to expel a number of the stragglers from earth. Thus the Moon was cast 
out into space to revolve as a Satellite around our present planet. Those unfortunates are 
gradually degenerating and the time will come when they will all go to the planet Saturn, which 
is the door to Chaos. Thence they will be expelled to inter-planetary space to await the time 
when, in a new system, there will be a favorable condition for their further evolution. 

  

THE GATE OF LIFE AND DEATH 

   Thus the Zodiac and the planets are as a book in which we may read the history of Humanity 
during past ages, and they also give a key to the future which is in store for us. In the famous 
Zodiac in the Temple of Denderah, Cancer is not pictured as we have it in modern days. There 
it is a beetle, a scarab. This was the emblem of the soul, and Cancer has always been known 
in ancient times, as well as among modern mystics, to be the sphere of the soul, the gate of 
life in the Zodiac whence the spirits coming into rebirth, enter our sub-lunary conditions. It is 
therefore aptly ruled by the Moon which is the planet of fecundation, and it is noteworthy that 
we find Capricorn, which is its opposite, ruled by Saturn the Planet of Death and Chaos, who is 
mystically depicted as "the reaper with his scythe and hour glass in hand." These two opposite 
signs are therefore turning points in the soul's career. Cancer and Capricorn respectively mark 
the highest ascent of the Sun into the Northern Hemisphere, and its lowest descent into the 
South. We observe that during the summer when the Sun is in the sphere of Cancer and allied 
signs, fecundation and growth are the order of the day. But when the Sun is in the South, in 
Capricorn, we have winter, when nature is dead. The fruits of the summer are then consumed 
and assimilated by us. As a circle dance of the Sun among the twelve signs determines the 
seasons of the year when direct, causing the germination of myriads of seeds cast in the earth, 
also the mating of the fauna, which then makes the world alive with the sights and sounds of 
manifested life, and at another time leaves the world dumb, dull and drear in winter's gloom, 
under the sway of Saturn, so by the slower backward movement, known as the Precession of 
the Equinox, does it produce the great changes which we know as Evolution. In fact, this 
precessional measure of the sun marks the birth and death of races, nations and their 
religions, for the pictorial Zodiac is a symbolical presentation of our past, present and future 
development. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



  

CAPRICORN 

   Capricorn, the goat, is not a goat at all as we know that animal, but part fish and part goat. Its 
Saturnine rulership, and the fact that it receives the Sun at the dawn of each New Year, 
naturally by analogy associates it with the beginning of precessional epochs. It represents the 
stage in evolution covering transition from fish, through amphibia to the mammalian form. The 
belligerency of the goat is well known, and an apt symbol of the struggle for existence, in which 
the weak perish unless able to outdistance their foes. This phase of the matter is sometimes 
expressed in the symbol, when drawn as part fish and part antelope. Jacob, in the forty-ninth 
chapter of Genesis, pronounces blessings upon his children, which symbolize the twelve signs. 
There he speaks of Naphtali as a "hind" let loose; thus a very apt symbol of Capricorn, for 
when the Sun is there at each winter solstice, it is starting a race through the circle of twelve 
signs, which it must complete in a given time--a year.

SAGITTARIUS

   When the Sun leaves Capricorn, by precession, it enters the sign Sagittarius, and this is 
pictured in the symbolical Zodiac as a Centaur, part horse and part man. Thus it shows aptly, 
the fact that we have evolved through the animal stage into the human. The centaur is in the 
act of drawing his bow, showing that there is something for which the human spirit, on its 
pilgrimage through matter, is seeking, that it aspires to something that lies beyond it, as a lofty 
ideal, for the bow points upward to the stars.

SCORPIO

   The next step in human unfoldment is not so much along the physical lines as along the 
mental. Its nature is shown by the Sun's passage through the sign Scorpio, which is pictorially 
represented as a serpent or scorpion, emblems of cunning and subtlety. It is plain from this 
symbol that the faculty of the mind evolved by infant humanity was cunning, and we still see 
that that is a characteristic trait among the lower races, the lower classes and the lower 
natures even among our present-day humanity.

LIBRA

But, when the Sun enters the sign Libra, 'The Scales,' by precession, the balance of reason 
gives him a new start upon the evolutionary path. Under the care of divine instructors man had 
at that time advanced to the point where because of this new faculty, reason, he could be 
made fully responsible to nature's laws, and thus reap what he had sown, that he might learn 
the lesson of life by actual experience, be able to reason out the connection between cause 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



and effect and in time learn to govern himself so as to progress further upon the path.

VIRGO

   Thus, under the guidance of the spiritual hierarchies, focused through the signs of Capricorn, 
Sagittarius, Scorpio, and Libra, were his physical, moral and mental attributes acquired, and he 
was equipped and mental attributes acquired, and he was equipped to commence the spiritual 
side of his evolution. The germ of this progress is hidden in the celestial virgin, the sign Virgo, 
which is the vehicle of the immaculate conception, the heavenly mother of Christ; not of one 
Christ only, but of many. This is one of the most sublime signs of the Zodiac and one of the 
most mystical, so fraught with hidden meaning that its full import cannot be fully understood 
save when viewed by the internal light of spiritual illumination. Yearly, at the winter solstice, the 
immaculate Madonna is ascendant at midnight, when the new born Sun commences to rise to 
the task of growing the grain and grape, to save humanity from the cold and famine, which 
would inevitably result were he to remain in the southern declination. The Sun is therefore an 
apt symbol of the Savior, born to feed his flock on the spiritual bread of life. But, as we must 
have eyes attuned to light to see the sun, so must the Christ be born within before we can 
perceive spiritual light. As Angelus Silesius says: 

"Though Christ a thousand times in Bethlehem be born 
And not within thyself, thy soul will be forlorn. 
The Cross of Golgotha thou lookest to in vain 
Unless within thyself it be set up again." 

   Therefore, by the precessional passage of the Sun through the sign Virgo, the germinal 
impulse was given towards the birth of Christ within man. The mystic marriage of the lower self 
to the higher, the immaculate conception, and the divine motherhood, which nourishes deep in 
its bosom, unseen by a scoffing world, "the new born Christ," are actual experiences of a 
growing number of people. And without the celestial prototype, fructified by the solar 
precession, this would be an impossibility; neither has this ideal been realized in such fullness 
during the past ages as today. The reason of this will appear when we take up the joint 
consideration of opposite signs of the Zodiac.

LEO

   A great future is in store for this offspring of the celestial virgin. Listen to the wonderful 
prophecy of Isaiah: "For unto us a child is born, unto us a Son is given, and the government 
shall be upon his shoulders and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty 
God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Of the increase of His government and 
peace there shall be no end." 

   Humanity is to rise to a wonderful spiritual height and this is symbolized by the Sun's 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



precessional passage through the royal sign Leo, pictorially represented by the king of beasts, 
the lion. this is an apt allusion to the King of Creation, who will then embody the three great 
virtues of the Master Man, Strength, Wisdom and Beauty. 

   It is wonderful to trace the various phases of the religions given to the Great Aryo-Semitic 
Race from the time they were "called out" in the latter third of the Atlantean Epoch, to the end 
of the Aquarian Age, when a new race will have been definitely born. This aspect of the Zodiac 
will form the subject of the following pages. It will shed light on many of the most obscure 
passages of the Bible, as only study of this Cosmic Science can. 

   When we consider the Zodiac in its religious as well as its evolutionary aspects, by means of 
the six pair of opposite signs into which the twelve may be divided, we also commence with 
Cancer and Capricorn, for the reason given in the previous article, namely: that these are the 
solstitial points where the Sun reaches its highest and lowest declination. 

   Considered in this manner, we find that there are two sets of three pairs of signs, the first 
being Cancer and Capricorn, Gemini and Sagittarius, Taurus and Scorpio. In these pairs of 
signs we may read the history of human evolution and religion, in the early, the middle and the 
latter third of the Atlantean Epoch. This is also divisible into three distinct periods, namely: the 
Aryan Age, from Moses to Christ, which comes under Aries-Libra; the Piscean Age, which 
takes in the last two thousand years under Pisces-Virgo Catholicism; and the two thousand 
years which are ahead of us, called the Aquarian Age, where the signs Aquarius and Leo will 
be illuminated and vivified by the solar precession, for the upliftment of the Son of Man 
(Aquarius), by the Christ within, the Lion of Judah (Leo), to the estate of Superman. 

   It must not be thought, however, that the Atlantean Epoch only lasted while the Sun by 
precession went through Cancer, Gemini, and Taurus, a period of only six thousand and a few 
hundred years; far from it; but there are spirals within spirals and recapitulation takes place in 
the epochs and races, so that we may know what is the general destiny by looking at the Sun's 
passage through these signs and therewith taking this import and symbolism into 
consideration. It may also be said that the further we advance the smaller do the spirals 
become, the shorter the time in which a given improvement is made, because of the 
proficiency we attained in former ages, and therefore it is extremely probable that this present 
is the last lap, that the coming Aquarian Age is the final preparatory school day which will fit us 
for the new age, the Sixth Epoch, and that this will begin when the Sun by precession enters 
Capricorn. 

   This, of course, would mean that the Second Advent must take place just before that time, 
and though it seems to us that so many signs point that way, still it is a mere surmise and may 
not have any truth in it at all. Thousands of people have been misled during all the ages that 
we know of, to think that Christ would soon be here; it is, however, better that we are looking 
forward to it than if we should say with some, that it will never take place. In that case the 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



Great Day would find us unprepared and we should find ourselves among the stragglers who 
are unfit to attend the wedding feast of the Higher Self to the lower because lacking the "soul- 
body," the "wedding garment," necessary to enfold them.

CANCER-CAPRICORN

   The Sun's passage by precession through the sphere of Cancer with its opposite sign 
Capricorn, designates the early third of the Atlantean period, which was intensely watery as 
the whole earth was covered by a dense, drenching fog. The Niebelung, or "Children of the 
Mist," lived then in the basins of the Earth. Cancer was not then represented by the same 
symbol as today; in ancient times it was pictorially figured as a beetle or scarab. This was the 
signature of the soul, for then mankind was much less body than soul. 

   The sign Cancer is watery in its nature, and the fish part of Capricorn, the opposite sign, also 
helps to symbolize this state of life under water when the Sun went through the watery sign 
Cancer by precession. The Moon, the planet of fecundation, points mystically to this period of 
germination, when mankind first commenced to exercise the Creative function at the dictates 
of desire inculcated by the Lucifer Spirits. Thus mankind opened the Gate of physical Life 
through Cancer, and strayed into the terrestrial sphere, but opposite stood Saturn, the ruler of 
Capricorn, ready to slay them with his scythe, and usher them through the Gate of Death back 
into the spiritual realms where they are at home. 

   Capricorn was the opposite of Cancer and embodied the ideal that as the goat climbs the 
mountains, so man must leave the basins of Atlantis and come up from the mist.

GEMINI-SAGITTARIUS

   Our condition during the middle third of the Atlantean Epoch is illustrated in the Sun's 
passage through the sign Gemini, the twins, which aptly represent infant humanity. During this 
age the division of soul from soul by the veil of flesh, which we call the body, became more 
noticeable, for the atmosphere had already cleared to a considerable extend, and the faculties 
of the spirit had become more focused in its physical instrument. With this delusion of the 
personal self, there came at once the idea of "me" and "thee," "mine" and "thine," our individual 
interests commenced to clash with those of others, so that a tragedy such as that recorded 
between Cain and Abel became possible. Nor was the shedding of blood confined to human 
beings, for we learn from the Bible that "Nimrod was a might hunter". This savage ideal was 
expressed in the Celestial Centaur, Sagittarius, with his bow and arrow. 

   But both of these pairs of opposites, Cancer-Capricorn and Gemini-Sagittarius, may be 
considered pre-historic hieroglyphics of a development accomplished in Sidereal years, long 
past, though none the less important on that account. Our own times, with the development 
prescribed for them, are symbolically represented in the two pairs of signs within the fixed 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



cross, the Bull, the Lion, the Serpent and the Man. 

   For that reason the two pairs of opposites comprising the fixed signs, Taurus-Scorpio and 
Leo-Aquarius, are mentioned in the Bible, and we shall find that our modern systems of 
religion are full of allusions to the three pairs of opposites. Aquarius-Leo and the two adjacent 
pairs of signs, Aries-Libra and Pisces-Virgo. These three pairs of opposites are, as already 
stated, emblematic of the development in the entire Aryan Epoch. In the early third of this 
Epoch, the Sun by precession went through the sign Aries, the middle third of its find the Sun 
in Pisces, by precession, and during the last third the Sun will go through the sign Aquarius. 
Then the solstitial point Capricorn will see the inauguration of a new cycle or age. 

   The spiritual preparation for this development commenced about thirteen thousand B.C., 
when the Sun by precession, was in the sign Libra, the Balance, the last time. Different phases 
of this germinal impregnation of people then living were carried on during the precessional 
travel of the Sun through Virgo, Leo, and culminated in Cancer about eight thousand B.C. 
when the last of Atlantis was destroyed by water, substantially as related by the Egyptian 
priests to Plato. We shall see presently how the germinal ideals, given to humanity in those far. 
by-gone days have grown and flowered into factors of human development and spiritual 
standards of the greatest importance.

TAURUS-SCORPIO

   In the latter third of Atlantis, egoism had developed to a far greater degree than before, the 
spiritual sight had been lost by the large majority of the people who then lived entirely on the 
material plane and gloried particularly in their material possessions. 

   The Bull was very properly worshiped by them, being an emblem of strength necessary to 
conquer the material world. It was, on account of its prodigious strength, an invaluable aid in all 
their work. The proverb about "the flesh pots of Egypt" has remained illustrative to the present 
day, to show how abundantly that animal supplied their physical need of food, the milk of the 
female being also an important article of diet. The possession of many cattle was therefore 
ardently desired by the ancient infant nations, and the worship of the Bull was inaugurated 
under the solar precession through Taurus during earlier Great Sidereal Years, and continued 
to the comparatively modern times, when the Sun by precession went through the sign of 
Celestial Bull for the last time. 

   At that point when the Sun entered the sign of the Lamb, Aries, the Aryan religions were 
inaugurated. The religion of the Lamb is to hold sway for the next Great Sidereal Year, while 
the Sun by precession passes around the twelve signs of the Zodiac, as the religion of the Bull 
has held sway during the previous celestial year from the time the Sun entered Taurus, until it 
left the same sign on its next passage. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   New religions, however, are not revealed in their fullness at the beginning; they are started 
and go through a period of gestation long before the religion which they are to succeed ends 
its material existence, and similarly, and ancient religion about to be abrogated survives along 
after the religion which succeeds it has become the official source of upliftment for humanity. 
The original Semites, chosen to inaugurate the worship of the Lamb, Aries, during the Aryan 
Epoch, were taken from "Egypt," the home of the Bull "Taurus." Not our modern Egypt 
however. The story of Pharaoh, who endeavored to prevent their emigration and was drowned, 
has reference to Atlantis which was submerged thousands of years before Moses is supposed 
to have made his escape with the Israelites through the "Red Sea." The facts underlying the 
story are that a multitude of people left the land where the bull "Taurus" was worshiped, 
(Atlantis or Egypt) whose inhabitants were then drowned, to seek a :promised land" beyond 
the water which had engulfed an "ungodly nation." There they were dedicated to the worship of 
the "Lamb" Aries which had been slain in "Egypt" (Atlantis); through its blood these pioneers 
had been preserved from death, and it was thus "the Lamb slain from the foundation of the 
(present) World" which we call the Aryan Epoch. Noah's escape presents another phase of the 
same occurrence relating that the mists which had enveloped Atlantis condensed to rain, and 
flooded the basis of the earth, leaving a clear atmosphere in which the Rainbow was seen for 
the first time at the opening of the New Age, the Aryan Epoch, where a new Covenant was 
made with the pioneers of the polity then ushered in. 

   Atlantis was the home of the Bull, Taurus, and when the Sun, by precession, was leaving 
that sign the last time, the Religion of the Lamb Aries was definitely ushered in. Thenceforth, 
the worship of the Bull was abrogated and when any of the pioneer race, brought out from the 
ancient Atlantean dispensation by the blood of the Lamb, Aries, backslid and worshiped the 
Taurean "Calf," they acted contrary to the law of progress and were therefore "Idolaters," and 
an abomination to the divine hierarchs whose task it was to guide them during the ages 
preceding the advent of Christ. On account of repeated transgressions many were "lost," and 
they are the Jews of today who still retain their Atlantean traits (see Cosmo- Conception). 

   Apart from the Astrological key, the Bible is truly a closed book, but with this key, the matter 
is different. In the Old Testament reference is made of two classes of animals: Bulls, which 
were Taurean, Sheep and Goats, which were Arian. These alone were used as Sacrifices. 
(Turtle doves were permitted as a concession to poverty). All the principal characters of the 
Old Dispensation were shepherds (Arian) and Christ also announces Himself as the Great 
Shepherd. 

   In the New Testament we find another animal, the Fish, attaining great prominence, and the 
apostles were called to be "Fishers of Men," for then the sun by precession was nearing the 
cusp of Pisces, the Fishes, and Christ spoke of the time when the Son of Man (Aquarius) shall 
come. Thus our evolutionary journey is mapped out in the hidden astrological allusions of the 
Bible. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   The student now has a line on the march of events, which it is well to keep in mind. 

   Jesus taught the multitudes in parables but explained the mysteries of the Kingdom to His 
disciples. Paul gave spiritual meat to the strong, but the milk of doctrine to the multitude, for 
there has always been an esoteric and an esoteric side to every religion. Taking Taurus, the 
sign of the Bull, to symbolize the worship of that animal as practiced in Egypt, Persia and other 
countries at that time, then we shall find that the opposite sign, Scorpio, symbolizes the 
esoteric doctrine if the priesthood, who were the guardians of the ancient Atlantean Mysteries. 

   In this connection we will note first that the sign Scorpio is represented in the pictorial Zodiac 
by a Scorpion or Serpent, and we wish to impress particularly on the student's mind that the 
Scorpion has its sting in the tail, while the Serpent has the venom in its teeth. This is very 
significant, as well shall see presently. 

   On looking up the word "serpent" in the Bible, we shall find that there are about seven words 
that have thus been translated; but one of them, which was borrowed from Egypt, is Naja. This 
word is found on the old tablets in the ancient temples of Egypt where Osiris, the Sun God, is 
hailed when arising from the primordial deep. He was then crowned with glory and has the 
Uraeus Naja, an emblem of cosmic wisdom. The Uraeus was a part of a serpent's body, with 
its head depicted as protruding from a point in the forehead just above the nose, where the 
human spirit has its seat; and Christ therefore referred to the ancient Serpent-Initiates, when 
He said: "Be ye wise as serpents." 

   In ancient Egypt the King wore a crown adorned by a double serpent, Uraeus or Naja, which 
seemed to protrude from his forehead when the crown was placed upon his head. This was to 
symbolize the fact that he held the double office of King and Priest by virtue of his sublime 
wisdom. In India, also, the guardians of the Mystery Teachings were called Nagas or Serpents. 
In the Icelandic "Eddas," the Northern Vedas, Siegfried, the truth seeker, slays the serpent, 
tastes of its blood and them becomes wise. Nor, to elaborate on the statement made above, is 
it necessary to go outside our own religion for proof that the serpent is the symbol of wisdom, 
for the Christ Himself said: "Be ye wise as serpents." The serpent is certainly not sufficiently 
sagacious to warrant a literal meaning of this saying; but when we understand that when the 
creative fire is drawn upwards through the serpentine spinal cord it vibrates the pituitary body 
and the pineal gland, connecting the Ego with the invisible worlds by opening up a hidden 
sense, the allusion is perfectly clear. 

   There is, however, a lower phase of spiritual development, symbolized in ancient times by 
placing the Uraeus or serpent at the naval, to show that the mediumistic faculties in the solar 
plexus had been developed. Mediumship is a negative phase of spiritual sight or hearing 
possessed by a person who, under the control of an outside intelligence, prophesies. This 
undesirable phase of seership was represented in the Zodiac by the symbol of the Scorpion, 
which has the sting in its tail. In the Serpent, Initiate the Creative Cosmic Fire was drawn 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



upward through the head to serve as a spiritual end; in the Medium the creative energy is 
expressed for selfish, sensual ends through the procreative organ ruled by Scorpio. 

   The point between the eyebrows, whence the serpent of wisdom protrudes, is the seat of life, 
whereas all that opens the womb is subject to the sting of death, contained in the Scorpion's 
tail. 

   If we now turn with this information to our Bible, we shall find that a great many things, 
previously obscure, will become clear. As said, the Egyptian word for this Uraeus or serpent is 
Naja and it was borrowed by the Israelites who expressed the negative faculty of mediumship 
by affixing the feminine ending "oth," giving Naioth; while those able to function consciously in 
the spiritual worlds were given the positive, make plural ending "im," and were called Naim. If 
we read the nineteenth chapter of first Samuel with this understanding we shall readily see that 
the incident there narrated was of a mediumistic nature. David had become afraid of Saul and 
he went with Samuel to "Naioth." This is supposed by Bible translators to be a place, and 
maybe a village was so named. But if that was the case, it was because the people who lived 
in that place were Naioth, or mediums. They were called prophets in the chapter before us, 
and it is significant that as soon as anyone came within their camp, he commenced to 
prophesy or speak under control. Even Saul, who came there, anxious to get David away that 
he might slay him, was seized by the spirits and prophesied, to the amazement of all present. 

   In the New Testament we are told that the Christ went to the city of Nain and there raised the 
Son of a Widow. In the Latin Testament, this city was not called Nain, but Naim. And it is very 
significant that all three, Naim, Naioth and Endor, where the sorceress that assisted Saul is 
supposed to have lived, are in the same locality by Mount Tabor. 

   Every Freemason knows that the brethren of that Order are called "Sons of the Widow." And 
it is stated in the Bible that Hiram Abiff, the Master Builder of Solomon's Temple, was the Son 
of a Widow, a cunning craftsman. We cannot in the present article repeat the Masonic Legend 
which tells the reason why. This we have given the book on "Freemasonry and Catholicism" 
and also in our books on the Rosicrucian Philosophy. But suffice it to say that in the Bible story 
to which reference has been made, we have one of the Naim, a Widow's Son or initiate of the 
old Serpent School, for the priests of Egypt were "phree messen," children of light. Each had 
within, the ancient Serpent Wisdom. But a new religion was being inaugurated, and it was 
necessary to raise the ancient Initiates to the Mysteries of the Coming Age. Therefore the 
Christ, the Lion of Judah, Lord of the New Kingdom, went to the Widow's Son of Nain and 
raised him up by the strong grip of the Lion's paw. And we may here emphasize that the first 
Initiate under the new system was Hiram Abiff, the highest Initiate of the old system, who by 
this new initiation given him by the Christ, became a Christian, pledged to bear the Rose and 
the Cross, which were the symbols of the New Mystery Teachings of the Western World and 
he was then given the symbolical name, Christian Rosenkreuz. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   Thus from the time when the Sun entered the sign Aries by precession, it became a crime for 
the chosen people to worship the bull exoterically, or to partake of the esoteric Serpent 
wisdom. And for a similar reason it is idolatry when people of the West take up the Eastern 
religions, Hinduism, Buddhism and kindred teachings. For in the Aryan Epoch, only the Aryan 
Religions, the religions of the Lamb, have the proper effect on the human evolution. All 
previous systems are detrimental to the Western people; and in time those also who are now 
in the East, the Orientals, will be forced to embrace this religion, or be left far behind in 
evolution.

THE ARYAN EPOCH 
 

ARIES-LIBRA 

   The Aryan Epoch may be divided into three eras; but they are all served by the religion of the 
Lamb. The first division covers the time when the Sun, by precession, went through the sign 
Aries, the Lamb. Jesus was born when the Vernal equinox was in about seven degrees of 
Aries; so the twenty-three degrees which lie on the other side belong to the Old Testament 
period, when the chosen people were in captivity and lost in the wilderness of the world; the 
new religion had not then found its place. Then the Christ came and inaugurated this new 
teaching definitely. He came not to destroy the old prophecies and the law, but to give us 
something higher when they shall have been fulfilled. The sign opposite Aries is Libra, the 
scales or balance of Justice; and therefore we are told in the new religion that there will come 
a day of judgment, when Christ shall appear to give to every man according to the deeds done 
in the body.

PISCES-VIRGO

   Christ was the Great Shepherd, but He called His disciples to be "fishers of men," for the Sun 
by precession was then leaving the sign of the Lamb and entering Pisces, the sign of the 
fishes. Therefore a new phase of the Aryan religions was opening up. The Bishop's miter is 
also in the form of a fish's head. 

   The New Testament, therefore, does not mention the Bull or the Lamb, but references to the 
fishes are numerous. We also found the celestial virgin prominent and the wheat ear of Virgo is 
the Bread of Life, to be gained only through immaculate purity. Thus Christ fed the multitude of 
fish (Pisces) and loaves (Virgo). 

   Before the time of Christ, the new religion of the Lamb (Aries), could get no foothold. Moses, 
the erstwhile leader, could not bring the chosen people to the "promised land." That was 
reserved for Joshua, the son of Nun. Joshua is the Hebraic for "Jesus" and the Hebrew word 
for "Nun" means "fish" (Pisces). It was thus foretold that the religion of the Lamb would attain 
prominence during the precessional passage of the Sun through the sign Pisces, the fishes. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   This prophecy has been fulfilled, for during the two thousand years which have elapsed since 
the birth of Jesus, the Western religion has been taught by a celibate priesthood, worshiping 
an immaculate virgin, symbolized by the celestial sign Virgo, which is the opposite of Pisces. 
This same priesthood has also enjoined the eating of fish and forbidden the use of flesh on 
certain days. When the children of Israel left the flesh pots of Egypt, where the Bull was slain, 
they left it by the blood of the Lamb. But in the Piscean dispensation no shedding of blood is 
enjoined and flesh eating is condemned as a sin at certain times, for man is now taught to 
forsake the lusts of the flesh and also lusting after the flesh. 

   This ideal was tried under the Aryan dispensation, when the chosen people were yet in the 
Wilderness, so called, but without success; they would not have the heavenly manna. Now, 
however, man is being weaned from the cannibalistic practice, and in the seven hundred years 
which remain before the Aquarian age is definitely ushered in, we will, in all probability, have 
made great strides, both in overcoming the lust of the flesh and the lust after the flesh. For 
Virgo, the immaculate celestial virgin, and the ears of wheat contained in the sign, show both 
these ideals as profitable to soul growth at the present time. Jupiter, the planet of benevolence 
and philanthropy, which rules Pisces, has been a prominent factor in promoting altruism during 
the past two millenniums.

AQUARIUS-LEO

   It is often said, and rightly so, that the boy is father of the man. And on the same principle we 
may say that the Son of Man is the Super-Man; therefore, when the Sun by precession enters 
the celestial sign Aquarius, the water-bearer we shall have a new phase of the religion of the 
Lamb, exoterically; and the ideal to be striven for is shown in the opposite sign, Leo. 

   The Moon, which is the habitat of the autocratic Race Ruler and Lawgiver, Jehovah, is 
exalted in Taurus, the sign of the Bull, and all Race religions, even the Mosaic phase of the 
Aryan religion of the Lamb, demanded a sacrificial victim for every transgression of that law. 
But the Sun is exalted in Aries, and when the great Sun spirit, Christ, came as High Priest of 
the Aryan religion, He abrogated sacrifice of others by offering up Himself as a perpetual 
sacrifice for sin. 

   By looking to the mother ideal of Virgo during the Piscean Age, and following the Christ's 
example of sacrificial service, the immaculate conception becomes an actual experience to 
each of us, and Christ, the Son of Man, Aquarius, is born within us. Thus, gradually, the third 
phase of the Aryan religion will be ushered in and a new ideal will be found in the Lion of 
Judah, Leo. Courage of conviction, strength of character and kindred virtues will then make 
man truly the King of Creation, worthy of the trust and the confidence of the lower orders of life 
as well as the love of the Divine Hierarchs above. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   This, the mystic message of Man's evolution, is marked in flaming characters upon the field 
of Heave, where he who runs may read. And when we study the revealed purpose of God, we 
shall in turn learn to conform intelligently to that design, thereby hastening the day of 
emancipation from our present cramped environment to the perfect liberty of free Spirits, risen 
superior to the law of Sin and Death, through Christ, the Lord of Love and Life. 

   It is for us to decipher this message, and solve the Riddle of the Universe. 

CHAPTER II 

THE MEASURE OF AMENABILITY TO PLANETARY VIBRATIONS 

   When judging a horoscope it is of prime importance that we take into consideration the 
social and racial standing of the individual, for configurations which are of great significance in 
the horoscope of an educated Caucasian, may mean little or nothing in the figure of a Chinese 
coolie and vice versa. Neglect of this factor would inevitably lead to false conclusions, as we 
shall now explain. 

   It is a mystic maxim that the lower in the scale of evolution a being is placed the more 
certainly it responds to the planetary rays, and conversely the higher we ascend in the scale of 
attainment the more the man conquers and rules his stars, freeing himself from the leading 
strings of the Divine Hierarchies through the planetary aspects in such a manner that we do 
not hurt ourselves beyond recovery in the experiences of life. 

   But coupled with this guidance there is of course the measure of Free Will, which grows as 
we evolve. The child in our midst has really very little free will, being the subject not only to its 
parents but to the servants, if such there be in the household, and to everybody with whom it is 
associated, all exercising control over it for its own good. As the child grows, this measure of 
restraint is by degrees relaxed, and in the course of years the child will learn to exercise its 
free will. This method has been followed by the Divine Hierarchies in the case of man. Infant 
humanity was absolutely guided by Divine rules without having any Will at all; "Thus shalt thou 
do, or not do," were injunctions laid upon them which must be implicitly obeyed, otherwise the 
Divine displeasure was at once shown by such strenuous manifestations as appealed to infant 
humanity's mind, namely, lightning, thunder, earth-quakes and great visitations of plagues. 
This was for their collective guidance, for individual restraint there were strict laws, 
commandments and ordinances. Tribute must be paid continually to the Divine Leader and 
offered up on the altar as sacrifices, and for every offense against the law a certain sacrifice of 
material goods must be made. Fear was the dominant keynote of that dispensation: for "The 
fear of the Lord is the beginning of righteousness." This regime was carried on under the 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



planetary conditions of Mars and the Moon. Mars, being the home of the dominant Lucifer 
Spirits, gave to mankind the energy necessary that evolution may be accomplished; this 
martial energy was of the very greatest importance, particularly of course in the earlier stages. 
The Moon, which is the home of the Angels, under their Divine Leader Jehovah, gave to infant 
humanity that child-like brain-mind which is amenable to rulership, and bends itself readily 
before authority. 

   These with Saturn were the only planetary rays which affected mankind as a whole during 
the Lemurian Epoch, and if a horoscope were erected for any of the people who lived then, it 
would be unnecessary to enter the places of the other planets, because they could not 
respond to their rays. Even today a great part of mankind has not evolved very far beyond that 
point, a large class, particularly among those we speak of as the lower races, and even the 
lower classes of our western world being dominated principally by these planetary rays. Under 
their impulses they act with automatic certainty in a specific manner, and it is possible to 
predict exactly what they will do under a certain aspect of these planets, because they live 
entirely in their emotions and are scarcely, if at all, responsive to the intellectual vibrations of 
Mercury. Neither can they appreciate such emotions as signified by Venus or its octave, 
Uranus,; they respond solely to the lower nature, the animal passions. They move under the 
impulses of Mars and the Moon respecting sex and sustenance. Their pleasures are of the 
lowest and most sensual nature, they live like animals altogether in the physical, and their 
creed is "eat, drink and be merry." Their desires run chiefly to "wine and women," for they have 
not as yet awakened to the charm of song; Neither has beauty had a chance to enchant the 
savage heart at this stage of development for that comes from the Venus rays which are 
beyond such people. Woman is to the man of that stage only a beast of burden and a 
convenience. 

   Meanwhile "Father Time" represented by the planet Saturn, keeps the score, and wields over 
them the whiplash of necessity to drive them forward on this evolutionary path, meting out to 
each the fruits of his labor at the harvest time between lives. When the man has cultivated the 
savage virtues of bravery, physical endurance, etc., he dreams in the post-mortem existence 
of new field to conquer, and sees where he was lacking and why his desires were frustrated 
because of lack of implements. Gradually the constructive martial ray and the Saturn cunning 
fertilize the lunar brain which he is building, so that in time he learns to make the crude 
implements necessary for the attainment of his primitive ambitions. Even today we see the 
same cunning traits of character, the same crude crafts displayed in and by the lower races for 
the purpose of irrigating land, mining ores or milling grain. All those earliest implements were 
the result of the planetary rays of Saturn, Moon and Mars, impinging on the primitive brain of 
infant humanity. 

   A little further along the path of evolution, in the Atlantean epoch, the Lords of Venus and the 
Lords of Mercury came to the earth for the purpose of giving a further impulse to the mental 
and emotional development. It was the task of Venus to combat the lower emotions and raise 
the brutish animal passion of Mars to the softer and more beautiful Venus-love. She was to 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



add beauty to strength, and to attain that ideal the Lords of Venus fostered the plastic arts, 
painting and sculpture. These were not taught men of the general public at that time; the ideals 
which are to be developed in a race are always first taught to the most advanced ones in a 
mystery temple, and at that time initiation included no spiritual instruction, but consisted of an 
education in the liberal arts. Sculpture taught how the beautiful may be incorporated in physical 
form. It called attention to the body and idealized the softly curved lines. The result is now 
incorporated in our own race body, for it should be thoroughly understood that in an mystery 
school an ideal is not taught today simply to be forgotten tomorrow or in the next generation, 
but ideals are inculcated so that in time they may become a part of the very life, soul and body 
of the race. Compare the race body of the modern civilized man with that of the Indian, the 
Bushman, the Hottentot, etc., and you will find that there is indeed beauty added to strength. 

   It may be objected that we are degenerating compared with what is shown in the Hellenic 
Arts, but that is positively not so; it is rather that we have not yet attained to that highest ideal. 
In ancient Greece the mystery temples occupied a much more prominent position than today; 
the beautiful form was idolized to the detriment of the mind notwithstanding the fact that 
Greece had a Plato and a Socrates. The Lords of Mercury who had charge of the development 
of mind, at the time when the Lords of Venus exercised their great influence on the emotions, 
had not then been able to make a universally strong impression on the early humanity. We are 
well aware even today that it hurts to think, but it is easy to follow the emotions. At the present 
time the middle class of the West is much further advanced than the ancient Greeks because 
of the influence of these two planetary rays in our lives. Woman naturally excels in the highly 
imaginative Venus faculty, because of her part in the creative function which aids in molding 
the body of the race. On that account her figure has the graceful curves which naturally 
express beauty, while man has the worldly-wise intellect fostered by the Lords of Mercury, and 
is the exponent of reason, the creative agency of physical progress in the world's work. 

   We always long for, admire, and aspire to what we lack. In days of savagery when kicks and 
cuffs were her daily fare woman longed for a caress from her lord. The Venus ray gave her 
beauty and made her an adept in the feminine arts which have conquered the masculine heart, 
so that now man plays the role of protector on the plea that woman is not mentally competent 
meanwhile he is becoming that which he admires in her; he is more gentle and kind, Venus is 
conquering Mars, but the Mercury delusion of intellectual superiority needs another influence 
to conquer it. And this, woman is now supplying by her aspiration. As she mastered martial 
brutality by Venus beauty, so also, will she free herself from Mercurial bondage by Uranian 
intuition. 

   To primitive man, driven by the whip-lash of Saturnine necessity, when not by the animal lust 
and passions of Mars and the Moon, the world looks gloomy. Fear is the key-note of his 
existence: fear of animals; fear of other men; fear of the nature forces; fear of everything 
around him. He must ever be watchful and on the alert, vigilance is eternally the price of 
safety. But when evolution makes him amenable to the influences of Venus and Mercury; they 
will soften his emotions and brighten the mentality; he begins to regard love and reason as 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



factors in life. The Sun also begins to brighten his outlook upon life, and sunshine in the nature 
of man during this phase of his evolution partly dispels the gloom of Saturn. Thus, by degrees, 
as man evolves and becomes responsive to the music of the spheres, one string after another 
in the celestial harp strikes the kindred chord in the human soul and makes him amenable to 
its vibrations, so that as a tuning fork which is struck, awakens the music in other tuning forks 
of even pitch within reasonable distance, so the planets in our solar system have in 
evolutionary succession struck various chords that have found an echo in the human heart. 

   But the strings on the celestial Lyre of Apollo are not all in harmony, some are in actual 
discord, and while man responds to some he must necessarily remain, at least partially, 
unresponsive to others. In fact, before it is possible to respond perfectly to the rays of Venus it 
is necessary for man to conquer Mars to a considerable degree, and bring him under control 
so that certain undesirable martial traits in his nature will be kept in the background, while 
others, which may be valuable, are retained. The Venus love which is willing to give all for the 
loved ones cannot dwell side by side in the heart with the Mars ray which demands all for self. 
Therefore the savage must learn to conquer himself in a certain measure ere he may become 
the more civilized family man of modern times. Under the unrestrained passionate rays of Mars 
and the Moon, parents bring children into the world and leave them to take care of themselves 
almost as animals do, for they are products of animal passion. The females are brought and 
sold as a horse or cow or else taken by force and carried away. Even so late as the mediaeval 
dark ages, the knight often carried away his bride by force of arms, practically in the same 
manner that the male animals battle for the possession of the female at mating time. 

   Thus we see that the first step toward civilization requires that a man conquer one or more of 
the planets to a certain degree at least. Unbridled passion such as generated by the primitive 
Mars rays is no more permissible under the regime of modern civilization, neither is the tenet 
that "might is right" any longer admissible, save in wars when we return to barbarism. The 
Mars quality of physical prowess, that at one time made it a virtue to attack others and take 
away property, is no longer admired in the individual. It is punished by various means, 
according to law, thought it is still effective as far as nations are concerned, who go to war 
under this primitive impulse for purposes of territorial aggrandizement. However, as said, Mars 
has been conquered to a great degree in civil and social life in order that the Venus love might 
take the place of the Mars passion. 

   As previously noted, the children of primitive man were left to their own resources, as soon 
as they had been taught to defend themselves in physical warfare. With the advent of Mercury 
another method is observable. The battle of life nowadays, is no longer fought with physical 
weapons alone. Brain, rather than brawn determines success. Therefore the period of 
education has been lengthened as mankind advanced, and it aims principally at mental 
accomplishments because of the Mercurial rays which accompany the Venus development of 
modern civilization. Thus man sees nature from a more sunny side when he has learned to 
respond to the Sun, Venus, Mercury, Mars, Moon and Saturn, even if only in a very slight 
measure. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   But although these various stages of evolution have gradually brought man under the 
dominance of a number of planetary rays, the development has been one-sided, for it has 
aimed to foster interest solely in things over which he has a proprietary right: his business, his 
house, his family, his cattle, farm, etc., are all vitally important, and must be taken care of. His 
possessions must be increased, if possible, no matter what happens to the possessions, 
family, etc., belonging to anyone else, that not being his concern. But before he can reach to a 
higher stage of evolution it is necessary that this desire to appropriate the earth, and retain it 
for himself if possible, must give way to a desire to benefit his fellowmen. In other words, 
Egoism must give way to Altruism, and just as Saturn by yielding the whip lash of necessity 
over him in his primitive days brought him up to his present point of civilization, so also Jupiter, 
the planet of altruism, is destined to raise him from the state of man to superman where he will 
come under the Uranian ray in respect to his emotional nature, where passion generated by 
Mars will be replaced by Compassion, and where the childlike consciousness of Lunar origin 
will be replaced by a Cosmic consciousness of the Neptunian ray. Therefore the advent into 
our lives of the Jupiterian ray marks a very distinct advance in the human development. As 
taught in the Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception, we are to advance from our present Earth period 
into the Jupiter period, and therefore the Jupiterian ray marks that high stage of altruism which 
will then be a prominent factor in our relations, one with the other, and it will be readily 
understood that before we can really respond to the rays of Jupiter we must in a measure 
cultivate altruism, and conquer the egoism that comes through the Mercurial reasoning power. 
We have learned to conquer some of the phases of Mars and the Moon, we may have also 
learned to conquer some of the lower phases of Mercury and Venus; the more we have 
overcome these the better we shall be able to respond to the highest vibratory forces 
emanating from these planets; yes, if we strive earnestly we shall some day be able to 
overcome even the highest stage of the Venus love, that always attaches itself to an object 
which is owned by us. We love our children because they are ours; we love our husbands and 
wives because they belong to us; we take pride, Venusian pride, in their moral characteristics 
or Mercurial pride in their accomplishments; but Christ set a higher standard: "Unless a man 
leave his father and mother he can not be my disciple." The idea that we should neglect our 
fathers and mothers or that we must hate them in order to follow Him was far from His mind, of 
course, but father and mother are only bodies; the soul that inhabits this body of the father and 
mother is to be loved, not the mere physical garment. Our love should be the same whether 
the person is old or young, ugly or beautiful. We should look for the beauty of the soul, for the 
universal relationship of all souls and not mind so much the relationship of the bodies. "Who 
are my mother and my brothers," said the Christ, and pointed to his disciples, those who were 
at one with Him in His great work. They were closer to Him than any brother could be on 
account of mere physical relationship. This attitude constitutes an upward step from the Venus 
love which places the emphasis on the physical garments of the love ones and leaves out of 
consideration the soul that is within. The Jupiterian love on the other hand takes cognizance 
only of the soul, regardless of the body it wears. The Mercurial or reasoning phase of mentality 
is also changed by response to the altruistic Jupiter. Cold calculation is out of the question. 
One who feels the expansive ray of Jupiter is big hearted where his emotions are concerned, 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



his love; big hearted where all things of the world are concerned. "A jovial fellow," is an apt 
expression. He is welcomed and love by everyone he meets because he radiates not the 
common selfishness, but a desire to benefit others that breeds in us a feeling of trust, 
diametrically opposed to the sense of distrust we instinctively feel when we come in contact 
with a Saturn-Mercury man. 

   It is a matter of actual experience to astrologers endowed with spiritual sight that every man's 
planetary rays produce certain colors in his aura, in his aura, in addition to the basic color 
which is the stamp of the race to which the man belongs. The man with the thin, sickly blues of 
a commingled Saturn and Mercury, is to be pitied rather than censured for the avarice and 
gloom which are his constant attitude of mind; he sees everything in the world through the 
auric mirror which he has created around himself; he feels that the world is cold, hard and 
selfish, that therefore it is necessary for him to be more selfish and more cold in order that he 
may protect himself. On the other hand, when we see the divine blue ray of Jupiter tinted with 
perhaps the fine gold of the Uranian nature we realize how differently such an exalted 
individual must view the world from the other's sordid way of seeing things. Even those who 
have the faintest Jupiterian tinge are in a world filled with sunshine, flowers blooming, 
everything in nature gay and glad. Any by looking at the world through such an atmosphere 
they call forth from other sources a similar response, as the tuning fork previously mentioned 
generates a vibration in another of an even pitch. 

   After what has been said it will not be difficult to understand that the Uranian characteristics, 
where love becomes compassion, give wisdom that is not dependent upon reasoning, a love 
that is not fixed upon one object alone, but includes all that lives and moves and has its being' 
being similar to the characteristics that are to be evolved by humanity during the Venus period 
when perfect love shall have cast out all fear, when man shall have conquered all the lower 
phases of his nature and love shall be as pure as it is universally inclusive. 

   When these Uranian vibrations are felt by advance in the higher life through aspiration, there 
is great danger that we may throw away the fetters of law and convention before we are really 
ready to govern ourselves by the law of Love divine, that we may disregard the laws that are in 
the world, that we may not render unto Caesar that which is Caesar's, whether in obedience or 
coin, that we may not be careful of avoiding the appearance of evil, that we may think that we 
have so far transcended the ordinary stage of humanity that we can live as super-humans, that 
the passion of Mars has in our cases been changed to Uranian compassion, which is sexless. 
Under such misapprehensions, many people who endeavor to tread the path disregard the 
laws of marriage and enter into relationships as soulmates and affinities. They feel the Uranian 
ray, but cannot quite respond to its sublime purity, therefore they experience a counterfeit 
Venusian sensation which usually ends in adultery and sex-perversion, so that instead of the 
natural animal passion of Mars having been transmuted to the compassion of Uranus it has as 
a matter of fact, degenerated into something that is far worse than the fullest sex expression of 
the martial rays committed in a frank and proper manner. This is a danger that cannot be too 
strictly guarded against and it behooves every one who endeavors to live the higher life not to 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



try to aspire to the Uranian rays until he at first becomes thoroughly imbued with the altruistic 
vibrations of Jupiter, for more misery is brought into the world by those who have aspired too 
high and fallen low, then by those who are not sufficiently aspiring. "Pride goeth before a fall," 
is an ancient and very true proverb, which it behooves every one of us to take to heart. The 
Christ took part in the marriage at Cana. Marriage is a regular Christian institution, and must 
exist until abolished in the kingdom to come; there the bodies we have will not wear out and 
therefore there will be no need of marriage to generate new ones. 

   Let it also be understood that the minister who marries cannot truly mate people, therefore 
the presence of the basic harmony for true marriage should be determined before the marriage 
ceremony. 

   As we have seen in the foregoing, Mars, Venus and Uranus mark three stages in the 
emotional development of man. During the stage where he is only amenable to Mars, animal 
passion reigns supreme and he seeks unrestricted gratification of all his lower desires in the 
intercourse with his fellowman but particularly with the opposite sex; during the stage where he 
becomes amenable to the rays of Venus, love softens the brutality of his desires and the 
animal passions are somewhat held in leash, he is even, under the higher phases of this 
planet, ready to sacrifice himself and his desires for the benefit and comfort of the loved ones. 
When he has evolved to the point where we can feel the rays of Uranus, the passion of Mars 
gradually turns to compassion; there the love of Venus which is only for one particular person, 
becomes all inclusive so that it embraces all humankind regardless of sex or any other 
distinction, for it is the divine love of soul for soul which is above all material considerations of 
whatever nature. 

   The mentality also evolves through three stages according to the amenability of the person 
to the vibrations of the Moon, Mercury and Neptune. While man is only amenable to the lunar 
influence, he is childlike and easily guided by the higher powers, which have led him through 
the various stages mentioned in our pervious chapters. Under the stellar ray of Mercury he 
gradually develops his intellectual powers and becomes a reasoning being. As such, he is 
placed under the law of cause and effect, made responsible for his own actions, so that he 
may reap what he has sown and learn thereby the lessons that human life has to teach him 
under the present regime. Being inexperienced, he makes mistakes in whatever direction 
indicated by the afflictions to Mercury in his horoscope and consequently he suffers a 
corresponding penalty of sorrow and trouble. It he has not the mentality to reason on the 
connection between this mistakes and the sad experiences growing from them, during his life 
times, the panorama of life, which unfolds in the post-mortem state, makes this clear, and 
leaves with him an essence of "right feeling" which we know as "conscience." 

   This conscience keeps him from repeating past mistakes, when the feeling generated has 
become sufficiently strong to overbalance the tendency to yield to the particular temptation 
which caused him suffering. Thus he gradually develops a spiritual consciousness which is 
above and beyond human reason, but which nevertheless is also connected with reason in 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



such a manner that when the result has been reached, the man who has this Cosmic 
Consciousness knows the reason why such and such a thing is and must be, or why he ought 
to take a certain action. This Cosmic Consciousness is developed under the ray of Neptune 
and differs from that intuitional right feeling developed under the ray of Uranus in the very 
important fact that while the person who has developed the Uranian quality of intuition arrives 
at the truth instantaneously without the necessity of thinking over the matter or reasoning, he is 
unable to give anything but the result; he cannot connect the various steps of logical sequence 
whereby the final result was reached. The man or woman, however, who develops the 
Neptunian faculty, also has the answer of any question immediately and is able to tell the 
reason why that answer is the proper and right one. 

   The faculty of intuition built up from the Martial base of passion, through the Venusian stage 
of love, and the Uranian rays of compassion, depends upon the ability of the person involved 
to feel very intensely. By love and devotion, the heart is attuned to every other heart in the 
universe and in this way it knows and feels all that may be known and felt by any other heart in 
the universe, thus sharing the divine omniscience that binds Our Father in Heaven to His 
children and through the direct heart to heart touch with that omniscience the person obtains 
the answers to whatever problem is placed before him. 

   The noblest men of all ages, Christian saints of the most transcendent spirituality, have 
attained their wonderful development through the spiritual rays of this planet because of the 
intense feeling of Oneness with the divine and with all that lives and breathes in the universe. 

   But there are others who are not thus constituted and they are not able to walk that path. 
These, through the Moon, Mercury and Neptune have developed their intellect and attained 
the same results plus the Neptunian power of idealization. 

   This is very important point and it is only brought out in the Western Wisdom Teachings tell 
us that there is in addition a third factor in universal advancement, namely, Epigenesis; the 
faculty whereby the spirit may choose a course that is altogether new and independent of what 
has gone before. We see the expression of this in all kingdoms relative to form, but in the 
human kingdom, epigenesis expresses itself as genius, a creative instinct, which makes man 
more akin to the divine than any other of his accomplishments. This is developed under the 
Neptune ray when that planet is well placed in the horoscope. There is of course also such a 
thing as an evil genius, a destructive faculty developed under an afflicted Neptune. 

   Only the most sensitive people in the world feel the rays of Uranus and Neptune at the 
present time. To feel these vibrations the connection between the dense physical body and the 
vital body, which is made of ether must be rather loose for where these two vehicles are firmly 
interlocked the person is always of a materialistic turn, and cannot respond to the higher and 
more subtle vibrations from the spiritual world. But when the stellar rays from these two planets 
impinge upon a person whose vital body is loosely connected with the physical, we have what 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



is called a sensitive. The direction and quality of this faculty depends upon the placement and 
the aspects of the two planets mentioned, however. Those who are particularly under the 
domination of an adverse aspect of the Uranian ray, usually develop the more undesirable 
phases of clairvoyance and mediumship. They easily become the prey of entities from the 
invisible world who have no regard for their victims' desire, even if in a weak manner these 
should protest. Such mediums are generally used in simple trance communications and in a 
few cases known to the writer have lived very beautiful and happy lives because of implicit 
belief in the spirits that dominated them. In these cases the spirit-controls were of a better 
class than usually met with. But as this Uranian faculty is built up through Mars and Venus, 
passion is prominent in such natures and under the influence of obsessing spirits many of 
these people are driven into gross immorality. Vampirism and kindred disreputable practices 
are also engendered by the perverse use of the Uranian ray in mediums. 

   Neptune may be said to represent the invisible worlds in more positive aspects and those 
who come under the evil rays of this planet are therefore brought in touch with the most 
undesirable occupants of the invisible worlds. Actual obsession whereby the owner of a body 
is deprived of his vehicle takes place under the ray of Neptune and no materializing seance 
could ever be held if it were not for this stellar vibration. Magic, white or black can never be put 
to practical use save under and because of this Neptunian vibration. Apart from this ray it will 
remain theory, speculation and book learning. Therefore the Initiates of every Mystery School, 
Spiritual; Seers who have full control of their faculty, and Astrologers are amenable in varying 
degrees to the ray of Neptune. The Black Magician and the Hypnotist, who is a twin brother to 
him, are also dependent upon the power of this stellar ray for use in their nefarious practices. 

   The highest human development at the present time, namely, the soul unfoldment which is 
undertaken in the mystery temples through initiation, is directly the result of the Neptune ray, 
for just as evil configurations lay men liable to assault by invisible entities, so the good 
configurations of Neptune are particularly required to enable a man to unfold by initiation his 
whole soul powers and become a conscience agent in the invisible worlds. Let us remember, 
however, that good or evil configurations are not the result of chance or luck, but are the 
product of our own past acts; the horoscope shows what we have earned by our past living 
and therefore what we are entitled to in the present life. 

   Moreover it should always be kept in mind that the stars impel but do not compel; because a 
man or woman has an evil configuration of Neptune or Uranus it is not unavoidable that they 
should go into active evil Mediumship and Black Magic and thereby makes life harder for 
themselves in the future. Their opportunity to do so and the temptation will come at certain 
times when the heavenly time markers point to the right hour on the clock of destiny. Then it is 
time to stand form for the good and for the right; being forewarned through a knowledge of 
Astrology one is also forearmed and may the easier overcome when such an aspect 
culminates. 

   Thus we have seen that man is amenable to the planetary rays in an increasing measure as 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



he advances through evolution, but the more highly he becomes developed spiritually the less 
he will allow the planets to dominate him, while the younger soul is driven unresistingly along 
the tide of life in whatever direction of the planetary vibrations impel him. It is the mark of the 
advanced soul that he keeps the true course regardless of the planetary vibrations. Between 
these two extremes there are naturally all graduations, some amenable to the rays of one 
planet, some to another. The bark of life of men and women is often driven upon the rocks of 
sorrow and suffering, that they may learn to evolve within themselves the will power that finally 
frees them from all domination by the ruling stars. As Goethe, the great mystic, said, 

"From every power that holds the world in chains, 
Man frees himself when self-control he gains." 

   And it may be asked, have we run the gamut of vibrations when we have learned to respond 
to all the seven planets which are mythically represented as the seven strings on Apollo's 
Lyre? In other words is Neptune the highest vibration to which we shall yet respond? The 
Western Wisdom Teachings tell us that there are two more planets in the universe which will 
be known in future ages and that these will have an influence in developing qualities of so 
transcendent a nature that we cannot now understand them. The number of Adam, man or 
humanity, is nine, and there are nine rungs upon the stellar ladder by which he is ascending to 
God; up to the present time he has climbed only five of these rungs; Mercury, Venus, Mars, 
Jupiter and Saturn, and not even the vibration of these has he by any means learned; Uranus 
and Neptune are slowly coming into our lives; they will not become active in the same manner 
and to the same degree that for instance, the Moon and Mars are at the present time until 
many ages have passed. But even when we have learned to respond to them there are two 
more which we shall know something later on; it is the opinion of the writers that these are 
probably not felt by any except those who have graduated from the Greater Mystery School 
and by the Hierophants of that sublime institution. 

   In conclusion to this article on the Amenability of Man to Planetary Vibrations we quote from 
the Rosicrucian Mysteries the article on Light, Color and Consciousness. 

   "Truly, God is One and Undivided. He enfolds within His Being all that is, as the white light 
embraces all colors. But He appears three-fold in manifestation, as the white light is refracted 
in three primary colors, Blue, Yellow and Red. Wherever we see these colors they are 
emblematical of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit. These three primary rays of Divine Life are 
diffused or radiated through the Sun and produce Life, Consciousness and Form upon each of 
the seven light bearers, the planets, which are called the 'Seven Spirits before the Throne.' 
Their names are, Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus. Bode's law proves 
that Neptune does not yet belong to our solar system and the reader is referred to 'Simplified, 
Scientific Astrology' by the present writer, for mathematical demonstration of this condition. 

   "Each of the seven planets receives the light of the Sun in a different measure, according to 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



its proximity to the central orb and the constitution of its atmosphere, and the beings on each, 
according to their stage of development have affinity for some of the solar rays. The planets 
absorb the color or colors congruous to them, and reflect the rest upon the other planets. This 
reflected ray bears with it an impulse of the nature of the beings with which it has been in 
contact. 

   "Thus the divine Light and Life comes to each planet, either directly from the Sun, or 
reflected from its six sister planets. and as the summer breeze which has been wafted over 
blooming fields carries upon its silent, invisible wings the blended fragrance of a multitude of 
flowers, so also the subtle influences from The Garden of God bring to us the commingled 
impulses of all the Planetary Spirits and in that vari-colored light we live and move and have 
our being. 

   "The rays which come directly from the Sun are productive of spiritual illumination; the 
reflected rays from other planets make for added consciousness and moral development and 
the rays reflected by way of the Moon give physical growth. 

   "But as each planet can only absorb a certain quantity of one or more colors according to the 
general stage of evolution there, so each being upon earth, mineral, plant, animal and man can 
only absorb and thrive upon a certain quantity of the various rays projected upon the earth. 
The remainder do not affect it or produce sensation any more than the blind are conscience of 
the light and color which exist everywhere around them. Therefore each being is differently 
affected by the stellar rays, and the science of Astrology, a fundamental truth in nature is of 
enormous benefit in the attainment of spiritual growth." 

   

 

●     Click here to continue.... 
●     Table of Contents 
●     Index to Natal Astrology 
●     Index to Medical Astrology 
●     Click here to return to The Rosicrucian Fellowship Home Page. 
●     Rosicrucian Fellowship Astrology Study Courses information 
●     Order the printed version of this book. 

  

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



Rosicrucian Fellowship - International Headquarters 
2222 Mission Avenue, Oceanside, CA 92054-2399, USA 

PO Box 713, Oceanside, CA 92049-0713, USA 
(760) 757 - 6600 

(760) 721 - 3806 (fax) 
E-mail: rosfshp@rosicrucian.com

 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



 

 

The Message of the Stars
by

Max Heindel 
and 

Augusta Foss Heindel

Click here to go back to previous HTML page. 

CHAPTER III 

WERE YOU BORN UNDER A LUCKY STAR?

   Have you ever looked through a kaleidoscope at the patterns formed there by the many 
little pieces of varicolored glass, and noticed how the slightest disturbance of the position 
changes the pattern? Also, do you realize that it would be impossible, or almost so, to 
duplicate any pattern, no matter how much you were to turn; there is such a variety of effect. 
Similarly when you look into the heavens night after night you will notice changes among the 
planets, in fact such is the variety of changes that occur among them that it would be 
impossible to duplicate the position which they hold relatively to one another while you are 
reading this, for almost twenty-six thousand years. Thus in the planetary kaleidoscope there is, 
we might say, an infinity of patterns. When we realize that human beings are entering the 
world constantly and that each being is stamped at the first complete breath with the planetary 
pattern then in the sky, everyone must necessarily be different from everyone else. Nor should 
this statement about stellar influence create doubt when we consider that wireless saves of 
different lengths and different pitch sent out from a tiny man-made contrivance can make 
themselves felt and can register by mechanical operations involving expenditure of energy 
thousands of miles from their source. The planetary vibrations from those great orbs in the 
heavens make themselves felt millions of miles away as surely, as easily, and with equal 
uncertainty. We know that the angle of the solar ray determines whether it is winter or summer. 
We also know the effect of the Moon upon the waters, and it is within the experience of all that 
we feel more buoyant when the atmosphere is clear and dry than when it is moist and murky. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



And what determines these atmospheric conditions but the planets, the circling stars? 

   When we look up at this planetary kaleidoscope from time to time we see in the heavens 
various configurations which are pronounced lucky or unlucky according to whether they are 
formed between so-called benefices alone, such as Venus, Jupiter and the Sun, or planets 
said to be malefic such as Saturn, Mars or Uranus. When Jupiter and Venus are in close 
conjunction near the mid-heaven, it is a foregone conclusion that those who come into the 
world under this configuration will enjoy a measure of good fortune far above the average, and 
such persons would therefore me considered "lucky" in the extreme. On the other hand there 
are times when Saturn and Mars occupy the zenith position for souls that are born to suffer. 

   But why should one suffer and another be born under a lucky star? Why do the stars give 
good fortune to one and misfortune to others, and if we are born to "luck": whether good or 
bad, what is the use or where is the incentive to individual effort? If there is a law of nature 
which is established beyond doubt it is surely the law of Cause and Effect. Every cause must 
produce an adequate effect and nothing which we see as an effect can be without a pre-
existence cause. Moreover, if this is a universal law it must apply to the conditions of birth as 
well as to subsequent life. Following up this idea the next question is: If our birth under a lucky 
or unlucky star. Thus by induction of belief in Astrology requires also a belief in a previous 
existence as well as in future lives, for while we are now reaping in our horoscopes the effects 
of our past lives we are also by out acts laying the foundations for a new horoscope which can 
only be worked out in a future life. 

"How closely luck is linked to merit 
Does never to the fool occur; 
Had he the wise man's stone, I swear it, 
The stone had no philosopher," 

   said Mephisto sarcastically in "Faust" and it is true. If we are born under a lucky star it shows 
that we have earned good fortune thereby indicated, by forethought, kindness, and our other 
virtues expressed in previous lives, for we cannot have friends unless we are friendly 
ourselves. If we happen to have Saturn and Mars instead of Venus and Jupiter near zenith, it 
shows that in the past we ourselves have not been kindly and friendly or we could not now 
express the opposite traits. But this is just the point where the study of Astrology should help 
us. It shows our limitations for the present and it points out the obvious remedies and how to 
build for the future. Can the leopard change its skin? No. Can the lion cease to prey? 
Absolutely impossible. Can the flower cease to bloom or the mineral to crystallize? Certainly 
not; because they are under laws which are as unchangeable as the laws of the Medes and 
Persians. They have neither choice nor prerogative but must obey the dictates of the group 
spirit which guides them along their path of evolution. But in this respect we differ radically 
from those lower kingdoms, we have both choice and prerogative. We may do whatsoever we 
will and that is a factor which is never shown in the horoscope, a factor that may be made to 
play an all important role in every life. It is not enough to be born under a lucky star to have a 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



lucky life, for the horoscope shows only the tendencies and the person who is so well endowed 
will without questions have an abundance of opportunities to make his life fortunate in the very 
highest degree. But only in so far as he exerts himself to grasp opportunity on the wing, will 
that which is foreshadowed in his horoscope come to pass. And similarly with the person who 
is afflicted by the conjunction of two malefics in the mid-heaven or anywhere else in the 
horoscope. By his will, and the exercise of choice, which are his divine birthrights, he may rule 
his stars and make of the unlucky horoscope a fruitful life from a far higher standpoint than the 
other. The bark that has been tossed by the tempest harbors a job when the haven of safety is 
reached that is not equaled on the ship that has always said on smiling seas. 

"Who never ate his bread in sorrow, 
Who never passed the midnight hours 
Weeping, waiting for the morrow, 
He knows not yet ye heavenly powers." 

   From the higher standpoint those who are living in the lap of luxury are to be pitied when 
their lucky stars give them all the good things of this world and cause them to forget that they 
are stewards and that the day is coming when their souls shall be required of them with an 
accounts of their stewardship. They shall then be forced to confess that they have failed to use 
the substance entrusted to them in the proper manner; while others under the strain and stress 
of live, expressed by the horoscopical squares and oppositions, have wrung from their unlucky 
stars a measure of victory. What wonder then if the king's messengers, the circling stars, take 
from the unfaithful steward that which he had and give to the other, changing the latter's 
adversity to prosperity in later lives. Thus the pendulum of luck and loss, success and failure 
swings through many lives till we learn to make our own "luck" by ruling our stars. 

"A god can love without cessation, 
But under laws of alteration 
We mortals need, in changing measure, 
Our share of pain as well as pleasure." 

   And it is this necessity for change that is ministered unto us by the circling stars which form 
configurations that we call good or evil, though they are neither from a higher standpoint; for no 
matter how good the horoscope, by progression of the stars evil configurations are sure to 
come and no matter how evil, there are always new opportunities for good given by aspects of 
the Sun, Venus, and Jupiter to our planets at birth. All that we have to do is to grasp the 
opportunity, and help our stars, that our stars may help us.

AMULETS, BIRTH-STONES AND PLANETARY COLORS

   In the windows of jeweler's shops and in cheap, ready made horoscopes one may often read 
that it is "Lucky" for people born in a certain month to wear a particular stone or color. It means 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



business to the jeweler and the astrological prestidigitator who produced "your horoscope" by a 
turn of the wrist from a box when you tell him in what month you were born. Both buy their 
instructive (?) literature at a nominal price per thousand, the principal cost being paper and 
printers' ink; there are no furrows in their foreheads from deep and earnest study of the 
problem. 

   But as the counterfeit coin argues the existence of the genuine, so also the fallacious 
information flippantly dispensed by people who cater to the sense of mystery and wonder 
which is deeply imbedded in human nature argues the existence of a genuine science of 
mineralogical correspondences with the stellar rays impinging upon all who inhabit our sub-
lunar sphere; and when this is rightly understood by the majority of people, for then it is the 
result of accurate knowledge scientifically used, and therefore the outcome is as inevitable as 
that water runs down hill. 

   The philosophy of planetary colors and mineralogy is that each of the Creative Hierarchies 
which is active in evolution works with the various classes of beings from mineral to man, and 
is responsible for the progress made by them. In the course of this work each Hierarchy 
naturally imparts to the beings with whom it labors some of its own nature and vibration. Thus 
each group of minerals, each species of plant and animal, vibrates to a certain keynote which 
blends with the vibration of the Group Spirit, and the particular sign and planet with which he is 
most nearly attuned. 

   It has been taught by the Elder Brothers in the Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception, that: 

   The Archangels, who were humans in the Sun Period when the present animals started their 
evolution with a mineral-like existence, are now the Group Spirits of the animals. 

   The Angels, who were human in the Moon Period when the present plants commenced their 
evolution with a similar mineral constitution are now the Group Spirits of the planets. Man, who 
reached the human stage in the Earth Period, is now working with the new life-wave which 
started its evolution on the Earth as minerals. He is not far enough advanced to assume the 
role of Group Spirit, that being reserved for the future. In the Jupiter Period he will give them 
life as plants have, in the Venus Period he will bring out their desires and emotions as animals, 
and in the Vulcan Period he will give them a mind and make then human. That, however, is all 
in the future. At present he is working with them to the best of his ability, smelting them into 
iron bridges, ships and skeleton skyscrapers; he is pulling them into wires which wind around 
the world; he is grinding from them gems that glitter and grace the great in our social structure, 
and thus he is gradually establishing an intimate relationship with them and preparing to take 
charge of their evolution as a Group Spirit at some future time. 

   It is well known to students of Astrology that an astrological reading based upon the month in 
which an individual is born is worth little, for all the people born in the same month do not have 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



the same experiences by any means, but if we consider the day, the year and the place we get 
a horoscope that is absolutely individual and totally different in detail from the horoscope of 
anyone else--and this is the point which concerns us for the present argument--the ruler is not 
the lord of the sign of the Sun is in, except for children born at Sunrise, when the Sun is on the 
Ascendant. It is the ruler of the Rising Sign, that is the determinator with regard to our 
mineralogical affinity, because at the moment of conception when the seed-atom of our 
present mineral body was deposited the Moon was in that particular sign and degree, (or its 
opposite), and acted then as a focus of forces which have since crystallized into the vehicle we 
now wear. 

   The following table shows the affinity of each of the twelve signs with certain gems, metals 
and colors, and in that chart there are the elements for making an effective talisman by any 
individual who has the knowledge of how to cast a horoscope and blend the ingredients 
according to the requirements of the case. We have no scruples about telling how this is done, 
for it may help some to help themselves and others. The only harm it can do is that it might 
induce some unscrupulous person to make talisman for money and even then, if he is 
conscientious about the work, whoever obtains them will not be cheated, the reaction being 
upon the one who prostitutes the spiritual science for material gain. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   To forestall a question we may say that ancient astrologers who have studied this aspect of 
the science have tabulated several hundred minerals of which the planetary affinities had been 
noted, but these works have been mutilated in the course of time, and are now not available. 
Paracelsus and also Agrippa, made considerable study of this subject, and with very important 
results; but its extensive consideration is outside the scope of this work, so the authors will 
confine their remarks to the essentials, indicating the way which others may pursue if they feel 
so inclined. 

   To illustrate how the mineral elements may be used to advantage let us take the following 
example: Suppose that in a certain horoscope we find Sagittarius rising with its lord Jupiter on 
the Ascendant. Jupiter is then the ruling planet and so, according to our chart turquoise is the 
person's birthstone, tin, the metal with which he has affinity, and blue, his color. That means 
that it will help him express himself if he wears turquoise, an amulet of tin, and dresses in blue 
whenever consistent with custom. That is true of a certain extent, but it is only a small part of 
the truth, and it is by no means the best use that may be made of this knowledge. 

   To indicate the better way, let us suppose that this person's figure shows severe afflictions 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



by Mars and Saturn. 

   Mars afflicts three planets; his metal is iron, Venus is the opposite of Mars; her metal is 
copper, and consequently copper is an antidote for the martial vibrations. 

   Saturn afflicts one planet; his metal is lead. Jupiter is his opposite and therefore the Jupiter 
metal, tin, is an antidote for the Saturnian vibrations. 

   With this in mind an amulet may be compounded of tin and copper not exactly in the ratio of 
three to one, but with a mind on the bulk of the various planets, their destiny and the strength 
of the aspects it is desired to overcome, a matter which involves further study. The work itself 
should be done under auspicious planetary conditions. A Mars amulet, designed to give 
energy to one with a weak figure would be most successful if made in a Mars-hour on a 
Tuesday when both the Sun and Moon are in martial signs as happened in April and 
November. The same with amulets made for other planets. (See the Tables of Planetary 
Hours, in our Simplified Scientific Astrology.) 

   A gem or an amulet made on these principles is a focus of the stellar rays of the planets it 
represents and infuses vibrations of their nature into our auras all the while we are wearing it, 
just as surely as the wireless receiver attuned to a certain pitch catches the waves within its 
range; and we may blend the colors in the same manner to obtain help from them. As a matter 
of fact, it is the complementary color which is seen in the desire world that produces the effect 
of the physical colors. If it is desired to restrain one whose Mars is too prominent, the gems, 
colors and metals of Saturn will help, and such a person should have as little to do with iron 
(tools, machinery, etc..) as possible, but if we want to help someone who is moody and 
taciturn, we may use the gems, colors and metals of Mars to advantage. In the final analysis 
the matter resolves itself into a question of judgment and common sense. With these, the 
knowledge concerning the essentials here given may be used by anyone to advantage.

WHEN IS THE BEST TIME TO BE BORN?

   In the light of occult investigation of the subject it appears that birth is an advent we are 
powerless to control; therefore when we seem to control it in a slight degree we are really the 
agents of Destiny to precipitate or delay it till the proper moment has arrived. This view is also 
justified by the author's experience in Horary Astrology. The philosophy of Horary Astrology is 
that at the time one is impelled to ask a question concerning an important matter the heavens 
contain also the answer and a figure set is when the inquirer asks the question of the 
astrologer, if this is done in person; when it is done by mail the astrologer sets the figure for the 
time he reads the question in the letter. 

   On a number of occasions we have received letters containing questions which bore marks 
of having been delayed by flood or fire, but the figure cast for the moment of reading gave the 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



answer, showing that the delay had a part in the plan, nor should it surprise us that the great 
Intelligences which are the ministers of Destiny foresee and make allowance for contingencies 
beyond the grasp of the human mind. When the Infinite Mind bestows equal care upon the 
design of the anatomy of a fly, a mouse and a lion, may we not conclude that a similar 
attention to the minutiae prevails in all departments of life and that when we seem to delay or 
precipitate birth we are really aiding nature to takes its predetermined course as said in the 
opening sentence of this article. 

   Nevertheless people often ask the astrologer when is the best time to be born; young 
astrologers also frequently want to know this, not that they have any idea of controlling birth 
but so that on seeing a horoscope or being told a person's time of birth they may make a quick 
mental calculation as to whether the horoscope is good or bad. Such a judgment would of 
course, be founded only on the position of the sun by sign and approximate house, hence 
general in the extreme. It may be said however that other planetary positions being equal, it is 
better to be born when the Moon is increasing in light from the new to the full than when she is 
decreasing from the full to the new for the growing Moon always increases vitality and furthers 
our affairs. 

   It is best to be born in April or August when the life-giving Sun is in its exaltation sign Aries or 
Leo, its home, for then we enter the sea of life on the crest-save and are backed in the battle of 
existence by an abundant fund of vim and energy. 

   It is also good to be born in May or July when the life-light of the Sun is focused thought the 
exaltation sign or home of the Moon, Taurus or Cancer, especially, as said, when the lesser 
light is increasing for those conditions, also furnish an abundance of vitality which is such a 
great asset in physical life. 

   With respect to the time of day most favorable for birth it may be said that children born 
about sunrise, or during the forenoon from 8 to 12 while the Sun is transversing the houses of 
friends and social prestige are the "luckiest" for they are helped on every hand. Children born 
between noon and midnight are less "lucky" the nearer the Sun comes to the Nadir, and them 
the "luck" turns again in favor of those born in the early morning while the Daystar is ascending 
towards the eastern horizon. They will have to carve their own way in the world, but 
opportunities will be given them in abundance. 

   We may therefore sum up our conclusions by saying that it is best to be born at Sunrise or in 
the forenoon, preferably in April or August when the Moon is increasing in light. 

   Finally it should always be borne in mind that there is no "luck," in the commonly accepted 
sense, for that which we have or lack in any respect is due to our own actions in the past, and 
in the future we may by proper application have what we now lack. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



CHAPTER IV 

READING THE HOROSCOPE 
INTRODUCTORY 

   When the student of Astrology has learned to cast the horoscope correctly by the study of 
our "Simplified Scientific Astrology," or another reliable textbook, the next and most important 
part is to read its message. Astrology means "Star Logic" and we must seriously advise the 
student not to depend too much on authorities but to try to understand the basic nature of each 
planet, the influence of signs, houses and aspects: then by a process of reasoning to combine 
these and thus develop his own intuition which will serve him far better than the ability to quote 
like a poll parrot what some one else has said. 

   We would also advise the younger astrologer not to bother too much with the descriptions of 
physical appearance indicated in the horoscope. It is foolish to spend hours in studying over a 
phase of the subject which is of limited value. We give descriptions of the different physical 
types, but do so for the purpose of aiding the student to determine at sight the probable sign 
and planet rising when a person comes who does not know his birth hour. There are people for 
instance, who have a face perfectly resembling that of a sheep. If such a one were in doubt 
about the birth hour, we would at once look to Aries and experimentally try how Aries rising 
would fit with the other characteristics of that person; if we did so we should probably find our 
guess to be correct. Thus also the other signs and planets in signs exhibit distinguishing 
characteristics of valuable aid to the student in the direction mentioned. 

   The student should also endeavor to cultivate perfect confidence in the science of Astrology. 
There is nothing empirical about character reading and diagnosis. In those respects it is plain 
as A B C. Predictions may fail because the Astrologer is unable to determine the strength of 
will of the person for whom he predicts, but the latent tendencies are always accurately 
foreshown. The writers have found that where they do not personally know the people who 
characteristics they read, their delineations are much deeper and more accurate than 
otherwise because then personal impressions and bias are absent and the mystic scroll of the 
heavens is more easily read. 

   There are three factors which bring to us the mystic message of the stars; the houses, the 
signs and the planets. 

   Each house represents a department of life; the signs are divisions of the heavens which by 
their placement relative to the houses indicate our basic temperament and attitude towards life; 
and the planets are the messengers of God which by their motion through the houses and 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



signs bring to us the opportunities for soulgrowth which we need for our individual 
development. It is therefore necessary for one who wishes to learn to read a horoscope to 
become thoroughly acquainted with these three factors both separately and in their various 
combinations. The following descriptions may help to convey this knowledge:

THE HOUSES

   The houses are called "Mundane Houses," to differentiate between them and the "Celestial 
Houses" namely the twelve signs of the Zodiac; but generally they are designated as "houses" 
only. 

   It is the angle of the stellar ray which determines its effect in our lives, planets which are in 
the East affect our physical constitution, planets in the South near the zenith are factors for 
good or ill where our social position is concerned. If a planet is setting in the West at the time 
of our birth its ray strikes us in such a manner as to draw us to a certain type of marriage 
partner, and the planets under the earth, in the North, have an effect upon our condition in the 
latter part of life. Let us suppose for illustration of the point that someone is born at sunrise on 
a day when the Sun and Jupiter are in conjunction. Then they strike him from the eastern 
angle and give him splendid vitality. Another born on the same day at noon when Jupiter and 
the Sun are in the zenith position may have a very poor, weak body if other planets in the East 
are adverse, but the ray of the Sun and Jupiter falling or his birth figure from the South will 
certainly attract to him attention in his social sphere and make him the recipient of public favor 
and honor. Another born on the same day, when the Sun and Jupiter are setting in the West 
may be an outcast if planets in the East and South so decree, but the benefic ray of the Sun 
and Jupiter from the Western angle will make him beloved of his mate and successful in 
partnerships. These facts have been ascertained by observation and tabulation. Therefore the 
twelve sections of the circle of observation as seen from the birthplace are truly said to rule or 
govern various departments of life and thus people born on the same day may have the most 
diverse experiences. 

   The houses may be variously grouped according to the influence they exercise in our lives; 
there are "angular," "succedent" and "cadent" houses, also personal, spiritual, material, social 
and mystical houses. 

   Of the angles, the first house governs our personal self, and its opposite the seventh house, 
rules the one who is nearest and dearest to us, namely, the marriage partner. The fourth 
house determines conditions in our home and its opposite angle, the tenth house, shows our 
social standing in the community where we live. Thus the angles show collectively the sphere 
of our activities in life. 

   Of the succedent houses the second shows our financial status with regard to that which we 
acquire by our own efforts and the opposite succedent house, the eight, shows whatever we 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



may receive from others as legacies, etc. The other succedent houses, the fifth and eleventh, 
show how our income may be spent, for the fifth house indicates the children of our body who 
have a legitimate claim to a share of our income, and the eleventh house shows the children of 
our brains, our hopes, wishes and aspirations which also draw upon our resources. 

   Of the two pairs of cadent houses the sixth is the house of voluntary service which we 
perform as our share of the world's work for an equivalent share in the world's wealth, and the 
twelfth house shows how we may be compelled to labor without remuneration under prison 
restraint if we do not work willingly. The sixth house shows also the state of our health and the 
twelfth tells if hospital treatment is necessary. 

   The other pair of cadent houses, the third and ninth show whether our life and work will 
confine us to one place or require travel and changes of residence. In this respect the third 
house shows short journeys and the ninth house long travels. 

   The personal houses comprise the first, fifth and ninth. The first house rules the constitution 
and peculiarities of the physical body. Planets and signs in that house put their stamp on it to 
make or mar according to the nature of its self-generated destiny. Our fifth house shows the 
quality of love-nature of the soul and the line of its expression if it follows the line of least 
resistance; and the ninth house shows as much of the spirit as we can apprehend in our 
present limited state. 

   The material trinity of houses consists of the second, sixth and tenth and shows the worldly 
possessions of man, his means of obtaining them and the enjoyment they bring him. Wealth, 
or its reverse, is shown by the second house, health, without which there can be no joy in any 
worldly possession, is shown by the sixth house; and the public prestige which is the chief 
source of gratification to the average human being, is shown by the tenth house. 

   The social houses are the third, seventh, and eleventh houses and in them is shown the 
nature of our relations and various classes of souls we meet in life. Brothers and sisters to 
whom we are bound by the time of blood are shown by the third house, the companion of our 
heart with whom our blood blends in another way, is shown by the seventh house, and the 
friends, more precious than pearls to whoever has earned friendship, are designated by the 
eleventh house. 

   The fourth and last trinity of houses is composed of the fourth, eighth and twelfth. If them are 
hidden mysteries of the ante-natal life of the spirit, and the post mortem experiences 
immediately to follow the terminus vitae. On the material plane the fourth house signifies our 
condition in the latter part of life, the twelfth shows the sorrow which impresses us with the 
worthlessness of material things and the eighth indicates the nature of our exit from the world's 
stage. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   An illustration may further help the student to understand how the heavens influence our life 
through the twelve houses. Suppose we are out driving and our road follows the seacoast, but 
a mile or so inland. A breeze is blowing from the ocean and as it passes over the country 
separating us from the sea, it brings upon invisible wings messages from that land, which 
evoke pleasure or aversion according to their nature. In one place, an aroma of new mown hay 
fills us with delight; perhaps we are nauseated by the noxious smell of jasmine on the next 
stretch of our journey; and later become really ill from the stench of stagnant marsh-water. But 
then we enter a forest, and soon its grateful pine balm restores the normal health and spirits. 

   In our journey from the cradle to the grave we carry the twelve houses with us in the auric 
atmosphere surrounding us, as the air envelops the flying earth. Each house mirrors part of the 
life; each holds some of our life lessons; each represents how we have worked or shirked 
before in a given department of life's tasks. At the appropriate time of life we reap from each 
house what we have sown in past lives, that is, unless we forestall the harvest in time. Is our 
eleventh house afflicted, do friends betray and forsake us, do they leave us heartsick, or 
nauseate us like the scent of jasmine and stagnant marsh-water? Then let us examine the 
horoscope for it reveals what is hidden in our auric atmosphere. The friends sensed us, and 
we then, through the eleventh angle, and something ill-smelling must be there. It may be, we 
long to be befriended, more than to befriend others. Let us cease to be like the sickly, 
debilitating jasmine, and seek to manifest the sturdy strength of the invigorating pine tree; then 
we shall find friend flocking around, admiring our strength. Not all have such sturdy natures, 
but we can attract equally by kindliness, as soothing to sorrowing hearts as perfume of new 
mown hay to the sense, and thus we may rid the house of friends of affliction. 

   After the foregoing explanations, the houses may now be said to influence the affairs of life 
as follows: 

   First House rules the physical body and its constitution and appearance; it determines 
conditions in the childhood home while the person is under control of the parents. 

   Second House rules money, the financial fortunes; it shows what the person acquires by 
individual effort and to a certain extent what use he will make of it. 

   Third House rules brothers and sisters, neighbors, the instinctual mind, writings, short 
journeys and conveyances of travel. 

   Fourth House-- That one of the parents who exercises the lesser influence in the person's 
life, conditions in the latter part of life, houses, lands, mines; everything pertaining to the earth. 

   Fifth House-- Love, courtship and licentiousness, the legitimate and illegitimate attraction 
and social intercourse between the sexes prior to wedlock; children, education institutions, 
books and newspapers, sports and amusements, stocks and speculations. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   Sixth House-- Health, service to be rendered by the person and also the condition and 
faithfulness of those who serve him. 

   Seventh House-- The marriage partner, the public in general, competitors, partners, 
opponents in litigations, rivals. 

   Eighth House-- Death, legacies, the marriage partner's finances, occult abilities and 
faculties latent but nearly ready for manifestation. 

   Ninth House-- Religion, spiritual experiences and aspirations, dreams and visions, long 
travels and law. 

   Tenth House-- The parent who exercises most influence in the person's life, the honor and 
social standing of the person, his employer or judge, and the government. 

   Eleventh House-- Friends, companions and well-wishers, hopes, wishes and aspirations, 
generally of a material nature, also stepchildren. 

   Twelfth House-- Confinement in hospitals or prison, secret enemies and plots; sorrow and 
self undoing.

THE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC

   On either side of the Sun's path there are a number of fixed stars which are so grouped that 
they may be conceived as forming twelve constellations, and as they have certain 
characteristic influences ancient sages named them for the animals which express similar 
traits. These constellations are called the Natural Zodiac and for all practical purposes it may 
be said that they occupy permanent positions relative to the other fixed stars of the firmament. 
This circle is divided into twelve sections starting at the first degree of Aries, which is occupied 
by the Sun at the vernal equinox. 

   On account of the precession of the equinox the Sun does not cross the equator at the same 
point each year, but it has been found that the first 30 degrees from the point where the Sun 
does cross the equator at the equinox have an effect similar to that ascribed to the 
constellation Aries; the next thirty degrees radiate a Taurean influence and so on with the other 
ten sections of thirty degrees each. Therefore the twelve sections measured from the vernal 
equinox are used exclusively in Astrology and called Signs of the Zodiac, to differentiate them 
from the Constellations. (For a thorough elucidation of the subject see "Simplified Scientific 
Astrology," under the caption "Intellectual Zodiac.") 

   These twelve signs of the Zodiac are variously divided according to their effect on humanity 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



into Cardinal, Fixed and Common signs, also into Fiery, Earthy, Airy and Watery signs. What 
their influences are we shall endeavor to elucidate in the following sections.

THE CARDINAL SIGNS 
Keyword "Activity" 

   The Cardinal Signs are Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn. These signs are called Cardinal 
because when the Sun is in them he is in one of the four corners of the heavens; at a turning-
point, where he is forced to take another direction. In Aries he is as far East as he can go; 
Cancer is the tropical point of the North where he gives the perpendicular ray at the Summer 
Solstice, and consequently the greatest heat. Libra is the extreme western point of his path, 
where he turns away from the Northern Hemisphere, and in midwinter, at Christmas, he is in 
Capricorn at the farthest point south, where his horizontal ray leaves the people of the North in 
winter's icy grip. The effect of the angels, the first, fourth, seventh and tenth houses, is similar 
to the effect of the cardinal signs because these houses are at the East, North, West and 
South points of the horoscope. The nature and effect of cardinal signs and angles may be 
summed up in the words "Action" and "Initiative" (though each acts differently from the others,) 
therefore planets placed in cardinal signs and angles give zest to life according to the nature of 
the particular planet, sign and angle. 

   "Zodiac" means a circle of animals. The symbols of three of the cardinal signs are 
animalistic: Aries, the Ram; Cancer, the Crab; and Capricorn, the Goat. The fourth , Libra, the 
Scales, represents the ideal towards which this class must strive. None need poise so much as 
those under the impulsive influence of the cardinal ray; therefore the Balance was set in the 
heavens to direct their aspirations.

THE FIXED SIGNS 
Keyword "Stability" 

   The Fixed Signs are Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and Aquarius. Three symbols of the fixed signs 
are also bestial, violent and virulent; Taurus, the Bull; Leo, the Lion; and Scorpio, the Scorpion. 
The human figure of Aquarius, the Waterbearer, shows us the ideal towards which this class 
must strive. Instead of fighting, preying upon, or poisoning others in the struggle for existence 
they must learn to become humane, to be friends to all instead of foes. 

   The influence of the fixed signs rouses the desire nature, giving stamina and persistence in 
action. 

   When fixed signs are on the angles (the first, fourth, seventh and tenth houses), they exert a 
well nigh irresistible force, impelling the individual along a certain line. He may be slow and 
plodding, but is sure to be persistent in whatever he undertakes, and whatever talent he may 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



posses in a certain direction will be exploited to its fullest extent. Setbacks which would take 
the courage from a person with cardinal signs do not daunt the man with fixed signs on the 
angels, he knows no defeat, and therefore he usually gains his goal in the end and achieves 
success by Concentration upon one point, and Persistence in following his chosen path. On 
the other hand such people are conservative to the last degree. They may see and desire 
improvements in various lines, but are exceedingly slow to adopt measures to accomplish the 
desired end; they never do this until thoroughly satisfied that a certain method will meet the 
requirements. In other words, people with fixed signs on the angels "look before they leap;" 
they look a long time and very, very carefully, but on the other hand, when they have once 
been won over to a certain cause they are faithful unto death, and no more ardent advocates 
can be found; their zeal is almost fanatical. On the whole, people with fixed signs may be said 
to be the most reliable people in the world, either for good or bad.

THE COMMON SIGNS 
Keyword "Flexibility" 

   Gemini, Sagittarius, Virgo and Pisces are called common signs, their intrinsic nature being 
best expressed by the keyword, Flexibility. 

   The forces working through the Cardinal signs impinge upon the Dense Body and stir it to 
action. 

   The power of the common signs is mental and spiritual giving purpose to action and 
incentive to nobility of life. 

   Therefore people influenced by stellar forces focused principally through Cardinal signs are 
the workers of the world, not the toilers, but executives, who accomplish things industrially, and 
who bring into concrete existence schemes, great or small, of value in the world's work. The 
Common signs are all double; two of them are human: Gemini, the Twins, and Virgo, the 
Virgin; the third, Sagittarius, the Centaur, is partly human; and only the fourth symbol, Pisces, 
the Fishes, is taken from the lower kingdom. None are violent, however, but intensely moral, 
intellectual and spiritual symbols. 

   Unstable as reeds they are swayed hither and thither; nothing appeals to them permanently, 
they desire nothing as much as change. No matter how well placed, they can seldom resist the 
lure of an opening in another city, the farther away, the better. Therefore the old maxim: "a 
rolling stone gathers no moss," applies particularly to this class, for their roving habits usually 
keep them poor. They spend as fast as they earn, or faster. Thus these people drift upon the 
sea of life propelled by the currents of circumstances. Outside conditions dominate them as 
they lack stamina to assert their own individuality. 

   The foregoing is true of the great majority who are under the rule and influence of common 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



signs; they respond to the lower phase simply because the higher side is too high for all but a 
very few at our present stage of development. Those who make a success in the world 
because prodded by the cardinal and fixed influences, call them indolent and good-for-nothing, 
but were the former bereft of the cardinal or fixed energy which goads them to action, and 
placed under the common ray, they would soon realize its lack of power and learn compassion 
for those who must so live all their lives. What then is the lesson these people have to learn?

COMPARATIVE EFFECT OF CARDINAL, FIXED AND COMMON SIGNS ON 
THE ANGLES

   While the nature of the cardinal signs is such that their rays stir our latent forces into action 
and promote change, the most prominent quality of the fixed signs is Stability; but the student 
must beware of confounding stability with inertia. The action induced by the rays of cardinal 
signs may be changed into other channels with considerable facility, all they want being 
expression; the direction in which they express themselves is a secondary consideration. Not 
so with the fixed signs, when their ray impels to action in a certain direction it is next to 
impossible to stay the force or change it. On the other hand, if they deny expression in certain 
lines, the obstruction is almost insurmountable. 

   People of the fixed class lack ability to make their inventions commercially usable, a task for 
which the cardinal class is eminently fitted. Thus these two classes work hand in hand and 
between them they have transformed the wilderness of the world to a condition of comparative 
comfort, their efforts toward improvement are continually carried on, and in time the desert will 
be made to bloom like a rose. 

   As material success depends on ability to cope with material conditions, the cardinal class is 
particularly fortunate, for it is the chief executive factor in the world's work, and reaps ready 
reward therefrom. The fixed class is not so prominently before the public, labors in laboratories 
and works experimentally to complete the processes and perfect the models which are later 
used in manufacture. Therefore this class also is a potent factor in life, and shares the material 
and financial success of the cardinal class. 

   The common class is a sharp contrast. Forces focused through Common signs are mental, 
therefore people ruled by them are averse to strenuous physical action which is the forte of the 
cardinal class; they labor only when lashed by the whip of necessity. They are also incapable 
of the slow by sustained effort put forth by the fixed class and are easily discourage by 
obstacles. Thus they are leaners not lifters. Toilers who do the bidding of the incentive and 
executive classes are recruited from people ruled by Common signs. There is one sphere, 
however, where they shine, according to their ability to think. Being averse to work they have 
created a vantage-ground whence they may reap the benefits of the toil of others, of their 
inventive faculties and executive skill. To do this they become promoters who bring inventor 
and manufacturer together, agents who mediate between buyer and seller, peddlers, vendors 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



and all other middlemen who go between producer and consumer and live on a commission; 
also literary men who devote their talent to purposeless fiction belong to the class actuated by 
the lower phases of the force in the common signs. 

   The cardinal class is active, the common is restless, the fixed class is rigid, the common is 
flexible.

THE FOUR TRIPLICITIES

   The effect of the "Triplicities" is most marked in the rising sign and when the majority of the 
planets are grouped in one of them. 

   A fiery sign (Aries, Leo or Sagittarius), on the ascendant, gives much vitality, but it also 
makes the person prone to fevers and inflammatory disorders; and when the majority of the 
planets are in fiery signs they make it very difficult for the person to "keep cool" physically or 
mentally. 

   A watery sign (Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces) rising, gives much less stamina and predisposes 
to digestive, urinary and catarrhal troubles. If a person has many planets in watery signs his 
problem is to generate enough energy to keep warm, for this grouping gives a listless, 
indifferent disposition, except when Scorpio is rising or when many planets are in that sign. 

   Airy signs rising (Gemini, Libra and Aquarius) give a nervous temperament and make the 
person liable to disorders of the lungs, heart and kidneys. Many planets in these signs give 
people literary and artistic inclinations. 

   Earthy signs rising (Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn), give fair vitality but a secret fear of disease 
arrests the vital processes in the body and poisons these people so that they become victims 
of chronic ailments oftener than those of the other groupings. The throat, stomach and 
intestines are specially threatened; rheumatism and gout are also frequently experienced. 
When a person has many planets in earthy signs it favors the acquisition of material wealth.

THE SUN, THE MOON AND THE ASCENDANT

   We stated in our opening paragraph that there are Three Great Factors which convey to us 
the Mystic Message of the stars in general, namely, the "houses," the "signs" and the 
"planets." There are also three factors which play a specially important part in the individual 
horoscope, namely the Sun, the Moon and the Ascendant, which may be said to represent the 
spirit, the soul and the body. 

   Properly viewed the Sun, Moon and Ascendant are not really three separate horoscopical 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



principles but represent two composite parts which when united constitute the human being. 
The "rising sing" and the "first house" together form an avenue for the fecundating influences 
of the Moon which there crystallize and form the etheric matrix that moulds the physical 
particles from the maternal body into a new vehicle; hence the astrological maxim, that the 
ascendant at birth (or its opposite) is the Moon's place at conception. This composite body is 
the part of the human being which is born and dies after a relatively evanescent period of 
existence. 

   The other and immortal part of composite man which consists of the Ego and its finer 
vehicles is represented in the horoscope by the Sun and the Moon. The specific influence of 
these planets will be described when we have considered the rising sign.

THE RISING SIGN

   As taught in "Simplified Scientific Astrology" it is the angle of the stellar ray which determines 
in what department of life it will be most prominently active; and it has been found by 
observations that the sign rising or ascending on the eastern horizon when a child is born is 
the principal factor in determining the basic constitution and form of the physical body. Further 
investigations have shown that the reason for this fact is that at the time of conception when 
the seed-atom was planted in the ovum the Moon, which is the Cosmic agent of fecundation, 
projected its fertilizing ray through the sign and degree which later rises at the moment of birth, 
(or its opposite). For that reason the rising sign and degree continue to be the avenue of 
ingress of the life-forces which build the body of the babe until the severance of the umbilical 
cord, and the nature of the rising sign is thus indelibly stamped upon the new vehicle and 
retained all through life. 

   In this connection it should be noted that conception is not necessarily coincident with the 
physical union of the parents, sometimes two weeks or even more elapsing ere the auspicious 
moment awaited by the Recording Angels or their agents strike. At that time cosmic conditions 
are such that they will form a body which will facilitate the expression of the Ego seeking re-
embodiment and aid it to work out its self-generated destiny. It should also be remembered by 
students that the moment of delivery is not the time of birth from the astrological point of view. 
The inhalation of the first complete breath usually accompanied by a cry, is the moment when 
the incoming Ego receives its stellar baptism. This renders it ever susceptible to the influence 
of the particular configuration of the stars existing at that moment, and therefore the stars 
affect each individual differently from all others, not even the horoscope of twins being alike. It 
is also strongly emphasized that according to this explanation we do not have a certain "fate" 
because we were born at a particular time, but we are born at a particular time because we 
have a certain self-generated destiny to work out. That is very important distinction for its 
substitutes divine law for divine caprice, it eliminates the element of "luck" and inspires man to 
mastery of "fate: by working with the Law. If we have made our present horoscope by our past 
actions in a past life, logically we are now preparing for future embodiment and may make it 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



what we choose. If we strive to strengthen our body now, to overcome our faults, to cultivate 
new virtues, the Sun of our next life will rise under much more auspicious conditions than 
those under which we now live and thus we may truly rule our stars and master our fate. 

   When the last three degrees of a sign are rising or when the first three degrees ascend at the 
time of birth the person is said to be born "on the cusp" between two signs and them the basic 
nature of the signs involved are blended in his or her body. Thus a person born when the three 
last degrees of Aries or the first degrees of Taurus were ascending would be neither purely 
Aries nor Taurus were ascending would be neither purely Aries nor Taurus but a mixture of the 
qualities of the two signs. 

   The nature of the rising sign is also modified by the presence of planets. The Sun and Mars 
increase vitality if well aspected but it afflicted they incline to fever and inflammatory disorders 
but they also favor rapid recuperation, and make the nature alert and energetic. A well-
aspected Jupiter rising also increases vitality but inclines to corpulence, if the planet is afflicted 
that makes the circulation sluggish and thus gives a tendency to disorders of the blood. The 
foregoing remarks about Jupiter apply to Venus in a lesser degree. Saturn rising lowers the 
vitality and favors chronic ill-health in later life, but at the same time he gives such a tenacious 
hold on life that though the person may pray to be released he cannot die. Mercury, Moon, 
Uranus and Neptune make the body more high-strung and nervous than the average, usable 
specially for pioneers in music, literature, higher thought, science and the electrical arts. 

   Planets placed in the twelfth house are considered as being on the ascendant if within six 
degrees thereof, also all planets in the first house no matter how far from the rising degree; but 
if a sign be intercepted in the first house, planets placed therein will not have as strong an 
influence in the life as though the sign occupy the cusp. 

CHAPTER V

THE INFLUENCE OF THE TWELVE SIGNS 
WHEN RISING 

 
ARIES, THE RAM 

   Aries is mythologically represented as a ram and the symbol describes most accurately 
those born under its influence; a pointed and protruding sheep like nose, wide forehead, 
pointed chin and the resultant triangular face noted in many people, are unmistakable 
indications of their rising sign. Light brown or reddish tint of the hair is a pronounced 
characteristic of the Arian,; the body is slender and well formed; if the first part of the sign is 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



rising the body is shorter, and the complexion darker than given by the latter degrees. 

   Planets in the rising sign will modify the description however, and the student must use his 
knowledge of the character of the planets in conjunction with the description of the Sign. The 
Sun and Mars make the complexion more florid, the Moon and Saturn make it paler and 
darker, Jupiter and Venus make the body more portly. Saturn shortens. Uranus and Mercury 
lengthens. This applies to all the signs, but is especially marked when a planet rises in the sign 
it rules. Mars in Aries rising would give fiery red hair and a face full of freckles. The Sun rising 
in Leo would give a florid complexion with flaxen hair, but if Saturn were there, instead it would 
shorten the body and darken the hair. 

   Aries people are bold, self-confident and impulsive; they aim to lead, dislike to follow, are 
always ready to take the initiative in any movement that appeals to them, but often lack 
persistence to carry their projects to a conclusion over serious obstacles. 

   The Sun, and Mars the Ruler, rising in Aries would intensify the above, but as a thorough 
explanation will be given under the heading "The Intrinsic Nature of the Planets," the student is 
referred thereto. We may mention it here, however, as a peculiarity that Aries people live 
through fevers to which others succumb. We have known their hair to fall out, and the 
temperature to remain four degrees above the usual maximum for many hours without fatal 
result.

TAURUS, THE BULL

   Taurus is represented by a Bull in the Zodiac, and the bodies generated under this sign are 
usually short and stocky. They have a strong neck with the bump of amativeness well 
developed, large lobe of the ear, heavy jaws, full face; nose short and stubby. Dark eyes and 
wavy hair frequently give them considerable beauty. The eye of the Taurean may never dart 
bolts of fire such as those wherewith the Arian would annihilate his enemies; it is softer, but 
under provocation it becomes sullenly expressive of the passive resistance wherewith these 
people win their battles. It then marks the difference between the impulsive Aries and the 
stubborn Taurus. The inner phalange of the thumb is large and heavy, the calves well 
developed and the foot chubby. In walking the Taurean usually plants his heel first, and 
heaviest. 

   Taurus people are pre-eminently "thorough and steadfast" in everything they do: In love, in 
hate, in work or play, they persist in a given direction, and neither reason nor argument will 
turn them. They are verbose and argumentative in defense of their actions or opinions; they 
grasp new ideas slowly, with difficulty and conservatively, but once comprehended and 
espoused, they always remember what they have learned and defend their opinions to the last 
ditch. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   The Sun rising in Taurus gives an unusually firm physique, and accentuates the Taurus pride 
in strength. The Moon, being the planet of fecundity, is exalted in this exceedingly fruitful sign; 
hence people with the Moon in Taurus have large families, particularly if the configuration is in 
the fifth house, for that designates children. 

   Venus, the ruler of Taurus, rising in that sign, makes the form beautiful as well as strong, 
also giving artistic ability and musical inspiration.

GEMINI, THE TWINS

   When Gemini is rising the body generated is tall and slender, the arms and limbs are 
particularly long, fingers slender, hair dark, eyes hazel. Gemini people are quick, active and 
alert in all their movements, habitual restlessness being noticeable in the expression of the 
eyes, which differs in that respect from more fixed tendencies of the eyes of those born under 
the two preceding signs, although of course we do not mean that the Arian always looks angry 
and the Taurean stubborn, nevertheless, there is a settled tendency in those directions 
noticeable when these people are not occupied in a certain direction; but the Gemini people 
have an expression which is much more vivid, changeable and past finding out. They have 
acutely inquiring minds, and always want to know the reason why, but often lack persistence to 
follow clews to the end, and thus they meet disappointment. Being tactful they avoid giving 
offense even under provocation, and are therefore generally liked by all; though their own 
affections are not deep. Two distinct classes are born under this sign; one, too fond of reading, 
should cultivate independent thought, instead of repeating other people's ideas, or aping their 
manners; the other is scientific, well balanced and reserved; a model for any person. 

   The Sun rising in Gemini brings out all the noblest traits of the sign; it makes the nature more 
settled and contented, gives more persistence and a particularly healthy and active body. 

   Mercury, the ruler, rising in Gemini, sharpens perception, gives ability as a writer, or speaker, 
but makes the person born with that position extremely irritable, vacillating and fond of change 
of scene and employment. Such people are best fitted for traveling salesmen.

CANCER, THE CRAB

   The chief peculiarities of the crab are a clumsy body, slender limbs and powerful claws.; 
people born with Cancer rising express them all. They have a large upper body, augmented in 
later years by a prominence of the abdomen acquired by over-eating. The mandible or lower 
jaw is powerfully hinged to the cranium, the face is therefore widest between the ears, the 
mouth is also large, and the whole construction similar to the crab's claw. The face is full, the 
hair brown, the eyes blue, complexion pale and sickly, for the Cancer person has the least 
vitality of any. The limbs are extremely slender in proportion to the large upper body, so the 
structure appears "top heavy," and he walks with a "rolling" gait. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   Cancer people are very fond of the home and its comforts, they are quiet, reserved and 
adapt themselves to conditions, hence they are easy to get along with; their anger is short-
lived, and they hold no spite. Though lacking in physical prowess, they are no hypocrites, but 
always have the courage of their convictions; they voice and defend them too. 

   The Sun rising in Cancer brings out and accentuates all the good qualities mentioned above, 
giving more ambition and pride; it also increases the vitality, and is a particular boon in that 
respect to people with Cancer rising on account of their very low life force. Cancer, with its 
rule; the Moon, governs the stomach and hence alimentation; Leo and its ruler, the Sun, have 
charge of the heart and circulation. If these signs and planets are well placed in the horoscope, 
they counteract most other afflictions and a long lease of life is assured, but if they are 
afflicted, much sickness results unless intelligent care is applied to modify the omen. 

   The Moon, the ruler, rising in Cancer, will give much instability to the natures, and Jupiter, 
being exalted there, will bring fortune and fame.

LEO, THE LION

   The lion is the king of beasts and even in captivity is an embodiment of stateliness and pride. 
The typical Leos of the Zodiac also express pride in every movement and a stateliness which 
will not escape attention of the keen observer; the expansive chest, the massive shoulders, the 
strong arm and the large head contrast noticeably with the more slender but still muscular 
under body; and as Aries has the sheep face, so the typical Leo has certain feline features. 
The complexion is florid, eyes large and full, blue or grayish in color, expressing laughter, 
cheerfulness and content. The whole frame is well knit and strong, having great endurance 
and recuperative power. 

   It is really wonderful how the symbology of the signs is brought out in the different kinds of 
people born under them. People who are born under Leo always want to be noted; they are 
aggressive and want to attract attention everywhere they go. They aim to be leaders, not 
followers. 

   Leo rules the heart, and it is a marked characteristic that people with Leo rising unafflicted, 
have hearts bigger than their pocketbooks, they give generously of their time, money or 
knowledge without thought of self. If the Sun rises in Leo, this trait becomes almost prodigality, 
but if Saturn is there to afflict instead, he will counteract it sot that they will either circumscribe 
their gifts with conditions to such an extent that they retain practical control, or they will spend 
their means on themselves. 

   Leos are honest and faithful; being children of the day star, they love light and truth, are 
above subterfuge and aim straight at their object. Their will is firm to attain by honorable 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



means, They make good orators and hold their audiences by personal magnetism. They are 
very attractive to the opposite sex, and the lower nature should be held firmly in check, 
otherwise serious trouble and heartache may ensure. The French, as a race, are ruled by Leo, 
and afford ample illustration of this point. 

   The Sun rising in Leo, unafflicted, gives a body of wonderful strength, vitality and 
recuperative power; superior in its wiriness to the body generated by the Sun in Taurus; but if 
Mars is afflicted in Leo, palpitation of the heart will ensue. Saturn here will cause regurgitation 
unless care is taken in early years to avoid strain.

VIRGO, THE VIRGIN

   People born when Virgo is rising are above middle stature. The upper part of the head is 
much more developed than the lower, the weak chin, showing lack of will and the large brain 
indicating greatness of intellect, being therefore earmarks of the Virgo. The face is thin, the 
complexion sallow, the hair brown and the eyes hazel or gray. The feet are small, the toes turn 
inwards and give these people a peculiar labored walk. 

   Virgo people are very quick and active in youth, they learn with facility, and do not work hard 
for knowledge; they seem to breathe it in without an effort. They acquire linguistic and 
elocutionary powers most readily, are fluent writers but are often cynical, cold and unforgiving 
when they have been injured. They are extremists in their food, and make hygiene a fad; they 
often fancy that they have every imaginable disease, because Virgo is the sixth sign and has a 
certain affinity with the sixth house, denoting health the and disease. 

   Mercury, the ruler, is also exalted here and gives pronouncement of all the good which 
otherwise might be expected from the Sun. 

   Virgo people are slender in youth, but when the Sun of Life passes the Meridian and begins 
to throw its shadows toward the East, we find in them a tendency toward corpulence of body, 
particularly of that part ruled by Virgo, namely, the abdomen. They neglect to take exercise, 
and naturally on this account a sluggish condition of the intestines may set in which retains the 
poisons in the body and robs life of its joys, making one indifferent. In this fact lies the greatest 
danger of the Virgo people. Once they get into the rut of sickness, they actually "enjoy" poor 
health. They love to talk over their symptoms with other people, and they resent any thought or 
suggestion given to them that they are not sick, or that they can get well. The presence of 
Saturn in Virgo, or the sixth house, accentuates this tendency in the very highest degree, and 
therefore it is an almost infallible sign that the native will have or be subject to chronic illness, 
the nature of the disease being denoted by the aspect, and the afflicting planets. 

   In order to deal successfully with Virgo people when they have once become subject to 
disease, and get them out of it at all, it is necessary to be firm almost to the verge of cruelty. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



But though one may seem cruel in enforcing upon them the regime that is necessary to bring 
them away from themselves, this is really the greatest kindness that can be shown, for once 
these people are in the grip of sickness they stubbornly refuse to let go; they will resort to the 
most cunning, even childlike schemes to excite sympathy, particularly from strangers, and they 
will represent any effort to show them that they are not helpless invalids. At the very slightest 
suggestion of a hopeful nature, they sometimes lost their temper in the most unwarranted 
manner. But when at last they are given the deaf ear by everybody, when people who are in 
their immediate environment can be persuaded to show them no sympathy, then they may 
come to themselves. They need a shock to bring them out and away from their condition. And 
until they get that they never can be cured. 

   The Virgos make splendid nurses, if they can keep from taking on the conditions of the 
patient. The Virgo people never can bear to see blood shed or touch dead things. They feel 
bodily injury to others more that harm done to themselves, and are in fact splendidly described 
by the word "chicken hearted."

LIBRA, THE SCALES

   Elegance may be said to express in one word the physical peculiarities of the Libran. The 
body is slender and graceful in youth, it becomes more plump as life advances, but even the 
portliness of the Libra body is pleasing. The complexion is smooth and clear, eyes are soft and 
blue with a kind expression; the mouth is unusually well formed and the teeth particularly fine 
and even. 

   Libra people have extremely strong conjugal affection, so strong, in fact, that it overshadows 
all other considerations. The Leos love their families, but their hearts take in all the world 
besides; not so the Librans; they are ready for any sacrifice to give comforts to those in their 
own immediate home circle, but they are also prepared to sacrifice any other family for their 
own, if necessary. 

   In most other traits the Librans express aptly the symbolism of their sign, a pair of scales, 
and their characteristics might be expressed in the word: "Changeability." They are people of 
"moods," because Saturn is exalted here and weighs upon the mind; the changes are sudden 
and extreme; they may follow a fad with as much zest as if their life depended upon it, and 
them without a moment's warning, drop it and take up something entirely opposite there are no 
half-way measures in the swing of the scales. Being naturally given to change, they are most 
adaptable to circumstances, and do not fret over reverses, but set about with vim and vigor to 
restore their fortunes. 

   Aries and Libra may be said to be the battlefields of the Sun and Saturn: Life and Death, Joy 
and Sorrow. The Sun is exalted in Aries, and vanquishes Saturn; hence the intrepidity of Aries 
people. In Libra the scales tip the other way; there Saturn is exalted, and conquers the Sun; 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



this gives a softer tone to the Libran, whose kindly politeness contrasts markedly with the 
Arian's brusque address. Venus, the ruler of Libra, is not alone responsible for this trait, Taurus 
people are blunt, though Venus rules. Venus rising in Libra gives artistic ability, Saturn turns 
the mind in scientific directions. 

   Librans usually have well shaped hands and feet, and are very proud of them.

SCORPIO, THE EAGLE

   The nose is the most prominent feature of the Scorpio; it is large, heave, and hooked, 
resembling the bill of the eagle, the brows are bushy, the eyes sharp and piercing; the jaw is 
very heavy; the glint of the eye, and the set of the jaw indicate the great determination which is 
the most prominent characteristic of the Scorpio. The face is angular, complexion murky, and 
hair dark, with a peculiar ruddy tinge noticeable when the sun shines on it. The teeth are large 
and subject to early decay. The body is short and thickest, with a short, thick neck resembling 
that of the opposite sign, Taurus. 

   Scorpio people always stand up for their rights, and never submit to imposition, through 
prone to ride roughshod over others. They are full of worries over things that may happen, but 
never do, and thus make life a burden to those around them. Sarcasm that stings like a 
scorpion is ever upon the tip of their tongue, yet their love is strong, and their aspirations lofty. 
Thus there are two natures struggling in the Scorpios and they need much sympathy and 
forbearance from their friends. In the hour of danger they never flinch, but perform deeds of 
heroism with a disregard for self that amounts to foolhardiness. The mind is sharp, cool and 
collected, therefore Scorpio men make good army officers and excel in surgery. The Scorpio 
woman has a large family. 

   The Sun in Scorpio accentuates the good traits, and gives a love mysticism; but Mars, the 
ruler, brings out the worldly side of the sign and makes scoffers and skeptics.

SAGITTARIUS, THE CENTAUR

   People born with Sagittarius rising are even taller that those born under the opposite sign, 
Gemini, the men in particular having large hands and feet. The size and weight of the bony 
frame is often too much for the ligaments of the spine to support, so these people often 
develop a decided stoop in later years. The face is long and well formed, the nose well 
proportioned, dark kindly eyes and dark chestnut hair. The body is very active, but requires 
much rest, as the recuperative powers are below the average. 

   The symbol of this sign shows that there are two widely different classes born therein. One, 
designated by the animal body of the Centaur, is frankly in for "a good time," they are sporty, 
soldiers of fortune, of roving proclivities, fond of games of change, and ready to risk their all on 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



the turn of a card, the speed of a horse, or a game of ball, while Aries or Scorpio people may 
become pugilists, and Taurus people take up wresting as a profession. The sports of 
Sagittarius have no element of cruelty in them. Sagittarians when afflicted may become 
criminals, their crimes are never violent, however, but rather results of their indulgence of the 
animal nature. 

   The other class is the extreme opposite, symbolized by the human part of the sign. Here is 
the man rising above the animal nature, bending the bow of aspiration and aiming at limitless 
space, signifying the loftiest longing of that immortal spark of incipient divinity we call the soul. 
This class is law abiding and of the highest morals; from it come the pillars of the church and 
beloved rulers of state famed for integrity, benevolence and justice. 

   The Sun rising in this sign is sure to bring preferment even to those born in lowly and 
obscure circumstances, and accentuate all good shown in the sign; so will Jupiter, the ruler. 

   Sagittarius rules the thighs and therefore, naturally, configurations from this sign, if afflicted 
are likely to cause accidents to those parts. And it is notable fact that Sagittarius are very liable 
to broken bones under circumstances where people under other signs seldom meet injury. 

   In the eighth degree of Sagittarius we have the fixed star Antares, which has a very evil 
effect upon the sight. Two other nebulous spots in the Zodiac have a similar influence. One is 
Ascelli in Leo 6, the other Pleiades in Taurus 29. The Sun, or Moon, in one of those places and 
adversely configurated with one of the malefics, Saturn, Mars, Uranus, or Neptune gives 
trouble with the eyes, according to the nature of the evil aspect; or vice versa, if Saturn, Mars, 
Uranus or Neptune are in one of the nebulous spots adversely configurated to the Sun or 
Moon a similar trouble will be experienced. Should a planet like one of the above named by in 
retrograde motion the aspect is much worse, for when the planet has ceased to retrograde and 
goes direct in the Zodiac again, it will pass over which ever one of these nebulous spots it is 
close to a second time and thereby cause an added damage. There may be, however, a 
compensating side to this aspect, for it sometimes happens that while an evil configuration to 
one of these nebulous spots, (and Antares is the worst,) deprives a person of his sight, a 
benevolent configuration awakens in him a second-sight which will mitigate the loss in a 
degree that only those who have that sight can appreciate. 

   The Sagittarian must learn to realize his ideals within instead of seeking them without. We 
are in this school of experience for the purpose of overcoming, and it is not by running away 
from one place to another that we gain experience. By staying in one place, by doing our very 
best to attain our ideals where we are, we make our ideals come true.

CAPRICORN, THE GOAT

   Capricorn rising gives a short, slender, narrow-chested body with a thin neck, thin silky dark 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



hair, a pale peaked face with small, weak eyes. It makes the chin pointed and turned upwards, 
the nose pointed and turned downwards, an impediment in the speech, ill formed lower limbs 
and an awkward walk. The vitality is very low, and these children are reared with great 
difficulty, but once infancy is past, they exhibit a tenacity that is truly amazing, and often 
become very, very old; they seem to dry up into a mass of wrinkled skin and bone that is all but 
imperishable, this, on account of the Saturn ray which rules Capricorn. It is noticeable also, 
that all who have that planet prominent in the nativity show the before mentioned wrinkling of 
the skin, even though they may retain corpulence conferred by other configurations. 

   Ambition and suspicion are ruling characteristics, an inordinate desire for recognition of their 
claims to superiority and advancement; also suspicion that others are trying to subvert or 
withhold the covet prize, is ever with these people. It causes them much unnecessary worry, 
and may result in habitual melancholy, particularly if Saturn is afflicted. They ought to seek 
amusement outdoors, read funny stories and otherwise try to cultivate a sense of the 
humorous from childhood, for this is one of the saddest signs, and needs all possible 
encouragement. 

   Capricorn people are successful in detective work, where secret practices are used to trap 
others. and persistence is required to ferret out a mystery, for they never give up. The afflicted 
Capricorn is very revengeful, and if by Mars, may shed blood to satisfy a grudge. The Sun 
rising brings out the Justice, Purity and Honor of the sign, makes Captains of Industry such as 
forward the great enterprises of the world.

AQUARIUS, THE WATER BEARER

   The stateliness and pride of those born under the sign of Leo are not missing in the typical 
Aquarian, but while in the Leo these qualities are of a lower, more bestial nature agreeable to 
the sign, they are manly pride and stateliness in the true Aquarian. Libra generates a beautiful 
body but more effeminate as it were, whereas the Aquarian beauty is truly manly or womanly; 
the fearless eye is kindly and drooping eyelashes are peculiar to this sign. The forehead is 
square, and the well developed poise tells of intellect, the large domed head shows the 
spiritual side of the nature and the chin is sufficiently developed to give purpose to all actions. 
Thus the typical Aquarian is the highest grade of humanity; but therefore, also exceedingly 
rare, for the variants produced in each sign from the typical, by the interposition of one or more 
planets are so different that the type is often unrecognizable in the majority of its features. 
Aquarians are most loyal to friends, therefore they attract many, keep them through life, and 
are much benefited by them. Like Capricorn, this sign is ruled by Saturn, and he gives to the 
Aquarian the same retiring nature and tendency to melancholy which marks the Capricornian, 
but also the persistence in the following a given course; and whatever financial success comes 
to these people is the result of continued and patient effort; Aquarians are very deliberate and 
long suffering; they never act in a hurry, and therefore seldom have cause to regret their 
actions, save when reason has been stilled through play upon their sympathies, for under such 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



circumstances they are readily imposed upon. the love nature is very strong, but they are not 
as demonstratives as the Leo. It is noteworthy that the qualities of opposite signs are always 
reflected; Leo in Aquarius, reflects love; Taurus mirrors the passion of Scorpio; the Gemini 
body is a reflex of the bony Sagittarius frame, etc. 

   The Sun and Saturn bring out more prominently the good traits of Aquarius; this sign, where 
Saturn rules and Libra, where he is exalted, are therefore under his most benign influence. The 
Sun in Aquarius adds much hope and life to the nature, and thus counteracts the melancholy 
trait previously mentioned.

PISCES, THE FISHES

   The typical Piscean is short, flabby and fleshy with a waddling gait not unlike those born 
under the sign Cancer, but differs from them by having a stouter body. The feet are often tuned 
in, but larger that those born under Virgo. The body is weak and deficient in recuperative force. 
The complexion is medium, the eyes blue, watery and expressionless, the nose large and flat. 

   There is a strong tendency to mediumship among the Pisces people, and therein is a danger 
greater than any other on earth. No one should "sit for development" and degenerate into the 
tool of low spirits, but Pisces people in particular are "lost" if taken control of. They cannot free 
themselves, either in this life or the next, because generally inert and devoid of willpower. They 
are timid, and even the mean are tearful on the slightest provocation; they love leisure more 
than comfort, and do no work which is not absolutely necessary to keep body and soul 
together. They love change of scene, rove about considerably, generally in an aimless 
manner. Being fond of good things to eat and drink, particularly the latter, and lacking will to 
curb their appetite when afflicted, they frequently indulge their craving to such an extent that 
they become habitual drunkards. 

   The Sun rising in Pisces gives more energy and ambition, Jupiter, the ruler, strengthens the 
morals, and Venus exalted in this sign, gives great musical talent, but accentuates the 
tendency to alcoholic indulgence, which mars the lives of so many splendid musicians. 

   When many planets are in Pisces, the person will have a hard life, because he or she will not 
want to take up life's burden, but will love to dream; such people become recluses; they seek 
to master the hidden arts, occultism and mysticism; are not guided by reason, but rather by 
their likes and dislikes, and unless they can find an occupation that is otherwise isolated from 
the ordinary business and trend of life they will feel out of place. They are prone to incur the 
enmity of people with whom they come in contact intimately, nobody seems to get along with 
them, and nearly everybody, whether he or she shows it or not, will take a dislike to them. 

   There is, however, a higher side to Pisces; the person who finds himself with Pisces on the 
ascendant is at the end of one cycle of progress and at the beginning of a new. He stands, as 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



it were, upon the threshold of something higher. Therefore, he is usually not able to live up to 
the possibilities of the sign which requires self-sacrifice and non-resistance in absolutely Christ-
like fashion. The tendency is therefore to drift upon the sea of life and dream dreams of future 
greatness. This tendency must be counteracted by every effort of the will, for otherwise life will 
be a failure, and later the stern whip of necessity will be applied to goad him or her into action. 

CHAPTER VI 

THE INTRINSIC NATURE OF THE PLANETS

   The nature of gun powder which causes it to explode under certain circumstances is neither 
good nor bad, the quality of its action being determined by the way its power is used. When it 
furthers the welfare of the community it is called good, and evil when used in a manner 
derogatory to our well being; so also with the planets, they are neither good nor evil, each 
having its intrinsic nature and acting in a manner consonant therewith save as modified by the 
circumstances under which its powers are exerted. When we know the nature of a sign and the 
nature of a planet, we may combine the two, and thus obtain the correct reading of the stellar 
script by our own reasoning instead of depending upon authorities. For instance, the Sun is 
hot, full of vital force, and exercises an influence that buoys us up in the body and spirit. When 
its rays fall upon us with moderate strength it makes us stronger and more cheerful, for there is 
an atmosphere of generosity, out-going love and kindliness in the Sun. Thus if the Sun at birth 
is in the weak sign, Cancer, naturally the effect would be to modify the weak constitution 
described in the foregoing signature of the signs; the heat of the Sun would give a more florid 
complexion to the Cancer person, the general health and recuperative powers would be 
materially augmented, not to speak of the changes that would be manifested in the disposition, 
giving more ambition, hopefulness and buoyancy to the temperament. Suppose, on the other 
hand, that the Sun is in Aries when that sign is rising at the birth of a person, then the fire of 
the Sun, added to the fire of the sign Aries, will increase the boldness and the intrepidity of the 
person to such a degree that they may become foolhardiness, particularly, if Mars, the ruler of 
Aries, is also there increasing the warlike tendencies. Those are traits of character, but the 
physical body will also suffer from this excessive hear, the blood will race through the veins of 
such a person like a Niagara of liquid fire, and fevers will be a frequent experience, as the 
superabundance of vitality burns out the physical easement. Were the cold, slow and sluggish 
Saturn there instead of the Sun and Mars, he might squelch almost all of the Aries 
characteristics both mental and physical. If we consider Aries symbolized by a stove in which a 
fire is burning, it would make the same difference whether the hot Mars, or the cold Saturn, 
were placed there, as it makes a difference whether we pour oil or water into the stove. 
Similarly, all the other planets produce various results, according to their intrinsic natures and 
their various combinations. For the sake of lucidity, and ready reference, let us first set down 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



the word which describes the most salient characteristics of each planet. 

The Sun: Life
Venus: Coalition
Mercury: Reason
The Moon: Fecundation
Saturn: Obstruction
Jupiter: Idealism
Mars: Dynamic Energy
Uranus: Altruism
Neptune: Divinity

   In the foregoing, the essential natures of the planets have been given; where they are well 
aspected by another planet these natural characteristics are enhanced so far as the benefic 
planets are concerned, but when evilly aspected, the nature of Venus, which is love and 
rhythm, becomes folly, licentiousness and sloth; the philosophy, law-abiding tendencies, mercy 
and lofty aspirations of Jupiter turn into lawlessness, disregard of others, and low pursuits; the 
lofty spirituality of the Sun will express itself as just animals spirits and physical health. In 
regard to the planets of the lower nature, good aspects of Mars turn the desires toward 
constructive objects, as well regulated activities, while evil aspects are responsible for the 
destructive expression of the desire nature. Saturn, when well aspected, gives mechanical and 
executive ability capable of directing the desire nature. It shows the brainy, persevering man 
able to cope with, and conquer, material obstacles; the organizer and the promoter; the 
scientific investigator, who follows material lines. As Jupiter, well aspected, denotes the high-
minded philosopher, the worth law-giver, the sincere and ardent priest, in fact, all who have 
high and lofty aspirations, so Saturn, when evilly aspected, denotes the evil-minded, creed-
bound sectarian, the materialist, and enemy of society, whether church or state. As Jupiter 
gives the lofty, expansive and benevolent mind, so Saturn, evilly aspected, gives a sarcastic, 
concrete and narrow tendency. 

   It is wonderful to contemplate how the planetary forces balance each other so perfectly that 
universal equilibrium is maintained despite the disturbances of the 1700 millions who inhabit 
the earth alone, not to speak of other spheres. Every moment of time our actions, individually 
and collectively, interfere with terrestrial equipoise, and were not this instantly restored, the 
earth must leave its orbit, fly off at a tangent and be destroyed. Nor are physical disturbances 
most potent in disturbing or restoring balance, it being a fallacy to confound solidity and rigidity 
with strength, as most thoroughly explained in our lecture No. 19, "The Coming Force." A train 
has no strength itself, but must be solid because it is operated upon by an invisible gas called 
steam. There is no force in a rigid hammer; but when driven by a column of flexible liquid, like 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



water, backed by an elastic cushion of compressed air, the force stored in the air, the force 
stored in the air drives the powerful hydraulic ram irresistibly through whatever comes before it. 
Likewise subtle, invisible, stellar rays are the factors which maintain our ponderous planet in its 
path, and spiritual disturbances generated by mankind are naturally the most subtle force 
which interferes with the earth's equipoise. 

   Each planet has its opposite, and therefore every time we radiate the quality of one planet, 
we call forth a counter current of corresponding force, and by the action and reaction of those 
forces in and upon us and our environment we learn the lessons of life. Do we vibrate to the 
love ray of Venus, instantly Mars comes to tempt, and tries to turn love to lust, but it depends 
upon US whether we remain steadfast in virtue or yield to vice. Do we court the ideal of 
Jupiter; do we aim to elevate the standard of church or state, instantly the Saturnine forces 
invite to self-aggrandizement and appeal to the passion for power. With US it lies to remain 
true to the ideal and reap laurels that last through eternity, or yield to the promise of present 
gain or worthless gold which we repay in sorrow when Saturn turns and becomes the 
chastiser. Each horoscope shows the tendencies in even the humblest life, and opportunity 
continually knocks. May we all be prepared to meet it as spiritual astrologers.

HOW TO TEST THE HOROSCOPE

   It sometimes happens that a momentary mental aberration causes even the best of 
mathematicians to make a mistake in his figures and if an error occurs when casting a 
horoscope an immense amount of labor may be wasted before it is discovered. There is an 
easy method of verifying the figure in the main points by a glance at the position of the Sun. 
The cautious astrologer never neglects to make use of this method, and we would specially 
recommend it to beginners who are naturally more prone to miscalculate that those who have 
long experience. 

   When you have calculated the place of the Sun and entered it in its proper house and sign, 
note at once if its position coincides with its actual place in the sky at the time of day when the 
child was born. If the birth occurred about sunrise, the Sun must be near the ascendant; if in 
the middle of the forenoon the Sun should be somewhere in the eleventh house, if near noon 
the Sun will be found near the Midheaven in a correctly cast horoscope, and in the middle of 
the afternoon it is in the eighth house. A child born near sunset has its sun close to the cusp 
between the sixth and seventh houses, and if the birth occurs about 9 p.m., the Sun will be in 
or near the fifth house. When birth is at midnight the Sun is near the nadir, and a child born 
about 3 o'clock in the morning has the Sun in or near the second house. 

   If you find that the Sun is in its proper position relative to the houses, you may confidently 
proceed with your calculations and place the other planets. If not, you have made a mistake 
which must be corrected before you go further. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   When someone hands you a horoscope calculated by another astrologer and asks you to 
read it, look first at the time of birth and then see if the Sun is in its proper position relative to 
the houses, and the right sign as determined by the month, for if you start to read from an 
improperly cast horoscope you lay yourself liable to ridicule. Suppose Saturn were on the 
ascendant and you accuse that person of being melancholy; when he denies the indications 
and you discover that Mars and Mercury should be there in Scorpio, it is not probably that he 
will accept your explanations; he will more likely sneer at astrology and astrologers; nor can we 
deny that from his point of view such condemnation is justified. Therefore be careful to look at 
the Sun. Other mistakes may occur, but that is the most serious and the most easily detected. 

   

 

●     Click here to continue.... 
●     Table of Contents 
●     Index to Natal Astrology 
●     Index to Medical Astrology 
●     Click here to return to The Rosicrucian Fellowship Home Page. 
●     Rosicrucian Fellowship Astrology Study Courses information 
●     Order the printed version of this book. 

  

Rosicrucian Fellowship - International Headquarters 
2222 Mission Avenue, Oceanside, CA 92054-2399, USA 

PO Box 713, Oceanside, CA 92049-0713, USA 
(760) 757 - 6600 

(760) 721 - 3806 (fax) 
E-mail: rosfshp@rosicrucian.com

 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



 

 

The Message of the Stars
by

Max Heindel 
and 

Augusta Foss Heindel

Click here to go back to the previous HTML page. 

CHAPTER VII

THE CHILDREN OF THE TWELVE SIGNS 
 

THE CHILDREN OF ARIES 
Born March 20th to April 21st 

Aries is the home of Mars, the planet of dynamic energy, and is also the exaltation sign of the 
life- giving Sun, hence it is a very fountain of life and vitality as manifest in the sprouting of the 
millions of seeds which break through the earth's crust at spring time and change the white 
winter garment to a flower- embroidered carpet of green, making the forests a bridal bower for 
the mating beasts and birds. 

   This great vital force also finds its expression in the children of Aries; they bubble over with 
life and energy to such an extent that it is often very difficult to curb them sufficiently to hold 
them within the bounds of safety and common sense. They are self-assertive and aggressive 
to a degree, always in the lead for they scorn to follow, turbulent and radical in all their 
thoughts, ideas and actions. They are venturesome to the verge of foolhardiness. We also find 
that they are greedy for the fruits of their labor, they never can get enough, and no matter how 
much they earn they are generally poor for they spend as freely and as thoughtlessly as they 
earn. They make splendid foremen and overseers, for, being so full of vital energy and 
ambition themselves, they have a faculty of infusing their energy into their subordinates or 
forcing them to work when necessary. But being too impulsive and reckless they lack the 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



ability to originate for themselves. They are serious and ardent in all they undertake; they 
cannot go into anything half-heartedly, and therefore, if they once espouse a cause, social, 
political or religious, they will work for that cause with all the vim and vigor of their energetic 
nature. But if on the other hand an Aries child becomes addicted to a vice the whole intensity 
of its being is turned towards the gratification of that particular part of its lower nature. 
Therefore parents with Aries children have a great responsibility to set before them by precept 
and example the noblest and best form of conduct of which they are capable, for this is 
probably the most impressive sign in the zodiac, and the habits formed, the lessons learned in 
childhood and youth will generally cling to the person through life and make him either very 
good or very bad. Be particularly careful to inculcate abstinence from alcoholic liquors, for if an 
Aries child becomes addicted to that he is beyond saving and often becomes subject to 
delirium. 

   

CHILDREN OF TAURUS 
Born April 21st to May 22nd

   On the 21st of April, the Sun enters the zodiacal sign of the Bull, thought, and remains in that 
sign until the 20th of May and therefore children born between those dates partake in a great 
measure of the characteristics of this sign. Taurus is ruled by Venus the planet of love, and 
therefore the children of thought have a basically amicable and kind disposition, but when they 
once have conceived an idea they cling to it with stubbornness, they are very resentful of 
contradiction and very difficult to convince that they have made a mistake; but when one has 
once succeeded in showing them that they are wrong their inherent love of justice and truth will 
prompt them to acknowledge their mistakes and try to rectify them. They have a very strong 
and determined will so that when they set up a goal for themselves or have made up their 
minds to do anything they usually keep on working with patience and persistence until they 
make a success of whatever they have undertaken. They also have good executive ability and 
are able to take leading positions where they have others under their command. Although they 
are amicable and agreeable when in the company of others they have a strong tendency to 
seek solitude and to become very self-centered. They seem to set up unconsciously a barrier 
between themselves and other people so that it is difficult to become intimately acquainted 
with them. Taurus children are very keen in their desires for material possessions and they are 
usually very fortunate also in acquiring them for besides having good earning power 
themselves they are often the recipients of inheritance. But they do not want wealth for the 
sake of having it as much as for the pleasure and comfort which they can get out of it; they are 
very fond of comforts and luxuries, art, music, drama and other refining influences of life. 

   The children of thought have an abundance of vitality to start with, but they are very apt to go 
to excess in work or play, waste their energy and become ill as a consequence. They are 
particularly attracted to the pleasures of the table. They revel in rich foods which later give 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



them a tendency to digestive troubles, enlargement of the liver, heart disease and congestion 
of the kidneys. These diseases are very apt to make them uncomfortable in later life, therefore 
parents should inculcate in them above all things the virtue of frugality, not only by precept, but 
by example, for these Taurus children, are very quick and they will readily see that "mother 
and father tell me to eat little but they eat all they want themselves." They should also be 
taught to take plenty of exercise as a means to promote health, for the children of thought are 
rather indolent in their manner. However, as said before, they have a most wonderful vitality 
particularly if they are born at sunrise and although they may become subject to the diseases 
mentioned they will usually have a long life and a fair measure of general good health, wealth 
and happiness. 

  

CHILDREN OF GEMINI 
Born May 22nd to June 22nd

   The children of Gemini are wonderfully quick-witted and bright; they also have the ability to 
express themselves clearly and to the point, therefore they are always good company. 
Conversation never lags when they are present, in fact they are sometimes given to 
monopolizing it entirely, but then they are often so interesting that other people are glad to 
listen. They acquire learning very rapidly and are very well informed on most subjects. They 
have a good memory so that what they have won is not lost, that is of course, provided the 
horoscope is otherwise well-aspected and configurated. Where it is seriously afflicted we find 
the faults of the Gemini pointing in the opposite directions; then they may be inveterate 
chatterboxes, shunned by everybody who can possibly get out of their way. The great point to 
remember with these children is that they have the ability of expression and a great deal may 
be done during the days of childhood to mould the character in such a way that it expresses 
itself in a manner congenial to others and to the general benefit of the child and its 
surroundings, and that will be of help to it later in life. 

   The children of Gemini are, generally speaking, of a very kind and affable disposition, easy 
to get along with. They are able to adapt themselves to other people and to circumstances so 
that they become all things to all men and in that way they usually make friends and few 
enemies. They are of a roving disposition and love to travel about from one place to another. 
They excel in scientific or clerical activities, as agents or representatives of others where their 
Mercurial talents find an avenue for expression. 

   From the moral point of view it is not good to have a flexible nature. The children of Gemini 
are only too easily made victims of flattery and therefore apt to be led unconsciously into paths 
of wrong doing. It should be the aim of the parents of these children to hold before them the 
ideal of the straight and narrow path and emphasize the idea in their minds that that is never to 
be swerved from under any consideration. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   The children of Gemini are very high-strung and nervous and therefore they are easily 
worried and irritated, which is reflected in their actions and their bodily health. On that account 
parents with children born in this month ought to be lenient with them in their flashes of temper 
for they are very quick-spoken under wrath; they need a soothing answer rather than reproof, 
in order that they may be helped to overcome while they are young and to strengthen their 
moral constitution in that respect. When the horoscope of a Gemini child is afflicted there is 
very apt to be some disorder of the lungs and Gemini children will be much helped if they are 
taught proper breathing exercises and calisthenics. It will at least minimize the tendencies and 
may entirely overcome them. Gemini children usually grow very tall and straight. They are fine-
looking people with a quick walk and brisk movements, and they may be either light or dark 
complexioned according to the placement and configuration of the planets. 

  

THE CHILDREN OF CANCER 
Born June 22nd to July 23rd

   The watery sign Cancer is one of the weakest in the zodiac so far as vitality goes and when it 
is upon the eastern angel of a person's horoscope it always gives a rather weak body; but 
usually this does not apply to the children born during the time when the Sun is in Cancer, for 
the Sun is the giver of life, and these children are therefore more fortunate with respect to 
vitality that those children who have Cancer rising. 

   The children of Cancer are usually very timid and returning, yet they want and need 
friendship and sympathy, though they are very sensitive about seeking it; but when they get 
well acquainted they can at times be very exacting with their friends, even autocratic in their 
ways of ordering them about. At the same time, it must be said they are very conscientious in 
all things entrusted to them, and use considerable discretion in whatever they do, so that one 
may safely trust them to keep a secrete or execute a commission. The sign Cancer is ruled by 
the restless Moon, and therefore changes of residence, position, vocation, and of all matters, 
are quite frequent in the lives of these children. At the same time they cannot be called fickle 
and flippant for they are very tenacious whenever they have undertaken to do a certain work or 
undertaken a certain obligation; they stay by it until it is finished. Neither do they run 
haphazard into anything; in fact, there are times when they are inclined to be too cautious. 
Especially where there is danger of injury they are almost cowards, and they are often given to 
anxiety and worry. 

  

THE CHILDREN OF LEO 
Born July 23rd to August 24th

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   The sign Leo is ruled by the life-giving Sun, and it is called the royal sign of the Zodiac; 
therefore it confers upon the children which are born under its influence a noble, ambitious and 
aspiring nature. They are of the Master breed and make good leaders but poor followers. 
Being of a noble and lofty character themselves they scorn mean and sordid things nor will 
they stoop to do a low act even under great provocation or the strong urge of self-interest. The 
love nature is very strong and ardent. No inconvenience or sacrifice is too great to serve those 
they love. They are loyal and true friends through thick and thin. Leo is a fixed sign and gives 
its children considerable will power, so that they are usually able to win their way to the top 
despite all handicaps and obstacles. They are very fixed in their opinions and if they espouse 
any cause they will usually stay by it and work for it in a most enthusiastic manner. They never 
do anything half-heartedly, for Leo being a fiery sign endows them with power, vitality and 
enthusiasm. Leo also gives it children a good memory. The foregoing tendencies are indicated 
when the Sun is fairly well aspected in the horoscope; but if it is afflicted by Mars, or any of the 
malefics, the nature is changed, so that the person becomes bombastic, blustering and 
domineering, one not to be trusted in any department of life, and an unfaithful, amorous 
husband or wife, or a disloyal friend, one who will not hesitate to stoop to any meanness. He is 
then just as bad as the Leo with the well aspected Sun is good, this on the principle that the 
brightest light always casts the deepest shadow. The principal fault of the Leos is a quick 
temper, but they do not hold spite, and when shown to have been wrong they are always ready 
to apologize and make amends. They are magnanimous, even to their bitterest enemies. 

  

THE CHILDREN OF VIRGO 
Born August 24th to September 23rd

   Virgo, the Sixth sign of the zodiac, is ruled by Mercury, the planet of reason, expression and 
dexterity. It is said, and with considerable truth, that love is blind, for were one to see faults in 
the beloved one the master passion never would find expression. Therefore the children of 
Virgo who are governed so much by intellect are not sympathetic, but inclined to be cynical, 
critical and skeptical of anything that is not scientifically demonstrable to the reason and 
senses. They are very quick mentally, though only too often included to "strain at a gnat," and 
though they seldom "swallow the camel," they get into a rut where they become narrow-
minded and bigoted. They are rather lazy themselves and found of taking things easy, but they 
like to drive others, and can be very masterful with subordinates. On that account they often 
cause enmities of a lasting nature, but whenever they become friendly with any one they also 
make very good friends and treat their friends well. The Mercurial disposition infused by this 
sign brings many changes of environment and therefore new associations and friendships are 
constantly being formed. They are very acquisitive and always looking out for ways and means 
of bettering themselves financially, socially and economically. It may also be said that they 
deserve promotion for they are industrious to a degree where they see that a reward may be 
gained thereby. They are also very ingenious and versatile, fond of the study of science, 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



particularly chemistry, diet and hygiene, and many among them become extreme food 
faddists. As Virgo is the Sixth sign these people take on Sixth house characteristics and are 
therefore very sensitive to suggestions of ill health, so that if they ever become enmeshed in 
the tentacles of diseases they frequently lack the necessary will power to extricate themselves 
with the result that they then usually become chronic invalids or perhaps rather they think 
themselves so, for it may be said that these people seem to resent any effort to cheer them up 
and get them out of the clutches of their particular illness, real or fancied. They seem in fact to 
enjoy bad health, and they are always looking for sympathy, though as we noted in the 
beginning of this reading, they are very slow to grant the same to others. If they can keep out 
of the clutches of disease, they often become excellent nurses and have a splendid influence 
upon the sick. 

  

THE CHILDREN OF LIBRA 
Born September 23rd to October 24th

   Libra is the seventh sign of the zodiac. The children which are born under this sign are ruled 
by the planet of love, Venus. The symbol of Libra in the pictorial zodiac is a pair of scales and 
this instrument describes graphically their principal characteristic. The children of Libra are 
very ardent in anything they do; they take up a vocation or an avocation with a zeal and 
enthusiasm which for the time being excludes all other things form their consideration, but after 
a while they may drop it just as suddenly, take up something else as a trade, a fad or a hobby, 
and pursue that with an equal energy and absorbing interest. This is in fact one of their 
principal faults, as they find it very difficult to settle down to anything definite, and continue it 
with patience and persistence until they have achieved success. 

   Libra is the sign where the Sun changes from the northern to the southern hemisphere; it 
crosses the equator there, and consequently the Sun is very weak at that point. It is the great 
life-giver going down into the dark winter months, and therefore Saturn, the planet of darkness, 
is exalted in Libra. Thus we find two natures very markedly expressed in children that are born 
under this sign; one is of the Sun which is cheerful and optimistic, the other is that of Saturn, 
which is morose and melancholy. And this expresses itself in the changeable nature of the 
Libra children; sometimes they are up in the seventh heaven, optimistic and enthusiastic, 
cheerful and happy, then as suddenly and without any seeming cause the scale swings and 
they seem to be down in the dumps of worry and melancholy just as if they had not a friend in 
the world. As a matter of fact they make many friends for they have a basically kind disposition 
engendered by the Lady of Libra, Venus, but they also have a quick temper, though fortunately 
they do not hold spite. They are exceedingly fond of pleasures in general and particularly lean 
toward art and music. 

  

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



THE CHILDREN OF SCORPIO 
Born October 24th to November 23rd

   Scorpio is ruled by Mars, the planet of dynamic energy, and therefore the children born 
during that month when the Sun is passing through this sign are filled with a force that must 
have an outlet somewhere or somehow. They partake in all the Martial qualities, either good or 
bad, according to the way the Sun is placed and aspected, and they are always ready to take 
up an argument or a fight; either on their own behalf or for someone else; they are never 
content with half measures, either they go to one extreme or the other, good or bad. Those 
who show the good side of Scorpio have splendid constructive and executive abilities. They 
are brusque but honest and just, indefatigable workers, and always ready to sacrifice 
themselves for the good of others by rebelling against oppression or in other ways unselfishly 
working for the cause they have espoused. But those who show the bad side of Scorpio not 
only refuse to work themselves but become demagogues who incite others to anarchy and 
lawlessness and destruction. These people are social fire-brands and very dangerous to the 
community. But here is one redeeming feature about them and that is that they are not 
underhanded; whatever they do is open and aboveboard. The children of Scorpio usually have 
a very uncertain temper and a sarcastic tongue that bites like the sting of the scorpion, when 
the turn that side of their nature. Therefore the parents of these children should take them in 
hand as early as possible and teach them self-control by every means within their power; also 
strive to soften the Mars ray and instill into them a more kindly spirit. This may be very difficult 
because the sign Scorpio gives a very determined nature, still, in childhood's years it is plastic 
to a certain extent and can be best worked upon then. They have a very strong and vivid 
imagination, with a clear, sharp and penetrating mind, also a personal magnetism that makes 
them very attractive to those with whom they come in contact. They seem to be most 
contented in military life where there is sharp and strict discipline. Particular care should be 
taken to teach these children sex hygiene, for the sign Scorpio rules the generative and 
eliminative organs, whose functions are stimulated by the presence of the Sun in Scorpio, so 
that if the person is not morally and physically clean, much trouble may be expected. These 
children also make excellent surgeons and if they are taught to use surgery only for 
constructive purposes they can do a great deal of good in the world. All this depends in a 
considerable measure upon the early training, for there is a destructive side to the Scorpio 
nature which would make it very dangerous from the spiritual viewpoint for such a person to 
take up a vocation that offers scope for malpractice; he would then contract a very heavy debt 
under the law of consequence, which must be paid in sorrow and suffering either in this or later 
lives. 

  

THE CHILDREN OF SAGITTARIUS 
Born November 23rd to December 22nd

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   Sagittarius is ruled by Jupiter, the great benefic planet, and it may be said generally that 
those who are born while the Sun is in this sign from November 23rd to December 22nd are 
well liked in the society where they move. They are of a hearty and jovial disposition, princes 
among men, hail-fellows-well-met, and their acquaintances are generally glad to see them. 
There are two very distinct classes born under this sign In the pictorial zodiac, Sagittarius is 
represented as a centaur, half horse and half man, and one class of those who come to birth 
under its influence are well described by the animal part thereof, for they are of a sporty 
nature, ready to gamble on the speed of a horse at long odds or to stake their last dollar on a 
game of cards. They are fond of a "good time right straight through" and their moral nature is 
of low grade, aptly described by the animal part of the symbol, so that they have no scruples 
with respect to the indulgence of their appetites, passions and desires. They are lacking in 
respect for both law and ordinary morals, hence they are often found among the criminal class. 
But those children of Sagittarius symbolized by the human part of the centaur, aiming the bow 
of aspiration at the stars, are as different from the above as day is from night, for they are 
extremely idealistic, moral law-abiding, noble characters who win the respect of society in 
general and particularly of all with whom they come into intimate contact. Therefore they 
become in time the pillars of society and often receive positions of honor and preferment in 
State or Church as judges or divines. They are very orthodox and conservative in their 
opinions and punctilious to a fault in their observance of all customs and traditions of the times 
wherein they live, but they are not progressive, for they value the opinions of their 
contemporaries very highly and are seldom induced to espouse any progressive ideas which 
might jeopardize the respect of the community enjoyed by them. They are firm believers in the 
necessity of red tape. Withal, however, they are charitable and benevolent, tender and 
sympathetic; they can always be relied upon to aid any altruistic movement, and through they 
are of a kindly nature and endeavor to avoid quarrels in their own behalf, they sometimes fight 
with great zeal and courage for others who have been injured and in whose behalf their 
sympathies have been enlisted, hence they make admirable lawyers. 

   The Sagittarius are usually excellent conversationalists; they have quick and ready wit and 
are fond of indulging in oratory. Their exhibitions of memory and interesting way of relating 
experiences always hold the audience. They are very proud and have great confidence in 
themselves. 

  

THE CHILDREN OF CAPRICORN 
Born December 22nd to January 20th

   Capricorn is ruled by Saturn, the planet of obstruction, therefore the vitality of these children 
is very low and they are difficult to raise, but once infancy is passed the Saturnine persistence 
makes itself felt and they cling to life with an amazing tenacity so that they often become very 
old. They are very much subject to colds and their principal source of danger is falls and 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



bruises. The children of Capricorn are usually bashful and timid in the presence of strangers 
but when they have become used to people they show their domineering nature and endeavor 
to make everybody around them conform to their will. The Saturnine quality of the sign makes 
them jealous and suspicious of the motives of others. Therefore they are very fond of detective 
work. They will follow a trail with unerring instinct and unwavering perseverance that never 
gives up as long as there is the remotest chance of success. It is good to be friends with 
Capricornians and bad to make enemies of them, for they find it very hard to forgive a real or 
fancied offense or injury and always brood over any wrong done to them. On the other hand, if 
they once give their confidence or friendship they are also consistent in that direction. They are 
very ambitious by other people and they have splendid executive ability because of the 
unusual qualities of forethought and concentration conferred by Saturn. They are born leaders 
and organizers but change under restrictions and dislike particularly to take orders from others. 
When they are placed in such a subordinate position and cannot have their way they become 
gloomy, taciturn, moody, pessimistic, irritable, and given to worry. The children of Capricorn 
usually have a disinclination for marriage and are seldom at ease if they enter into that state. 
The union is usually childless or children are few. 

  

THE CHILDREN OF AQUARIUS 
Born January 20th to February 19th

   The children of Aquarius are of a rather shy, retiring nature. They like to keep their own 
company and counsel more than is good for them, for if this bent in the nature is allowed full 
scope, it has a tendency to breed melancholy and make them recluses. They have a quiet, 
unassuming manner which gains many friends for them and their home life is usually ideal. 
they are generally affectionate and of a very sweet and kind disposition; they are always ready 
to defer to the opinion of a loved one and ready to yield a point for the sake of harmony. 
Besides, Aquarius being a fixed sign they are very constant in their affection as well as in other 
things. 

   Aquarius is an intellectual sign and its children usually have a good mentality, because the 
Saturnine rulership gives depth to the mind, and the Uranian ray gives them intuition and an 
inclination towards science, literature and philosophy. They are remarkably persistent in 
whatever they undertake, and therefore usually succeed in the long run. As Aquarius is the 
11th sign it partakes also of the qualities ruled by the 11th House; therefore the children of 
Aquarius are usually well liked among their associates and have many friends. The children of 
Aquarius are very proud and jealous of the esteem of others. Their principal fault is that on 
account of Saturnine traits they are somewhat given to worry. As with the Leos, they are strong 
in their likes and dislikes; they will do anything for those who have won their affection, but 
resent any attempt to drive them, and under such conditions are extremely stubborn; in fact 
they are very set in their mental attitude, and once an opinion has been formed it is not easily 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



changed. They are so very sensitive to the mental conditions around them that it affects their 
physical well being perhaps more than they are aware of for this is one of the most sensitive 
signs. 

  

THE CHILDREN OF PISCES 
Born February 20th to March 20th

   The children of Pisces are of a marked negative disposition, subject to varying moods, and 
are, like the children of Aquarius, very sensitive to the mental atmosphere in their environment. 
For that reason it is of the greatest importance that parents of these children should guard 
them during childhood against the influences of bad companions, for the old proverb about 
"bad company corrupting good manners" applies with ten-fold strength to these children, and 
they will absorb good or evil with equal facility. So until they have learned to choose for 
themselves the good things, it is especially necessary for their natural guardians to shield 
them. They also have a strong tendency to mediumship and if they are taken into seances 
there is a great danger that they may become controlled. Moreover, having such an extremely 
flexible nature they can never exert sufficient will power to free themselves from the influence 
when once they have been subjected to it, and it may ruin their whole life. 

   These children are very peaceable in disposition and suffer injury rather than fight for their 
rights, not because they do not care, for they are very jealous especially when born in the latter 
part of the sign, but because the Piscean nature is averse to exertion, and generally they do 
not want to take the trouble to fight for their rights. In plain English they are lazy. Therefore the 
parents should see that a certain amount of work is allotted to them during the earliest years, 
for it is then that the habits are formed and the nature is the most plastic. They can learn to be 
diligent with must less effort at that time than during the later stages of life. But once the 
children of Pisces have commenced doing a piece of work it will probably be a surprise to 
others to watch them and see the methodical way they go at it, making every move count until 
the task has been completed with seemingly very little effort on their part. Honesty is another 
of the virtues of the Pisces children; they are usually dependable and close-mouthed, so that 
they may be trusted with secrets in full confidence that they will not betray the trust. 

   The children of Pisces are generally kind and sympathetic, cordial and suave in manner, 
qualities which will of course bring them many friends. They are notoriously fond of good things 
to eat, they revel in rich goods, and are also prone to be fond of drink. If these tendencies are 
allowed to work themselves out they will of course ruin the life, and besides bring on a train of 
disease. Therefore the parents of these children should endeavor by precept and example to 
teach them the simple life, frugality and control of the appetite during the years when habits 
are formed, besides guarding them against too strenuous exercise which even the children of 
Pisces will not shun in childhood when the abundance of life force impels them. Then later in 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



life these lessons will not be without their fruit. The changes are that the child which by the 
help of the parent has learned in childhood to rules its stars will be both healthy and hearty, 
respected and loved because of good habits, and will fully enjoy life. In short, these children 
need a very careful bringing up to save them from their evil tendencies and bring out the good, 
but that is just what such souls come to parents for. Their necessity is the parent's opportunity 
to make great and wonderful soul growth. 

  

CHAPTER VIII

THE SUN, GIVER OF LIFE

The Sun, being the center of the solar system, is recognized by all as the physical life-giver 
even when they do not believe in anything superphysical; it is patent to everyone from 
personal observation that the horizontal ray of the morning sun affects us differently from the 
perpendicular noon ray, and that in summer the rays carry a life-force which not only brings 
forth the verdure upon the fields, but also affects the human temperament, and endows us with 
vital energy, courage and a hopeful spirit foreign to the dark and gloomy winter months. This 
gloom is permanently noticeable in the temperament of people living in the far north, where the 
absence of sunlight makes life a struggle that saps the spirit of frolic, while in countries where 
abundance of sunlight lessens the cares of existence, the temperament is correspondingly 
vivacious and hopeful and sunny. 

   In the horoscope, the angel of each planetary ray at birth determines the department of life it 
will affect. If the child is born at the noon hour when the sun is at the Zenith, the daystar will 
appear in the 10th house of the horoscope and bring preferment professionally. If the child 
were born at midnight when the sun is directly under the place of birth its influence would be 
through the Fourth House, and it would brighten the old age of the child then born. 

   There are three unfortunate angels for the sun; Children born shortly after sunset have it in 
the Sixth House, which indicates sickness, and as the Sun is life-giver this position lessens the 
vitality and recuperative powers. Birth in the middle part of the afternoon places the Sun in the 
Eighth House. This is the house through which the death-dealing forces act, and logically, the 
Lord of Life is out of place in the House of Death. The Second House shows what income we 
obtain by our own efforts, and as the Eighth House is opposite the Second it reveals the 
sources of revenue for which we do not personally exert ourselves, that is to say, legacies, 
pensions or grants of a public nature. We have known people with the Sun in the Eighth House 
to acquire vast sums, millions in one case, by speculation in municipal necessities. Such 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



persons are often threatened by death and sometimes have many hairbreadth escapes, but 
even with the best of aspects to the Sun, a ripe age is seldom attained. 

   When a child is born shortly after sunrise the Sun is in the Twelfth House, which is the 
avenue whence we reap our sorrows, and it has been our experience that the early life of such 
a person is encompassed by trouble of one kind or another. 

   When the ascendant of a person is in doubt and the place in the Zodiac which seems to fit 
nearest brings the Sun into the Twelfth House, the writer has often found that the exact 
ascendant may be ascertained by asking the person if his childhood's life was clouded by 
poverty of the parents and consequent limitation for a number of years just after birth. This in 
all the cases where it has been found that all other events fitted in the horoscope proved a 
successful method of determining the true ascendant, so that the number of degrees from the 
ascendant to the Sun, the latter located in the Twelfth House, would indicate the years of 
poverty, for the Twelfth House makes for limitation in that respect, especially when the Sun is 
there at birth. When the Sun by progression has passed through the Twelfth House and comes 
into the ascendant, things begin to brighten for the person involved, and when in time it passes 
through the Second House he will have a period of financial success; but as stated the Sun in 
the Twelfth House, just above the ascendant, usually makes a very poor home for the child 
during the early years of life. If Pisces is there the cause will generally be found in slothfulness 
and a desire for drink on the part of the parents, which make them thus neglect their offspring. 

   The qualities imparted by a well placed Sun are dignity, strength of will and courage, both 
physical and moral, a lofty pride and a keen sense of honor and responsibility which make a 
person eminently reliable, a sterling honesty and a hatred of anything small, underhanded or 
tricky. It makes him steadfast in love, staunch in friendship and generous even to enemies. A 
dignified, exalted or well placed Sun brings friendship from people in a position to bestow 
substantial favors and aids the person materially in his endeavors to advance in life. 

   When the Sun is afflicted and weak by sign and position the opposite qualities are 
manifested; bombastic self-assurance, and bluster, love of adulation and a desire to rule or 
ruin, but no courage to face opposition; indulgence of the lower nature and a waste of the vital 
force with a consequent loss of health and strength. When the Sun is weak the person is not to 
be depended on; he regards his promises as pie-crusts, made to be broken, and because of 
these traits such people always remain in obscurity. 

   In the world at large the Sun signifies employers and those in immediate authority over the 
person, such as judges and other government officers, and when the exigencies of life bring a 
person in contact with them he will receive at their hands whatever treatment is merited by his 
Sun. 

   The Sun being masculine is significator of the marriage partner in a woman's horoscope (and 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



the feminine Moon serves a similar purpose in a man's figure), hence a well placed Sun is one 
of the indications that a man will make a good husband, and an unaspected, weak of afflicted 
Sun gives him a tendency to neglect his hearth and home. 

   As a general significator of health the Sun rules principally in masculine figures (and the 
Moon in feminine horoscopes), but both lights are important. It may be said however, that the 
health of a man is not so much endangered by afflictions of the Moon as by a weak Sun, and 
vice versa, a woman suffers more if her Moon is afflicted than if her Sun is evilly aspected. 

  

THE SUN IN THE TWELVE HOUSES 
THE SUN IN THE FIRST HOUSE

   The Sun is the source of vitality. The First House signifies are constitutional condition and 
the home of our childhood, hence the Sun well aspected in the First House adds to the vitality 
of the rising sign and augments the recuperative powers. It brightens life during the days of 
childhood and stabilizes the nature, making the person more cheerful and companionable, 
ambitious to succeed in life, courageous in overcoming obstacles. The outlook on life is joyful 
and optimistic, hence the chances of success are increased. People with the Sun in this 
position love to lead and exercise authority over others; they are very jealous of the esteem of 
the community, upright and honest in their dealings. 

   When the Sun is afflicted in the First House it lowers the vitality, makes the person timid and 
vacillating, lacking in courage and ambition; hence the chances of a successful life are slim 
unless many aspects are good, thus modifying this condition. 

  

THE SUN IN THE SECOND HOUSE

   This shows the person will find favor with people in a position to further his material 
prosperity and will be their help gain a comfortable living, but it also gives a tendency to 
squander money on the principle that "what comes easy goes easy." Unless this trait be 
curbed it may bring about financial stringency, for it is not so much what we earn that counts 
as what we spend. We shall be poor with an income of a million if we spend two. 

  

THE SUN IN THE THIRD HOUSE

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   This favors travel and makes the person bright and observing, eager to investigate 
conditions and things, for it imparts a scientific turn to the mind. It is a good position for writers 
as it helps to bring them to public notice and favor. 

  

THE SUN IN THE FOURTH HOUSE

   In one sense this is very unfortunate position because it deprives the person of the help of 
the solar influence during the major portion of life, which is on that account a constant uphill 
struggle, but as the Fourth House rules the latter part of life it is always a consolation to know 
that the declining years will be brightened by the Sun of success. That should make the 
burdens lighter to bear. 

  

THE SUN IN THE FIFTH HOUSE

   The Fifth House rules courtship; children, pleasure, education and publications; when the 
Sun is there it favors all these except children. It makes the person a favorite with the opposite 
sex, gives him much enjoyment of life, also success as a teacher, publisher or editor, but 
strangely enough, though the Sun rules the heart whence spring our children, his position in 
the Fifth House is distinctly unfavorable for their begetting. This is especially so if the fiery Fifth 
sign Leo is on the cusp. Then the fervent heat of passion seems to scorch the human plant ere 
it has time to grow. This tendency is modified to some extent when a watery sign is on the 
cusp, but when one of the partners has the Sun in the Fifth House the offspring are never 
numerous. 

  

THE SUN IN THE SIXTH HOUSE

   Seeing that the Sun is the Giver of Life it is evident that when it is confined in the Sixth 
House it is debilitated and the vital flow is obstructed; therefore people who have the Sun in 
that position are particularly liable to disease and slow to recuperate. On that account their 
diseases are frequent and long-drawn-out to an extent which often amounts to chronic 
invalidism. 

   If the person is an employee of someone else he will be efficient in his work; he will have no 
difficulty in obtaining well-paid positions but he will be very touchy towards his employers and 
make frequent changes under the pretext that his abilities are not sufficiently appreciated. If he 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



is an employer, this position of the Sun is good for success in business, but indicates trouble 
with servants, who will be domineering. 

   If the configurations in the horoscope enable the person to shake off the grip of sickness the 
Sun in the Sixth House gives great ability in chemistry, preparation of health-food, and makes 
the person a capable nurse or healer. 

  

THE SUN IN THE SEVENTH HOUSE

   Partnerships are often unsuccessful because of the selfishness of the participants but he 
who has the Sun in the Seventh House will have no reason to complain in that respect for he 
will always attract someone with a high sense of honor when in need of a partner, and as 
marriage is the most intimate of all partnerships, the Sun in the Seventh House is a particularly 
fortunate position in that respect, because it will bring the person a mate who is absolutely 
steadfast and true, one who may indeed be depended upon as a helpmeet in all the exigencies 
and vicissitudes of life till death do part. As there is no earthly treasure equal to such an 
enduring love this is perhaps the best of all solar positions. 

   Should the person be unfortunate enough to become involved in litigation the Sun in the 
Seventh House promotes the favor of the judge and a successful outcome. 

  

THE SUN IN THE EIGHTH HOUSE

   The Eighth House is the angle of incidence through which the death dealing forces act, and 
as the Sun is the giver of life it is evident that this position is extremely detrimental as far as 
vitality is concerned, and it often brings a promising life to an early termination. It also often 
happens that when genius has gone begging all through life and passed the portal of death in 
obscurity it gains belated recognition, fame and immortality through this position of the Sun. 

   As the Second House signifies the financial condition of the person and shows what he does 
with the money he earns, so the Eighth shows what comes to him apart from his own efforts, 
that is to say, inheritances, the wealth of the marriage partner, etc. Therefore the Sun in the 
Eighth House shows an increase of wealth after marriage but also a tendency of the mate to 
be over-generous and squander the means. 

  

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



THE SUN IN THE NINTH HOUSE

   This position brightens the mind and imbues the person with high ideals and lofty ambitions. 
It makes him generously tolerant of other people's opinions--noble and kind-hearted. There is 
an inner urge to solve problems of life and learn the "whys" and "wherefores," hence the mind 
turns naturally toward philosophy, religion and law. And as we always excel in the things we 
love, people with the Sun in the Ninth House make excellent statesmen, lawyers and ministers 
of God. They shine in all intellectual and scientific pursuits. Their mission often takes them into 
foreign lands. 

  

THE SUN IN THE TENTH HOUSE

   This is one of the surest signs of general success in life. The person rises by the favor of 
those above him in the social scale and obtains positions of responsibility and trust. He is 
much respected in the community and often honored by election to public office, and he may 
always be depended upon to justify the trust reposed in him. 

  

THE SUN IN THE ELEVENTH HOUSE

   This is a good sign that the hopes, wishes and aspirations of the person will be realized; it 
attracts people in a position to befriend him and with an inclination to do so. 

  

THE SUN IN THE TWELFTH HOUSE

   This is the signature of the lonely soul who as a recluse shuts himself off from his fellows. It 
brings with it a danger of conflict with the authorities or an inability to fit in with the family 
conditions and on account of the ensuing trouble the person goes into voluntary or enforced 
exile, living his life henceforth a stranger among strangers. Even when such extreme 
conditions do not prevail, the first third of the life is usually wasted in vain efforts to find a 
balance and settle down to some life work. 

   Like the Sixth House position of the Sun, this also favors work with the sick in hospitals, 
chemistry and laboratory work, or work with prisoners; it gives a love of the occult and leads to 
curious lines of research. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   

THE SUN IN THE TWELVE SIGNS 
 

THE SUN IN ARIES

   Aries is the exaltation-sign of the Sun and hence this is the most powerful position of the 
central orb. There it radiates a vital force of unexampled strength which gives to the person a 
wonderful fund of energy wherewith to withstand the onslaughts of disease and should be 
taken ill his powers of recuperation will quickly free him from the clutches of sickness. People 
having this position are principally liable to fevers on account of the fervent heat of the Sun in 
Aries. As Aries rules the head the excessive heat often dries up the scalp so that the hair 
cannot grow and the person becomes bald. 

  

THE SUN IN TAURUS

   A favorable position for the financial fortunes but it also gives a tendency to extravagance, 
especially in dress, and makes the person extremely fond of the opposite sex, sometimes with 
detrimental results. It gives great physical strength and the person loves to show off that 
people may admire his prowess. Taurus rules the larynx and therefore the Sun in Taurus adds 
strength to the vocal organs and gives the person a strong, pleasant voice. 

  

THE SUN IN GEMINI

   Gemini is a Mercurial sign and third in the gamut, hence this position gives a blended 
influence of the Sun, Mercury and the Third House. This favors expression of Mercury for it is 
the planet which stirs the vocal chords and produces sound in the Taurean larynx; it also 
favors writings and travel; the mind is brightened by the Sun in Gemini and when it is 
necessary or expedient to travel the person gains thereby physically and mentally. It gives a 
pleasant, affable disposition which makes him generally liked among his associates. 

  

THE SUN IN CANCER

   Cancer is the fourth sign and is ruled by the Moon, hence, the Sun in Cancer is a mixture of 
the Sun, Moon and fourth House influences. In the natural horoscope (where Aries is on the 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



Ascendant) Cancer is at the nadir, and with the Sun here, vitality is at its lowest ebb; therefore 
with this position one is apt to be indolent even when not sickly at all. He is harmless and 
avoids quarrels, hence is harmonious and agreeable in the home so long as he is not asked to 
work too hard. This position of the Sun makes the first part of the life barren of fruits but brings 
success in the later years. Cancer is a psychic sign and therefore the Sun in Cancer gives a 
tendency toward the occult, often with psychic experiences. 

  

THE SUN IN LEO

   The Sun in Leo gives a masterful nature with a large measure of self-control, a keen sense 
of honor and a never-failing integrity. The person aspires to rule others but would scorn to take 
a mean advantage or to do anything to others that would not be in strict accord with the golden 
rule; the affections are deep and lasting. People with the Sun in Leo are staunch defenders of 
those they love, but equally strong in their aversions. Leo is the sign which rules the heart. 
Whatever people with the Sun in Leo do is done with a concentration of purpose which 
compels success. They make true friends and if one must have an enemy, a Leo will prove 
more honorable and magnanimous than any other. 

  

THE SUN IN VIRGO

   This is combination of the solar, mercurial and Sixth House influences. It shows the 
successful middleman between the producer and consumer, subtle, extremely quick to see 
what will work to his advantage in the promotion of business, pleasant and sociable, agreeable 
to all from whom he expects to gain, but domineering to employees and fellow workers; a 
smooth talker but not necessarily insincere; he merely looks out for number one. 

   The Sun in Virgo makes good chemists, nurses and doctors, not surgeons but drug-doctors; 
they are firm believers in medicine and lots of it. 

  

THE SUN IN LIBRA

   Libra is ruled by Venus and is the seventh sign, hence the Sun in Libra combines the 
influence of Venus with that of the Sun and the Seventh house, with the result that the person 
loves the marriage partner so devotedly that he excludes everyone else; for of a person with 
that position it may truly be said that "the Sun rises and sets" in the marriage partner. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   Libra is also the exaltation sign of Saturn, and his influence is there at its best, giving an 
element of construction to the art of Venus. This is brought about as ability for architecture and 
the finer branches of decorative construction when the Sun is in Libra. This position also gives 
a fine, sonorous voice and vocal talent. 

  

THE SUN IN SCORPIO

   The Sun in Scorpio, when well aspected, gives great energy, courage and independence. It 
makes the mind active, and favors success in such occupations as those of the surgeon or 
soldier. It also tends to improve the finances after marriage, but tends to extravagance. 

   The Sun here afflicted gives the person a very blunt, brusque manner, a feeling that his 
judgment is better than that of others, and a tendency to ride rough-shod over anybody or 
anything that stands in his way. It often makes him indifferent to suffering, and may transform 
the surgeon into a vivisectionist. 

  

THE SUN IN SAGITTARIUS

   This gives lofty ideas and a noble aspiring disposition aiming to rise by raising others. It 
makes the person benevolent, philanthropic and therefore beloved among his associates. He 
is often the recipient of honors and appointments to positions of trust, and missions of a 
delicate nature, not could a better selection be made, for such people are the souls of honor. 
This position will also bring success in religion, law and statesmanship for it gives an 
expansive mind fitted to grapple with the greater problems of life. 

  

THE SUN IN CAPRICORN

   This is a good sign that the person will rise in life by the aid of the good-will of people in a 
higher position than himself; it shows that he will merit their trust and acquit himself well in a 
position of responsibility and trust; it makes him careful, prudent, faithful and honest. Judges 
with that position cannot be bought but will administer justice as they see it, to all comers. It 
gives an all round love of fair play and wins for those who have it the respect and esteem of all 
in their circle. 

  

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



THE SUN IN AQUARIUS

   This is a combination of the Sun, Uranus and the Eleventh House influences. It gives the 
person an intuitive perception of the inner nature of things and a touch with the forces and 
ideas of the spiritual realms which leads him to take up when possible, new and advanced 
cults, or methods of healing such as Naturopathy, Electro-therapy, Astro-therapy, Magnetic 
Haling, etc. He is also drawn to scientific research and ultra-intellectual or strange religions. 
This position gives much popularity and firm friends among people who are in a position to 
bestow favors and further the person's attainment of his ambitions. 

  

THE SUN IN PISCES

   Gives a retiring disposition and favors success in occupations removed from the public gaze 
such as prisons, hospitals, institutions for the poor, etc. If the person incur enmity of others, he 
will be vindicated whatever they may do to hurt his reputation. People with the Sun in Pisces 
have a strong tendency towards psychism, mediumship and the occult in general. 

  

THE SUN IN ASPECT WITH OTHER PLANETS

   Venus parallel or in conjunction with the Sun calls out the artistic side of the nature, 
making the person fond of music, art and poetry; it strengthens the love nature and if the 
configuration occurs in the Seventh House it is a positive testimony of unalloyed marital bliss. 
In the Second or Eight House it leads to extravagance of the person or his mate; in Scorpio it 
is not good for the morals and in Pisces it leads to intemperance. These aspects strengthen 
the constitution, increase the popularity and make social intercourse smooth so that the person 
has many friends and keeps them. 

   As the orbit of Venus is so small she never forms the sextile, trine, square or opposition to 
the Sun. 

   Mercury parallel or in conjunction with the Sun. These are the only aspects formed 
between the two. They are good for the memory and mentality if Mercury is not closer to the 
Sun that three degrees, for then he is 'Combust' and his good qualities are burned up in the 
Sun's rays. It is most fortunate to have Mercury rise before the Sun at birth for he is the 
Lightbearer who holds the torch of reason before the Spirit which in the horoscope is 
symbolized by the Sun. When he rises after the Sun the mentality is not nearly so keen (unless 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



other good aspects favor). 

   The Moon parallel or in conjunction with Sun. No matter in what sign or house the 
conjunction of the Lights occurs the person will be so strongly marked with the characteristics 
of that sign that lacking knowledge of this true Ascendant even the most competent astrologer 
is likely to be misled and judge him to be born with the sign rising in which the conjunction took 
place, and whatever matters are ruled by the House in which conjunction occurs will play a 
very important part in the life. In the First House he is an out and out egotist with very little love 
for others save in so far as they serve his ends; in the Seventh, his world pivots on the mate; in 
the Tenth House or sign he will sacrifice all other considerations to rise in public life; in the 
Twelfth House or sign the conjunction will give a strong tendency to drink, bringing trouble; in 
the Third and Ninth Houses it will brighten the mind and induce travel from which he will 
benefit; in the Second House it will bring wealth, especially if in good aspect with Jupiter. 

   But if the conjunction of the Sun and Moon is closer than three degrees it has a tendency to 
deplete the vitality and if the conjunction is also a solar eclipse, and the child survives, this will 
be particularly noticeable, all through life. People who have such close conjunctions or eclipses 
become listless, dis-spirited and out of sorts every time there is a new Moon. The conjunction 
or eclipse does not seem to interfere with the good effects in other departments of life. 

  The Moon sextile or trine to the Sun. The good aspects of the Sun and Moon make for 
general success in life, health, fair financial conditions, good home surroundings with faithful 
friends, and esteem in the community; they favor a rise in life because of the person's innate 
ability, which either gains for him the recognition of people in a position to help him rise, or 
impels him to carve his own way. 

  The Moon square or opposition to Sun makes the person vacillating and unsettled in 
disposition, changeable and unable to pursue a settled course in life, rash to plunge into 
enterprises, but lacking the persistence or continuity of purpose to carry anything to a 
successful conclusion. For that reason such people become failures in life, especially in their 
dealings with women and people higher in the social scale such as employers, the authorities, 
judges, etc. They always have difficulty in obtaining employment and keeping their positions 
when they obtain them for they are hyper-sensitive and ready to take offense, with or without 
provocation. These configurations also affect the health, rendering the body liable to colds and 
making recuperation slow when sickness has overtaken the person. 

  Saturn sextile or trine to Sun endows the person who is fortunate enough to so have it with 
some of the finest faculties in the gamut, for it brings out the best qualities in the two planets. It 
gives method, foresight and organizing, executive and diplomatic ability with the moral stamina 
to carry any project determined on to a successful conclusion despite delays and obstacles. 
Yet the person makes no enemies in so doing, for this configuration also makes him the soul of 
honor, kind and considerate; he would never stoop to do anything mean for he is very sincere 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



and just in his dealings with all men, but on the other hand, when he believes a certain course 
of action to be right, he will never swerve therefrom through heaven and earth be moved 
against him. These aspects bring success in political or judicial positions also in connection 
with mining or agriculture. The person often benefits by legacy, but recognition and success 
are generally delayed till middle life. 

  Saturn parallel, conjunction, square or opposition to the Sun has a very detrimental 
effect where the resistance is fundamentally low; in Gemini and Sagittarius it gives a tendency 
to tuberculosis. It does least damage in the fixed signs where resistance is greatest, but even 
there when sickness gets a grip on the person it hangs on like grim death, for it lessens the 
power of the body to throw off disease quickly, hence recuperation is very slow. 

   These aspects are extremely adverse to that which is generally termed success, but they 
give an abundance of experience, so they are excellent from the standpoint of the soul. It may 
be truly said of the person who has them, that "the best-laid plans of mice and men gang aft 
agley," for no matter how carefully he may plan his affairs he will be subject to delays and 
obstacles which thwart his desires. His marriage is unhappy and is likely to end in divorce or 
early death of the partner. He had difficulty in finding and keeping employment, trouble with 
employers and authorities, a felling as if he were held in leash all his life and denied 
expression in any direction. These are the outward experiences but they are generated by the 
inner nature, and until that changes he must suffer the whiplash of necessity. In the first place 
he has a tendency to crawl into a shell and shut himself in and others out. He is a pessimist 
and a kill-joy, has little or no regard for the feelings of others and is very obstinate. In the 
horoscope of a woman such an aspect signifies marriage to one much older who will hold her 
with a very tight rein; it augurs death of the husband and often several marriages which are 
ended by death or divorce. 

   These configurations often bring legacies, but either there is trouble and litigation over the 
bequests, or the person squanders the estate after he receives it. If Saturn is in his exaltation 
sign, Libra, the latter part of the life may be better because the person may have taken the 
lessons of life to heart and mended his ways. 

  Jupiter conjunction, parallel, sextile or trine to Sun. The conjunction gives a tendency to 
apoplexy, especially if it occurs in Aries, but with that exception we may say that these 
configurations are sure indications of health, wealth and happiness. They give the person an 
abundance of vitality which is proof against very severe onslaughts of disease, and even when 
particularly unfavorable planetary influences succeed in breaking down his resistance, 
recovery will be so rapid as to seem miraculous. This nearly impregnable condition of health is 
all the more unassailable because it is backed by a disposition at once sunny and jovial, and 
that latter characteristic also makes the fortunate possessors of these aspects beloved by all 
with whom they come in contact. Everybody is glad to see the person with the perpetual smile, 
but they do more than "smile"-- they earn the friendship universally bestowed upon them by 
deeds of kindness, by words of sympathy, cheer or hope as the occasion may demand. They 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



are trusted by everybody because they never betray a trust. They have clear heads, good 
judgment and executive ability so that they are well fitted to help others. These characteristics 
also favor their own financial fortunes, so they accumulate wealth, but theirs is never "tainted 
money;" they never benefit by the loss of others. They are religiously conservative and may be 
aptly described as "pillars of society." They shine particularly in government work. 

  Jupiter square or opposition to the Sun is bad for the health because it gives a tendency 
to form bad habits. The person is far too fond of the so-called "good things of life," and very 
selfish in supplying his own comforts; he never exercises nor denies himself so the circulation 
becomes sluggish and as these people have a superabundance of blood this sluggishness is 
productive of various noxious growths and functional disorders; sometimes a fit of anger raises 
the blood pressure to such a point that a vessel bursts and ends the life or leaves the person 
henceforth a useless wreck. 

   These aspects give a bombastic haughty dispositions with an inordinate love of display and 
thus induce extravagance both in social and business affairs with the result that the person 
sometimes finds himself involved in debt which he cannot pay and then it is but a step to the 
bankruptcy court. A false price often prevents these people from working honestly for others; 
they would rather prey upon the public as gamblers, followers of races and other so-called 
sports where there is an opportunity to swindle people and get what they call an "easy" living 
until they land in the meshes of the law. Children with these aspects should be given special 
training in self-restraint, thrift and honesty; they will have a tendency to scorn and scoff at 
religion, but perhaps the memory of a devout mother may help to keep them straight. 

  Mars parallel, conjunction, sextile or trine to Sun. The conjunction gives a tendency to 
fever, especially if it occurs in Aries, the sign which governs the head, but it is curious that 
people with that configuration seem also to be able to endure a much higher temperature than 
others, and come unscathed through such a siege of sickness as would ordinarily prove fatal. 
With that exception these aspects all produce a super-abundance of vital energy which 
assures their possessor of the most radiant health all through life, they strengthen the 
constitution and make the person able to endure the harder tasks, and give him a dauntless 
determination and courage to face the greatest odds. Given a plan to follow he may be trusted 
to overcome all physical obstacles for he has both executive and constructive ability together 
with an indomitable will which refuses to recognize defeat. The disposition is frank and open 
but blunt and often brusque; they are too intensely bent on whatever they want to do to waste 
time in politeness and suavity; they brush the conventionalities aside without compunction and 
are therefore not liked by people of too fine sensibilities; they are, however, men and women of 
action and the foremost factors in the world's work; but for their enterprise and energy the 
world would move much more slowly. 

   Aspects to the Sun and Mars are absolutely necessary to give zest to life; even adverse 
aspects are better than none, for where these planets are unaspected the person is listless, 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



vapid and he will never amount to anything no matter how good the figure may be in other 
respects. 

  Mars square or opposition to the Sun also endows the person with an abundance of 
energy and the faculty of leadership, but these are turned to purposes of deviltry and 
destruction. The courage implanted by the good aspects becomes foolhardiness, the person 
has loud, overbearing, swaggering manner and is ready to fight at the drop of a hat, he is 
always in opposition to constituted authority and ready to rebel wherever he sees a chance. He 
has an extremely fiery temper but holds no resentment. On account of these qualities he is 
universally disliked both by employers and his fellow-workers, is always in hot water and never 
stays long in any place for he is an agitator and trouble-maker. These aspects also dispose to 
accidents in which the person may be maimed, also to gunshot and knife- wounds, to scalding-
burns and to fevers, inflammatory complaints, boils and eruptions. 

   Uranus Sextile or trine to the Sun makes the person intuitive, original, inventive and 
independent in his manner of conduct and personal appearance, also with respect to food and 
certain mannerisms; he is what people call eccentric, often conspicuous, yet not offensively so; 
given to pursuits and studies which people consider "queer" such as occultism and astrology, 
but also delving into the unknown after nature's secrets concerning electricity or the like. He 
often becomes a successful inventor if other aspects give the mechanical ability to work out his 
schemes. Uranus rules the ether and now that we are nearing the Aquarian age his vibrations 
will in increasing measure bring to our ken methods of using nature's finer forces and the 
people with the Sun sextile or trine Uranus will be the media to attract and interpret them for us 
as the aerials and receivers in a wireless station collect and transcribe the messages carried 
by the ether waves to which they are attuned. The person often rises in life through the 
friendship of people above him in the social scale. He is of a very high-strung temperament but 
has himself well under control, and rarely shows temper or anger. He is an out and out idealist. 

  Uranus parallel, conjunction, square or opposition to Sun makes the person very high-
strung, nervous and of uncontrolled emotions ready to fly into hysteria on any or no 
provocation. It predisposes to all nervous disorders such as St. Vitus dance, epilepsy and lack 
of coordination. It makes him impulsive and unreliable, without regard for the conventionalities 
highly impatient of any human restraint upon his liberty and committed to the theory of 
affinities, soulmates, and free-love, hence an undesirable marriage partner and likely to figure 
in divorce proceedings or scandals of an even worse nature. 

   There is also danger of trouble on account of connection with anarchistic plots where the 
inventive faculty may find scope in the construction of explosives and infernal machines. 
Unless these aspects are modified by other configurations these people are among the most 
dangerous to society. They are liable to accidents from lightning and electricity, and all through 
life they meet disappointment in every direction. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



  Neptune sextile or trine to the Sun favors the possibility of developing the spiritual faculties, 
for he intensifies the spiritual vibrations in the aura. Many people with these configurations 
hear the harmony of the spheres and if Mercury, the lower octave of Neptune gives the 
requisite dexterity they become musicians of high inspirational nature. In others it breed love of 
the occult which leads them into the higher life but they usually approach it from the intellectual 
standpoint of psychic investigators; a few live the life and obtain first-hand knowledge. 

  Neptune conjunction, parallel, square or opposition to the Sun also brings the person in 
touch with the denizens of the invisible world by raising the vibrations in his aura, but these 
configurations attract the undesirable element such as met at the ordinary spiritualistic seance. 
In a watery sign Neptune induces the person to drink to excess and then the resulting 
acceleration of the vibratory rate frequently causes him to perceive the ugly, gruesome forms 
abounding in the lower realms of the invisible world, which are real elemental entities and not 
figments as believed by people who hear him tell what he sees during delirium tremens. 

   These aspects also make the person liable to be swindled by sharpers and confidence men, 
and easily hoodwinked. 

   It cannot be too strongly impressed upon readers and students that judgment is never to be 
formed on any planetary aspect or position apart from the balance of the horoscope. The 
unblended, basic nature of aspects is given so that students may recognize innate tendencies 
and be alert to overcome the evil and to cultivate the good. The free will of the individual can 
always modify the horoscope, as pointed out on pages 58 and 59, and in Chapter XXII of this 
book. ("A word to the wise."--Editor.) 

  

CHAPTER IX

VENUS THE PLANET OF LOVE

   In the 13th Chapter of Paul's First Epistle to the Corinthians we find a eulogy of "love." The 
word used in the authorized version is "charity," but it ought to be read as "love." Love 
suffereth long and is kind, love vaunteth not herself, is not puffed up, believeth all things, 
endureth all things. . .Whether there be prophecies they shall fail, whether there be knowledge 
it shall vanish away." He concludes that in time faith and hope will pass away because we shall 
know the things in which we now have faith and our hopes will have been realized, but love, he 
contends, remains forever. The keynote of Venus is "love," "harmony," and "rhythm," and if we 
want to know her nature we may profitably read that chapter and substitute "Venus' for "Love." 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



Venus vaunteth not herself, is not puffed up, seeketh not her own, rejoices not in iniquity but in 
truth, beareth all things, believeth all things, endureth all things. These sayings are all true 
when applied to Venus for she furnishes the unifying bond between all members of the human 
family in whatever relationship they may be placed. It is the love-ray of Venus piercing deeply 
the heart of the mother which breeds in her the tender care wherewith she nourishes her 
offspring through helpless infancy. Venus sounds the love call of the youth and the maiden, 
gives and takes, smoothing out all the difficulties in the conjugal career. She is ever burning 
incense upon the altar of affection and from her garden of love comes the flowers which scent 
even the most sordid souls with celestial perfume and raise them for the time being to the 
stature of gods. 

   But when Venus is afflicted, all these sublime qualities become tainted and take a hideous 
aspect according to the nature of their affliction. Squares and oppositions turn love to lust 
which makes the person revel in sensual gratification; the perception of beauty which 
expresses itself as art becomes slovenliness, the tendency to self-sacrifice, the giving of 
oneself for others is turned to selfishness and the person will then seem to use others to 
escape any task or effort not to his or her liking, laziness being one of the most prominent 
characteristics of an afflicted Venus. 

   Being feminine, Venus never reaches out toward others, but exerts a magnetic energy which 
draws them to her. Therefore she represents in a man's horoscope those of the opposite sex 
to whom the person is drawn, but in a woman's horoscope Venus describes the person's own 
attraction for the opposite sex and Mars the masculine planet shows who will be attracted by 
her charms. 

   Venus is essentially dignified in Taurus and Libra, and exalted in Pisces, and therefore her 
influence is most powerfully felt when she is placed in those signs. She is weak and afflicted 
when placed in either of the martial signs, Aries or Scorpio, where she is in her fall, or when 
she is in the mercurial sign, Virgo. The best House position for her is the Seventh where her 
influence will make the marriage serene and blissful. 

  

VENUS IN THE TWELVE HOUSES

  Venus in the First House has a tendency to spread sunshine over the child's home and 
make the early life happy. It gives an amiable character so that the person is well liked 
because of his social nature and friendly disposition. It brings out the love of music, art and a 
desire for pleasure. This is what may be called "a lucky position" for it makes the person very 
attractive to all with whom he or she comes in contact and in that way it tends to give general 
success in life. It is also very good for the general health. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



  Venus in the Second House is an indication of financial success in life. People with Venus 
in this position are usually very popular and are thus helped by their friends to lucrative 
positions. At the same time this position makes the person very wasteful and prodigal so that it 
tends to make him spend more then he earns. The money is usually squandered on pleasure, 
dress and ornaments for self by a woman and for an amour by a man, and not infrequently 
leads to abuses which undermine the health. This position also shows gain by dealing in things 
ruled by Venus, such as dress goods, jewelry, music, etc. 

  Venus in the Third House has a particularly beneficial effect upon the mind, making the 
person cheerful, optimistic and inclined to look at everything from the bright side of life. It gives 
a love of music, art, literature and everything that has a refining influence, and unusual facility 
for expressing one's self in a happy, appropriate manner, either in speech or writing. It gives 
love of travel; the person will enjoy himself on his journeys and benefit by them. It also makes 
relations with brothers and sisters and neighbors and the people in one's immediate 
environment congenial. 

   Venus in the Fourth House shows happy conditions in the home, particularly in the latter 
part of life. It also indicates that an inheritance may be left to the person and that if he owns 
houses or lands he will gain much by them. 

   Venus in the Fifth House makes the person unusually affectionate and as a result he or 
she usually experiences a number of love affairs all of which run their courses smoothly. In 
indicates that the marriage will be fruitful and production of lovely and loving children. It is a 
fortunate position for teachers and people connect with education institutions, also for those 
engaged in publication of literature and for gain by speculation in stocks or similar securities. 

   Venus in the Sixth House gives the person faithful servants who will work for his interest if 
he is an employer. If he is an employee, it will make him well liked by his employers and fellow-
workers. It is a fairly good position for health provided the person does not abuse it. That is to 
say, the constitution is harmonious, but not very strong. If the health is guarded with care it will 
remain in good condition for life, but a very little abuse may turn the scales the other way and 
make the person an invalid. 

   Venus in the Seventh House is one of the surest signs of domestic felicity. It signifies an 
early marriage and an increase of prosperity after that event. If the person finds it expedient to 
enter into partnership on a business basis the presence of Venus tends to make this 
relationship harmonious and beneficial. It is also a good sign that if litigation seems necessary 
some way will be found to settle the matter without actual rupture. This position is good for 
actors, singers, and others whose calling brings them before the public in a vocal capacity for it 
ensures a kind and sympathetic reception on the part of their audience. 

   Venus in the Eighth House will bring gain by marriage, partnership or legacy if it is well 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



aspected, but if it is afflicted it brings loss and disappointment in love, or an extravagant 
marriage partner, and legal trouble over a will. 

   Venus in the Ninth House is a very fortunate position if Venus is well aspected, for being so 
highly elevated here it exercises considerable influence in life and makes the disposition 
exceedingly kind, sympathetic and helpful so that by these qualities the person becomes much 
esteemed and sought after, particularly in charitable or religious work, for this position also 
brings out the devotional side of the nature. It gives a love of music, art and drama as well as 
everything that has an influence for soul upliftment. Whenever the person journeys from one 
place to another for gain or for pleasure. Venus in the Ninth House will smooth the path before 
him and make his trip thoroughly enjoyable. If Venus is afflicted in the Ninth House the person 
will long to do or to be all the foregoing things, but will find it exceedingly difficult, if not 
impossible to accomplish his desire. 

   Venus in the Tenth House is one of the best signs of general success in the life when well 
aspected. The person who has this position becomes very popular, particularly with the 
opposite sex, and will rise in the social scale through marriage. It gives an ability to avoid 
trouble in life and extract from it all the pleasure there is in every situation. Comfortable 
financial circumstances attend upon the person all through life and foster a general attitude of 
optimism. When Venus is afflicted in the Tenth House the person is looked down on by those 
in his social environment and though he tries to ingratiate himself with those who are in the 
charmed circles, he will find himself left with snubs and insults. A hasty or ill- considered 
marriage is apt to make matters worse and bring him farther into disrepute, as a scapegrace. 

   Venus in the Eleventh House if well-aspected brings to the person hosts of friends who are 
willing and anxious to aid him in the realization of his hopes, wishes and desires, but it 
depends upon the nature and character of the sign wherein Venus is placed as well as on the 
strength of the aspects whether they will be able to do so or not. For instance, if Venus is in the 
Eleventh House in Aries or Scorpio, one of the martial signs where she is weak, and aspected 
only by sextiles from Mercury and the Moon, very little help can be expected of her compared 
to what she will give if she is in her own signs, Taurus or Libra, and aspected by trines from the 
Sun and Jupiter. In the case first cited, the friends drawn to the person may be ever so sincere 
in their wish to help but will not have the ability. In the latter case they will exert powerful 
influence and will accomplish wonders. If Venus is afflicted in the Eleventh House it is very 
often found that the person attracts friends who impose upon him and use him for their own 
objects and when they have so used him to the fullest extend and he cannot serve their 
purpose any longer they throw him aside. 

   Venus in the Twelfth House if well-aspected indicates that the person will benefit from the 
things signified by this House, viz., occupations connected with prisons, hospitals or charitable 
institutions, or by work in a chemical laboratory or by some such secluded occupation where 
he does not come in touch with the public. It also favors study and practice of the occult and 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



gives a tendency to secret, clandestine love affairs which will probably run smoothly if Venus is 
well-aspected, but if she is weak by sign, or afflicted in the Twelfth House she will cause 
trouble through jealousy, divorce and scandal, or sickness in confinement on account of over- 
indulgence of the passions, particularly if Venus is in Scorpio which governs the generative 
organs, or in Taurus which gives the same effect by reflex action, where it signifies self-abuse. 

  

VENUS IN THE TWELVE SIGNS

   Venus in Aries lends ardors to the affection of Venus by blending them with the fire of Mars 
who is ruler of Aries and for that reason it makes the person very ardent in the expression of 
affection. This usually leads to popularity especially among the opposite sex and often results 
in a hasty marriage, but that kind of love is not and cannot be lasting. Eventually the fire of 
passion burns out the love and marriages brought about by this position are then fruitful 
sources of domestic unhappiness. This position also inclines the person to be rash and 
impulsive whenever his sympathies are appealed to, so that he often helps an unworthy cause. 
Venus in Aries also inclines the person to general extravagance in his expenditures. 

   Venus on Taurus is a splendid position for there she is essentially dignified and much 
stronger than in the other signs with the exception of Libra and Pisces where she is 
respectively dignified and exalted. It is a very favorable position for financial affairs, especially 
gains derived through the person's own efforts in whatever vocation in life he may have 
chosen. It gives a friendly and sociable disposition with the ability to inspire reciprocal feelings 
in others. People with Venus in Taurus are very set in their opinions concerning correct form 
and decorum, correct in speech and once they have formed an opinion they hold to it very 
tenaciously. They are generous but not extravagant. 

   Venus in Gemini blends the beauty of Venus with the mercurial ability to express so that 
people who have this configuration are able to choose their words with singular facility and 
infuse in them a rhythm which is like music to the ears of a listener. Therefore this is one of the 
positions which make poets, provided of course that other indications in the horoscope 
support, for it should always be remembered by the student that no single aspect or position is 
in itself sufficient to mark a prominent characteristic. To do this the whole horoscope must be 
blended. This position has a very refining influence on the mind, inclining to a literary or artistic 
career. It makes the person beloved of his brothers and sisters, neighbors and other people in 
his immediate environment. This position also inclines to marriage and frequently to more than 
one union. It favors traveling both for gain and pleasure, especially short journeys. 

   Venus in Cancer blends the characteristics of Venus with those of the Moon and the 
psychic watery nature of Cancer. Therefore this position gives the person a very fruitful 
imagination and he or she is very part to come in touch with the inhabitants of the unseen 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



world or at least take up some very devotional phase of religion; but this is dangerous because 
Venus is negative, attracting without selecting or discriminating hence makes liable to 
domination by spirit controls and the dangers of mediumship. 

   Venus in Leo is compounding love, for Leo rules the heart and whoever has this position will 
be tender-hearted to a degree. Contrary to the commonly accepted ideas there is a cruel 
streak in Leo, but when Venus is there, there is no more loving and tender sign in the zodiac, 
besides being that Leo is a fixed sign Venus in this position makes for an unparalleled 
assertion of the affections when once they have been placed and an unswerving loyalty to the 
object thereof. Being that Leo is the fifth sign Venus in Leo also gives success in entertainment 
or educational enterprises and the blending of the Venus ray with the solar brings favor from 
those above the person in the social scale. 

   Venus in Virgo, the Sixth House sign gives the person a deep and tender sympathy for the 
sick and people with this position make good nurses. This position also favors occupation as a 
chemist, or a dietitian who is concerned with the preparation of foods for the maintenance or 
attainment of health. If the person has employees or subordinates under his management his 
relations with those people will always be very pleasant, and they will serve him well. 

   Venus in Libra, the Seventh House sign is essentially dignified and strong, This is one of 
the positions which testify to a fruitful and congenial marriage or successful partnership. It 
gives musical or artistic ability and makes the person popular in public life. If engaged as a 
speaker or singer it ensures an appreciate audience whenever he appears in public. 

   Venus in Scorpio is the worst position of all in which she may be placed, for here again the 
love ray of Venus blends with the martial fire of passion in the sign governing the genitals so 
that if there are no other redeeming and restraining influences in the horoscope love turns to 
lust and the unbridled gratification of an exaggerated sexual desire, especially if the Moon or 
Mars are there. This is apt to undermine the constitution and though that may not be apparent 
for a long time the effect of such a sapping of the vitality will some time be felt and cause a 
general breakdown, but that, of course, is nothing compared with the moral effect of the 
practices indicated by this passion. It should be said furthermore for the benefit of those who 
have this position that it does not matter whether such abuses take place in wedlock or not; 
Nature does not care whether they have been legalized by man-made law or not. From her 
standpoint they are a violation of the law of life and will be punished whether sanctioned by 
society or not. This position also gives a love of luxury and anything that stirs the emotions or 
wherein the senses may revel. Curiously enough it also sometimes gives a sense of deep 
religious devotion which them serves as an outlet for the overcharged feelings of the native. 
This position also creates jealousy and trouble in marriage and the reputation of the person is 
apt to be smirched. A well-aspected Venus in Scorpio is liable to bring a legacy. 

   Venus in Sagittarius. This is another of her strongest positions for there her qualities blend 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



with those of Jupiter, the planet of benevolence, to foster love and good-will among men. 
Therefore also this position indicates a genial and optimistic disposition, a sympathetic, kind 
and generous heart, a love of God expressed in religious devotion, or love of man shown by 
philanthropy and charity. It indicates a refined mind, cultured, and fond of drama, art and 
music. It fosters the imagination and intuition and like the other double-bodies signs Gemini 
and Pisces, it inclines to plurality of marriages. 

   Venus in Capricorn, the Tenth House sign, gives social success and popularity, but Venus 
does not blend well with Saturn, the ruler of Capricorn. There is therefore a slight tendency to 
melancholy in people who have Venus in that position, Nor are they ever secure in the favors 
which they receive from other people or in their popularity, for Saturn has a tendency to throw 
them down when they have reached the highest pinnacle. Therefore, though this influence 
may help them to climb the ladder of advancement in social circles or in business they are 
never safe in their position. This influence makes a person very jealous of honor and he takes 
it to heart when sometimes Saturn throws him down. Venus in Saturn's sign often causes the 
person to disregard the fact that disparity in ages is so fatal to happiness in marriage and 
hence if he marries young he takes someone who is much older than himself for a partner or if 
married in later years he selects someone who is still in the bloom of youth with the almost 
inevitable result that disagreement and dissolution of the marriage tie take place in the course 
of a few years. Frequently also people with this position of Venus marry for business or as a 
matter of convenience. In short Venus never reaches her legitimate expression of love in 
Saturn's House and therefore such unions are always a source of sorrow and disappointment 
to the contracting parties. 

   Venus in Aquarius indicates a blending of the Uranian qualities, independence, impatience 
of restraint, disregard of convention, desire for originality, uncompromising sincerity and 
intuition, with those of Venus and as a result we find that people with this position refuse to be 
bound by the usual restrictive rules of society in their love affairs and follow their heart's 
inclination regardless of what others may say or think. They are firm believers in the theory of 
soul-mates, affinities, et cetera, and liable to act in the most unexpected manner with such 
startling suddenness that neither they nor anyone else are able to foresee what they may say 
or do next. But at the same time they are so loving and sincere in their convictions that friends 
never fail them and whatever success they attain in life is usually due to the efforts of friends to 
help them to realize their hopes, wishes and aspirations. 

   Venus in Pisces is in her own exaltation sign where she again blends with the benefic ray of 
Jupiter and as Pisces is a watery sign this position signifies a powerful emotional nature, 
subdued and toned down by the element of sorrow inherent in the twelfth house sign. This 
position therefore indicates someone capable of feeling a sentiment such as that felt by our 
Savior when He said: "Come unto Me all ye that are weak and heavy laden and I will give you 
rest." Thus Venus in Pisces indicates a nature yearning and aching to assist those who are 
afflicted by bodily ills or suffering from sorrow. This position also gives an intense love of music 
and when other testimonies concur, considerable ability to express either vocally or 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



instrumentally, for music is the most wonderful outlet for the deepest emotions of which the 
human soul is capable. People with Venus in Pisces are especially liable to financial imposition 
on the part of others and trouble through an illegal marriage. 

  

VENUS IN ASPECT WITH OTHER PLANETS

   The Sun parallel or conjunction Venus calls out the artistic side of the nature, making the 
person fond of music, art and poetry. It also strengthens the love-nature and if the 
configuration occurs in the seventh house it is a positive testimony of unalloyed marital bliss. In 
the second or eighth house it leads to extravagance of the person or his mate, in Scorpio it is 
not good for the morals and in Pisces it leads to intemperance, but generally speaking, these 
aspects strengthen the constitution, increase the popularity and make social intercourse 
smooth so that the person finds many friends and keeps them. 

   As the orbit of Venus is so small she never forms the sextile, trine, square or opposition to 
the Sun. 

   Mercury conjunction, parallel or sextile to Venus (Note.--Venus and Mercury are never 
more than 76 degrees apart, therefore they can only form the conjunctions, parallels and 
sextiles, but not the trine, square nor opposition.) 

   These aspects make the person cheerful and companionable with a good-natured 
disposition and a desire for society. They also give the ability for music and poetry, especially if 
in the Ascendant and are a general indication of success in salesmanship, for such people are 
suave, affable and persuasive. 

   The Moon conjunction, parallel, sextile or trine to Venus. The Moon is significator of 
marriage for a man and therefore the good aspects between Venus, the planet of love, and the 
Moon are good indications of a happy marriage when they occur in a man's horoscope. But in 
a woman's horoscope these aspects operate upon the health, for the Moon is the planet of 
fecundity and has rule over the female functions in particular which are so large a factor in the 
health of a woman; this latter is much strengthened by the good aspects of the Moon and 
Venus. These aspects make the person an orator with a fruitful imagination; give love of 
pleasure, music and art, and an engaging personality, very attractive to the opposite sex, 
because kindly, affectionate and sympathetic. They tend to general success in life and the 
person usually has sufficient for the day and the way. 

   The Moon square or opposition to Venus is an indication of trouble in marriage for a man, 
because the wife described by an afflicted Venus will be slovenly and of dissolute habits which 
will destroy domestic happiness. In a woman's horoscope it indicates disturbance of the female 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



functions and it also gives a tendency to digestive troubles and poor circulation when in the 
horoscope of either sex. These aspects also give a liability to trouble through slander and 
public scandal. 

   Saturn sextile or trine to Venus. The good qualities of Venus are love and affection and 
the good qualities of Saturn are tact, diplomacy, method, system, justice, thrift and economy. 
We may therefore judge that when these two planets are configurated in good aspect they 
make the person faithful and true, just and methodical, qualities which make for success in all 
departments of life. Therefore a person with these aspects will be much sought as a friend or 
advisor, or as a person to be trusted with any commission requiring sterling honesty and 
ability. They make the person simple in his tastes and of impeachable morality, and give 
honor, esteem, health and easy circumstances. 

   Saturn parallel, conjunction, square or opposition to Venus brings out the evil qualities 
of the two planets and troubles which are thus generated usually come through the person's 
relations with the opposite sex. It makes him underhanded and scheming to gratify his 
passions often in an unusual manner and his perverted desires are usually directed against 
some one who is much younger than himself. If regular marriage relations are entered into, 
such a person is usually a demon of jealousy who makes life a burden for the marriage partner 
on account of his suspicious nature. People with these afflictions are also stingy in all money 
matters and exceedingly avaricious. They have poor business judgment and are therefore 
liable to losses, failure and bankruptcy. 

   Jupiter parallel, conjunction, sextile or trine to Venus is one of the nest signs of success 
and general good fortune. It favors the accumulation of wealth and the enjoyment of all the 
luxuries of life. It is a good indication of a successful and happy marriage, social prestige and 
the respect of all whom the person comes in contact. It gives the person a jovial, optimistic, 
generous and large-hearted disposition, and makes hospitable to a degree; interested and 
active in philanthropic measures, a liberal mind tolerant of the views of others even where he 
differs radically, fond of pleasure, traveling parties, and capable of enjoying life to the fullest 
extent. These aspects also give talent for music, especially if either planet is in Pisces. 

   Jupiter square or opposition to Venus gives the same luxurious likings as the good 
aspects, but limits the ability to satisfy them; although such people make the most frantic 
efforts to present a fine front to the world, they are generally found out to be shams. Their lack 
of business ability is often responsible for failure and bankruptcy and they are very liable to 
suffer losses through the treachery of others. Love and marriage also are sources of sorrow for 
those whom Venus and Jupiter are afflicting. They are apt to be jilted before marriage or the 
marriage partner may prove faithless and may abscond. These aspects also produce and 
amorous nature likely to take liberties regardless of the laws of decency and to be faithless to 
marriage vows. They make people extremely self-indulgent and in Pisces they predispose to 
drink. 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



   Mars sextile or trine to Venus will give an ambitious, aspiring and adventurous nature, 
amorous and extremely demonstrative in its affection, very fond of sports and pleasures. It 
gives the person an abundance of energy and business acumen, consequently he has a 
splendid earning capacity but he wastes money for he loves above all things to make a great 
outward show and display. Being a free spender he is also very popular among his associates, 
and being, as already said, of an amorous nature he marries either very early or the marriage 
is a very hasty one. 

   Mars conjunction or parallel to Venus does not always operate in the same manner, but is 
to be classed as a good or bad aspect according to circumstances and the matter to be 
judged. For instance, Mars conjunction Venus makes the person less blunt and domineering, 
more kind and polite; it is therefore good in that respect; but the conjunction also strengthens 
he passional nature, especially if it occurs in Scorpio; and in the Twelfth House it leads to self-
abuse so that in those cases it is decidedly bad. 

   Mars square or opposition Venus. See page 330. (In the printed version of this book.) 

   Uranus sextile or trine to Venus makes the person mentally alert, of quick intuitive 
perception and exceedingly magnetic, especially to the opposite sex; and he also attracts 
hosts of friends who will be a benefit and assistance to him. These aspects give love of art, 
music and poetry and are favorable indications of a happy marriage often at a very early age, 
or one suddenly consummated. They also sometimes bring the person love of a platonic 
nature. 

   Uranus conjunction or parallel to Venus. There is a doubt as to whether these aspects 
should be classed as good or evil, which must be settled in the individual horoscope where 
they occur for they may work either way, depending upon the other configuration. If Venus is 
otherwise afflicted in the horoscope, for instance the conjunction or parallel will further 
accentuate her evil qualities, but if she is well placed or aspected Uranus will bring out the 
nobler side. 

   Uranus square or opposition to Venus. The square or opposition always brings trouble 
through the sex relation: a hasty, ill-considered union, quarrels, divorces, public scandals 
through clandestine intercourse and kindred irregularities, with loss of friend, prestige and 
popularity, exile from home and family and sudden financial losses through unexpected or 
unforeseen happenings. There is a general lack of balance, an erratic personality. 

   Neptune sextile or trine to Venus makes an inspirational musician. It gives a fertile 
imagination and deep emotions, a nature that is pure and chaste, hence occasionally it leads 
to platonic unions and companionship of the most esthetic nature. 

   Neptune conjunction or parallel to Venus is to be judged on the same line as indicated in 

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com



the case of Mars and Uranus. 

   Neptune square or opposition to Venus makes the person liable to sorrow, loss and 
trouble, especially through the marriage partner or anyone else in whom he trusts. People with 
these aspects should be particularly careful to avoid anything which has in it an element of 
chance or speculation, for they are sure to lose, especially in dealing with large companies or 
corporations. 

   

RangaRakes tamilnavarasam.com