Astrology

Best Astrology Compatibility Guide.
Learn the Horoscope, the Zodiac

Signs, Find Your Spirit and Your Star
Signs

By Anton Romanov

Copyright © 2015 by Anton Romanov

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, distributed, or 
transmitted in any form or by any means, including photocopying, recording, or other 
electronic or mechanical methods, without the prior written permission of the publisher, 
except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical reviews and certain other 
noncommercial uses permitted by copyright law.



Disclaimer

This document is geared towards providing exact and reliable information in
regards to the topic and issue covered. The publication is sold with the idea
that the publisher is not required to render accounting, officially permitted, or
otherwise,  qualified services.  If  advice is  necessary,  legal  or professional,  a
practiced individual in the profession should be ordered. 

From a Declaration of Principles which was accepted and approved equally by
a Committee of the American Bar Association and a Committee of Publishers
and Associations. 

In  no  way  is  it  legal  to  reproduce,  duplicate,  or  transmit  any  part  of  this
document in either electronic means or in printed format. Recording of this
publication  is  strictly  prohibited  and  any  storage  of  this  document  is  not
allowed unless with written permission from the publisher. All rights reserved.

The information provided herein is stated to be truthful and consistent, in that
any liability, in terms of inattention or otherwise, by any usage or abuse of any
policies,  processes,  or  directions  contained  within  is  the  solitary  and utter
responsibility of the recipient reader. Under no circumstances will any legal
responsibility  or  blame  be  held  against  the  publisher  for  any  reparation,
damages, or monetary loss due to the information herein, either directly or
indirectly. 

Respective authors own all copyrights not held by the publisher. 

The information herein is  offered for informational  purposes solely,  and is
universal as so. The presentation of the information is without contract or any
type of guarantee assurance. 

The trademarks that are used are without any consent, and the publication of
the trademark is without permission or backing by the trademark owner. All
trademarks and brands within this book are for clarifying purposes only and
are the owned by the owners themselves, not affiliated with this document. 



Table of Contents

Disclaimer.............................................................................................................2
Table of Contents..................................................................................................3
Introduction..........................................................................................................4
Chapter 1: Unfolding the Mysteries of Astrology................................................5
Chapter 2: Aries the Ram.....................................................................................8
Chapter 3: Taurus the Bull..................................................................................12
Chapter 4: Gemini the Twins..............................................................................16
Chapter 5: Cancer the Crab................................................................................20
Chapter 6: Leo the Lion......................................................................................24
Chapter 7: Virgo the Maiden..............................................................................28
Chapter 8: Libra the Scale..................................................................................32
Chapter 9: Scorpio the Scorpion........................................................................36
Chapter 10: Sagittarius the Centaur..................................................................39
Chapter 11: Capricorn the Mountain Goat.........................................................42
Chapter 12: Aquarius the Water Bearer.............................................................45
Chapter 13: Pisces the Fish................................................................................48
Conclusion...........................................................................................................51
Want Free Books?...............................................................................................52
My Other Books:.................................................................................................52



Introduction
Despite having a vague image of who he is, there will  always be aspects of
himself to which a person is blind. Wise and successful people make it a point

 .to identify these aspects

Knowledge of one’s strengths and weaknesses allows a more sound evaluation
of situations. Not all opportunities, after all, produce the same positive results
for everyone, and at the same time, not all characteristics, despite bearing a
clear conscience, can work harmoniously together. Like a pebble thrown on
water, these little things will resonate far into the life of a person. One must

 .have sufficient wisdom to know how each ripple will affect his life

In simpler terms, knowing oneself will harbor great wisdom, which will then
result in better life choices, and thus success. Kings, emperors, pharaohs, and
other great leaders of the past have relied on astrology to guide them and their

 .people






Chapter 1: Unfolding the Mysteries of
Astrology



The Rise of Astrology

Great minds of ancient civilizations observed the heavens and discovered a
pattern. They found out stars are fixed, the moon has cycles, and planetary

 .revolutions are predictable. This in-depth study resulted in the calendar

Along with its invention was the inception of astrology. Just like it affects the
rise  and  fall  of  seas  or  the  blooming  and  wilting  of  plants,  the  ancients
believed  the  movements  of  heavenly  bodies  contribute  to  the  forming  of

.people’s personalities. At the same time, foretell events and shifts in moods

What’s amazing with this esoteric science is how it did not blossom in a single
civilization.  The  Mayans,  Egyptians,  Chinese,  and  Indians  each  developed
their own systems and signs, despite having vague awareness of each other at
the  time.  And for  over  five  thousand  years,  it  contributed  to  the  fields  of
science,  alongside  meteorology,  alchemy,  astrology,  and  medicine.  It  was
viewed with high regard, treated as a scholarly tradition, and was used as an
essential  decision  making  tool  by  ancient  leaders.  In  essence,  it  played  a
significant part in forming the modern globalized civilization and continues to

 .fascinate people around the world today

Astrology in Modern Society and as a Science

Though modern science dismiss astrology as, to put it simply, nonsense, its
long  and  noble  history  is  difficult  to  deny.  Its  conception  in  different
civilizations  cannot  be  accounted  to  mere  coincidence.  Although  different
cultures  produced  different  signs  and  animal  representations,  their  basis

 .remained the same, the heavenly bodies

According to mainstream scientists, there is no way to test astrology’s validity.
Because of this reason, even without exploring ways to do so, they shunned it.
It’s not yet proven, but gravity could be the scientific answer to astrology that

 .everyone else is missing

Why gravity?  It’s  because  every  heavenly  body  has  it  and  casts  their  own
effects on earth. Since the moon is the closest, its effect is the most observable.
The  moon’s  gravity  pulls  the  earth’s  seas  and  oceans.  This  is  why,  when

 .observed by the beach, the sea will rise and fall within a day

If large bodies of waters can be influenced by an object hundreds of thousands
of kilometers away in space, it is possible it can affect mankind as well. The

 .human body, after all, is seventy percent water

One  possible  reason  humans  barely  feel  these  effects  is  because  they  are
animals ruled by logic. Mankind has established several social etiquettes and
going against  these makes one ‘improper’.  This negative view can result  in
unfavorable circumstances. Other species, on the other hand, have less strict
social rules and can express their drive any time it hits them. When the moon

 .is full, for example, wolves are more driven to howl and mate



Another thing to consider is how low the moon’s gravity is compared to other
planets. Gravity is often determined by the planet’s mass. Since Jupiter is the
largest in the solar system, it has the heaviest pull. If compared with earth’s
gravity, its gravity is 2.4 times more. This means if a person weighs 100kg on

.earth, on Jupiter he would be 240kg

Despite its distance, it is not impossible the herculean planet has its own pull
on earth and, thus, humans. The same goes for other planets and heavenly

 .bodies in the solar system

Gravity, however, is a force humans have much to understand. Until today,
scientists  are  still  baffled  by  how it  affects  everything,  including time and
space or if it even affects these two at all. What can be assured is astrology
should  not  be  easily  dismissed  as  baseless  divination.  Yes,  it  does  remain
shrouded  in  mystery,  but  there  could  be  a  science  behind  it  yet  to  be

 .discovered

Western Zodiac vs. Chinese Zodiac

Of  all  the  horoscopes  developed  in  the  last  five  thousand  years,  only  two
remained prominent across the globe, the Chinese and the Western Zodiac.
Some contemporary astrologers combine the two to provide a more in-depth
reading of a person. Most horoscope followers, on the other hand, choose only

 .one system to follow

There are major differences between the two. The unlikeness of the cultures
caused the two horoscopes to have no resemblance at  all.  Depending on a

 .person’s beliefs or traditions, one will always weigh more against the other

Animal Signs .1

Both  horoscopes  have  the  same  number  of  zodiac  signs  but  are
represented by dissimilar animals or figures. The Chinese based their
spirits on myth, whereas in Western astrology, each are represented by

.a constellation

Periods .2

Each constellation rules over the skies for a whole month. Believing the
formation of  planets  and stars causes an unexplainable  impact on a
person’s psyche. Western zodiacs are arranged on a month-to-month

 .basis

Each Chinese zodiac, on the other hand, dominates an entire year. This
is  due  to  the  Eastern  culture’s  emphasis  on  differences  between

.generations



Calendar Differences .3

The  reason  the  Chinese  New  Year  is  celebrated  on  a  different  and
inconsistent date is because the Chinese calendar follows the phases of
the  moon.  The  month  will  always  begin  with  a  new  moon,  and  a

 .complete cycle lasts for approximately 29 days

The  calendar  being  internationally  followed  today  is  based  on  the
earth’s revolution around the sun. This is the same calendar followed

.by Western astrology, thus, dates for each zodiac sign is fixed

From  these,  it’s  evident  how  culture  greatly  influenced  Chinese  astrology.
 .Furthermore, the moon has played a bigger part than any other celestial body

Western astrology, on the other hand, took every movement and body into the
equation.  Although  there  is  no  such  thing  as  ‘more  accurate’,  Western
astrology will be followed and expounded in this book. Not only will it level
with the currently dominating calendar, American audiences connect more to

 .this system



Chapter 2: Aries the Ram 

Born Between March 21 and April 19

Element: Fire

Ruling Planet: Mars

:Personal Traits

Just like its element, an Aries is full of life and energy. At the same time, they
can be warm but also hot tempered and impulsive. Whenever they are within a
crowd, however, they will always be the brightest. Whether they are displaying
their abilities, or simply being curious, they never fail to catch attention. Their

 .tremendous optimism fuels this and keeps them from depression

As if living up to its animal sign, expect an Aries to take on any challenge.
Whether it’s intellectual or physical, they will take it on and win. Whenever
they feel a superior is less talented, however, they will be as stubborn as a ram.
A display of impatience and abruptness will prove their boss to be inferior. But

.if they are the leader, they will shine even brighter

When  it  comes  to  family  and  friends,  Aries  people  never  fail  to  offer
protection. Should they also come across a conflict and realize they are wrong,

 .they would apologize without hesitation

:Career Compatibilities

 :Ideal professions

Rescue worker, soldier, fireman, entrepreneur, government official,
anything involved in television and entertainment

The  ram  loves  challenges,  making  them  ideal  employees  for  commission-
based jobs. They also get specially  fired up when they have competition or

 .when there are records to break. Bonuses also make great motivators

Another  line  that  may appeal  to  people  under  this  sign is  advertising  and
public relations. Their vibrant and outgoing nature will play a huge role in this

 .profession, and they don’t run short of either



For those leaning more to their  brave and protective nature,  they are best
suited for jobs that allow them to save people. Not only will every mission be a

.challenge, the ram will feel greatly rewarded by simply leading it to success

Love Compatibilities

Aries and Aries : Bad .1

The problem between these lovers is no one wants to be the lesser. Both
would want to dominate the other,  and this will  become the root of
quarrels  in and out of the bedroom. The relationship will  burn with
passion, however, and this will make the romance worthwhile. But the

.flames won’t last long if neither of the two will sacrifice a bit of ego

Aries and Taurus : Bad .2

These two have very different tastes in the bedroom, despite both being
sensual. Aries are adventurous and will burn even more when different
sensual pleasures are explored. Taureans, however, are unimaginative
when it  comes to sex,  and this  will  become the source of  the Aries'
sexual  frustrations.  Outside  the  bedroom,  however,  these  two  will
balance each other, because the bull is good at making money while the
ram is great at spending it. This love combination doesn’t usually last
long, but if the Aries takes the lead in making love and appreciates the

.dependability of the bull, then it may work

Aries and Gemini : Perfect .3

Intellectual stimulation and mutual love for adventure will glue these
individuals together. Aries usually dominate the Gemini between the
sheets,  but  the  twin  is  ingenious  and  discreet  enough  to  peak  the
pleasures of his or her partner and have his or her own satisfaction.
Should these  two  lovebirds  take  their  relationship  to  the  next  level,

.marriage, then they can expect to have a very successful one

Aries and Cancer : Very Bad .4

The relationship will spark in great flames, because of sexual attraction,
but these two signs have completely different wants in life.  The ram
cannot be easily tied down, while the crab yearns for home and hearth.
Soon enough, the attraction will go down the drain as arguments over
these differences worsen. As for marriage, it will be a stormy sail, and

.their love boat might as well be named Titanic II



Aries and Leo : Neutral .5

This love can either be a success or not, and it will depend on how both
can meet the emotional needs of the other. They both have the desire to
lead the relationship, because both are filled with ego and aggression,
and this will make the perfect foundation of their quarrels. But should
the ram share the limelight with the lion, which he or she would greatly
appreciate, and praise his or her physicality, then they can run a steady

.and long union

Aries and Virgo : Bad .6

There are a lot of things to work out between these two, and it all boils
down  to  differences  in  personality.  Both  will  have  to  be  patient  to
succeed.  For  one,  impulsive  and  aggressive  Aries  should  allow  the
maiden to take her time in revealing her enigmatic sexuality. And when
it comes to making plans, both should strive to compromise, instead of
arguing who will  be the boss. Love, however, may run dry when the

.ram’s intrigue over the shy Virgo fades

Aries and Libra : Neutral .7

Attraction will be strong in the initial stages of dating. They will peak
each other’s interests because of opposing personalities. And what will
bring  the  relationship  to  the  next  level  is  the  meeting  of  sensual
pleasures.  But  this  connection will  eventually  die,  because both will

.soon look for qualities that their partner doesn’t have

Aries and Scorpio : Bad .8

If there is such a thing as bipolar love, Aries and Scorpio might just be
the very representation of it. When they can compromise, their sexual
relationship will be very sensual and stimulating. Otherwise, they will
both  be  plagued  with  countless  disagreements  rooted  in  too  many

.similarities

Aries and Sagittarius : Very Good .9

These two have similarities that won’t clash, and will instead become
the foundation of a good relationship.  Their  spontaneity,  tastes,  and
inclination towards the good life will make their bond worthwhile. But



what  makes  them  a  good  match  is  how  they  balance  each  other’s
temperament.  The  ram  is  optimistic,  and  his  humor  will  douse  the
centaur’s inclination to argue. There will be a slight problem, however,
in the bedroom, because physical satisfactions might not be met. But
should this be overcome by the couple,  their relationship will  surely

.last

Aries and Capricorn : Very Bad .10

This time, it’s their differences that will dampen the relationship. The
ram is fiery and impulsive, while the mountain goat is measured and
sanctimonious. Both will want to lead, but restless Aries will soon lose
enthusiasm because of Capricorn's pessimism. At the same time, the
latter  will  shudder  at  the  extravagance  of  the  ram.  There  is  a  high
likelihood that no romantic connection will take place in the first place.
But should it  happen, marriage could be a better aim than a simple

.fling

 

Aries and Aquarius : Bad .11

When it comes to being the boss, Aries will get what he or she wants.
But the Aquarian isn’t as sexually stimulated as the ram, and this can
bring the storms of the relationship. Furthermore, the water bearer is
quite unpredictable and emotional. If these two should hope for things
to work out, Aries should be more tactful, and at the same time, more

.loving

Aries and Pisces : Good .12

When  the  ram  and  the  fish  overcome  their  differences  and
temperaments,  their  relationship  can  last  to  marriage.  It  will  be
complex, however, because their elements, fire and water, don’t really
mix.  If  Aries  wants  to  dominate,  it  wouldn’t  be  a  problem  because
Pisceans prefer having someone to lean on.  As for love between the
sheets, the shy fish will intrigue the ram. But should sexual wishes be

 .revealed, the ram’s excitement will burn even brighter



Chapter 3: Taurus the Bull

Born Between April 20 and May 20

Element: Earth

Ruling Planet: Venus

:Personal Traits

As expected from a sign ruled by Venus, the Taurus feels most alive when
surrounded  by  sensual  pleasures.  May  it  be  food,  sex,  drink,  or  luxuries,
expect  them  to  be  drawn  towards  it.  This  also  makes  a  good  motivator,
because just like a bull, they will work hard for it. People under this sign are
peaceful. They never start the fight and are even slow to anger, but once they

 .reach their limit, expect them to be volatile

Taureans love thinking things over. Whether in love or career, it will take time
before  they  realize  who  or  what  they  want.  Once  they  find  the  answer,
however,  they  will  be  in  it  for  good.  This  dedication  makes  them  great
companions,  lovers  and  parents.  At  the  same  time,  however,  they  will  be

.stubborn enough to stay in it even when things are becoming shaky

As reflected by their element, this sign loves earth and nature. If they have a
choice, the country will make the perfect home. If not, however, they will find
ways to go on nature trips. Their grounded nature may not bring the spotlight

 .on them, but their reputation is solid

:Career Compatibilities

:Ideal Professions

Chef, landscape artist, accountant, engineer, lawyer, educator

The bull is very grounded and with a sole aim for stability, and this nature
extends to their choice of profession. They would basically consider and take
on almost anything as long as the pay is worth the effort, and it comes with

 .great benefits

They will excel in jobs that allow them to work with teams. Taureans are very
dependable because of their honesty, patience, and determination, and these
are  the very traits  that  may lead them to the top.  Apart from these traits,



working in any company that deals with luxury items (e.g. jewelry, food, and
 .flowers) will suit the bull very much

Their one defining physical trait is their voice. Taureans often have loud and
.clear voices, making them ideal announcers or public speakers

:Love Compatibilities

Taurus and Aries : Bad .1

.See Chapter 2: Aries the Ram, Love Compatibilities for description

Taurus and Taurus : Neutral .2

Basically, this will be a very boring relationship. Both man and woman
are  too  grounded;  no  one  will  drag  the  other  to  adventure  and
excitement.  Furthermore, the man would prefer the company of guy
friends, while the woman won’t tolerate lack of attention. They are both
hardworking, affectionate and loyal, and this could bind them together

.for a while, but marriage won’t be a very good option

 

Taurus and Gemini : Bad .3

There will be curiosity on each other’s end, with the twin intrigued by
the  bull’s  directness,  and the  latter  charmed by  the  Gemini's  bright
personality. This initial spark, however, will quickly vanish when they
begin seeing each other’s traits.  Geminids are adventurous in nature
and won’t easily stay settled in one place. The Taurean, on the other
hand, will want what the other doesn’t, and this will cause frustration
on both sides. The scenario inside the bedroom isn’t promising either.
The twin is playful and will change moods to satisfy his or her sexual
pleasures  along  with  his  or  her  partner’s.  There  will  be  a  lack  of
reaction from the bull, and this can kill whatever excitement the other

 .has

Taurus and Cancer : Good .4

Marriage will be a good prospect for these two lovebirds. The Taurus
wants stability, and it greatly answers the Cancer's need to settle down
and  build  a  home.  Furthermore,  they  are  both  affectionate  and
passionate. The sensitive cancer won’t feel unwanted under the bull’s
attentiveness. When it comes to personality traits, whatever one lacks,
the other has as a strength,  and this very aspect makes both perfect
complements of each other. Sex might be a bit complicated, however.



The crab may refrain from love making if  the day passes by without
much  love.  But  as  long  as  there  is  understanding  and  romantic

 .connection between the two, everything will be great

Taurus and Leo : Neutral .5

These  two  have  the  right  sexual  and  emotional  attraction,  and  this
could hold them together. Once personality traits are laid out, however,
the  relationship  may  turn  downward.  The  lion  requires  sustained
adoration, while the bull needs devotion, and both may refuse to give
what each other wants in the long run. In terms of money, the thrifty
Taurean will find Leo’s uncontrollable spending habits distasteful. And
though the bull won’t mind being dominated, if satisfaction is not met,
he or she might end everything right then and there. Basically, if all the
hurdles  caused  by  differences  can  be  settled,  they  will  have  a  good

 .relationship. If not, then it’ll be best to part ways

Taurus and Virgo : Very Good .6

Aside from a possibly rocky sex life, these two will get along very well.
Their personalities and interests are very much in line, so getting along
won’t require too much effort. The bull is known for its tenacity, and
this trait will perfectly complement the maiden’s sharp mind. Add this
to  their  thriftiness,  and  they  might  just  end  up  as  the  richest
astrological couple. As for love making, simple positions are enough to
satisfy both, but certain styles that appeal to the bull, Virgo may find

.disturbing

Taurus and Libra : Bad .7

What could keep these two together is sex, music, and art, but beyond
that, everything is an obstacle. Their personalities don’t appeal to each
other.  The  bull  has  dictatorial  tendencies  and  loves  making  plans.
Libra,  on the other hand, resents the attitude and will  avoid making
commitments.  To  summarize  their  relationship,  there  will  be  some
excitement  in  the  bedroom,  but  once  outside,  all  the  love  may

.transform to quarrels

Taurus and Scorpio : Good .8

Passion burns bright between the bull and the scorpion, but both might
not be on the same page when it comes to possession. Scorpio is highly
emotional and would want to obtain the same level of devotion from his



or her partner. Taurus, however, would want to own the other as he
would an object.  There wouldn’t  be cheating between these two, but
once they reach the ends of their patience, a quarrel could end badly. As
long as both would be tolerant and levelheaded, marriage could work

 .out and be a success

Taurus and Sagittarius : Bad .9

Happiness will be present in each other’s company, but their interests
just won’t fit like a puzzle. The Sagittarian is terribly adventurous and
not even the domestic bull  can tame his or her spirit.  If the centaur
can’t force the Taurean to join in the adventure, he/she will leave and
look  for  love  wherever  the  wind  takes  him/her.  Despite  having  the
ability  to  build  a  home  and  provide  for  a  comfortable  life,  the
Sagittarian  will  still  pursue  his/her  true  heart’s  desires,  leaving  the

 .relationship good but short lived

Taurus and Capricorn : Perfect .10

The bull and the mountain goat would make a real power couple. Not
only might they end up rich, they might also attain a higher status in
life. Both of them value money and hard work. With financial security
being their mutual goal, they could come to an agreement where the
Capricorn  will  work for  them both,  while  the  Taurean will  hold the
household  intact.  Furthermore,  getting  through  to  a  Capricorn  is
difficult because of his/her natural aloofness, but the bull will overcome
this and give the much needed affection and support. Love inside the
bedroom won’t come short either, because the Taurean can tap into the

 .well-hidden sexual reserve of the mountain goat

Taurus and Aquarius : Very Bad .11

Their  very  different  views  in  life  will  send  their  relationship  in  an
instant  downfall.  The  bull  is  sensual  and  passionate,  whereas  the
Aquarian puts sex far down on a list of necessities. Furthermore, the
water bearer always opts for the unconventional, and this can drive the
socially adhering bull to sudden distaste. And last, the Aquarian has a
deep  and  honest  concern  for  humanity,  and  the  Taurean  won’t
understand this, because his mind is set on obtaining possessions. In
the end, the bull will demand a great deal from the Aquarian for their
relationship to work, but the other won’t take gladly. Hence, the end of

.whatever they had

Taurus and Pisces : Perfect .12



The authoritative and strong personality of a Taurus is exactly what a
mild and hesitant Pisces needs to realize all his/her dreams. And the
same goes for the bull,  with the fish ever supportive with all  his/her
endeavors. Their line of interests don’t stray too far from each other
either.  Art,  beauty,  and sensuality  appeal  greatly  to  them both.  The
fish’s tendency to become overly sensitive won’t bother the bull either.
In fact,  his down to earth character will  balance this out. As for sex,
their harmony between the sheets will heavily depend on the Taurus’

.lead



Chapter 4: Gemini the Twins

Born Between May 21 and June 20

Element: Air

Ruling Planet: Mercury

:Personal Traits

People born under the Gemini sign don’t always come with a twin, but they
relish the companion of people. Because of this nature, they make excellent
conversationalists and will excel in anything that requires handling of people.
Spotting a Geminid in a party is quite easy too. Simply look for the guy or girl
with  something  to  say  about  everything.  Aside from loving  attention,  they
enjoy sharing knowledge with others. And everything they know about it was
probably gathered from the adventures, experiences and stories they’ve been

 .on and heard, the very aspects of life Geminids love

As if embodying their element, people under this sign are light and humorous.
This is also one of the reasons people are drawn to them. Despite their easy
personality,  they  hunger  for  intellectual  stimulation.  Whether  it’s  physical,
mental, or spiritual, they will push themselves to gain a holistic understanding
of everything. Because of this nature, however, they gain the title “jack of all
trades, master of none.” They know a little about a lot of things, but never

 .really became an expert in anything

Because of the amount of knowledge they have, this sign does not come short
of ideas. Expect them to come up with out-of-the-box solutions for any kind of
problem  or  find  the  creativity  to  produce  new  concepts.  What  they  lack
sometimes,  however,  is  sympathy.  As  long  as  people’s  attention  is  on  a
Geminid, they are funny and intriguing. Once lost, however, they will leave

 .and may sometimes be rude

:Career Compatibilities

:Ideal Professions

Teacher, technical support, stockbroker, rescue worker, architect, machine
operator, switchboard operator



No one will work best in fast-paced high-pressured environments and love it
more than the Geminids. They enjoy the intellectual challenges, and because
they  are  ‘twins’  in  a  sense,  they  have  the  ability  to  multitask.  A  job  that
requires both travelling and networking skills, for example, will satisfy them.

!There’s a huge chance they’d enjoy it too

Where  a  Gemini  should  never  be  thrown  is  in  traditional  repetitive  work,
because  it  would  kill  them.  These  people  are  highly  optimistic,  and  they
always  have  an  extra  pack  of  energy.  That’s  why  they  should  be  let  go  in
environments where they can unleash their creativity and make use of their

 .intelligence

:Love Compatibilities

Gemini and Aries : Perfect .1

.See Chapter 2: Aries the Ram, Love Compatibilities for description

Gemini and Taurus : Bad .2

.See Chapter 3: Taurus the Bull, Love Compatibilities for description

Gemini and Gemini : Very Good .3

This combination would make the most interesting and lively couple of
all time. Both are great conversationalists, and because of their charm,
versatility, and vivaciousness, they will end up having tons of friends,
and be loved for throwing unforgettable  parties.  Sex and love won’t
come short  either.  They  are  well  attuned  to  each other’s  needs  and
preferences, and this will make their relationship both interesting and
pleasant.  Should  the  couple  be  easily  swayed  by  their  desire  for

 .adventure, it could spark instability and, thus, problems

Gemini and Cancer : Very Bad .4

Cancer is  emotional  and prefers to stay  put  in a place called home,
whereas  Gemini  leans  more  on  the  intellectual  and  prefers  to
constantly move. There will be no security with the twin from the point
of  view  of  the  crab,  and  the  strong  personality  of  the  Gemini  can
instantly  bring  down  his/her  self-confidence.  Emotional  connection
between  the  two  signs  can  be  strong,  but  a  long-term  relationship

.cannot be expected

 



Gemini and Leo : Good .5

Despite falling in love with the heart first, the intellectual Gemini will
seem romantic enough for the lion. And despite having characteristics
that clash, their other traits will make up for it and give them a great
relationship. The Gemini is a great talker and may end up flirting with
anyone, but Leo has a really high self-confidence, so he/she wouldn’t
actually mind. At the same time, despite being constantly moody, the
Gemini's  stability  won’t  be  easily  affected  and  won’t  view  it  as  a
nuisance. Where the needs of these two meet is in passion and emotion.
These aspects of romance will make them enjoy each other’s company.
And what the lion loves most about the twin is the mystery that shrouds

 .his/her sexual desires

Gemini and Virgo : Bad .6

Their attraction will be sparked by the meeting of the minds. Once sex
has  turned  chilly,  however,  the  Gemini  will  soon view Virgo  as  the
mother of all boredom, and at the same time, the maiden will criticize
the indecision of  the twin.  Whatever fire had been sparked between

 .these signs will dissipate as soon as it started

Gemini and Libra : Perfect .7

If there is any imperfection with this couple, it’s their insatiable and
uncontrollable passion. They are greatly in love with each other, and
their sexual relationship is equally amazing. The root of their attraction
is  intellectual  convergence.  Despite  having  two  sides,  Libra  will
understand both of them. And Gemini will share the same love for art.

 .Marriage and a happy life can be expected from this combination

 Gemini and Scorpio : Very Bad .8

Their personalities are simply at war with each other. Scorpio is very
private,  whereas Gemini  is  highly social.  The purposeful  view in life
inhibited by the scorpion won’t fit well with the twin’s aimless, but full,
sense of living. Furthermore, one is emotional, passionate, demanding,
and inflexible, while the other is lighthearted, changeable, fickle, and
superficial.  If they could settle  their differences, however, they could
make  a  great  team  with  the  scorpion’s  dynamism  complementing
Gemini's imagination. Otherwise, they might as well flush every bit of

 .attraction down the toilet



Gemini and Sagittarius : Good .9

These two share the same passion for adventure, and that might have
sparked the attraction in the first place. They don’t demand too much
from  each  other,  but  they  won’t  get  along  that  well  in  bed  either.
Nobody would initiate and demonstrate what they want, and Gemini
will criticize this. With the centaur’s delicate temper, however, a simple
remark could start a quarrel. There will be a lot of weak points in this
relationship, but if enough effort is put into it, it could actually end in

 .marriage

Gemini and Capricorn : Bad .10

Whatever  interest  was  ignited  could  die  just  as  quickly,  as  soon  as
Capricorn  discovers  the  extravagant,  scatterbrained,  and  capricious
ways of the Gemini. Their personalities simply don’t match, especially
when the mountain goat shows his/her cautious and sluggish nature. If
the Gemini succeeds at distracting the Capricorn from work, however,
then a bit of romance is at bay. Otherwise, the relationship will be brief

 .and unromantic

Gemini and Aquarius : Very Good .11

Not only are they lovers, they’re best friends too. And if things work out
(which they will), they’d soon become a happy and charming husband
and  wife.  The  water  bearer  is  helplessly  attracted  to  the  Gemini's
physical  attributes.  But  what  will  tie  the twin to the unconventional
Aquarius  is  a  relationship  filled  with  surprises  and  unpredictable
changes. Both are sociable and neither is too possessive of the other.
The highlight of their love is their sexual attraction. Despite putting sex
way below in a list of priorities, the Gemini might unlock that hidden
sensuality  in the water  bearer.  Although the twin may feel  a lack of
passion from his/her partner, and this could put the relationship in a
slight disarray, other than that, every moment they share is a moment

  .to remember

Gemini and Pisces : Bad .12

There  wouldn’t  be  a  lack  of  passion  between  these  two,  but
miscommunication will ruin it all. The emotional Pisces is too sensitive
for the thoughtless and mischievous Gemini, and this can bud mistrust
from the fish. Of course, this will make the relationship unstable, and

.problems will soon outweigh the flaming attraction



Chapter 5: Cancer the Crab

Born Between June 21 and July 22

Element: Water

Ruling Planet: Moon

:Personal Traits

People  under this  sign are  represented by a crab for a reason.  Just  like  it
carries its home on its back, a Cancerian will be especially dedicated to friends
and family. They develop deep loyalty to people they care about. At the same
time, they never fail to offer a helping hand, a shoulder to cry on, or an ear to
listen to any friend in need. Though they may sound very feminine in nature,

 .they are also courageous, brave, and protective

Where the Cancerian falls, however, is when their loved ones are not meeting
their needs. Whatever they give needs to be reciprocated in some way. If they
don’t feel it, they will become clingy, shy, moody, and insecure. Despite their
nurturing and gentle nature, they won’t easily let go of the things that bring

 .them happiness

In terms of conflict and life choices, people under this sign tend to  not face
them directly. If the crab moves sideways to reach its destination, expect the

.Cancerian to do the same in these aspects

:Career Compatibilities

:Ideal Professions

Soldier, child care, human resources, gardener, CEO, teacher, social worker,
lawyer

Cancer is basically the ‘mother’ among the zodiacs. They are very sensitive,
but  at  the  same  time,  exceedingly  nurturing.  Jobs  that  require  these
characteristics will  suit them perfectly. Understand, however, that these are
not limited to working with children and caring for puppies. Mothers are in
charge of everything in the house, and so are executives in every organization;
thus, Cancerians have the right qualities needed for a high position. Because
of their nurturing side, they can offer great advice, and become very protective



of their group. Handling responsibilities won’t be much of a burden for them
 .either, and problems will be dealt with imaginatively

:Love Compatibilities

Cancer and Aries : Very Bad .1

.See Chapter 2: Aries the Ram, Love Compatibilities for description

Cancer and Taurus : Good .2

.See Chapter 3: Taurus the Bull, Love Compatibilities for description

Cancer and Gemini : Very Bad .3

.See Chapter 4: Gemini the Twin, Love Compatibilities for description

Cancer and Cancer : Bad .4

This relationship will be highly emotional and in a bad way. This couple
has too many similarities, so they will sooner criticize each other than
appreciate. Both are highly sensitive and will take the word of the other
to heart, which will then bloom as pain and hurt. The crab has a full
sense of what he/she is, a martyr and a giver, and will find it shocking
to not see the same qualities from their partner. There will be intense
sexual attraction, but once business inside the bedroom is over, they
 .will spend most of their time bickering and shoveling past up mistakes

Cancer and Leo : Very Good .5

The warmth and openheartedness of Leo is exactly what the insecure
cancer needs. Furthermore, the lion can stabilize the moodiness of the
crab.  The  only  thing  the  Leo  wants  from  cancer  is  unfaltering
admiration and flattery, especially in the bedroom. Should the crab give
way to the lion to dominate between the sheets, a lasting relationship

 .will bloom

Cancer and Virgo : Good .6



Despite  cancer  being  too  emotional,  and  Virgo  being  too  analytical,
they will make a good match. They will oversee these differences and
offer  their  best  strengths  to  build  a  good  foundation  for  their
relationship. In fact, they will care for each other too much, and it could
cause problems. They will talk about these troubles most of the time,
but will  not act on them. Other than that, however, their love making

 .will make every obstacle worth the hurdle

Cancer and Libra : Neutral .7

Libra will be drawn to cancer’s changing moods, and this might hold
them for a while.  But when troubles start  brewing,  which eventually
they  will,  then  Libra  might  search  for  someone  else  to  love.  Their
romantic needs and connection is different, after all. Cancer will aim
for  emotional  transcendence,  while  Libra  will  seek  intellectual
convergence. The balance, however, values sex. So if the crab wishes for
his/her partner to stay, a new kind of glamour and excitement needs to

 .be introduced in the bedroom

Cancer and Scorpio : Perfect .8

These two signs are made for each other. Each of their personality traits
complement and provide a stable foundation for a lasting relationship.
Scorpio is protective and dominating, the very characteristics the crab
longs for. At the same time, the possessiveness of cancer will make the
scorpion feel secure. Scorpio’s strength will be admired, while cancer’s
emotional commitment will provide a safe haven for his/her partner.
Despite  being prone to extreme jealousy,  the scorpion wouldn’t  find
any reason to spark doubt, because cancer will be fully devoted to the
relationship. Problems would also have difficulty in arising, because the

 .crab will be all about pleasing the other

Cancer and Sagittarius : Very Bad .9

Apart from having extremely different points of view, they don’t want
the same things either. Cancer will aim for stability and security from
his/her partner and a good future. Whereas the Sagittarian won’t stay
in one place, cannot assure anything in life, and only has the present in
mind.  The bedroom scene  won’t  be  fulfilling  for  the  centaur  either,
because the crab is easily satisfied. This will soon cause the Sagittarian
to  look  for  a  new  love,  which  will  then  leave  cancer  let  down  and

.possibly depressed

Cancer and Capricorn : Neutral .10



There will be great passion between the sheets, and sex will be perfect.
The attention Cancer needs, however, cannot be supplied by the serious
and ambitious Capricorn. What will be satisfied, on the other hand, is
the crab’s desire for a devoted and faithful partner, which the mountain
goat is. Life wouldn’t be exciting between these two, but since both are
quite  good  with  managing  money,  they  wouldn’t  have  financial

 .problems either

Cancer and Aquarius : Very Bad .11

The water bearer is too unpredictable for the crab. Their attraction for
each other may be brought upon by a slight excitement in the bedroom,
but beyond that, they simply don’t match. This relationship will be a
fight between extremes: conservative vs. unconventional,  stability  vs.
adventure, exploring the wonders of the world vs. personal obligations,
and more. The only way for these two signs to make it to marriage is for

 .one to submit to the other

Cancer and Pisces : Perfect .12

Emotion and passion will be the main theme of this relationship. The
kind of  affection each offers  satisfies  the needs of  the other.  Cancer
would never feel a lack in romance with the fish, while the crab will be
that  knight  in  shining  armor  lover  the  Pisces  desires.  In  terms  of
teamwork, these two can actually build each other’s dreams, with Pisces
being  the  imaginative  dreamer  and  Cancer  being  the  imaginative
worker.  Cancer  will  take  the  lead  in  the  relationship,  and  though
quarrels  will  inevitably  arise,  they  will  immediately  dissipate  in  the

.bedroom



Chapter 6: Leo the Lion

Born Between July 23 and August 22

Element: Fire

Ruling Planet: Sun

:Personal Traits

As beautiful and regal as a lion and as radiant as the sun, these traits are the
very ones that make the Leo a natural leader. Because of their warmth and
relaxed  demeanor,  people  will  normally  gravitate  towards  them.  Unlike  a
Geminid, however, people under this sign will reciprocate the adoration. Love
is  their  main  driving  force,  hence,  giving  warmth  and  ample  attention  to
others is prime. Should they not feel appreciation, Leos will feel badly hurt.

 .But if mutual love is met, expect the Leo's relationship to last

Another positive trait of this sign is their sense of righteousness. Even in times
of  desperation,  they  will  still  do  what  they  deem  is  right.  Despite  loving
material luxuries, they never forget to let their loved ones experience the same

 .wealth

People with the lion sign, on the downside, have no patience for details. They
are also prone to arrogance and extravagance and may also be inefficient as a

 .follower

:Career Compatibilities

:Ideal Professions

Performer, tour guide, CEO, fashion designer, government official, interior
designer, salesperson, real estate agent

Leos do not shy away from the spotlight, and that’s what makes great leaders.
Let them go, and let them do their thing, and they can lead a company towards
both  success  and  high  profits.  And  just  like  a  real  lion,  they  are  fearless,
independent,  and  inspiring,  an  apt  person  for  a  position  with  power  and

 .status

Micro-managing these people will also only be a source of frustration, because
Leos often have their own ways of doing things. They possess both ingenuity



and  spontaneity  anyway,  so  trust  them  to  do  well  even  without  close
 .supervision

They can be high maintenance employees, however, because they love being
treated with wealth and luxuries. And sometimes, when unleashed in team
environments, they have the tendency to disrupt whatever progress the group
is making. But they will always carry that extra charm to win over everyone

 .anyway, so all’s still good

:Love Compatibilities

Leo and Aries : Neutral .1

.See Chapter 2: Aries the Ram, Love Compatibilities for description

Leo and Taurus : Neutral .2

.See Chapter 3: Taurus the Bull, Love Compatibilities for description

Leo and Gemini : Good .3

.See Chapter 4: Gemini the Twin, Love Compatibilities for description

Leo and Cancer : Very Good .4

.See Chapter 5: Cancer the Crab, Love Compatibilities for description

Leo and Leo : Bad .5

A relationship between two rather self-centered people has no chance
of  ever  working.  Both  lions  will  be  concentrated  on  pleasing
themselves; they forget it takes two to tango, out of life’s problems, that
is.  Both, however, are creatures of unbelievable good looks, and this
physical attraction will bind them for a while. Their relationship will be
spent inside the bedroom most of the time, but love may not keep up
with their insatiable lust. If they should aim to end in marriage, both

”.should share the limelight, build the “we”, and abolish the “I

Leo and Virgo : Very Good .6



The  judgmental  maiden  is  proud  of  Leo's  humor,  warmth,  and
accomplishments,  and  she  will  provide  emotional  heat  and
understanding in their sex life. In return, Leo won’t mind Virgo's overly
critical  and  practical  tendencies  and  would  even  admire  his/her
cleverness. This will make a happy relationship, especially when Virgo

 .makes an effort to satisfy Leo

Leo and Libra : Very Good .7

Hot is the only word that can describe a Leo-Libra relationship. Both
signs  are  crazy  about  sex  and will  spend  most  of  their  time  in  the
bedroom. There  wouldn’t  be  much of  a  problem either,  in  terms of
personality traits.  The lion will  take charge, and the indecisive Libra
wouldn’t mind. Where these two don’t meet is when Leo keeps his/her
interest  to  physical  love,  while  Libra  yearns  for  an  emotional  one.
Should  these  be  left  unsettled,  they  will  cause  difficulty  in  the
relationship, and Libra will most likely concede. But if all is well, it will

 .end in a rather warm marriage

Leo and Scorpio : Bad .8

There wouldn’t be any problems here in terms of sexual attraction and
sensual loving. What will create friction, however, is Scorpio's jealousy
and  possessiveness.  Leo  will  have  a  hard  time  coping  with  this,
especially with his/her partner’s short fuse. Things can work out, but

.only the sensual side will be lit. And it may not even stay for long

Leo and Sagittarius : Perfect .9

They share exactly the same interests: adventure, meeting new people,
and freedom. But what makes them click is how Leo teaches Sagittarius
to be more faithful, and how he/she, in turn, flames inspiration in the
lion. Making love will be done as often as each desires. The beginning
of their relationship will  be all about amusement and entertainment,

 .but it can last to a happy and fulfilling marriage

Leo and Capricorn : Very Bad .10

Basically, the mountain goat wouldn’t understand the lion’s principles.
It’s easy to anger a Leo, but he/she often forgives and forgets. Though it
takes a while to tip the balance on a Capricorn, he/she would surely
never  forget.  When  money  is  concerned,  the  lion’s  extravagant
spending  and  impulsiveness  will  immediately  cause  the  Capricorn's



distaste.  And because both have the natural  inclination to dominate,
they  are  never  destined  to  make  something  remarkable  inside  the

.bedroom

Leo and Aquarius : Very Bad .11

These  two  signs  are  independent  in  their  own  terms.  Aquarius  is
focused on exploring the world, while Leo aims to live an extravagant
life.  The lion won’t  get  its  desired admiration  either,  and the  water
bearer  wouldn’t  have  much  patience  to  cope  with  his/her  partner’s

 .attempt to rule. Fire won’t burn between the sheets

Leo and Pisces : Very Bad .12

The lion and the fish wouldn’t understand each other at all. Despite the
intrigue between the two, there’s just no common ground. What the
lion cannot tolerate in the fish is its hypersensitivity, and whenever the
Pisces would encounter grief or dejection, Leo's pride wouldn’t allow
him to offer comfort. Furthermore, the lion is all about domineering,
flamboyance, and activity, while the fish settles in silence, the mystical,

.and the unworldly



Chapter 7: Virgo the Maiden

Born Between August 23 and September 22

Element: Earth

Ruling Planet: Mercury

:Personal Traits

No one  is  as  calculated  and practical  as  a  Virgo.  Their  minds never  quiet
down, constantly brewing ideas that are both functional and beautiful. Since
their element is earth, Virgos may lean towards any form of craftsmanship,
because  they  love  creating  something  with  their  own  hands.  In  terms  of
personality, these people are mild, cool, and calm. Never underestimate their
silence,  however,  because  they  are  strong  and  firm,  and  they  make  good

.strategists

When it comes to family,  they are dedicated and nurturing.  Once married,
males will take the commitment seriously and never walk away. Females, on
the other hand, will dedicate themselves to child rearing. Virgos are also one
of the kindest people around. They are so kind that they are prone to taking

.work and responsibilities beyond what they can manage

As with everything, Virgos also have flaws. Health is a big deal, and some may
lean  towards  hypochondriasis.  At the same time,  because these  people  are
opinionated,  they tend to become too judgmental,  especially  towards  those

 .who aren’t living to their potential

:Career Compatibilities

:Ideal professions

Teacher, writer, editor, critic, translator, detective, technician, statistician

No one is as fond of details and perfection as the Virgo. They are neat and tidy,
can easily spot inconsistencies, and have a really sharp memory. These are the
very traits that make them perfect for jobs that require research, writing, and
statistics.  Abstract  thinking  is  another  characteristic  that  will  play  a  huge

 .importance in this line work, and they don’t fall short of that either

Service oriented jobs will also bring out the best in a Virgo, especially those
dependent on tips. They are naturally cheerful people and can easily get along



with anyone, and this is why customers love them. In fact,  as long as their
.service can be requested, revisiting clients will surely ask for them

Another subject of great interest for the maiden is language. As long as a job
 .instills this in some way, expect the Virgo to be all over it

:Love Compatibilities

Virgo and Aries : Bad .1

.See Chapter 2: Aries the Ram, Love Compatibilities for description

Virgo and Taurus : Very Good .2

.See Chapter 3: Taurus the Bull, Love Compatibilities for description

Virgo and Gemini : Bad .3

.See Chapter 4: Gemini the Twin, Love Compatibilities for description

Virgo and Cancer : Good .4

.See Chapter 5: Cancer the Crab, Love Compatibilities for description

Virgo and Leo : Very Good .5

.See Chapter 6: Leo the Lion, Love Compatibilities for description

Virgo and Virgo : Perfect .6

Love to both Virgos will mean something more than the typical meeting
of the minds and sexual satisfaction. To them, it equates to a lifetime
partnership, making them a highly ideal couple for marriage. Because
both  are  intelligent  and  responsible,  they  will  make  a  great  team.
There’s no need to harbor different tricks in bed either, because their
pleasures are easily met. Where they could fall is in the constant battle
for leadership. Virgos also have a tendency to look for a fault in their
partner. But as long as they focus on their similarities, these wouldn’t

.matter at all



 

Virgo and Libra : Very Bad .7

Their  characteristics  are  so  polar,  their  interests  and  desires  would
never  be  met.  Libra  loves  sex  and  his/her  tastes  leans  towards  the
expensive, whereas the maiden’s focus is entirely on money and how to
spend it wisely. In terms of romance, Libras enjoy doing the intricate
dance of love, but since Virgos are straightforward on everything, they
will find this irritating and useless. Since the needs of both aren’t being

 .met, Libra won’t stick around for the tide to change

Virgo and Scorpio : Bad .8

Not all  great  friends  could end as  great  lovers.  This  story  has  been
proven by the virg0-scorpio relationship. They have a lot in common,
and this provides a good starting point for a partnership, but whenever
they’d move forward into the sexual realm, all  they do is drive each
other  away.  The  problems  will  revolve  around  differing  views  and

 .trying to keep up with one another’s temperaments

Virgo and Sagittarius : Very Bad .9

Neither signs will be getting what they need from a relationship. And
the kind of love the centaur gives will eventually drive the maiden mad.
First of all, the Sagittarian won’t make an effort to understand his/her
partner. Second, he/she cannot be tied down, and last, the centaur has
a greater thirst for sexual pleasure. All these are opposite to what the
simple  Virgo  looks  for  in  a  partner.  And  after  a  week  of  burning
passion, if ever there was any, the Sagittarian will be driven to look for

 .love elsewhere, and this will cause many fights

Virgo and Capricorn : Very Good .10

Virgo’s intelligence and practicality will combine well with Capricorn's
tenacity and self-discipline. They will get along well, especially in terms
of financial matters, and both would even be proud in the home they
built  together.  Problems  may  be  encountered  in  sex,  but  they
understand each other so well, it wouldn’t cause much of a disturbance.
Yes, romance will be lacking, but it’s not a big deal for either the Virgo

 .or Capricorn

Virgo and Aquarius : Neutral .11



Despite both being intellectual signs, they have different goals to fulfill.
The Aquarian aims to be as brilliant as possible by staying optimistic,
keeping  a  wide  circle  of  friends,  and  by  keeping  highly  active.  The
maiden,  on the other hand,  aims for efficiency in everything he/she
does, and they are not drawn to social gatherings and events, unlike the
water-bearer. A relationship can still be worked out but only as long as

 .strong feelings are present to bond them

Virgo and Pisces : Bad .12

There will be stability and compatibility because of the meeting of the
minds. When it comes to satisfying the Pisces’ many sensual desires,
however, the cautious Virgo would never comply, and this is enough

.cause for an unsuccessful marriage between the two



Chapter 8: Libra the Scale

Born Between September 23 and October 22

Element: Air

Ruling Planet: Venus

:Personal Traits

Living  up  to  their  sign,  people  born  under  Libra  are  all  about  balance.
Whether it’s between work and play, mental and physical health, or emotional
and spiritual well-being, everything will be in perfect equilibrium. Because of
this, however, when faced with problems and choices, urgency is the least that
can be expected from a Libra. It will take time before they come to a decision.
But  when they do,  everyone will  surely  benefit  from it.  Harmony between
people is another form of balance; hence, they also make good mediators for

 .conflicts

Libras are charming, self-sacrificing, and great team players. That’s why, when
treated unfairly or cheated, it will be like happiness has been taken away from
them. This does not mean, however, they won’t fight for what they perceive as
right. Libras are prepared to strip down decorum for the sake of getting their
argument across. Leading is a weak point too, but to them, being heard is what

.matters more

Talking about their favorite subjects are another thing people under this sign
love.  Aside from that,  they are drawn to exercises that stimulates both the

 .mind and body, like yoga

:Career Compatibilities

:Ideal Professions

Travel agent, supervisor, dancer, host, diplomat, negotiator, sales-person

If  Cancerians  are  the  mother-types,  then  Libras  are  the  heartthrobs.  As  if
being good looking is not enough, this sign is also charming, entertaining, and
gracious. And what makes everyone drop to their knees is their friendliness.
Libras love people, and since they are all about keeping harmony, they will
find  ways  to  make  everyone  happy.  Should  they  be  assigned  to  customer



service, expect things to go smoothly between them and a potentially angry
 .customer

If they lean towards politics and matters of the state,  they will  make great
diplomats  and  ambassadors.  They  are  highly  cooperative,  and  they  can

 .immediately establish rapport with anyone

More likely than not, however, Libras are drawn to the arts. But instead of
brooding in a dark corner to write songs, they will shine brighter when they’re

 .out there singing to people

Whatever  their  inclination,  social  environments  are  most  suited  for  these
 .people

Love Compatibilities

Libra and Aries : Neutral .1

.See Chapter 2: Aries the Ram, Love Compatibilities for description

Libra and Taurus : Bad .2

.See Chapter 3: Taurus the Bull, Love Compatibilities for description

Libra and Gemini : Perfect .3

.See Chapter 4: Gemini the Twin, Love Compatibilities for description

Libra and Cancer : Neutral .4

.See Chapter 5: Cancer the Crab, Love Compatibilities for description

Libra and Leo : Very Good .5

.See Chapter 6: Leo the Lion, Love Compatibilities for description

Libra and Virgo : Very Bad .6

.See Chapter 7: Virgo the Virgin, Love Compatibilities for description



Libra and Libra : Good .7

This love will be exhausting in good and bad ways. Both Libras are full
of  energy,  and  their  relationship  will  quickly  transform  to  a  highly
passionate  one.  Despite a rather  cheerful  partnership,  however,  they
will  demand so much from each other, they will  tire each other out.
Because of this, they will likely spend more time with others than with
each other. And since both avoid settling conflicts, their connection and

.stability could start to rumble

Libra and Scorpio : Bad .8

Jealousy  and  infidelity  will  uncontrollably  swirl  between  these  two
signs. Libra is careless by nature, and this will fire the jealousy of the
scorpion.  Despite  having  a  strong  mutual  attraction,  quarrels  will
always  be  in  the  picture,  and  what  makes  things  worse  is  Scorpio's
unreasonable  rage.  This  could  drive  Libra  to  have  an  affair  with
someone who isn’t as restricting. If there’s one thing the scorpion can’t
tolerate, however, it is infidelity,  and this will  cause the explosion of
emotions. The only way for the relationship to work is for the Scorpio

.to dominate and the Libra to submit

Libra and Sagittarius : Good .9

Sagittarius will get along with Libra, but their main problem will circle
around the centaur’s untamed spirit and independence. Libra wants a
reliable partner, and that might be too much from the Sagittarian point
of view. What will make their relationship strong is the Libra's ability to
keep his/her partner intrigued. At the same time, life is never boring
with a Sagittarius.  If  differences can be settled,  the relationship will

 .work and can flourish

 Libra and Capricorn : Very Bad .10

The  Capricorn's  strong  sexual  interest  will  be  wasted  on  Libra's
laziness.  At  the  same  time,  despite  being  highly  attracted  to  the
Capricorn's ambitiousness, Libra could not stand the mountain goat’s
practicality.  Love  in  the  bedroom  might  be  a  little  tricky  for  Libra,
because the stubborn Capricorn will  literally bring work to bed. This
relationship is not bound to last, however, because Libra will soon tire

 .of it and look for someone else

Libra and Aquarius : Very good .11



Aquarius is quirky and stubborn, but Libra will get around this through
diplomacy. Despite having clashing personality traits, it will be easier
for  them to  compromise  than  most  couples  because  of  their  strong
sensual connection. The center of their relationship will be convergence
of  Libra's  sensuality  and  Aquarius’  endless  and  erotic  games.  Libra
might fail as a lover because of oversensitivity. The water-bearer won’t
understand this,  but it  will  be overlooked. Even without perfect sex,

.their relationship will still flourish and could end in marriage

Libra and Pisces : Bad .12

Emotional needs of both signs will be satisfied, and it could have been
the source of attraction in the beginning. Once they start knowing each
other, however, they will see how incompatible they are and will soon
end  in  quarrels.  Libra  is  social  and  energetic  and  will  have  little
tolerance for Pisces’ discriminating and sulky nature. Furthermore, the
fish has a need to lean on someone and expect the person to show more
interest on him/her than everything else. This will completely drive the

.Libra away and leave the relationship for good



Chapter 9: Scorpio the Scorpion

Born Between October 23 and November 21

Element: Water

Ruling Planet: Pluto

:Personal Traits

No one can give the best advice but a Scorpio. These people won’t shower
others with bull crap just to make them feel better. Instead, they will tell the
person outright where they lack, but also point out their strengths that could
help them through their  problems. Despite the bluntness,  Scorpios are not

 .insensitive. In fact, no other sign can extend as much empathy as they do

What makes the scorpion unique is how they do not expect any reciprocation
of  emotions.  They  are  not  needy  with  attention,  but  they  do  make  great
leaders. Not only are they excellent problem solvers, their sense of justice is
infallible. Expect them to come to the aid of those who lack the ability to fight

 .for themselves

Most of the time, however, Scorpios prefer solitude. They are contemplative,
and they are drawn in knowing how people tick and work inside. Self-control
is their most defining trait, and they look for the same in others. If they are

 .provoked, however, expect them to return the aggression twice

Being  too  contemplative  has  its  drawbacks  too.  This  leads  the  Scorpio  to
pessimism and  may sometimes  cause  paranoia  and  doubt.  They  also  hold
grudges should they ever be crossed. The word “vendetta”, after all, came from

 .a Scorpio

:Career Compatibilities

:Ideal Professions

Scientist, surgeon, physicist, detective, educator, lawyer

In jobs where most people would have already died in panic, expect Scorpios
to excel in it. Whether the job is to diffuse a bomb in an active war zone, or
perform a complicated heart transplant, these people will find the focus to get
things  done.  This  is  also  what’s  special  about  them.  They  can  zone  out

 .everything else and maintain focus on the task at hand



Another line of work that may appeal to them is anything that could make
great use of their intuitiveness. They are naturally curious and, as mentioned
above,  drawn  to  know  what  makes  a  person  tick.  Should  they  become  a
detective,  interrogations  won’t  be  as  troublesome  as  it  is.  The  scorpion,
despite its size, is intimidating,  and so are the people under this sign. The
more  mysterious  a  person or  an  event  is,  the  more  it  will  appeal  to  their

.attention

Whatever job they may be in, it’s  always  best  to  let  them be.  Scorpios are
independent, and the same time, employers can put a great deal of trust in

 .them

Love Compatibility

Scorpio and Aries : Bad .1

.See Chapter 2: Aries the Ram, Love Compatibilities for description

Scorpio and Taurus : Good .2

.See Chapter 3: Taurus the Bull, Love Compatibilities for description

Scorpio and Gemini : Very Bad .3

.See Chapter 4: Gemini the Twin, Love Compatibilities for description

Scorpio and Cancer : Perfect .4

.See Chapter 5: Cancer the Crab, Love Compatibilities for description

Scorpio and Leo : Bad .5

.See Chapter 6: Leo the Lion, Love Compatibilities for description

Scorpio and Virgo : Bad .6

.See Chapter 7: Virgo the Maiden, Love Compatibilities for description



Scorpio and Libra : Bad .7

.See Chapter 8: Libra the Balance, Love Compatibilities for description

Scorpio and Scorpio : Very Bad .8

Despite being both water elements, they can light the bedroom on fire.
Beyond that, however, their similarities will also spark flames but only
to destroy the  relationship.  Both are  jealous and possessive and are
highly  demanding.  Instead  of  understanding  each  other,  they  are
bound to take little problems and make them big, which will then crack

.their relationship apart

Scorpio and Sagittarius : Bad .9

This  relationship  to  the  Sagittarian  will  be  about  fun  and  games.
Scorpio, on the other hand, will be intense about it and will make a big
fuss out of the centaur’s sense of adventure. Their passion is ideal to
ignite a memorable one night stand, but staying together for long will

.only be a waste of time

Scorpio and Capricorn : Perfect .10

The security  a  Scorpio  looks  for  in  a  partner  is  in  Capricorn.  Their
teamwork also spells perfection, because the scorpion is inventive while
the mountain goat is patient. Despite having strong personalities, the
scorpion will dominate, and the mountain goat will understand that it’s
all  due  to  great  love.  In  terms  of  sex,  the  scorpion  will  be  more
imaginative, but instead of shying away from it, Capricorn will keep up.
Marriage is a good option for these two. Not only will be passionate,

.their union will be well balanced as well

Scorpio and Aquarius : Very Bad .11

Scorpio is all about dominating and bending the other to his/her will,
but Aquarius is the very representation of freedom. This conflict will
soon make Scorpio jealous and volatile, and the restriction imposed on
the water bearer will only start problems. Sex, however, will be a one of
a kind experience, because Aquarius is imaginative, while Scorpio can
be explosive. The best way to handle this relationship, however, is to let

.it go



Scorpio and Pisces : Very Good .12

The type of possessiveness a Scorpio has is the kind of love a Pisces has
been looking for. At the same time, the dependency the fish has for
his/her lover quenches the thirst  of the scorpion to dominate.  Their
romance will  spark love at  first  sight,  and their  passion and mutual

.intensity will make love between the sheets more than delightful



Chapter 10: Sagittarius the Centaur

Born Between November 22 and December 21

Element: Fire

Ruling Planet: Jupiter

:Personal Traits

The centaur is all about pleasure, and its one true love is travelling. One habit
of this mythical creature was to shoot an arrow and follow where it landed,
then shoot it  again.  The same can be said about a Sagittarian,  in terms of
career and life, in general. Forcing them to stick to a normal routine will bore
them, or worse, make them rude and uncooperative. Because of this innate
love for adventure, they often maintain a big circle of friends. New experiences
and  wild  discoveries  make  the  Sagittarian  intelligent,  and  they  relish
intelligent conversations with people on the same level. Since they are people
persons, they are fun to be around, and they may even drag other people in

 .one of their crazy, unplanned adventures

Sagittarians are prone to making big plans. Some of them are too grand, and
they’re literally unrealistic. And people under this sign always end up trashing
the idea, not because they can’t do it, but because they get easily distracted.
Once a more exciting adventure comes to mind, they’d drop the first without

 .second thoughts

:Career Compatibilities

:Ideal Professions

Anything that involves travelling, coach, animal trainer, minister, public
relations, editor

Because of their outgoing nature and their love for adventure and travelling,
chaining  them  to  routine  work  will  literally  bring  them  to  their  deaths.
Sagittarians require great spaces to move and to shine, and they will work best

 .in situation where they can expend their excessive energy

The centaurs also have a potential to become great bosses because of their
excellent decision-making skills and easygoing personality. Diffusing tensions
and conflicts won’t be much of a problem for them either. Their witty humor,



tact,  and fun-loving and likeable  nature can settle  any differences between
 .subordinates and coworkers

The line of work Sagittarians should consider are those that involve nature,
the environment,  counseling, animals,  and even religion.  Though they may
not show it most of the time, they are highly spiritual. And these jobs will give

.them the right sense of fulfillment and purpose

:Love Compatibilities

Sagittarius and Aries : Very Good .1

.See Chapter 2: Aries the Ram, Love Compatibilities for description

Sagittarius and Taurus : Bad .2

.See Chapter 3: Taurus the Bull, Love Compatibilities for description

Sagittarius and Gemini : Good .3

.See Chapter 4: Gemini the Twin, Love Compatibilities for description

Sagittarius and Cancer : Very Bad .4

.See Chapter 5: Cancer the Crab, Love Compatibilities for description

Sagittarius and Leo : Perfect .5

.See Chapter 6: Leo the Lion, Love Compatibilities for description

Sagittarius and Virgo : Very Bad .6

.See Chapter 7: Virgo the Maiden, Love Compatibilities for description

Sagittarius and Libra : Good .7

.See Chapter 8: Libra the Balance, Love Compatibilities for description



Sagittarius and Scorpio : Bad .8

See  Chapter  9:  Scorpio  the  Scorpion,  Love  Compatibilities  for
.description

Sagittarius and Sagittarius : Neutral .9

Sex between two centaurs will  be very kinky.  They’re open to trying
anything and everything, even orgies, and as a couple, they’d be highly
unpredictable. No one could ever guess what they have in mind or what
they’ll do next. But both always have different roads to follow. Their
meeting will more likely be brought by chance, and the spark will come
from the same taste for adventure.  Eventually,  they will  go separate
ways,  but  on good terms.  In fact,  they could even become longtime

.friends

Sagittarius and Capricorn : Very Bad .10

The Sagittarius is open to everything, while the Capricorn has a closed
and fixed sense  of  being.  Frustrations  will  arise  from the Capricorn
once the centaur shows his/her carelessness and irresponsibility. At the
same time, the Sagittarian will find it difficult to drag the old mountain
goat wherever he/she wants to go. There’s no amazing sex life to save

.the relationship either. It will be frustrating for both sides

Sagittarius and Aquarius : Perfect .11

Apart from having great intellectual  connection and chemistry, these
two will have one of the best sexual relationships among the zodiacs.
The interesting imaginations of the Aquarian will  blaze their sensual
pleasures by introducing something new, which will tickle the fancy of
the Sagittarian. They are both unpredictable, highly active, and loved
by everyone around them. The inventive ideas of the water bearer could
happen with the help of the centaur’s optimism. Being both outgoing

.and sociable, almost nothing can get between their relationships

Sagittarius and Pisces : Bad .12

The sheets will be in flames between these two signs, but outside the
bedroom, their  incompatibility  will  shine even brighter.  The centaur
will  feel  smothered  by  the  Pisces’  suffocating  need  for  love  and



attention. Sagittarius will also feel restrained by the fish’s shy nature.
There’s no hope for these two to work. Should they end in marriage, it

.will be a heavily complicated one



Chapter 11: Capricorn the Mountain
Goat

Born Between December 22 and January 19

Element: Earth

Ruling Planet: Saturn

:Personal Traits

Among all the signs, no one is more driven to succeed than people under this
sign. This is why they are given the mountain goat as a figure. They have the
need to climb the top, and at the same time, they have the right focus and
footing to do so. Above all else, Capricorns are hard-working. They are more
than willing to put in hours for countless nights, as long as it will lead to their
goal. This is also why many of the world’s renowned leaders, mathematicians,
teachers,  and  scientists  often  belong  under  this  sign.  Their  decisions  will
always  be  realistic  and  logical,  and  they  immediately  see  the  bottom line,

 .which makes them ideal partners in both love and career

They may have a shortage of humor, however. Or if they do have a sense of
humor, it is often in the form of sarcasm, which can only be understood by the
quick-witted. Capricorns may also look dull and lifeless to most. Their heads

 .are so focused on achieving, they show very little emotions

There will also be times when Capricorns may look selfish. They have a habit
of  guarding  their  hearts,  and  because  of  this,  they  tend  to  be  secretive.
Sometimes, they will also withhold valuable information for personal strategic

 .leverage

:Career Compatibilities

:Ideal Professions

Banker, editor, administrator, IT, manager, and anything related to science

No word best describes Capricorns but ‘ambitious’. They will do whatever it
takes to succeed. And no matter how critical or difficult things become, trust
them to endure just like the mountain goats climb on even the tiniest crags to



reach the top. This persistence is what drives them to work hard and put in
 .long hours just to get things done

Should they become bosses or leaders, expect them to be strict when it comes
to schedules and quotas. They will even go as far as enforcing rules to prevent
delays and possible internal problems. Despite being highly responsible, many
will  savor the power.  But this  shouldn’t  be much cause for worry,  because

 .Capricorns are also conscientious

Whatever work it will be, as long as it needs to be done and done right, look
 .for no other but a Capricorn

:Love Compatibilities

Capricorn and Aries : Very Bad .1

.See Chapter 2: Aries the Ram, Love Compatibilities for description

Capricorn and Taurus : Perfect .2

.See Chapter 3: Taurus the Bull, Love Compatibilities for description

Capricorn and Gemini : Bad .3

.See Chapter 4: Gemini the Twin, Love Compatibilities for description

Capricorn and Cancer : Neutral .4

.See Chapter 5: Cancer the Crab, Love Compatibilities for description

Capricorn and Leo : Very Bad .5

.See Chapter 6: Leo the Lion, Love Compatibilities for description

Capricorn and Virgo : Very Good .6

.See Chapter 7: Virgo the Maiden, Love Compatibilities for description

Capricorn and Libra : Very Bad .7



.See Chapter 8: Libra the Balance, Love Compatibilities for description

Capricorn and Scorpio : Perfect .8

See  Chapter  9:  Scorpio  the  Scorpion,  Love  Compatibilities  for
.description

Capricorn and Sagittarius : Very Bad .9

See  Chapter  10:  Sagittarius  the  Centaur,  Love  Compatibilities  for
.description

Capricorn and Capricorn : Neutral .10

Capricorn upholds people who share the same values with them. This
means  having  another  Capricorn  for  a  partner  will  bloom  a  good
partnership  and  even  greater  teamwork.  The  problem  will  be  how
boring the relationship will  be.  No one will  introduce new things to
spice things up a bit.  Both will  be so serious with their careers that,
instead of building a good and exciting relationship, they’re alienating

 .themselves from each other

Capricorn and Aquarius : Bad .11

Career-wise, unpredictable Aquarius will jump from one job to another,
discovering  what  the  world  has  in  store.  This  will  make  the  stable
Capricorn shudder. Apart from that, their incompatibility stretches to
the  Aquarian's  incapacity  to  stick  to  the  norm,  which  is  what  the
mountain goat is all  about. Should there be romance, these two will
later  realize  that  what  they  had  shared  together  has  turned  to

 .friendship, a better status than a romantic one

Capricorn and Pisces : Perfect .12

Despite having nothing in common at all, these two signs will have the
right  emotions  to  support  each  other.  Capricorn  will  dominate  the
relationship,  and  the  stability  the  mountain  goat  will  impose  shall
prevent the fish from drifting in directionless dreaminess. At the same
time, the Pisces will give joy to the Capricorn with his/her admiration,
affection,  and  sincerity.  They  are  perfect  for  each  other,  and  their
relationship will last. Even if the Pisces might eventually cheat, which is



in the very nature of this sign, the mountain goat will cope with it and
.won’t leave the fish



Chapter 12: Aquarius the Water
Bearer

Born Between January 20 and February 18

Element: Air

Ruling Planet: Uranus

:Personal Traits

Being the water bearer, it is an Aquarian's nature to be generous with their
time  and  resources.  They  are  driven  by  the  need  to  help,  which  makes
occupations that contribute to humanitarian causes appealing. Their greatest
concern, after all, is the welfare of others. This is also why the Aquarian is a
stranger to none. They are one of the friendliest people, and they will even go

 .out of their way to reconnect with friends they have not seen for years

Aquarians, however, don’t always connect on an emotional level. Since they
help  people  a  lot,  they  tend  to  avoid  getting  themselves  too  personally
involved.  Connecting  the  mind  is  more  important  to  them,  and  a  steady

 .exchange of ideas fascinates them more

Despite having the need to constantly help, they also crave for alone time. In
fact, every Aquarian needs to be given time to meditate and reflect. Otherwise,
they have the tendency to become emotionless and sour and may even slink to

 .depression

:Career Compatibilities

:Ideal Professions

Designer, musician, inventor, organic farmer, aviator, scientist

Most Aquarians  are  eccentric,  and no corporate  career  may be  compatible
with them. In fact, they rebel against it because of their need for freedom of
movement and thought. But career compatibility is the last thing Aquarians
worry  about,  because  they  might  just  come  up  with  their  own  unique
profession if nothing out there suits their needs. If not, they could always take

 .any unconventional job with openings



If  work  involves  humanitarian  movements,  this  might  just  catch  their
attention. As explained above, Aquarians are all about helping and generosity.
And as long as they have time and energy on their hands, they won’t  give

 .second thoughts to get involved

On the other hand, catch an Aquarian's attention by seeking help in conjuring
avant-garde ideas. If there’s one thing they can do, it’s not doing things in the

 .same old boring way

:Love Compatibilities

Aquarius and Aries : Bad .1

.See Chapter 2: Aries the Ram, Love Compatibilities for description

Aquarius and Taurus : Very Bad .2

.See Chapter 3: Taurus the Bull, Love Compatibilities for description

Aquarius and Gemini : Very Good .3

.See Chapter 4: Gemini the Twin, Love Compatibilities for description

Aquarius and Cancer : Very Bad .4

.See Chapter 5: Cancer the Crab, Love Compatibilities for description

Aquarius and Leo : Very Bad .5

.See Chapter 6: Leo the Lion, Love Compatibilities for description

Aquarius and Virgo : Neutral .6

.See Chapter 7: Virgo the Maiden, Love Compatibilities for description

Aquarius and Libra : Very Good .7

.See Chapter 8: Libra the Balance, Love Compatibilities for description



Aquarius and Scorpio : Very Bad .8

See  Chapter  9:  Scorpio  the  Scorpion,  Love  Compatibilities  for
.description

Aquarius and Sagittarius : Perfect .9

See  Chapter  10:  Sagittarius  the  Centaur,  Love  Compatibilities  for
.description

Aquarius and Capricorn : Bad .10

See Chapter 11: Capricorn the Mountain Goat, Love Compatibilities for
.description

Aquarius and Aquarius : Good .11

They share the same views, they have the same unconventional tastes,
and  they  both  pursue  intellectual  growth.  In  other  words,  two
Aquarians are highly compatible. Where their relationship will fail  is
when deep feelings for each other just can’t develop. They’re both so

.focused on the intellectual side, they end up having no sex life at all

 

Aquarius and Pisces : Bad .12

Chemistry will rule in the beginning, but once the Pisces asks for too
much from the Aquarian, everything will go on an instant downward
spiral. Pisces will demand attention as proof of the other’s love, but the
Aquarian will find this suffocating and might end up depressed. Since
the  water  bearer  believes  individuality  should  be  developed  in
everyone, the fish’s insistence that he/she be put in the center of the
other’s  life  will  give him/her enough reason to cut their  ties  and go
separate  ways.  At  the  same  time,  Pisces  will  view  Aquarius  as

.unsympathetic



Chapter 13: Pisces the Fish

Born Between February 19 and March 20

Element: Water

Ruling Planet: Neptune

:Personal Traits

Pisceans are signified by the fish, because they are very secretive. Fish live in
water, and this makes them mysterious and sometimes unfathomable. Despite
their dedication, passion, and compassion, they don’t easily reveal themselves
to  others.  Once  they  do,  however,  these  few  selected  souls  are  lucky  to

 .experience the inner vibrancy and life of these gentle people

As  if  truly  living  underwater,  people  born  under  this  sign  also  have  little
worlds of their own inside their heads. They love daydreaming, and this often

 .leads to brilliant ideas and unthinkable imaginations

Deep concern for the happiness of others, especially of the less fortunate, fuels
the average Piscean. It doesn’t look like it on the surface, but they feel very
deeply for everyone. This, however, is also why this sign is the most indecisive.
No matter what, the feelings of others will come first, and they will try hard
not hurt them, so they are constantly afraid that their decision may end up
hurting someone. This very trait makes them  not an ideal leader, but great

 .support personnel

So much like their element, where the slightest touch can disrupt the calmness
of the surface, Pisceans are very sensitive. They worry about everything, even
when there’s nothing to be concerned about. And this is also rooted in their

 .desire to keep everyone happy

:Career Compatibility

:Ideal Professions

Nurse, physical therapist, psychologist, philanthropist, veterinarian, artist

Pisceans don’t actually work. They live out their passion, and earning from it
is just a plus. The arts tug at their soul, and they excel in them, that’s why
there’s a high likelihood these fish will either be in dance, photography, music,

 .or any other form of traditional art



Should they be tasked to create something, they would often come up with
novel  designs  and  ideas.  When  styling  someone’s  hair,  for  example.  They
won’t simply ride the trend and give their client a modern haircut. They will
always add that signature style that will define the person, so the haircut will

 .be the person. This is all due to their deep intuition

 .Work that requires extending compassion will also appeal to Pisceans

:Love Compatibilities

Pisces and Aries : Good .1

.See Chapter 2: Aries the Ram, Love Compatibilities for description

Pisces and Taurus : Perfect .2

.See Chapter 3: Taurus the Bull, Love Compatibilities for description

Pisces and Gemini : Bad .3

.See Chapter 4: Gemini the Twin, Love Compatibilities for description

Pisces and Cancer : Perfect .4

.See Chapter 5: Cancer the Crab, Love Compatibilities for description

Pisces and Leo : Very Bad .5

.See Chapter 6: Leo the Lion, Love Compatibilities for description

Pisces and Virgo : Bad .6

.See Chapter 7: Virgo the Maiden, Love Compatibilities for description

Pisces and Libra : Bad .7

.See Chapter 8: Libra the Balance, Love Compatibilities for description



Pisces and Scorpio : Very Good .8

See  Chapter  9:  Scorpio  the  Scorpion,  Love  Compatibilities  for
.description

Pisces and Sagittarius : Bad .9

See  Chapter  10:  Sagittarius  the  Centaur,  Love  Compatibilities  for
.description

Pisces and Capricorn : Perfect .10

See Chapter 11: Capricorn the Mountain Goat, Love Compatibilities for
.description

Pisces and Aquarius : Bad .11

See Chapter 12: Aquarius the Water Bearer,  Love Compatibilities for
.description

Pisces and Pisces : Very Good .12

These two will give the sympathy each other needs, and this sparks the
intimacy  that  makes  Pisces-Pisces  love  immaculate.  Since  both  are
dreamers, however, they are at danger of drifting too far from reality.
But  if  they  hold  on  to  each  other,  they  will  conquer  this  and  stay

.anchored and strong



Conclusion

Everyone will always have the option to believe in astrology or not. Some, after
all, will find the thought of stars leading their lives to be ridiculous. And it
might just be. But what will one have to lose in believing? Nothing. And what

 .could one possibly gain from at least knowing about it? Everything

A million possibilities could have happened but didn’t. This is a fine mixture
of  fate  and  choice,  a  movement  that  even  science  still  has  no  way  of
explaining. And this is what astrology is about. When predictions are made,
and when compatibilities are measured, it never imposes these were true and
accurate. What it promises, however, is a better choice, a happier ending than

 .what one is inclined to make, and all it takes is to believe