BIRTH CHART

10 9
11 8

12 7

1 6

2 5
3 4

Zodiac signs Naomie Planet Symbols

 Aries Sun 
February 26, 1998 at 5:03 PM

 Taurus
Japan, Central Java, Indonesia Moon 

 Gemini Mercury 
 Cancer Venus 
 Leo Mars 
 Virgo Jupiter 
 Libra Saturn
 Scorpio Uranus 
 Sagittarius Neptune 
 Capricorn Pluto 
 Aquarius Chiron 
 Pisces Pisces

Ascendant 
MC 

North Node 



PLANETS

You can think of the planets as symbolizing core parts of the human personality, and the signs as different
colors of consciousness through which they filter through.

 Sun in 7  Pisces  Neptune in 1  Aquarius

 Moon in 3  Pisces  Pluto in 8  Sagittarius

 Mercury in 11  Pisces  North Node in 10  Virgo

 Venus in 25  Capricorn  Chiron in 18  Scorpio

 Mars in 25  Pisces  Ascendant in 22  Leo

 Jupiter in 5  Pisces  MC in 29  Taurus

 Saturn in 17  Aries

 Uranus in 10  Aquarius

ASPECTS

The aspects describe the geometric angles between the planets. The orb is the range, up to which an aspect is
considered active. A tighter aspect indicates a stronger influence.

 Venus Sextile Mars orb: 0  Sun Opposition North Node orb: 3

 Sun Square Pluto orb: 1  Sun Conjunction Mercury orb: 4

 Mercury Opposition North Node orb: 1  Sun Conjunction Moon orb: 4

 Uranus Sextile Pluto orb: 2  Moon Square Pluto orb: 5

 Pluto Square North Node orb: 2  Saturn Trine Ascendant orb: 5

 Moon Conjunction Jupiter orb: 2  Mars Sextile Neptune orb: 6

 Sun Conjunction Jupiter orb: 2  Venus Conjunction Neptune orb: 6

 Neptune Trine MC orb: 2  Mercury Conjunction Jupiter orb: 6

 Jupiter Square Pluto orb: 3  Moon Conjunction Mercury orb: 8

 Mercury Square Pluto orb: 3



PLANETS IN DEPTH

This section describes the significance of each planet's placement in its respective sign. While the inner planets
(Sun to Jupiter) reflect core parts of the individual personality, the slow-moving outer planets (Saturn to Pluto)
are thought to reflect more abstract and collective energies.

 Sun's symbolism  Pisces's symbolism
The ego and will  Transcendence
Center of gravity Going with the flow
One's approach to self-realization Diffusing
Self-expression Dreamy, mystical
Where one seeks to shine Imagination
Inner Animus

Sun in 7  Pisces

Pisces is represented by two fish swimming in unison, both with their mouths at the
tail of the other. The two fish represent the integration and balancing of two
polarities. The dance brings them in unison, symbolizing a cosmic oneness and
unity. Their fishy nature symbolizes that they are swimming in the ocean of pure
consciousness, transcending the physical dimension.

The Pisces path involves learning to let go, let be, and go with the flow. Pisces's
approach is trusting over doubting; one prefers to see pervasive love, a sea of
compassion. One trusts the unfolding, knowing there is no need to force things
into place.

Developing a deep connection to one's own inner guidance is key. As we are
happier, brighter, we are hearing our spirit. Optimism opens our mind to
opportunities, and then one can see clarity through murky waters. Pisces excels at
understanding that sometimes the whole path is not lit up, one just must move
forward to the best of their ability, toward more positivity and more optimism. 

This takes an emotional willingness to see the best in things, to be a pollyanna.
Pisces's approach is to be less judgmental and critical while learning the art of
allowing things to be as they are. As one allows themselves too to just be as they
are, they allow soothing, gentle healing wash over them like a wave. 



When one feels good, when one feels in touch with themselves, and is happy, one
attracts those things to oneself as well. Sometimes its not important to figure out
the details of how x,y,z may occur. One has to be willing to believe in themselves
and believe in their dream. While others can get stuck on the likelihood or
probability, Pisces wants to dream.

On the other hand, Pisces can get stuck in fantasy, unsure of how to practically
move forward. Pisces's traits are balanced by its opposite sign: Virgo. Virgo's
approach is to take self-responsibility and be willing to move forward to make
things happen; its approach is to develop and hone skillfulness and efficiency; its
approach is to trust one's innate nature, and develop an inner compass.

As one deepens on their path of self-awareness, one allow themselves to dream,
and to be receptive to allowing things to unfold naturally. At the same time, one
can enjoy the opportunities that arise, getting their hands in the clay, molding
their creation or passion into life.

 Moon's symbolism  Pisces's symbolism
The emotions  Transcendence
Intuitive nature Going with the flow
One's temperament and Diffusing
moodiness Dreamy, mystical
How one nourishes oneself Imagination
Need for security
Inner Anima

Moon in 3  Pisces

Moon in Pisces' nature is adaptable and easy going. She floats with a breezy and
carefree attitude, intuitively drawn down the easy path, the effortless path. Moon
in Pisces trusts that things just have a way of working themselves out; more often
than not, her flexible and positive approach means that things often do. On an
individual level, the Moon symbolizes one's emotional realm and how one
nurtures themselves; whereas, Pisces seeks to go with the flow; it seeks to allow
themselves to get swept up by the profound feelings of their imagination; it seeks
to cultivate a deep compassion for oneself, rather than keeping score of oneself
and demanding relentless standards of perfection.



Pisces Moons wear rose-colored lenses; they see the best in everything they
encounter. However, sometimes they deliberately ignore the uncomfortable
truths, rather than listening to their intuition—ignorance is bliss as they say. When
they listen to their intuition, sometimes they feel called to make big changes, and,
in that moment, they have to be willing to assert their voice.

People with this placement are naturally oriented towards a compassionate
perspective, but they really thrive when applying that compassion towards
themselves. Cultivating compassion and taking it easy does not mean one breaks
away from their dreams or lets go of them in their perfect fullness, but rather that
one allows themselves to find inspiration from the present. One, ultimately, learns
to be kind and gentle to oneself on the path.

 Mercury's symbolism  Pisces's symbolism
Mental approach  Transcendence
Communication style Going with the flow
Reflexes, sensitivity of the nervous Diffusing
system Dreamy, mystical
Sociability Imagination

Mercury in 11  Pisces

Symbol: Pisces is represented by two fish swimming in unison, both with their
mouths at the tail of the other. The two fish represent the integration and
balancing of two polarities. The dance brings them in unison, symbolizing a
cosmic oneness and unity. Their aquatic nature symbolizes that they are
swimming in the ocean of pure consciousness, transcending the physical
dimension.

Expression: You are drawn to abstract thinking, whether it be complex math or
intangible phenomena. Your speech is likely anything but linear; it is not unusual
for it to be filled with metaphors or symbolic language; however, for some people,
it can be vague and come across as lacking clarity, but, perhaps, you sometimes
rather speak in poetry than be understood.



You value your vivid imagination, and you may speak more about your fantasies
and possible alternate realities than most people. By doing so, you can express
the incredible value of dreaming about your ideal life. What we choose to think
about, we create more of in our lives. It's important though to gather more clarity
and discernment about what you're giving screen time to—which thoughts are you
allowing yourself to think over and over again? Do they make you feel good? By
talking about your dreams and your highest visions, you start to make room for
belief.

 Venus's symbolism  Capricorn's symbolism
Romantic self  Self-reliance
Sensual self Self-responsibility
Style of creative expression Making one's mark
Aesthetic taste Self-mastery
How one attracts and what Stability
one is attracted to

Venus in 25  Capricorn

Good things come to those who wait. You're patient and dedicated when it
comes to relationships. You're not willing to settle for "close enough" because
you're holding out for magic. You're looking for the authentic thing. Holding out
requires a high degree of focus, stamina, and inner strength. It can be easier to
just settle and take the best offer, particularly when you're hungry for something.
But you're looking for something deep, enduring, and resonant.

You're attracted by people of quality: inwardly secure and self-reliant. Because
this can take some time to recognize, it's useful to watch out for the potential of
being too guarded or defensive in your approach. You may fear unhealthy
emotional entanglement like a relationship with too many strings attached. You
can feel the difference between fear and intuition when something is a bad idea.
It feels right when it's coming from a place of self-worth, knowing you're worth
the wait.



 Mars's symbolism  Pisces's symbolism
How one uses their energy  Transcendence
How one takes action Going with the flow
One's sexual nature Diffusing
One's pioneering or enterprising Dreamy, mystical
side Imagination
What sparks your passion

Mars in 25  Pisces

Like the force of the ocean, you have a quiet power when it comes to your goals
that it can be quite magnificent and awe-inspiring when you focus your efforts. In
contrast, your attitude is often "go with the flow". You respond to the in-the-
moment unfolding rather than force an objective into place. You often find this is
the healthiest approach, despite the perception of being passive or lazy. 

Your logic is about not wasting your energy on trivial matters because you may
not have energy when it might actually matter. But, going with the flow is also
not about aimlessly wandering. It’s actually a creative experience of being
inspired to action, and, then, it's about releasing control and allowing yourself to
wait until the muse of inspiration visits again.

It’s about letting yourself tune into the rhythm of your emotions and intuitions and
letting their inspiration guide you. It's appropriate that Pisces is associated with
the water element, specifically the ocean, because what you really seek to do is
"surf" the energy of the moment. You need to be alert and daring to catch the
wave but soft and open to the present moment.

 Jupiter's symbolism  Pisces's symbolism
The urge to expand, explore  Transcendence
Where one operates in a Going with the flow
'big way' Diffusing
One's tendency to overdo Dreamy, mystical
Search for understanding Imagination
Where you want life to be easy

Jupiter in 5  Pisces



You believe in the ethereal world—the world of dreams and imagination. You’re
ready to do whatever it takes to feel joy, and this is a deep intuitive wisdom you
harbour. In practical terms, it could mean ignoring the naysayers and focusing on
the knowledge of your inner beliefs, or it could mean tuning out the stories of
improbabilities and visualizing your dream until you can taste it, feel it and touch
it. Either way, you have a gift of bridging the metaphysical with the physical.

Of course, this can approach can be extreme if you are unwilling to take
reasonable and valuable advice into account; however, you can feel the
difference between intentionally belief, even if it's not easy to, and wilful escapism.

It’s very important to you to cultivate your spiritual life. It may not always be your
default mode of operating, but it's an approach that feels expanding to you. You
can access the answers you seek with more clarity through a spiritual practice.

However, a spiritual practice won’t stop unwanted things from happening, but it
does help you handle the inevitable hardships of life. As you choose to know
yourself deeper through yoga or meditation, the weight in your practical life has a
way of slowly dissipating away.

 Saturn's symbolism  Aries's symbolism
Urge for stability, self-reliance  Bold and initiating
The structures in one's life Selfhood is paramount
One's attitude toward self- Strong drive
discipline Direct and uncomplicated
How one concentrates and focuses Thriving when challenged
their energy

Saturn in 17  Aries

As one of the first slow-moving outer planets, Saturn influences the chart
abstractly rather than concretely. Its presence suggests, especially towards your
goals, you're highly motivated and connected to your personal wants and drive.
You want to live in the fast lane, fulfilling a fast-paced lifestyle fuelled by
excitement and danger.



At the same time, you can be headstrong about your choices. You move on
impulse rather than objectivity. You can lack patience, which fuels a growing
frustration about your apparent lack of discipline. At your best, your personal
obstacles help you hone in on how to come up with solutions to make things faster
and easier for yourself and others.

 Uranus's symbolism  Aquarius's symbolism
Flashes of insight  Free-spirited
Where and how we seek change Visionary, forward-thinking
Our desire to emancipate Galvanizing
and liberate Embracing uniqueness

Valuing personal freedom

Uranus in 10  Aquarius

As a far-away outer planet, the effect of Uranus has a more abstract influence on
the personality relating to how one seeks change or improvement in their
environment. Uranus is at home in Aquarius, as it is its planetary ruler. 

With this placement, one often has an approach of defying existing structures in
order to give birth to something new - something that more accurately reflects on
the people rather than the establishment. One sees the value of being an
instigator, a provocateur, rather than to sit idly by as one's power or freedom is
being slowly encroached upon. You see the benefit of being the electrifying spark
which starts a broader movement, by simply having the courage to speak your
own truth and be an anomaly. 

Yet, you can fall into the trap of being disruptive of previous conventions, even
when there is no particular reason to do so. Even so, when the benefit of this
placement is tapped into, it awakens a desire to impact change through groups
or on a larger social scale paired with an understanding that how you live your
own life is where your power begins. And, your power has weight.



 Neptune's symbolism  Aquarius's symbolism
Our imaginative realm  Free-spirited
Our visions, dreams, fantasies Visionary, forward-thinking
Illusions and deception Galvanizing

Embracing uniqueness
Valuing personal freedom

Neptune in 1  Aquarius

As a far-away outer planet, the effect of Neptune has a more abstract influence
on the personality. Neptune's energy itself seeks to diffuse thoughts and activate
the imagination, moving away from the concrete and tangible. Dreaming is the
act of building something new — pivoting in a new direction, though the details
may be unclear and foggy. With Neptune in Aquarius, this energy activates the
attributes associated with Aquarius: being an instigator and provocateur; defying
the establishment; celebrating the power of the individual; being an revolutionary
who awakens others to know the value of their voice and uniqueness; being open
to unconventional thinking and a willingness to embrace the cutting-edge of
change; practising an humanitarian impulse to uplift the greater community.

 Pluto's symbolism  Sagittarius's symbolism
Transformative and regenerative  Spontaneous
cultural changes Uninhibited expression
Exposing the underworld Abstract; Big picture
Awareness of dormant capacities Audacious

Explorative

Pluto in 8  Sagittarius

As Pluto is the furthest planet from the Sun, it reflects most abstractly on the
personality. Also because it is slow-moving in the sky, its placement defines a
generation more than an individual. The Pluto in Sagittarius generation was born
between 1995 and 2008.

Pluto delves into the collective unconscious — the things unsaid and ignored. It
dives deeply into this underworld to bring these themes back to the surface. Once
these themes are brought back to light, there is an opportunity for collective
healing and regeneration around these themes. 



Pluto in Sagittarius exposes areas where we haven't been expanding our
awareness and broadening our worldview. The world keeps getting "smaller" in a
way. Meanwhile, this energy exposes the folly of having a rigid mindset, and how
destructive that mentality can be on a personal and societal level.

Sagittarius also deeply values free and uninhibited expression, and, thus, it seeks
to unearth where these are restrained on a personal and collective level. This
energy brings a lasting openness and acceptance of our diversity; it also brings
more appreciation of how our different individual approaches can offer value to
everyone.

 Ascendant's symbolism  Leo's symbolism
One's vibe  Courageous
One's mask Liberated self-expression
The impression one makes Entertainer
Appearance Center of attention

Playful

Ascendant in 22  Leo

The Ascendant reflects our external mask—how we come off to others. This is the
face you show to the world, but not necessarily to those who know you well (that is
reflected more by the Sun and Moon).

With a Leo Ascendant, you have a knack of attracting attention—good and bad.
This is likely because you revel in expressing yourself. You don't like to be muted in
the background, so you like to take the opportunity to make a statement and
have fun with your expression. You just want to exhibit a sunny, playful
personality. This is reflected in you colorful and flamboyant style. 

You may have an air of drama around you as you play the role of the performer,
the showman, or the actress in your circle; with this, you may be embodying the
diva qualities of bossiness too. Similarly, you should watch out for being overly
vain and domineering but, rather, reach for genuine feelings of self-love.



 North Node's symbolism  Virgo's symbolism
Qualities one is learning to  Clarity
embody in this life Skillfulness
Life lessons Detailed; Intricacy
(South Node, the opposite point in Sense of order
the chart are the qualities that Natural, unaffected
come natural to us)

North Node in 10  Virgo

The North Node represents the qualities one is learning to embody in this life:
practising your social skills and cooperation; having a capacity to cultivate
positive reactions and support from other people; increasing awareness of other
people's perspectives; creating mutually beneficial situations with people.

 Chiron's symbolism  Scorpio's symbolism
Point of pain, as well as source of  Depth
healing Emotionally embodied

Meaning and significance
Embracing the mystery and enigma
Sharp, perceptive

Chiron in 18  Scorpio

You thirst for intimate experiences and the healing nature of deep passion and
love. However, you may fear your own sensitivity and prefer to hide under masks
rather than expressing yourself honestly. Healing begins by being authentic with
yourself and embarking on a journey of self-knowledge. As you deepen in your
self-acceptance, you can fearlessly attract the experiences you are looking for.



 MC's symbolism  Taurus's symbolism
Your approach to career  Receptive; easy-going
Public persona Beauty, aesthetics, senses

Comfort, stability
Grounded; persistent
Inner stillness and contentment

MC in 29  Taurus

A Taurus midheaven suggests you seek an artistic and practical career path that
makes you feel and express your pleasures. It, also, may indicate an interest in
land and real estate.



ASPECTS IN DEPTH

The descriptions here are written explaining the aspect's positive qualities and potential gifts, as well as its
unbalanced expression. The idea is that the individual has the capacity to direct their energy.

 Venus in Capricorn symbolism Mars in Pisces symbolism
Attracted to independence Drawn to mystical and ethereal endeavors
An introverted creativestyle A free-flowing energetic spirit
Practical aesthetic tastes Imaginative enterprising nature
Stable and enduring love Achieving higher states of sexual interaction

Sextile symbolism
Cooperative energies 
Energies in friendship 
Concious effort required to reveal gifts of
this placement

 

Venus Sextile Mars

With this placement, there is an activated relationship between the feminine and
masculine within, reconciling your love of both the physical and emotional side of
romance.

You’re often a flirt who is pleasure-loving and sensual; you enjoy flirty banter and
don't mind fishing for a compliment or two. At the same time, you ooze sexuality,
and you enjoy the physicality of sex. You aren’t afraid to be a hopeless romantic —
speaking in poetry, buying your lover flowers, or showing affection. Rather than
coming off as cliche, you have a way of exuding charisma in whatever you do.
You've a way of simply sweeping people off their feet.

 When this pattern is excessive, you can be vain and give way too much credence to  

how people perceive you. You may be addicted to attracting connections, which
can quickly become chaotic, yet they never last. These can be used as a means of
compensating for your feelings of insecurity.

 As you feel more secure in your romantic energy, you cultivate more balance.  

You’re comfortable being an affectionate, loving person without much expectation
of how you will be received back. You simply love loving, and it fuels you. You feel
confident when diving into romantic relationships, secure in what you have to offer.



 Sun in Pisces symbolism  Pluto in Sagittarius symbolism
Going with the flow Seeks to exude optimism as they see
Dreamy, mystical expression endless opportunities 
Strong imagination Raising self-awareness through knowledge
Abstract thinking acquisition

Square symbolism
Tension 
Difficulty balancing energies 
Stimulating, challenging, motivating

 

Sun Square Pluto

You operate in a black and white manner — if you like something, you devote
100% of your being into it. To some people you're an enigma. You keep few
connections, but the few you have are pure, genuine, and intimate. You don’t
operate on the surface level; you delve deep looking for transformative
experiences. You're a highly intuitive being. You trust your gut and act accordingly.

Understandably, as you fully immerse yourself under the waterfall of all you do,
you are weary of new people who come into your life. You move cautiously into
experiences, testing the frigidness of the water first. At its extreme, you may find
yourself overly distrustful of others, to the point of manipulating others in order to
compensate for the lack of control your feel. Letting go of inner-turmoil will allow
you to undergo the powerful cathartic experiences that you seek.

 Mercury in Pisces symbolism  North Node in Virgo symbolism
Indefinite, non-concrete expression Soul lessons around the themes of
Drawn to abstract forms of communication pragmatism, resourcefulness, and
Drawn to subjects that are hard to grasp mindfulness
Very imaginative

Opposition symbolism
Tug of war 
Flip flopping between energies 
Opportunity to find fulcrum between
opposities 
Living best of both worlds



 

Mercury Opposition North Node

With this placement, the North node represents a core part of your soul's journey
to seek out truth rather than be swayed by opinion or gossip. You've experienced
spiritual growth by allowing yourself to be curious, hearing all sides of a story, and
thinking logically. You've a tendency to think you know what people are saying
despite not really listening to them. Additionally, you've a tendency to assert your
beliefs even when you're not entirely sure if they're true. In this state you resist any
new ideas, and, yet, you know truth is easier to find when your mind is receptive,
relaxed, and open to new information. Being open allows you to experience
incredible insights, which can change the way you see things in an electrifying way.

 Pluto in Sagittarius symbolism North Node in Virgo symbolism
Seeks to exude optimism as they see Soul lessons around the themes of
endless opportunities pragmatism, resourcefulness, and
Raising self-awareness through knowledge mindfulness
acquisition

Square symbolism
Tension 
Difficulty balancing energies 
Stimulating, challenging, motivating

 

Pluto Square North Node

With this placement, the North node represents a core part of your soul's journey
to discover emotional resiliency and discover the wealth of intangible things such as
experiences and personal relationships. There is a tendency with this placement to
simply see wealth in a material sense, as you're particularly attached to modern
comforts and conveniences. You feel comforted by possessions and the ownership
of things, yet, sometimes, those same things act as a mental crutch and prevent you
from finding real inner-stability and grounding; ironically, emotional resilience and
fearlessness can be found when we lose all comforts. The experiences, people, and
professions that seek to find emotional grounding set your soul soaring in an
incredible way. These can include exploring therapeutic techniques and relating to
people on a deeper level.



 Moon in Pisces symbolism  Jupiter in Pisces symbolism
Strong intuitive nature Possess an imaginative and spiritual nature
Easy-going temperament You believe in all-encompassing
Nourished by imagination, daydreaming beneficence all around you
Soothed by the mystical Seek to develop and expand the power of
Going with the flow your intuition

You understand the healing power of
Conjunction symbolism compassion

Engeries are merged in feeling 
Realms of life are interwined 
Rest, stability between planets

 

Moon Conjunction Jupiter

You possess a generous spirit that propagates the feeling of comfort and
emotional healing in the world around you. It’s important for you to live a life
marked by freedom and ease, a life that requires little responsibility, even if it
means compromising in other areas.

When your energies are out-of-sync, a strong wave of momentum can gather
behind your emotions, taking the form of big mood swings and overt sensitivity.
Often your focus on negative thoughts can expand them to become your central
focus within your life. Sometimes the ease of which things have come to you in the
past have left you unable to deal with contrasting experiences in your life. This is a
great lesson to learn how to move to a neutral place (for instance quieting the mind
through meditation) and back in to an expansive positive energy flow.

 When in sync, you beam with positivity. You find it easy to attune to the frequency  

of abundance in your personal life. You find an abundance of love, comfort, and
wealth. You seek to be caring and heartfelt in word and action. You have the
capability to unlock an expansive creative potential that is linked with your inner
emotional world.



 Sun in Pisces symbolism  Jupiter in Pisces symbolism
Going with the flow Possess an imaginative and spiritual nature
Dreamy, mystical expression You believe in all-encompassing
Strong imagination beneficence all around you
Abstract thinking Seek to develop and expand the power of

your intuition
Conjunction symbolism You understand the healing power of

Engeries are merged in feeling compassion

Realms of life are interwined 
Rest, stability between planets

 

Sun Conjunction Jupiter

You believe in magic and that the world is a magical place. This sentiment has
shaped your enthusiastic and optimistic outlook of life. People find you a
supportive, generous, and warm character — one who not only sees the best in
themselves but also in others. When you're flowing in your naturally positive
mindset, you can simply feel lucky. You don’t sweat the small things; instead, you
chuckle at any misfortune that happens to come your way.

In low vibrations, this aspect can lead you into bouts of procrastination because you
develop an unrealistic expectation that everything will just fall into your lap. Not
everyone understands your faith in the universe, and they feel you are someone
who exaggerates and makes grand promises without follow-through. Also be
aware of restlessness as it may lead you to overextend yourself.

 Finding yourself in such a rut provides you with a sure sign that you have veered off  

the path of positivity. Tap back into the magic that you know, and never let
anyone dilute it. When you expect the best to happen, things often have a way of
resolving themselves.



 Neptune in Aquarius symbolis m MC in Taurus symbolism
A unique and innovative imagination Seeks career that provides stability and
Holding visions that possess a free-spirited dependability
energy Seeks outlet for creativity that unfolds in an

unhurried and grounded way
Trine symbolism
Effortless, harmonious flow 
Two planets bring out the best in each
other 
Natural, easy, talented energy

 

Neptune Trine MC

Some people only trust what their senses perceive. You, on the other hand, are
intrigued by the intangible spaces that not everyone can sense. You're the guide
that opens people’s eyes to these worlds. These are the worlds where dreams are
made. All things were thoughts before they became real. You believe in this
principle, and, as a result, you manifest great things into your professional life.

Potential careers: Musician, Shaman, Therapist, Alternative Medicine, Religious
clergy.

 Jupiter in Pisces symbolism  Pluto in Sagittarius symbolism
Possess an imaginative and spiritual nature Seeks to exude optimism as they see
You believe in all-encompassing endless opportunities 
beneficence all around you Raising self-awareness through knowledge
Seek to develop and expand the power of acquisition
your intuition
You understand the healing power of
compassion

Square symbolism
Tension 
Difficulty balancing energies 
Stimulating, challenging, motivating



 

Jupiter Square Pluto

You strive to inspire the hearts of many to live lives of authenticity. You speak with
conviction; you speak with tenacity, exposing people to brand new concepts and
ideas. Self-development is front and center in all that you do. You seek challenges
and opportunities that will aid your personal growth. The people around you can
feel the contagious zest and vitality you live your life with.

Ultimately, you're trying to make the world a better place. You're not interested in
baby steps; you're looking for solutions that can re-define entire paradigms. You've
good intentions, but you sometimes fall into the belief that your way is the best
way, expecting people to automatically conform to your world view. This is why,
sometimes, people can feel like you're shoving your opinion down their throat. The
key is that you’re presenting a new way to think, but not the way to think.

 Mercury in Pisces symbolism  Pluto in Sagittarius symbolism
Indefinite, non-concrete expression Seeks to exude optimism as they see
Drawn to abstract forms of communication endless opportunities 
Drawn to subjects that are hard to grasp Raising self-awareness through knowledge
Very imaginative acquisition

Square symbolism
Tension 
Difficulty balancing energies 
Stimulating, challenging, motivating



 

Mercury Square Pluto

You communicate with an inquisitive mind. You don’t bother with small talk;
instead, you shoot straight to the heart of any subject matter. What interests you in
conversations is trying to understand the underlying nature of people. You're not
afraid to ask the question, “Why?” multiple times. Like a detective, you sleuth under
the surface for answers; the mystery of it all fascinates you. Mental challenges,
puzzles, and games, all satisfy your need for deep mentally abstract
contemplation.

As an inquisitive mind asks direct questions, naturally some people find your
inquisitions quite blunt, sometimes even rude. If you're fascinated by something,
you explore it from every angle; you become obsessed. You a willing to explore a
topic much more than the average person. Be aware of this tendency, making sure
to keep it in check. As you operate on such a deep level, you can get stuck seeing
things from one angle. While focus can be beneficial, it also benefits you to
broaden your perspective.

 Sun in Pisces symbolism  North Node in Virgo symbolism
Going with the flow Soul lessons around the themes of
Dreamy, mystical expression pragmatism, resourcefulness, and
Strong imagination mindfulness
Abstract thinking

Opposition symbolism
Tug of war 
Flip flopping between energies 
Opportunity to find fulcrum between
opposities 
Living best of both worlds



 

Sun Opposition North Node

With this placement, the North node represents a core part of your soul's journey
to learn to develop confidence, to strengthen its willpower, and to take risks. You've
a tendency to undergo an unending journey for more knowledge, in order to feel in
control before taking risks in your life. There is a tendency to want unanimous
approval before you fully express yourself, before you put your heart on the line,
and, yet, the confidence and sureness you seek only comes through trying and
allowing yourself to fail sometimes. Professions and activities that involve
expression, drama, and entertainment can unlock your heart in a way in a deeply
resonate manner.

 Mars in Pisces symbolism  MC in Taurus symbolism
Drawn to mystical and ethereal endeavors Seeks career that provides stability and
A free-flowing energetic spirit dependability
Imaginative enterprising nature Seeks outlet for creativity that unfolds in an
Achieving higher states of sexual interaction unhurried and grounded way

Sextile symbolism
Cooperative energies 
Energies in friendship 
Concious effort required to reveal gifts of
this placement

 

Mars Sextile MC

You’re a born entrepreneur — you walk to your own beat. The thought of working a
cookie cutter job for a mediocre boss makes you shudder. Instead, you choose to
carve your own path. There’s no mould for you to follow. To you, your professional
life is a series of trial, error, and growth; ultimately, the key is to keep moving
forward. You thrive in competitive environments as their dynamic energy bring out
the best in you; the energy of these environments make you feel alive.

Potential careers: Entrepreneur, Athlete, Business Owner, Financial Trader.



 Moon in Pisces symbolism  MC in Taurus symbolism
Strong intuitive nature Seeks career that provides stability and
Easy-going temperament dependability
Nourished by imagination, daydreaming Seeks outlet for creativity that unfolds in an
Soothed by the mystical unhurried and grounded way
Going with the flow

Square symbolism
Tension 
Difficulty balancing energies 
Stimulating, challenging, motivating

 

Moon Square MC

In a perfect world, your professional life rewards you for your unfiltered creative
expression. Your ideal work is a place where creative ideas are freely shared,
exchanged, and examined. The monotony of unfulfilling work can create tension
within you. It can make your creative channels feel like dried up riverbeds. It’s not
easy for you to compartmentalize your professional life from your home life.
Tensions at work inevitably spill over into your interactions outside work. This is why
it’s important to place yourself in professional fields that align with your need for
creative and emotional nourishment.

Potential careers: business HR, graphic design, psychologist

 Sun in Pisces symbolism  Mercury in Pisces symbolism
Going with the flow Indefinite, non-concrete expression
Dreamy, mystical expression Drawn to abstract forms of communication
Strong imagination Drawn to subjects that are hard to grasp
Abstract thinking Very imaginative

Conjunction symbolism
Engeries are merged in feeling 
Realms of life are interwined 
Rest, stability between planets



 

Sun Conjunction Mercury

You're a thinker; you're often found lost in deep ponderous thoughts; your mind is
home to a vibrant ecosystem of ideas, imagination, and possibilities. You treat your
mind like an athlete treats their body — keeping it quick-witted, sharp, and
agile. Craving mental stimulation, you have a multitude of different outlets that
help you tap into different parts of yourself. In particular, you seek to be
intellectually stimulated, such as when speaking, debating, or writing.

At times, being too isolated in your mind can lead to restlessness. Your overactive
thinking can prevent you from taking action. Remember that not everything needs
to be thought out. You benefit from meditating and releasing control of
understanding every step of the process.

 Meanwhile, your self-image and identity can become too tied up with your  

perception of your intellectual prowess. In some cases, it can make people feel like
you are conversing with yourself. Take a breath and allow yourself to exchange
knowledge with people with more detachment, regardless of where the
conversation goes.

 It benefits you to cultivate more of the joy you feel around verbal expression. You  

have a gift to share with people that can open them up to seeing things in new
ways, or, even, you revealing to them whole new paradigms of understanding.
These gifts are usually best expressed when rooted in love rather than a need to be
right.

 Sun in Pisces symbolism  Moon in Pisces symbolism
Going with the flow Strong intuitive nature
Dreamy, mystical expression Easy-going temperament
Strong imagination Nourished by imagination, daydreaming
Abstract thinking Soothed by the mystical

Going with the flow
Conjunction symbolism
Engeries are merged in feeling 
Realms of life are interwined 
Rest, stability between planets



 

Sun Conjunction Moon

You seek balance within yourself; you seek a feeling of your intuition and will
working in harmony. You want to be an active creator, in charge of your creations
or work, but, at the same time, you want to know how to be patient and capitalize
on the right moment. You respect your intuition and are eager to utilize that with
your creative energy.

When your energies are in harmony, it feels as if things work out at exactly the right
moment. You can be quite straightforward in what you want from life — you know
what you want. This self-assuredness gives you a confident air because your inner
parts are working in sync. This further develops your trust in your own ability to get
things done.

 When your energies are not in harmony, you identify either, to the exclusion of the  

other, with your mood or your willpower. You try to force things into place rather
than respecting the need to develop your inner-knowing, or you're too absorbed
with your emotional world rather than having the courage and trust to take action.

 The gift of this aspect is learning how to be balanced within yourself and cultivating 

a healthy mental and emotional connection. When things click into place, you have
a way of dancing the waltz of life with sheer optimism.

 Venus in Capricorn symbolism MC in Taurus symbolism
Attracted to independence Seeks career that provides stability and
An introverted creativestyle dependability
Practical aesthetic tastes Seeks outlet for creativity that unfolds in an
Stable and enduring love unhurried and grounded way

Trine symbolism
Effortless, harmonious flow 
Two planets bring out the best in each
other 
Natural, easy, talented energy



 

Venus Trine MC

You've a natural social intelligence that is most utilized in fields where networking is
highly valued. You're a conversation starter, a person who can be depended on to
lead meetings and bridge ideas among people in a group. You’re also a stickler for
details. You believe in an ordered, organized process. This framework quickly gains
you the reputation of being a dependable workmate.

Potential careers: Therapist, Manager, Teacher, Lawyer, Model

 Moon in Pisces symbolism  Pluto in Sagittarius symbolism
Strong intuitive nature Seeks to exude optimism as they see
Easy-going temperament endless opportunities 
Nourished by imagination, daydreaming Raising self-awareness through knowledge
Soothed by the mystical acquisition
Going with the flow

Square symbolism
Tension 
Difficulty balancing energies 
Stimulating, challenging, motivating

 

Moon Square Pluto

You've an unwavering self-belief as you’ve overcome many obstacles in your life.
These experiences have given you wisdom beyond your years. Your natural read on
people not only makes you a pain to play against in poker but also makes you an
intuitive empath — you naturally can sense how someone is feeling despite what he
or she may say or do. Delving deep into your own emotional psyche has given you
a unique insight into what drives people to do the things they do; similarly, you seek
relationships with an equally intimate emotional depth as you have with yourself.

You can be an intense character at times. You're not someone who takes or says
things lightly. All your actions have weight. Allowing your emotions to simmer under
the surface inevitably can boil over into wild mood swings and emotional
insecurities. Pent up emotions are the reason for the rise in temperature. Finding
ways to alleviate this pressure is paramount in keeping yourself composed. As you
continue to cultivate the wisdom of your intuition, you'll find yourself catapulted
towards deeper fulfilling experiences.



 Saturn in Aries symbolism  Ascendant in Leo symbolism
Seeks to create structures which allow the An expressive persona that attracts a lot of
ability to assert oneself attention
Ambitious and enjoys the rewards of Exhibiting a sunny and playful personality
overcoming challenges Confidently expressing a style that is

colorful and flamboyant.
Trine symbolism
Effortless, harmonious flow 
Two planets bring out the best in each
other 
Natural, easy, talented energy

 

Saturn Trine Ascendant

Your expression is reserved; you appear aloof, cautious, and composed. In speech,
you may be reticent, preferring to say little; you're private about sharing the
thoughts and feelings brewing below the surface. If you're tight-lipped because you
seek to control how you're perceived, you may find that to be an extremely
arduous task. You could benefit from relaxing and opening up, instead, try opening
the floodgates of your expression. It will offer you an immense feeling of freedom
and relief.

However, you may find that being serene and collected is simply your natural
expression. You simply enjoy appearing mature, as if you are examining things
from a higher ground. To people, you remain an enigma, a puzzle, but you've an
undeniable ability to carry yourself with grace and elegance.

 Mars in Pisces symbolism  Neptune in Aquarius symbolism
Drawn to mystical and ethereal endeavors A unique and innovative imagination
A free-flowing energetic spirit Holding visions that possess a free-spirited
Imaginative enterprising nature energy
Achieving higher states of sexual interaction

Sextile symbolism
Cooperative energies 
Energies in friendship 
Concious effort required to reveal gifts of
this placement



 

Mars Sextile Neptune

Your energy can be quite diffused rather than directed; you prefer to flow with the
energies of the moment, moving cautiously, in sync with your intuition, rather than
being full of initiative and being the first to act. 

You’re not one to be aggressive or confrontational. Likely, you seek to be sensitive
and compassionate through your work, feeling a higher sense of purpose when you
can be a conduit of healing for people. Be aware that your gentle nature can
sometimes be misinterpreted as passivity. Be weary of people pushing your
boundaries; don’t be afraid to assert them.

 When the energy is out-of-balance, you may hide your identity under a mask as  

you don't feel comfortable being exposed in full view. Like fog, your intentions may
be unclear or hard to decipher. You may choose to daydream rather than act; you
may feel unsure of what to do in a practical sense.

 When your energy is in balance, you know how to master the power of your  

imagination. In fact, you gently morph reality into what you want through your
prolific mind and strong desires. Things that are seen as a dream or fantasy
somehow come into being around you. You have the gift of elevating people into
otherworldly places, whether it be through music, art, or the gifts you share in your
work.

 Jupiter in Pisces symbolism  MC in Taurus symbolism
Possess an imaginative and spiritual nature Seeks career that provides stability and
You believe in all-encompassing dependability
beneficence all around you Seeks outlet for creativity that unfolds in an
Seek to develop and expand the power of unhurried and grounded way
your intuition
You understand the healing power of
compassion

Square symbolism
Tension 
Difficulty balancing energies 
Stimulating, challenging, motivating



 

Jupiter Square MC

You think on a grand scale; you start at 100%. In groups, you’re the spark that
ignites the fire of excitement. It’s not the how, it’s the what-ifs and the grand ideas
that excite you. There’s a sense of enviable bravery in your pursuit of greatness. You
acknowledge that with big risk comes big reward — go hard or go home. That
being said, you do attract your fair share of naysayers who, ironically, drive you
even more.

Potential careers: Athlete. Entrepreneur, Business CEO, Engineer, Architect.

 Venus in Capricorn symbolism Neptune in Aquarius symbolism
Attracted to independence A unique and innovative imagination
An introverted creativestyle Holding visions that possess a free-spirited
Practical aesthetic tastes energy
Stable and enduring love

Conjunction symbolism
Engeries are merged in feeling 
Realms of life are interwined 
Rest, stability between planets

 

Venus Conjunction Neptune

You're in love with love; the power of love, to you, elevates all. Love allows you to
see the light in all, giving people the comfort to let loose around you. People truly
appreciate your ability to see the best in them, without judging their layers of past
failings. Relationships present themselves to you intuitively as you're an avid listener
to the tunes of your heart.

The arts, especially music, have a deep connection with you. They provide you with
an avenue of self-expression, allowing you to transform your negative energy into
your creative pursuits positively. You value a style that is subtle and mysterious
versus crude and bold.



 Some may argue you only see what you want to see. You're looking for a love that  

may never match the lofty fairytale that plays in your mind. You can be
dumbfounded when reality reveals itself to be outside of your ideals. Your high
standards of people either allow them to shoot for better or make them feel
unreasonable pressure. With a rose-colored vision of love, you have the potential to
idealize romantic partners, but you can also use your gift of imagination to
transform the mundane into the sublime.

 Mercury in Pisces symbolism  Jupiter in Pisces symbolism
Indefinite, non-concrete expression Possess an imaginative and spiritual nature
Drawn to abstract forms of communication You believe in all-encompassing
Drawn to subjects that are hard to grasp beneficence all around you
Very imaginative Seek to develop and expand the power of

your intuition
Conjunction symbolism You understand the healing power of

Engeries are merged in feeling compassion

Realms of life are interwined 
Rest, stability between planets

 

Mercury Conjunction Jupiter

You're a memorable conversationalist, communicating with a style that stimulates
interesting ideas. You don’t shy away from the “big-picture” topics because you
allow your curious mind to explore grand and imaginative concepts. Your favorite
phrase, prefixed to much of what you say, is ”what if?”. Much chin stroking and
sounds of ‘aha’ are had when conversing with you; conversely, small talk bores you;
you're always at the ready to steer conversations towards topics more stimulating
and expanding in nature.

Be weary of talking a big game but having nothing to show for it. Talking without
action will only atrophy your sense of practically, leaving you prone to
overestimating your abilities and glossing over key details. Cultivating focus will
transform how you approach ideas; focus will allow you to combine action with
your immense imagination—this is powerful. Your constant philosophizing can
make you seem like an arrogant “know-it-all”. Truly trying to hear what people are
saying before dismissing their views will only enhance your communication skills.



 Ascendant in Leo symbolism  MC in Taurus symbolism
An expressive persona that attracts a lot of Seeks career that provides stability and
attention dependability
Exhibiting a sunny and playful personality Seeks outlet for creativity that unfolds in an
Confidently expressing a style that is unhurried and grounded way
colorful and flamboyant.

Square symbolism
Tension 
Difficulty balancing energies 
Stimulating, challenging, motivating

 

Ascendant Square MC

When these two points are in aspect, it indicates a special relationship between
your public persona (Ascendant), your private persona (IC), your relationship
persona (Descendant), and, lastly, your professional persona (MC). They're all
congruent with one another, and you transition between these parts of yourself with
ease. You don't feel the need to put on different masks for different people;
instead, you feel like you can be open about all sides of yourself.

You feel a general comfort and ease in yourself, so, in turn, you choose professions
that integrate well with you on an everyday level. Similarly, you choose
partnerships that integrate seamlessly into your family life.

 Moon in Pisces symbolism  Mercury in Pisces symbolism
Strong intuitive nature Indefinite, non-concrete expression
Easy-going temperament Drawn to abstract forms of communication
Nourished by imagination, daydreaming Drawn to subjects that are hard to grasp
Soothed by the mystical Very imaginative
Going with the flow

Conjunction symbolism
Engeries are merged in feeling 
Realms of life are interwined 
Rest, stability between planets



 

Moon Conjunction Mercury

You're a disarming force to be around; people feel an instant ease when
communicating with you. That’s why you're always a first pick on any team. You
understand the power of compromise and adaptation in maintaining a cooperative
environment.

You've a genuine love of learning, accumulating an encyclopedia of knowledge
coupled with a memory like an elephant. You can sometimes play the know-it-all
as you find it difficult to let go when people disagree with you. Learning to
embrace the debate sharpens your mind and exposes you to new perspectives.

 Essentially, you're interested in the mechanics of how things work. As you approach  

your emotions in a similarly logic-based manner, you boil down to the meaning of
why you may be feeling a certain way. It’s easy to sense your emotional state —
you’re not an enigma, as you are very forthcoming with your current mood, and, as
a result, people find your emotional transparency quite refreshing.

 When your energy is out of balance, you're prone to over-analyzing situations.  

Sometimes it can feel like the head and the heart are in turmoil. You exert too
much unnecessary anxiety and tension in a quest to rationalize your emotions. As
counter intuitive as it sounds, just allowing your heart to feel where it’s at will
provide you the answers you seek. The denial of your emotions tricks you into
thinking you are making decisions based on rational rather than emotion.

 Uranus in Aquarius symbolism Pluto in Sagittarius symbolism
Desire to be a part of the early unfolding of Seeks to exude optimism as they see
social trends endless opportunities 
Valuing being an instigator, desiring to Raising self-awareness through knowledge
bring insight and improvement acquisition

Sextile symbolism
Cooperative energies 
Energies in friendship 
Concious effort required to reveal gifts of
this placement



 

Uranus Sextile Pluto

This is a generational aspect that may span several years. Collective forces cause
an interplay of planetary energies, which allows space for a novel era to be born.

This generation has the opportunity to witness complete social transformation.
There's an opportunity for widespread innovation on many levels of society, which
can be, somewhat, of a bumpy ride. Collectively there is strong desire to embrace
new revolutionary ideas and mindsets. At the same time, this is balanced with
growing humanitarian awareness, seeking to put human needs first. This era marks
the passing of the baton from the old guard to the new.



CHART PATTERNS

Chart patterns are a collection of aspects that are grouped together to reveal a larger geometric pattern within
the chart.

Yod symbolism

Targeted energy
An realm of life where insights, electricity flows through 
Awakening experiences

 

Yod between Ascendant in 22  Leo, Mars in 25  Pisces, and Venus in 25
Capricorn

The sextile at the base of the Yod is between Venus and Mars. The themes of this sextile are:
Affectionate and sensual personality / Positively connecting with your sexuality / Integrating
female and male approaches to romance.

When the themes of this sextile are active, they bring clarity and healing to the planet at the
tip of the Yod, Ascendant. This placement reflects a potential dormant awakening around
Ascendant's themes: Self-image and presence / External role.



Stellium symbolism

Focused energy within sign
Uncomplicated, forthright in one's approach 
Single-minded and determined
Short-sighted, overly attached to one perspective

 

Stellium between Mercury in 11  Pisces, Jupiter in 5  Pisces, Moon in 3
Pisces, and Sun in 7  Pisces

The Stellium focuses energy, making the Pisces themes of seeking transcendence, diffusing,
going with the flow a dominant within this chart. All of the positive qualities of Pisces are
amplified - an attraction to the mystical, an ability to translate the abstract and intangible
parts of life through art, a strong imagination and belief in things thought of as fantasy.

Having so many planets in one sign means one can be very uncomplicated in their approach,
consistent in their personality, even predictable.

The challenge of a stellium is that the focused energy can operate without a counterbalance.
When excessive, one can be overly sensitive to emotional energy, being unrealistic and
ungrounded in one’s approach. Balance can be found by examining the positive traits of the
opposite sign, Virgo: willingness to take self-responsibility, being practically minded and
resourceful.



T-Square symbolism

Prompts action
High degree of motivation to succeed in this area
Unwillingness to accept anything less that what is wanted
Offers frustration, as well as opportunity to excel in an unprecedented way

 

T-Square between Mercury in 11  Pisces, Pluto in 8  Sagittarius, North
Node in 10  Virgo, and Sun in 7  Pisces

The key thing about this T-Square is that the planets primarily fall in the Mutable signs (Virgo,
Gemini, Pisces, Sagittarius). The chart is dominant in the characteristics of Mutable signs
which means one enjoys being adapatable, morphing themselves to what is required in any
situation. In fact, the individual revels in being flexible and seeks out situations in which their
malleability is tested. Standing one's ground is of little importance to such a person, who
enjoys discovering how to be resourceful and versatile in any situation.

Such an individual actively seeks out learning from people from all walks of life, seeking to be
a Jack-of-all-trades in whatever they do. On the other hand, they can react to situations by
conforming out of fear, seeking to be like a chameleon, invisible and unnoticed if they are
uncomfortable. Their desire to please can get them in trouble, as they can come across
inconsistent or even deceitful. The beauty of this placement is in learning how to stretch
oneself and be adapatable, one finds they are powerful beyond measure.



All rights reserved. Except for the use in any review, the reproduction or utilization of this work in whole or in part
in any form by any electronic, mechanical or other means is forbidden without the express permission of the

author.

astro-charts.com | Copyright © 2021 by astro-
charts