Copyright © 2020 by Rockridge Press, Emeryville, California
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted
in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning,
or otherwise, except as permitted under Sections 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States
Copyright Act, without the prior written permission of the Publisher. Requests to the
Publisher for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, Rockridge
Press, 6005 Shellmound Street, Suite 175, Emeryville, CA 94608.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: The Publisher and the author make no
representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of the contents
of this work and specifically disclaim all warranties, including without limitation
warranties of fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by
sales or promotional materials. The advice and strategies contained herein may not be
suitable for every situation. This work is sold with the understanding that the publisher is
not engaged in rendering medical, legal, or other professional advice or services. If
professional assistance is required, the services of a competent professional person should
be sought. Neither the Publisher nor the author shall be liable for damages arising
herefrom. The fact that an individual, organization, or website is referred to in this work
as a citation and/or potential source of further information does not mean that the author
or the Publisher endorses the information the individual, organization, or website may
provide or recommendations they/it may make. Further, readers should be aware that
websites listed in this work may have changed or disappeared between when this work was
written and when it is read.
For general information on our other products and services or to obtain technical support,
please contact our Customer Care Department within the United States at (866) 744-2665,
or outside the United States at (510) 253-0500.
Rockridge Press publishes its books in a variety of electronic and print formats. Some
content that appears in print may not be available in electronic books, and vice versa.
TRADEMARKS: Rockridge Press and the Rockridge Press logo are trademarks or
registered trademarks of Callisto Media Inc. and/or its affiliates, in the United States and
other countries, and may not be used without written permission. All other trademarks
are the property of their respective owners. Rockridge Press is not associated with any
product or vendor mentioned in this book.
Interior and Cover Designer: Lisa Schreiber
Art Producer: Sara Feinstein
Editor: Lia Ottaviano
Author photo courtesy of © Don Hajicek.
ISBN: Print 978-1-64611-166-4 | eBook 978-1-64611-167-1
R0






I dedicate this book to my friend Karen Krawczyk,
who started me on the path of becoming an

astrologer in 1989.



CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

PART 1
The Building Blocks of Astrology

CHAPTER ONE
An Astrological Foundation

CHAPTER TWO
The Four Elements and Three Modalities

CHAPTER THREE
The Sun Signs

CHAPTER FOUR
The Ascendant or Rising Sign and Decans

CHAPTER FIVE
Planets and Other Essential Bodies

CHAPTER SIX
The Aspects

CHAPTER SEVEN
The Houses



PART 2
Understanding Your Birth Chart
CHAPTER EIGHT
Structuring Your Birth Chart

CHAPTER NINE
Interpreting Your Birth Chart

CHAPTER TEN
Taking a Closer Look

PART 3
Sun Signs at Work and in Love
CHAPTER ELEVEN
Your Calling According to the Zodiac

CHAPTER TWELVE
Love According to the Zodiac

PART 4
Key Takeaways and Astrological Appendices

CHAPTER THIRTEEN
Conclusion

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

ASTROLOGICAL TABLES

FURTHER READING

ABOUT THE AUTHOR



INTRODUCTION
The Complete Guide to Astrology: Understanding Yourself, Your
Signs, and Your Birth Chart is written for everyone, from beginner

to advanced practitioners and students. In this book, I endeavor to cover a
wide range of information in an accessible and inclusive way.

I see the astrological chart as a blueprint of potential and possibility.
You will never find me saying that any sign or placement is all good or all
bad, and I believe that it is always possible to find a way through any
challenges or blocks to growth, evolution, and compatibility. This book is
written from that approach. We are nuanced and we all have the ability to
consciously approach how we navigate our cosmic blueprint. That said, I do
not use spiritual override—that is, use spiritual practices to sidestep
unresolved issues or wounds—as I prefer to take a firm look at the shadow
and how that shadow can be healed or integrated rather than bypassed.

I now invite you to look at the subject of gender differently. Astrological
language has traditionally been binary, using male and female and
masculine and feminine labels. Yet our astrological chart, or cosmic
blueprint, contains every planet and sign, and therefore, they are all within
each of us. The astrological chart does not show gender, so neither does this
book. I focus on the whole person and their characteristics, removing binary
identifiers entirely. The content of this book will give you a thorough
grounding in key foundational areas of astrology and takes a radically
different approach to astrological language as we come to understand that
the planetary bodies and signs are innately nonbinary in nature.

Throughout this book I integrate the terms “day” and “night” to replace
masculine/male and feminine/female respectively, as the two terms are less
limiting. This is a concept that was used by the ancients and that loosely
aligned with masculine and feminine for them. I will say more on this in
chapter 1. I would like to thank astrologer Jason Holley for introducing me
to this concept and the work of Robert Hand and Brian Clark for helping me
expand upon it.

The concepts of day and night allow us to take a more humanistic
approach to the inner landscape of the soul. Therefore, although this book is



partly an instruction manual to help you interpret your chart, it’s also asking
you to take a more radical and nonbinary approach to the language of
astrology.

I have always loved astrology. I still have things I wrote as young teen
delineating sun-sign qualities. It wasn’t until my first Saturn return at age 29
(when Saturn returns to the position it was at in one’s natal chart) that I
discovered what I then called “real” astrology. A friend read my chart for
me and gave me some books and I was hooked. That was in 1989.

I devoured those books, taught myself how to hand-draw natal charts,
bought and devoured more books, subscribed to magazines, and practiced
on my friends and their children. I then got married and had children and
my astrological intensity faded for a few years, though I never lost my
fascination with astrology.

By October 2012, I had moved continents twice (from the United
Kingdom to Australia to the United States), my children were 15 and 13,
and I was working in the coaching world when I had a revelation that my
purpose was to work as a professional astrologer. I worked with a teacher
one-on-one and took other classes to hone the art, and within a few months
I began to work professionally as an astrologer. I still take classes today,
because astrology is a glorious and never-ending rabbit hole where there is
always more to discover.

I have now done thousands of readings, run classes, and written
astrology articles almost daily. In November 2018, I published my first
book, Modern Astrology: Harness the Stars to Discover Your Soul’s True
Purpose, which I wrote as a tool for personal growth. I am also a shamanic
practitioner and an activist.

I am a Sagittarius sun with a Sagittarius stellium in the 11th and 12th
houses, Sagittarius rising, and a Gemini moon. For those of you who
already understand the basics of astrology, that will tell you that I am a
writer, a teacher, and attracted to social and political justice, which I cannot
help but bring into my work.

This book is written for those who wish to take their astrological study
to another level and to do so from a place of inclusivity. This book is for
everyone. Welcome.






THE BUILDING BLOCKS OF
ASTROLOGY
IN PART 1, we’ll be taking a brief look at the history of astrology, where
astrology is today, and how to look at the language of astrology in a new
way. We’ll also be covering some of the basic building blocks of the
astrological chart and how you can start to interpret yours.






CHAPTER ONE

An Astrological Foundation
FOR MILLENNIA, ASTROLOGY has been used to predict events. More
recently, people have begun using astrology as a tool for personal

development and growth, seeking insight into their personal patterns,
limiting beliefs, and potential.

Astrology can help us live in alignment with the elements and cycles of
nature, choose optimum timing for everything from farming to relationships
to work life, and engage in psychological exploration and past life lessons.
Astrology can help us heal our disconnection with the natural cycles of the
universe and live in harmony with the cosmic cycles as they work within us.

At its highest level, astrology is a tool that brings each of us into a
higher spiritual connection with the universe and the cycles of the universe,
helping us make conscious choices to live up to our highest potential. My
approach to consciousness is humanistic and psychological, and the inner
landscape is my focus. We each have every planet and sign working within
our soul consciousness. The language of astrology has inadequately
expressed that up until now. Times are changing, and so must the language
of astrology.

Why does astrology work? That’s an eternal question, but my response
is that it’s based on thousands of years of observation. Even though it has
been through periods of decline, humanity has always returned to the study
of astrology, because skilled interpretation of the movements of the cosmos
provides answers to the meaning and cycles of life.

WHAT IS ASTROLOGY?
Astrology is an ancient science that uses observation of the planetary cycles
and movements over time to record patterns and events triggered by the
movement of the cosmos.

As the Moon’s cycles so clearly affect the Earth’s tides, menstrual and
other biorhythmic cycles, and our emotional energies, the other cosmic
bodies, luminaries, planets, asteroids, and beyond work within us as well.



Everything in the universe is connected, a fact long known by astrologers
but now being recognized by scientists using quantum mechanics, which
suggests that every atom affects other atoms. In quantum physics,
everything is made of waves and particles and works according to
entanglement theory, which suggests that no particle is entirely
independent. In a nutshell, everything in the universe works together and
the movements of the cosmic bodies activate energy within us and the
natural world. In other words, we are entangled with the entire universe. All
the energies intertwine in an intricate dance of planetary magic and science,
and the language of astrology interprets that dance.

The roots of astrology go back thousands of years. Archaeologists have
found evidence that humans may have tracked lunar cycles from the earliest
of times, such as cave paintings marked with lunar cycles. Some of this
evidence may date back as far as 30,000 BCE.

Astrology is often said to be based on calendrical systems, but I would
suggest that calendrical systems are based on the movement of the cosmic
bodies—the earliest calendars were based on the movement of the Sun, the
star Sirius (Egyptian calendar), or the Moon (Greek calendar).

In other words, witnessing and recording the planetary cycles came first,
and then calendrical systems came from the movement of the cosmos. This
means that astrology is at the root of all our lives.

Astrology has evolved over thousands of years and there are several
different astrological disciplines, including but not limited to Vedic (Jyotish
Vidya or Hindi) astrology, which is based on the sidereal zodiac rather than
the tropical zodiac used by western astrology; Chinese astrology, which is
based on a 12-year cycle; Hellenistic astrology, which is a Greco-Roman
tradition practiced from the first century BCE until the seventh century CE
and currently experiencing a revival; and modern western astrology, which
is my own practice and is based on the tropical zodiac. Western astrology
originated from Ptolemaic and Babylonian astrology, which takes a more
psychological and developmental approach.

Key figures in astrological history include Ptolemy (second century
CE), who wrote one of the key astrological texts, the Tetrabiblos; Carl Jung
(1875–1961), who was a pioneer in using astrology in the field of
psychology; Alan Leo (1860–1917), often called the father of modern
astrology; and one of my personal favorites, Dane Rudhyar (1895– 1985),



who coined the term “humanistic astrology” and helped pioneer modern
astrological practices.

This book is based on the modern western tradition. However, all
traditions have validity and only differ in their approach—some being more
predictive, such as Vedic, and some taking a more personal growth or
psychological approach.

Modern western astrology is centered on creating a chart or horoscope
that is cast for a specific time, date, and place using the tropical zodiac,
which is based on the symbolic relationship between the Earth and the Sun.
The tropical zodiac divides the ecliptic into 12 equal parts of 30° each (the
signs) and is oriented to the seasons, with the zodiac beginning on the
vernal equinox, when the Sun moves into Aries. The ecliptic is an
imaginary line, or plane, in the sky that marks the apparent annual path of
the sun along which eclipses occur.

ASTROLOGY’S HISTORICAL ORIGINS
Apart from the early evidence of the tracking of lunar cycles in cave
paintings and on bones, the recorded history of astrology really began with
the Sumerians in Mesopotamia 6,000 years ago, who noted the movements
of the cosmos, as well as Vedic or Jyotish astrology, which began at least
5,000 years ago in India.

From around 2,400 to 331 BCE, the Babylonians, also known as the
Chaldeans, created the zodiac wheel with planets, the 12 houses
representing areas of life and development.

After Alexander the Great conquered the Babylonians, the Greeks
further developed astrology, giving the planets and zodiac signs their
modern names. In 140 CE, Ptolemy published Tetrabiblos, which contained
planets, houses, aspects, and angles, all techniques astrologers still use to
this day.

Over the centuries, the study and use of astrology waxed and waned in
the west, but it flourished in the Middle Ages, when it was a part of
mathematics, astronomy, and the medical world. There were royal
astrologers, and the oldest universities had astrology chairs.

As the church gained power, astrology began to decline. The Age of
Reason, including the Protestant reform movement in the 17th and 18th
centuries, began to promote reason and skepticism over what came to be



seen as entertainment only. Astrology, therefore, lost popularity until its
resurgence in the late 19th century.

ASTROLOGY TODAY
Western astrology as we know it today began its resurgence in the late 19th
century. Alan Leo is generally credited with the beginning of the renewed
interest in astrology and the development of a more spiritual and esoteric
approach as a theosophist. Theosophy is a teaching about God and the
world based on mystical insights. Alan Leo introduced the concepts of
karma and reincarnation into his work as an astrologer and began the move
away from event-oriented astrology into character analysis.

Another theosophist, Dane Rudhyar, was also involved in this
resurgence. He really began the psychological approach to astrology and
coined the term “humanistic astrology.” Rudhyar’s work was based on
theosophy and eastern philosophies primarily, and he was influenced by the
psychology of Carl Jung. Rudhyar’s work is the basis of much of the
modern astrology developed in the 1960s and 1970s.

Most modern western astrology is focused on the psychological and
humanistic side, though there is currently a resurgence in some more
ancient and predictive techniques, especially among younger astrologers.

The gender assignments of planets and signs are problematic in the
modern world. The feminine has primarily been designated as passive,
receptive, weak, dark, and destructive, whereas the masculine has been
designated as powerful, action-oriented, light, positive, and dominant—and
there has been no consideration of other genders. The planet names are
based on the Roman and Greek pantheons, which were firmly patriarchal in
nature. Only the Moon and Venus of the main essential bodies were
designated as feminine. This isn’t true of many older cultures, where the
planets were seen differently. For example, there were many Sun goddesses
in ancient cultures, and the Moon was often seen as the sperm to the Sun’s
ovum. In this book, I am moving away from these binary definitions, as we
are all the Sun and the Moon and other planetary bodies, and each cosmic
body has both strengths and weaknesses that are not gender-specific.

Here, we'll be integrating, and expanding on, the theory of an old
Hellenistic technique called sects, which defined planets as diurnal (of the
day) and nocturnal (of the night). In this system, the Sun, Jupiter, and



Saturn were diurnal, and Venus, Mars, and the Moon were nocturnal.
Mercury bridged the gap. In the vein of some current astrologers working to
create a more inclusive and nonbinary approach to astrological language,
we’ll be using the words “day” and “night.” These delineations make sense,
as day and night are visible—day is more “yang,” or outward oriented, and
night is more “yin,” or inward oriented. As the planetary table in the
astrological tables section shows clearly, the five personal planets—
Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn—all have both day and night
qualities depending on the energy of the sign of traditional rulership. This
adds a deeper interpretation, moving us away from the inherently
patriarchal and binary language of astrology that has been used until now.

The solar system is a living, breathing, and pulsing organism that
inhales (diurnal) and exhales (nocturnal), with all planetary bodies, signs,
houses, and aspects having either day/inhale energy or night/exhale energy
—sometimes both. I associate day with the energy of the inhalation,
because we inhale the breath of life to give ourselves the outgoing energy
for the day. At night we release or exhale to recharge. This reflects the
quantum entanglement of the solar system within each living organism—
and within each of us.

Famous Astrology Followers
Throughout history, astrology has been popular with leaders, rulers, and
other famous people. Catholic popes were interested in astrology in the
Middle Ages and relied on the predictions and advice of astrologers for
the timing of coronations and to help them make important decisions.

A college for astrologers was founded in Paris by Charles V,
Catherine de Médicis was known to consult with Nostradamus, and
Ronald and Nancy Reagan regularly consulted with astrologers.

J. P. Morgan was one of many business leaders who consulted
astrology before making business decisions and once said in a court
deposition, “Millionaires don’t have astrologers, billionaires do.”
Additionally, former U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Donald Regan once
said, “It’s common knowledge that a large percentage of Wall Street
brokers use astrology.” Other celebrities and well-known people who



are known to have consulted with astrologers include Lady Gaga,
Madonna, Albert Einstein, and Theodore Roosevelt.






CHAPTER TWO

The Four Elements and Three Modalities
IN THIS CHAPTER, I will be exploring the three modalities—cardinal,
fixed, and mutable—and the four key elements—fire, earth, air, and

water. Modalities are also known as the qualities of the signs, or their basic
modus operandi—the way they work. Each of the three modalities includes
four astrological signs, one from each of the elements. The four elements
each represent one characteristic: Fire represents spirit, water represents
emotion, air represents intellect, and earth represents the physical.

The zodiac, like the universe itself, is composed of these four elements,
and in astrology, they represent archetypal characteristics within a person.
As the luminaries, planets, asteroids, and other cosmic bodies work in
alignment within us, so too do the elements. The elements also work in
harmony with each other, so please be aware that every element is
contained within each person.

Each element is connected to three signs of the zodiac and the
predominant element in a horoscope gives a clear indication of how a
person reacts, responds, and behaves. An analysis of the elemental balance
alone in the chart can say a lot about the primary traits of a person.

The four elements are further divided into the three modalities as
follows:
Aries is Cardinal Fire
Taurus is Fixed Earth
Gemini is Mutable Air
Cancer is Cardinal Water

Leo is Fixed Fire
Virgo is Mutable Earth
Libra is Cardinal Air
Scorpio is Fixed Water

Sagittarius is Mutable Fire
Capricorn is Cardinal Earth



Aquarius is Fixed Air
Pisces is Mutable Water

Blending the elements with the modalities gives us even more
information about the primary traits of a person. For example, Gemini is
mutable air and is, therefore, more likely to be very changeable; Libra is
cardinal air and more likely to initiate new ideas.

CARDINAL MODALITY
The first of the three modalities is the cardinal modality, which is associated
with the four signs that begin each quadrant of the natural zodiac: Aries,
Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn. Aries and Libra are the day (or inhale)
cardinal signs and Cancer and Capricorn are the night (or exhale) signs.

As modalities represent the basic mode of operation of a sign, all four
cardinal signs are initiating energies that begin a new season or stage of life
and this, therefore, is reflected in their nature. Cardinal signs like to begin
new projects. They are the pioneers of the zodiac but may lack the staying
power needed to bring ideas and projects to fruition.

FIXED MODALITY
The second of the three modalities is the fixed modality, which is associated
with the four signs that are in the middle of each quadrant of the natural
zodiac: Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius. Here we also have two night
(or exhale) signs, Taurus and Scorpio, and two day (or inhale) signs, Leo
and Aquarius.

The fixed signs do exactly what they say they will. Their basic way of
behaving is to fix in place that which was initiated by the cardinal signs.
They have the staying power to make the projects, plans, and ideas of the
cardinal, or initiating, signs happen. Fixed signs generally like continuity
and dislike change. But life and the universe are ever-moving, which brings
us to the third modality.

MUTABLE MODALITY
The third of the three modalities is the mutable modality, which is
associated with the four signs that end each quadrant of the natural zodiac



and that lead into the beginning of the next: Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, and
Pisces. Gemini and Sagittarius are the day (or inhale) signs and Virgo and
Pisces are the night (or exhale) signs.

As their name suggests, mutable signs are very flexible, changeable, and
versatile. They can usually see all sides of issues and cope well when life
throws change at them. They can, however, easily lose focus and purpose in
life and are likely to suffer from “shiny object syndrome” and distraction.

The Horoscope as the Medicine Wheel
The four elements and the four signs of the cardinal modality have also
been used in shamanic cultures for millennia as the medicine wheel,
which represents the four cardinal directions called in ceremony and the
beginning of the seasons. In the northern hemisphere, cardinal Aries
(fire) begins spring, cardinal Cancer (water) begins summer, cardinal
Libra (air) begins fall, and cardinal Capricorn (earth) begins winter.
These are reversed in the southern hemisphere.

The four directions also represent stages of life: birth (east, fire,
new beginnings), youth (south, water, emotional innocence and trust),
adulthood (west, earth, physical energy), and elderhood (north, air,
wisdom). The whole horoscope could therefore be seen as a medicine
wheel or sacred hoop of life to align with. Please note that this is one
way of looking at this and different shamanic traditions look at the
wheel of life differently.

The seasons of the year align with the seasons of life through birth
(Spring), youth (Summer), adulthood (Fall), and elderhood (Winter).
Everything is connected in a great mandala of creation.



FIRE 

Fire is the energy of transformation and action and is day (inhale) energy.
As we inhale life, we draw breath to gain energy. We also expand our lungs
on inhalation; fire signs and planets are expansive or outgoing. Fire is heat
and movement. Think about the energy of flames, as you watch them flicker
and dance, and you get a feeling for the element of fire. The Sun provides
the Earth and humanity with the heat and light we need to survive.

Fire is fast-moving and transformative, like a phoenix rising from the
ashes of destruction.

The three fire signs—Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius—are positive,
inspirational, enthusiastic, and confident. They are more associated with day
energy, which is more direct and focused outward but all signs have some
fire energy contained within, as we are all elements in differing quantities.

Aries, ruled by the warrior god Mars, is the first of the fire signs and is
the most direct and focused. Leo, ruled by the Sun, is confident and loves
attention. Sagittarius, ruled by Jupiter, is expansive and inspirational.

Any placements, luminaries, planets, asteroids, or angles in fire signs
will take on these characteristics. For example, those with Venus (values
and love) in Aries are very direct and more warrior-like in relationships.
People with Mercury (the mind and communication) in Leo have a
communication style that conveys authority.



WATER 
Water is the energy of receptivity and emotion and is a night (exhale)
energy. Water, like emotions, is fluid and shifting. Water makes up a huge
percentage of the human body and could be said to be the most crucial
element. Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces are the three water signs; all are
deeply intuitive and creative energies.

The Moon rules Cancer and is associated with nurturing and mothering.
Pluto rules Scorpio, which reflects the depth of this sign and is associated
with obsession and psychological depths. Neptune rules Pisces and is
associated with all meditative or altered states, as well as the connection to
the collective unconscious or spirit energy.

Any placements in water signs take on a more fluid energy. Someone
with Mercury (the mind and communication) in Cancer, for example,
receives information instinctively and retains it at a deep level, since Cancer
is a receptive night energy.

AIR 
Air is the energy of the mind or thought and is a day (inhale) energy. This is
the breath and the wind. We can’t hold on to breath; it flows in and out, and
wind is needed to stop the air around us from becoming stagnant. Gemini,
Libra, and Aquarius are the three air signs, and they are the signs of
thought, ideas, sociability, and the analytical. Air signs are associated with
rationality and the right brain.

Gemini, ruled by Mercury, is associated with duality and learning.
Libra, ruled by Venus, is associated with diplomacy, relationships, and
mediation. Aquarius is ruled by Uranus and is associated with the Internet
because of its connectivity of thoughts, ideas, and people; higher intellect;
inventiveness; and innovation.

Any placements in air signs take on an airier flavor. Someone with Mars
(drive and will) in Gemini, for example, is a fast learner and likely to speak
very quickly and directly.

EARTH 
Earth is the energy of the material world, energy that you can touch and
feel. Earth is stable, practical, and patient, and it is a night (exhale) energy.



Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn are the three earth signs, and they are the
signs of hard work, building, creating material things, and connection to the
material world and structures.

Earth signs are sensual, have creative qualities, and are connected to the
natural cycles of nature, as well as the human cycle of birth, life, and death.

Taurus, ruled by Venus, is the most connected with the material world
and the Earth itself. Virgo, ruled by Mercury, is more connected with the
technical world and crafts. Capricorn, ruled by Saturn, is the pioneer of the
earth signs and is the leadership and achievement-oriented sign.

Any placements in earth signs will take on the flavor of the sign. For
example, someone with Mars (drive and will) in Taurus will be slower and
more deliberate than someone with Mars in the sign of rulership, Aries,
which is very fast-moving and direct.






CHAPTER THREE

The Sun Signs 
IN THIS CHAPTER, I will be discussing the 12 sun signs of the zodiac.
In contemporary astrology, the sun signs represent our core self and

could be said to represent our ego. The sun signs are the part of the self that
almost everyone knows and the primary energy that fuels our being. I will
provide keywords, technical details—such as ruling planet—and some fun
facts about each sign. We’ll be looking at dualities (night/feminine/yin or
day/masculine/yang) in this section. View the signs as an evolution of
personal development from birth, Aries, to end of life, Pisces, so that you
gain a deeper understanding of how the signs work within you—we all have
energy from every sign within us, no matter what our sun sign is.

ARIES 
Aries is the first sign of the zodiac and is seen by most to be the start of the
astrological year—the ingress (or moving into) of the Sun into Aries signals
the spring equinox in the northern hemisphere and Aries is the first sign in
the natural horoscope, ruling the first house.

The sign spans the first 30° of the zodiac and the Sun transits the sign
from the equinox, approximately March 21 to April 20. These dates change
according to the Sun’s actual movement in the sky from our perspective
here on Earth.

Aries is a day cardinal fire sign, is ruled by Mars, the god of war, and
represents youth, which is very focused on the self. The Aries symbol is the
ram, and its glyph represents the horns of the ram. Aries is in polarity with
the sign of Libra, an air sign, which means they are complementary and
work well together. The dominant keyword for Aries is “I am,”which
means they are all about the self and like to come first. Aries rules the head
and eyes. Red is the color associated with Aries, diamond is the birthstone,
and iron is the metal.

The most likeable traits for Aries are that they are dynamic, pioneering,
and seen as leaders by others. Inwardly, they have a healthy self-interest and



are very courageous. They may have a tendency to be aggressive and
reactionary if their directness isn’t tempered. Others see Aries as impatient,
fast-moving, and daring.

Lady Gaga, Elton John, Nancy Pelosi, and Leonardo da Vinci were all
born under the sign of Aries.

TAURUS 
The second sign of the zodiac is Taurus. The Sun transits this sign from
about April 21 to May 20, and it rules the second house.

Taurus is a night fixed earth sign and is ruled by Venus in her material
world incarnation as goddess of the manifest. Like Aries, this sign is
represented by a horned animal, the bull, indicating that these first two signs
are very straightforward and “headfirst.” The glyph for Taurus represents
the head and horns of the bull. Taurus represents the stage of life that
realizes the connection with the physical world.

Scorpio is the sign that is in polarity to Taurus, and the two complement
each other well. Like the strong and solid bull that represents the sign, the
dominant keyword for Taurus is “build,” as the those born under the sign
love to develop all that endures. The sign of Taurus is associated with the
throat and vocal cords, the gemstone most associated with the sign is
emerald—but being the most material of signs, Taurus is also associated
with sapphires—and copper is the metal.

Taurus embodies animal wisdom in that they have finely honed senses
and are sensual, practical, and loyal. Inwardly, they are deeply grounded,
patient, and steady, but this can also lead to the tendency to be stubborn or
bullheaded and overly materialistic in the pursuit of security. Others see
Taurus as stable and lacking in pretense.

Queen Elizabeth II, Mark Zuckerberg, and Dwayne “The Rock”
Johnson were born under the sign of Taurus. (The nickname “The Rock”
really is emblematic of the sign, as rocks are of the earth element.)

GEMINI 
Gemini spans the third 30° of the zodiac. The Sun transits this sign from
about May 21 to June 20, and Gemini rules the third house of the zodiac.



Gemini is a day mutable air sign and is one of two signs ruled by
Mercury in his mind/messenger incarnation. This sign symbolizes the twins
and is represented by a glyph of twins that are both separate and connected.
Gemini represents the stage of life when we begin to communicate verbally
and to realize both our connection to and our separation from each other.

Sagittarius is the sign that is in polarity to Gemini. Just as Gemini is the
sign of the twins, there are a few gemstones said to be lucky for the sign.
Yellow stones are most often seen as lucky, such as agate, citrine, and
amber. It’s no surprise that Gemini’s lucky metal is mercury itself. Gemini
is associated with the chest, lungs, nervous system, arms, and shoulders.

Gemini is the thinker and symbolizes the mind, voice, and
communication. Their inner life is curious, observant, often scattered, and
may be highly strung. Geminis are seen as social and verbally expressive
but sometimes manipulative and duplicitous.

John F. Kennedy, Donald Trump, Paul McCartney, Prince, and Bob
Dylan were all born under the sign of Gemini.

CANCER 
Cancer is the fourth sign of the zodiac. From about June 21 to July 20, the
Sun transits the sign of Cancer.

Cancer is a night cardinal water sign. The sign is represented by the crab
and its glyph is the two pincers of the crab in protective mode. This already
says a lot about the energy of the sign of Cancer, as Cancers are primarily
introverted and protective. The polarity to Cancer is the earth sign of
Capricorn. The lucky metal and gemstones associated with the sign are
reflective of its ruler, the Moon: The metal is silver, and the stones are
moonstone, pearl, and white quartz. Cancer is associated with the stomach,
chest, and breast.

“Feel” is the primary word for this sign and Cancers are all emotion and
intuition. Cancer is the nurturer of the zodiac and very tradition-and family-
oriented. Inwardly, the sign is extremely sensitive and can tend toward
being insecure and giving too much, to the point of ignoring their own
needs. Others see them as responsive and loving, but they can also be
moody.

Princess Diana, the Dalai Lama, Tom Cruise, and Meryl Streep were all
born under the sign of Cancer.



Popular Astrology Forecasts
Astrological forecasts that appear on online sites and in magazines and
newspapers are the analysis of the chart for each of the signs as a whole
and are general in nature. They do, however, have validity, especially if
you know your rising sign and can read the forecast for that sign as well
as the sun sign.

These forecasts, when done well, will look at the primary transits of
the planets currently and how they affect each astrological house after
placing the sun sign on the cusp of the first house in a chart for the
current time.

For example, if Pluto is in Capricorn by transit and being activated
by other transits, and you have a Libra sun, then the forecast will be
based on a chart with your Libra sun on the first house cusp. This chart
will then show Pluto transiting in your third house, as Capricorn is the
third sign after Libra. This may not be your actual third house in your
natal chart but will still have some resonance.

If you are Libra rising, then the forecast will be speaking generally
about the areas of life contained by your own third house. If you like to
read general forecasts, knowing your ascendant will be beneficial.

LEO 

The fifth sign of the zodiac is Leo. The Sun transits the sign of Leo from
around July 21 to August 20.

Leo is a day fixed fire sign and is ruled by the Sun. The lion is the
symbol of this regal sign and its glyph represents the lion’s head and mane.
The sign of polarity is Aquarius. Unsurprisingly, gold is the metal
associated with Leo and the lucky gemstones are golden and amber colors,
such as amber, tiger’s eye, and yellow topaz. Leo rules the heart, spine, and
upper back.

Leos are born to lead, and that is their primary word. Whether king,
queen, or leader in their own home, Leos are born to shine and charm. They



crave attention and tend to be melodramatic and superior when in shadow.
Otherwise, Leos are dynamic, self-confident, and playful. At their best, they
are magnetic and affectionate and light up the lives of those around them
because they carry the Sun’s radiance within.

Barack Obama, Bill Clinton, Madonna, and James Baldwin were all
born under the sign of Leo.

VIRGO 

The sixth sign of the zodiac is Virgo. The Sun transits the sign of Virgo
from around August 21 to September 20.

Virgo is a night mutable earth sign, the second sign to be ruled by
Mercury, but in a more technical, detail-oriented, hands-on incarnation.
This sign is represented by the maiden or virgin, meaning in this case, “one
who is whole unto herself.” Its glyph resembles the letter M, for “maiden,”
carrying a shaft of wheat to represent the harvest. This suggests a state of
being that reflects the energies of Virgo, rather than merely a gender. Pisces
is the sign in polarity to Virgo. Like Gemini, the other Mercury-ruled sign,
Virgo’s metal is mercury itself and the lucky gemstones associated with the
sign are sapphire, jade, and jasper. The digestive system and spleen are
associated with Virgo.

Virgo energy embodies the principle of service, as they love to feel
useful in the world. Virgos are attentive to detail and very analytical. Their
inner world is often self-critical and they are worriers. They can tend to
servitude rather than service and forget to take care of themselves in the
process. Others see Virgos as ethical and organized, though I find it to be
somewhat of a myth that Virgos are always tidy. This is, in part, because
their perfectionist tendencies can lead to analysis paralysis. “Analyze” is
the primary word for Virgo.

Prince Harry, Mother Teresa, Bernie Sanders, and Freddie Mercury of
Queen were all born under the sign of Virgo.

LIBRA 

Libra is the seventh sign of the zodiac. Libra season has the Sun transiting
the sign from around September 21 to October 20.



Libra is a day cardinal air sign. Libra is ruled by Venus in her more
cerebral incarnation. The symbol of Libra is the scales and its glyph reflects
both balance and the setting sun as we enter autumn in the northern
hemisphere (or the rising sun in the southern hemisphere). Aries is the sign
of polarity. Peridot and topaz are Libra’s lucky gemstones and the
associated metal is copper. The kidneys, skin, lower back, and buttocks are
ruled by Libra.

“Balance” is the primary word for Libras, because they try to find the
middle ground and harmonious balance in all that they do. Libra is the
diplomat and mediator of the zodiac. Because of that, they can come across
as indecisive, vacillating, and even passive-aggressive at times. Generally,
Libra comes across as fair, peace-loving, and creative. Inwardly, they are
focused on others and relationships.

Examples of well-known Librans are Mahatma Gandhi, Serena
Williams, Will Smith, and Oscar Wilde.

SCORPIO 

Ruling the eighth house and, therefore, the eighth sign is Scorpio. The Sun
transits the sign of Scorpio from around October 21 to November 20.

Scorpio is a night fixed water sign ruled by Pluto (modern) and Mars
(traditional). A deep and complex sign, both its symbol and its glyph
represent the scorpion, its stinger suggesting the potentially stinging nature
of Scorpio. As a highly complex and transformational sign, however,
Scorpio is also associated with the serpent, a symbol of transformation, and
the phoenix, a symbol of rebirth. Taurus is the sign of polarity. Iron and
steel are associated with Scorpio and ruby and garnet are the lucky
gemstones. Scorpio rules the reproductive system and sexual organs.

“Desire” is the primary word for the sign of Scorpio, as it reflects the
emotional depth and complexity of this magnetic and private sign. Scorpio
is seen as magnetic, powerful, and sometimes intimidating by others.
Internally, they can be brooding and obsessive but also deeply instinctual
and psychological. When Scorpios are able to dive into the most
emotionally intense issues of life, they are able to connect with their true
power.



Pablo Picasso, Hedy Lamarr, RuPaul, Leonardo DiCaprio, Lisa Bonet,
and John Gotti were all born under the sign of Scorpio.

Different Uses for Astrology
Although this book deals with natal astrology, it’s important to note that
astrology has many uses that can be explored both separately and in
conjunction with the natal chart.
MUNDANE ASTROLOGY is the astrology of events, organizations,
elections, countries, and weather events. The word “mundane” is from
the Latin mundanus, meaning “worldly.” Any event or organization has
an inception chart, which is read in a similar way to the natal chart.
FINANCIAL ASTROLOGY is a specialty that predicts financial events and
cycles.
HORARY ASTROLOGY is a tool used to answer a specific question based
on the time the question is posed. This technique is used for anything
where a question can be asked, such as “Where are my keys?”
MEDICAL ASTROLOGY is used to diagnose and treat illness and can also
be used for prevention, as it can show areas of weakness in a person’s
health.
ASTROCARTOGRAPHY, OR LOCATIONAL ASTROLOGY, is based on
planetary lines drawn around the globe to indicate how a facet of a
person’s life is either enhanced or diminished by living in a specific
place.

SAGITTARIUS 
The sign ruling the ninth house is Sagittarius. The Sun transits the sign from
around November 21 to December 20.

Sagittarius is a day mutable fire sign ruled by Jupiter. The glyph for
Sagittarius is an arrow pointing to the stars and reflects the symbol of the
archer, who is half-human and half-horse. Both the glyph and symbol reflect



the forward-thinking visionary energy of the sign. Gemini is the sign in
polarity. Sagittarius rules the hips, thighs, and liver. Turquoise and amethyst
are the lucky stones for Sagittarius, and the metal is tin.

“Wander” and “wonder” are the primary words for Sagittarius, because
they like to wander—physically and mentally—and they often live in a state
of wonder at the world. Sagittarius is the seeker of truth and freedom and
loves exploration of all kinds. They are often seen as naive, inspirational,
and eternal optimists. Spiritually oriented and visionary, they have the
ability to see the big picture of life. If Sagittarius embraces life as a quest
for experience and truth, their tendency toward naïveté can become higher
wisdom.

Walt Disney, Jane Fonda, Jimi Hendrix, Jay-Z, and Gianni Versace were
all born under the sign of Sagittarius.

CAPRICORN 

The 10th sign of the zodiac is Capricorn, and it is ruled by Saturn. The Sun
transits the sign of Capricorn from around December 21 to January 20.

Capricorn is a night cardinal earth sign. The symbol for Capricorn is the
sea goat, and the glyph represents the hoof of the goat with the tail of a fish
—this softer side of Capricorn has been lost in many astrological texts. The
polarity of the sign is Cancer. Capricorn rules the skeletal system, teeth, and
joints. Capricorn’s metal is lead and the gemstone is ruby.

The primary word for Capricorn is “achieve.” Capricorns are focused
on climbing the ladder of achievement but may have a tendency to do so
based on the expectations of the outer world rather than based on a
foundation of self-trust, which is where the tail of the fish comes in.
Capricorn is seen as responsible and determined but also, at times,
controlling and fearful. Inwardly, although Capricorn is hardworking and
law-abiding, there is often an underlying fear of never being enough. Their
commitment and leadership qualities are their strengths.

Jeff Bezos, Elvis Presley, Michelle Obama, and Betty White were all
born under the sign of Capricorn.

AQUARIUS 



Ruling the 11th house of the zodiac is Aquarius. The Sun transits the sign of
Aquarius from around January 21 to February 20.

Aquarius is a day fixed air sign and is ruled by Uranus (modern) and
Saturn (traditional). Although the symbol for Aquarius is the water bearer,
what the glyph actually represents is waves of energy—the symbol is
pouring spirit or energy down from the heavens. This indicates the
otherworldly quality of the sign. The polarity of this sign is Leo. The sign’s
associated metal is lead and the gemstones are obsidian and sapphire.
Aquarius rules the calves, ankles, and nervous system.

Aquarians are the individuals of the zodiac and their primary word is
“know.” Aquarians are sometimes seen as the weirdos of the zodiac, as they
are unpredictable, inventive, and original in nature. Aquarians are socially
conscious and are dedicated to causes and reform, but they can also be
emotionally distant and even anarchistic at times. Because they often feel
alienated from those around them, they are sometimes tempted to betray
their convictions to fit in, but their path is to embody their personal truth no
matter what.

Oprah Winfrey, Bob Marley, Ellen DeGeneres, and Franklin D.
Roosevelt were all born under the sign of Aquarius.

PISCES 

The 12th and final sign of the zodiac is Pisces. From around February 21 to
March 20, the Sun transits the sign of Pisces.

Pisces is a night mutable water sign. The symbol for Pisces is the fish
and its glyph represents two fish swimming in different directions yet
connected by a cord. If we look at the zodiac as a path of human
development, Pisces is the time of death and the time before birth, the
amniotic fluid. Endings and beginnings. Neptune (modern) and Jupiter
(traditional) are the rulers of Pisces. The polarity of the sign is Virgo. Pisces
rules the feet, the lymphatic system, and the third eye. The stones
corresponding to this sign are white diamond, aquamarine, and amethyst,
and the metal is tin. Pisces is the most spiritual and compassionate sign and
their primary word is “believe.” They are seen as highly sensitive, creative,
and mystical beings. Pisces often struggle with boundaries and are extreme
empaths, which can cause them to fall into the role of victim or martyr. Like



the symbol of the fish swimming in two directions, it’s the lesson of Pisces
to live in the realms of the manifest and the mystical. If they can become
comfortable with being an agent of spirit in the physical realm, they will
avoid the escapist and addictive tendencies they may turn to on occasion.
Pisces is associated with the energies of magic and the movies.

Fred Rogers (Mr. Rogers), Dr. Seuss, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, and Kurt
Cobain were all born under the sign of Pisces.






CHAPTER FOUR

The Ascendant or Rising Sign and
Decans

IN THIS CHAPTER, I will be discussing the 12 rising signs of the
zodiac, also called the ascendants. Your rising sign is the sign that

was on the eastern horizon at the moment of your birth and is the angle of
nine o’clock on the astrological chart. More precisely, it’s where the horizon
line or plane intersects the ecliptic plane, the apparent plane of the Sun
throughout the year from our perspective. Refer to Further Reading for
resources on how to find your ascendant.

The ascendant is how people see you when they first meet you and what
you present to others, often called the “persona” or “mask”—I prefer the
term “receptionist,” but any will work. It’s the most visible aspect of a
person when they show up in the world, the first impression others have of
you. It also represents the conditioning brought by your birth and early
childhood. All that you are is filtered through your ascendant. The exact
time of birth is needed to accurately calculate your rising sign, as the
ascendant is based on that date, time, and place.

Every chart has a ruling planet, and it’s the planet that rules the sign on
the ascendant that is the person’s ruling planet. For example, if a chart has
Sagittarius rising, the ruling planet is Jupiter. The ruling planet is one of the
most important planets in any chart. The placement of that planet, and any
planets that are conjunct or close to the ascendant, will modify the energy of
the ascendant. Looking at all of this together is how we begin to create a
picture of an individual, because although all people with the same rising
sign will be similar, we are each unique once we begin to blend the whole
chart.

We’ll also be looking at the decans of each sign. Every sign spans 30°,
and then each sign can be further broken down into 10° sections called
decans. There are two systems of decans. I will be using the triplicity
system, which assigns one of the same element of the sign to each decan.
The first 10° belong to the sign itself, that is, Aries/Aries. The next 10°



belong to the next sign in the same triplicity or element, that is, Aries/Leo,
and the third 10° belong to the remaining sign in the triplicity, that is,
Aries/Sagittarius. The other system of decans is the Chaldean system, which
assigns one of the seven visible planets as ruler to each 10° decan. This
system is less commonly used in modern astrology.

THE ASCENDANT
Let’s look further into the ascendants for each sign of the zodiac. Any
physical or characteristic descriptions are mostly based on observation by
astrologers over time. Physical and other characteristics I describe
throughout this book are based on generalities and should not be considered
defining characteristics.

Aries Rising 

Aries rising is a day sign and these people are very active and
straightforward. Usually they are quick of movement and oriented toward
sports and competitive activities—though their competitiveness is often
self-directed. They often dive straight into things and go after what they
want without always having thought things through. Aries rising does
everything at full speed and likes to be on the move.

They are usually seen as pioneers and leaders, though they have
difficulty finishing what they start. There will be no doubt when an Aries
rising wants to be in relationship with you, whether as a friend or more.
Their directness is a positive but can be overwhelming for some.

Mars is the ruling planet of those born with this ascendant and the
placement of that ruling planet will give even more information about how
this person operates in the world. Additionally, any planets close to the
ascendant will temper the energy. For example, Saturn will really put the
brakes on the fast energy of the rising sign.

Rihanna, John Lennon, and Samantha Fox were all born with Aries
rising.

Taurus Rising 



I always think of Taurus rising as a strongly rooted tree with a big thick
trunk, because they are steady and solid, immovable if others try to push
them. In appearance, they often have a sturdy and solid look and usually
like to be dressed in quality clothing, but nothing over the top. They have a
very soothing presence, which makes them comfortable to be around unless
you try to push them. They are, however, extremely loyal, to the point
where they see others almost as belonging to them.

Taurus rising, a night sign, will usually move at a steady pace and
doesn’t like being pushed or rushed. Everything about them is sensual, in
that they are attracted to nice smells, tastes, sounds, and touches. They may
also have a pleasant voice.

Their ruling planet is Venus, and the placement of Venus will tell more
about a specific individual. For example, if Venus is in Gemini, this may
make an individual more flexible than the Taurus ascendant alone implies.
Venus in Gemini may add to their sociability and the likelihood that they
will use their pleasant voice in some way, such as for singing. Planets that
conjunct the ascendant will also modify the energy.

Martin Luther King, Boy George, and Miley Cyrus were all born with
Taurus rising.

Gemini Rising 

Gemini-rising individuals are highly social but also the most chaotic of
rising signs. The sign of the twins can argue from both sides of any subject,
making them great debaters, but this makes them seem duplicitous, which
can be difficult for some more sensitive signs.

Gemini rising are endlessly curious and witty and a joy to have around
in a social environment. Their attention spans are short, however, so expect
them to flit to the next thing very quickly. This restlessness gives them a
nervous outer appearance at times, as they are constantly fidgeting. They
are usually quite slender in appearance and will often have long artistic
fingers, which you will usually see fiddling with something while they are
talking. They are very good at multitasking, so although it may seem they
are distracted and not listening, this isn’t always the case.

Mercury is the ruling planet for Gemini and that planet’s placement will
say more about the person than the rising sign alone. A planet that conjuncts
the ascendant will also temper this sign’s energy. For example, Pluto



conjuncting the Gemini ascendant will bring an intensity and depth not seen
in all Gemini-rising people.

Bruce Springsteen, Ricky Martin, and Gene Wilder were all born with
this rising sign.

Cancer Rising 
Individuals born with Cancer rising, a night sign, are highly sensitive and
loving souls, the gentlest and most nurturing of people. Like the crab, which
is the symbol of Cancer, they are shy and protective, preferring to slide
sideways and quietly into any space. They also have a tendency toward
moodiness and can either retreat into their shell or get needy when their
mood is down. They are often described as “moon faced” and are often
thought of as attractive. As Cancer rules the stomach, they may also have a
tendency to gain weight and have digestive issues when feeling
overwhelmed.

Their empathic “sponge-like” nature adds to this. Cancer rising feels
everyone and everything around them and they are best served learning
ways to protect their energy when they meet others, so they don’t go into
their moody hermit mode.

The Moon is the ruling planet of Cancer, and that represents mothering
or nurturing energy, which explains why others are drawn to Cancer-rising
people for care when it’s needed. The placement of the Moon in the chart of
the Cancer-rising person, however, provides a deeper level of understanding
of the person. For example, the Moon in Aries will be more likely to want
people to express their emotions directly and to also do this themselves.

Angelina Jolie, Julia Roberts, Tyra Banks, and John Travolta all have
Cancer rising.

Leo Rising 

Leo-rising people are ruled by the Sun and it shows in their appearance, as
they often have a lion’s mane head of hair and a sunny round face. They are
magnetic and light up any room when they enter, making an immediate
impression. They are dramatic and demonstrative and love attention. They
are sometimes loud, sometimes regal, but always commanding. They often
dress for attention, as well.



Where this is less positive is if they don’t get the attention and adulation
they seek; their inner child can get bossy and have tantrums. Leo-rising
people are big kids at heart and really just want to be loved and to survey
their kingdom or queendom with benevolence. They make better leaders
than workers, though they tend toward rashness at times.

The Sun is the center of our solar system and all the planets and the
Earth revolve around it; this also suggests the character of the Leo-rising
individual. They tend to think that the world revolves around them, and it
often does. As the ruling planet, the placement of the Sun and any planets
close to the ascendant modify the energy of the ascendant. A Virgo sun, for
example, will be much less exuberant than some other placements.

Muhammad Ali, Tina Turner, Meryl Streep, and George W. Bush were
born with Leo rising.

The Persona
“Persona” is a term used to describe the ascendant or rising sign. This
was a term developed by Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung, who
characterized it as “a kind of mask, designed on the one hand to make a
definite impression upon others, and on the other to conceal the true
nature of the individual.”

Jung, and most modern western astrologers, see the ascendant
through this lens. We often identify more with our ascendant when
young and begin the individuation process as we mature. It’s entirely
possible to overidentify with the social adaptation of the ascendant and
for it to mask our authentic self through overadaptation to the outer
image.

As the persona, in Jungian terms, is the public image, we often find
public figures overidentifying with their public image.

To quote Jung, “One could say, with a little exaggeration, that the
persona is that which in reality one is not, but which oneself, as well as
others, think one is.”

Astrology aims to encourage the person to individuate beyond the
persona.



Virgo Rising 

Virgo-rising people are the analysts and worriers of the zodiac. Their
childhood may have had a parent obsessing over their health, weight, and
appearance, which leaves them with a certain fastidiousness about these
matters. Because they are standing back and analyzing situations and are
quite shy, they can come across as reserved and standoffish, but they warm
up as you get to know them. Once you do get to know them, you will find
that their natural desire to help others makes them a loyal friend.

The tendency to overanalyze and seek perfection makes them anxiety-
prone, especially if they aren’t busy with projects and if they can’t have
everything in an order that suits them. They are usually neatly dressed and
seem a little uptight.

As a mutable sign, they are not fixed in their ideas, but they have to
review the evidence before they shift. “Modest” is a great word for Virgo-
rising souls, and they usually have a graceful demeanor.

Mercury is the ruler of Virgo and the placement of Mercury and any
planets close to the ascendant will modify the energy of the sign. For
example, if Mercury is in the fixed sign Scorpio, their investigative quality
will be much more piercing, as will their critical tendency.

Woody Allen, Hugh Hefner, Oscar Wilde, and Betty Ford were all born
with Virgo rising.

Libra Rising 
Libra-rising individuals are very pleasant and charming to be around. They
dislike conflict, so they are always seeking to mediate and play nice. They
are generally attractive to look at and have a lovely round and sweet-
looking appearance that adds to their charm. They are often slender. People
are just attracted to Libra-rising individuals, who like to have relationships
with others because they tend to see themselves through others’ eyes and
find it hard to be alone.

They can also have a tendency to have a passive-aggressive streak in
relationships, as they may expect others to fulfill unrealistic expectations.
This is a product of their well-known indecisiveness, as they are constantly
trying to balance those Libra scales by looking at all sides.



The ruling planet of Libra rising is Venus in her less manifest energy of
loving beauty, relationship, and harmony. The placement of Venus and any
planets close to the ascendant will modify the rising sign. If Mars is
conjuncting the ascendant, for example, the tendency toward passive
aggression will be heightened.

Jennifer Aniston, Leonardo DiCaprio, Sally Field (her famous “you
really like me” Oscar acceptance speech is classic Libra rising), and Venus
Williams are all Libra rising.

Scorpio Rising 

Magnetic, intimidating, and intense are all words that describe those with
Scorpio rising, a night sign. They are very private and even secretive about
their inner life, which creates a mystique around them. They often have a
slightly brooding appearance with penetrating eyes. Scorpio rising
approaches everything with intensity, often to the point of obsession. They
dig deeply into everything and have penetrative investigative traits,
including seeming to see into others’ souls.

Because of their very private nature, they often have problems
expressing the deep swirl of emotions that their intense nature brings—
sometimes even to themselves. They do, however, emanate a deep power
and are usually passionate and creative about everything they do.

Pluto is the ruling planet of Scorpio-rising people and the placement of
Pluto will modify the rising sign. For example, someone with Pluto in the
third house will be more likely to be chatty and less focused. Planets that
conjunct the ascendant also modify the impact of the rising sign.

Aretha Franklin, David Lynch, Robin Williams, and Prince were all
born with Scorpio rising.

The Descendant
The polarity point to the ascendant or rising sign is the descendant, or
seventh-house cusp, which is the sign that was on the western horizon
from the perspective of the date, time, and place of birth.



The descendant is an important consideration when exploring what
kind of person you are attracted to and whom you attract in all
significant relationships. This can also indicate blind spots within you
that you aspire to personally develop through partnerships. It could be
said that your ascendant is day energy, or what you put out into the
world, and your descendant is night energy, or what you receive from
others through partnership.

The blind spots the descendant represents are called the “disowned
self.” In other words, we see something in others that irritates us until
we recognize that it’s actually a part of us that needs acknowledgement.
For example, you may find it irritating that your partner is detached
emotionally if you have Aquarius on the descendant, but once you
become aware of it, you are able to realize that it’s actually something
you need to work on within yourself—it can be a big awakening. In
other words, what felt like aloofness can become a sense of freedom.
This is also known as mirror work, where we transmute any irritating
qualities into positive traits to be developed. This is an important factor
to consider when looking at compatibility.

Sagittarius Rising 

Sagittarius-rising people are fun and freedom loving. They have an air of
enthusiasm and optimism about life that few other rising signs have. They
are adventurers and are always seeking experiences that will enhance their
lives, sometimes traveling extensively and living in places other than where
they were born. They also travel in their minds and often have a big library
of books or many books next to their bed.

Those born under this rising sign are often so full of excitement and
opinions gained from their explorations that they tend to lack tact and may
suffer from foot-in-mouth syndrome. Their likeability and sense of humor
generally stop them from getting into too much trouble, however. They are
also seen as a little naive.

In appearance, they are often quite tall and rangy and are on the move
much of the time, as if they are in a hurry to get to the next experience—
which they probably are.



Sagittarius rising’s ruling planet is Jupiter and the placement of that or
planets near the ascendant will modify the sign. Saturn on the ascendant, for
example, will make this person less outgoing and more inclined to appear
serious.

Jamie Lee Curtis, Arsenio Hall, Princess Diana, and Hans Christian
Andersen were all born with Sagittarius rising.

Capricorn Rising 

Capricorn-rising people are the most ambitious of the zodiac and are very
serious and work-oriented. They are definitely not the party animals of the
zodiac. They do often have a dry sense of humor with impeccable timing,
however. Their appearance is usually lean and quite angular with bright
eyes and they are often dressed for success, preferring an earthy palette of
clothing colors.

Because of their serious demeanor, Capricorn-rising people can come
across as quite cold emotionally, though they really aren’t—they just don’t
show emotion easily. Capricorn-rising individuals may have had a difficult
childhood or been given a lot of responsibility early in life. They usually
loosen up with age. These individuals tend to like security and to be the
provider for their family and partners, but there’s also an undercurrent of
fear of not being or doing enough.

Saturn is the ruling planet for Capricorn and both Saturn’s placement
and any other planets near the ascendant will modify the rising sign energy.
For example, if Saturn is in Pisces, they will be more intuitive and
connected to their creative side.

Queen Elizabeth II, Jane Fonda, Taylor Swift, and Joseph Stalin were all
born with Capricorn rising.

Aquarius Rising 
Those born with Aquarius rising, a day sign, are quirky, curious, and more
than a little rebellious. They are friendly and love a good intellectual
meeting of the minds, especially if it involves the subject of how to save the
world, or at least a part of the world. They also love a good debate and play
devil’s advocate well. They are humanitarians, often idealistic and future-
oriented, and can paint their vision of what a more egalitarian world would
look like from a progressive viewpoint, as they often truly want a real



“humanhood” for people of all persuasions. They seem quite emotionally
detached while also caring about the world as activists.

Aquarius rising usually has a youthful appearance with a medium
stature and they tend to be drawn to wearing clothes seen as quirky or
individualistic in some way.

Uranus is the ruling planet of Aquarius and the placement of that planet
will modify the rising sign, as will any planets close to the ascendant. For
example, if the Moon is close to the ascendant, they may be a little warmer
and more emotionally engaged.

Barack Obama, David Bowie, Nicki Minaj, and Carl Jung were all born
with Aquarius rising.

Pisces Rising 

Pisces-rising people are the dreamers of the zodiac, as they seem to float in
the realms of fantasy, and they are very soft hearted and compassionate. As
a mutable water sign, they are very reflective of those around them and are
empathic sponges, often having a shape-shifting quality that mirrors those
around them. They are imaginative and creative and one of the least
grounded rising signs, so they operate best with relationships that steady
them—they are susceptible to manipulative people.

Because of their extreme sensitivity, they are often vulnerable to drugs
of all kinds, including prescribed drugs. They may also be prone to
depression because the world doesn’t live up to their dreams and ideals.
They are often beautiful and have a shimmery, ethereal appearance that is
charming to most people. Kind people want to protect them.

Pisces rising’s ruling planet is Neptune and the placement of Neptune
will modify how the rising sign works. For example, Neptune in Taurus will
mean the person is more grounded and connected to earthly things. Planets
near the ascendant will also modify how the rising sign works.

Michael Jackson, Whitney Houston, Robert Redford (setting up
Sundance, a leading independent film festival, is a classic example), and
Bruno Mars all have Pisces rising.

DECANS



A decan is a subdivision of 10° of an astrological sign. Decans are complex
and have been developed from Egyptian times, when they were first based
on 36 fixed stars, dividing 360° into 36 sections. These decans were merged
with the 12 signs of the zodiac in the first century CE, when the Egyptian
and Mesopotamian traditions converged.

From that point, two systems emerged, and we are going to explore the
triplicity system to give more information about each person. Each person
will have their sun in a decan, which deepens the understanding of that
placement. The dates in each decan refer to your birth date.

The Decans of Aries
The first decan, ruled by Mars, is the Aries decan. People born under this
decan are the true pioneers of the zodiac and are very action-oriented,
driven, and courageous. They approach life with the zeal of a child and
have a lovely innocence in their enthusiasm. You are in this decan if your
sun is from 0° to 9° Aries, and approximate dates for this decan are March
21 through March 31.

The second decan of Aries is ruled by the Sun and is the Leo decan. The
Sun and Leo bring a regal quality to these people, who like to shine in the
world and receive a lot of attention. The fixed quality of Leo brings a
certain immovable quality to the leadership energy of this decan, meaning
that they stick to their aims no matter what others want. This can be the
energy of the pompous leader. You are in this decan if your sun is from 10°
to 19° Aries, and approximate dates for this decan are April 1 through April
11.

The third decan of Aries is ruled by Jupiter and is the Sagittarius decan.
Jupiter brings an expansiveness and seeking quality to the sign of Aries.
Aries energy is usually focused, but this decan likes to explore and search
for their personal truth. They are very much individuals who go their own
way. You are in this decan if your sun is from 20° to 29° Aries, and
approximate dates for this decan are April 12 through April 21.

The Decans of Taurus
The first decan, ruled by Venus, is the Taurus decan. This person is stable
and very connected to the Earth and the material world. This decan has a
very instinctive body knowledge, which means that they love to nourish



their body with good food, things that are tactile, and things that generally
make them feel good. Overindulgence and inflexibility can be the downside
of this energy, but they do have a very peaceful and loving presence and are
usually very sensual and sexual. You are in this decan if your sun is from 0°
to 9° Taurus, and approximate dates for this decan are April 22 to May 1.

The second decan is ruled by Mercury and is the Virgo decan. The
influence of Mercury and Virgo brings more flexibility to the usually
stubborn Taurus energy. These people are pragmatic and realistic but in a
very quiet and unassuming way. The sensitivity of Virgo and Mercury can
make them come across as dull to others of a more visionary and idealistic
nature, as they are the people who will always tell others they aren’t living
in reality. You are in this decan if your sun is from 10° to 19° Taurus, and
approximate dates for this decan are May 2 to May 11.

The third decan of Taurus is ruled by Saturn and is the Capricorn decan.
These people are a little more blocked off from the indulgent energy of
Taurus, as they can be too busy building and climbing to enjoy the fruits of
their labor—though they do still love to own the good things in life. They
have a more austere presence and may seem boring to some. They are,
however, master builders of solid and lasting structures in their life, whether
it be a career, a home base, or a family. Once you get to know the person
behind the urge to build, they can be quite funny and sensual under the
surface. You are in this decan if your sun is from 20° to 29° Taurus, and
approximate dates for this decan are May 12 to May 21.

The Decans of Gemini
The first decan of Gemini is ruled by Mercury and is the Gemini decan.
Those born with the sun in this decan are extremely curious, and you will
always find them taking in information from a variety of sources. They are
also likely to be scattered and easily distracted as they flit from one thing to
another. This is also known as shiny object, or squirrel, syndrome. Their
mind is very quick, and they make sense of a lot of information in a
detached way, but because of their tendency to be easily distracted, they
rarely go deeply into any one subject. You are in this decan if your sun is
from 0° to 9° Gemini, and approximate dates for this decan are May 22 to
June 1.

The second decan of Gemini is ruled by Venus and is the Libra decan.
These are social people who want to be around and converse with others as



much as possible. They are, like all Geminis, curious and want to know all
about you and what makes you tick. Their natural curiosity also draws them
to study art or the wonders of nature, for example. They have a tendency to
see themselves through the eyes of others, however, and that can lead to
difficulty making any decisions without others’ input. They make really
good mediators, as they see the good in people and can present that to the
other side in a negotiation. You are in this decan if your sun is from 10° to
19° Gemini, and approximate dates for this decan are June 2 to June 11.

The third decan of Gemini is ruled by Uranus and is the Aquarius decan.
These are the big-picture thinkers who are able to come up with innovative
concepts. They are the most emotionally detached and can, for that reason,
seem distant from others. However, that’s because they are taking the
bird’s-eye view and seeing the connections needed to help humanity as a
whole. Their breadth of knowledge is enormous and their vision is like a
giant puzzle put together with seemingly disparate pieces. They are usually
very friendly but will want to talk about some big ideas rather than engage
in small talk. You are in this decan if your sun is from 20° to 29° Gemini,
and approximate dates for this decan are June 12 to June 21.

The Decans of Cancer
The first decan of Cancer is ruled by the Moon and is the Cancer decan.
This makes for an extremely emotionally sensitive and compassionate
person who nurtures and cares for those they love with unending capacity
for an emotional connection. This can, however, lead to identifying with
this role to such a degree that they never communicate their own emotional
needs. This can lead to insecurity and emotionally manipulative behavior.
They are also likely to find it difficult to let go of past hurt feelings. They
love with intensity, which can be comforting for some and overwhelming
for others. You are in this decan if your sun is from 0° to 9° Cancer, and
approximate dates for this decan are June 22 to July 1.

The second decan of Cancer is ruled by Pluto and is the Scorpio decan.
These people’s emotions are as deep as the deepest ocean and, like the
ocean at those depths, those emotions can be hard to access and express.
Because of this, these people can seem almost emotionless and their natural
reserve adds to this. Of course, this is only the surface impression because
the opposite is true. They feel so very deeply that they are willing to do
anything for those they love, to the point of self-sacrifice. The depth of



Scorpio can also make them possessive of those they love, but they make
amazing listeners and can hold space for others like no one else. You are in
this decan if your sun is from 10° to 19° Cancer, and approximate dates for
this decan are July 2 to July 11.

The third decan of Cancer is ruled by Neptune and is the Pisces decan.
These are the most sensitive and gentle people you will ever meet. They
have a very ethereal presence, as their moods shift in response to all that is
around them. It’s often hard to know what they are really feeling, and they
themselves are not always aware. They, like those of the first decan, are
tireless when caring for those they love, but there’s the addition of a
tendency to feel like a victim when they feel others take advantage of them.
These people must learn to create better personal boundaries. You are in this
decan if your sun is from 20° to 29° Cancer, and approximate dates for this
decan are July 12 to July 21.

The Decans of Leo
The first decan of Leo is ruled by the Sun and is the Leo decan. This is the
ruler of all, or at least that is how this person sees themselves. They see
themselves as special and entitled to be leaders or adored in all that they do,
in the nicest possible way. They feel as if they were born to be first and, in
many respects, they are right, as they radiate warmth and a regal presence.
Leo is ruled by the heart and many belonging to this decan are benevolent
leaders, but they often lack humility. When others don’t quite see them as
they see themselves or treat them with the attention they feel they deserve,
they can feel very hurt. You are in this decan if your sun is from 0° to 9°
Leo, and approximate dates for this decan are July 22 to August 1.

The second decan of Leo is ruled by Jupiter and is the Sagittarius decan.
These are the gamblers and risk takers of the sign, as the influence of
Jupiter brings an expansive vibe and a sense of being so lucky that all they
touch will turn to gold. It often does. They also tend to shower that sense of
well-being onto those around them because they are generous to a fault.
This tendency toward risk-taking can also lead them to overextend at times,
but they usually fall on their feet. You are in this decan if your sun is from
10° to 19° Leo, and approximate dates for this decan are August 2 to
August 11.

The third decan of Leo is ruled by Mars and is the Aries decan. This is
the warrior lion who will go out into the world with a sense of righteousness



and possibility, who truly believes they can achieve anything they desire.
Their will is so strong and desire so great that they often do achieve what
they set their heart on. The fixed quality of Leo makes them stick to
achieving those desires but can also make them stubborn and resistant to
any input from others, and they will rarely admit to making mistakes. They
are very open and honest, however, no matter what others say or think. You
are in this decan if your sun is from 20° to 29° Leo, and approximate dates
for this decan are August 12 through August 21.

The Decans of Virgo
The first decan of Virgo is ruled by Mercury and is the Virgo decan. Those
born under this decan have a very intellectual and extremely rational mind.
They are productive to a fault and always seek to make their day function
more productively so that they can be more useful with their time. They
enjoy intellectual relationships in which they can discuss plans and ideas
with those around them. They are also great worriers and their inner self-
critic is probably the strongest of all people in the zodiac, as they are
constantly analyzing everything. The mutable energy of the decan means
they are often course-correcting, which can be both a blessing and a curse.
You are in this decan if your sun is from 0° to 9° Virgo, and approximate
dates for this decan are August 22 to September 1.

The second decan of Virgo is ruled by Saturn and is the Capricorn
decan. The initiating energy of Saturn and Capricorn relieves some of the
potential analysis paralysis of Virgo and encourages them to take action to
create structures that give them material security. They tend to be
overachievers, seeking to keep building and making money, and are
investors more than spenders because that gives them the sense of
achievement they need. They can also throw in the towel on some projects
if they feel they are failing. They are very responsible and great managers
but their drive to achieve can mean they miss out on the lighter and more
fun side of life. You are in this decan if your sun is from 10° to 19° Virgo,
and approximate dates for this decan are September 2 to September 11.

The third decan of Virgo is ruled by Venus and is the Taurus decan. The
soothing presence of Venus and the steadying influence of Taurus make this
decan of Virgo less highly strung than others. Virgo likes to make things
with their hands, and you might find this decan being creative in any field
that requires them to mold or use other earthy materials, such as sculpture



or finger painting. These are slower moving people and generally quite
reserved and self-contained. They also like to dress well and look good, but
in a very neat manner. They are rarely flamboyant. You are in this decan if
your sun is from 20° to 29° Virgo, and approximate dates for this decan are
September 12 to September 21.

The Decans of Libra
The first decan of Libra is ruled by Venus and is the Libra decan. These
people are lovers of beauty, pleasure, and others. They love harmony, peace,
and for life to be smooth and lovely. They are happiest when in
relationships, and yet the shadow of Libra is that they can become
argumentative at times and will sometimes argue just for the sake of it.
They also have a keen sense of what works in business, and a balanced first
decan will utilize that and create a healthy work-life balance. When they are
as balanced as they can be, they tend to live in a place that is peaceful and
beautiful, both outwardly and inwardly. You are in this decan if your sun is
from 0° to 9° Libra, and approximate dates for this decan are September 22
to October 1.

The second decan of Libra is ruled by Uranus and is the Aquarius
decan. These people are more individualistic than the other decans of Libra,
and they are more drawn to the intellect of others in their lives rather than
how things look visually. They are also drawn to needing more personal
space to find the balance that Libra needs. You are in this decan if your sun
is from 10° to 19° Libra, and approximate dates for this decan are October 2
to October 11.

The third decan of Libra is ruled by Mercury and is the Gemini decan.
These are charming people who can woo others with their words, but they
are also more changeable and restless, which can upset the needed balance
and harmony integral to Libra. They are highly sociable and need to
converse with others on a regular basis. You are in this decan if your sun is
from 20° to 29° Libra, and approximate dates for this decan are October 12
to October 21.

The Decans of Scorpio
The first decan of Scorpio is ruled by Pluto and is the Scorpio decan. These
people are deep and extremely intense. They may, almost unconsciously,



play power games with others as they try to fulfill their deep longings and
desires. They are often possessive and can be obsessive, as they desire to
merge with those with whom they are in a relationship. They are not the
easiest people to be around, but they love very deeply if you can stand the
heat. You are in this decan if your sun is from 0° to 9° Scorpio, and
approximate dates for this decan are October 22 to November 1.

The second decan of Scorpio is ruled by Neptune and is the Pisces
decan. Those born under this decan are very intuitive and seductive. They
magnetize others with a glamour that sometimes doesn’t reveal what’s
really going on. Their imaginations are quite magical, and their ideals are
high but at times totally unrealistic. You are in this decan if your sun is from
10° to 19° Scorpio, and approximate dates for this decan are November 2 to
November 11.

The third decan of Scorpio is ruled by the Moon and is the Cancer
decan. The nurturing and loving qualities of the Moon and Cancer soften
the intensity of Scorpio considerably, though their receptive nature still
wants to connect with others at a deep emotional level. These people have
great loyalty but with a higher level of trust. You are in this decan if your
sun is from 20° to 29° Scorpio, and approximate dates for this decan are
November 12 to November 21.

The Decans of Sagittarius
The first decan of Sagittarius is the Sagittarius decan, ruled by Jupiter.
These people are adventurous and optimistic, though they may lack tact at
times. They often study higher philosophies and principles, including those
of various religions, and tend to be lifelong learners. They also can tend to
be on the dogmatic side and preach what they know. You are in this decan if
your sun is from 0° to 9° Sagittarius, and approximate dates for this decan
are November 22 to December 1.

The second decan of Sagittarius is ruled by Mars and is the Aries decan.
These people may be accident-prone, as Sagittarius in general tends to
gallop everywhere—combined with the headfirst energy of Mars, they may
not always look where they are going. They are constantly challenging
themselves and are usually completely open and honest. These people need
action and movement. You are in this decan if your sun is from 10° to 19°
Sagittarius, and approximate dates for this decan are December 2 to
December 11.



The third decan of Sagittarius is the Leo decan, which is ruled by the
Sun. This is another risk-taking placement, and the combination can lead
them to gamble in life as they seek adventure and experience. They are
people of integrity but also can let their pride get in the way as they aim
high, and that can lead to falls. You are in this decan if your sun is from 20°
to 29° Sagittarius, and approximate dates for this decan are December 12 to
December 21.

The Decans of Capricorn
The first decan of Capricorn is ruled by Saturn and is the Capricorn decan.
These people have great determination and can move mountains. They are
very serious and responsible. Because they have double the responsible
energy of Capricorn, they also can have double the fear of not being enough
and must be wary of working too hard because of their fear of failure. You
are in this decan if your sun is from 0° to 9° Capricorn, and approximate
dates for this decan are December 22 to January 1.

The second decan of Capricorn is ruled by Venus and is the Taurus
decan. The middle decans are often the most balanced and the middle
Capricorn decan is no different. The energy of Venus and Taurus means that
these people are still responsible and determined but will also make sure
they relax and enjoy the comforts their achievements bring. They are
happier with a slower approach to achievement. You are in this decan if
your sun is from 10° to 19° Capricorn, and approximate dates for this decan
are January 2 to January 11.

The third decan of Capricorn is ruled by Mercury and is the Virgo
decan. These people are more impatient than the first two decans of this
sign and are always seeking to make everything they do more functional, so
that they can get to the next thing faster. They have more of a nervy quality,
as they can feel held back by the relentless determination of Capricorn. You
are in this decan if your sun is from 20° to 29° Capricorn, and approximate
dates for this decan are January 12 to January 21.

The Decans of Aquarius
The first decan of Aquarius is the Aquarius decan, ruled by Uranus, and
these people are real individualists and nonconformists. They are
progressive-minded, sociable humanitarians, though they often have only a



small circle of friends. They are always thinking up new plans and ideas
and their minds are rarely still; their overthinking can lead to anxiety if they
don’t get some solitary downtime. You are in this decan if your sun is from
0° to 9° Aquarius, and approximate dates for this decan are January 22
through February 1.

The second decan of Aquarius is ruled by Mercury and is the Gemini
decan. These people have a similar nature to the first decan but with a
lighter feel. They are still individuals but are more social and curious about
the world rather than only abstract ideas. They are often literature lovers.
They are also usually great communicators with a desire to teach all that
they study to others. You are in this decan if your sun is from 10° to 19°
Aquarius, and approximate dates for this decan are February 2 through
February 11.

The third decan of Aquarius is the Libra decan, ruled by Venus. These
people are usually great politicians by nature because they are very good
with people and really care about bettering the lives of others. They can
usually see the best in people and want to help bring that out. They are often
very graceful and willowy. You are in this decan if your sun is from 20° to
29° Aquarius, and approximate dates for this decan are February 12 through
February 21.

The Decans of Pisces
The first decan of Pisces is ruled by Neptune and is the Pisces decan. These
people are almost pure psychic sponges, sensitive to all that is around them.
They are highly intuitive and connected to the collective unconscious. They
are usually attracted to mystical experiences, since they already inhabit
those realms. They are easily taken advantage of, as they have few
boundaries and they often seem to be a walking nebulous cloud of dreams
and creativity. You are in this decan if your sun is from 0° to 9° Pisces, and
approximate dates for this decan are February 22 through March 1.

The second decan of Pisces is the Cancer decan, ruled by the Moon.
These people are creative romantics but also crave security and safety the
most of all the decans. They are loyal to a fault to those they love and can
be very needy if they don’t feel secure. Their artistic and homemaking
abilities will blossom when they are secure. Those born under this decan
need the security of the home and close family bonds, but they also need a
lot of alone time within that structure. You are in this decan if your Sun is



from 10° to 19° Pisces, and approximate dates for this decan are March 2
through March 11.

The third decan of Pisces is ruled by Pluto and is the Scorpio decan.
Those born under this decan are often drawn to the realms of the hidden and
the taboo, such as the realms of magic, mediumship, and death. They are
often finely connected to the other side and may even see spirits. At the
very least, they are deeply intuitive and can sense what’s happening within
those around them. You are in this decan if your sun is from 20° to 29°
Pisces, and approximate dates for this decan are March 12 through March
21.









CHAPTER FIVE

Planets and Other Essential Bodies
THE ASTROLOGICAL CHART is created using many elements. This
chapter looks at the planets and other essential bodies, which can be

described as the “what” in the chart, with the signs being “how” the planets
work in you, and the houses being the “where,” or areas of life.

The “what” in your chart represents such things as your emotions, your
drive, your love nature, your mind, or to word it differently, integral parts of
the self. The different signs show how those parts of the self are represented
in a person and whether that is, for example, in a more enthusiastic manner
or a more reserved manner. The house, or the “where,” indicates the areas
of life in which the planet and sign operate most prevalently in individuals.

Historically, astrology used the two luminaries, Sun and Moon, and the
five visible planets: Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. Modern
astrology, however, also uses more recently discovered cosmic bodies.
Some of these are included here, and others will be discussed later in the
book.

In part 2 (see here), you will learn how to structure and interpret a birth
chart. These sections will be used as a reference as you integrate all of the
parts of the chart to create a holistic picture of the self.

THE SUN 

The Sun is the central organizing principle of both the solar system and the
self. It’s the core identity and the Sun in your chart energizes you. The Sun
is day energy, as the Sun clearly shines in the day and is an inhalation of
breath that energizes our bodies. Like the Sun in the solar system,
everything else revolves around this shining core. The Sun rules the sign of
Leo and the heart, and this indicates that the Sun is the heart of you. The
Sun is seen as a masculine or yang energy in modern western culture, but in
many other traditions the Sun has been seen as feminine because of its life-
giving qualities.



The Sun functions as your CEO or conductor, and when you are tuned
into the energy of your personal sun sign then you are operating at your
most aligned. The Sun also represents self-expression, sense of purpose,
creativity, and the ego in the healthiest of senses.

The highest expression of Sun energy is the benevolent leader who
lights up the lives of others and is energized by how they shine light on
others. In its lesser expression, the Sun can be boastful and egotistical. Like
the actual Sun in the solar system, however, the energy of the sun within us
can be dulled or blocked by other placements, and a sun sign that is blocked
makes it more difficult to express that energy.

THE MOON 

The Moon represents your emotional needs and your relationship to
feelings. It is night energy and the energy of an exhalation as we relax at the
end of the day. The sign of Cancer and the fourth house are both ruled by
the Moon. The Moon also represents your relationship to family, home, and
your ancestors.

The Moon is receptive and reflective, giving out no light of its own.
Because of that, western cultures have designated the Moon as yin or
feminine energy because of the portrayal of the feminine as passive. There
are other traditions, however, that believe the Sun is the ovum and the
Moon the sperm. The Moon is visibly night energy, where we exhale, rest,
and recover our energy.

The Moon is our basis of security and often represents the mother, or
the person who “mothered” you in your early life. The Moon rules body
rhythms, including menstrual cycles and the cycles of sleep, and it is a
commonly held belief that we sleep less and have more energy when the
Moon is full, and we are more inwardly focused and need alone time in the
dark of the Moon. As our Moon placement says a lot about our response to
the outer world, the actual phases of the Moon affect us also. There’s an ebb
and flow to all lunar energy.

MERCURY 



Mercury is both day and night energy and an inhale and exhale, since
Mercury rules the signs of Gemini, the twins, and Virgo, service and
usefulness. Mercury is the most nonbinary of the planetary bodies, and the
fact that the planet rules both the yang (day) air sign of Gemini and the yin
(earth) night sign of Virgo indicates this. Mercury is the first of the personal
planets after the luminaries, the Sun and Moon.

Mercury represents the mind, communication, the messenger, detail,
technical ability, perception, and learning. Mercury is also coordination,
how our mind tells our neural pathways to coordinate.

Depending on the placement of Mercury and how we are embodying
our Mercury, it can be curious, witty, sociable, and versatile or nervy,
overconcerned with detail, and even highly strung. Mercury is also
associated with the trickster archetype—the fact that the planet appears to
go retrograde three to four times each year is indicative of its trickster
nature, because Mercury retrograde is renowned for technical snafus and
miscommunications. The trickster archetype is one that turns conventional
rules and behavior on their heads.

Mercury is associated with Hermes, the messenger of the gods. It is the
closest planet to the Sun, our core, and transmits information from the core
to Earth. Mercury travels closely with the Sun from our perspective and is
always in the same sign as the Sun or one of the two adjacent signs.

VENUS 

Venus is generally known as the planet of love and, of course, modern
astrology has defined that as feminine, despite the fact that Venus rules both
Libra, a day air sign, and Taurus, a night earth sign. Like Mercury, Venus is
both day and night and an exhale and inhale. Modern astrology's definitions
reflect gender bias and why some have never identified with such concepts
as “men are from Mars and women are from Venus.”

Venus is the second of the personal planets, the second planet from the
Sun and the closest to the Earth. Venus, like Mercury, travels closely with
the Sun from our perspective and is always either in the same sign as or in
one of the adjacent signs to the Sun.

Venus rules the senses and, therefore, symbolizes the relationship to all
that can be seen, touched, heard, smelled, and tasted, which includes



people, nature, money, food, and things. Venus also symbolizes values, the
arts, beauty, sensuality, harmony, and mediation—as well as indecisiveness,
inertia, and overindulgence.

Venus has a cycle that reflects a more complex and binary energy: When
it rises above the Sun, Venus is the “morning star,” known as Phosphorus or
Lucifer, the light bearer, an outgoing yang (day) Venus. When it moves to
set after the Sun, Venus is the evening star, or Hesperus, which is a much
more receptive yin (night) placement. It’s good practice to look at this, as
well as sign and house placement and aspects to other planets, to give you a
full picture of an individual’s Venus.

Inclusivity
It’s important to reiterate that the horoscope or astrological chart does
not show gender, color, or even whether it belongs to a human being—
events, animals, or anything else can have a horoscope. Astrology is
archetypal and mythic but not essentially stereotypical. The stereotypes
that may have arisen have more to do with the practitioner and the
patriarchal conditioning of society.

Astrology itself does not need to change to be approached in an
inclusive and egalitarian way. Astrology itself is neutral. Instead, the
approach of the astrologer to their own biases and conditioning must
change.

In order to move astrology forward, astrologers must be aware of
and begin to shift their own biases and meet each client as a unique
individual. Many astrologers use an intake form when booking new
clients; seeing a question that asks what pronouns the client prefers is a
good thing to look for when choosing an astrologer to work with. Also
look at the language they use in their marketing and articles.

When looking at your own chart, I suggest developing the use of
the terms “day” and “night” and “inhale” and “exhale” as you interpret
it, while becoming aware of your own deeply entrenched gender-
normative attitudes. For example, someone with very strong fire and air
signs may be typically described as having a very “masculine” chart.



Saying the chart has a day and inhale emphasis is far more inclusive for
all people and attitudes.

MARS 

Mars is the last of the personal planets and the only personal planet to be
farther from the Sun than the Earth. As Mars leads us to the outer reaches of
the solar system and away from the Sun, the energy of the planet itself is
more outgoing. Mars rules Aries, the pioneer of the zodiac. Interestingly,
Mars also rules Scorpio in traditional astrology. Traditional astrology
generally refers to practices that use only the planets and essential bodies
that were visible to the naked eye, so that they assigned rulership of signs to
planetary bodies from the moon through Saturn. As traditional ruler of
Scorpio, the red planet displays a night, exhale designation. In modern
astrology, Mars is yang (day) energy.

Mars symbolizes action, drive, courage, leadership, assertion,
aggression, and anger. Mars is often said to symbolize fighting and
competition, but it must be pointed out that Venus-ruled Libra rules war
itself, as well as peace. Again, astrology is more complex than some might
think.

Mars is associated with physicality and competition in general. Knives
and guns are also images that connect to Mars. Mars is passion, impatience,
and life force, and as such is an inhalation of breath. Without Mars, we
would get little done in life. Mars helps us fulfill our desires. Mars is our
animalistic nature and we all have that to a greater or lesser degree,
dependent on the placement in the individual horoscope. In its night
incarnation as the traditional ruler of Scorpio, Mars is penetrative and
passionate.

JUPITER 

Jupiter is often called the first of the social planets, as we move farther
away from the Sun, and represents a transition from the personal planets to
the outer, more recently discovered, transpersonal or collective planets.
Jupiter is a day/inhale planet as ruler of fire sign Sagittarius. As traditional



ruler of Pisces, Jupiter is night or exhale. This diffuse energy must be taken
into account as you look at the planet in an individual’s chart.

Jupiter rules Sagittarius, the sign of truth seeking and belief, and the
ninth house. Jupiter is the guru or teacher of the zodiac and symbolizes the
god energy. In the Roman pantheon there was originally a council of six
gods and six goddesses called Dei Consentes, but Jupiter became the
primary god later in Roman culture.

The planet Jupiter, as god of the sky, symbolizes freedom, optimism,
generosity, luck, expansion, breadth, and truth. Jupiter is the prophet, the
sage, the world traveler and explorer. Jupiter also symbolizes grandiosity,
inflation, the braggart, and the soap box.

Jupiter is often seen as the lucky planet, and this can be true, but Jupiter
also represents overexpansion and overdoing of all kinds.

SATURN 

Saturn is the second of the social planets and the last of the original planets
visible to the eye that were used in traditional astrology. Saturn rules the yin
earth sign Capricorn, and yet characteristics that are traditionally seen as
masculine are attributed to the planet. We must remember that all genders
have these qualities within them. Saturn is a night, colder energy and is an
exhalation of breath as ruler of Capricorn. However, as traditional ruler of
Uranus, Saturn also exhibits day or inhale energy. Please take into account
the day or night energy of the sign placement of Saturn when you interpret
your chart. Saturn is also associated with the 10th house.

Saturn symbolizes external authority, as is fitting for what was thought
of as the outer limit of our solar system. Other symbols for Saturn are the
parent or father—or the energy of the parent who exhibited more yang
energy. Saturn symbolizes boundaries, rules and limitations, fear, denial,
and control. Saturn also symbolizes maturity, tradition, sensory reality, and
elderhood.

Saturn has been much maligned for these qualities at times, but
boundaries and a sensible awareness of limitations are important to be able
to build the structures of your life. It’s where we close the door, literally or
figuratively, to recoup after the action-oriented energy of the day. Saturn can



be the backbone and anchor of your life if you choose to work with the
placement in your chart.

URANUS 

Uranus is the first of the more recently discovered transpersonal planets,
those that are not visible to the naked eye. Uranus was discovered by
William Herschel in 1781 and it was quite a shock to discover a planet
beyond the boundary of the previously known solar system. Uranus rules
Aquarius and the 11th house. The discovery of Uranus opened up the
discovery of collective, larger forces, which led to opening the minds of
astrologers. Concepts such as the soul and major planetary cycles had
previously been limited by what was thought to be a closed system with
Saturn at the outer limit. This indicates the awakening energy and shattered
boundaries that Uranus symbolizes. Uranus also has a spin axis that is 98°
to the perpendicular, which sets it apart from other cosmic bodies.

Uranus represents individuality, uniqueness, unconventionality, and
independence. Uranus is the revolutionary and the rebel. As such, this is a
day energy of action and activity and an inhale. Where Uranus sits in a
horoscope shows where you will be called to go your own way and break
free from the status quo. Uranus is the inventive genius who is open to
information and ideas that have not been thought of before, or where
connections have not been made before.

NEPTUNE 

Neptune, the second of the transpersonal planets, was discovered in 1846.
Like the nebulous nature of Neptune itself, it was discovered by
mathematical prediction—based on hypotheses that a planetary body was
disturbing the orbit of Uranus—rather than simply through empirical
observation. We now know that Galileo actually observed Neptune in the
17th century, possibly mistaking it for a star. These confusing discovery
experiences are emblematic of Neptune’s symbolism.

Neptune rules Pisces and the 12th house and symbolizes illusion,
confusion, consciousness itself, psychic sensitivity, and trance-like creative
energy. All realms of mysticism and mystery are symbolized by Neptune, as



are addiction and victimization complexes. Neptune is boundaryless and
sacrificial, but also healing and gentle. Neptune energy dissolves and makes
all that it touches more nebulous. As a receptive and feeling planet, Neptune
is night energy or an exhale.

Dwarf Planets
The discovery of what are currently called dwarf planets by
astronomers is changing astrology further and at a faster rate than ever
before; these discoveries coincide with the shift of ages from the Age of
Pisces to the Age of Aquarius.

Astrological ages each represent a major time period in history.
Each astrological age lasts approximately 2,160 years and we move
through all the ages over 25,920 years. The Age of Pisces began around
the same time as the birth of Christianity, and we are currently in the
transition between the Age of Pisces and the next age, the Age of
Aquarius. (Ages go backward through the signs.)

The discovery of Eris in 2005 shook the world of astronomy and led
to the new designation of “dwarf planet” in 2006, as well as the
demotion of Pluto and promotion of Ceres, formerly believed to be an
asteroid, to the new designation.

Since the discovery of Eris, several other dwarf planets have been
discovered, including Haumea and MakeMake, with Sedna, Orcus,
Quaoar, Varuna, Ixion, and a few other trans-Neptunian objects in the
Kuiper belt being considered. Some estimates suggest that there are at
least 100 objects that may be classified as dwarf planets that have yet to
be discovered in the exploration of the Kuiper belt—and thousands
more beyond.

Many astrologers are beginning to explore some of these objects in
their work, but because this is a newly discovered realm of study with
new discoveries happening all the time, this book will only cover Pluto
and Ceres.



PLUTO 

Pluto is the last of the transpersonal planets used in most modern astrology.
In fact, Pluto is no longer a planet according to the astronomical world, as it
got demoted after the discovery of dwarf planet Eris. Asteroid Ceres got
promoted to dwarf-planet status at the same time, creating a whole new
classification of cosmic bodies. This did not, however, diminish the power
inherent in Pluto. Since Pluto is the energy of transformation, is it any
surprise that it, alongside the newly discovered dwarf planets, is
transforming astrology further? Pluto rules Scorpio and the eighth house
and is a night, or exhale, energy.

Pluto symbolizes personal transformation, psychological depth, and the
soul’s desire to evolve. As the guardian of the underworld, Pluto guards our
personal resources that are buried in the depths of our psyche. All things
that are seen by many as taboo are symbolized by Pluto, including sexuality,
repression, depression, and obsessive behaviors. Underlying reality and the
realms of karmic wounds are symbolized by Pluto. It’s an intense and
powerful energy, which represents both personal empowerment and
powerlessness.

PLANETARY DIGNITIES AND DEBILITIES
All planets are not only considered to have rulership over or domicile in one
or more signs, they are also considered to be more aligned with certain
signs and less so with others. These are called dignities and debilities.
Consideration of dignities and debilities after rulership will deepen your
understanding of the planets and signs in a horoscope.

The four essential dignities are:
• Rulership: This is where the planet is most at home (reference your

individual sign in this book, where I note rulership).
• Detriment: When the planet is in the opposite sign to its rulership, it is

said to be weakened.
• Exaltation: This is the sign that provides the best expression of the planet

after its domicile.
• Fall: When the planet is in the opposite sign to its exaltation, it’s said to

be at its weakest.



If a planet falls in none of these, it is said to be peregrine and aspects
become more crucial. It must be noted that experience shows that detriment
and fall don’t always play out negatively, especially when well-aspected.

This is a brief list of planetary dignities and debilities:
The Sun: Rulership in Leo, detriment in Aquarius, exaltation in Aries,

fall in Libra
The Moon: Rulership in Cancer, detriment in Capricorn, exaltation in

Taurus, fall in Scorpio
Mercury: Rulership in Gemini and Virgo, detriment in Sagittarius and

Pisces, exaltation in Virgo, fall in Pisces
Venus: Rulership in Taurus and Libra, detriment in Scorpio and Aries,

exaltation in Pisces, fall in Virgo
Mars: Rulership in Aries and Scorpio, detriment in Libra and Taurus,

exaltation in Capricorn, fall in Cancer
Jupiter: Rulership in Sagittarius and Pisces, detriment in Gemini and

Virgo, exaltation in Cancer, fall in Capricorn
Saturn: Rulership in Capricorn and Aquarius, detriment in Cancer and

Leo, exaltation in Libra, fall in Aries
Uranus: Rulership in Aquarius, detriment in Leo, exaltation in Scorpio,

fall in Taurus
Neptune: Rulership in Pisces, detriment in Virgo, exaltation in Leo (or

Cancer, depending on whose work you read), fall in Aquarius (or
Capricorn)

Pluto: Rulership in Scorpio, detriment in Taurus, exaltation in Aries (or
Pisces), fall in Libra (or Virgo)

After interpreting the building blocks of the horoscope thus far, it’s now
time to begin to integrate the disparate parts of the chart into a cohesive
story of the soul. In the next chapter we’ll look at aspects, which are the
angled lines that connect all the different parts together.






CHAPTER SIX

The Aspects
ASPECTS ARE THE angles the planets and other cosmic bodies make to
each other in the horoscope. Different aspects differ in their angles

between the aspected bodies. Aspects tie the disparate elements of the
horoscope together to create a cohesive story. It’s a highly complex subject
that can only be mastered by practice, and one must learn the basics first.

Aspects refer to the distance, in terms of degrees, between points in the
horoscope. The horoscope consists of 360° and each aspect is a division of
that 360°. For example, the square aspects divide the horoscope by four to
make a 90° angle. Like everything in the horoscope, aspects are both yin
and yang or day and night. Some are more action-oriented and some are
more receptive and connect the other day and night placements.

All aspects create a motivational element and some tension that inspires
a person to act. How motivational an aspect is depends on the aspect itself
and the elements involved. There are no good or bad aspects, as the less
harmonious aspects tend to give more impetus but cause more stress, and
the harmonious aspects tend to require conscious effort to be activated but
are more easeful. We’ll look at this more in future chapters.

Generally speaking, the aspects that divide the chart by an even number
are seen as night aspects, as they have to integrate disparate energies, and
the aspects that divide the chart by odd numbers are day aspects, which
have a more energized way of working together.

The angles that are most important are the Ptolemaic aspects, the
conjunction (two planets together), the opposition (180° separation), the
square (90° separation), the trine (120° separation), and the sextile (30°
separation). I suggest focusing on these the most, especially if you are a
beginner. Use the other aspects to create an even more nuanced reading as
you grow your practice.

THE CONJUNCTION  0°



A conjunction is when two planets or other essential bodies are together or
within a few degrees of each other in the horoscope. This aspect can be
either night or day in tone, which is dependent on the blending of the
planetary bodies, sign, and house.

A conjunction is a powerful blending of the two planets or bodies,
which both intensifies the symbolism of the two planets and confuses the
energies, creating difficulties in seeing the energies of the two separate
bodies. The individual planets seem to lose their individuality and take on
some of the characteristics of the other, with the outer planet usually having
more of an impact on the inner planet. The closer the conjunction, the
stronger the merging of the symbolism and the greater the difficulty in
separating out and feeling the individual strengths of each planet. It is
generally considered a harmonious aspect but is one that requires a more
complex understanding of how the symbolism of the planets, sign, and
houses work together.

For example, Neptune conjuncting Venus means that the individual may
have difficulty seeing those they are in relationships with clearly and will
have an ethereal quality to others. They will also often have unrealistic
idealism they cannot see within themselves.

THE OPPOSITION  180 °

The opposition is when two planets or other essential bodies are visually
opposing each other in the horoscope and are approximately 180° apart. In
other words, the 360° of the zodiac is divided by two to create the 180°
aspect. Traditionally said to be a disharmonious aspect, the key to working
with an opposition in the chart is integration of the opposing energies. This
is a night aspect and is an exhalation of breath. To understand how they can
work together, it’s necessary to blend the symbolism of the planets, signs,
and houses.

This is an aspect that has more perspective than the conjunction. The
opposing planets can see each other and, therefore, the subject finds it easier
to understand how to integrate the two. The two planets communicate and
negotiate with each other, which can feel like an inner negotiation that is
true of any two differing subjects meeting face to face.

For example, the Moon opposing Jupiter will, at a simple level, give the
subject very big highs and lows emotionally, since Jupiter expands and the



Moon symbolizes emotions. The sign and house placements will give a
deeper understanding.

THE TRINE 120° 

The trine is an aspect in which the planets are approximately 120° apart,
which means that the 360° of the zodiac is divided by three. These aspects
are almost always in the same element, unless they are dissociated. This is
the most flowing and harmonious aspect. The planets work effortlessly
together, complementing and enriching. This is a day aspect or inhalation of
breath.

The trine shows us where our natural strengths are. The two planets are
in signs of the same element and work in a symbiotic relationship.
However, since the aspects flow so easily, there is little impetus to
consciously embody those strengths. This aspect is an instinctive one but
one that can bring a feeling of being truly in alignment when activated.

For example, Venus in Libra trine Neptune in Aquarius means a person
is likely to be highly intuitive and creative, but since it comes so naturally,
they may not actually utilize that strength in their daily life. Because trines
are usually in the same element (in this case air), it often means the subject
is not able to bring the impetus of another element to maximize the aspect.
When the person becomes aware of this, however, and begins to integrate
these strengths into their life, they can fulfill their soul’s potential with
greater ease.

THE SQUARE 90° 

The most challenging and most energizing aspect is the square, which
means that the two planets or other essential bodies are separated by
approximately 90°, and the 360° of the zodiac is divided by four. This is a
night or exhale aspect.

In a square aspect, the planets are in the greatest tension to each other.
The angle of the square suggests that the planets can’t see eye to eye and
yet are affected by each other. This is said to be a disharmonious aspect, yet
it also gives the most impetus to break through the evolutionary blocks and
lessons that the aspect requires. The planets are almost vying for



preeminence, and yet if the subject can consciously integrate the conflicting
energies, this aspect has great power.

For example, Venus square Saturn can indicate blocks in intimacy in
relationships and/or frugality with money. With conscious awareness and
maturity, the tension can be relaxed and transmuted into stability in a
relationship and/or the ability to build great financial success.

THE SEXTILE 60° 

The sextile connects two planets that are approximately 60° apart, and the
360° of the zodiac is divided by six. The sextile is an aspect of opportunity
that is also considered to be harmonious. The sextile also requires conscious
effort to assimilate and embody its potential power, but when activated it
opens pathways to growth that can bring great potential. This is sometimes
described as a weaker trine, but that description is overly simplistic; with all
aspects, the planets, signs, and houses involved change the power of the
aspect considerably. This is generally a day or inhale aspect, but
consideration of the elements involved must be used.

The sextile is generally an aspect that brings mutual stimulation to both
placements, because it usually connects planets in two different elements to
create extra stimulus and results.

For example, Mars in Gemini might be sextile to Saturn in Leo and the
combination of both Mars (will) and Saturn (determination) in air (Gemini
symbolizing communication) and fire (Leo symbolizing leadership) would
make for a very strong leader who communicates with authority.

ORBS
An orb is the number of degrees apart from exact that is allowed for each
aspect. Orbs are a contentious issue within astrological traditions, and every
astrologer has their own view on them. Generally speaking, the Sun and
Moon are given a wider orb, as are the Ptolemaic aspects, with the
conjunction and opposition being given the widest orbs.

Please take these suggested orbs as a guide. With practice, you will
come to find what works for you and understand whether a combination
needs to be given a wider orb.
The Conjunction: 10° orb for the luminaries and 8° for other planets



The Opposition: 9° orb for luminaries and 7° for other planets
The Trine and Square: 8° orb for luminaries and 6° for other planets
The Sextile: 4° orb for luminaries and 3° for other planets
The Quincunx, Quintile, Semisquare and Sesquisquare: 3° orb for
luminaries and 2° for other planets
The Semisextile: 2° orb for luminaries and 1° for other planets

THE QUINCUNX OR INCONJUNCT 150° 

This is a challenging aspect that involves planets in both different elements
and different modalities, so it’s difficult to find any common ground
between the aspected planets. It’s a breakaway aspect that invites
adjustment to understand that the two aspected planets really cannot be
integrated in the way an opposition or square can. The two are conflicting
because the differences are very complex, and it’s necessary to encourage
deep awareness and acceptance of an internal drive to compartmentalize the
two areas of life so that the subject understands why this need exists.

The discordant nature of this aspect is reflected by the fact that 150° is
not a whole-number division of the 360° of the zodiac.

For example, a person with Venus in Leo quincunx or inconjunct Saturn
in Capricorn has a love nature that is very playful and joyful and often a
desire to be around children, aspecting a need to work hard and build great
security. This person will feel torn between the need to play and the need to
work and find it difficult to resolve the two, always feeling like they
“should” be doing the other, which leads to feelings of guilt.

Harmonics
Harmonics are a different way to look at aspects and were developed by
John Addey in his 1976 book, Harmonics in Astrology. Harmonic
horoscopes are based on resonance and overtones that are present in the
chart.



To put it briefly, the whole 360° of the zodiac is the basic tone and
represents the number one, and the harmonics charts seek to unite
planets that work together in a chart. This is a complex calculation that,
thankfully, most good astrology software will calculate for you. There
are no signs and houses in a harmonics chart, only aspects, and each
harmonics chart rearranges aspects that are connected by the number of
that harmonic chart, making the aspect connections easier to see.

For example, and put very simply, the fourth harmonic shows how
we deal with stress and struggle and unites aspects that divide the
zodiac by four, the fifth harmonic indicates talent and unites quintiles
and biquintiles, and the seventh harmonic represents inspiration and
illusion. Since there can be as many harmonics as there are numbers, I
suggest studying this after you gain some mastery of the basics of chart
interpretation.

THE QUINTILE 72° 

The quintile divides the 360° of the zodiac by five to create a 72° aspect
between two planets in the chart and, as such, is a day aspect or an inhale.
In a horoscope, a quintile usually denotes creative talent, especially
regarding patterns and structures. Those with a quintile or quintiles in their
chart are usually more fulfilled in life when they create or find patterns of
behavior that make the most of the two aspected planets, because these
planets is where the subject is powerfully driven.

A quintile between Mercury and Jupiter, for example, will mean that the
person is driven to learn as much as they can, since Mercury is the mind and
information and Jupiter is expansion. This person may constantly be
reading and/or taking classes.

The Sun can never be quintile to Mercury or Venus, as the three travel
too closely together and are never 72° apart.

THE SEMISQUARE  45°

The semisquare divides the 360° of the zodiac by eight. It is half a square
and similar to a square in that it represents a block. Awareness of the block



is often activated by external events that invite the subject to work to
integrate the two energies. It’s often an area of inflexibility and the aspect is
actually inviting you to become more flexible and to learn ways to move
past blocks. This is a night or exhale aspect.

A semisquare between Mars and Saturn, for example, is one that often
brings a tendency to give up when things feel too hard, when you are
actually being asked to face your responsibilities and commitments with
patience and perseverance in order to move through the block. When that
lesson is learned, the person with this aspect can move mountains.

THE SESQUISQUARE  135°

This is another minor aspect, the discordant energy of which is reflected by
the fact that it doesn’t divide the 360° of the zodiac into a whole number. It
is also known as the sesquiquadrate. This aspect is, however, a semisquare
times three (3 × 45°), or a combination of a square and a semisquare, and
this gives an indication of what it symbolizes. I would describe this as a
holding of breath, neither inhale nor exhale.

This is another aspect that causes tension and challenge and one that is
said to need control, as the two aspected planets often lead to poor choices
in life that amplify the lowest symbolism of the two aspected planets.

THE SEMISEXTILE 30° 

The semisextile is an aspect that divides the 360° of the zodiac by 12, which
means the aspected planets are in adjacent signs. The suggested orb of 2°
for luminaries and 1° for other planets means that this would very rarely be
a dissociate or out-of-sign aspect, though it does occur. This aspect has
mixed interpretations, with one school positing that since the signs are
adjacent and, therefore, of different modalities and elements, it can be a
challenge for the planets to work together. However, there are others who
believe that the zodiac is ordered the way it is purposefully and that the
energy of the signs is of personal growth and evolution, with each sign
building off the preceding one. Because of that, this aspect is a helpful one
for the soul’s evolutionary growth and is a day or inhale aspect.



Both interpretations can be true depending on the level of awareness
and consciousness of the subject. A person who is already on the path of
personal growth is more likely to be able to integrate the two planets to
create opportunities out of any difficulties the two energies bring.

MOST ASPECTED PLANET
The planet that is aspected the most by other planets and essential bodies is
important to look at because that planet becomes one of the focal points in
the chart, since it’s connected to so much else in the chart. This means that
any interpretation of the chart must include a close examination of this
planet. Much of the client’s life will be associated with this focal planet.

The most aspected planet is challenged because the energy of that planet
must integrate so many other aspects, but this also makes the planet a
powerful focal point for the same reason. The nature of that challenge is
symbolized by a synthesis of all the aspects, and it can get very complex.

For example, if Mercury, the planet of learning, is the most aspected
planet, great wisdom can be gained by integrating all the wisdom from the
planets aspected, but it can also lead to hyperanalysis because there is so
much information to integrate. Much of this person’s life will be connected
to the gathering of information, learning, and communication.

Dissociate Aspects
Dissociate aspects are also known as “out-of-sign” aspects and can be
less easy to spot.

Most aspects are from and to signs of a certain modality or element.
For example, a square from a planet in mutable sign Sagittarius will
usually involve another planet in Virgo or Pisces, also mutable signs.

However, because of orbs, an aspect can occur in what appears to
be the “wrong” sign, and this happens when the aspected planets are in
the very last degrees and the very early degrees of signs.

For example, if the Moon is at 28° Sagittarius and Mars is at 1°
Aries, they would still be in a square aspect, as they are separated by
93°. An exact square would be 28° Sagittarius to 28° Pisces, and the
extra 3° takes the aspect into Aries, but the aspect is still “in orb.”



UNASPECTED PLANETS
Unaspected planets are very important. They should always be noted and
are usually considered to be those that make no Ptolemaic aspects
(conjunction, sextile, square, trine, or opposition) with any other planet.

Unaspected planets represents parts of the self that stand alone and can
be a challenge to integrate in life. They can, however, represent an area of
great strength or an area of vulnerability and weakness, depending on how
the subject responds to the unaspected planet and its other strengths, such as
dignity or debilitation. Since unaspected planets can represent both gifts and
challenges, both difficult for the person to embody, an understanding of the
planet by sign and house can help the person both face those challenges and
embody the gifts that planet offers.

An unaspected planet can mean a person feels out of step with and
misunderstood by the rest of the world, especially if the unaspected planet
is a personal one, like the Sun, the Moon, Mercury, Venus, or Mars.

We have now looked at most of the building blocks of an astrological
chart, including the elements, modalities, planets, decans, and aspects, and
in the next chapter we’ll look at the houses that indicate the areas of life in
the chart.









CHAPTER SEVEN

The Houses
THE HOROSCOPE, OR astrological chart, is made up of many elements
that must be integrated to create a cohesive blueprint of your soul

and your soul’s evolutionary potential in this lifetime. We’ve looked at the
planets and other essential bodies, which are the “what” in your blueprint.
We’ve also looked at the signs through the lens of the core self, the Sun,
which symbolizes “how” the planets behave in your blueprint.

Now we come to the houses, of which there are 12, running
counterclockwise in the horoscope. The horoscope is a combination of the
zodiac wheel, which represents the Sun’s yearly rotation along the ecliptic
from our perspective, and the wheel of houses, which is based on the
Earth’s 24-hour axial rotation. Accurate birth details, date, time, and place
are necessary to create a horoscope, which joins the two wheels together.

The 12 houses symbolize areas of life or fields of experience. This is
where the “what” (planets and other essential bodies) and “how” (the signs)
work in you and your life. The houses follow a path of personal
development from birth (the first house) to death (the 12th house). The
houses are also like a pulse or breath of the cosmos, like everything else in
the horoscope. For example, the first house, ruled by Aries and Mars, is a
day house or inhale, the second is a night house or exhale, and so on.

Adding houses into the interpretation of the horoscope is one of the
ways we begin to understand the uniqueness of each cosmic blueprint. A
person with the Sun in Sagittarius in the second house will have a different
life experience than a person with the Sun in Sagittarius in the 10th house,
for example. The former will have more of a core emphasis on personal
values and self-worth and the latter will have more of a focus on career and
their public life.

THE FIRST HOUSE: THE HOUSE OF SELF
The first house represents birth and early life. It’s the first inhalation of life
and a day, action-oriented, angular house. The cusp of the first house



represents the sign on the eastern horizon at the moment and place of birth
in the horoscope as seen from the perspective of that time and place. The
first-house cusp is also known as the rising sign, or ascendant, and
represents the dawn of a new life itself as the subject takes their first breath
when they are born. The first house is ruled by Mars and Aries in the natural
horoscope.

This is the house of the self, your life force, and the sign on the cusp or
beginning of the house correlates with the ascendant and your persona. The
ascendant and first house are your personal receptionist and represent the
self or “I am” presence, and it's where you first see yourself before you
begin to mature and evolve.

Planets contained within this house will be colored by the sign in the
first house and will be directly projected to those you meet: This is how
others see you at first. Your early childhood experiences and natural
abilities are also represented in the first house, as are your actual birth
experience and your spontaneous reactions to outer stimuli.

THE SECOND HOUSE: THE HOUSE OF RESOURCES
The second house is where we exhale and become aware of the physical
world, the body, nature, possessions, and money. It’s where we establish our
connection to the material world. The second house is the realm of matter
that we can touch, see, hear, smell, and taste and is a night energy, as we are
more receptive to the senses at night. This house is ruled by Venus and
Taurus.

This is the realm of all resources, including your inner resources, self-
esteem, self-worth, core values, and relationship to the body and the natural
world. This is also the realm of what you value, your relationship to money
and possessions in the physical realm.

The second house is self-sufficiency and sensuality, which is modified
by the planets in and sign on the cusp of the house. Jupiter in the second
house, for example, often represents a person with high self-worth and a
great ability to make money and they are also likely to love exploring
nature.

THE THIRD HOUSE: THE HOUSE OF COMMUNICATION



The third house is where we move into our conscious mind and begin to
learn about the world around us. This is a day, inhale, and cadent house,
because in this house we hone our perception and observation skills and
gather information. We find our voice in this house, learn to write, and
develop our communication styles. This house also represents our early
education, learning style, and what kind of school student you are or were,
as well as your siblings and neighbors. The third house is where we develop
awareness of other points of view and the greater world around us.

This is also the realm of transportation and short journeys, emails,
gossip, phone calls, and text messaging, and it is ruled by Mercury and
Gemini.

Saturn in the third house, for example, could indicate a diligent student
but a person of few words.

THE FOURTH HOUSE: THE HOUSE OF THE HOME
In the fourth house, we exhale again and enter the realm of the night and an
angular house as we go within to both our home, as in where we live, and
our inner home, the most private part of our inner life. This area of life
represents the foundations of our security, both emotionally and materially.
Your upbringing is reflected in this house, along with one or both of your
parents and ancestral influences and patterns. In developmental terms, it’s
where we become aware of our inner emotional landscape and how we
respond emotionally to the world around us.

This house is associated with the Moon and the sign of Cancer. One area
of life that is often not mentioned is self-care and self-love. How you were
nurtured and how you learn to nurture yourself and fulfill your emotional
needs are reflected here, including the type of home you create or prefer.

Someone with Pluto in the fourth house, for example, may have had a
difficult childhood with power struggles of some kind within the home and
may be driven to transform that in their own life, breaking ancestral
patterns.

House Systems



There are at least 50 different house systems, which are a means of
dividing the horoscope. Some of the more commonly used systems are
those of Porphyry, Placidus, Koch, and Whole Signs. Placidus is the
default house system for much of the chart-creation software and
became the most popular because there were more tables of houses
available when horoscopes were hand drawn.

Astrologers moving toward the Hellenistic revival tend to use
Whole Signs, and many evolutionary astrologers use Porphyry—with
some having moved to Koch, which is a newer system.

There are many ways to divide space and there’s general agreement
in many house systems that the horizon, known as the ascendant, starts
the first house, the midheaven (zenith) starts the 10th house, and the
houses are a division between the angles. My preferred system is
Porphyry, which divides the space between the angles by three, the
trinity. I do not, however, recommend a system, and I would encourage
you to research for yourself to learn over time what you prefer.

THE FIFTH HOUSE: THE HOUSE OF SELF-EXPRESSION
The fifth house is a fire house, is associated with the Sun and Leo, and is an
inhalation of breath, a day energy, and a succedent house. This is where we
develop our creative self-expression and joy in life.

I always think of the fifth house in the soul’s development as the
teenager, the adolescent, and the place where we begin to shine our light in
the world, where we develop our self-consciousness. This is the realm of
children, fun, and joie de vivre (French for “joy of life”). It’s where we take
up hobbies and sports, where we learn to play, and it’s the first of the
relationship houses because it’s where we find love affairs. Your performing
ability and your life stage are reflected in the fifth house.

An emphasis in this house would normally indicate someone drawn to
the creative arts and someone who approaches the world in a joyful way.

THE SIXTH HOUSE: THE HOUSE OF SERVICE AND HEALTH
The sixth house is associated with Virgo, an earth sign, and is ruled by
Mercury. This is a night energy and is an exhale and a cadent house. The
sixth house is where we find the need to be useful in the world, to be of



service in our daily routines and work. Your day-to-day work experience,
nature of work, and style of daily living are represented by this house.
Health is also associated with the sixth house, as are your pets.

In developmental terms, the sixth house is where we begin to figure out
how we can make a contribution to the world and to others. It’s where we
begin to change from the inner landscape of personal development and
grow into the outer world of adulthood.

The night or exhale energy of the sixth house is a response to the world
around us and a desire to create some order in the world. As such, cleansing
and hygiene are connected, and your response to all outer stimuli is
reflected here.

THE SEVENTH HOUSE: THE HOUSE OF RELATIONSHIP AND
MARRIAGE
In the seventh house, our soul takes a big inhale and really enters the realm
of the outer or adult world. This house is ruled by Libra and Venus, in her
more outward, day incarnation, and is a day and an angular house. This
house correlates with the descendant, the point opposite the ascendant,
which reflects what you are attracted to and what you attract in others.

The seventh house is associated with all significant interpersonal
relationships, including the main partner or partners in life. This house also
includes adult children, significant business or work relationships, and
significant friendships. The nature of and the patterns in your relationships
are reflected in this house. Another area associated with this house is what
Jung called the “disowned self,” which is a part of the self that we don’t like
and that we see in others. This can often be seen as something in others that
triggers a strong emotional reaction of dislike.

As the second of the relationship houses, the seventh house represents
where we join in partnership by either living with or marrying a person. The
eighth house builds on this in long-term relationships.

THE EIGHTH HOUSE: THE HOUSE OF INTIMACY AND DEATH
The eighth house is another exhale and a night house, where we are plunged
into all things associated with the dark, and is associated with Pluto and
Scorpio. This house is a succedent house and is the realm of deeply bonded
relationships, the long-term partnership that is connected emotionally,



psychologically, and sexually. It’s the energy of merging of life, resources,
and spiritual bodies. This is the third relationship house and where the true
intimacy of relationship exists in long-term relationships.

This is also the realm of both physical and psychological death and
psychological transformation and regeneration. Inheritances and other, often
taboo, subjects are associated with this area of the horoscope, such as the
realms of magic and the occult. This is the realm of deep therapy or soul
exploration and your relationship to all shared power and karmic material.
Power and powerlessness are the realm of the eighth house, and
manipulative and/or abusive power dynamics can show up in this house.
This includes your own shadow psychological realms, the parts of you that
you may prefer not to look at too closely—though this is also the realm of
your inner gold, or buried treasure, so fearless exploration of your eighth
house can bring great rewards.

THE NINTH HOUSE: THE HOUSE OF THE HIGHER SELF
The ninth house is another inhale and a day energy, which takes us out into
the realms of expansion and exploration of the world and higher learning.
This is a cadent house and is ruled by Jupiter and Sagittarius. The ninth
house is the area associated with all forms of higher study (formal and
informal), philosophy, and personal beliefs. How you experience whatever
the divine is for you will be reflected here and, therefore, religion is also
associated with this house. This house can be the place of dogma, but
generally it is about expanding the mind and consciousness.

Developmentally, the ninth house takes us on a vision quest to seek the
meaning of life. In the ninth house we seek truth, freedom, wisdom, and
knowledge of natural law, as well as how the world and nature work. The
energy of exploration also means that travel is represented in this house,
including long journeys of the mind.

THE 10TH HOUSE: THE PUBLIC SELF
The 10th house is the most public part of your chart and yet is an exhale and
earth, night energy, where we reflect on how we are seen in the world. This
is an angular house and is ruled by Saturn and Capricorn. The 10th house is
the nature of our contribution or mission in life, often said to be our career,
and hopefully these will be in alignment. Since this is where you are most



visible in the world, this house is also associated with your public
reputation or status. This is the realm of the wise elder and where we create
man-made laws—as opposed to the natural laws explored in the ninth
house. It’s a place of gravitas, where we build financial and physical
security. Duty and responsibility for others are also represented here, as is
integrity.

Like the fourth house, this house is also associated with one of the
parents—usually the parent who is more out in the world than the other, or
who represented authority and your relationship to authority and established
society, such as the institutions that govern our world.

Quadrants
The horoscope is divided into four quadrants as well as different
hemispheres, and each quadrant has three houses, which are described
as angular, succedent, and cadent.

The angular houses are those with an angle (ascendant, Medium
Coeli, descendant, or Imum Coeli) on the cusp. The angular houses are
ruled by the four cardinal signs—Aries, Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn—
and represent action and the beginning of different stages of life
experience. The first is the start of self-development, the fourth is the
development of consciousness, the seventh is the development of
relationships, and the 10th is the development of your public and group
consciousness.

The succedent houses are ruled by the four fixed signs—Taurus,
Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius. In these houses, we consolidate that which
was begun in the angular houses.

The cadent houses are ruled by the four mutable signs—Gemini,
Virgo, Sagittarius, and Pisces. In these houses, we begin to think of the
change to come as we move from one phase of development into the
next.

THE 11TH HOUSE: THE HOUSE OF COMMUNITY



The 11th house is an inhale of breath, a day, succedent house that takes us
out into the community in all its forms and is associated with Uranus and
Aquarius. This is the realm of groups of friends, organizations, and
associations. The 11th house is also associated with social causes, social
consciousness, and politics. A strong emphasis here means the person is
likely to be a humanitarian and have an interest in ecology.

Another association for this house is the Internet, due to the community
aspect of the house, particularly social media. Latent or undiscovered
abilities can also be found here, and the house is associated with the future,
big goals, new ideas, and discoveries.

Developmentally, we move from creating solid ambition, rules, and
foundations in the world in the 10th house and now move into the realm of
making social connections. In this house, we learn to detach from the rules
imposed by the authority of the 10th house, to go our own way, and to
explore our own realm of genius to create our future.

THE 12TH HOUSE: THE HOUSE OF THE UNCONSCIOUS
In the 12th house, a cadent house, we exhale for the last time on this
journey as we enter the night energy of the unconscious. This is the realm
of all things mysterious and mystical and is associated with Neptune and
Pisces.

This house is the time before birth and the time before death, the
amniotic fluid before the first inhale in the first house, the prenatal
experience, and the time of fading before the very last exhale. All forms of
altered states are represented here, including chemically induced states and
meditative states. Creative and intuitive, this house connects us to
transpersonal knowledge and understanding. This house is a liminal space,
the space between worlds, and is associated with all transitional spaces and
activities such as trance, hypnotism, and mysteries.

Seclusion and secluded places are also associated with this house, such
as prisons, monasteries, retreat centers, and hospitals. This is a place of
dreaming, strong empathy, and the mysterious unknown.

Now that you have the building blocks of an astrology chart, it’s time to
review and begin to integrate a cohesive story of the self. In the next
chapter, we’ll look at how each element is involved in the structuring of the
birth chart.









UNDERSTANDING YOUR
BIRTH CHART
IN PART 2, we are taking the building blocks we covered in part 1 and
moving into considering the birth chart as a whole. This includes structuring
and interpreting your birth chart and understanding other celestial bodies.






CHAPTER EIGHT

Structuring Your Birth Chart
IN THIS CHAPTER, I will briefly review the astrological elements of
signs, houses, and planets that were discussed in part 1 and go into

more detail about how each element is involved in the structuring of the
birth chart. Please remember that we are using the concepts of day and night
and inhale and exhale to indicate the living, pulsing nature of the cosmos as
it works within you.

THE SIGNS
In an astrological horoscope, the outer rim of the chart represents the
zodiac, with the belt representing the 12 astrological signs and, like any
geometric circle, containing 360°. The medicine wheel or “circle of
animals” is divided into 12 equal parts of 30° that are roughly based on, but
not equivalent to, the constellations. Most of the planets and other essential
bodies move through the signs of the zodiac along the plane of the ecliptic,
known as the orbit, in a narrow band. Pluto and some of the newly
discovered dwarf planets, however, do not follow the same orbital plane,
giving them an orbit that is eccentric compared to the more traditional
planets.

The zodiac signs always follow the same order, from Aries to Pisces,
going counterclockwise around the outer rim of the horoscope. The signs
represent 12 psychological impulses and needs, and everyone has all 12
signs contained within their psychological blueprint. In my illustration
below, the sign on the ascendant, 9:00 on the sample chart, is Aries, but the
sign on the ascendant in an individual chart will vary dependent upon time
and place of birth. You will see this in the two sample charts at the end of
this chapter.
HOUSES
See below for descriptions of each of the 12 sectors that correspond to the numbers in the
diagram.



HOUSES
Natal charts are divided into 12 sectors, or pieces of the pie, also moving
counterclockwise. The houses are fixed, holding the same position in every
chart, and the signs revolve around them, just as the signs and planets
revolve around the ecliptic from our perspective.

Based on the time and place of birth, each house will have a different
sign on its cusp, or beginning. Depending on the house system used, some
houses may have the same sign on the cusp of two houses. Please see the
section on house systems in chapter 7.

PLANETS
Contained within each of the signs and houses are the symbols for the
planets and other essential bodies. Each planet represents a part of the
psyche that is contained within the whole. The sign it is in represents how
that planet is activated, and the house represents the area of life in which the
planet is active.

The Twelve Sectors of the Houses
1
House of the Self Inhale, Day
Personality
What You Project



Life Force
Early Experiences and Abilities

2
House of Resources
Exhale, Night
Self Confidence, Values
Relationship to Body, Physical World
How You Make Money

3
House of Communication
Inhale, Day
Perception and Observation
The Voice
Writing and Communication Style
Early Education
Siblings, Neighbors
Transportation and Short Journeys

4
House of the Home
Exhale, Night Inner, Private Life
Emotional and Material Security and Foundation
Fulfillment of Emotional Needs, Self Care
Type of Home

5
House of Self-Expression
Inhale, Day
Creative Expression
Joy, Pleasure, Play, Hobbies
Love Affairs, Romance
Children

6
House of Service and Health
Exhale, Night
Usefulness, Service
Daily Routines and Work
Nature of Daily Work
Health Matters, Cleansing, Daily Diet
Pets

7
House of Relationship and Marriage
Inhale, Day
What You Are Attracted to and What You Attract
Significant Relationships



Disowned Self

8
House of Intimacy
Exhale, Night
Deeply Bonded Relationships
Deep Psychological Issues
Transformation and Death
Inheritances and Shared Financial Resources

9
House of the Higher Self
Inhale, Day
Expansion and Exploration
Higher Studies and Philosophy
Personal Beliefs
Experience of the Divine
Long Journeys and Other Cultures

10
House of the Public Self
Exhale, Night Contribution or Mission in Life Career
Public Visibility and Reputation
One of the Parents

11
House of Community
Inhale, Day
Groups and Organizations
Friends
Social Causes, Consciousness
Humanitarianism
Politics, Including Gender Politics
Internet Connections

12
House of the Unconscious
Mystery, Mystical, Meditation
Altered States, Chemical or Meditative
Transpersonal Knowledge
Seclusion, Retreats, Monasteries, Prison
Dreaming, Empathy

SAMPLE CHARTS
Let’s look at some sample natal charts: Jodie Foster and Anderson Cooper.

Jodie Foster



Jodie Foster was born on November 19, 1962, at 8:14 a.m. in Los Angeles,
California. The famous actress has the Sun in Scorpio, a Scorpio stellium,
the Moon in Virgo, and Sagittarius rising.

I suggest taking an overall view of the chart before delving into the
details. This chart is predominant in water elements, with the Sun, Mercury,
Venus, Jupiter, and Neptune all in water signs. Her ascendant is in
Sagittarius, a fire sign, with Mars in Leo, another fire sign, in aspect, and
her Moon, Uranus, and Pluto are in Virgo, an earth sign. This suggests that
Foster is predominantly a spiritual, imaginative, and creative soul. Her
primary modality is fixed, suggesting she enjoys stability, and her secondary
modality is mutable, so she is able to move with changes when needed.

JODIE FOSTER
Natal Nov 19, 1962, Mon 8:14 AM PST +8:00 Los Angeles, California Tropical Porphyry

Sagittarius-rising individuals are often drawn to travel and higher
learning. Foster has done both, studying in France at a young age, speaking
French fluently, and graduating magna cum laude from Yale. The ruling
planet of Sagittarius is Jupiter. Foster’s Jupiter is in Pisces in the third
house, suggesting a very expansive and almost sponge-like ability to learn
and take in information. Jupiter opposes the Moon-Uranus-Pluto
conjunction in the ninth house (naturally ruled by Sagittarius), which
reflects her draw to higher studies, but also that she says she ritualizes all
religions in her home so that her family is educated in all belief systems
(ninth house). Jupiter in the third house suggests her early academic
prowess, and Foster is said to have been able to read at the age of three.



The Sun in a Scorpio stellium that spans the 11th and 12th houses with
the luminary in the 12th house shows her intensely private personal nature,
as both Scorpio and the 12th house are representative of privacy.

Foster’s Mars, traditional ruler of Scorpio, in Leo is in the eighth house,
the natural house of Scorpio, which adds to that drive for privacy—though a
Leo Mars also has the ability to perform. The Libra midheaven also reflects
her creative nature, as does her Venus-Neptune conjunction in Scorpio. Her
water placements, 8th-and 12th-house placements, and her Jupiter in Pisces
suggest a deeply intuitive and possibly psychic nature. They also show a
deep desire to explore the psychological motivations of others, and Foster
has displayed this through the roles she has chosen and the projects she has
directed.

Her Moon-Uranus-Pluto conjunction in Virgo in the ninth house also
shows her inclination to explore emotionally deep and psychologically
traumatic (Uranus-Pluto conjunction) areas of life. Taxi Driver and The
Silence of the Lambs come to mind in her film roles, and her Yale thesis
topic was Toni Morrison, whose writings explore slavery and racism in
African American history.

Foster’s chart shows a highly intelligent, exploratory nature with a deep
sensitivity, intuitive nature, and emotional power that she brings to her
public film work and keeps private otherwise.

A New View of the Planets
Planets are usually named after gods and goddesses from ancient times
and mythologies, but remember that the gods represent
anthropomorphized parts of the human experience and are archetypal in
nature. Similar myths and themes appear in diverse cultures, with
different names given to those archetypal representations.

It was humankind who portrayed the gods as masculine or
feminine, because of the limits of our understanding, and this has
carried through into the language of astrology.

I am not suggesting that we rename the planets, but that we
recognize the human lack of nuance imposed on the astrological
interpretation of the planets. For example, Mars has been described as



masculine for hundreds of years, yet traditionally the planet ruled both
Aries and Scorpio, seen as masculine and feminine signs respectively.
The planets are as nuanced as human beings. All living beings,
including planetary bodies, have both day and night within them—the
whole universe is actually nonbinary in nature.

Anderson Cooper
Anderson Cooper was born on June 3, 1967, at 3:46 p.m. in New York,
New York. Cooper’s primary element is air, with a Gemini Sun, Libra
rising, and Mars in Libra conjuncting the ascendant.

Water is a close second with midheaven, ruling planet Venus, and
Neptune all in water signs. The Moon, Jupiter, and Saturn in fire signs are a
close third. Cooper’s only earth placement is a Uranus-Pluto conjunction in
Virgo. Cooper has a good balance of cardinal, fixed, and mutable energy.
The majority of Cooper’s planets are in the southern hemisphere, or top
half, of the chart, suggesting he’s outgoing and sociable. First impressions
are that he is a well-balanced individual.

With a Gemini Sun, Libra rising with Mars conjunct in Libra, and the
ruling planet, Venus, at the top of his chart conjunct the midheaven, it’s
unsurprising that Cooper has chosen a public role in his career—air signs
are connected to the mind, media, and communication. With Mars on his
ascendant and his Moon and Saturn in Mars-ruled Aries, and both close to
his descendant, he’s driven to get ahead and to succeed. His big break in
media was self-made (Aries) by faking a press pass to enter Myanmar and
selling his own news segments to Channel One, a small news agency.

His strong water element, with Cancer midheaven, the ruling planet
Venus in Cancer and angular (conjunct the midheaven), and Neptune in
Scorpio, suggests a deeply caring nature, which has motivated his
investigative work—he often shows his emotional side on air. He has been
quoted as saying, “Yeah, I would prefer not to be emotional and I would
prefer not to get upset, but it’s hard not to when you’re surrounded by brave
people who are suffering and in need.”

His 12th-house Uranus-Pluto conjunction, however, suggests a deep
connection to trauma and indicates trauma in his own life. His brother took
his own life in 1988, and Cooper has admitted to becoming desensitized to
the horrors of war after reporting on assignment for several years. His



eighth-house Sun also suggests that investigative pull toward the
underbelly. Thankfully, his strong air and fire placements help balance this
out, so he knows when to move to the lighter side of life to bring himself
out of the darker places. His eighth-house Sun also suggests that he’s
private about his personal life.

Cooper’s Libra rising makes him very attractive and appealing in
appearance and manner, and his Leo Jupiter in the 10th house gives him star
appeal. His Leo Jupiter also is suggestive of his place in American
“royalty” as a Vanderbilt heir.

Now that we’ve looked at the structure of the chart and begun to
develop analysis tools through examples, it’s time to delve even deeper into
chart interpretation and integrate other elements into the chart. In the next
chapter, we’ll add in other elements, such as some of the asteroids and
angles.

ANDERSON COOPER
Natal Jun 3, 1967, Sat 3:46 PM EDT +4:00 New York, New York Tropical Porphyry






CHAPTER NINE

Interpreting Your Birth Chart
IN THIS CHAPTER, we’ll build on all that you have learned so far and
introduce some more elements that can add depth to horoscope

interpretation. Real insights can be gained from the placement of the Sun,
Moon, and ascendant alone, but the insights gained from adding other
planets and elements in the chart are invaluable as your knowledge deepens.

In the remaining chapters I’ll introduce a few more elements and guide
you through a working understanding of how to read your own chart.
However, I would like to stress that there is nothing like practice over time
to gain deeper insights.

Casting a chart has been made simpler with the advent of astrological
computer programs. Before this, you could calculate a chart using a Table
of Houses and an ephemeris, but nowadays there are a multitude of options
for casting a chart using a computer. Some of the best professional options
are Solar Fire, Matrix, and Astro Gold, but you can calculate a chart for free
using Astro.com, one of the best and most comprehensive free options
available. Astro Gold has an app, and two other good apps are Time Nomad
and TimePassages.

YOUR SUN , MOON , AND ASCENDANT 

The Sun, Moon, and ascendant, or rising sign, are the three primary
indicators of personality. These should always be considered first as you
begin your exploration of a chart. The Sun is your core, the Moon is your
soul, and the ascendant is your persona. To accurately calculate the position
of all three (and the other elements of the chart), an accurate date, time, and
place of birth are necessary. This applies to the Sun particularly if you are
born around the 21st of the month, because the Sun moves into the next
sign at different days and times every year. Aspects and house cusps are
also more accurate with the correct time of birth.



The Sun 

As mentioned previously, the Sun is the core essence of who you are. It is
your ego, your vital self, the central organizing principle of the solar system
and you. Ruled by the heart, the Sun could be said to be the conductor of
your orchestra. Life purpose and consciousness is derived from the sign the
Sun is in and modified by the house placement and aspects from the Sun to
other planets. Those who are living the energy that their Sun placement
represents are purposeful and have direction. As a day energy and an inhale
of breath, it’s who we are when we are taking action in the world, even if
the sign you are in is a night or exhale energy. For example, a Cancer Sun
will be living a purposeful life when they are nurturing and caring for
others. The Sun is the present and the here and now.

The Moon 

The Moon represents your soul or innermost core of your being. This is a
night or exhale energy, where feelings and needs are primary. The Moon is
a subconscious energy that is receptive to all that is around it. It’s the
response to stress and represents what is needed for comfort and nurture and
your basic habits and reactions.

The Moon energy in the chart is instinctive, where you have hunches.
How you act on your intuition and hunches consciously is through the Sun.
The Moon energy is creative, sentimental, and adaptable and can be
protective or moody and irrational, but how that energy expresses itself is
dependent on the sign and house placement of the Moon. Again, an accurate
time of birth is important to know the exact position of the Moon, especially
because the Moon is the fastest moving energy in the chart.

The phase of the Moon you were born under also has some influence. A
phase is an angular relationship or aspect between the Sun and Moon in the
chart. In brief, if you were born with the Sun and Moon in conjunction, you
were born under a new-moon phase (day, inhale, and 0–45°), which is
suggestive of a self-starter who wants to shine their light on the world. The
waxing-crescent phase (night, exhale, 45–90°) is one who is learning
independence and letting go of old patterns. The first-quarter phase (day,
inhale, 90–135°) is someone who likes to take action and thrives on change.



The waxing-gibbous phase (night, exhale, 135–180°) is someone who has a
thirst to receive knowledge in the search for truth.

Full-moon (day, inhale, 180–225°) people have the intense light of the
Sun shining on the feelings, so they are often impulsive and instinctual. The
disseminating or waning-gibbous phase (night, exhale, 225–270°) is
someone who loves to share their knowledge and wisdom with the world.
Someone born under the last-quarter phase (day, inhale, 270–315°) is a
person who feels somewhat out of step with the world and needs to develop
a relationship with their intuitive self. The final, balsamic, or waning-
crescent phase (exhale, night, 315–360°) is someone who is deeply
sensitive and intuitive.

THE FOUR ANGLES OF THE BIRTH CHART
The four angles of the chart are formed by the intersection of the horizontal
and vertical axes of the chart and occur at four points: north, south, east,
and west. These are known as the ascendant, descendant, Medium Coeli
(MC), and Imum Coeli (IC).

The Ascendant or Rising Sign 

The ascendant is the sign and degree that is on the eastern horizon at the
moment and place of birth or the start of any event. The rising sign
represents the part of you that you present to the world, your “receptionist”
that projects a certain image when others meet you. It’s the outer layer of
being known as the persona, also described as the mask that only reveals
what is wanting to be seen initially.

The ascendant also reveals much about a person’s birth and early
childhood and, as such, the ascendant can sometimes be a defense
mechanism in early life and in challenging situations. However, we tend to



grow into our ascendant and live it more proactively as we age. For
example, a person with Capricorn rising can be very serious and reserved
when young but tends to loosen up as they age.

The Medium Coeli (Midheaven)
The midheaven, also known as the Medium Coeli or MC, is the highest
point of the chart and is the cusp of the 10th house in most house systems.
In the northern hemisphere it represents the south and in the southern
hemisphere it represents the north.

The midheaven is the most public place of the chart and represents the
mission, goal, or contribution in life. Often said to represent the career, this
is not always the case—though it does represent the nature of the career the
person would ideally pursue. As the most public place of the chart, this also
represents public reputation and social standing.

The Descendant
The sign and degree on the western horizon at the time of birth, the
descendant represents what you are attracted to in others and how you relate
to other important people in your life. The sign on the descendant represents
the energy of those you will seek partnership with in life. If you have
Gemini on the descendant, for example, you will enjoy intellectually based
partnerships that are a lot of fun. That doesn’t necessarily mean Gemini sun



sign but rather someone who has a lot of air energy in their chart, including
Gemini.

The Imum Coeli (Nadir)
The nadir, also known as the Imum Coeli or IC, is at the very bottom of the
chart and represents the north in the northern hemisphere and the south in
the southern hemisphere. This is the most private part of the astrology chart
and represents your inner, most private life. The sign on the nadir is the
cusp of the fourth house in most house systems and also represents one of
the parents, usually the one who was most inclined to nurture. The
childhood home and the home the person prefers are also represented by the
nadir.

CALCULATING ASPECTS
Aspects are a cornerstone of modern horoscope interpretation. For more
detail on the different aspects, please see chapter 6.

In order to calculate aspects, you need to know the degree and sign of
the planets and the number of degrees between them. The degrees and sign
placements of the planets and other bodies can be found using an
ephemeris, but luckily we have computer programs that do this for us (see
here for suggestions).

Evolutionary Astrology
In most modern western astrological traditions, the birth chart is seen a
map of the soul’s evolutionary potential and development. The chart is
also known as the horoscope, soul map, cosmic blueprint, and natal
chart.

In this book, therefore, we are not looking at the chart as a mere
description of personality that is unchanging throughout a lifetime, but
as a blueprint rich in meaning and possibility. That development occurs
through both the planetary transits and cycles and the free will of the
person to follow the call of development and evolution. This removes
much of the fatalistic interpretations of other astrological traditions.



Predictive astrology has its place, of course. By no means do I mean
to suggest that this evolutionary approach is more valid. The
evolutionary approach merely suits the nature of this book, as it takes
us into a nonbinary approach that works for everyone. In other words,
we are talking about both the evolutionary intention of the soul and the
evolution of astrology itself.

PLANETS IN THEIR DOMINION
If a planet is in its home sign, then its strength is intensified, as are the
qualities of both sign and planet—whether positive or negative.

For example, Mercury in Gemini would give a more voracious appetite
for learning and would also suggest that the person is highly social,
dependent on all the other factors in the chart.

RULING PLANET
The planet that is said to rule the chart and the person or event is the planet
that rules the sign on the ascendant. The sign and house that this planet is in
will modify the ascendant energy. For example, if someone has Aquarius
rising and their ruling planet, Uranus, is in Libra in the sixth house, then it
would suggest that the person has a unique and even quirky mode of
creative self-expression.

STELLIUM
A stellium is three or more planets in a particular sign, meaning the person
will be more of that sign than if there is only one planet in the sign. Because
Mercury and Venus move with the Sun for much of the Solar year, stelliums
will often include one or both of these two personal planets.

PLANETS IN MUTUAL RECEPTION
Two planets are in mutual reception when each one is in the sign that the
other one rules. When planets are in mutual reception, they are connected
even if there is no aspect between them. The two planets support each other



but the quality of that support is dependent on the strength of each planet in
the sign in the chart by triplicity, exaltation, detriment, or fall.

For example, if Mars is in Sagittarius and Jupiter is in Aries, both
planets are in a fire triplicity sign and, therefore, would support each other
well.

ASTEROIDS AND CHIRON
In this section, we’ll look at the four main asteroids and Chiron—though
Ceres has now been promoted to dwarf-planet status. Ceres is the only body
in the asteroid belt so far to be promoted to a dwarf planet. Astronomical
definitions of cosmic bodies are changing due to new discoveries; these
changing definitions seem only fitting as we move into a new paradigm and
begin to change the language used in astrology.

Chiron 

Chiron is one of the most interesting and unusual bodies in astrology. In
mythology, Chiron was a centaur, but he was unlike the other centaurs, who
were quite base creatures. Most centaurs had a human head and torso and
the tail and legs of a horse, but Chiron had human front legs, showing a
more human quality. Chiron was a teacher, healer, and archer, and he was
immortal. When wounded by a poisoned arrow, his immortality kept him
living in agony until he gave up his immortality to save Prometheus.

Because of the myth, Chiron is known as the wounded healer in
astrology and it’s said that he represents the wound in the chart. If we look
at the symbol for Chiron, however, it’s shaped like a key. Combined with
the nature of the myth and Chiron’s reputation as a teacher, mentor, and
healer, it’s more reasonable to see him as the key to healing in your chart.
Chiron is also known as the rainbow bridge between spirit and matter and
the maverick shaman.

Chiron doesn’t have rulership of a sign, but it is associated with the
constellations Centaurus and Sagittarius and has many Sagittarian qualities
—though some also associate the centaur with Virgo because of its healing
abilities. An unhealthy expression of Chiron would be to focus on the
wound rather than the potential healing.



Someone with Chiron in Aquarius in the second house, for example,
may be born with a tendency to feel alienated from others, and that may
affect self-esteem. However, seeking out higher knowledge and communion
with the whole universe will give the person the ability to see the bigger
picture of their place within humanity.

Ceres 

Ceres is known as the Great Mother, the goddess of agriculture, and is
associated with the signs Cancer, Virgo, and Taurus. In the astrological
chart, Ceres represents how we nurture and how we meet our own needs as
shown by the sign Ceres is in. The house placement shows what type of
experiences will help you promote feelings of self-love and self-acceptance.
This equates to your love language.

Ceres is also associated with natural cycles, such as those of pregnancy
and birth, the growing cycles, the seasons, and hospices.

When you are living the best expression of your Ceres, you are attuned
to the natural cycles of nature and your body and honoring your own love
language.

For example, a person with Ceres in Capricorn in the first house feels
heightened self-worth when accomplishing personal goals and when
helping others be responsible for themselves, but they may also overidentify
with responsibility for teaching others and with the need to impress others.
When they focus more on their inner accomplishment and less on the need
to control how others take responsibility, they are expressing the higher
qualities of their Ceres.

Pallas Athena 

Pallas Athena is the goddess of wisdom and a warrior whose astrological
glyph represents the warrior spear of justice in her role as protector of the
state. She is associated with the signs of Libra, Leo, and Aquarius. Pallas
Athena represents one’s capacity for creative wisdom and original thought,
which creates new possibilities. In the chart, she represents inspired vision
and the ability to make sense of complex patterns. A strong placement for
Pallas Athena is often found in the charts of astrologers, so she is known as
the “astrologer’s asteroid.” I have Pallas Athena exactly conjuncting my



ruling planet, Jupiter. Pallas Athena is also known for the soul’s desire to
move toward a less binary world and androgyny, so it is apt that I am
writing a book that moves beyond the binary world that has dominated
astrology. My Pallas Athena not only rules my Sagittarius rising sign, it’s
also in Sagittarius conjuncting the ruler of Sagittarius, the teacher.

Where your Pallas Athena is, by sign and house, will indicate where and
how you are able to utilize creative intelligence.

Vesta 

Vesta is the eternal flame that burns within each of us. In mythology, she
was the priestess of the flame and goddess of the Vestal Virgins and is
associated with the signs Virgo and Scorpio. Remember that the original
meaning of the word virgin was “one who is whole unto themselves,”
which gives a major indication of the symbology of Vesta in astrology.

Vesta represents focus and commitment. Where the asteroid is by sign
and house indicates where we focus our energies or what we are devoted to.
An unhealthy expression can suggest fanaticism and obsession rather than
focus.

If a person has Vesta in Scorpio in the 10th house, for example, they
may be deeply focused on their mission in life and tend to overcommit to
that, often to the exclusion of their interpersonal relationships, especially if
they are not aware of that tendency.

Juno 

Juno was the divine consort, wife of Jupiter (Hera in Greek mythology). In
astrology the asteroid Juno represents our capacity for meaningful
relationships and is associated with the signs Libra (significant
relationships) and Scorpio (deeply bonded relationships). The sign of Libra
is also associated with justice and, as such, Juno is also representative of the
oppressed and underprivileged.

Where Juno is found in sign and house placements represents what you
most desire in a relationship. In Sagittarius and the 11th house, for example,
you would require mutually shared beliefs and vision of the future, and also
for the partner to be a friend as well as a lover.






CHAPTER TEN

Taking a Closer Look
IN THIS CHAPTER, we’ll delve into some of the finer points of birth-
chart interpretation. These include such things as hemisphere

emphasis, the Moon’s nodes, the Part of Fortune, retrograde planets,
intercepted signs, and transits. Of these, the first two are the most important
in natal-chart analysis. Transits are a predictive technique and one we are
only able to touch on in the scope of this book.

HEMISPHERE EMPHASIS
The astrological chart is divided into four separate hemispheres by the
horizon, or horizontal axis, and the meridian, or vertical axis. In this
section, we’ll look at all four of the hemispheres and what an emphasis of
planets and other essential bodies in each hemisphere means.

Southern Hemisphere
The southern hemisphere is the upper half of the chart—this is generally
more extroverted and objective and is day or inhale energy.

Those with a larger number of planetary bodies in this hemisphere are
likely to lead a conscious, event-oriented life and are likely to be energized
by interaction with the outside world.

The house emphasis must be combined with the hemisphere emphasis
because the extroverted qualities of the chart will be most apparent if most
of the planets are in the seventh, ninth, 10th, and 11th houses, and less
marked with a concentration of planets in the eighth and 12th houses, as
these two houses are very private areas of life that are night or exhale
energy and ruled by water signs, meaning that they are more introverted
than the other houses.

Northern Hemisphere
The lower half of the astrological chart is the northern hemisphere. A
concentration of planets here means night, exhale energy and a more



introverted nature. This is a more subjective and inward-focused person
who leads a more intuitive and receptive life.

This person is likely to enjoy solitude and need alone time in order to
feel energized. Likewise, too much time around others will be draining.

A concentration in the first and fifth houses will lessen these qualities
slightly, as these two houses are more outgoing in outlook.

Eastern Hemisphere
In the astrological chart, the eastern hemisphere is the left side of the chart
—an emphasis here is more day, inhale energy. A person with a
concentration of planets here is self-determined, goal-oriented, and
intentional. These individuals are more likely to use their will to
consciously choose and create their own reality. They are often seen as
willful and less likely to work well in collaboration with others.

Western Hemisphere
The western hemisphere is the right side of the astrological chart. This is
night, exhale energy, where we are more likely to surrender to the will of
others and to forces beyond the conscious realm. These individuals are
more collaborative and cooperative in nature but are also more likely to be
receptive to peer pressure.

As they are the type of person to go with the flow, they find it easier to
change course even if they have consciously chosen a certain path.

THE MOON’S NODES: NORTH  AND SOUTH 

The nodes of the Moon are the two points where the Moon’s orbit intersects
with the ecliptic. The north node is where the Moon crosses the ecliptic in a
northerly direction from our perspective and the south node is where the
Moon crosses in a southerly direction. The two lunar nodes are always
opposing each other.

In most astrological interpretations, the Moon’s nodes represent a path
of development for the soul in each lifetime, with the south node
representing the past and the north, the future. Also known as the dragon’s
tail (south node) and dragon’s head (north node), they also represent our
default emotional reactions, or soul habit, and the soul’s potential, or habits



to consciously move toward. They are a continuum of development, with
neither the south node being all bad nor the north node being all good. A
brief summary of the meaning of the nodes is as follows:
North Node in First House or Aries: Develop independence,
courageousness, spontaneity, and self-awareness
North Node in Second House or Taurus: Develop strong values, self-
worth, connection with the Earth and the senses, patience, and loyalty
North Node in Third House or Gemini: Develop curiosity, listening
skills, openness to new ideas and other perspectives, and tact
North Node in Fourth House or Cancer: Develop empathy, the ability to
notice and validate feelings, humility, and awareness and acceptance of
others’ feelings and moods
North Node in Fifth House or Leo: Develop self-confidence, creative self-
expression, willingness to stand out, and a sense of playfulness and fun
North Node in Sixth House or Virgo: Develop a sense of service, more
focus on routines and detail, moderation, and compassionate action
North Node in Seventh House or Libra: Develop the ability to
collaborate, diplomacy, awareness of the needs of others and how to live
and work with others, and sharing
North Node in Eighth House or Scorpio: Develop less attachment to
material worth, awareness of others' psychological desires and motives, and
sharing power dynamics
North Node in Ninth House or Sagittarius: Develop awareness of and
trust in your intuition or guidance from source, sense of adventure and self-
trust, and awareness of higher consciousness
North Node in 10th House or Capricorn: Develop self-control and
respect, taking the mature role in situations, responsibility, and dependence
on self
North Node in 11th House or Aquarius: Develop self-approval and a
willingness to share inventive and unconventional ideas, the ability to work
in groups and to connect with humanity in an egalitarian and humanitarian
way, and the ability to connect with like-minded people



North Node in 12th House or Pisces: Develop compassion, trust in and
surrender to source or the collective creation principle, unconditional love,
and a spiritual path and self-reflective practices
South Node in First House or Aries: Work to lessen the grip of the habits
of impulsiveness, unhealthy selfishness, anger issues, and overassertiveness
South Node in Second House or Taurus: Work to lessen stubborn
tendencies, resistance to change, overattachment to ownership and
accumulation of material possessions, overeating, and other
overindulgences
South Node in Third House or Gemini: Work to lessen the impact of
indecisiveness, the belief that you always need more information or more
study before acting, ignoring intuition, and trusting others’ opinions and
ideas over your own
South Node in Fourth House or Cancer: Work to lessen dependence on
others, insecurity, manipulative use of emotions, risk avoidance, and
overattachment to fears and safety
South Node in Fifth House or Leo: Work to lessen the need for other’s
adulation and approval, sense of entitlement, risk-taking, and melodramatic
tendencies
South Node in Sixth House or Virgo: Work to lessen the tendencies to be
giving to the point of self-sacrifice, difficulties receiving from others,
analysis paralysis, anxiety and worry, and being overly critical
South Node in Seventh House or Libra: Work to lessen the habits of
selflessness, playing nice to the detriment of yourself and others,
codependence, and only being able to see the self through the eyes of others
South Node in Eighth House or Scorpio: Work to lessen obsessive or
compulsive habits, preoccupation with the motivations and actions of
others, hyperreactivity and irritation with others, and attraction to crisis
situations
South Node in Ninth House or Sagittarius: Work to lessen the habits of
being dogmatic and self-righteous, not listening to what others are really
saying, and talking over others and speaking before thinking things through



South Node in 10th House or Capricorn: Work to lessen the need to be in
control of and responsible for everything and everyone, needing to appear
strong at all times, and being too goal-focused
South Node in 11th House or Aquarius: Work to lessen the habit of
detaching from emotional situations and appearing cold, avoiding
confrontation, and tending to shapeshift to fit in with the crowd so you feel
accepted rather than embracing your individuality
South Node in 12th House or Pisces: Work to lessen oversensitivity and
playing victim, tendencies to withdraw and give up easily, extreme
escapism and avoidance of the “real” world, and self-doubt

THE PART OF FORTUNE 

The Part, or Lot, of Fortune is a point that is calculated from the longitudes
of the Sun, Moon, and ascendant, a technique that was commonly used in
ancient astrology. It is being revived with the resurgence of Hellenistic
astrology. It’s one of many Arabic or Greek techniques but is the most
commonly known and used. The Part of Fortune can be calculated in most
astrological software.

The Part of Fortune is calculated by the following method: In a day
chart, which is a chart where the Sun is found in the southern hemisphere or
above the horizon, the Part of Fortune is found where the Moon would be if
the Sun were on the ascendant. In a night chart, where the Sun is found in
the northern hemisphere or below the horizon, the Part of Fortune is found
where the Sun would be if the Moon were on the ascendant. In both cases,
you count the number of degrees between the Sun and Moon and calculate
that same distance either clockwise or counterclockwise, depending on the
natal-chart placements from the ascendant, to find the placement of the Part
of Fortune.

The Part of Fortune generally indicates what the name suggests and
shows where you may find your luck and how easily you find abundance or
wealth. The sign and house that the Part of Fortune is in suggests the area
where you will find fortune. For example, a Part of Fortune in Gemini in the
sixth house might indicate fortune through speaking or writing, especially if
done with a focus on serving others.



Lunar Node Facts: Eclipses and Soul Groups
When a new or full moon occurs near the lunar nodes, from our
perspective, eclipses occur.

A lunar (full-moon) eclipse occurs when the Earth comes between
the Sun and Moon and within 11º 38' of either lunar node. A solar
(new-moon) eclipse occurs when the Moon comes between the Earth
and the Sun within 17º 25' of either lunar node. The closer the degree
aspect to the nodes, the higher the totality of the eclipse.

The lunar nodes stay in two signs of the zodiac—the south node in
one sign and the north node in the opposite or polarity sign—for
approximately a year and a half. All eclipses during that period will be
in one of the two signs.

Anyone born during that period will share the same nodes, and
since the nodes represent a path of soul development, those people are
said to belong to the same soul group.

The cycle of the lunar nodes is approximately 18.5 years, so those
born around 18.5 years after us will be born into that same group.
Those born approximately nine years before or after us are our nodal
opposites and we often feel a strong attraction to those people, as they
help us develop those north-node traits.

RETROGRADE PLANETS
A planet is said to be retrograde when it appears to go backward from our
earthly perspective. No planet actually does go backward; the retrograde
motion is because of a relative difference in speed when planets are at their
closest point to the Earth. When a planet is farther away from the Earth, it
appears to be moving direct or forward. In fact, all planets in our solar
system are revolving around the Sun, so this anomaly is from our
perspective because of our relative orbits.

The days where a planet appears to stop and go retrograde, or direct at
the end of the retrograde period, are called the stations. The Sun and Moon
never appear to be retrograde. All the other planets do go retrograde and
Mercury goes retrograde three or four times a year. In an astrology chart, a



retrograde planet either will have red text or will have an “R” next to it. A
stationary planet will have an “S” next to it. Retrograde periods are at their
strongest in the lead up to and for a few days after the station date.

The impact of the apparent retrograde is because of the proximity to the
Earth and the fact that the planet appears to retrace an area of the zodiac
from our perspective, making its energy more keenly felt. The retracing of
the path through an area of the zodiac takes us on a more inward or night
journey, or invites us to exhale and release some lessons from the period
when the planet was direct.

If a natal chart has retrograde planets, then you are likely to feel
somewhat out of step with what’s considered the norm in society in that
area of life—you march to the beat of your own drum. It’s also an area
where you are more inwardly focused. This is heightened when the
retrograde planet is a personal planet, like Mercury, Venus, or Mars. If
Jupiter or Saturn is retrograde, the person may feel alien to the dominant
culture in some way. If an outer planet—Neptune, Uranus, or Pluto—is
retrograde, then the person may feel out of step with their generation in
some way. It’s uncommon to have more than three retrogrades in a natal
chart but if a person does they will feel very out of step with the world they
were born into and are likely to be one who really is unique.

INTERCEPTED SIGNS
Intercepted signs occur when using unequal house systems such as those of
Placidus, Porphyry, or Koch (see here), which are time-based house systems
—the first house begins with the actual degree of the ascendant and houses
are of different sizes, as they are calculated by dividing the space around the
ecliptic by different methods. In these house systems, the difference in size
is greater the further away from the equator the person was born. Most
modern western astrologers use time-based house systems. Opposing
houses are always the same size, so you will always have at least two
intercepted signs if you have any. This will also mean that the same sign
will rule the cusp of two houses.

Astrologers practicing more traditional techniques often use space-
based systems, such as Whole Sign or Equal House systems, where the
houses are equally divided by 30º.



When a sign is intercepted in the natal chart, the energy of that sign is
harder to access by the person, and it will represent blocks where they have
found that part of themselves hard to develop in early life—they will have
to consciously learn to develop it. Looking at the placement and aspects of
the ruling planet of the intercepted sign can help you learn to access that
part of the chart.

Retrograde Explained
All planets have retrograde periods. However, the Sun and Moon never
appear to go retrograde. All planets appear retrograde for different
periods and with different regularity, known as the synodic period.
MERCURY appears to be retrograde three and sometimes even four times
a year and is retrograde for 21 days every 3.8 months.
VENUS appears to be retrograde for around 21 days every 19.2 months.
MARS appears to be retrograde for around 72 days every 25.6 months.
JUPITER appears to be retrograde for around 121 days every 13.1
months.
SATURN appears to be retrograde for around 138 days every 12.4
months.
URANUS appears to be retrograde for around 151 days every 12.15
months.
NEPTUNE appears to be retrograde for around 158 days every 12.07
months.
PLUTO appears to be retrograde for around 150 days every 12.3 months.

ASTROLOGICAL TRANSITS
Transits are a means of interpreting the ongoing movement of the planetary
bodies as they relate to the natal chart. A planet can transit a natal planet by
any aspect and are a way to forecast trends and personal development.
Interpreting a transit involves blending the keywords for the transiting



planet by sign and house with the transited planet or point in the chart by
sign and house.

One of the most important ways of looking at transits is to look at
planetary returns. This means the planet returns to the same point it was at
in the natal chart, and this usually only happens for the planets up to
Uranus, since Neptune has a 164-year cycle and Pluto has a 248-year cycle.

Lunar returns occur around every 28 days and solar returns occur every
365 days. A return chart can be cast for any planetary return and signifies
the person’s development and focus for the next cycle of that planet.

The most commonly used return chart is the Solar Return chart. This is
cast for the moment the Sun returns to the degree and minute it was at in the
natal chart. Astrologers differ as to whether to use the natal place of birth or
the current location; I prefer to use the natal. The Solar Return chart is read
like the natal chart but is focused only on the coming year. The chart,
therefore, is an indicator of what your next solar year will bring and where
your focus will be.

One of the best-known returns is the Saturn return, which occurs around
the ages of 29, 58, and 87 and indicates major periods of maturation or
stages of life.

Now that we have taken a closer look and have added depth to chart
analysis, we’ll move on to look at your calling, to give you an idea of what
careers are a good fit for each sign of the zodiac.









SUN SIGNS AT WORK AND
IN LOVE
IN PART 3, we’ll cover all 12 sun signs in work and love to give you some
ideas for potential careers and how compatible each sign is with others.






CHAPTER ELEVEN

Your Calling According to the Zodiac
A BIRTH CHART can give a person a great indication about the type of
work that will be most fulfilling and will best complement a

person’s unique talents and abilities. It cannot, however, tell you exactly
what career path to take, so it’s best to see it as the opening up of
possibilities.

In this chapter, we’ll take a close look at ideal careers and personal
profiles as they relate to those careers for each sign of the zodiac. There will
be suggested careers for each sign, but please use them as a springboard to
other possibilities. For example, a photographer might be a suggestion
based on the career indicators in the chart, such as a Gemini midheaven, but
if the chart has a heavy eighth-house emphasis as well, the person might be
drawn to boudoir photography due to the deeper themes and soul challenges
of that style of photography.

To get a clear picture of the career best suited for you, you must look
beyond your sun sign—I suggest looking at the sign on the midheaven or
cusp of the 10th house in the natal chart and then looking at the sign and
house placement of the ruler of that sign to give a deeper picture of what
kind of work would suit you best. A deeper reading would also look at the
sixth house, to see what daily type of work would suit your personality best,
alongside element and modality emphasis, stelliums in a sign, and aspects.
In other words, the whole chart must be considered to get an in-depth
vocational analysis. In that vein, I will give examples of famous sun-sign
individuals—but we are more than our sun sign alone, so please take all of
this into account when interpreting your own chart.

ARIES AT WORK
Aries are best suited to careers where they take the lead or work
independently, preferably starting new projects with others to whom they
can delegate to finish what they started. Aries like fast-moving and
competitive environments where their natural enthusiasm will not be



dampened. Aries are usually bold and up for any challenge, prepared to take
risks, and have a no-nonsense attitude. They are the fearless straight
shooters of the world.

Firefighter, surgeon, emergency medical technician, art director, public
relations professional, military or law enforcement officer, entrepreneur,
venture capitalist, free climber, tour guide, CrossFit instructor or sports
coach, athlete, metal sculptor, mechanic, hunter, silver-or other metalsmith,
and chef would all be ideal careers for an Aries.

The Aries boss can be inspiring, energetic, and a born leader. You will
be left with no doubt how the boss feels about your work, whether that be
the highest praise or the rudest and most direct criticism. There is no
vindictiveness; the Aries boss is just direct to a fault. The Aries boss
dislikes overthinking and expects everyone to put a lot of energy into their
work and to complete projects quickly. They also enjoy admiration and
respect but can see through any fake flattery in an instant.

Aries employees can be the hardest working and most dynamic
employees if you don’t try to keep them in a rigid routine or stuck at a desk.
If your Aries employees feel bored, they will probably move on. They work
best when they are given autonomy and are answerable to as few people as
possible. If given the freedom to take ownership of their own schedule and
way of working, they will be the most productive and dynamic employees.

The Aries coworker isn’t really the best at coworking unless you are
happy to let them take the lead and do their own thing. They are
competitive and like to be first, so they will not react well if their coworkers
make their way up the ladder before they do. However, if you are happy to
let them lead, they can be full of zest and very inspiring.

Well-known Aries People
Lady Gaga, Elton John, Tommy Hilfiger, and Jackie Chan were all born
under the sign of Aries.

TAURUS AT WORK
Taurus are best suited to careers that give them stability and security. Taurus
individuals are loyal and tenacious but can also be stubborn and ponderous.
They also love the good things in life: good food, beautiful and comfortable
surroundings, and nature.



Taurus love the tangible things of life and, therefore, love to work with
the tangible. This means things that they can touch, see, smell, hear, and
taste.

Good careers for Taurus are banker, cashier, financier, mortgage officer,
singer, farmer, real estate professional, interior designer, podiatrist,
reflexologist, florist, gardener, landscaper, jeweler, beauty blogger, brand
ambassador, wine maker, chef, landscape photographer, executive assistant,
and restaurant manager.

The Taurus boss is a builder and will persistently expand and grow
whatever business or field they work in. They are probably the most patient
boss of all and they like a harmonious and peaceful environment. As such,
they are usually not reactive over small issues. Really big issues, however,
can turn the Taurus into a raging bull, but the Taurus boss will usually give
the employee a chance to rectify mistakes before losing their cool.

Since the Taurus boss likes solidity and stable outcomes, they usually
will be tolerant of those needing extra time to do something well rather than
demand it be completed in a rush. They love employees who are disciplined
and careful in their approach.

The Taurus employee is reliable, steadfast, and trustworthy. They have a
soothing presence around the workplace and don’t get thrown off by crisis
—in fact, a crisis can bring out the best in them as they calmly deal with a
situation.

The Taurus coworker is also pleasant to be around, though their
ponderous pace can frustrate some faster moving people, as can their
resistance to change. However, they are likely to bring good snacks into the
workplace, so if you would like a treat, they are good to connect with. They
are also fabulous at helping self-starters finish projects.

Well-known Taurus People
George Clooney, Stevie Wonder, Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson, Kenan
Thompson, Sam Smith, and Kristen Stewart were all born under the sign of
Taurus.

Astrological Signs of the Rich and Famous



Reading the Forbes top 100 list of highest paid entertainers for 2018,
it’s fun to look at which signs best combine talent and wealth-building
abilities.

Taurus celebrities topped the list with 12.68 percent of the top 100
born under the sign. This is not surprising, since Taurus natives are
usually good at wealth building. George Clooney, Dwayne “The Rock”
Johnson, and Jerry Seinfeld are included in this list.

Sagittarians are the least likely entertainers to be included on the list
with only 2.7 percent in the top 100. Sagittarians tend to value
experience over money, and that may be why there are fewer on the list.
Scarlett Johansson and Jay-Z are two of the Sagittarians on the list.

On the Forbes list of billionaires, there were 27 Librans topping the
list. Librans are usually very good in business. Ralph Lauren and Alice
Walton are included here.

Perhaps surprisingly, since Capricorn is generally an ambitious and
hardworking sign, only eight billionaires were born under the sign of
Capricorn. Jeff Bezos is on this list.

GEMINI AT WORK
The chatty, curious, and mercurial nature of Gemini means that that they are
best suited to careers that give them lots of opportunities to keep learning
new information and meeting with lots of people. They are not lovers of
routine or sitting still for long. Geminis are persuasive, generally great
speakers, youthful, and love multitasking. They enjoy fast-paced
environments.

Careers that would suit Gemini individuals are scientist, advertising
agent, journalist, writer, teacher, accountant, computer programmer,
engineer, project manager, media analyst, communications specialist,
interpreter, transportation worker, driver, storyteller, entertainer, radio or
podcast host, blogger, photographer, tutor, guide, personal assistant,
salesperson, or TV host.

A Gemini boss can be difficult to work for due to their restless and
unpredictable nature. They will constantly be on the move. They work best
when all routine tasks are delegated, and they are left to deal with ideas and
abstract projects and schemes. Change is a constant with the Gemini boss
and they tend to notice everything that’s going on.



Gemini bosses are hugely likeable, however, as they have a great sense
of humor and are very gregarious—but they are generally quite emotionally
detached and won’t want to get too involved in any emotional dramas
among employees. To more staid employees, working for a Gemini boss
can feel like a ball of confusion, but they are not the confused ones. If you
can live with the changeability and fast pace, you will have fun with this
boss.

A Gemini employee does not like being confined in any way and will
become very agitated if they feel hemmed in, which will make them
ineffective. Although they seem to be absentminded, they really do soak up
information and will get the job done. This is especially true if their natural
skills are utilized. They are also likely to negotiate raises easily, as they will
always have a good argument as to why they deserve it.

As a coworker, Gemini will be a lot of fun—but very distracting, as
their mind flits from one subject to another often. They will talk circles
around everyone they work with but will be the life and soul of the
workplace and will probably organize work parties or events.

Well-known Gemini People
Marilyn Monroe, Paul McCartney, Harvey Milk, Venus Williams, Aung San
Suu Kyi, Laverne Cox, and Boy George were all born under the sign of
Gemini.

CANCER AT WORK
Cancer individuals are adaptable and a nurturing presence. They are best
suited to careers involving looking after people or homes in some way.
They are also traditional and love anything to do with heritage and
sentiment. Their emotional connection to their career is important, or they
are likely to become emotional and maybe even irrational. They are usually
good with finances.

Good career ideas for Cancer are nurse, pediatrician or OB-GYN,
counseling, business manager, home stager, real estate buyers’ agent,
archaeologist, historian, caterer, baker, nutritionist, dietitian, professional
organizer, feng shui practitioner, teacher, chef, content manager, branding
expert, website designer, social worker, or merchandiser.



Cancer bosses are strict about work ethics and quite devoted to
whatever profession or business they are in. Employees will be rewarded
for good effort in their jobs, but any slacking or bad timekeeping will be
frowned upon. Cancer’s own needs for financial security make the
workplace a serious arena, so if you have a Cancer boss, a careful and
sincere approach to all that you do will work best.

Cancer employees work for financial security mainly and, therefore,
take a serious approach to their career and are very diligent. They do expect
to be rewarded for their diligence with decent pay raises; if they are, they
will stay in the role for a long time. Cancer will also be aiming to climb up
the ladder. The biggest downside is that if a Cancer has any emotional
problems in their life, they will find it hard to keep that separate from work.

Cancer coworkers are natural team players and are usually kind and
caring to those they work with. However, they need a stress-free work
environment—if things get chaotic, so do their emotions.

Well-known Cancer People
Nelson Mandela, Malala Yousafzai, George Michael, Missy Elliott, Michael
Flatley, and Danny Glover were all born under the sign of Cancer.

LEO AT WORK
Leo loves being in the spotlight and is the royal of the zodiac, or at least
that’s how they expect to be treated. Leos are, however, full of heart and are
passionate, playful, creative, and entertaining. As they are natural leaders,
they are best suited to careers that put them in that position or doing
something where they can shine their enormous light.

Examples of good Leo careers are actor, DJ, graphic designer,
advertising agent, comedian, broadcaster, CEO, government worker,
architect, director, event planner, media strategist, vlogger, model, product
promoter, sales executive, jeweler, artist, or children’s entertainer.

The Leo boss is born to lead and will let everyone know it. Leo is a
good organizer and is smart about assigning tasks to a team. They are also
open to new ideas but not always good at crediting those who came up with
the idea. Leos generally create quite a showy environment to work in, and
this can be a lot of fun if you always let them be the boss. Never try to



outshine a Leo boss because they are very proud and may react like a child
if thwarted.

As an employee, Leo will require a lot of ego stroking and lots of
compliments and attention. They also respond well to titles and status. If
you ignore them, however, they will be deeply hurt and will not respond
well. They must have a position that displays their talents—when they do,
their loyalty and pride in their work is immense.

If you are genuine around a Leo coworker, they will be loyal to you in
the workplace. They do tend to feel they rule the workplace, though, so it’s
expedient to let them believe they do. When a Leo’s pride and heart is hurt,
they often display childlike behavior and can pout, but when a Leo is happy,
they light up the room and are benevolent to everyone around them. It
benefits everyone to show admiration and to compliment the Leo boss
because they will return the love to all their employees.

Well-known Leo People
Madonna, Magic Johnson, Anna Paquin, Whitney Houston, and Demi
Lovato were all born under the sign of Leo.

VIRGO AT WORK
Virgos are best suited to careers that utilize their critical and analytical
skills. They are drawn to working with their hands, using their hand-eye
coordination through technical skills. Highly organized and detail oriented,
they are also drawn to careers that feel meaningful and useful to the greater
good. In other words, they like to be of service to others and will pursue any
career to the point of perfection.

Ideal careers for Virgo are accountant, nutritionist or dietitian,
researcher, critic, data analyst, statistician, auditor, housekeeper, organizer,
investigator, investor, technician, sculptor, web designer, fashion designer,
3D modeler, computer engineer, veterinarian, welder, herbalist, receptionist,
psychologist, psychiatrist, bookkeeper, librarian, bank clerk, medical
researcher, editor, technical writer, inspector, or engineer.

The Virgo boss will notice every detail and may have a tendency to
micromanage, as they want everything to be done to their standard of
perfection. They will put a lot of time into planning and forethought before
making decisions, but that can sometimes mean that they don’t have the



perspective of the bigger picture. Virgos are their own biggest critic in all
situations. Even though the Virgo boss has very high standards, they are not
authoritarian, and they are excellent at crisis management because, like
most earth signs, they are patient.

As an employee, Virgo lacks ego gratification and wants to serve, but
they do have a sense of fairness, so they will need to be compensated fairly
and they are likely to hold you to every detail of an employment contract.
As Virgos tend to be worriers, their focus on those details reflects any
worries they have about not being financially stable and independent. Put
them in a position that utilizes their attention to detail and you and your
company will be rewarded well.

Virgo coworkers are caretakers and will help more slapdash coworkers
attend to the details—but that can come across as critical and nitpicking at
times. They can also come across as anxious and stressed when the details
aren’t being taken care of. If you need an ibuprofen or some other medicine,
however, your Virgo coworker will likely have it on hand because they have
a keen interest in all aspects of health. They are likely to have lots of to-do
lists.

Well-known Virgo People
Beyoncé, Pink, Keanu Reeves, Stephen Fry, Lily Tomlin, and Mother
Teresa were all born under the sign of Virgo.

LIBRA AT WORK
Librans love peace, harmony, and balance and work best in an atmosphere
that reflects that energy. They are also people-oriented and love to interact
with others and form relationships, so they don’t really enjoy working
alone. They also enjoy any career that involves creating fairness.

Ideal careers for Libra are artist, human resources (HR) manager,
mediator, diplomat, makeup artist or hairstylist, graphic designer, lawyer,
matchmaker, fashion designer, guidance counselor, negotiator, event
planner, nurse, business administrator, quality control officer, musician,
politician, creative advertising agent, liberal arts professor, social worker, or
labor relations officer.

The Libra boss would be better working in partnership than alone, but
either way they will run a fair and just organization, treating everyone



equally in all respects. Constant attempts to please everyone can make the
Libra appear indecisive and vacillating. They don’t enjoy aggressive and
argumentative employees and will be impressed by those who take care of
their appearance and play nice.

The Libra employee brings their calming presence into any work
situation and will be a paragon of tact and diplomacy, getting along with
almost everyone as long as the environment isn’t loud and contentious.
They are ambitious, will want deserved promotions, and, being an air, day
sign, like to be given tasks that will use their intellectual capabilities.

The Libra coworker is gracious, clever, and tends to be friends with
everyone. They will not take sides in heated discussions and do often take
things personally, but they are likely to be kind to your face to keep a
pleasant atmosphere in the workplace.

Well-known Libra People
Serena Williams, Martina Navratilova, Oscar Wilde, Will Smith, Bruno
Mars, and Cardi B were all born under the sign of Libra.

SCORPIO AT WORK
Scorpio is a deep and complex sign that will work best in environments
where their almost obsessive tendencies allow them to dive deeply into their
work. As they are very private people, they work well alone and won’t be
drawn into small talk and chatting at the water cooler.

Careers that will suit a Scorpio are psychotherapist, surgeon, detective,
researcher, engineer, forensics scientist, financial advisor, market analyst,
bill collector, investigator, politician, political analyst, mortician, medical
examiner, fertility specialist, sex therapist, chemist, shamanic healer,
boudoir photographer, or undertaker.

The Scorpio boss is intense and can be intimidating, as they have a
penetrative presence and can see the motivations of others, and they will
use that ability to their advantage. The Scorpio boss will not immediately
trust their employees but once they do, they reward deserving and talented
people. Their lack of trust can create issues with delegating tasks, which can
reduce productivity on the team.

The Scorpio employee keeps to themselves, is very poised, and oozes
inner confidence. They are the most resourceful, single-minded, and self-



motivated workers, but they are likely to be quite intimidating to both
employers and employees. They are best allocated to a deep and intensive
project that will allow them to stay in their zone and work alone.

The Scorpio coworker has a strong presence and insight into the psyche
of their coworkers. Their natural listening abilities mean that others will
share their deepest issues with the Scorpio but will learn little about them in
return. Because they are so diligent, they make decent coworkers if you
don’t expect anything light and fluffy.

Well-known Scorpio People
Leonardo DiCaprio, Jodie Foster, Drake, Whoopi Goldberg, Tim Cook,
RuPaul, and Julia Roberts were all born under the sign of Scorpio.

SAGITTARIUS AT WORK
Sagittarians are naturally curious, upbeat, adventurous, and best suited to a
career that gives them the freedom to explore either physically or mentally.
Roles where their naturally philosophical nature can shine and where they
are constantly exploring new realms will also be fulfilling for them.

Sagittarians are suited to careers such as theologian, yoga teacher,
publisher, travel guide, travel agent, interpreter, lawyer, judge, professor,
high school teacher, ambassador, athlete (especially equestrian),
entrepreneur, hotel manager, marketer, salesperson, missionary, architect,
archaeologist, public relations manager, personal trainer, brand ambassador,
or travel blogger.

The Sagittarius boss is fun to work for and cool to be around. They are
very easygoing, and their thirst for knowledge and new experiences will
give employees opportunities to expand their own field of knowledge. The
one downside is the notorious Sagittarius foot-in-mouth syndrome, and they
may offend those around them with their blunt and unthinking honesty.

As employees, their positive outlook is refreshing and their enthusiasm
and self-confidence can rub off on other employees. They will question
everything they are told, however, as they don’t like being told “that’s just
how it’s done,” and their forthright honesty can be ill-received. Generally,
their brilliant mind and keen approach wins out.

A Sagittarius coworker is a joy to have around if you can keep up with
them. They usually have a wry sense of humor and love to make others



laugh—and they also love a good debate. They tend to want to lift those
around them up, however, which makes them good to work with.

Well-known Sagittarius People
Taylor Swift, Billie Jean King, Nicki Minaj, Raven-Symoné, Gianni
Versace, and Jamie Foxx were all born under the sign of Sagittarius.

CAPRICORN AT WORK
Capricorns are real builders; they love to create something solid and lasting,
whether that be a building, a career, or a business. They are best suited to an
environment that enables them to utilize their strong work ethic and are
both entrepreneurial and corporate in nature because Capricorns enjoy
structure and established hierarchies.

Careers that suit the Capricorn are accountant, professional organizer,
teacher, cashier, orthopedic doctor, financial planner, computer programmer,
CEO, copywriter, business analyst, architect, consultant, analyst, customer
service manager, legal secretary, jeweler, construction worker, electrician,
human resources manager, supply chain manager, dentist, or forest
management professional.

The Capricorn boss is dedicated, hardworking, and completely focused
on building their career or business. You might find the Capricorn boss so
focused on work that they work long hours, often to the detriment of any
fun or enjoyment in their lives. The Capricorn boss can manage a team very
effectively and is also good at managing difficult clients and crisis
situations. Serious and hardworking team members impress the Capricorn
boss.

The Capricorn employee is probably the hardest working person in the
organization and will be so without any fuss and drama. As such, the
Capricorn will be reserved and businesslike, follow the rules of the
workplace, and doggedly climb the ladder.

As a coworker, Capricorn is likely to make sure everyone is doing their
job correctly and will frown on any coworkers who are bad timekeepers or
sloppy in their approach. They are also likely to be the first to agree to
overtime and are very dependable, as well as generous with their time and
assistance to coworkers.



Well-known Capricorn People
David Bowie, Ricky Martin, Denzel Washington, Ellen DeGeneres, Betty
White, and Mary J. Blige were all born under the sign of Capricorn.

AQUARIUS AT WORK
Aquarians are the nonconformists of the zodiac and are not the best rule
followers, so are best suited to an environment that utilizes their innovative
and quirky nature. They are also the humanitarians of the zodiac, so if they
feel their career is helping a cause of some kind they will feel more
fulfilled. They often operate at a very high mental level, so they are happiest
using their mind.

Aquarian careers are astrologer, astronomer, computer programmer,
inventor, professor, environmental engineer, political strategist, judge,
social worker, toxicologist, actor, project manager, researcher,
physiotherapist, personal trainer, data analyst, environmental planner, poet,
musician, electrician, x-ray technician, technical advisor, auto worker,
aerospace engineer, neurologist, or hypnotherapist.

The Aquarius boss will be a reformer and innovator and will like to
create new ways of doing things—they will also be open to your innovative
ideas. This boss likes intellect and is distant emotionally so they will not
enjoy emotional dramas in the workplace. As this person is so independent
in thought and life, they are often found working alone rather than running a
team.

The Aquarian employee will have a lot of friends but few deep
friendships, and they will draw the team around them. They are also likely
to appear absentminded and to be quite forgetful of mundane details, as
their mind is constantly connecting dots about how things work in the
bigger scheme of things. They are, however, conscientious, loyal, and
quirky.

The Aquarius coworker is always interesting and interested in you at an
intellectual level. Expect them to want to have intellectual conversations
and to be really friendly. They might also try to convert you to their latest
humanitarian cause. They are compassionate but will want to do something
active rather than soothe others emotionally.

Well-known Aquarius People



Alicia Keys, Alice Walker, Justin Timberlake, Harry Styles, Michael
Jordan, and Oprah Winfrey were all born under the sign of Aquarius.

PISCES AT WORK
Pisceans are the dreamers and creatives of the zodiac and are best suited to
careers that allow them to flow intuitively and creatively and change
direction when the mood takes them. The corporate world isn’t generally a
fit for them unless they work in a creative capacity, because the nuts and
bolts of business are not generally their forte.

Careers that suit the Pisces native are psychic, medium, artist, home
decorator, social worker, nonprofit worker, counselor, nurse, physical
therapist, filmmaker, musician, health educator, photographer, energy
healer, caretaker, pharmacology, fiction writer, podiatrist, anesthetist,
advertising executive, physicist, jailer, poet, actor, recruiter, or diver.

Piscean bosses are best when working in creative industries, as they are
soft and gentle, not good at leading and giving instructions. Forceful
employees will challenge the Piscean boss, but they work well if their team
believes in their vision and intuitive insights.

Pisces employees must be in a career that suits their sensitive soul.
Noisy, challenging, and fast-moving environments will make the Pisces
employee miserable. If a Pisces individual works in a calm environment,
they will work dutifully. Pisceans' naturally empathic nature makes them
best suited to small teams, and they will need to protect themselves from the
emotions of everyone around them.

Well-known Pisces People
Rihanna, Ellen Page, Wanda Sykes, Jon Hamm, Trevor Noah, George
Harrison, and Steve Jobs were all born under the sign of Pisces.









CHAPTER TWELVE

Love According to the Zodiac
IN THIS CHAPTER, we’ll take a closer look at romantic compatibility
for each sign of the zodiac. While there are other important

influences and factors in a person’s chart that help determine romantic
compatibility, this analysis provides a general guide and overview as to how
each sun sign deals with love. If you want an in-depth analysis that extends
beyond the sun signs, birth charts should be cast according to part 2. That
information should be used to provide a greater understanding of each
individual’s strengths, their unique personalities, and how they would work
together. All planets, house placements, and aspects between the two charts
add detail and nuance to a compatibility reading.

Please note, there are not any “good” or “bad” pairings. Each person
and sign is complex, and a combination that may have once been advised
against in many astrological books and articles may actually work because
of Venus and Mars connections, for example. Take this as a general guide
only and think outside the box, applying the descriptions used for a sign to
the person’s Venus sign, for example. Also, remember to take the sign on
descendant, the house placements, and the aspects between the charts into
account for a deeper interpretation. We are complex human beings, and sun
sign connections alone tell us only one part of the story.

ARIES IN LOVE
Aries is bold, straightforward, and forthright in love and will go after
someone they desire enthusiastically. You will always know where you
stand with an Aries person because of their directness. They are often the
one to initiate a relationship. Their zest for life is highly appealing but can
be a little overwhelming and seemingly aggressive for some gentler signs.
They will never let issues fester.

Romantic Combinations



• Aries and Aries are a fiery combination that is extremely passionate. Both
are independent and competitive, and this can lead to lively and
sometimes explosive battles, but both partners actually quite enjoy the
sparring.

• Aries and Taurus are a combination of fast and passionate and slow and
sensual. Aries pushes Taurus into action, whereas Taurus calms down
impulsive Aries.

• Aries and Gemini are a team, with Aries taking the lead and Gemini
providing the ideas that are fanned by the fire of Aries. These two have a
lot of fun together.

• Aries and Cancer are a great team, with the Aries partner taking all the
outer-world action and the Cancer partner keeping the home fires
burning.

• Aries and Leo are another fiery combination with a lot of fun and also
some explosive fights. Aries is more of the initiator, with Leo being the
one who actually makes the plan real.

• Aries and Virgo are a mix of impulse and conservatism, with Aries
providing excitement to liven up Virgo and Virgo bringing patience and
practicality to ground Aries.

• Aries and Libra are a mix of Aries action and independence and Libra
negotiation and team playing. If Aries can try to compromise a little and
Libra lets Aries take the lead now and then, it will work well.

• Aries and Scorpio are a passionate combination, where the Aries
openness and honesty will pierce the more private and investigative
energy of Scorpio.

• Aries and Sagittarius are another fiery and adventurous combination, with
only the Sagittarian lack of tact and the Aries need to dominate causing
occasional issues.

• Aries and Capricorn can be a successful combination if the individual
needs for independence and achievement are respected and neither tries
to control the other.

• Aries and Aquarius are another bold and impulsive combination and both
are likely to share a wicked sense of humor.

• Aries and Pisces can work well if Aries is aware of Piscean sensitivity
and learns to compromise a little. Pisces will be endlessly loyal and flow



with Aries’s spontaneity.

TAURUS IN LOVE
A Taurus in love is loyal and persevering to a fault and will take their time
making a commitment. When they do, however, you can be absolutely sure
they mean it. Once in a relationship, their sense of family loyalty and
financial stability will keep them devoted to the person they choose. If hurt,
they do find it hard to forgive.

Romantic Combinations
• Taurus and Taurus are both loyal and down to earth, will enjoy all the

home comforts together, and will be prepared to work to create that
home.

• Taurus and Gemini are a match that will need to compromise, with a little
less stubbornness and willingness to be a little more sociable from Taurus
and with Gemini finding some patience and slowing down a little.

• Taurus and Cancer are both loyal and affectionate and will create an
amazing home together, fulfilling each other’s emotional needs.

• Taurus and Leo relationships will need a lot of compromise, as Leos are
passionate and live for today and Taurus people are practical and patient
and live for stability. Of course, that means that if they can compromise,
they can have it all.

• Taurus and Virgo are two signs that match well, as they are both practical
and responsible. Virgo brings a bit of humor to the mix and Taurus brings
more sensuality.

• Taurus and Libra are both ruled by Venus—both are romantic and love
luxury. If Taurus can be aware of Libra’s need to be social and flirtatious
and if Libra can be aware of Taurus’s need for stability, they can work
together well.

• Taurus and Scorpio are a case of opposites attract, and both tend to bring
out the best in each other. Financially, they will be extremely stable and
they are both very sensual.

• Taurus and Sagittarius can work well, as Taurus brings grounding and
routine to the sometimes flighty Sagittarius and Sagittarius brings some
spontaneity and optimism into the mix.



• Taurus and Capricorn are an earthy and practical combination, with
Capricorn bringing ambition and humor and Taurus bringing
steadfastness and providing the home base.

• Taurus and Aquarius require acceptance of differences but can work if
both have similar life views. Aquarius likes to shake things up and loves
intellectual exploration, whereas Taurus likes more practical and earthly
things but, of course, if both can compromise, it works.

• Taurus and Pisces are a good mix, with down-to-earth practicality and
stability in Taurus, while Pisces is more idealistic and compassionate.
Instead of challenging, both are likely to learn from each other.

• Taurus and Aries are a combination that either attracts or repels, with fast-
moving Aries pushing Taurus into action and Taurus calming down the
impulsive Aries.

GEMINI IN LOVE
Gemini in love is fast, flirtatious, and sociable and needs intellectual
stimulation to the point where they often see their love as their best friend—
this just means there is less emphasis on the physical side of a relationship.
They are curious and fantastic listeners, which tends to charm everyone
they meet.

Romantic Combinations
• Gemini and Gemini are a match that really needs some practical earth in

the chart of at least one person. It will be a fun and restless intellectual
relationship that can be unstable, but the friendship factor is high.

• Gemini and Cancer definitely need compromise between sociability and
privacy and between the lighthearted and the sensitive. The mix of
curiosity, fun, and emotional security can blend well with awareness.

• Gemini and Leo are a partnership that leads a life full of fun, affection,
and probably parties. They complement each other in that Leo brings
some structure and Gemini brings more flexibility.

• Gemini and Virgo are both signs ruled by Mercury and this means that
both are adaptable and communicate well. Virgo brings practicality and
Gemini helps Virgo lighten up a little.



• Gemini and Libra are a combination that matches well and the pair are
likely to be out a lot, exploring new experiences and people and sharing
ideas all the time.

• Gemini and Scorpio are a mix of depth, privacy, lightness, and openness
that takes a lot of adjustment to each other. As always, it can work if
Gemini allows Scorpio alone time often and if Scorpio develops a more
playful side some of the time.

• Gemini and Sagittarius are a pairing that has much in common. They both
like to explore intellectually and to debate, and both have great senses of
humor. It’s a light and playful relationship.

• Gemini and Capricorn need some mutual respect and understanding to
work, as Capricorn is serious and Gemini really isn’t. As always, this can
work if Gemini is able to bring a sense of playfulness to Capricorn and
Capricorn can bring needed grounding to Gemini.

• Gemini and Aquarius are a real meeting of the minds, and the two will
never run out of ideas or things to talk about. Both are sociable and like
their independence.

• Gemini and Pisces will need compromise, as Gemini is an outgoing social
butterfly and Pisces is emotional, shy, and sensitive. However, both signs
are flexible, so the opportunity for each to adjust to the other’s needs is
there.

• Gemini and Aries are air and fire and the two elements work well
together. Geminis are the mimics of the zodiac and will likely match the
Aries passion, and Gemini’s mind will be fueled by the fire. Lots of fun!

• Gemini and Taurus aren't the easiest of partnerships, but that makes
things interesting. Taurus may find Gemini hard to keep up with and
Gemini will sometimes wish Taurus would be more sociable and less
stubborn, but if both can compromise, this will be a good relationship.

CANCER IN LOVE
Cancers in love are caring and sensitive, and they fall quickly and hard
when they fall in love. They are likely to commit quickly and give their all
to their partner, but their sensitivity can lead to emotional neediness when
they don’t feel loved in return. Cancer people will be the champion of their
loved ones, so treat them with the love they deserve.



Romantic Combinations
• Cancer and Cancer relationships are very loving, affectionate, and loyal,

with both sensing the other’s needs with ease. Both need security and can
be moody, but each understands that in the other, so it’s rarely a problem.

• Cancer and Leo are a very loving and passionate combination, especially
if the Cancer person can remember to shower the Leo with praise as well
as love and if Leo can temper any extravagance a little.

• Cancer and Virgo are a patient, grounded, and loyal match. The two signs
understand each other very well and the earthy Virgo has patience with
Cancer moods. Both signs are generally homebodies and conservative
financially.

• Cancer and Libra pairings can have difficulties if the Cancer person
doesn’t understand the Libra need to be around other people and if the
Libra doesn’t make an effort to meet the Cancer’s emotional needs. When
they can do this, they can both enjoy new ways of being.

• Cancer and Scorpio are a deep and emotionally fulfilling pairing with an
intuitive connection to each other. Scorpios do need more alone time than
Cancer but it’s rarely a problem.

• Cancer and Sagittarius partners can have difficulties, since Sagittarius is a
free spirit and Cancer needs security. However, Sagittarians are usually
deeply committed once they really fall in love, so that alone can mean
this will work with compromises.

• Cancer and Capricorn are a good relationship in terms of loyalty and
security, but the Capricorn can be a little too emotionally cool at times, so
if they learn to show a little affection it will go a long way.

• Cancer and Aquarius are a mix of emotional needs and objective thought,
which can be unsatisfying unless both can recognize the different needs
in each other.

• Cancer and Pisces are a wonderful match because they have an almost
psychic connection and are both caring and affectionate. Cancer is the
better of the two with money and the two will love being together in their
own world at home.

• Cancer and Aries can work well together if Aries is focused on outer-
world matters while Cancer is more focused on the home and family. If



the Aries partner can take time to show some affection, this relationship
will work even more successfully.

• Cancer and Taurus are another loyal and affectionate pairing, and both are
focused on home, family, and financial security. They will fulfill each
other’s needs well.

• Cancer and Gemini are a good partnership if Cancer can be accepting of
Gemini’s lighthearted, fun, and flirtatious nature and if Gemini can turn
that fun attention to their partner more often than to others.

Compatibility Isn’t Just Your Sun Sign
I give a brief overview of the compatibility of different signs here,
based primarily on sun signs, but there are other ways to look at chart
compatibility, such as taking into account the following elements.

Day energies tend to have an easier time understanding each other,
which means fire and air signs: Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius,
and Aquarius. They will generally have lively, sociable, and
adventurous relationships, with the main roadblocks being practicality
and emotional connection.

Similarly, night energies, Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio,
Capricorn, and Pisces, are more compatible in general and enjoy stable,
productive, and bonded relationships, with the main roadblocks being
lack of excitement, spontaneity, and fun.

This same principle can be applied to astrological chart connections
between any planetary connections, as well as connections between the
angles in the two birth charts.

LEO IN LOVE
Leo in love is exciting and openhearted as long as they are feeling loved in
return. They make wonderful caring partners and are also good parents.
Because they are so openhearted, however, they are easily hurt if they aren’t
with someone who showers them with love and attention.

Romantic Combinations



• Leo and Leo are lovely together as long as neither tries to rule over the
other and they both shower each other with love, compliments, and
attention. If they do that, then this is a really joyful combination.

• Leo and Virgo can be a good match, with a good mix of Leo fun and
Virgo stability, as long as Virgo loosens up a little and Leo doesn’t try to
rule over the analytical Virgo.

• Leo and Libra will usually make an attractive and charming couple who
enjoy a good social life together. If they give each other enough attention,
they will continue to be happy.

• Leo and Scorpio are two stubborn and powerful signs who both enjoy a
good dramatic fight and are both loyal. Surprisingly, this often works
well even though it’s very intense.

• Leo and Sagittarius are a very fun and energetic partnership with some
drama thrown in. Sagittarians may have to try and temper their notably
blunt tongue if they don’t want to bruise the Leo pride, but overall it’s a
great match.

• Leo and Capricorn can be a good team that grows in strength over time.
Their strengths balance each other well and they each can inspire the
other to reach for mutual goals.

• Leo and Aquarius are another lively and exciting partnership. Leos
require a lot of attention, however, and Aquarius is often a little too
detached and in their head to give enough. If Aquarius can learn to drop
compliments, then this will work well.

• Leo and Pisces can be a good relationship if Leo takes the benevolent and
caring ruler approach to the sensitive Pisces, rather than expecting them
to stand up for themselves.

• Leo and Aries are a really good but fiery partnership and may have some
big fights, but they will share plenty of laughter, too. Aries’s directness
can upset Leo’s tender heart at times.

• Leo and Taurus can be a wonderful pairing if the two can compromise
between the Taurus’s need for stability and a solid home and the Leo’s
outgoing passionate nature and risk-taking tendencies.

• Leo and Gemini are an exciting and lively match. Both are quite dramatic
and bold and both are sociable and flirtatious, but Gemini will have to
make sure some attention is kept on Leo so that their pride isn’t hurt.



• Leo and Cancer are a good partnership if Cancer uses positive
reinforcement with the Leo partner rather than criticism, because Leo
tends to return the love and appreciation shown to them.

VIRGO IN LOVE
Virgos in love are the intellectual lovers of the zodiac and approach love
cautiously and conservatively. They love to be with someone who can hold
an intelligent conversation but are often drawn to a more outgoing and
direct partner who will make the first move. They prefer commitment and
will show their affection through acts of service rather than flowery words
or lots of touch.

Romantic Combinations
• Virgo and Virgo can work if both partners commit to leaving work behind

on a regular basis. The two are so in sync that it could be an “all work
and no play” relationship without that commitment.

• Virgo and Libra can be a good mix of serious and frivolous if they can
both be accepting of the other’s approach. The good thing is that
communication is a skill both excel at, so talking out differences will
help.

• Virgo and Scorpio are a compatible pairing if Virgo doesn’t try to
logically analyze deep-feeling Scorpio and accepts that they have an
innate and quiet self-confidence and spend a lot of time in silence when
comfortable with a person.

• Virgo and Sagittarius are a meeting of the minds but both come from
different approaches, with Virgo being more introverted and reserved and
Sagittarius more outgoing and carefree. If the two can meet in the middle,
this pairing will work.

• Virgo and Capricorn are two earth signs and are very well matched. The
two understand and complement each other very well.

• Virgo and Aquarius will enjoy each other intellectually but Virgo may
struggle with the Aquarian impracticality, though the mix of imagination
and practicality can work.

• Virgo and Pisces are a challenging mix of practicality and idealistic
dreaming that can only work if the two compromise, with Pisces trying to



be slightly less sensitive and Virgo trying to be more so.
• Virgo and Aries will work if Virgo lets Aries be the leading light and if

Aries lets Virgo take care of practical details and realizes they just enjoy
doing them and aren’t trying to control.

• Virgo and Taurus share a sense of responsibility and the desire to be
productive and reliable, making for a generally stable and harmonious
relationship, with Taurus bringing more sensuality and Virgo bringing a
great sense of humor.

• Virgo and Gemini are a pairing with a high level of intellectual
compatibility, with Virgo being more practical and Gemini being more
sociable and sometimes frivolous. Talking things through will always
help these two.

• Virgo and Cancer are a very compatible match, with both being more
introverted and loyal. These two usually have a very intuitive
understanding of each other.

• Virgo and Leo can work if Virgo tries not to puncture Leo’s pride with
criticism and Leo tries not to be domineering.

LIBRA IN LOVE
Libras love to love and be in love. They will be very affectionate and
complimentary, and they love to receive the same in return. They are,
however, quite picky about whom they are in relationships with and are not
comfortable with partners who are insecure or not visually attractive.

Romantic Combinations
• Libra and Libra are a well-matched combination that may at times lack a

little passion because it’s so harmonious and based on mental
compatibility.

• Libra and Scorpio have a lot of initial attraction, but Scorpio’s emotional
depth and Libran sociability can bring contention in a long-term
relationship. The two may be a puzzle to each other, but communication
can bridge the gap.

• Libra and Sagittarius are a fun and optimistic partnership with a similar
sense of humor, which will help move beyond any differences in



approach, such as the Sagittarius foot-in-mouth syndrome and Libran
diplomacy.

• Libra and Capricorn are a stable match, with Capricorn focused on work
first and Libra on relationship first, which complement each other well.

• Libra and Aquarius are a good match that has a lot in common and will be
a partnership with a strong friendship element.

• Libra and Pisces are a creative and idealistic partnership that can lack the
emotional connection that Pisces needs. If that can be resolved, then this
can work well.

• Libra and Aries are opposite signs and have very different approaches,
with Libra being all about teamwork and Aries being an individualist. If
Aries can try to compromise a little and Libra lets Aries take the lead
now and then, it will work well.

• Libra and Taurus share a lot of Venusian traits, as both are ruled by
Venus. They share a love of harmony and luxury, for example. Both
value loyalty and will be good together if Libra can tolerate the Taurus
pessimism and if Taurus can know that Libra’s flirtatious nature is innate.

• Libra and Gemini are an excellent partnership, with only indecision being
an occasional issue for both. Both love to converse and be sociable, so
they will have a lot of fun together.

• Libra and Cancer tend to have a few challenges, with Cancer needing
emotional closeness and Libra being lighter and needing more social
interaction. Their mutual loyalty can help them compromise well.

• Libra and Leo are a charming partnership, with both being affectionate,
playful, and sociable—there is a possibility that they might have a little
too much fun spending money together.

• Libra and Virgo are often seemingly at odds, with Libra being relaxed,
carefree, and sociable and Virgo being productive, serious, and reserved,
but this pairing actually complements and works well together.

SCORPIO IN LOVE
Scorpio in love is intense and almost obsessive, as they throw everything
they have into relationships and are devoted and loyal and desire deep
intimacy. They do need their alone time despite the need for such intimacy,
and their feelings run so deep that they find it difficult to share them.



Romantic Combinations
• Scorpio and Scorpio are an unbelievably powerful, intense, and dramatic

combination that can bring out the best or worst in each other, or both at
different times. If the two merge well, then they will last for their
lifetimes.

• Scorpio and Sagittarius are diametrically different and will have to work
to make what can be a powerful initial attraction succeed, with Scorpio
lessening their private and serious side and Sagittarius developing some
of the same.

• Scorpio and Capricorn are a well-matched pairing, as both are hard
workers and reserved and value security. They each bring complementary
strengths to the relationship.

• Scorpio and Aquarius are not always destined for long-term connections
or harmonious ones without a lot of compromise, despite a strong
attraction. The intensity of Scorpio and the detachment of Aquarius can
cause conflict but with work to resolve differences, it can work.

• Scorpio and Pisces are a loyal and emotionally bonded partnership, even
though Pisces doesn’t always love Scorpio’s tendency to be more
confrontational. Both are spiritually and romantically inclined and will
give to the other willingly.

• Scorpio and Aries both like to be in control, but there is a lot of passion
between the two. Both are likely to enjoy the intensity and with a little
communication, it can work.

• Scorpio and Taurus are in many ways perfect for each other, as Taurus’s
more relaxed style will complement Scorpio’s intensity, and both have
similar values.

• Scorpio and Gemini are an interesting mix of energies, with Scorpio
being deep and Gemini liking to keep things light. Each can intrigue the
other enough to keep exploring how to work together and they often do
find a way to do so.

• Scorpio and Cancer are both deeply emotional, sensitive, and also
possessive, which actually works here, as both feel secure in this pairing.

• Scorpio and Leo make for a very passionate and dramatic relationship but
will find it hard to communicate without clashing. However, both will
often enjoy this high-intensity match and that will keep them interested.



• Scorpio and Virgo are a complementary match and work well together.
Both enjoy alone time and can quite easily build mutual trust.

• Scorpio and Libra speak and live at cross-purposes but have an attraction
to each other in spite of that. Scorpio’s privacy and intensity will confuse
the lighthearted Libra, and the sociability of Libra will bring out
Scorpio’s possessiveness, but communication and compromise can help.

SAGITTARIUS IN LOVE
Sagittarius in love is high energy and filled with enthusiasm and fun.
Sagittarius is often said to be slow to commit, but that’s only because they
are exploring to find someone who can keep their interest. When they do
fall in love, they are usually extremely loyal. They are most attracted to
those with ambition and drive.

Romantic Combinations
• Sagittarius and Sagittarius are a fun, passionate, and exploratory

partnership. They both love to travel and find new experiences and do so
with zest. Practicality and emotional connection can cause some issues.

• Sagittarius and Capricorn can be a good connection because the
Capricorn practicality can ground the excesses of Sagittarius, while the
Sagittarius partner will appreciate the ambition of Capricorn.

• Sagittarius and Aquarius are a visionary combination, with both being
goal-oriented and willing to explore new ideas. This is a fun
combination.

• Sagittarius and Pisces are a pairing where there is attraction, but some
compromises must be made. A balance needs to be sought between the
outgoing, spontaneous Sagittarius energy and the reserved and shy Pisces
energy, but it can work over time.

• Sagittarius and Aries have a lot in common, and this will be a high-energy
team that will enjoy activities together. Very adventurous with some
volatility due to Sagittarius bluntness and the Aries need to always lead,
but overall a good match.

• Sagittarius and Taurus have some challenges to overcome, as the
passivity and stability of Taurus can frustrate energetic Sagittarius.
However, Taurus brings grounding and routine to the sometimes flighty



Sagittarius, and Sagittarius brings some spontaneity and optimism into
the mix.

• Sagittarius and Gemini are a combination that can have a lot of fun
together, though it can be a little unstable since both enjoy change. They
both like to explore intellectually and to debate, and both have great
senses of humor. It’s a light and playful relationship.

• Sagittarius and Cancer have some challenges because of the mix of
sensitive, emotional Cancer and blunt and fairly insensitive but fun
Sagittarius. Both are quite strong-willed though, so if the attraction is
there, they will tend to work things out.

• Sagittarius and Leo are a wild, passionate, and fun pairing with the
potential to last a lifetime, especially if Sagittarius can rein in the brutal
honesty that can hurt the Leo pride.

• Sagittarius and Virgo are a strange mix of intellectual compatibility and
emotional differences, because Virgo is reserved and introverted,
generally, and Sagittarius is outgoing. This match can improve with time.

• Sagittarius and Libra are a partnership full of fun and social excitement. If
Libra can get over the fact that Sagittarius cares little about appearances,
this will work well.

• Sagittarius and Scorpio can be challenging, because Sagittarius likes
freedom and lacks the emotional intensity of Scorpio. The two will find
each other fascinating, however, so differences can be worked out over
time.

CAPRICORN IN LOVE
Capricorns are slow to fall in love, preferring to be friends first—but once
things develop, they are stable and dedicated to creating a life with their
partner. They really need someone who understands their dedication to
building a secure financial foundation and, usually, a career. They are not
always emotionally warm, especially early in relationships.

Romantic Combinations
• Capricorn and Capricorn work really well together, as both share

ambition, a similar work ethic, and a reserved nature. This has potential
to be a stable and long-lasting relationship.



• Capricorn and Aquarius can face challenges, because Capricorn likes
solid goals and plans and Aquarius is very free-spirited and prefers long-
term goals without a definite plan to get there. Both are determined,
however, and that can help reach a compromise.

• Capricorn and Pisces are a well-matched partnership, as Capricorn brings
the practicality and Pisces brings the creative and emotional support.

• Capricorn and Aries aren't the easiest combination since Capricorn is a
patient builder and loves stability and Aries likes dynamic action and is
impulsive, but the pair can be a highly successful one if neither tries to
control the other.

• Capricorn and Taurus are a fabulous partnership with shared values in
most areas of life, and that combines Capricorn ambition and Taurus
homebody tendencies well. These two are very compatible.

• Capricorn and Gemini are a mix of reserved stability and unstable
sociability, which can mean differences. If the two can learn from each
other without criticism, they can meet in the middle and have mutual
respect and understanding.

• Capricorn and Cancer are a mixed bag. It can be a loyal partnership with
a shared need for security and a stable home but Cancer needs a lot of
affection and Capricorn must consciously choose to show it. Meeting in
the middle is the key.

• Capricorn and Leo are both stubborn, and if the attraction is there, that
means they will work at reconciling the fact that Capricorn is more
reserved and pessimistic and Leo is more outgoing and optimistic, with
each learning from the other.

• Capricorn and Virgo are a very grounded and reserved match with many
compatibilities. Both enjoy stability and like to work hard.

• Capricorn and Libra are a partnership with differences in outlook, with
Capricorn being stable, persevering, and a saver and Libra being an
extrovert and a spendthrift. These differences are not irreconcilable,
however.

• Capricorn and Scorpio are a good partnership where each brings out the
best in the other. Both have similar ways of working and goals that will
work together well.



• Capricorn and Sagittarius are a partnership where the differences can
complement each other in spite of what seem to be opposite approaches,
with Capricorn being cautious and Sagittarius being rash in everything
they approach.

Compatibility by Aspect
Aspects between planets in the two astrological charts in relationships
should also be taken into account. This, too, can be applied to aspects
between different planets and angles and not only sun signs.

The following applies in general—note that none are good or bad,
as those who challenge us in a relationship can push us to grow and
develop, as long as it’s a healthy challenge.

Planets in adjacent signs can have difficulty “seeing” each other, as
they differ by day and night, element, and modality.

Planets in signs that are sextile to each other are harmonious, as
they share day or night energy.

Planets in signs that are square to each other are more challenging,
because they are always day and night energy, though they share a
modality.

Planets in signs that are trine to each other are harmonious, because
they share the same element and day or night energy.

Planets in signs that are inconjunct to each other are more
challenging, because they are always day and night energy and they are
less compatible by element and modality.

Planets in opposing signs share a modality and are both either day
or night but are slightly less compatible by element, though the two are
usually able to complement their opposing strengths.

AQUARIUS IN LOVE
Aquarius in love is committed and very attentive, though not affectionate,
and it takes them a while to get to the point of commitment. Aquarians are
intellectuals and will want long talks about big ideas with their partner.
They have an innate self-confidence, which is very attractive to others.



Romantic Combinations
• Aquarius and Aquarius are both so in their heads and detached

emotionally that there is little emotional depth to the relationship.
However, they may also decide they are okay with being more friends
than anything else.

• Aquarius and Pisces are an unusual combination, with Aquarius being a
radical thinker and Pisces being intuitive and spiritual, and that can bring
challenges as the Pisces person may not have their emotional needs met.
Both are deeply humanitarian, however, and that can bring them together.

• Aquarius and Aries will find each other stimulating and exciting and are a
good match that looks optimistically to the future. They will share a great
sense of humor.

• Aquarius and Taurus are an unlikely match with many differences, but
both have staying power, which can make for a stimulating relationship
that can pull them together.

• Aquarius and Gemini are a real meeting of the minds and a very dynamic
pairing. Their partnership will be full of variety, fun, and a lively social
life.

• Aquarius and Cancer are likely to find that the Aquarian detached
emotional state doesn’t fulfill the needs of the emotionally needy Cancer
person. This means the two will have to communicate often about their
differences to make it work long-term.

• Aquarius and Leo don’t have a lot in common but that won’t stop them
finding this relationship stimulating and exciting, which can go a long
way toward meeting in the middle.

• Aquarius and Virgo are an intellectual pairing with different strengths that
can complement each other, with Virgo learning to embrace a little chaos
and Aquarius learning to be a little more organized.

• Aquarius and Libra are a lovely match, with both enjoying a good social
life and mental stimulation.

• Aquarius and Scorpio are a difficult and intense match that can work if
the Aquarius partner learns to show some affection and the Scorpio
learns to trust their partner.

• Aquarius and Sagittarius are a fun match and the two will enjoy a lot of
adventures together.



• Aquarius and Capricorn are a less easy combination that can work if both
use their mutual determination to iron out differences, with the main one
being that Capricorn likes stability and security, and these are not
priorities for the Aquarian.

PISCES IN LOVE
Pisces in love seeks a highly spiritual and intuitive connection in love. They
love to love their partner and to make them feel like the most special person
in the world, because they are to the Piscean. They are a gentle and
openhearted soul, which can lead to them getting hurt easily by less
sensitive people.

Romantic Combinations
• Pisces and Pisces are such a good match that they may never get anything

practical done in their dream world of togetherness.
• Pisces and Aries can work if Aries learns some patience around their

dreamy partner. If they do, Pisces will be incredibly supportive.
• Pisces and Taurus are a good match, as both share a love of romance and

loyalty, with Taurus providing grounding and Pisces imagination in their
lives.

• Pisces and Gemini are both very adaptable, and that may, with
communication, help overcome some fairly big differences of approach.
Pisces wants major emotional connection and Gemini likes to keep it
light.

• Pisces and Cancer are a very loving and romantic partnership—they work
together in almost psychic compatibility.

• Pisces and Leo have a lot of potential as a match if Leo soaks up the love
and admiration of Pisces, avoids any desire to control them, and works to
understand their sensitive nature.

• Pisces and Virgo are opposing signs and can either attract or repel. The
key is integration of Pisces’s dreaminess and romantic nature and the
practicality of Virgo.

• Pisces and Libra are a very creative and loving match if the two can
overcome the Libran need to be social and the Pisces need to stay home
more.



• Pisces and Scorpio are an amazing match with a deep emotional
connection, which brings a strong sense of security to these two sensitive
signs.

• Pisces and Sagittarius are both very flexible and love to focus on
philosophical areas of faith and belief. They will match if they can
balance their introvert and extrovert natures.

• Pisces and Capricorn are a fabulous mix of common sense and
dreaminess that blends well together.

• Pisces and Aquarius can work well together if they can compromise over
the Aquarian’s detached emotional style and Pisces’s emotional
sensitivity.

Astrology is an endlessly fascinating subject where there is always more
to learn. With careful use of this book you will be able to understand your
astrological chart in far more depth, using a more inclusive approach and
language.






KEY TAKEAWAYS AND ASTROLOGICAL
APPENDICES



CHAPTER THIRTEEN

Conclusion
MY HOPE IS that this book has given you a new appreciation for and a
deeper understanding of key areas within astrology, as well as a new

way to see astrology in nonbinary terms.
Traditionally, gendered astrological terms are based on patriarchal

myths and archetypes conforming to the binary. A prime example of this is
the planet Saturn. In mythology, Saturn was the god of agriculture, wealth,
and generation, and Saturn’s reign was depicted as a time of abundance and
peace. All of these characteristics are very yin, or feminine, yet Saturn has
been portrayed in much of astrology as a very masculine energy.

Another example: The symbol that represents Capricorn, the sea goat, is
often portrayed as just the goat, which is more yang, and leaves out the very
yin fish tail (the “sea” part of “sea goat”).

If that’s confusing, and it is, I suggest it is because patriarchal society
has valued the masculine and devalued the feminine to the point that much
of the language used by traditional interpretations of astrology has become
binary and slanted. In the myths upon which our astrological interpretations
are based, female goddesses were generally portrayed as evil, vengeful
troublemakers or as vapid, insipid troublemakers, whereas the male gods
were usually portrayed as either heroes or leaders. I am not entirely
convinced the myths began that way, and there are many efforts to reclaim a
more nuanced portrayal.

One thing I know for sure is that myths are stories created to represent
parts of human nature. After thousands of years living under a patriarchal
system, we can see how the binary is reflected in our storytelling. Our
human need for certainty and definition has caused us to see finiteness and
polarity where there may, in reality, be connection and integration.

It’s perhaps time, therefore, to consider changing the language
completely so that the portrayal of masculine as good and light and the
feminine as evil and dark disappear. New language takes into account that
there are good and bad qualities in both the masculine and the feminine and
leaves room to define a person as more than just one or the other.



Using this new language, you can look at an astrological chart and see a
more holistic view of yourself as an individual with different traits that are
neither “good” nor “bad,” just different.

With the advent of modern astrology, astrologers have been moving
away from the use of “good” and “bad,” but we need to go further and
move away from using the terms “masculine” and “feminine.” This opens
us up to a whole new understanding of the chart.

This book, therefore, asks you to step into a more creative and
imaginative space, to feel the webs of connectivity that thread through all
living things, including the universe. To feel the pulse, the inhale and exhale
of all that is in its multiplicity and nonlinearity. This book invites you to
feel the entanglement rather than the separateness that we have approached
the astrological spaces with for millennia.

The last astrological ages, Pisces and Aries, have been patriarchal in
nature and have valued day energy over night. The language used in all
myths and subjects like astrology has reflected that nature, valuing
outgoing, “doing” energy over receptive and intuitive energy.

No one knows what the astrological age of Aquarius will bring, but
Aquarius is a sign that represents entanglement and connectivity. Its symbol
represents waves, perhaps quantum wave theory, waves of spirit or energy,
and the sign’s corulers, Saturn and Uranus, represent a curious mix of the
ancient and the ultramodern, the conservative and the innovative. Aquarius
is also group energy, another form of connectivity, and represents
humanitarian and human rights and causes. Aquarius is visionary and
futuristic.

As we stand in the doorway of the new astrological age, it is fitting that
we begin to look at the language of astrology and how we approach
astrology in a new way, a more inclusive and entangled way. The
movements and cycles of the planets are unchanged, of course, but as I have
said throughout this book, it’s our perceptions and language that must
change. In Greek philosophy, the concept behind Logos (Greek for “word”)
is the divine principle that permeates an orderly universe. This suggests that
language has long been used to make sense of that which we don’t
understand. Therefore, we must now think differently and use different
language to move into the new age.

This book has been your invitation to think differently and begin to feel
the living universe within you, an invitation to inhabit the energies of both



day and night within you. This book is for everyone.



GLOSSARY OF TERMS
AIR SIGNS: Gemini, Libra, Aquarius
ANGLES: Ascendant (ASC), descendant (DSC), midheaven (MC), and imum
coeli (IC), which refer to the cusps of the first, seventh, 10th, and fourth
houses, respectively
ASCENDANT (ASC): The cusp of the first house, also known as the rising sign;
the point that is rising on the eastern horizon at the moment and place of
birth
ASPECTS: Angular relationships between points in the natal chart
ASTEROIDS: Small rocky objects orbiting the Sun
CARDINAL SIGNS: Aries, Cancer, Libra, Capricorn
CUSP: The beginning of a house in the natal chart or where one sign ends
and another begins
DECANS: Subdivisions of each astrological sign into 10° increments
DESCENDANT: Cusp of the seventh house in the natal chart, directly opposite
the ascendant
DOMINION: A sign in which a planet is at its strongest
EARTH SIGNS: Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn
ECLIPTIC: An imaginary line on the sky that marks the annual path of the
Sun, a projection of the Earth’s orbit that also marks the line along which
eclipses occur
ELEMENTS: Fire, earth, air, and water
FIRE SIGNS: Aries, Leo, Sagittarius
FIXED SIGNS: Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, Aquarius
GLYPHS: Symbols used for the astrological signs, planets, luminaries, and
aspects



HEMISPHERE: A plane or line that splits the celestial sphere in half, either
horizontally or vertically
HOUSES: The 12 divisions of a natal chart, each ruling over different areas of
life
LUMINARIES: The Sun and the Moon
MIDHEAVEN: The cusp of the 10th house of the natal chart, the highest point
in the zodiac at the moment of birth, and the most public area of the chart
MUTABLE SIGNS: Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, Pisces
MUTUAL RECEPTION: When two planets each occupy the sign the other rules
NODES: The two points at which the Moon, or another planet, crosses the
ecliptic
ORB: Number of degrees from exact between aspect degrees
PERSONAL PLANETS: Inner planets and luminaries that have a more direct
effect on the personality—the Sun, the Moon, Mercury, Venus, and Mars
PLANETARY RULERS: The planets that rule each sign
RETROGRADE: Apparent backward motion of a planet from Earth’s
perspective
SUN SIGN: The sign in which the Sun is at birth
TRANSIT: Ongoing movement of the planetary bodies in relationship to the
horoscope
WATER SIGNS: Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces



ASTROLOGICAL TABLES
SUN TABLE
SIGN SYMBOL APPROX. RULING PLANETS ENERGY

DATES
Aries Mar 21–Apr 20 Mars Day/Inhale
Taurus Apr 21–May 20 Venus Night/Exhale
Gemini May 21–June 20 Mercury Day/Inhale
Cancer June 21–Jul 20 Moon Night/Exhale
Leo Jul 21–Aug 20 Sun Day/Inhale

Virgo Aug 21–Sept 20 Mercury Night/Exhale
Libra Sept 21–Oct 20 Venus Day/Inhale
Scorpio Oct 21–Nov 22 Mars—Traditional Pluto— Modern Night/Exhale
Sagittarius Nov 21–Dec 20 Jupiter Day/Inhale
Capricorn Dec 21–Jan 20 Saturn Night/Exhale
Aquarius Jan 21–Feb 20 Saturn—Traditional Uranus— Day/Inhale

Modern
Pisces Feb 21–Mar 20 Jupiter—Traditional Neptune— Night/Exhale

Modern



TABLE OF MAJOR ASPECTS
PLANET IN LOOK FOR LOOK FOR LOOK FOR LOOK FOR
THIS SIGN OPPOSITIONS SQUARES IN…. SEXTILES IN…. TRINES IN….

IN….
Aries Libra Cancer, Gemini, Aquarius Leo, Sagittarius

Capricorn
Taurus Scorpio Leo, Aquarius Cancer, Pisces Virgo,

Capricorn
Gemini Sagittarius Virgo, Pisces Leo, Aries Libra, Aquarius
Cancer Capricorn Aries, Libra Virgo, Taurus Scorpio, Pisces
Leo Aquarius Taurus, Scorpio Gemini, Libra Aries,

Sagittarius
Virgo Pisces Gemini, Cancer, Scorpio Taurus,

Sagittarius Capricorn
Libra Aries Cancer, Leo, Sagittarius Gemini,

Capricorn Aquarius
Scorpio Taurus Leo, Aquarius Virgo, Capricorn Cancer, Pisces
Sagittarius Gemini Virgo, Pisces Libra, Aquarius Aries, Leo
Capricorn Cancer Aries, Libra Scorpio, Pisces Taurus, Virgo
Aquarius Leo Taurus, Scorpio Aries, Sagittarius Gemini, Libra
Pisces Virgo Gemini, Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio

Sagittarius Capricorn



PLANETARY TABLE
SIGN RULED EXALTED DETRIMENT FALL DAY OR NIGHT

Sun Leo Aries Aquarius Libra Day
Moon Cancer Taurus Capricorn Scorpio Night
Mercury Gemini and Virgo Virgo Sagittarius and Pisces Gemini—Day Virgo

Pisces —Night
Venus Taurus and Libra Pisces Aries and Virgo Taurus—Night Libra

Scorpio —Day
Mars Aries and Scorpio Capricorn Libra and Cancer Aries—Day Scorpio

Taurus —Night
Jupiter Sagittarius and Cancer Gemini and Capricorn Sagittarius—Day

Pisces Virgo Pisces—Night
Saturn Capricorn and Libra Cancer Aries Capricorn—Night

Aquarius Aquarius—Day
Uranus Aquarius Scorpio Leo Taurus Day
Neptune Pisces Cancer Virgo Capricorn Night
Pluto Scorpio Leo Taurus Aquarius Night



TABLE OF DECANS
SIGN FIRST DECAN 0–9° SECOND DECAN 10–19° THIRD DECAN 20–29°
Aries Mars/Aries Sun/Leo Jupiter/Sagittarius
Taurus Venus/Taurus Mercury/Virgo Saturn/Capricorn
Gemini Mercury/Gemini Venus/Libra Saturn and

Uranus/Aquarius
Cancer Moon/Cancer Mars and Pluto/Scorpio Jupiter and

Neptune/Pisces
Leo Sun/Leo Jupiter/Sagittarius Mars/Aries
Virgo Mercury/Virgo Saturn/Capricorn Venus/Taurus
Libra Venus/Libra Saturn and Mercury/Gemini

Uranus/Aquarius
Scorpio Mars and Pluto/Scorpio Jupiter and Moon/Cancer

Neptune/Pisces
Sagittarius Jupiter/Sagittarius Mars/Aries Sun/Leo
Capricorn Saturn/Capricorn Venus/Taurus Mercury/Virgo
Aquarius Saturn and Mercury/Gemini Venus/Libra

Uranus/Aquarius
Pisces Jupiter and Moon/Cancer Mars and Pluto/Scorpio

Neptune/Pisces



FURTHER READING
ASTROLOGY FOR THE SOUL by Jan Spiller (Bantam, 2009)
THE SECRET LANGUAGE OF BIRTHDAYS: Your Complete Personology Guide
for Each Day of the Year by Gary Goldschneider and Joost Elffers (Avery,
2013)
THE INNER SKY: How to Make Wiser Choices for a More Fulfilling Life by
Steven Forrest (Seven Paws Press, 2012)
MODERN ASTROLOGY: Harness the Stars to Discover Your Soul’s True
Purpose by Louise Edington (Althea Press, 2018)
MYSTERIES OF THE DARK MOON: The Healing Power of the Dark Goddess by
Demetra George (Harper Collins, 1992)

To create a free natal chart online:
ALABE.COM/FREECHART
ASTRO.CAFEASTROLOGY.COM/NATAL.PHP
ASTRO.COM

To find your ascendant:
ASTRO.COM

Free astrology apps:
TIME NOMAD
TIMEPASSAGES



ABOUT THE AUTHOR

LOUISE EDINGTON has been studying and practicing astrology for 30
years and writes daily astrology posts that guide readers through their lives.
She enjoys all aspects of professional astrology, but her main passion is
helping clients regain a deep connection with the cycles of the universe so
that they find deep acceptance and self-awareness. Louise provides
astrological counseling, astrology classes, and writing and also offers
support through a Cosmic Membership Community. You can learn more
about her services at louiseedington.com. Louise’s first book, Modern
Astrology: Harness the Stars to Discover Your Soul’s True Purpose, is
available on Amazon.