INDIAN COUNCIL OF 

ASTROLOGICAL SCIENCES 

JYOTISH PRAVEEN 

Predictive Astrology 
Book 1 



First edition : 1000 copies Octobe , 1993 

Second edition : 1000 copies August, 1996 

© Bhartiya Prachya Evam Sanatan Vigyan Sansthan, 

New Delhi. 

Author : 

M. N. Kedar 
B.A., S.A.S., D.I.M, Retd. Sr. A.O., Jyotish Vachaspati, Jyotisha 
Pracharya, Vice-President Indian Council of Astrological 
Sciences. 

Assisted by : 

Kusum Vashistha 
Jyotish Visharada, Jyotisha Kovid and Faculty member. 

Published by: 

Bhartiya Prachya Evam Sanatan Vigyan Sansthan 
Regs. Office ; 4649/21, Darya Ganj, New Delhi - 110002. 

Typeset by: 

KVR Computers 
3071, Pratap Street, Darya Ganj, 
New Delhi - 110002. Phone : 3277090 

Printed by ; 



PREFACE 

In 1987, Astrology classes were started by Delhi chapter I of 
Indian Council of Astrological Sciences (Regd.) Madras in 
colloboration with Bhartiya Vidya Bhawan, Delhi. Dr. B.V. 
Raman is the founder president of the council. I was the 
chairman of Delhi Chapter -I. I feel very happy as the Almighty 
God gave me a chance to repay the debt by imparting knowledge 
of Astrology to others and also a chance to learn the divine 
science through teaching. 

In 1993, the Delhi chapter I had suffered a severe blow of 
pride, greed for money, fame and jealousy. The Delhi chapter 
1 was constrained to leave Bhartiya Vidya Bhawan and started 
its own classes in Karol Bagh, Delhi. With the grace of God, 
the Delhi Chapter is successfully conducting Astrological classes 
for Jyotisha Praveena and Jyotisha Visharada at two centres 
(1) Shri Lakshmi Mahavidyala, Faiz Road, Karol Bagh Terminal 
(2) Virmani Public School, Roop Nagar, Delhi (University 
area). 

These lessons have been written to make available an 
opportunity to the students of astrology to learn some primary 
and basic principles of Astrology. This will serve only as an 
introduction to the preditive astrology {Praveshika). The next 
part of the book will cover portions on "How to assimilate 
the knowledge gained from this part and make use of it for 
judgement of a horoscope". The major attempt to learn advanced 
technique of predictive astrology will be made in future 
publications. 



The first edition was published in October, 1993. Till then 
I had six years experience of teaching astrology. These books 
reached in the hands of astrologers all over the country and 
abroad. Everyone has praised these books. Requests for more 
such books on Astrology are also received. 

M.N.Kedar 



C^CONTENTS^) 

Page 

Chapter 1 

SIGNS OF ZODIAC AND PLANETS 

Nakshatras 2 
Signs and their Lords 3 
Motion of the Planet 4 
Natural Benefic and Malefic Planets, 

Planetary Governances, Planetary Cabinet 
Planetary Dieties, Consonants and Vowels 5-7 

Characteristics of Planets 7-13 
Planets : Their Exaltation etc. 13-14 
Mooltrikona and Horoscope of Sri Adi Sankara 15 

Ucchabhilashi (also see table at page 37) 16 

Chapter 2 

SIGNS AND THEIR CHARACTERISTICS 

Nature of signs, Tatwas 19 
Sex, Limbs of Kala Purusha 20 

Temperaments, Caste, Directions 21-22 
Diurnal and Nocturnal Signs Biped and Quadruped 23 

Charactristics of 12 Signs (Rashis) 25-27 

Chapter 3 

KARAKATWAS OF PLANETS AND HOUSES - PART I 

Karaka 29 
Karakatwas of 1 to 12 Houses 30 
Karkatwas/duties assigned to Planets 32-34 

Planets as Karakas for Houses 34-35 



v^itapitrr ^ 

AWASTHAS OF PLANETS 

Kinds of Awastha-Infant State etc. 36 
Table showing Exaltation, Debilitation, 

Mooltrikona and Own House 37 
Uchchabhilashi and Neechabhilashi 37 
Combust Planets, Relationship of Planets 38 
Table of Friendship, enimity. Temporal Relationship 39 
Compound Relationship, Effects of Relationship and 

the percentage thereof 40 
Nine Categories/Avasthas of Planets (Table) 42-43 

Conclusion/other Avasthas 45-46 

Chapter 5 

KARAKATWAS OF PLANETS AND THEIR HOUSES - 
PART II 

Char Karaka 48 
Atmakaraka, Sthir Karaka, Planets and their Karakatwas 48-50 
Karaka according to Karaka Planets and Bhava 50-51 
Karaka for 12 Houses 51 
Karakas (Special Karakas) from Houses 52 

Yoga Karaka Planets 52-53 

Chapter 6 

THEORIES OF BIRTH TIME RECTIFICATION 

Time of Birth 54 

Garbhdhan to delivery - The Importance of Moon 55 
To Find Nakshatra of Birth 56 
To Find Lagna at Birth 58 
Birth Time Recitification 60 
— Three Principles by learned Astrologers Sasthidas 60-61 
To Find Lagna from the Nakshatra in which Sun is posited 62 



i a Find Sex of rhe native from the birth chart 62 
Some of the effects of Planets and Houses 

helpful in fixing correct Ascendants 63 

— The most Correct Method to Rectify the Birth Chart 64-65 

C hapter 7 

DASHA AND ANTARDASHA CALCULATIONS 

How to read a Birth Chart 66-67 
General Synthesis of Horoscope Kendra Sthana (Squares) 

and Trikona Sthanas (Trines) 67-68 
Vishnu and Lakshmi Sthana 69 

types of Dashas given by Parashara 69-70 

How Vimshottari Dasha is Calculated 70-71 
Classical and Modern Method of Calculations 72-73 
Beginning of Nakshatra Division and Vimshottari Dasha Period 

assigned to each lord of Nakshatra 73-78 
Effects of Dasha 79 

Calculation of Sub-period (Antara) of the Mahadasha 80-82 

Chapter 8 

RESULTS OF ASCENDING SIGNS 

Ascendants Horoscopes 

Aries Alexender the Great 85 
Taurus Omar Khayyam 86 
Gemini, Cancer Marie Antoinette 87 
Leo, Virgo Guru Nanak, Harry Truman 88-89 
Libra Sri Chaitanya 90 

Scorpio Chitranjan Das 91 
Capricorn, Sagittarius Vivekanand, M.S. Golwalker 92,93 
Aquarius Sri Ramakrishna Paramhamsa 95 
Pisces 95 
Conclusion 96 



Chapter 9 

ASPECTS 

Type of Connection or Relation with Planets 97 
Effects of the Aspects 98 
Special Aspects 99 
Rahu and Ketu 99 

Table Showing full Aspect, Three-Fourth Aspect 101 
Extents of Aspect 101 
Some Very Good Aspect 102 
Aspects According to Western Astrology 103 
Practical Illustration Showing Relation, Aspects 104-105 

Effects of Conjunction, Aspect 106 



Chapter 1 

SIGNS OF ZODIAC AND PLANETS 

1.1(a) Hindu Astronomy considers Solar system with reference 
to its constituents, the nine planets and twenty seven stars 
(nakshatras or constellations). Our solar system (which is 
known to us) is only a fragment of the universe which has 
many other such solar systems. Out of many luminous bodies 
sighted in the skies, some are stars, yet some are planets (known 
as gralms). The stars (nakshatras or asterisms) have no movement. 
Planets move through the nakshatras (or asterisms) in the 
Zodiac (Bhachakra). 

1.1 (b) The Planets do not have the same meaning in astronomy 
and astrology. The Moon in astronomy reflects light from 
the Sun but in astrology it has been given the same rank as 
that of the Sun. Rahu and Ketu (the dragon's head and dragon's 
tail) are just the nodal points in astronomy. In astrology these 
are known as shadowy planets (chhaya grahas) Rahu and 
Ketu always remain exactly 180° apart from each other. Their 
positions are formed when the moon crosses the ecliptic from 
Northern latitude to Southern latitude and vice versa. 

1.1(c) The Zodiac (circle of 360°) has no begining or end,it 
is just a circle of light . To measure this circle an arbitrary 
point is taken into consideration which is the first point of 
Aries at zero degree of the first star Ashwini. 

The Zodiac of 360° if divided by 27 gives 13o20' beingmansions 
of each nakshatra. Each nakshatra is further divided into four 
parts called padas or charans measuring 3o20' each, which means 
that the Zodiac of 360° is divided into 108 parts measuring 
3o20' each. 



The names of nakshatras and their lords are given in the table 
below. Each planet is given the lordship of three nakshatras 
out of these twenty seven nakshatras. In addition to these 
twenty seven nakshatras there is Abhijit Nakshatra ranging 
from 276°40' to 280°53' 34". (The method of calculation is 

Take fourth pada of uttarashada Nakshatra and add 1/ 
15th of the Hl^ (measurement) of Sravana Nakshatra. This 
Nakbiiatra is used generally in Muhurta which will be discussed 
in Visharada course.) 

Nakshatras Lords 

1 Ahawini 10; Magha 19. Mula Ketu 

2 Bharani 11. Poorva Phalguni 20. Poorva Ashadha Venus 

3. Krittika 12. Uttara Phalguni 21. Uttara Ashadha Sun 

4, Rohini 13. Hasta 22. Shravana Moon 

5. Mrigashira 14. Chitra 23. Dhanishtha Mars 

6. Ardra 15. Swati 24. Satbhisha Rahu 

7. Punarvasu 16. Vishakha 25. Poorva Bhadra Pada Jupiter 

8, Pushya 17. Anuradha 26. Uttara Bhadra Pada Saturn 

9. Ashlesha 18. Jyeshtha 27. Revati Mercury 

1.1(d) Rashis : The Zodiac is also divided into twelve 
parts measuring 30° each which is known as Rashi or sign. 
We can also say that one Rashi covers mansion of 2 Vi 
Nakshatras ( 13o20' x 2 Vi = 30°) or 9 padas(9 x 3o20' = 30°). 

As we have already discussed in para 1.1(c) that 0° Ashwini 
(0° Aries) is taken as the first point of Zodiac. From the first 
point, the counting of the twelve Rashis of the Zodiac stars. 
The names of these twelve Rashis or signs and their Lords 

2 



(Planets owning these Rashis) are as under : 

Name of Rashis 

English Hindi Symbol Lords 

1. Aries Mesha T Mars 

2. Taurus Vrishabha Venus 

3. Gemini Mithuna I Mercury 

4. Cancer Karkata G Moon 

5. Leo Simha # Sun 

6. V irgo Kanya Mercury 

7. Libra Tula £1 Venus 

8. Scorpio Vrishchika m Mars 

9. Sagittarius Dhanu Jupiter 

10. Capricorn Makara Saturn 

11. Aquarius Kumbha Saturn 

12. Pisces Meena K Jupiter 

1.1(e) We all know that the earth takes twenty four hours 
to rotate on its axis and 365 days 6 hours to go round the 
Sun. Due to Earth's rotation on itsaxis, we get the phenomena 
Sunrise' and 'Sunset'. The revolution of the Earth round the 

sun gives 'Seasons'. To make it simple to understand, we 
say the Sun is moving round the Earth, and that sun rises 
in the east and sets in the west. Whatever be the Rashi, out 
of the twelve Rashis, that rises in the east at any particular 
place and time of an event (may be a birth of a native or any 
other event) is known as 'Ascendant', 'Lagna , 'Rising Sign', 
or Udayrashi. That Sign becomes the Ascendant. 

3 



1.1(f) The rate of motion of earth is 15° per hour 
(approximately), for the purpose of deciding birth Lagna i.e. 
it covers 360° in twenty four hours. Each sign rises in the 
east one by one and takes roughly two hours duration to 
pass through the eastern horizon. In this order the twelve 
Rashis take twenty four hours (a complete day). 

In astrology, predictions are made on the basis of planetary 
positions in the horoscope, according to their lordship, 
Karakatwas, and their rank in the planetary cabinet. The 
remedies are suggested taking into consideration, the different 
deities indicated by the planets and nakshatras. In prashna 
Shastra and matching of horoscopes, even the consonants 
and vowels are considered because they are also governed 
and owned by seven planets. Presently a discussion about 
them may appear to a beginner a futile and useless exercise 
but all combinations and yogas are formed on the basis of 
inter-relationship between different planets, in different Rashis, 
in different Nakshatras and their mutual distance and positions. 
Similarly the motion of the planets help in timing of events. 
Let us discuss them one by one. 

1.1(g) MOTION OF THE PLANETS 

We have discussed that the nakshatras are fixed in Zodiac 
and have no movement. The planets move in these nakshatras. 
The planets have their speed of motion. 

Planet Motion per day (approx.) 

Sun 1 degree 

Moon 13 to 15 degrees 

Mars 30 to 45 minutes 

Mercury 65 to 100 Minutes 

4 



Venus 62 to 82 minutes 

Jupiter 5 to 15 minutes 

Saturn 2 minutes 

Nodes 3 minutes 

With such different motions, a planet forms various aspects 
with others. These aspects of the planets on each other (through 
longitudinal distances) have great deal of utlity in Astrology. 

Planetary movements can be fully understood from 
astronomical literature (refer to the book on Astronomy Relevant 
to Astrology by Shri V.P. ]ain) and Samhitas (Narad Samhita, 
Garga Samhita, Vashishtha Samhita etc.) 

1.1(h) NATURAL BENEFIC AND MALEFIC PLANETS 

The seven planets own 12 signs, as shown in table in para 
1.1(d) ibid. Rahu and Ketu have no place of their own. But 
they give effect of the sign they occupy or the planets they 
are associated with. The detailed discussion will be taken 
up later on. Among these planets the sun, Saturn, Mars, 
decreasing Moon, Rahu and Ketu, afflicted Mercury are 
malefics. Jupiter, Venus, increasing Moon,well associated 
Mercury are benefics. 

Note 

(1) Decreasing Moon and increasing Moon are due to the 
Motion of Moon with respect to the position of the 
Sun. When Moon is ahead of Sun till it reaches 180 
degrees away, the Moon is increasing (called Shukla 
Paksha Moon or Waxing Moon). Beyond 180 degree 
to 0 degree (when it joins Sun) is the motion of Moon 
approaching Sun and is called decreasing Moon (called 
Krishna Paksha Moon or ^i)ui -q* waning Moon) 0 degree 
to 120 degree medium, 120 degree to 240 degree 

5 



auspicious (strong) and from 240 degrees to 0 degree 
she is bereft of strength. 

(2) According to Sage Parashar Mercury becomes malefic 
if he joins a malefic. If Waning Moon and Mercury 
are together, both are malefics. 

(3) According to Sages Mantreshwara, Kalyan Varma, 
Maharishi Vashistha and Parashara. The Sun is not 
malefic (paap graha meaning — sin, vice, evil etc.) 
but a Krura graha (cruel, unkind, merciless, ruthless 
and rigid). Being the soul of universe and Karaka for 
father can never be same like other malefics. He may 
be strict. The western astrologer Shepherial has treated 
Sun as a benefic planet. The other western astrologers 
have treated the Sun as responsible for causing 
separation. 

1.1 (i) PLANETARY GOVERNANCES 

Sun ; Soul of all Mercury ; Speech giver 

Jupiter ; Knowledge and happiness 

Moon ; Mind Venus ; Semen (Potency) 

Mars ; Strength Saturn : Grief 

1.1 (j) PLANETRY CABINET 

Sun and Moon : Royal Status 

Mars Army Chief 

Mercury : Prince 

Jupiter and Venus : Ministers 

Saturn Servant 

Rahu and Ketu Army 



1.1 (k) PLANETARY DEITIES 

Sun (Agni) Fire 

Moon ; (Varuna) Water (Rain God) 

Mars Subrahmanya (Lord Shiva's son 
following Ganesha) 

Mercury : Maha Vishnu 

Jupiter : Indra 

Venus Sachi Devi (the Consort of Lord Indra) 

Saturn Brahma 

1.1 (i) CONSONANTS AND VOWELS 

Sun 12 Vowels Swar (T^T) 

Moon Semi Vowels T vl ^ 

Sibilants 71 "Ff 

Aspirate 1? 

Mars Guttural Kavarg (^^'f) HI T ^ IF 

Mercury Cerebrals Tavarg (i^'f) U 13 ^ c? "^T 

(upiter Dentals Tavarg (tfcpf) cT ^ s? ^ 

Venus Palatals Chavarg(-U<3'f) ^ e5 "51 

Saturn Labials Pavarg (WB) "T ^1 T 

1.2 CHARACTERISTICS OF PLANETS 

All these Rashis and Planets have their natural characteristics 
influencing the physical and mental growth of the human 
being and the things around him. These are to be carefully 
studied before we study the birth chart. Let us first study 
the properties of each planet . 

7 



1.2(a) THE SUN 

Astrologically, the Sun is considered to be tall, fiery in nature, 
with yellow eyes, dark brown colour, scanty hair ,bald head, 
bilious nature. Indicator of father, personal magnetism, vitality, 
masculine, malefic, copper colour, ego, royal, philosophical 
tendency, money lenders, will power, authority and position. 

He rules fuel, hides and skin, wool, weapons, silk cloth, pungent 
flavour, husk grains, gold, fire, poisons, medicines, doctors, 
kings and statesman and wheat. 

Sun is producer, sower and developer of seeds. Sun is called 
father of the world. He is soul of universe, power to resist 
disease, pearl, wood, lion, strength, worship of lord Shiva, 
thorny trees, benevolence of king (government), magistrate, 
gold ornaments, physician, electric current, ambassador, 
ophthalmology. 

Places ruled by the Sun are : Open places, range of mountains 
and hills, forest, capital towns and places of worship, Shiva 
temple, ocean, courts, exhibitions, social gatherings, fort, region 
where there is no water, eastern quarter. 

The parts of body over which he has control are the head, 
stomach, bones, heart, arteries (blood circulation), eyes, brain, 
throat, spleen and strength of tissues, belly. 

Diseases that are caused by him are blood pressure, high fever, 
cerebral disorders, eye diseases, throat, ear and nose diseases, 
consumption and dysentery are caused by him when he is 
in watery signs afflicted by malefic planets in unfavourable 
houses. 

Caste : Kashatriya; Sex : Male; Direction : East 

8 



1.2(b) THE MOON 

She has a corpulent body (fat body), young as well as old, 
curly hair, white in complexion, has lovely eyes. The Moon 
is the ruler of the mind and intelligence, mental disposition, 
heart, mother, beauty, saturation of blood, renowned persons, 
young women, fond of walking, soft in speech, magnetic fon e, 
scent, juice, fickleminded and very lustful. Watery substances, 
lakes, sea, temple of Goddess Durga, vegetation, rain, textile, 
chemicles( fine chemicals and pharmaceuticlas), alcohol, miik, 
honey, sugarcane, pearls, sweet things, rice, barely, wheat 
and agriculturists. 

The organs of the body ruled by her are the arteries, nerves, 
brain, fat, stomach, uterus, bladder, breast, ovaries and organs 
of procreation. 

Diseases that a re caused by her are venereal diseases, jaundice, 
dyspepsia, asthma, bronchitis, skin disease etc. She is phlegmatic 
and windy. 

Caste; Vaishya; Sex ; Feminine; Direction : Northwest 

1.2(c) MARS 

He has a slender waist, curly and shining hair, fierce red 
eye, cruel nature and is fickle minded. Independence, 
persistence and youthful age. Mars is a macsuline and Malefic 
planet. He represents younger brother, blood-red colour, 
refine taste base, rotten things, ambassadors, military activities, 
commerce, aerial journeys, weaving, public speakers. Mars 
is the battlefield and commander-in-chief of celestial army. 
Reddish in colour, hot and fiery limbs, urinary system, logic, 
fireplaces, kitchen, engine room, boiler, night workers, murders, 
conspiracy, strikes, enemy, wounds, tine, organising capacity, 
executiveabilities, leadership over labourers, police department 

9 



and scandals. 

Materials governed by him are copper, metals, mines, minerals 
and ores, gold field, coral, weapons, land and tobacco. 

Parts of the body ruled by him are bile, ears, nose, forehead, 
sinews, fibre and muscular tissues. 

Diseases caused by Mars are rupture of veins and arteries, 
diseases of bone marrow, haemorrhage, abortions, menstrual 
disorders, gonorrhoea, muscular rheumatism, humps and 
burns. 

Caste: Kshatriya; Sex ; Masculine; Direction; South 

1.2(d) MERCURY 

Benefic, when associated with benefic planets. Malefic, when 
associated with malefic planets. Mercury is fond of fun. He 
has lots of information on various topics and is intelligent. 
He is the first prince among the heavenly bodies. He is earthy 
in composition, spare, thin and green in colour, mercantile 
activitiy, public speakers, cold and nervous. He rules over 
commerce, churches, schools, playgrounds, parks, gambling 
dens, delights in damage. 

The products governed by him are green gram, emerald, lead, 
oilseeds, edible oils, currency alloys and brass. 

Other things ruled by him are mechanics, clerks, water, poetry 
intellect, education, authorship, maternal uncles, maternal 
grand fathers and paternal relatives, palatial bulidings, horses, 
doctors and tradesman. 

Parts of the body ruled by him are brain, tongue, nervous 
system, thyroid gland, skin, neck and power of speech. 

Diseases: dumbness, insanility, loss of memory, headache 

10 



.md skin diseases, fits, small-pox, plenty of bile, phlegm and 
wind in composition. 

( aste rVaishya; Sex : Eunuch; Direction : North 

12(e) JUPITER 

1 le has brown eyes and brown hair, tall body. He is fat and 
phelgmatic with a tall and heavy carrier, corpulence, loud 
and heavy voice. Masculine, benefic, bright, yellow colour, 
devotion, progeny, truthfulness, religious fervour, philosophical 
and aptitude for every science. 

1 le is the essence of knowledge and wisdom. Preceptor of 
( iod. He represents topaz, treasure house and places where 
learned men live. Gold is his metal wealth. 

1 le has domain over fat, stomach and intestine in the body, 
wealth, fame, sons and grandsons, children, learned men, 
grand father, intellect, education, minister, advisor, ether, 
scriptures, quick silver, tin cardamons, banks and insurance 
companies. 

The diseases caused by Jupiter are liver troubles, dropsy, 
flatulence, abscess, carbuncles, degeneration of fat, digestive 
troubles, kidneys, etc. 

(upiter has been defined as Deva Guru, Gnana Karaka. Sage 
Varahamihir defined Jupiter Gour Gatra (pfa '111) Mantreshwar 
says yellow lustre Crtcl qfrt ) and according to Kalyan Varma 
( ;old or wheat (^PT^i). Jupiter represents Ether (STT^TTI ^Tc^) 
or Celestial (mkciIFW)). 

Caste ; Brahmin; Sex : Male; Direction : North East 

12(f) VENUS 

she has a black curly hair, huge body, wheaty complexion. 

11 



feminine, benefic, mixture of all colours, wife, love affairs, 
sexual pleasure, familv bliss, vitality, watery in composition, 
with white body and charming appearance, spouse, dance 
halls, sexual happiness. She has domain over vehicles, 
sugarcane industries, trade, chemicals, medicines, silk, cotton 
(fine quality), luxury articles, passion, pleasure, maid servants, 
perfumes, and musical instruments. 

The parts of body ruled by her are sexual organs, semen, 
muscles, thighs, urine and hair.Shecauses diseases like venereal 
complaints, sexual disability, muscular rheumatism, loss of 
eyesight and power of smell, spermatorrhoea and leucorrhoea. 

Caste : Brahmin; Sex : Female; Direction : South East 

1.2(g) SATURN 

He has stiff hair, large limbs, dark body, malefic, stubbornness, 
impetuosity, demoralisation, windy diseases, despondency, 
gambling. He rules the air, mountains and hills, forest regions 
and dirty places. He has domain over iron, sapphire, cremation 
grounds and burial places, prisons and old people. The 
commodities presided over by him are black gram, hemp, 
barley and oils. 

Parts of body ruled by him are bladder, excretory system, 
teeth, muscles, wrist and feet. 

Diseases caused by Saturn are muscular pains, toothache, 
asthma, tuberculosis, epilepsy, hysteria, pains in the joints 
and ulcers. 

Caste : Shudra; Sex : Eunuch; Direction : West 

1.2(h) RAHU 

Malefic, feminine, renunciation, corruption, epidemics, tall 
and phlegmatic, dark in complexion and dirty. He is 

12 



materialistic, foreign travels and intrigues with low class people, 
flie parts of the body ruled by Rahu are skin and blood. Diseases 
caused by him are cholera, smallpox, leprosy, epilepsy, blood 
poisoning, itches, malaria and plague. He rules the paternal 
grandfather, maternal grand mother. 

Caste : Low caste; Sex : Female; Direction : South West 

1.2(i) KETU 

Ketu is dark in complexion, smoky colour, tall and inhaling 
smoke. He rules intestinal worms, smallpox, cholera and other 
epidemics. He generally causes the same diseases as Rahu. 
He rules maternal grand father and paternal grand mother. 
Malefic, religious, sectarian principles, pride, selfishness, 
occultism. 

Caste : Low caste; Sex : Hermaphrodite; 
Direction : South West 

Malefics always tend to do harm but undercertain conditions, 
the intensity of the mischief is tempered. Benefics on the other 
hand tend to do good, but some times they also become capable 
of doing harm. 

1.3 PLANETS ; THEIR EXALTATION ETC. 

We have already read about the planets their lordship of the 
signs (Rashis) in para 1.1(d). 

Due to the motion of the planets in the Zodiac, they pass 
through certain degrees of constellations and Rashis (signs), 
they acquire or lose strength or power. Here we will discuss 
the position of the planets where they are treated strong, 
strongest, medium or otherwise. It is essential to know about 
the strength of the planet, otherwise we will not be able to 
predict whether in certain situation a planet would give good, 

13 



evil or nil effect. 

The following chart will give us the position of the planets 
acquiring certain position by virtue of their Longitudes. 

1.3(a) EXALTATION AND DEBILITATION 

Planet is exalted or debilitated when posited in a particular 
sign in the particular degree. 

S.No. Planet Deep Exaltation Deep Debilitation 

1. Sun Aries 10° Libra 10° 

2. Moon Taurus 3° Scorpio 3° 

3. Mars Capricorn 28° Cancer 28° 

4. Mercury Virgo 15° Pisces 15° 

5. Jupiter Cancer 5° Capricorn 5° 

6. Venus Pisces 27° Virgo 27° 

7. Saturn Libra 20° Aries 20° 

8. Rahu Taurus 20° Scorpio 20° 

9. Ketu Scorpio 20° Taurus 20° 

Here is the controversy, some astrologers take Rahu to be 
exalted in Gemini and Ketu in Sagittarius. Debilitated Rahu 
in Sagittarius and Ketu in Gemini. 

To explain the above, the entire Leo sign is owned by the 
Sun and if the Sun is in Leo, we say the Sun is strong because 
he is in his own sign. If the Sun is in Aries, we say that the 
Sun is in the sign of exaltation and therefore strong or that 
the Sun is exalted. But if the Sun is in libra, the Sun is in his 
sign of debilitation and therefore weak or the Sun is debilitated. 

Exalted planets give good result and debilitated planets give 
adverse result. The debilitated planet becomes weak, hence 

14 



is inactive. The malefic will not cause inauspicious result 
and the benefic will not give auspicious results. 

The third degree of Taurus is the Moon's highest degree of 
exaltation and the third degree of Scorpio is her deepest 
debilitation point. The debilitation points are found by adding 
180° to exaltation. While in a state of fall, planets give results 
contrary to those when in exaltation. Seventh sign from 
exaltation sign becomes sign of debilitation. 

1.3(b) MOOLTRIKONA 

Planet Mooltrikona sign Mooltrikona degree 

Sun Leo 0° to 20° 

Moon Taurus 3° to 30° 

Mars Aries 0° to 12° 

Mercury Virgo 15° to 20° 

Jupiter Sagittarius 0° to 10° 

Venus Libra 0° to 15° 

Saturn Aquarius 0° to 20° 

If a planet is in Mooltrikona sign it gives good results. 

FOR EXAMPLE : 

Sun Moon 
Mars Mercury Ketu Moon \ 5 / \ 3 / 

Venus 6 \/ Asc. \/ 2 
yX. Ketu 

Jupiter SRI ADI A sc. w 
SANKARA- Mercury ^ 

CHARYA \ 7 i Sun y 
Xo \ Venus / 

sX // yi2 

Rahu yC Mars 
Saturn Rahu / 9 \ n N. 

/ Saturn Jupiter N. 

15 



Sun exalted. Lord of 2nd house (speech) Mercury (Intellect 
and Logic) in 10th with Venus (Poetic). He was master of 
strictest logic, yet so sweet-tongued, that he was able to convince 
thousands and thousands of his opponents. 

Sn Gautama Buddha, Prophet Mohammed, Sri 
Ramanujacharya, Swami Vidyaranya all had exalted sun. Sun 
represents Atman, A Sattwika guna Philosophical, and 
philanthropic dispositions. 

Aurangzeb has debilitated Sun. He had exalted Moon (Manas 
or Mind) which indicated vast ability and patience. The 
disposition of sun made him habitually auspicious and the 
mistakes of his political conduct were sufficiently evident. 

For better understanding we have shofA ^.the distinction 
between the behaviour of an exalted plar.'^Jnd a debilitated 
planet. But it should be well understood unless complete 
analysis of the horoscope is done together with other principles 
(which will be discussed in book-Ill) of Astrology, no fruitful 
or final conclusion can be given. 

The point of discussion about the planets posited in ow n sign, 
exalted sign, Mooltnkona sign, friendly sign. Debilitation and 
enemy's sign is to make the students understand the relative 
strength of the planets. A beggar is no chooser, he depends 
upon the help of others. There is a saying "Where there is 
a will there is a way " OR "A man is maker of his own fortune" 
but unless he is strong enough and also permitted by the 
circumstances, he will not achieve better results. 

UCCHABHILASHI 

Any planet which is in a sign preceding its exaltation is called 
uchchabhilashi, and tends to give results. 

1.4(a) A planet when moving after crossing its debilitation 

16 



point and moves towards the point of exaltation (which i$ 
Inst a distance of 180 degree from the deep point of debilitation) 
is called Aarohi (-srniFT). 

1 4(b) When a planet crosses the highest degree of exaltation 
and moves towards the deep point of debilitation (which is 
also at a distance of 180 degrees from the point of exaltation) 
is called Avrohi (), 

1.4(c) In the first case the planet is said to be gaining strength 
and in the other case the planet is losing strength every minute 
lill it loses all the strength at the point of deep debilitation. 

1.5 MOON 

We know that the Moon is very powerful when it is full Moon- 
When she crosses this point of fu 11 Moon and starts reducing 
strength day by dav (called waning moon) till it reaches the 
point of final combustion with the Sun (when the difference 
between the Sun and Moon's longitude is zero it is called 
Amavasva day). This fortnight is called Dark Half (Krishnii 
I'aksha). The other transit of the Moon from the Sun to just 

•ppesitB position ata d istance 0^180 is called waxing Moon, 
Moon is getting strength day by day till it reaches at a difference 
of 180° from sun and is called full Moon. This fortnight is 
called Bright Half (Shukla paksha). The moment she crosses 
the Sun's longitude and moves further she is called 'New 
Moon'. 

QUESTIONS 

1. What are the properties of Saturn, Mercury and Jupiter ? 

2 Give the names of Masculine Planets and Eunuch Planets? 

17 



3. Name the Benefic and Malefic Planets (saumya, krura & 
Papa Grahas). 

4 . Name the Lords of Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aries, Cancer, 
Scorpio and Virgo Signs ? 

5. Is any lordship assigned to Rahu and Ketu ? 

6. Write Exaltation and Debilitation position of all planets 
with degrees ? What is the utility of these Planetary 
positions? 

7. Give the Mooltrikona signs of all the 7 planets with degrees 
and also write about the significance of these planetary 
positions ? 

8. Write short notes on: 

(a) Nakshatras and their lords. 

(b) Longitudes of the nakshatras ruled by the following 
planets 

(i) Mars (ii) Moon (iii) Saturn (iv) Venus (v) Rahu (vi) 
Mercury (vii) Sun (viii) Jupiter (ix) Ketu. 

(c) How much time is taken by the following planets to 
travel a sign: 

(i) Mercury (ii) Jupiter (iii) Mars (iv) Saturn 

(d) Which planet has control over; 

(i) Mind (ii) Speech (iii) Education and happiness. 

(e) " Planetary cabinet 

(f) Planetary deities. 

18 



Chapter 2 

SIGNS AND THEIR CHARACTERISTICS 

2.1 We have learnt the Twelve parts of the Zodiac called 
Rashis or Signs and their names in para 1.1(d). We have also 
known about the planets owning these Rashis and also understood 
the characteristics of the planets. 

In this lesson we will discuss about the characteristics of 
the signs (Rashis). Unless we are aware of the effects of the 
signs and their nature, we will not be able to understand the 
effects of the combination of the planets in these signs. So 
we have to seriously understand the characteristics of the 
Twelve signs, 

(A) The twelve signs are grouped, according to their 
characteristics, as under; 

(i) NATURE 

Moveable (Char), Fixed (Sthir) and Dual (Dwiswabhava) 

Moveable:(l) Aries (Mesh) (4) Cancer (Karka) 

(7) Libra (Tula) (lO)Capricorn (Makar) 

Fixed: (2) Taurus (Vrish) (5) Leo (Simha) 

(8) Scorpio (Vrishchik) (11)Aquarius(Kumbha) 

Dual: (3) Gemini (Mithuna) (6) Virgo (Kanya) 

(9) Sagittarius (Dhanu)(l 2) Pisces (Meena) 

(ii) TATWAS 

Fiery (Agni), Earth (Prithvi), Airy (Vayu) and Watery (Jal) 



Fiery : (1) Aries (5) Leo (9) Sagittarius 

Earthy : (2) Taurus (6) Virgo (10) Capricorn 

Airy : (3) Gemini (7) Libra (11) Aquarius 

Watery : (4) Cancer (8)Scorpio (12) Pisces 

(in) SEX : MALE AND FEMALE 

Male : Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius and Aquarius. 

(All Agni and Vayu Rashis and all odd signs). 

lemale : Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn and 
Pisces. 
(All ]al and Prithvi Rashis and even signs). 

The male signs are dominating, active and aggressive. 

The Female signs are mild, submissive and passive. 

(iv) ODD AND EVEN SIGNS 

Odd ; Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius and Aquarius. 

Even : Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn and Pisces. 

(v) LIMBS OF KALA PURUSHA 

The twelve signs of the Zodiac represents the parts 
of the body as under; 

Signs Parts of the body 

(1) Aries Head 

(2) Taurus Face, including neck 

(3) Gemini Arms, upper portion of chest, shoulders 

(4) Cancer Heart, breast, lungs, upper portion of 
stomach 

(5) Leo Stomach below the chest and above 
the navel 

20 



Signs Parts of the body 

(6) Virgo Hip, below navel and above basti, waist 

(7) Libra below basti, navel 

(8) Scorpio Genitals, anus, privities 

(9) Sagittarius Thighs 

(10) Capricorn Two Knees and back 

(11) Aquarius Ankles, calves of legs 

(12) Pisces Feet 

In addition to above, many other interior parts of the body 
are also represented by these Rashis. 

There are still more methods to divide 12 Rashis into many 
parts to cover each and every part of the body. For this Drekkana 
(Dreshkana) and Dwadshamsha are also used. A primary 
knowledge of Kala Purusha, is enough for the present. The 
detailed discussion showing the practical use of thisknowledge 
will be made in the book on Medical Astrology. 

(VI) TEMPERAMENTS 

Kaph, Pitta and Vayu (Phlegm, Bile and wind). 

Bilious : Aries, Leo, Sagittarius (1, V, IX) 

Windy : Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn (11, VI, X) 

Mix : Gemini, Libra, Aquarius (111, VH, XI) 

Phelgm : Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces (IV, VIII, Xll) 

l his shov/s Aries, Taurus, Gemini and Cancer and the rasis 
hi Trines from these four have tendencies for Bile, wind, mix, 
1'lielgm respectively. 

r.oth (v) and (vi) are very useful in Medical Astrology. The 
i.nnection of planets with these Rashis produces results. 

21 



(vii) CASTE 

Brahmins, Kshatriyas, Vaishyas, Sudras. 

Brahmins : All Jal Tatwa Rashis are Brahmins(Teacher/ 

Priest, Preacher) Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces. 

Kshatriyas : All Fiery signs are Kshatriyas (Warriors) Aries, 
Leo and Sagittarius. 

Vaishyas : All Earthy signs are Vaishyas(Traders, farmers 
etc.) Taurus. Virgo, Capricorn. 

Shudras : All Airy signs are Shudras(serving class) 
Gemini, Libra, Aquarius. 

This is very useful in judging the nature, inclination etc. of 
the native and very useful in deciding the profession of the 
native. 

(viii) WATERY SIGNS 

Cancer, Scorpio, Capricorn and Pisces 

Dependent on water : Taurus, Gemini, Virgo and 
Aquarius (Toyashraya) 

Traverse Waterless : These regions are represented by 
Aries, Leo, Libra and Sagittarius 

(ix) DIRECTIONS 

The four Directions are also represented by these twelve signs 
as under: 

East : Aries, Leo, Sagittarius (Agni) (I, V, IX) 

South : Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn (Prithvi) (II, VI, X) 

West : Gemini. Libra, Aquarius (Vayu) (III, VII, XI) 

North : Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces (Jal) (IV, VIII, XII) 

22 



Notes : Here again the rasis in Trikona from each other 
represents the same direction. 

I hese are also very useful in predictions. These can be used 
lor many purposes, but they are mostly used to decide from 
which directions the bridegroom will come and also to which 
directions the person has gone or will go or transferred etc. 

(x) DIURNAL AND NOCTURNAL SIGNS 

Some signs are strong during day time and some are strong 
during night time. 

During Day Time : Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Aquarius 
(Diurnal) and Pisces 

During Night Time: Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, 
(Nocturnal) Sagittarius and Capricorn 

Note: The day is reckoned from sunrise to sunset, and the 
night from sunset to sunrise. 

(xi) BIPED, QUADRUPED 

biped : Gemini, Virgo, Libra, the first half of Sagittarius, 
human beings) (Represented by man with arrow) and Aquarius. 

ljuadruped : Aries, Taurus, Leo, later half of Sagittarius 
(represented by horse) and first half of Capricorn 
(front portion is of goat). 

iVatery : Cancer, pisces and later half of Capricorn 
Exception: some say that Aquarius is a watery 
sign and cancer is a centiped (^tH) sign. 

Keeta : Scorpio 
[insect etc) 

Note: (i) Human signs are strong if they fall on the cusp 
of the first house. Quadruped are strong if they 
fall on tenth cusp. These are strong during night. 

23 



Watery signs are deemed to be endowed with 
strength if they are on the fourth cusp. Reptiles 
are strong on the seventh cusp. These signs are 
strong at dawn and at sunset. Biped signs are strong 
during day. 

(ii) Aries is Ram. 

Taurus is a bull. 

Gemini constitutes a pair of human beings(man 
and woman). 

Cancer is a Crab. 

Leo is Lion. 

Virgo is a woman sailing in a boat with corn in 
one hand and fire in the other. 

Libra is a person with scales or balance ir band. 

Scorpio is a reptile sign with scorpion as a s, nbol. 

Sagittarius is a man armed with a bow, the hind 
part of the body being that of a horse. 

Capricorn is a crocodile with the face of a deer. 

Aquarius is symbolised by a man with, a pot. 

Pisces (two fishes with their tails and heads in 
reversed positions. 

The above classifications have been discussed to have 
acquaintance with the characteristics of the signs. In addition 
to this we will further discuss about each Rashi one by one: 

24 



(B) CHARACTERESTICS OF RASHIS 

(i) Aries 

The place of jewels, metals, fire, the earth's surface having 
jewels and minerals underneath. Colour-blood red, lunar sign, 
malefic sign, strong at ascension, short, abodes forest. He 
has round eyes, square face, good practicability, social, bad 
temper, does not hesitate to utter falsehood. Prishtodaya sign. 
Rajoguna predominates and blind at dead of night. 

(ii) Taurus 

The forest or field, land where cattle or agriculturist reside, 
field with water where paddy is grown. Colour-white,Lunar 
sign, benefic, broad things, big face, forgiving, hardship, 
prominent eyes, behave like a bull, practical ability, bad temper 
when provoked, villages, businessmen, prishtodaya, strong 
at night. 

(iii) Gemini 

The places where dancers, singers, artists, women of pleasure 
reside, a bedroom, the place for sexual enjoyment and indoor 
sports, places where cards or other kinds of betting goes on, 
gambling dens etc. Colour-parrot green, lunar sign, malefic 
average ascensions, ubhayodaya sign, curly hair, black lips, 
skillled in interpreting other people s thoughts, an elevated 
nose, likes music and house keeping, slender arms and long 
fingers, shy, lives m villages blind at mid day. 

(iv) Cancer 

Watery fields where paddy is grown, wells, tanks, river banks 
where there is an abundance of planets, shrubs and trees 
due to moisture and extra humidity, a chasm with water. 
Colour-whitish red. Lunar sector, long in Ascension, fast in 
walking, fond of wealth, occult tendencies, benefic sign, sature 
disposition, social nature, not selfish but sacrifices for others. 

25 



(v) Leo 

The regions of deep forest, mountains, hills and hillocks, forts. 
Colour-pale white like smoke, solar sign, spine part, medium 
ascension, strong in day, Shirshodaya sign. Abodes- caves, 
mountains. Reddish eyes, large cheeks, broad face, honourable, 
malefic sign, blind at dead of night. 

(vi) Virgo 

The place of artisanship, place of enjoyment of women, pasture 
land, land with corn, colour-variegated or multicoloured, 
benefic, medium ascension, shirshodaya sign, vegetation land, 
shoulders and arms dropping, truthful and kindly, limited 
number of issues, darkhair, good mental ability, methodical, 
critical and solar sign. Blind at mid day. 

(vii) Libra 

High land where corn is grown (grain was the chief commodity 
or merchandise and libra represents the scales for weighing), 
street shops, a rich man's place of abode (the merchants used 
to be rich) a merchant's house. Colour-black, solar sign, medium 
ascension, shirshodaya sign, market place, fair appearance, 
impartial in argument, brave, body slender in youth but bends 
to corpulence, round face, good complexion, malefic sign. 
Deaf in the forenoon. 

(viii) Scorpio 

Places having holes or cavities where serpents and others 
live, poison, crevices in hillocks or mountains, hidden places, 
golden-colour, solar sign, benefic, secret part of human body, 
long ascension, shirshodaya sign. Broad and expansive eyes 
and a broad chest, suffer from disease in early age, will do 
cruel acts, self reliance, courage, endurance and executive 
ability, Benefic sign. Deaf in the forenoon. 

26 



(ik) Sagittarius 

I he place where horses, chariots and elephants live, the king's 
residence. Brownish colour, solar sign. Malefic, strong in day, 
long ascension, prishtodaya sign, abodes-battle field, long 
I ace and neck, big ears and nose, great strength, liberal, cheerful, 
good hearted, likes physical culture and travelling, loud voice. 
I )eaf in the afternoon and lame and become fatal in two periods 
of twilight. 

(x) Capricorn 

Kivers, forest, watery places, rich or abounding in water, banks, 
or sides of river or mountains. Wheatish yellow colour, solar 
sign, benefic, average asccension, prishtodaya sign. Weak 
in the lower limbs, good strength, indolent, prominent nose. 
I leaf in the afternoon and lame and becomes fatal in the two 
periods of twilight (^TE?TT). 

(xi) Aquarius 

Places where water has dried up, where men who manufecture 
liquors or birds live, place in the house where pots are kept, 
I he place frequented by potters. Colour darkish white. Lunar 
sign, legs, malefic, strong in day, shirshodaya sign. Fair looking, 
intellectual, hair dark, forgiving temperament. 

(xii) Pisces 

Religious and holy places, rivers where sacred baths are 
undertaken, seas, oceans, places where there are temples and 
shrines, violet colour. Lunar sign, benefic, short ascension, 
Ubhayodaya sign, symmetrical and shining body, fond of 
wife, learned, reserved. 

Note: Concluding portions of Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces 
are called Rikshasandhi and is well known as 
Pragandantha 

27 



QUESTIONS 

1. What do you know about the characteristics of the planets? 
Do you think the physical and mental growth of the human 
beings are influenced by the characteristics of the planets? 

2. Write short notes on : 

(a) Movable, fixed and dual signs. 

(b) Tatwas of Rashis 

(c) Sex of Rashis 

(d) Part of the body represented by Scorpio, Leo, Virgo, 
and Taurus. 

3. "What do you think about the castes represented by 
Rashis(signs)7 Is there any relation between castes and 
Tatwas represented by Zodiacal signs? 

4. What do the following signs indicate? 

(i) Aries (ii) Leo (iii) Libra (iv) Scorpio 
(v) Pisces 

5. What do you know about Diurnal and Nocturnal signs? 

6. Discuss how the characteristics of Rashis help an astrologer 
to predict. 

7. If the characteristics of Leo sign and the sun are taken 
together, what will you say about the native born with 
Leo as his Ascendant? 

8. Comment on the following positions of Sun for a native 
having Leo as ascendant ? 

(a) If the Sun is posited in Leo. 

(b) If the Sun is posited in Aries. 

(c) If the Sun is posited in Libra. 

(d) If the Sun is posited in Aquarius. 

28 



Chapter 3 

KARAKATWAS OF PLANETS AND 

HOUSES PART - I 

3.1(a) Karaka 

It literally means that which does or a suffix denoting the 
factor responsible for a result. One who does the work of 
others on their behalf as a duty assigned to him or gives similar 
results as given by others is called Karaka for them. Karakatwa 
is the duty assigned to him (Karaka). In astrological terms 
a planet doing the work of a house is called Karaka of that 
house(Bhava). Here a question arises as to what is a house? 

The sign rising in the eastern horizon at the time of birth of 
the native is called first house (Lagna or Ascendent), the 
subsequent Rasis rising after that are respectively 2nd house- 
upto 12th house till the same sign rises again. Thus a complete 
revolution of the circle gives us I to XII houses of the Birth 
chart and the position of the planets transiting in different 
sign(now known as different bhavas for this native). The 
planets, which are lord of respective signs, remains the lords 
of the bhavas (represented by the signs or Rasis). 

Illustrations : 

Let us presume that the Libra was rising in the eastern horizon 
at the time of birth of a native. Libra becomes the ascendant 
for the birth chart of that native.. The next sign to Libra is 
Scorpio, which is the second house for this chart and so on, 
Sagittarius the third, Capricorn the fourth, Aquarius the fifth, 
Pisces the sixth, Aries the seventh, Taurus the eighth, Gemini 
the ninth. Cancer the tenth, Leo eleventh and Kanya the twelfth 
bhavas. 



See the following chart ; 

xn 
VI VII VIII IX 

9 

V X 
V 

IV XI 

V 1 \\ 
ASC V 

V III 
VI II 1 Xll 

 

The Bhavas are marked as I, 11, 111, IV  to Xll. 

The Rasis (Signs) are indicated as 1, 2, 3, 4,  to 12. 

The planets have been assigned the work of these bhavas 
also. For predictive purpose we analyse the disposition of a 
house, lord of that house and the Karaka of that house. After 
studyingabout these three factors we can interpret the results 
of a bhava. We now discuss briefly about these bhavas and 
their functions. 

House Karkatwas 

I Tanu bhava (about one's physique) 

II Dhana bhava (about wealth) 

III Sahaja (Bharathru) bhava (about co-borns) 

IV Sukh bhava, Bandhu/Matru bhava (about mother, 
domestic life). 

V Putra bhava (about children, progeny) 

VI Gnati (An) bhava, (enemy and maternal uncle etc) 
Rogasthana (seat of disease). 

30 



House Karkatwas 

VH Kalatra bhava (spouse) 

VHl Aayu bhava, (longevity) Randhra. 

IX Dharma, Pitru bhava (religion, father) 

X Karma bhava (Profession, livelihood, actions) 

XI Labha bhava (Gains, elders etc.) 

Xll Vyaya bhava (house of expenditure etc.); MokshaSthana. 

The planets are also significators of the results of these houses. 

For example: Let us discuss about the 4th house. The fourth 
house represents mother and vehicle besides many other things. 

The fourth house and the lord of the fourth house(means 
the lord of the sign which is fourth from Ascendant or Lagna), 
will tell us about the mother and vehicle both. If while analysing 
the chart we find that : 

(a) there is a time of change, indications are that an old one 
(house or vehicle) is being replaced by a new one or 

(b) It is a bad period for the results of the fourth bhava. 

Should we predict change of vehicle or house or mother. Is 
it a bad period for mother, vehicle or for what ? So to arrive 
at a particular point the Rishis (learned Sages) have given 
us many methods, use of the Karkas and the different vargas 
etc. The Karakas are also very helpful to analyse such matters 
and help us to reach to an accurate prediction. 

The planet the Moon tells us about the mother. Any affliction 
to Moon together with affliction to the fourth house and 
4th lord will show a bad period for mother. 

Similarly if an astrologer finds affliction to the 4th house 

31 



and 4th lord and also to the Karaka Venus, a prediction can 
be given about vehicle. 

Thus it would now be clear that the matter(events) governed 
by any house or its lord should also be judged from the Karaka 
planet for that bhava to arrive at a precise conclusion. 

The use and importance of the knowledge about the functioning 
of planets, and their Karakatwas and their relations with 
different bhavas in the horoscope is very relevant. Unless 
these three factors are zvell considered, any conclusion will 
he wrong or unscientific. 

3.1(b) Firstly we will read about the Karakatwas or duties 
assigned to the planets: 

(i) Sun : Sun is the Karaka for soul, self, self-realisation, 
influence, prestige, power, valour, health, right eye, heart, 
general well-being, heat, splendour, father, king, royalty, royal, 
favour, politics, medical science, fame, honour and electricity. 

(ii) Moon : Moon is the Karaka for the heart (some learned 
astrologers take some do not) understanding inclination, 
emotions, sleep, happiness, good name and fame, facial lustre, 
mother, royal favour, affluence (wealth), travel (distance 
journeys also) and water reservoirs. 

(iii) Mars : Mars is the Karaka for stamina, courage, 
valour, desires, special qualities, anger, scandal, diseases, 
enemies, opposition, controversies, weapons, commander of 
an army, war, accidents, injuries by burns or weapons, land, 
immovable properties, younger brother, relatives such as 
cousins etc., leadership, police, doctors, scientists, mechanical 
engineering. 

(iv) Mercury : Mercury is the Karaka for all Intelligence, 
discrimination, speech, expression, education, learning, 

32 



mathematics. Accountant, postman, logic, astrology, medical 
knowledge and profession, writing, publishing, acting as a 
middleman in trade or politics, dancing, drama, mixture of 
things, leaf trees, testing of precious stone, charm, maternal 
uncle, friends. 

(v) Jupiter : Jupiter is the Karaka for wisdom, learning, 
corpulence or fatness of body, act of religious merit, devotion 
to gods, superior persons, elders, elder brother, husband, holy 
places, scriptures, proficiency in learning, philosophy, giving 
alms or donations, benevolence, wealth respect, sons, religious 
preceptors, fruity trees. 

(vi) Venus : Venus is the Karaka for wife, marriage, sexual 
matters, genital organ, pleasure of the senses(so in a female 
nativity Venus may be a co-Karaka along with Jupiter for 
the husband) singing, poetry, scents, ornaments, jewellery, 
all articles of luxury, cooperation from and with others, flowers, 
flowering trees, beauty, buying and selling, cows, watery places, 
whiteness. 

(vii) Saturn : Saturn is the Karaka for longevity, life, death, 
adversity, calamities, disrespect, diseases, poverty, livelihood, 
unrighteous conduct, learningof foreign language and science, 
agricultural pursuits, profession, minerals, oils, things buried 
deep into the earth and coming out therefrom, maid servants, 
services, theft, cruel deeds, lameness, very old persons, 
dishonour, avarice, temptation. 

(viii)Rahu : Rahu is the Karaka for paternal grand father, 
fallacious arguments, harsh speech, gambling, movements, 
travelling, outcastes, foreigners, snake, snake bite, theft, 
wickedness, widow, skin disease, itches, eczema, acute or 
sharp pain in the body, swealing in the body or any part 
therof, poison, pilgrimage. 

33 



(ix) Ketu : Ketu is the Karaka for maternal grandfather, 
consumption, pain, fever, wound, witchcraft, trouble to 
enemies, horned animals, dog, cock, birds, with spots or of 
variegated colour, Moksha. 

Note: Rahu acts like Saturn and Ketu acts like Mars. 

3.2(a) The planets are Karakas for certain relations and 
things: 

Sun : Father, profession and vacation 

Moon ; Mind, Mother 

Mars : Brothers and sisters(co-borns) 

Mercury Power of speech, eloquence, education 
learning and kins (maternal) 

Jupiter : Wealth, Progeny, children, elders, gains, 
elder brother and sister, education etc. 

Venus : Spouse(wife), vehicle, house etc. 

Saturn : Longevity, servants, service etc. 

3.2(b) Planets as Karakas for Houses: 

House Karaka 

1st : Sun 

Ilnd : Jupiter, Mercury* 

Illrd Mars, Saturn* 

IVth : Moon, Venus,* Mercury 

Vth Jupiter 

Vlth : Mars, Saturn, Mercury,* 

Vllth : Venus 

VHIth Saturn 

IXth : Jupiter, sun 

34 



Xth Mercury, Sun, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars* 

Xlth Jupiter 

Xllth Saturn, Venus* 

Note:* Vaidyanatha Dikshita's Jataka parijatha and 
Mantreshwara's Phala deepika have not taken these 
Planets to represent the Bhava indicated above but 
other learned astrologers have taken these - Mercury 
(speech, eloquence and education), Saturn (longevity), 
Venus (conveyance and sex life) and Mars (techincal 
planet, Parakrama and competitve spirit). 

QUESTIONS 

1. What are the characteristics of Sagittarius, Cancer, Aries 
and Capricorn Signs 7 

2. Name the Fiery, Earthy and Airy Signs?. How does this 
classification help in predictive astrology? 

3. Cassify the Rashis into the following categories: 

Prishtodaya, Shirshodaya, Fixed, Common, Watery? 

4. What are the odd and even Rashis, Benefic and Malefic 
Rashis, Male and female signs? 

5. Who is the Karaka for longevity, spouse, movable and 
immovable property, mother and father? 

6. What are the Karakatwa of Jupiter, mercury. Mars, Venus, 
Sun and Moon? 

7. Describe the Karakatwas of each house? 

8. Write karkatwas of Jupiter, Rahu and Mercury 7 

35 



Chapter 4 

AVASTHAS OF PLANETS 

We have learnt that the planets are moving in the Zodiac and 
transiting over the constellations (zodiac is marked by twenty 
seven constellations or Nakshatras). The planets on account of 
their incessant movements get into certain states of existence 
known as avasthas. 

4.1 INFANT STATE ETC. (Baladiavastha) 

These are Bal (infant), Kumar (youthful), Yuva (adolescent), 
Vnddha (old), and Mnt (dead) and these five states are based 
on the degrees attained by a planet in a sign (Rashi). 

In odd signs these states are placed in ascending order at 
the rate of 6°. 

In even signs these states are placed in decending order at 
the rate of 6°. 

Odd Avasthas Even Grade of results 

0° to 6° Infant 30° to 24° 1/4 

6° to 12° Youthful 24° to 18° V2 

12° to 18° Adolescent 18° to 12° Full 

18° to 24° Old 12° to 6° Negligible 

24° to 30° Dead 6° to 0° Nil 

4.2(a) We have already read when the planets are said to be 
in Exaltation, Mooltrikona, own house, debilitation, etc. For 



revision sake we may repeat as below : 

Planet Exaltation Debilitation Mooltrikona Own house* 

Sun Mesh 10° Tula 10° Leo 00to200 Leo 200to30° 

Moon Vrish 3° Vrishchik 3° Vrish 3°to30° Karka 0oto30° 

Mars Makar 28° Karka 28° Aries 0°lol2° Aries 12oto30° 

Mercury Kanya 15° Meena 15° Kanya 150to200 Kanva 2n<;to30o 

Jupiter Karka 5° Makar 5° Dhanu 00tol00 Dhanu l()0to300 

Venus Meena 27° Kanya 27° Tula 00tol50 Tula 15°to30* 

Saturn Tula 20° Mesh 20° Kumbha 0°to200 Ku mbh.i20 To30o 

* Own House : Treat 0" to 30° as own sign in respect of each 
planet. 

4.2(b) The deepest degrees of exaltation and debilitation have 
been given. In between a planet moving towards the exaltation 
sign is called Uchchabhilashi and the planet moving from 
exaltation sign to deep point of debilitation is called 
Ncechabhilashi. The points of deep exaltation and deep 
debilitation are 180° apart from each other or the 7th sign 
from the point of exaltation is the point of debilitation or 
vice versa. 

Bach planet assumes significance in a certainsign, as it becomes 
highly favourable when in exaltation and highly detrimental 
when in debilitation. 

The following charts may further Venus Sun 
27° 10° 

clear this view; 
jupiter 

5° 
Exaltation 

Mars 
28° 

Saiurn Mercur} 
20° IS" 

77 



Mercurv Saturn Mars Moon 
15° ' 20° 

Mars Saturn 
28° 

Debili tat ion 
) upiler Sun 

3° 

Moon Sun Venus J upiter Venus vlercur) 
3° 10° 27° 

Note; The points of exaltation and debilitation of Nodes (Rahu 
and Ketu), refer para 1.3(a) 

Student can very well understand that the planet in exaltation 
is most powerful, strongest in Mooltrikona and strong in own 
house. 

4.2(c) Combust Planets ; The planet while in transit, comes 
near the Sun and is divested of its brightness and is said to 
be combust. This is the state (avastha) of a planet when he 
is not in a position to give good effect or the results of the 
house to which he is the lord. 

The folowing table will give the state when a planet becomes 
combust. 

Combust in Combust in 

Planets direct motion retrograde motion 

Distance (in degrees) from the Sun (either way) 

Moon 12° 

Mars 17° 8° 

Mercury 14° 12° 

Jupiter 11° 11° 

Venus 10° 8° 

Saturn 16° 16° 

38 



\ote: Rahu and Ketu, being only mathematical points, are 
not treated as combust. But they eclipse or obstruct the Sun. 

A basic phenomena in combustion is that a combust planet 
J ces not heliacally rise during the period of combustion but 
is set. 

4 2(d) RELATIONSHIP - NATURAL AND TEMPORARY 

(i) Natural(Naisargik) - Friends/Enemies 

The lords of the signs 4th, 2nd, 12th, 5th, 9th, and 8th, from 
the Mooltrikona Rashi of a planet are friends, apart from the 
lord of its sign of exaltation. Lords of other than these signs 
i.e. the lord of 3rd, 6th, 11 th, 7th, and 10th from Mooltrikona 
Kashi are enemies. If a planet is friend and also are enemy 
(on other count) then it becomes neutral (equal). 

fable showing natural relationship of planets 

Planets Friends Enemies Neutral (Equals) 

Sun Moon, Mars, Jup. Venus, Saturn Mercury 
Moon Sun, Mercury — Mars,Jup.,Ven., Sat 
Mars Sun, Moon, Jup. Mercury Venus, Saturn 
Mercury Sun, Venus Moon Mars, Jup., Sat. 
Jupiter Sun, Moon, Mars Merc, Venus Saturn 
Venus Mercury, Saturn Moon, Sun Mars, Jupiter 
Saturn Mercury, Venus Sun, Moon, Jupiter 

Mars 

Mote: (a) Parashara said : 

*nTt, <r^ TTBT: TTSRT^TT: 

Meaning that the sun and Mercury are Moon's friends while 
others are her neutrals (Saravali has also given similar views). 
The Moon doesnot treat any planet as enemy. 

39 



Rahu : Friends ; Jupiter, Venus, Saturn 

Enemies Sun, Moon, Mars 

Neutral Mercury 

Ketu Friends Mars, Venus, Saturn 

Enemies Sun, Moon 

Neutral Mercury, Jupiter 

(ii) Temporary (Tatkalik) 

The planet posited in the 10th, 4th, 11 th, 3rd, 12th, or the 
2nd house from another becomes temporary friends. If posited 
in other houses —enemy. 

For the Sun Planets Moon, Mars, 
Saturn Sun Venus Mercury 

Saturn (posited in 10th, 11th and 

Mars Jupiter 12th) and Mercury, Venus, 
Jupiter (posited in 2nd, 3rd and 

Moon 4th bhavas are temorary friends 
{Tatkalik). 

(iii) Compound Relationship {Panchadha Maitri) 

This shows the results of the above (i and n) two types of 
friendship, if taken together. 

One Another Resultant 
relationship relationship relationship 

1. Friendship + Friendship Extreme Friendship 

2. Neutral + Friendship Friendship 

3. Enmity + Friendship Neutral 

4. Enmity + Enmity Extreme enmity 

5. Neutral + Enmity Enmity 

40 



I 2(e) EFFECT OF RELATIONSHIP 

\ Planet having relationship as above (4.2diii) would give 
results as under ; 

In case of : 

1. - Full benefic results with guarantee 

2. - Benefic results 

3. - Watch and see for some friendly planets sub-period. 

4. - Full Malefic results 

5. - Only Malefic results 

4.2(f) To assess the strength of the planet, the help of the 
following figures can be taken ; 

Exalted 100% good effects 

Mooltrikona 75 % good effects 

Own house 50 % good effects 

Friendly sign 25 % good effects 

Neutral sign 12 1/2% good effects 
Debilitation 1 good effects are nil 
or r inauspicious results 
Enemy's sign J will be more. 

4,3 When the planets occupy their signs of exaltation, 
mooltrikona, own house etc., they give results according to 
their mood or nature so acquired. This mood or nature has 
been given the following names by Rashi Parashara, 
Mantreshwara and other learned scholars, as shown in the 
(able on the following page. 

According to BRIHAT PRASARA HORA the results are as 
tinder : 

Planet in Deepta avastha bestows kingdom, authority, courage, 
wealtn, vehicles, marriage, progeny and honour from king 

41 



NINE STATES OR AVASTHAS OF GRAHAS(Planets) 
Mansagri Phaladeepika Uttarakalamrit 

Name of Position Naime of Position Name of Position 
Awastha of Planet Awastha of Planet Awastha of Planet 
Deepta Exalted Pradeepta Exalted Deepta Deep Exa- 

(100% good) ltation 
Sukhita Mooltrikona 
(80% good) 

Swastha Own Swastha Own house Stimitha- Own 
house (75% good) vastha house 

Mudita friend's Mudita friend's Mudita Extreme fri- 
house (60% good) House end's house 

Shan la In vargas Shanta In vargas of Shanta Friend's 
of benefit (50% good) Benefic House 
Planets Planets 

Sakta Lldila L.r- Sakta When Plane 
aha(Plancl (40% good) shines 
not combusf brightly 

Prapced- Combust V ikal Combust Kopita Combust 
ita 100% bad 

Ali Bhocta Debilitated 
(frightened) 
75% bad 

Deena Debilitated Sudukhit Enemy's 
(extremely House 
unhappy) 
60% bad 

/ikala With Vikala With 
Malefic Malefic 
Planets 

— Khala In vargas of 
50% bad malefics 

Khala Defeated Nipidita Defeated in Kha la Defeated in 
in Planet- (tortured) Planetary Planetary 
ary war 40% bad war war 

— Heena Neutral' 
House 

— Dukha Enemy's 
House 

Note : Dr. L.V. Raman has given ten avasthas which can be 
easily adopted for examinations. The above positions have been 
discussed for sake of information. 

42 



NINE STATES OR AVASTHAS OF GRAHAS(Planets) 
Brihat Parasara hora Results of the various avasthas of planets 

Name of Position As per Mansagri 
Awastha of Planet 
Deepta Exalted Valour, immense wealth, Destroy 

enemies, always happy. 
* Same as above 

Swastha Own house Own Vehicles, wealth, precious stones, Palacious 
house, commander of army,victorious in war. 

Pra- Thick Friend's Gains ot wealth, preci ous stones, religious, min- 
Mudita House ded, over powers enemies, ornamental to women 
Shanta Friendly sign Calm and quiet by nature, Minister to King, 

has many friends & sons, learned and auth- 
ority on Scriptures, Religious, Donor. 
Capable ot d%ing work, interested in scent and 
Flowers, learned, famous, gentle, happy, Kind, 
donor, destroys enemies. 

Kopa Combust Troubles due to prolonged disease, addicted, 
defamed, blamed failure. 

Dukhi Enemy's *Not in position to give effect, may cause 
House disease 

Deena Neutral's Very distressed, poorand worried,fear from 
House King and enemies, away from social norms 

and law, dull face enmity with own people 

Vikala Company of Strengthless, Mean, Troubled by enemies, 
Malefics company of bad persons, being respected 

as servants of others 
—   * Not in position to give effect 

Khala In enemy's Trouble with wife, quarrels with enemies, 
House foreign, travel, poor and angry, interested 

in others monev 
—   * Powerless 

* In a sad mood unable to show any results 

* NOTE : The results of these were not available to me. Whatever 
I conclude from these will be discussed in the chapters on predictive 
methodology/judgement of horoscopes in Part II. 

43 



etc. during the dasa period. 

Planet in Swastha avastha results in sound health, gain from 
king or governemnt, education, fame, affection and love, 
marriage, prosperity, land and religious feelings etc. during 
dasa period. 

Mudit avastha of a planet during its dasa period such planet 
gives happiness from children, wealth, clothes, scent, calmness, 
interest in religious matters, vehicles tec. 

The Shanta avastha the planet showers happiness in regard 
to gain from land, acquisation of wealth, land, sons, wife, 
vehicles, education, honour fromkings and interest m religious 
matters. 

Dukhi Avastha of the planet destroys the good effects,causes 
sufferings, foreign visits, seperation from kith and kins, theft 
or fire, fear from king etc. 

Deena Avastha of a planet shows fall from psoition, opposition 
from brothers and friends, meaness, discardation from own 
people, sickness or sufferring from disease. 

Vikal Avastha of a planet will give during dasa period 
uneasiness, restlessness, worries (physical and mental), death 
of friends, wife, children, dearth of clothes, vehicles, trouble 
from thieves. 

The planet in Khala avastha causes quarrel, seperation, 
seperation from father, trouble from enemies, loss of wealth 
and land and the native criticises own men. 

Kopa avastha of the planet results in many kinds of troubles, 
loss of education, wealth, wife, children, troubles from son, 
eye trouble etc. 

Note: (1) Dr. B.V. Raman has given ten avasthas. For the 

44 



benefits of the readers, the different views of the 
sages are given here. 

(2) Retrograde planet has been put in SAKTA 
AVASTHA by learned astrologers. 

CONCLUSION 

General views of all the Sages are that : 

(i) Planets in Deepta Avastha give the most benefic results 
and give a happy gentle, kind and lovable nature, 
comfortable position with full respects, wealth etc. 
to the native during the dasha of that planet. 

(ii) The strength of a planet decreases from Deepta to Sukhita, 
Swatha, Mudita, Shanta, Sakta and so the power of giving 
good effects also reduces and becomes nil when the 
planets is prapeedita (Combust) where it becomes 
hundred percent malefic. In Phaladeepika the combust 
planet is defined as Vikal and treated 100% bad. It 
can be concluded that the combust planet is 100% bad. 

The ertects of each avastha as given in Mansagri and Parasara 
Hora are discussed above. Even after the study of the analysis 
given by the learned astrologers the students are supposed 
to frame their own methods based on these principles to 
interpret the position of the planet during the dasha period 
of that planet. 

4.4 OTHER AVASTHAS 

(a) Saint Parashara has also mentioned in detail about other 
Avasthas. Their effects should also be taken into account for 
predictive purposes. Weak Planets cause reduction in good 
effects, the stronger ones give greater effects such as: 

45 



LAJJITADI AVASTHAS 

(1) Lajjit Avastha (2) Garvita (3) Kshudita 

(4) Trushita (5) Mudita (6) Kshobhita 

(b) Still some more avasthas. 

SAYANADIAVASTHAS 

(1) Sayana (2) Upavesa (3) Netrapani 

(4) Prakasana (5) Gamana (6) Aagamanaa 

(7) Sabha (8) Agama (9) Bhojana 

(10) Nrityalipsa (11) Kautuka (12) Nidra 

These avasthas and their calculations with results are not 
discussed here. 

The Rashi chakra is simply a picture of heavens taken at the 
time of birth of the native. The planets and the stars and 
their corelation together with the signs of Zodiac in which 
the planet was transitting at the time of particular moment(the 
time of birth) governs the future of the native. The chart is 
nothing but a balance sheet of our past life or lives, containing 
our sanchit and prarabdha karmas. Out of the lawful sanchit 
karmas, some are to be enjoyed or suffered by the native in 
the present birth which are called prarabdha karma. These karmas 
can be known only after analysing the birth chart together 
with different vargas and, the dasha order. The promises (assets 
and liabilities) in thechart show sanchit karmas. The fructification 
of some during the present birth are known as prarabdha karmas 
which can be ascertained with the help of dasha order and 
future transit. The manushya yoni is karma yoni, so the native 
has a free will to do karma. With the help of the sincere efforts 
and punya karmas, service to the human beings and religious 

46 



.lecds, one can modify the evil effects and can also enhance 
i lie good effects. 

I lie characteristics of Rashi, Planets and their Avasthas etc. 
■ ire to be well understood before analysing the birth chart 
lor giving any prediction. 

Questions 

I. Explain the various planetary avasthas. How are these 
useful in predictive astrology ? 

1. What are the factors one should consider to ascertain the 
strength or weakness of a particular Bhava? 

k What do you understand by Uchchabhilashi and 
Neechabhilashi planet ? Is it important to know the effect 
of a planet ? 

4, What doyou understand about the relation between house, 
lord of the house and Karaka of that house 7 

5. What do you know about the strength of the planets and 
how it can be measured ? 

0. Describe the relationship between planets. How does it 
affect the avastha(position) of a planet 7 

7. Write your views on 

(a) Venus exalted, vargottam and combust. 

(b) Jupiter in debilitated Rasi in birth chart, exaltated in 
Navamsha. 

(c) The Moon is at 6°in Taurus and posited with Sun (6°) 

(d) Mars in Capricorn at 28° posited with Sunand combust. 

(e) Saturn at 3° of Libra and Saturn at 3° of Aries. 

47 



Chapter 5 

KARAKATWAS OF PLANETS AND 

HOUSES PART - II 

Astrology is a super science. There are many checks through 
which facts concerning a man's life can be verified before any 
prediction is given. We have learnt about the twelve zodiac 
signs and their lords/ twenty seven Nakshatras and their lords, 
characteristics of signs and planets, the point of deep exaltation, 
debilitation etc. of planets and their avasthas and also the twelve 
houses and their functions. 

These planets give results of specific houses (Bhavas) of which 
they are lords together with the Karakatwas assigned to them 
(Refer chapter 3). 

Illustration ; The ninth house deals with father. 9th house, 
the lord of the 9th bhava and the Karaka for the 9th house 
representing father- all the three will have to be considered 
to know about the status of the father of the native. 

KARAKATWAS : 

(1) Atma Karaka etc. 

(2) Permanent significator (sthir Karaka) 

(3) Karaka according to karaka planets and Bhavas 

(4) Karaka for 12 houses (Bhavas) 

(5) Karakas irom Bhavas 

(6) Yoga Karaka planets. 

5.1 ATMA KARAKA ETC. 

The planet out of the seven planets (from the sun to Saturn), 
which has traversed maximum number of degrees in a sign 



or the planet which has maximum degrees (excluding the 
signs traversed) is Atma Karaka. 

The Atma Karaka is chief amongst other Karakas. He has 
full control over all the affairs of the native. If the Atma Karaka 
is adverse, other karakas can not give their benefic effects 
(fully). 

If the Atma Karaka is favourable, other karakascan notfrustrate 
the promises of Atma Karaka with their malefic influences. 

(a) The planet next to (lower in degrees) Atma karaka 
is Amatya Karaka. 

(b) The planet next to Amatya Karaka is Bhratru Karaka. 

(c) The planet next to Bhratru Karaka is Matru Karaka. 

(d) The planet next to Matru Karaka is Pitru Karaka. 

(e) The planet next to Pitru Karaka is Putra Karaka. 

(f) The planet next to Putra Karaka is Gnati Karaka. 

(g) The planet next to Gnati Karaka is Dara (Stree) Karaka. 

Note: (i) Some say that Rahu will become a Karaka when 
there is a state of similarity, in terms of longitude 
between (two) planets. In Rahu's case deduct his 
longitude in that particular sign from 30. Rahu 
is also added to the seven planets from Sun to 
Saturn. 

(ii) There are many controversial and unsettled issues 
regarding inclusion of Rahu in the above karkas. 

(iii) In jaimini astrology the total karkas are seven 
only. The karaka at (e) PITRU KARKA is not 
considered there. 

5.2(a) In case of two planets having the same longitude both 
of them will be qualified for that particular Karaka in which 

49 



case or the last karakatwa Venus (constant significator or 
Sathir Karaka) should be considered in the matter of marriage 
etc. as Dara Karaka. 

5.2(b) CONSTANT SIGNIFICTOR (STHIR KARAKA) 

In this case there is no consideration of longitude. The planets 
are assigned fixed significations to be used for certain 
Karakatwas attached to them. 

Planets Karakatwa 

The Sun/Venus The stronger of the two indicates father 

The Moon/Mars The stronger of the two is mother 

Mars Sister, brother-in-law (wife's brother). 
Younger brother and mother, in special 
cases. 

Mercury Maternal relatives 

Jupiter Paternal Grand father, husband, sons 

((HfllHe :. "TfcnpfJ ) 

Venus Husband (TJsfclc| hPci :) 

Saturn Sons, in special cases CpT; 

Ketu Parents-in-law, maternal grand father, 
paternal grandmother. 

(f^fP^dlfu-l: Tcdt fqml TEfTJTi cT^TT 

Rahu Paternal grand father, maternal grand 
mother. 

5.3 KARAKA ACCORDING TO KARAKA PLANET AND 
BHAVA 

9th from the Sun Father (Pitru Karaka) 

3rd from Mars Brother (Bhratru Karaka) 

4th from Moon Mother (Matru Karaka) 

50 



6th from Mercury Maternal Uncle(Matula Karaka) 

5th from Jupiter Son (Putra Karaka) 

7th from Venus Wife (Stree Karaka) 

8th from Saturn Death (Mrityu Karaka) 

5.4 KARAKA FOR 12 HOUSES (House significance or House 
Karakatwas) 

Karaka Bhava 

Sun 1st Bhava (self, soul, constitution etc.) 

Jupiter 2nd Bhava (kutumbha, money matters etc.) 

Mars 3rd Bhava (co-borns, parakrama etc.) 

Moon 4th Bhava (mother) 

Jupiter 5th Bhava (santan) 

Mars 6th Bhava (shatru) 

Venus 7th Bhava (wife, mental happiness) 

Saturn 8th Bhava (Ayu) 

Jupiter 9th Bhava (dharma, bhagya etc.) 

Mercury 10th Bhava (karma etc.) 

Jupiter 11th Bhava (elder brothers and sisters) 

Saturn 12th Bhava (expenditure) 

In addition to what has been said above (by Parashara Rishi) 
each Bhava signifies many other aspects also. Some specific 
significations are as follows: 

Example : 

4th house Venus for conveyance 

9th house The Sun for father 

12th house Ketu for moksha 

5th house Jupiter for education 

51 



KARAKAS FROM HOUSES (SPECIAL KARAKAS) 

I house denotes soul and self - Atmakarak 

II house denotes wife 

XI house elder brothers or sisters 

III house Younger brothers or sisters 

V house Putra Karaka 

VII house Stree Karaka 

V house Planets positioned in 5th also called Stree 
Karakas 

The above Karakas are very useful in making a detailed study 
of the birth horoscope. 

Note; The different type of karkas described by Sage 
Prasara may be difficult to understand because of 
differences in views at some places. But a thorough 
understanding and deep concentration will be very 
useful in making use of these principles in predictive 
astrology. 

5.6 YOGA KARAKA PLANETS 

Rishi Parashara had said that some planets become auspicious 
due to their position in a particular horoscope. 

(i) If the planet in exaltation, own house, friend's house 
and also in kendra (1,4,.7,10,) from each other becomes 
- Yoga producing (specially auspicious) 

(a) If in the 10th house - very auspicious 

(b) If in the 1st, 4th, 7th, - auspicious 

(ii) If in kendra from the Lagna and also in kendra from 
each other the planets become very auspicious. 

52 



A native born with such a combination even if is born in a 
low family, he is bound to rise high. If born in royal family, 
he will certainly become a king. 

This aspect will be discussed in detail while dealing with 
Yogas and Yoga Karakas in the chapters following. 

QUESTIONS 

1. What do you understand by Karakatwas? How are char 
karakas determined? 

2. Which planets are the sthir karakas for : 

(a) Father 

(b) Mother 

(c) Paternal grand father 

(d) Maternal grnad father 

(e) Paternal grand mother 

(f) Wife 

(g) Son 

(h) Husband. 

3. How are karaka for karaka planets and bhavas found. 

4. Name the karaka for 4th, 5th, 6th, 8th, and 12th, bhavas, 

5. What do you know about yoga karaka planets 7 

6. Is the use of karkas necessary? Give your comments. Show 
the difference, by citing any example, in predictions 
without/with the use of karkas. 

53 



Chapter 6 

THEORIES OF BIRTH TIME 

RECTIFICATION 

6.1(a) Mostof the horoscopes when relied upon without proper 
checkingresults into failure of predictions. It therefore becomes 
necessary to verify the accuracy of the mathematical calculations 
of the horoscope. Another problem is that the parents do not 
note the exact time of birth either due to non availability of 
watches or for other reasons. The doctors in hospitals too are 
not aware of theimpotance of birth time for astrological purposes. 

There is a controversy about the time of birth whether the 
correct time for birth is (i) First sight of the part of body (ii) 
Fall out of the body on floor (or table) or (iii) first cry of the 
child. The nurses or doctors attending to the delivery are 
first concerned about the safe delivery of the child and sometime 
it results into noting down the time of birth incorrectly. 

While the importance of the correct instant is so much, we 
cannot lay any hard and fast rules which will enable us to 
find out this exact instant. It is accepted by learned astrologers 
that the exact time of birth is the time when the umbilical 
cord is cut. It is the time when the child becomes an independant 
body. The child was getting, until then, everything with the 
help of mother's body. Now an independant function of the 
body of the child starts, and the child takes his first breath. 
The time of first cry can also be taken. In many cases the 
child does not cry for many hours. It can again pose a problem. 

6.1 (b) Sage Varahamihira had stated that the planetary position 
m the birth horoscope and those at the time of conception 



are found to have intimate connection. 

While describing the various combinations governing the 
process from conception (garbhadhan) to delivery of the child, 
the importance of the Moon as a source of impregnation etc. 
has been proved. Therefore it is possible to rectify the time 
of birth by adjusting the Moon and Ascendant at birth and 
at conception. 

Sage Varahmihira observes in Brihat Jataka as under ; 

Find the particular Dwadashamsha of a sign which the Moon 
occupies at the time of conception (garbhadhan). Note the 
number of dwadashamsha or the Rashi in which this 
dwadshamsha falls. Count from this Rashi as many Rashis 
as the number of dwadashamsha represented by 
dwadashamsha in question (the dwadashamsha of Moon at 
the time of conception). The transit of Moon in the Rashi so 
found in the month of delivery, the birth of a child may be 
expected. 

Example : 

Moon is 6s10o25l. Here Moon is posited in Tula. The number 
of dwadashamsha is fifth, which falls in Kumbha. The number 
of dwadashamsha is five, so count fifth Rashi from Kumbha 
i.e. Mithuna. So the birth of the child can be when Moon 
transits Mithuna (fifth Rashi from Kumbha). 

6.1(c) ACCORDING TO DR. B.V. RAMAN : 

"This branch of Astrology (birth verification and rectification) 
does not come within the scope of a beginner or an amateur. 
And birth times can be rectified only by men of experience 
by a consideration of pronounced life events". 

6,1 (d) In case of Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, there was 

55 



a controversy among the learned astrologers about the lagnas 
of the two charts. In case of Indira Gandhi the horoscope 
was discussed in astrological articles taking her lagna as 
karka or Simha. Since 1982, the predictions were given, taking 
her lagna as Karaka lagna and also on the basis of Simha 
lagna. She died in October 1984 but the astrologers could 
not reconcile on her correct lagna, The same was the case of 
Rajiv Gandhi's horoscope. We will simply say that to fix the 
correct birth time, is a very difficult task before an astrologer, 
but an experienced astrologer can do this rectification on the 
basis of the past events of the life. 

6.2 For theoretical purpose, for the student of/yobs/i Prauee/i, 
we discuss some of the rules which are generally accepted 
by learned astorlogers; 

Note; One of our student's lagna has been fixed as Sagittarius 
by some, others have fixed Capricorn as lagna. The predictions 
have been given by both the groups. The high percentage of 
predictions from Sagittarius have come True. But the native 
himself being a learned astrologer could not decide about 
his correct lagna. 

To find the Nakshatra of birth 

Multiply the time interval between Sunrise and tune of birth 
(converted into Ghatis) by four and divide the product by 
nine. The remainder must give the ruling constellation when 
counted from Ketu's nakshatras (Ashwini, Magha or Moola). 

Example I : 

(A) Bio-data (Tools for calculation) 

Date of Birth= 19-9-1931 Sunrise = 6Hrs 12mts 

Time of Birth= 3-30 a.m. (1ST) Sunset = 18Hrsl9mts 

Place of Birth = Delhi Sun's longitude = 5S207' 

56 



janma nakshatra (as per horoscope) = Moola I pada 

(B) No. of hours passed from sunrise to Birth Time 

= 21 Hrs 18mts 

(C) Time difference at (B) converted into Vighatis 

= 53 Ghatis 15 Vighatis 

or 3195 Vighatis 

(D)Now calculate Janma Nakshatra 

= 3195 x 4 - 9 

= 1420 0/9(fully divisible) 

Remainder is 0 

This shows some minor correction is required here as the 
remainder should have been one (Moola Nakshatra). 

If we make correction of ( — ) 2 Vighatis and take Vighatis as 
3193 the position is as under : 

3193 > 4^ 9 = 12772 + 9 = 1419 1/9 

Remainder is One i e. nakshatra is Moola. The correct time 
should be fifly three Ghatis and thirteen Vighatis after sunrise. 

Txample II ; 

V) Bio-Data (Toois for calaculation) 

Date of Birth -- 10-6-1933 Sunrise = 5hrs 27mts 

Time of Birth - 9-11 am (15T) Sunset - 19hrs 13mts 

Place of Birth = Delhi Sun s Longitude = ls 25053' 

Janma Nakshatra ~ Purva Phalguni IV 

(as per horoscope) 

(B) Number of hours passed from Sunrise to birth time 

=- 3hrs 44mts 

(C) Time difference converted into Vighatis 

57 



= 9 Ghatis 20 Vighatis 

or 560 Vighatis 

(D) Now calculate Nakshatra 

= 560 x 4 h- 9 = 248 8/9 

According to this calculation there is a wrong result.Hence 
the time of birth needs some rectification as we have done 
in the earlier Example No.l. Then correct remainder should 
be two instead of eight (as counted from Magha, Phalguni 
is Number two) 

If we make correction of (+) 3 Vighatis to 560 and get 563 
Vighatis as corrected time the position is as under : 

563 x 4 h- 9 = 2252 ^ 9 = 250 2/9 

we get remainder = 2 

Nakshatras counted from Magha is Purva Phalguni. 

Therefore the corrected Time = 9 Ghatis 23 Vighatis 

Here we have seen that a minor adjustment in time of birth 
was required. In the first case the time was reduced by two 
Vighatis or forty eight seconds to birth time. In example II 
the time is to be increased. 

6.3 TO FIND LAGNA AT BIRTH 

This method will be applied after taking into account the 
corrected time of these very cases. Let us see the the results 
. In this method we will check Ascendant (Lagna) As we know 
the Lagna is the sign of Zodiac rising in the Eastern horizon 
at time of birth. At time of sunrise the sign where Sun is 
posited rises in the East. The portion traversed by the Sun 
in that sign till the previous day will be the last to rise in the 
East. The exact point (longitude of the Sun in that sign on 
a date) of that sign at which Sun is posited at Sunrise in the 
East. After that Rashis one after the other at interval of about 

58 



i wo hours, rises turn by turn till the next sunrise. The part 
of the sign upto the elapsed degrees of sun, rises just before 

unrise and the sign just opposite to the sunsign (seventh 
• ign) rises at sunset. The sign fourth from Sun's sign rises 

■it midday , the tenth from Sun's sign rises at the horizon at 
midnight and so on. It is clear that the Ascendant of a Birth 
i hart is totally linked to the position of the Sun. The following 
i'\amples may be studied and the formulae may be tried on 
lite horoscope in your records (having correct Planetary 
positions and time of birth). 

I xample I : (Refer to the bio - data given in the example 6.1) 

( A) (i) Sun's longitude = 55 207' or 

= 5s 2.12° 

(ii) Number of Ghatis passed from sunrise 

= 53 Ghatis 13 Vighatis 

(as corrected in the example) 

or 53.22 Ghatis 

( H) Multiply number of Ghatis at(A) by 6 (ii) 

= 53.22 X 6 = 319.32 

(( ) Add Sun's longitude (devoid of sign) to (B) 

= 319.32 + 2.12° = 321.44 

(I)) divide the product (arrived at C) by 30 (because each 
|v'.ishi is of 30°) 

= 321.44 + 30 = 10 21.44 /30 

I ) Add 1 to the quotient =10+1=11 

i) Counted from Sun's sign (Kanya) the Lagna is 

= 11 + 5 = 16 -12 = 4 —> Karka Rasi 
(11th from Kanya) which is correct 
as Lagna of the native is Karka 26045, 

59 



Example II : 

(A)Sun's position = ls25053' or Is 25.9° 

Number of Ghatis passed from sunrise 

= 9 Ghatis 23 Vighatis or 9.38 

(B) Multiply number of Ghatis at (A) by 6 = 9.38 * 6 

= 56.3 

(C) Add Sun's longitude(devoid of sign) to(B)= 56.3 + 25.9 

= 82.2 

(D) Divide the product by 30 = 82.2 30 

= 2.22/30 

(E) Add 1 to the quotient =2 + 1=3 

(F) Count from the Sun's sign i.e. Vrish the Lagna is 
Ka rka(Cancer) 

Third from Taurus is Karka (Cancer). 

By applying this method we have calculated Karka Lagna 
for this native which is correct as per horoscope with us. 

6.4 BIRTH TIME RECTIFICATION 

The above discussions were to correct the birth time. This 
whole exercise is a must for an astrologer before he makes 
any forecast about the native. To correct Lagna there are many 
other methods. According to Maharishi Parashara no Lagna 
is to be taken as correct until Lagna is tested by 'Pranpada' 
method, 'gulika' or 'Mandi'etc. 

Let us discuss a few such general methods : 

The principles are: 

(a) Moon signs and the sign of Lagna is the same. 

60 



( ase I; 

Here lagna lord is Moon herself. The lord of Moon sign is 
in lagna and lord is in the house of Moon sign lord. 

Merc / 
Rahu Sum.. 5 / Asc. \ 3 

Ven V/ J upiter 
y Ketu 2 

Asc. 6 / 
Female Jupiter 4 / 

Mars 7 X. 1 
Example I Mercury 

10 N 
8 /12 

Sun ^Rahu 
9 Nv / 11 

Moon Mars Venus Moon \ 
Sat(R) Ketu Sat (R) 

Case II: 

Lagna in 8th from Moon sign and Moon is in 6th from Lagna. 
But Moon sign lord is in 9th from Moon sign. Moon is in 5th 
from Moon sign lord. 

v Jupiter Mercury / 
Sun Venus Mars Venus / 

Mercury NjCetu/1 

NX Asc. ^^/Sun 
Rahu ^ Asc. 6 

4 / \ 2 

Male 
/ 7 1 \ 

Example II Jupiter 
X10

Sat (R) Mars  \ 
Ketu 

8 Sat (R) 12 

Moon 9 N / 11 \ 
/ Moon ' Rahu 

(b) Lagna falls in 5th or 9th from Moon sign. 

(c) The lord of the Moon sign is in 5th or 9th from Moon 
sign. 

C5 (i) If a person is born within the first half of the day, 
calculate seventh from the Nakshatra associated with 

61 



Sun. Lagna will fall in the sign indicated by tha| 
Nakshatra. 

(ii) If a person is born in the second half of the day, calculaM 
the twelfth Nakshatra from Ravi's Nakshatra. The sign 
indicated by the nakshatra will be his Lagna. 

(iii) If a native is born during first half of the night, sign 
indicated by seventeenth Nakshatra from sun's 
Nakshatra will be the Lagna. 

(iv) If the native takes birth during second half of night, 
the Lagna will fall in twenty fourth Nakshatra from 
the Nakshatra of Sun. 

Other Opinions 

(v) If a person is born after midday before the Sunset, 
from Sun's constellation the 12th Nakshatra indicates 
Lagna. 

(vi) If a native is born within midnight the ninteenth 
Nakshatra, and if after midnight the twenty fourth 
Nakshatra from the Nakshatra of Sun will indicate 
the Lagna. 

Test : In second case the principles are not applicable 
— Sun is in Mrigshira I (25053'). (rule i). 

In first case it applies (rule iv). Sun is 207' (second pada) in 
Nakshatra no. 12 (U. Phalguni). The birth is of second half 
of the night, the twenty fourth Nakshatra is (24+12-27) ninth 
i.e. Ashlesha. Ashlesha falls in karaka. So native has karaka 
Ascendant. 

6.6 ANOTHER METHOD (Use of Rahu, Sun and Lagna) 

Add the number of Rashi where Rahu is posited, number of 
lagna sign and number of Sun (which is to be reckoned as 

62 



one always) add 3 to the product and divide by 7. 

If remainder is even number chart of female 

If remainder is odd number chart of male 

Case I : Rahu is in sign number = 12 

Number of lagna = 4 

Number of Sun = 1 

17 

Add 3 = 17 + 3 = 20 

Divide by 7 = 20 7=2 6/ 7 (Rem. 6) 

Remainder is even = A Female chart. 

Case II; Rahu is in sign number = 11 

Lagna is in sign number = 4 

Number of Sun = 1 

16 

Add three = 16 + 3 = 19 

Divide by 7 = 19^-7 = 2 5/7 (Rem. 5) 

Remainder is odd = A Male chart. 

6.7 Here the stress is on the characteristics of the sign in 
which Lagna falls. The construction of the physical body will 
be depending upon the sign of lagna or Moon. 

(a) In case of Fiery or airy signs the native will be seldom 
fat. 

(b) If lagna falls in earthy or watery signs the native may 
be fat or bulky. The signs owned by Jupiter, Venus and 
Moon watery planets, if these are (PAC)1 with lagna, 
may also cause fatness. 

1. P = Posited, A = Aspect, C = Conjuction 

63 



(c) If lagna or Moon are aspected by Rahu, it will result in 
Lean and dry looking body and skin without glamour. 

(d) If Mars effect is on lagna or Moon - Native's body will 
be strong, well built etc. 

(e) If Venus aspects — curly hair, beautiful eyes, lustre or 
grace etc. 

(f) If Saturn aspects lagna or Moon (PAC) will not be fat 
and will have more hair. 

(g) Sun in lagna will give strong body, bald head, royal 
gait. 

(h) Moon's effect will give soft body, beautiful face and 
curly hairs and large beautiful eyes. 

(i) Mercury'seffect will give medium height soft body and 
greenish skin. 

The Gulik or Mandi and Pranpada etc. can also be used to 
rectify the birth time. The same will be used in later volumes. 

6.8 CONCLUSION 

The methods discussed above are some of the methods used 
for fixing the lagna and also correct Nakshatras. This helps 
us in rectification of birth time. 

The most dependable method is of casting atleastSaptavargas, 
calculation of mahadasha, antardasha and pratyantar dasha 
and also calculate transit for the important events of life of 
the native. Every event is to be tallied with these three major 
factors (i) Promise in the chart (ii) Its fructification according 
to dasha etc. (iii) Timing of the event with the help of transit. 
All these can be done only when at least sufficient knowledge 
of Astrological principles and their applications are well 
understood. The student must learn the subject from some 

64 



experienced, learned astrologers and also gain experience 
in the company of his guide or Guru only then the rectification 
of birth time becomes possible. 

Dr. Raman has given us a large number of books to study 
the subject. The future generation will be indebted to him 
for his service to the divine science. The Indain Council of 
Astrological Sciences (Regd.) Madras through its chapters 
all over India, specially Delhi Chapter I, under the guidance 
of the great astrologer of this century Dr. B.V. Raman is 
propagating astrology. Since 1987 Delhi Chapter is conducting 
astrology classes, with a scientific approach, to prove the 
utility of this divine science We always stress the need for 
verification of the birth chart with the past events of the life 
of the native. Unless the past events are verified, no future 
prediction should be given and if there is any need the necessary 
correction in time of birth etc. is to be made ; 

"Our approach should be from known to unknown." 

This subject can be well explained to the research students 
with ten or twenty examples but here we have to learn and 
understand the above principles thoroughly. 

QUESTIONS 

1. What are the methods by which you can rectify birth time 
in case of doubt? Try them on any chart from your data. 

2. Which time (of birth) is taken, for casting of horoscopes? 
Is it possible to correct the birth time? 

65 



Chapter 9 

DASHA AND ANATRDASHA 

CALCULATIONS 

7.1 We have read aboutthenakshatrasand their lords, planets, 
signs, bhavas and how to cast a chart etc. With this background 
a student can read the birth chart as under : 

Longitudes : 

Lagna = 193 1 Sun = 1680-22' 

Moon = 120 • Mars = 207o-39' 

Mercury = 193 1 Jupiter = 30°-25' 

Venus = 205 ' Saturn = 2290-57' 

Rahu = 103o-36 Ketu = 2830-36' 

Ayanamsha = 20 • 

Jupiter SaturnAsr.\^ Sun /C 
\ 8 Venus \ 6 yT 
\/ Merrury 

9 Mars sc 5 
/ \ Moon 

M.K.Gandhi Rahu 
October 2, 1869 N. 7 
7: 4.-' a.m LMT Ketu 1 4 R a h u 

Ketu Lat. = 21° 37' N Moon 
Long. = 69° 49' E 

11 \y/ > 
A sc. 

Saturn Venus Sun / 2
Merc  Nv 
Mars upiter 

Note : Horoscope taken from the book Notable Horoscopes by Dr. 
B.V. Raman. 

READING OF BIRTH CHART 

Lagna lord Venus posited in lagna. The lord of second house 
Mars is posited in lagna. The lord of third house Jupiter is 



posited in eighth house. The lord of fourth and fifth house 
Saturn is posited in second house. The lord of sixth house 
Jupiter is posited in the eighth house. The lord of seventh 
Mars is posited inlagna.Thelord of the eighthhouse Venus 
is posited in lagna. Thelordofninth house Mercury is posited 
in lagna. The lord of tenth Moon is posited in eleventh house. 
The lord of eleventh house Sun is posited in twelfth and the 
lord of twelfth Mercury is posited in the lagna. 

GENERAL SYNTHESIS 

1. Lord of the lagna and eighth house Venus is posited 
in Lagna which is his own sign. 

2. Lord of second (Dhanasthana) and seventh (Kalatra 
Bhava) Mars posited in the Lagna. 

3. Mercury - lord of ninth (Dharma, Bhagya sthana) 
and lord of twelth (house of expenditure, bed 
comforts, foreign country, Moksha etc.) also posited 
in the Lagna. 

4. Saturn lord of fourth (education, landed property, 
mother, domestic life, etc.) and lord of fifth (education, 
children, punyas of past births) is posited in the 
second house. (Dhana, Kutumba, eyes, etc.) 

5. Third Bhava has no planet. But the lord of third is 
posited in the eighth house. 

6. Fourth house has Ketu and lord of the fourth, the 
dispositor of Ketu, i.e. Saturn, is posited in second. 

7. Fifth, sixth, seventh houses do not have any planet, 
but their lords are in the second, eighth and lagna 
bhavas repectively. 

8. Jupiterlord of third and sixth houses posited in eighth 
or say eighth house has Jupiter, the lord of third 

67 



and sixth. The dispositor of Jupiter, Venus is posited 
in Tula rashi (own houes) in the lagna. 

9. Ninth house is vacant (house of Dharma, father etc.) 
However the lord of ninth is in lagna. 

10. The tenth house hasRahu and the dispositor of Rahu 
i.e. Moon is in eleventh house [Labha sthana - house 
of gains etc.) 

11. The eleventh house has tenth lord Moon, her 
dispositor Sun being posited in twelfth. 

12. The twelfth house has eleventh lord Sun and Lord 
of twelfth (dispositor of the Sun) Mercury is posited 
in lagna. 

SCRUTINY 

(i) TRINES AND SQUARES 

LORDS OF 
I  1 

Kendrasthanas Trikonasthanas 
(Squares) (Trines) 

Lord House Lord House 

Saturn 4th Saturn 5th 

Mars 7th Mercury 9th 

Moon 10th Venus 1st 

Venus 1st 

(ii) Connection between lords of Kendra (Squares) and 
Trikonas (Trines) 

(a) Saturn is both lord of fourth and fifth houses (connection 
of fourth and fifth lords) 

(b) Mercury, lord of ninth, posited with Venus, lord of first 

68 



house (association of lords of ninth and first). 

(c) The association of Mercury with Mars who is seventh 
lord (association of lords of ninth and seventh) 

(d) The association of Venus and Mars (association of lords 
of first and seventh). 

7.2 The above associations show tha t there 
is some connection between the lords of Kendras and 
Trikonas.Kendras are Vishnu sthanas and Trikonas are Lakshmi 
sthanas. This means that the combination of these two assures 
the grace (kripa) of both Vishnu and Laksmi (lakshmi Narayan). 
One is very lucky if he has their combined grace (kripa). It 
appears that the horoscope is very strong. 

7.3 Here we are to learn only the reading of birth chart 
on the basis of the knowledge we have acquired from the 
previous lessons. 

By doing this exercise we may be able to know the future 
awaiting the native or the accumulated karma phala of his 
past births known as Sanch.it Karmas. Some of the Sanchit Karmas 
are to be enjoyed or suffered in the present birth known as 
"Prarabdha". What are Prarabdha Karmas and when their results 
will manifest in the present birth. The great Rishis have devised 
many methods or tools to find out the answer to this question. 
One such great system is the system of Dasha (Celestial Period). 
These Dashas (Periods) are further divided into Antardashas 
(Sub-periods). 

7.4 Maharishi Parashara has given the following Dashas 
( Celestial Periods) of Planets ; 

Vimshottari, Ashtottari, Shodasottan, Panchottari, Satabdika, 
Chaturshiti-sama, Kalachakra, Chara, Sthira, Kendra, 
Brahmgraha, Yogardha, Shoola, Drig, Rasi, Panchaswara, 

69 



Yogini, Naisargik, Pinda, Sandhya, Ashtakvarga, Pachaka, 
Tara etc. 

As the Vimshottari Dasha is the most prevalent dasha we 
will discuss the same. 

Rishi Parashara also praised it as under ; 

Amongst all the dashas, Vimshottari is the most appropriate 
for the general populace. 

According to conception of Dashas in the Hindu system of 
Astrology the planet produce their effects (good or bad) in 
accordance with their dignities or indignities in their major 
or sub (antardasha) or sub-sub periods (pratyantar dasha). 

7.5 Rishi has further uttered : 

fsRTIHT-rRf 't£DfTTPJ): I 

^ll r) tl cieMI A "5,tell Pg^l] rl H 11 

In Kaliyuga the natural life span of a Human being is generally 
taken as one hundred and twenty years. Therefore, Vimshottari 
Dasha is considered to be the most appropriate and best of 
all Dashas. The lord of nakshatra is called the lord of dasha. 
Every planet has its own dasha period. 

If we begin from iCrittika, the lords of Dashas and their 
Nakshatras will be as ; 

Dasha Nakshatras Nakshatra Dasha Period 
Lord Number (years) 

Sun Krittika, Uttara Phalguni 3,12,21 6 
and Uttara Ashadha 

Moon Rohini, Hasta and 4,13,22 10 
Sravana 

70 



Dasha Nakshatras NakshatraDasha Period 
Lord Number (years) 

Mars Mrigasira, chitta (chitra) 5,14,23 7 
and Dhanishta 

Rahu Aridra, Swati and 6,15,24 18 
Satabhisha 

lupiter Punarvasu, Visakha and 7,16,25 16 
Poorvabhadra Pada 

Saturn Pushyami, Anuradha and 8,17,26 19 
Uttarabhadra Pada 

Mercury Ashlesha, Jyestha and 9,18,27 17 
Revati 

Ketu Magha, Moola andAshwini 10,19,1 7 

Venus Pubha (Poorvaphalguni) 11,20,2 20 
Poorva Ashadha and Bharani 

Total no. of years 120 

7.6 BHUKTA AND BHOGYA DASHA 

We have learnt that the Moon transits over these constellations 
(27 in number) roughly at the rate of one hour forty eight 
minutes (4V2 Ghatis) per degree of this space i.e. the degree 
of the Nakshatra traversed or travelled by Moon [Bhukta dasha) 
will be ignored and the balance of degree yet to be traversed 
by Moon will be taken into account for calculating the Bhogya 
Dasha available at birth out of the total period assigned to 
that Nakshatra. 

^flMR tRTGR I 

To calculate the Bhogya Dasha (Balance of dasha operating 
at the time of birth) : 

71 



Multiply the dasha period (of the planet who is lord of that 
Nakshatra in which the Moon was posited at the time of birth) 
by the period of stay of the Moon in that Janma Nakshatra 
that has expired and divide it by the total period of the stay 
of the Moon in that Nakshatra. The figure in years, months, 
days etc. so arrived at will show the expired period (Bhukta 
dasha) of the dasha. 

This figure when deducted from the total period of the dasha 
(allotted to that planet who is janma Nakshatra lord) will give 
the balance of dasha (bhogya dasha) to be enjoyed by the 
native at the time of birth. 

7.7 CLASSICAL METHOD OF CALCULATION 

Example : Suppose the Moon is in Mrigasira Nakshatra at 
the time of birth whose lord is Mars. The expired period of 
Mrigasira is fifty six ghatis and fifty five palas (or 3415 palas). 
The total period of Mrigasira (time taken by Moon to traverse 
the Mrigasira nakshatra) is fifty nine ghatis thirty one pala 
(or 3571 palas). 

3415 x 7 3571 

(Total of expired period (x) No. of years allotted to Mars (4-) 
the total period taken by Moon to traverse Mrigasira Nakshatra) 

= 23905 h- 3571 

= 6 years - 8 months - 9days - 54ghati - 47 pal is Bhukta dasha. 

Deduct this from total period of 7yrs we get ; 

years months days ghatis palas 

Total period of Mars 7 0 0 0 0 
dasha 

Bhukta dahsa 6 8 9 54 47 

Bhogya dasha 0 3 20 5 13 

72 



Therefore 3 months - 20 days - 5 ghatis and 13 palas are the 
balance of Mars period available at the time of birth. 

Thismethod is based on panchangas and isknownas traditional 
(or classical) method. 

7.8 MODERN METHOD 

Today the Researchers in Astrology have devised many simpler 
method to calculate the balance of dasha at birth. For this 
we have to know the longitude of the Moon and the Janma 
Rashi. 

In the earlier lessons wo have read that there are twenty seven 
nakshatras (covering 360 degrees), each nakshatra measures 
thirteen degrees twenty minutes and has four padas each 
measuring three degrees twenty minutes. Such nine padas 
(measuring 3 degrees 20 minutes) of 2V4 Nakshtra comprise 
a Rashi (sign) of thirty degrees. The start of both Nakshatra 
and Rashi chakra is from zero degrees Aries (the first point 
of Zodiac). 

Note : To find the position of the nakshatra from the longitude 
of the Moon, please refer to the charts: 

CHART I 

Beginning of Nakshatra Division and Vimshottari Dasha 

Nakshatra Longitude Lord of Nakshatra 
No. Name s - d - m and Period (years) 

1. Ashwini 0-00-00 Ketu 7 

2. Bharani 0-13-20 Venus 20 

3. Krittika 0-26-40 Sun 6 

4. Rohini 1-10-00 Moon 10 

5. Mrigasira 1-23-20 Mars 7 

73 



6. Ardra 2-06-40 Rahu 18 

7. Punarvasu 2-20-00 Jupiter 16 

8. Pushya 3-03-20 Saturn 19 

9. Aslesha 3-16-40 Mercury 17 

10. Magha 4-00-00 Ketu 7 

11. P.Phalguni 4-13-20 Venus 20 

12. U.Phalugni 4-26-40 Sun 6 

13. Hasta 5-10-00 Moon 10 

14. Chitra 5-23-20 Mars 7 

15. Swati 6-06-40 Rahu 18 

16. Vishakha 6-20-00 Jupiter 16 

17. Anuradha 7-03-20 Saturn 19 

18. Jyestha 7-16-40 Mercury 17 

19. Mula 8-00-00 Ketu 7 

20. P. Ashadha 8-13-20 Venus 20 

21. U. Ashadha 8-26-40 Sun 6 

22. Sravana 9-10-00 Moon 10 

23. Dhanisha 9-23-20 Mars 7 

24. Satabhisha 10-06-40 Rahu 18 

25. P.Bhadrapada 10-20-00 Jupiter 16 

26. U.Bhadrapada 11-03-20 Saturn 19 

27. Revati 11-16-40 Mercury 17 

1. Ashwini 00-00-00 Ketu 7 

It is seen that the first cycle of nine dasa lords starts (from 
0° Aries to 30° Cancer) Ketu, Venus, Sun, Moon, Mars, Rahu, 
jupiter, Saturn, Mercury, second from 0° Leo to 300Scorpio 
and last from 0° Sagittarius to Pisces 30°. 

74 



CHART II 

To find out balance of Vimshottari Dasha by Longitude of 
the Moon 

I.ong. of Moon in Mesha, Moon in Vrisha Moon in Mithuna Moon in Ketu 
Moon Simha, Dhanu Kanya, Makara Tula, Kumbha Vrishchika,Meena 

o ♦ y - m - d y - m - d y - m - d y -m - d 

Ketu 7-0-0 Sun 4-6-0 Mars 3-6-0 Jup 4 - 0 - 0 
0- 20 6-9 -27 4-4-6 3-3-27 3-7-6 

6-7 -24 4-2-12 3-1-24 3 - 2 -12 
1 - 00 6-5-21 4-0-18 2 -11 -21 2 - 9 -18 
1 - 20 6-3 -18 3 -10 -24 2-9-18 2 - 4 -24 
1 - 40 6-1 -15 3-9-0 2-7-15 2-0-0 
2- 0 5 -11 -12 3-7-6 2-5-12 1-7-6 
2 - 20 5-9-9 3-5-12 2-3-9 1 -2-12 

5-7-6 3-3-18 2-1-6 0 - 9 -18 
3- 0 5-5-3 3-1-24 1-11-3 0 - 4 -24 
3 - 20 5-3-0 3-0-0 1-9-0 Sat 19 - 0 - 0 
3 - 40 5-0 -27 2-10-6 1-6-27 18 - 6 - 9 
4- 0 4 -10 -24 2-8-12 1-4-24 18 -0 -18 
4 - 20 4-8 -21 2-6-18 1-2-21 17 - 6 -27 

4-6 -18 2-4-24 1-0-18 17 - 1 - 6 
5- 0 4-4 -15 2-3-0 0 -10 -15 16 -7 -15 
5 - 20 4-2 -12 2-1-6 0-8-12 16 - 1 -24 
5- 40 4-0-9 1 -11 -12 0-6-9 15 - 8 - 3 
6- 0 3-10 - 6 1-9-18 0-6-6 15 -2 -12 

3-8-3 1-7-24 0-2-3 14 -8 -21 
6 - 40 3-6-0 1-6-0 Rahul8 -0-0 14 -3 -0 
7 - 0 3-3 -27 1-4-6 17 - 6 -18 13 - 9 - 9 

3-1 -24 1-2-12 17-1-6 13 -3 -18 
7-40 2 -11 -21 1 - 0 -18 16 - 7 -24 12 9 -27 
8 - 0 2-9 -18 0 -10 -24 16 - 2 -12 12 - 4 - 6 
8- 20 2 7 15 n - ' - v •: 9 0 11 10 -15 

o 
oo  

o (N Tf 
1 1 

OTf  oTf  OTT  o(N  O(N  



Long, of Moon in Mesha, VIoon in Vrisha Moon in Mithuna Moon in Ketu 
Moon Simha, Dhanu Kanya, Makara Tula, Kumbha Vrishchika,Meena 

o y - m - d y - m - d y - m - d y -m - d 
2 5 -12 0-7-6 15 - 3 -18 11 - 4 -24 

9- 0 2-3-9 0-5-12 14 -10 - 6 10 -11 -3 
9- 20 2-1-6 0-3-18 14 - 4 -24 10 -5 -12 
9- 40 1-11 - 3 0-1-24 13 -11 -12 9 -11 -21 

10- 0 Ketu 1-9-0 MoonlO - 0 - 0 Rahul 3 -6-0 Sat 9-6-0 
10 - 20 1-6-27 9-9-0 13 - 0 -18 9-0-9 
10 - 40 1-4-24 9-6-0 12-7-6 8 -6 -18 
11 - 0 1-2-21 9-3-0 12-1 -24 8 - 0 -27 
11 - 20 1-0-18 9-0-0 11 - 8 -12 7-7-6 
11 - 40 0 -10 -15 8-9-0 11-3-0 7 - 1 -15 
12- 0 0-8 -12 8-6-0 10 - 9 -18 6 - 7 -24 
12 - 20 0-6-9 8-3-0 10-4-6 6-2-3 
12 - 40 0-4-6 8-0-0 9 -10 -24 5 -8 -12 
13 - 0 0-2-3 7-9-0 9-5-12 5 - 2 -21 
13- 20 Ven 20-0 - 0 7-6-0 9-0-0 4-9-0 
13- 40 19-6 - 0 7-3-0 8-6-18 4-3-9 
14- 0 19-0 - 0 7-0-0 8-1-6 3 - 9 -18 
14 - 20 18-6 - 0 6-9-0 7 - 7-24 3-3-27 
14 - 40 18-0 - 0 6-6-0 7-2-12 2 -10-6 
15- 0 17-6 - 0 6-3-0 6-90 2 -4 -15 
15- 20 17-0 - 0 6-0-0 6-3-18 1 -10 -24 
15 - 40 16-6 - 0 5-9-0 5-10-6 1 - 5 - 3 
16- 0 16-0 - 0 5-6-0 5-4-24 0 -11 -12 
16- 20 15-6 - 0 5-3-0 4 -11 -12 0 - 5 -21 
16- 40 15-0 - 0 5-0-0 4-6-0 Mer 17 - 0 - 0 
17- 0 14-6 - 0 4-9-0 4-0-18 16 - 6 -27 
17- 20 14-0 - 0 4-6-0 3-7-6 16 - 1 -24 
17-40 13-6 - 0 4-3-0 3-1-24 15 - 8 -21 
18- 0 13-0 - 0 4-0-0 2-8-12 15 -3 -18 
18- 20 12-6 - 0 3-9-0 2-3-0 14 -10 -15 

76 

00 

o 



Long, of Moon in Mesha, Moon in Vrisha Moon in Mithuna Moon in Ketu 
Moon Simha, Dharu Kanya, Makara Tula, Kumbha Vrishchika.Meena 

O 1 y - m - d y - m - d y - m - d y -m - d 
18 - 40 12-0 - 0 3-6-0 1-9-18 14 -5 -12 
19- 0 11-60 3-3-0 1-4-6 14 - 0 - 9 
19- 20 11-0-0 3-0-0 0 -10 -24 13 - 7 - 6 
19 - 40 10-6 - 0 2-9-0 0-5-12 13 - 2 - 3 
20 - 0 10-0 - 0 2-6-0 Jup 16-0-0 12 - 9 - 0 
20 - 20 9-6-0 2-3-0 15-7-6 12 - 3 -27 
20 - 40 9-0-0 2-0-0 15 - 2 -12 11 -10 -24 
21 - 0 8-6-0 1-9-0 14 - 9 -18 11 -5 -21 
21 - 20 8-0-0 1-6-0 14 - 4 -24 11 -0 -18 
21 - 40 7-6-0 1-3-0 14-0-0 10 -7 -15 
22 - 0 7-0-0 1-0-0 13-7-6 10 -2 -12 
22 - 20 6-6-0 0-9-0 13 - 2 -12 9-9-9 
22 - 40 6-0-0 0-6-0 12 - 9 18 9-4-6 
23- 0 5-6-0 0-3-0 12 - 4 -24 8 -11 - 3 
23 - 20 5-0-0 Mars 7-0-0 12-0-0 8-6-0 
23 - 40 4-6-0 6-9-27 11-7-6 8 - 0 -27 
24- 0 4-0-0 6-7-24 11 - 2 -12 7 - 7 -24 
24 - 20 3-6-0 6-5-21 10 - 9 -18 7-2 -21 
24 - 40 Ven 3-0-0 Mars 6 - 3-18 Jup 10-4 -24 Mer 6 - 9 -18 
25 - 0 2-6-0 6-1-15 10-0-0 6 -4 -15 
25 - 20 2-0-0 5 -11 -12 9-7-6 5 -11 -12 
25 - 40 1-6-0 5-9-9 9-2-12 5-6-9 
26 - 0 1-0-0 5-7-6 8-9-18 5-1-6 
26 - 20 0-6-0 5-5-3 8-4-24 4-8-3 
26 - 40 Sun 6-0-0 5-3-0 8-0-0 4-3-0 
27- 0 5-10 - 6 5-0-27 7-7-6 3 - 9 -27 
27 - 20 5-8 -12 4 -10 -24 7-2-12 3 - 4 -24 
27- 40 5-6 -18 4-8-21 6-9-18 2 -11 -21 
28- 0 5-4 -24 4-6-18 6-4-24 2 -6 -18 
28 - 20 5-3-0 4-4-15 6-0-0 2 - 1 -15 

77 



Long, of Moon in Mesha, Moon in Vrisha Moon in Mithuna Moon in Ketu 
Moon Simha, Dhanu Kanya, Makara Tula, Kumbha Vrishchika,Meena 

O i 
y - m - d y - m - d y - m - d y -m -d 

28 - 40 5 - 1 - 6 4 - 2 -12 5 -7-6 1 - 8 -12 
29- 0 4 -11 -12 4 -0-9 5 - 2 -12 1 - 3 -9 
29- 20 4 - 9 -18 3 -10 -6 4 - 9 -18 0 -10 - 6 
29 - 40 4 - 7 -24 3 -8-3 4 - 4 -24 0 - 5 - 3 
30- 0 4 - 6 - 0 3 -6-0 4 -0-0 0 - 0 - 0 

Chart III 

Proportional Parts for Dasha of Planets 
(To be subtracted from the balance of dasha for increase by minutes of the 
Moon's Longitude) 

Ketu Venus Sun Moon Mars Rahu Jupiter Saturn Mercury 

(7y) (20y) (6y) (lOy) (7y) (18y) (16y) (19y) (17y) 

m d m d m d m d m d m d m d m d m d 

1 0 3 0 9 0 3 0 5 0 3 0 8 0 7 0 9 0 8 

2 0 6 0 18 0 5 0 9 0 6 0 16 0 14 0 17 0 15 

3 0 9 0 27 0 8 0 14 0 9 0 24 0 22 0 26 0 23 

4 0 13 1 6 0 11 0 18 0 13 1 2 0 29 1 4 1 1 

5 0 16 1 15 0 14 0 23 0 16 1 11 1 6 1 13 1 8 

6 0 19 1 24 0 16 0 27 0 19 1 19 1 13 1 21 1 16 

7 0 22 2 3 0 19 1 2 0 22 1 27 1 20 2 0 1 24 

8 0 25 2 12 0 22 1 6 0 25 2 5 1 28 2 8 2 1 

9 0 28 2 21 0 24 1 11 0 28 2 13 2 5 2 17 2 9 

10 1 1 3 0 0 27 1 15 1 1 2 21 2 12 2 26 2 17 

15 1 17 4 15 1 11 2 8 1 17 4 2 3 18 4 8 3 25 

20 2 3 6 0 1 24 3 0 2 3 5 12 4 24 5 21 5 3 

78 



The modern method can be better understood with the following 
practical illustration. 

Example: 

Calculate the Moon's longitude for the given date and time. 
Let us see the horoscope of Mahatma Gandhi in Para 7.1. 

Moon's Longitude is 120o-10'or 4s0o10' or Simha 0o10' 

Refer to chart II. 

See below the column of Simha rashi against degrees 0°- 0' , 
the balance of Ketu = 7 years - Omonth - 0 day. 

Refer to chart III. 

Against ten minutes bleow the column of Ketu we find one 
month one day. Deduct this from seven years, we get 

= 6 years 10 months 29 days. 

This is the balance of Ketu dasha running at the time of birth. 

7.9 EFFECTS OF DASHAS 

Rishi Parashara says; 

wiptt r^i^-^inf fg[fW i 

mrm ^ -I ^ 11 

There are two kinds of effects of dashas: 

(1) General — The natural characteristics of planets causes 
general effects. 

(2) Distinctive — Planets give the effect of the lord of 
Rashi in which they are posited, the planet with whom 
posited or by whom aspected. 

Here the fourmalae given below will help us to remember 
this; P = Posited A = Aspected C = Conjuncted 

79 



So remember PAC for distinctive effect. 

For the present we may say that dashas are very important 
to be used for predictive purposes. 

Let us further explain the use of dasha from the following 
illustration: 

Mr. A has a pronotefor Rs. 10,000/- and also he has to pay 
Rs. 8,000 to some body. He is in a fix as to what to do, unless 
he knows that the date of maturity of the Pronote is before 
due date of payment of debt. If this is the position he is safe. 
He will get the money, before the due date of the payment. 
Who can help him for this , nobody except the maturity 
date on the pronote. 

The dasha plays the role of telling the maturity date. So we 
calculate the correct degrees of Moon and the balance of 
Vimshottari Mahadasha running at the time of birth. 

7.10 CALCULATION OF ANTARDASHA (Sub periods of 
the Mahadasha) 

There are more than one method of calculations, one of them 
is as under; 

(i) Mutiply the number of years of dasha of the planet 
whose Mahadasha (major period) is running by the number 
of years of the dasha of the planet whose anatrdasha is to 
be known. Divide the product by ten, the quotient will be 
month and remainder multiplied by three will indicate days. 

Example : Jupiter Mahadasha (16 years) 

The first antardasha will be of Jupiter, second of Saturn third 
of Mercury and so on (the order of dasha, sub and sub-sub 
periods is the same). 

80 



Jupiter = 16 x 16 = 256 -h 10 = 25 months —18 days 

or 2 years 1 month 18 days 

Saturn = 16 x 19 = 304 + 10 = 30 months-12 days 

or 2 years 6 months 12 days and so on. 

(ii) Another simple calculation is as under ; 

Jupiter (M.D.) / Jupiter (A.D.) 

By multiplying the number of years of the Mahadasha 
Nath and the Antardasha Nath we get ; 

(i) 16 x 16 = 256 

(ii) Divide the figure at (i) by 10 

we get 25.6 

(iii) 25 is Months and 6 if multiplied by 3 wi 11 give 
days 

i.e. 3 x 6 = 15 days 

The anatardasha period of Jupiter during Jupiter mahadasha 
will be 

= 2 years 1 month 18 days 

In this way the A.D. of any planet can be calculated. 

7.11 PRATYANTAAR DASHA (SUB-SUB PERIODS) 

To find out Pratyantar dasha, we will do in similar manner: 

Jupiter's antardasha in Jupiter's mahadasha 

= 2 yrs 1 mth 18 days 

Jupiter's pratyantar = 16 ^ 120 x 2-1-18 or 25 months 18 days 

768 = 120 x 16 

81 



6.4 x 16 

= 102.4 days 

= 3 months 12 days 9.6 hours 

Saturn = 6.4 x 19 = 121.6 

= 4 months 1 day 14.4 hours 

and so on. 

Another simple method is given under: 

Jupiter's pratyantar dasha in Jupiter's antardasha in Jupiter's 
mahadasha — 

16 x 16 x 16 = 512 days = 3 months 12 days 9 hours 36 min. 
40 5 

Saturn's pratyantar dasha in Jupiter's antardasha in Jupiter's 
mahadasha — 

16 x 16 x 19_= 608 days = 4 months 1 day 14 hours 24 min. 
40 5 

Note: The year is taken to be of 360 days. 

The students can practise any method which they think most 
easy and accurate. These methods can be used in similar ways 
for further reducing the dasha which will give the period in 
days and hours and so on.We can find out in hours and minutes 
also. This means it can be known that at a particular moment 
the period that is running is favourable or unfavourable. What 
will be the result of the particular action done at that time. 

7.12 The mahadasha gives us a perod as allotted to the 
planet. The antardasha brings down this period to a minimum 
of 3 Vz months and to a maximum of three years four months, 
and the pratyantar dasha further shortens the period to 

82 



5 days 9.6 hours (Sun/Sun/Sun) to maximum 6 months 20 
days (Venus/Venus/Venus). This process helps us to time 
the event within maximum period of six months. This can 
further be redcued to sookshma dasha (sub-sub-sub period)and 
so on, the formula for calculation is the same. 

The interpretation of the effects of the various dashas needs 
a very deep study and under standing of the astrological 
principles. It also needs practice to correlate all the information 
furnished in the previous lessons and the other principles 
to be discussed in other two volumes. 

A detailed study of the effect of the dasha system in day lo 
day life of the native will be provided in seperate book. 

83 



Chapter 8 

RESULT OF ASCENDING SIGINS 

After learning the twelve signs of the Zodiac, thier nature and 
characteristics and calculation of Ascendant sign or Lagna Rashi 
erection of Rashi chart and Navamasha chart etc., it has become 
easy to understand the effects of the signs or Rashis on the 
physical body of the native. What is Lagna? Lagna represent 
the native and his physical being, appearance, etc. This is the 
first house of the Brith chart. This is the point from which the 
counting of other houses (Bhavas) is made. The effects, of the 
other bhavas and planets posited in those bhavas, on the differnt 
aspects of life of the native are assessed with reference to this 
house (first house). If we are in a position to link the effect or 
characteristics of the signs and planets posited in Lagna it becomes 
easy to verify Lagna, after seeing the native's physical features, 
stature etc. 

We have also read about the rectiiication of the birth time, 
birth nakshatra and lagna. This study will also be helpful in 
verifiction of the birth time. In earlier chapters the discussion 
about the planets and their nature etc. has been done. The 
planets ruling different signs will also have their effect on 
the Ascendants falling in Rashi or signs ruled by them. 

The Ascendant is the first point from where the analysis of 
the chart and assessment of its strength is to be started. An 
astrologer should consider the effects of the sign, its lord, 
the Navamsha in which the ascendant falls and be sure about 
the correctness of Lagna before any prediction is ventured. 

The effects of Lagna falling in twelve signs of the Zodiac 



will be : 

8 1 ARIES (MESHA) 

Movable sign, fiery sign, odd, male, and lord is Mars. 

He will be active and will always be moving about. It will 
be difficult for him to be at one place continuously for a long 
time. He needs a change after sometime or a break while 
continuously working. He will have a certain amount of 
independent thin king and capable personality. He is 
courageous, frank, impulsive, aggressive temperament and 
easily irritable. He had a middle stature, an emaciated body, 
long neck (craning neck), good and developed bones, bushy 
eyebrows etc. 

They are often liable to extreme jealousy and easily accessible 
to adulteration. They suffer from nervous complaints, sexual 
diseases and piles. They think they are born to exercise 
authority. 

See the following chart : 

Alexender the great Date of Birth = 22-7-356 BC 

7 
A sc. Sat (R) Mars Sat (R), 

2 
Mars 

3 
Rahu Mercury 1 

Example I Mercury 4'\/ 10 
Sun 

Venus 7 
Ketu Surn 

Venus' Jupiter 
Ketu Moon 

Jupiter 5 / 6 
Moon 

(Refer page 17 of Notable Horoscopes by Dr. B.V.Raman) 

85 



8.2 TAURUS (VKISH) 

Earthy, fixed, even, female and lord is Venus. 

The native home in this Lagna will be of midle stature, (Plumpy 
body), broad and strong forehead, nose, cheeks and lips. Thick 
and stout neck, dark hair and swarthy complexion. He will 
be engaged in agricultural ventures. Fond of enjoying young 
women. His nature will be sacrificing and forgiving nature, 
will have marks or moles on the back, face and sides. If female 
native will be beautiful and attractive.They shine well as 
authors, publishers, journalists, lover of Truth and never bound 
by sentiments. They are business minded. 

X'Asc. \. Moon /\ Mars / 
ketu Mars Sun Moon \ Venus 

\ 3 > Asc. N. 1 yS 
Mercurv Venus 4 >c Sun \/ 12 

Mercury y\Ketu 

\ 2
OMAR  / \ 

/ 5 \y ii \ 
Saturn KHAYYAM 

/ 8 \ / 
Jupiter 6

Rah u \ / \X y/Jyufpoi ter 
yxSaturn 

7
Rahu  ^ / 9 \ 

(Page 58 of Notable Horoscopes by Dr. B.V.Raman.) 

They suffer from nervous complaints. Their memory and power 
of imagination will never deceive them. Because of passionate 
nature they may become preys to sexual diseases in their 
old age unless they moderate their pleasureand learn to exercise 
self-control. 

Versatile scholor, proficiency in diferentbranches of knowledge, 
mathamatician, metaphysician, philosopher, logician, doctor 
and talented poet. 

86 



GEMINI (MITHUNA) 

Airy, dual odd, male, lord is Mercury. 

When the Ascendant is Gemini, the native will have black 
eyes and curly hair.He will enjoy association with women 
and will have thick neck, elevated nose and many friends. 
He will like to remain indoors. 

7 
A sr. 

Ketu Mars 4 yS Asc. \ 2 / 
5 \/ Mars >< 1 

Queen of y/ X, 3 

France /Jupiter 6 \/ 12 Ketu Ns 
Marie \ Rahu 

\ / 9 ^ 
Saturn Antoinette 

Sun\. yS 
Moon Xy' 11 

Sun V onus 
Mm urv Moon J n [liter 7/ 8 \ y/ ION. 

Venus Rahu / McrcuryX y Saturn X. 

(Page 129 of Notable Horoscopes by Dr. B.V.Raman.) 

Unusually, above average height and well formed body, long 
slender hands, sharp nose, fast walk and clear speech, active 
and quick sight, cunning, wavering mind, mathematician, 
mechanic, jack of all trades with no specialisation. 

Sudden break downs, interested in moving with opposite sex, 
needs habit of self-control, liable to fraud and deception. 

She was charitable, an adept at mimicry, vivacious, proud, 
thick eye brows, light russet hair. She was always in the midst 
of confusion, intrigues, uncertanity etc. 

The most momentous event in her life took place in 1774 (Rahu/ 
Moon period) when the throne of the Bourbous with it's heritage 
of intrigue and political trouble devolved on Louis XV's heir 
and the young Antoinette became widow. She met with most 
tragic death. 

87 



8.4 CANCER (KARKA) 

Movable, watery, even, female, lord is the Moon. 

The native will have normally short stature, thick neck, friendly 
nature, thick waist, white complexion, frail constitution, fast 
walk etc. 

He will have low recuperative power, but becomes stronger 
at later age, very courageous, fond of water, intelligent, have 
few sons, attached to the family, extremely sensitive, may 
be interested in service to the society, has love affairs. He 
will be reputed in society due to good speech, serving nature 
and wisdom. Unhappy maried life. 

Persons who have Karka lagna : Shn Gautam Buddha, Shri 
Adi Shankracharya, Shri Ramanujcharya, chengiz Khan, Shri 
Thyagaraja etc. 

8.5 LEO (SIMHA) 

Fixed, odd, male, fiery, lord is Sun. 

Thenative will have full developed bones and broad shoulders, 
a big round or oval head, commanding appearance, speak 
sparingly, luxuriant hair, slender waist rosy or reddish 
complexion, eyebrows having an imposing royal and dignified 

Moon 
Saturn Ketu 

Guru Nanak 
8-11-1470 

Asc, 

Sun 
Rahu Mars Venus Jupiter 

Mercury 

88 



ippearance, strong and bold large chin, majestic appearance. 

lie will be arrogant, powerful, valiant, firm minded and 
obedient to his mother.-Fond of roaming about in forest and 
lulls, independent thinker, lover of literature, philosphical 
knowledge. 

He was born m Kshatriya Family, mystic dispositon, had deep 
and versatile learning and persuasive eloquence. He surprised 
his school master and parents by queer acts and utterances 
and occasional sallies of free thought. 

Shivaji and Aurobindo Ghose had Simha lagna. 

8.6 VIRGO (KANYA) 

Earthy, dual, even, female, lord is Mercury. 

Native has a slender body, usually below middle height, dark 
hairand eyes, curved eyebrows with much hairs, sweet speaker, 
quick walk, usually appear younger than actual age, drooped 
shoulders. 

He will be truthful and will speak kindly, versed in shashtras, 
takeadvantageof other people's houses and wealth, will posses 

\ Moon 
Sun Mcrcurv Venus Rahu 
Kotu Saturn 8 Asc. \ 5 

Ny/j upiter 
/\Mars 

Mars 
Harry ] upiter N. 6 / 

Truman MV/A Venus \ 
8-5-1884 

/ 12 \ 
1° \/Merc, 

/\Sat 
Moon Asc y/ UN / 1 \ 
Rahu Sun 

Ketu \ 

(Pages 37, 275 and 346 of Notable Hor0scopes by Dr. B.V. Raman) 

89 



few sons, intelligent, middle sized persons and exhibit tast^ 
in art and literature, emotional and will be carried away b^| 
impulses. Author, interested in Physical and chemical sciences, 
modest, thoughtful, economical and cautious sometimes rather 
undecided but usually precise though nervous and looking 
self confident. They can judge things at a glance, great 
philosophical writer. 

They are liable to suffer from nervous breakdown and paralysis 
when the sign is afflicted, lucky in marital relations. 

Jesus Christ, Harry Truman (President) 

8.7 LIBRA (TULA) 

Movable, airy, odd, male, lord is Venus. 

Tall, usually long face, curly hair, lean body and uneven limbs, 
fine skin and gleaning eyes, physical beauty, truthful 
disposition, baldness in capital region in middle age, possess 
a lean and thin body, tall, fair complexion, fine eyes. 

Mercury Venus Saturn 

9 \8 y \ 6
 Asc. \/N /e tu 

Jup /xAJoon 
Rahu 7 / V 
Sun Sri 

Chaitanya Mars 10\/4 
Mars 18-2-1486 Moon 

Ketu y 1 
11s 

Rahu Venus Nc 3 
Sun 

Jupiter Saturn Asc. ^12 N 2 
MercurJN. / 

(Page 79 of Notable Horoscopes by Dr. B.V. Raman) 

He will respect Gods and Brahmins, will be active, havt 
few children, fond of wandering, brave, merciless, impartial 

90 



in his arguments only, keen observer, sharp reasoning, firm 
in conviction and unmoved by mean motives, more idiealist 
than realist, they build castles in the air, they are not sensitive 
to what others say of them, they are also not easily amenable 
to reason, their domestic life may see frequent tensions. 

Those who have Tula lagna ; Akbar the great, Hyder Ali, 
Narshimha Bharti, Shri Ramana Maharishi, Nizam of 
Hyderabad, Adolf Hitler. 

8.3 SCORPIO (VRISCHIK) 

Fixed, watery, even, female, lord is Mars. 

The native will have medium size and well proportioned body 
and fleshy and broad limbs, fearless eyes, broad face, short 
nose, round belly and long fingers, robust health failing through 
the natives's own faults and negligence, short, thick and curly 
hair, will have rounded thighs and knees. 

\ Ketu /\ Venus Sun/ 
Moon Rahu N. Saturn / Merc / 

Jupiter \ 9 / \ 7 / 
10 Asc. 6 

Chittranjan / \ 8 

Das C 11 x' 5 Mars \ 
5-11-1870 

Mars y/ 2 

Moon \/ yc 4 
Venus 12 /\ 

Ketu Asc. Mercury / 1 \ / 3 \ 
y/ Rahu Ny 

Saturn Sun ' Jupiter \ 

(Page 231 of Notable Horoscopes) 

He will be honoured by king. His feet will bear marks of 
lotus, generous disposition, fickle minded, inclined to sensual 
things in reality while they will not hesitate to philosophise 
upon the merits of controlling sensual pleasures. If female, 

91 



may have masculine tendencies. Friendly nature, may be expert 
musicians if interested, proficient in fine arts, dancing. They 
may have their independent opinion but will not clash with 
those holding opposite ones. They are silent and dignified 
and never speak before weighing each and every word.They 
are writers, they rely on their own intelligence. Married life 
may not be quite happy due to temperamental differences 
or due to illness affecting the generative system of the partner. 

Others who had Vrischik lagna : Pope Pius XII, Benito 
Mussolini, Kasturi Srinivasan. 

8 9 SAGITTARIUS (DHANU) 

Dual, fiery, odd, male, lord is Jupiter. 

The native will have long face and neck, big nose and ears. 
He will have well developed, handsome figure, fairly large 
and prominentforehead, usually tall, loud voice, clear eyes, 
light brown hair, reddish complexion, fat thighs and belly. 

He will always keep himself engaged in some work or other. 
He will have good speech and sacrificing tendencies, short 
stature. He will be courageous and can overcome his enemies. 
He can be won over by persuasion and kindness. 

\. Venus Sun /N. 
Mars Kctu \. Merc / \ Rahu yS 

\ 10 / \ 8 / 
11 X/ Asc 7 

/\JUP 
Vivekanand / \ 9 

/ 12 X'6 Moon \ 
Venus 12-1-1863 Saturn S 

Mercury \ / 3 \ 
1 \ / 

Sun Mars XX 5 

Asc, Rahu jupiter Moon / 2 \ / 4 \. 
Saturn Kelu y/ 

(Page 192 of Notable Horoscopes) 

92 



Jupiter is the ruler of this sign and persons born in this Lagna 
will generally be inclined towards corpulence^hlegmatic 
temperament. They are some what conventional and sometimes 
business like. They be attracted towards the study of occult 
philosophy and sciences and will acquire mastery. They hate 
external show, are god fearing, honest,humble and free from 
hypocrisy. They exercise control over their food and drinks 
habits. They are brilliant, their manners affable, winning and 
have pure hearts. 

They may suffer from lungs diseases, rheumatic pains etc. 
They will exercise their powers and with firmness and justice 
and without yeilding to corruptible influences. 

Emperor Nero, Swami Vidyaranya, Tippu Sultan, Swami 
Vivekanand, V.D.Savarkar, Dr. Rajendra Prasad. 

8.10 CAPRICORN (MAKAR) 

Earthy, movable, even, female, lord is Saturn. 

The native will have emaciated body, thin face akin to that 
of a deer, dark coarse hair, a bright and elevated nose, lot 

\ Venus Sun 
Mars Jupiter \Merc. Sat/ Moon y' 

Xn / Asc. \ 9 / 
12 X/ Ketu 8 

Venus Mars /X. 
Mercury Rahu 

Sun M. S. v 10 / \ 
Saturn Golwalker / 1 X/7 \ 
r 

Asc. 18/19-2-1906 
Ketu 4 \ 

Jup \/ Rahu 6 

Moon / 3 \ / 5 

(Page 377 of Notable Horoscopes by Dr. B.V.Raman) 

93 



of hair on the head, long hands, long legs, weak lower limbs, 
will have vitality, but lazy nature, tall in size, reddish brown 
colour and large teeth, fleshy lips. 

He will indulge in affairs with old women on the forbidden 
category. He will be religious hyprocrite, fond of wandering, 
fortunate, shameless. They have the knack of adjusting 
themselves to cirumstances and environments. 

He will suffer from wind diseases. 

They have great aspirations in life and cannot economise funds 
even if they were to be under the influence of adversity. They 
are modest, liberal and gentlemanly in business transactions. 

They are noted for their perseverance and strong mindedness. 
They possess sympathy, generosity, philanthropy, interest 
in literature, science, educatiom, vindictive, god fearing and 
humble. If the ninth house is well fortified they may become 
philosophically minded or develop social consciousness. 

Those who had Makar Lagna ; Herbert Georgewells, Edward, 
Duke of Windsor. 

8.11 AQUARIUS (KUMBHA) 

Airy, fixed, odd, male, lord is Saturn. 

Middle Stature, towards tall, usually well built and strong, 
fair complexion, light brown hair, sharp nose, can walk longer, 
kind disposition, lean, fairly handsome, attractive appearance, 
fleshy lips. 

He may commit sinful actions secretly. He will have little 
wealth, fluctuating financial position, will be greedy and eager 
to usurp or utilise other peoples money, clever in causing 
hurt to others, fond of perfumes,highly intelligent and make 
others their friends very soon, pure in heart, inclined to help 

94 



Venus Ketu Jupiter \ Venus /Vsc. X. Mars / 
\12 / Mercury x iO / 

1 Moon 
Sun X 9 

^ Asc. 
Mercury 

Sun Sri \ 11 / 
Moon Ramakrishna Z Ketu 2 AC 8 Rahu 

Paramhamsa / 5 
Mars 3\ / 

JUP Sat 

Rahu Saturn y/ 4 ^ 6 

(Page 160 of Notable Horoscopes by Dr. B.V. Raman) 

others. They shine as writers and good spokesman, they are 
intuitive and good judges of character, they lack organising 
capacity, devoted to their family. 

They are liable to suffer from colic troubles and must take 
special precautions to safegaurd against diseases. 

Those who had Kumbha lagna : Prophet Mohammed, 
Aurangzeb, Abraham Lincoln, Karl Marx, Dr. B.V. Raman. 

(Refer to Pages 49, 97, 140, 149 and 401 of Notable Horoscopes) 

8.12 PISCES (MEENA) 

Watery, even, female, dual, lord is Jupiter. 

The native will have fulland plumpy pigure, round shoulders, 
well blown nose, attractive eyes, broad belly, prominent hps 
and teeth, silky and light hair, beautiful body, fair, stout, 

moderately tall. 

He will be learned, grateful, satisfied with his wife and fortune. 
He will have financial gains from selling produce of the sea. 
He will overcome his enemies. He will be reserved in his 
manner and is liable to draw premature conclusions on any 

95 



matter. God fearing, superstitious, religious, rigidity in 
observance of orthodoxy principles and can forego anything 
but his orthodoxy. He is ambitious to exercise authority over 
others. He will be restless and fond of history, antiquarian 
talks, mythological master places, lack of self confidence. 

Those who had Pisces lagna : Rabindra na th Tagore, 
D.Eisenhower (Refer to Pages 189, 258 and 323 of Notable 
Horoscopes). 

8.13 We have examined the effects of Lagna falling in d if fern t 
signs (Rashis) of Zodiac. We can know about the native from 
this analysis of the chart. Whatsoever have been declared 
the effects arising out of a particular Lagna (falling in particular 
sign) should also be said to come to pass, if that sign is occupied 
by the Moon. So the above information about the native can 
be known from lagna as well as from the Moon sign (Moon 
lagna) The examination of the sign occupied by lagna and 
the Moon will give information about the stature, face, eyes, 
character, inclination, wisdom, prone to diseases etc., but 
this is to be further confirmed from the Navamsha occupied 
by the lagna lord and the Moon-sign lord 

Here we mean to clarify that the above information is helpful 
to arrive at a correct sign of lagna. With the help of "Physical 
Features" and other characteristics ascribed to various signs 
of Ascendant (Lgana) and to justify the physical construction, 
the nature and deeds of the native can be compared. The 
information regarding the "Physical Features" should not be 
literally applied. We cannot fix ascendant unless the various 
other influences present in the horoscope (effects of planets 
posited in different houses, in lagna, with lagna lord, with 
Moon etc.) are also considered wisely. 

96 



Chapter 9 

ASPECTS (DRISHTI) 

9.1 We have lea nil a bout the cha racier is tics of signs (Rash is) 
and planets (graha) Ihe positions (Avvasthas) of planets by 
virtue of their motion in the Zodiac ( or say in signs of exaltation, 
debilitation, friends house, own house, enemy's house etc. or 
retrograde, Arceleration etc, ) show that the planet is strong or 
weak. If the planet is in - 
(i) Pradeepta, Sukhita, Su astha, Mudita and Shanta the results 
will be very good 
(n) Vikala, Nipidila (torturi'd sav defeated in Planetary war) 
Khala, Kshudhit, Atibheela etc. will give very bad results. 

9 2 The above effects of the planets are modified if they 
are associated with other planets. The association or connection 
or relation between the planets can be : 

(A) Due to their positions 

(1) in the same house or conjunction 

(2) in each other's nakshatras 

(3) having exchanged houses 

(B) Due to their aspect (Dnshti) on each other) 

(1) A planet aspecting other planet 

(2) A planet aspecting other planet and in turn aspected 
by other plandt (Mutual Aspects). 

The 'A' above is understood because we have learnt that the 
planets own some houses and Nakshatras. 'B' is yet to be 
taught. Now we will discuss about the "Aspects". The aspect 



of the benefic planet increases the good effects of the planet/ 
house aspected by it. The aspect of malefic reduces the good 
effects of the planet/house aspected by that planet. 

Example : 

(a) Sun is aspected by Jupiter 

Jupiter is the most benefic planet. So aspect of Jupiter is 
good. This will increase the good effects to be given by 
'Sun' or reduces the malefic effects to be given by 'Sun'. 

(b) 'Sun' is aspected by Saturn 

In this case : 

(i) Saturn will cause reduction in the benefic effects to 
be given by 'Sun' 

(ii) Satumwill result into enhancement of the malefic effetcs 
to be given by 'Sun'. 

Note : The above examples are given just to explain the simple 
effect of aspect of a benefic or a malefic planet. Here we have 
not taken into account many other valuable interpretations 
and points which are necessary to be considered before any 
conclusion is taken for the effect of the aspects of a planet 
on other planets. 

These can be discussed after understanding/ learning the 
subject thoroughly. 

9.3 Aspect of the planets have also a major effect in 
fructification of the results of any planet. The aspect are counted 
from sign to sign. They are good or bad according to the 

(i) relation of the aspecting planet with the planet aspected. 

(ii) the malefic or benefic nature of the planet who is 
aspecting. 

98 



Maharishi Prashara : According to him every planet has full 
aspect on the seventh house from its position. (Example ; 
Mars posited in Mesha gives full aspect on Tula Rashi, the 
seventh house from Mesha where Mars is posited). 

9.4 SPECIAL ASPECT 

Three planets in addition to aspect on the seventh house have 
full aspect on some other houses too. These aspects are : 

(i) Mars has fourth and eighth aspect in addition to 
the seventh. 

(ii) Jupiter has fifth and ninth aspect in addition to seventh 

(iii) Saturn has third and tenth aspect in addition to seventh 

The planets have two additional aspects which are considered 
to be full aspects, in comparison to other planets. 

9.5 RAHU AND KETU 

(A)The question of the seventh aspect is not there, because 
one of them is in the seventh from the other. So the one 
and seven axis is always covered by their positions. The 
effect of their axis covers both the houses occupied by 
them. The only difference is of their positions which can 
be explained as under ; 

Rahu is posited in Mithuna (Gemini) Ketu automatically 
falls in (Sagittarius) Dhanu exact 180° opposite to Rahu. 
So both Mithuna and Dhanu are affected by their axis 
(these two planets). We may say Rahu is aspecting Dhanu 
or Ketu is aspecting Mithuna by their seventh aspect, but 
it is not required at all. 

(B) There is difference due to position : 

99 



(a) Rahu in Mithuna is treated as exalted. Rahu's effect 
on Mercury's sign will be different from the position 
of Ketu in Mercury's sign (Mithuna) 

(b) Ketu if posited in Mithuna, the axis will be same 
effecting both Mithuna and Dhanu, but the position 
of Ketu in Mithuna is in a debilitation sign. Ketu's 
effect on Mercury (Budha - Wisdom) is better than 
the Rahu's effect on Mercury. 

Note : There is difference of opinion regarding the sign of 
exaltation of Rahu and Ketu. Rahu in Vrish (Taurus) is also 
treated as exalted. Ketu in Vrishchika (Scorpio) is treated as 
exalted. We may study both, in practice the results are found 
more while treating Rahu exalted in Vrish (Taurus) the sign 
of Venus. 

There is controversy on the aspects of Rahu and Ketu. Dr. 
B.V. Raman has also talked about this in his book HINDU 
PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY. 

Some learned astrologers take Rahu's seventh aspect and no 
aspect for Ketu as Ketu is treated as blind. According to 
Venketeshwar Daivangya Rahu and Ketu have full aspect 
on the seventh house only. 

Some learned astrologers are taking Rahu's fifth, seventh, 
ninth and twelfth aspects as full aspects and fourth and eighth 
as 3/4th, third and tenth as l/4th aspects. 

9.6 The following table will help the students to understand, 
the subject : 

(Table hasbeen taken from HINDU SCIENCE OF THE FUTURE 
by Learned author Shri Harihar Majumder). 

100 



ON THE HOUSES FROM HIS POSITION 

Planet Full aspect Three-fourth Half Aspect One-fourth 
Aspect Aspect  

Sun 7lh 4th & 8th 5th & 9th 3rd & 10th 

Moon -Do- -Do- -Do- -Do- 

Mercury -Do- -Do- -Do- -Do- 

Venus -Do- -Do- -Do- -Do- 

Special Aspects of Planets 

Mars 4th, 7th, 8th — 5th & 9th 3rd & 10th 

Jupiter 5th, 7th, 9th 4th & 8th — 3rd & 10th 

Saturn 3rd, 7th, 10th 4th & 8th 5th & 9th — 

Rahu 5th, 7th, 9th -Do- — -Do- 
and 12th 

9.7 There are many other aspects such as Jaimini, Tajak 
etc, the beginners should first fully understand these aspects 
and may not get confused. The learners should never mix 
one system with the other in a hurry to learn everything. 

Sahaj Pake So Meetha Hoey ! " nidi " 

Means : The fruit which takes its usual time to ripen is always 
sweet and healthy. This is very true here also. 

9.8 Here we have taken each house as under : 

1) 3rd house from 60° to 90° 

2) 10th house from 270° to 300° 

3) 5th house from 120° to 150° 

4) 9th house from 240° to 270° 

101 



5) 4th house from 90° to 120° 

6) 8th house from 210° to 240° 

7) 7th house from 180° to 210° 

Note : This may be useful in case the effect of aspect is seen 
from degree to degree. 

9.9 SOME OF THE ASPECTS ARE TREATED VERY GOOD 

1) If a planet aspects its own sign by seventh or special aspects 
will certainly increase the significations of that house. 

2) When benefic planet aspects the other benefit planet 

3) When a yoga Karaka planet aspectes the other yoga karaka 
planet. 

(Here Yoga Karaka', means a planet which is lord of fifth 
or ninth on one hand and also lord of either fourth or seventh 
or tenth on the other hand. This aspect will be taken up in 
later chapters). 

The effect of thenaturaTBenefic' and 'Malefic' planets cannot 
be ignored on the ground that they are functional benefic 
and malefic. In the advanced courses the students will learn 
how to calculate the 'Graha Bala' and 'Bhava Bala' which 
only reveal the exact quantum of the strength of the planets 
and their aspects. Here it is sufficient to undersatnd that the 
aspect of benefic planets is always favourable and the aspect 
of malefic planets is not always favourable. 

We believe that the Jupiter's aspect sprinkles Ganga Jal (holy 
water of river Ganga). If any Bhava is aspected by Jupiter, 
though the lord and the house are both badly afflicted, the 
native is bound to get some favourable results in respect of 
that Bhava. 

102 



9.10 ACCORDING TO WESTERN ASTROLOGY 

(As discussed by Dr. B.V. Raman in his book HINDU 
PRTEDCITIVE ASTROLOGY) 

The aspects are reckoned from mutual longitudinal distances 
of planets. When one planet is at a certain number of degrees 
away from another body, they are said to be in aspect : 

Orbs of Aspect 

Conjunction: If two heavenly bodies are in the same 8° 
Longitudes 

Opposition; When the distance between two bodies is 
180 degrees 

Trine: When the distance between two bodies is 8° 
120 degrees 

Square: When the distance between two bodies is 8° 
90 degrees 

Sextile: When the distance between the two bodies is 7° 
60 degrees 

Parallel: When two bodies have the same declination 1° 
(Kranti) 

Declination: (which can be calculated according to Graha 
and Bhava Bala) 

The effect of an aspect is felt even if the planets are not exactly 
in the mutual distances (mentioned above as between the 
two heavenly bodies), therefore a so-called orbs of aspect 
(as shown above) are taken. 

9.11 The influnece of an aspect (e.g. sextile) starts when 
the planets are fifty three degrees away from each other, 
gradually increases and will be maximum at sixty degrees. 
After that point starts decreasing till the difference is sixty 
seven degrees where it is nil. 

103 



The good or bad nature of aspects depends upon the angle 
of aspects. The opposition (180 degrees) and square (90 degrees) 
are always said to be evil irrespective of the nature of the 
planets forming the aspects. The sextile (60 degrees) and 
the trine (180 degrees) are always good. 

9.12 In Vedic Astrology the aspects are good or bad according 
to the nature and characteristics of the planets. The aspects 
of the most benefic planet Jupiter will be always good, if it 
happened to be functional benefic the benefic results are 
assured. If Jupiter posited in Mesha aspects Saturn in Tula, 
which is an opposition aspect and is bad according to western 
astrology. This is an absolutely wrong inference according 
to Vedic Astrology and the results experienced by the learned 
astrologers. 

It would be better to practice and get the results. But here 
for examination purposes we are concerned with our Vedic 
system. 

9.13 Let us understand the subject from the discussion of 
the horoscope of Sri Chaitany a (Page 79 of Notable Horoscopes) 

A. Conection/relation between Planets: 

(i) Mercury in Jupiter's sign and debilitated 

(ii) Venus in Mars sign 

(iii) Mars in Saturn's sign and exalted 

(iv) Saturn in Mars sign 

(v) Exchange of houses by Saturn and Mars 

(vi) Sun in Saturn's sign (enemy's sign) 

(vii) Moon in Sun's sign 

(viii) Sun and Rahu conjunct or posited together 

(ix) Ketu and Moon conjunct or posited together 

(x) Jupiter in own sign. 

104 



Mercury Venus 
6 /5 
i/KpIii 

un XVIOOII 
Rahu 
Sun Sri 

Chaitanya Moon 10 
Mars Moon 

18-2-1486 Ketu 11 \ / 
Rdhu \/ 
Sun Venus 

lupiicr Saturn A sc. / 12 \ 
/ Merc \ 

B. Aspect : Now let us discuss about the aspect ; 

(i) sun is aspocling Moon (7th aspect) 

(ii) Mars is giving 8th aspect to Moon 

(iti) Jupiter's 9th aspect is on Moon 

(iv) Saturn's 10th aspect is on Moon 

(v) Mars is giving 4th aspect to Venus 

(vi) Jupiter's 5th aspect is on Venus 

(vii) Saturn's 3rd aspect is on Mars 

(viii) Venus is aspecting lagna. 

9.14 Let us discuss the effects of the planets on each other 

(1) Moon's association with Ketu 

(2) Mars aspect on Moon and 

(3) Saturn's tenth aspect on Moon are all said to be evii 
aspects 

(4) The aspect of Jupiter is the benefic aspect which wil 
prove favourable for Moon. 

(5) The aspect of Sun and Moon though results in Ful 
Moon (giving power to Moon). 

105 



The natural malefic Saturn, though a Yoga Karaka planet for 
Tula lagna being lord of fourth and fifth bhava, gives a malefic 
aspect on Moon. The aspect is bad. 

The natural benefic planet Jupiter being lord of third and 
sixth is a functional malefic, but being a natural benefic is 
a saving grace upon Moon (lord of tenth house and karaka 
of mother). 

Refer para 5.6 

Saturn is the most favourable planet in this horoscope, which 
will play very important roles in the life of the native. Saturn 
gets strength due to lordship of fourth and fifth (yoga karka) 
and also because of exchanges between Mars (second lord) 
and Saturn (fourth lord). The position of Saturn has covered 
second, fourth, eighth and eleventh houses. 

9.15 The PAC (P means position A means aspect and C 
means conjunction), is a formula devised to know the effect 
of the planet and is very useful for making predictions. 

Example : Venus karaka of of seventh is posited in seventh. 
Venus lord of lagna and eighth house is posited in seventh. 
Venus is aspected by Mars lord of seventh and second. Venus 
is aspected by Jupiter the lord of seventh and sixth. 

The aspects of all the planets on Venus, the position of Venus 
in Mesha and seventh house etc. are very important factors 
to be considered before giving any predictions. This aspect 
is discussed in detail in the third volume for predictive 
astrology. 

106