THE
TWELVE HOUSES

Exploring the Houses of the Horoscope

Howard Sasportas



To my parents, with love



I am proud to have the opportunity to republish this seminal work on the
astrological houses, and I would like to thank the following for their contributions
to this new edition: Jane Struthers, Deana Necic, Tamara Stamenkovic, Melanie
Reinhart, Laura Boomer-Trent, Erin Sullivan, Darby Costello, Liz Greene,
Barbara Levy and Marc Gerstein.

Frank Clifford, Flare Publications, 12 May 2007

    
Howard took enormous pleasure from the knowledge that he would be leaving
behind a respected and well read collection of writings. Perhaps the cornerstone
of his work is The Twelve Houses. As his executor and lifelong friend, I share his
pleasure in knowing that this work will continue to be read and appreciated by the
next generation of astrologers.

Marc Gerstein, Executor to the estate of Howard Sasportas



ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Many people have helped, supported and tolerated me through the agony and ecstasy of
writing this book and my sincere appreciation extends to all of them.

In particular, an especially heartfelt thanks goes to Max Hafler for all we shared and
for pushing me in the beginning; and to Robert Walker for pushing me through the
middle and end, for his excellent advice, criticism and suggestions, his patient support
through my more difficult periods, and just for being there when I needed help.

My appreciation also goes to Mary Ann Ephgrave for her adept transcription of the
‘Houses Seminar’; to Christine Murdock for her expert and much needed help,
guidance and encouragement; to Lesley Cottrill for her professional advice; and to
Sheila Sasportas for her warm support.

I am naturally indebted to all those people who have shared their knowledge with me
over the years. Special acknowledgements go to Maharishi Mahesh Yogi for his
invaluable teaching and for the experience of meditation and what it opened up for me;
to Darby Costello for titillating me with her Geminian insights and for introducing me
to astrology way back when; to my first astrology teachers, Betty Caulfield and Isabel
Hickey; to Ban Begg for helping me to begin to understand myself a little better; to Ian
Gordon-Brown, Barbara Somers and Diana Whitmore for the enormous amount I
learned from them; to Judy Hall for her generous and constant support, wisdom, healing
and help; and a very warm thanks to Liz Greene whose insight and grace as a good
friend, teacher and astrological colleague have left a deep mark on all my work.

Two more people deserve special mention. Words can’t express my feelings of
appreciation to a certain Dona Margarita, Our Lady of Gomera, for sharing with me the
power of her Leonine love and spirit and for providing me with an idyllic atmosphere
(in all senses) to begin writing. And last, but certainly not least, I am especially grateful
to Jaqueline Clare for being a true friend through all of this and for the impeccable
diagrams she so caringly produced.

Howard Sasportas, 1985



CONTENTS

Foreword by Liz Greene (2007)
Foreword by Liz Greene (1985)
Introduction
   
Part I: The Landscape of Life 
   
1. Basic Premises
2. Space, Time and Boundaries
   
Part II: Mapping the Journey 
 
3. The Ascendant and the First House
4. The Second House
5. The Third House
6. The Imum Coeli and the Fourth House
7. The Fifth House
8. The Sixth House
9. The Descendant and the Seventh House
10. The Eighth House
11. The Ninth House
12. The Midheaven and the Tenth House
13. The Eleventh House
14. The Twelfth House
15. Grouping the Houses
 
Part III: A Guide to Life’s Possibilities
 
16. General Guidelines: The Planets and Signs through the Houses
17. Ascendant Types
18. The Sun and Leo through the Houses
19. The Moon and Cancer through the Houses
20. Mercury, Gemini and Virgo through the Houses
21. Venus, Taurus and Libra through the Houses
22. Mars and Aries through the Houses
23. Jupiter and Sagittarius through the Houses
24. Saturn and Capricorn through the Houses
25. Uranus and Aquarius through the Houses



26. Neptune and Pisces through the Houses
27. Pluto and Scorpio through the Houses
28. The Moon’s Nodes through the Houses
29. The Possible Effects of Chiron through the Houses
30. A Case Study
 
Concluding Thoughts
Appendices

      1. The Twelve Houses: A Summary of Key Concepts
      2. The Question of House-Division

 
Notes
Suggested Reading
Sources for Chart References
 
Remembering Howard Sasportas

      Darby Costello
      Laura Boomer-Trent
      Erin Sullivan
      Melanie Reinhart

 
Index
Copyright



ILLUSTRATIONS

1. The Division of Space
2. Planets Mapped Against the Ecliptic
3. The Four Angles
4. The Natural Zodiac
5. Personal-Collective
6. The Four Quadrants
7. Me-in-here, etc.
8. Angular Houses
9. Succedent Houses
10. Cadent Houses
11. Fire – The Trinity of Spirit
12. Earth – The Trinity of Matter
13. Air – The Trinity of Relationship
14. Water – The Trinity of Soul
15. ‘Eliot’
16. ‘Kate’
17. Howard Sasportas



FOREWORD TO THE 2007 EDITION

Howard Sasportas died on 12 May 1992, fifteen years before the publication of this
welcome new edition of The Twelve Houses. Fifteen years are a long time in the context
of the changing paradigms and fashions in interpretation that have always constituted
the endlessly creative domain of astrological study and discourse since its beginnings in
ancient Babylon. Books, teachers, schools, and religious and spiritual frameworks come
and go, and in any given period a particular set of techniques might be considered
definitive and is then abandoned because a new set of techniques seems to provide all
the answers to questions that have been asked for over four millennia.

Astrologers also understand the importance of cycles. The meaning of a major
transiting configuration such as the Saturn-Pluto opposition of 2001-02, or the Saturn-
Neptune opposition of 2006-07, or the thirteen-year passage of Pluto through
Sagittarius, can be glimpsed not only in political, scientific, social, religious and artistic
currents, but also within astrology itself, affirming that what seems relevant in
astrological theory and practice at one time might not seem as relevant to some people
at another because the needs of astrologers, their students and their clients alter
according to changes in the collective. Few astrological authors make contributions that
transcend and outlast these shifting cycles, but Howard was one of these. His astrology
was not based on fashion, but is rooted in the sub-soil of a profound understanding of
astrological symbolism conjoined with a penetrating insight into human nature. When
he died, the astrological community recognized that it had lost one of its best-loved and
most original thinkers. His published work – The Twelve Houses, The Gods of Change,
The Sun Sign Career Guide (co-authored with Robert Walker), Direction and Destiny in
the Birth Chart, and the four volumes of seminars which I co-authored with him (The
Development of the Personality, Dynamics of the Unconscious, The Luminaries and The
Inner Planets) – has earned him a lasting place among the authors of classics in
astrological literature. More recently, greater sophistication in computer technology has
made possible the production of a series of Studyshops published by AstroLogos, which
includes live recordings of Howard’s seminars combined with articles and graphics in a
CD format. As a result of these Studyshops, a new generation of astrologers can enjoy
the pleasure of listening to Howard’s voice in a live, dynamic seminar setting.

And there is no question that the live setting was the place where Howard was at his
most fascinating, and where his qualities of wit, inspiration, profundity, articulateness
and human warmth were expressed most fully. Although he was a superb writer, it was
his personality that made the greatest impact, and those who knew this best were the
students attending his seminars for the Centre for Psychological Astrology in London.
Howard possessed a rare combination of mysticism and pragmatism that allowed him to
move from the most exalted metaphysical speculations to the most earthy and,



occasionally, downright scatological observations about horoscope placements. He
never lost sight of human psychology, nor of the need for the astrologer to grasp
fundamental human motivations and conflicts in order to apply abstract astrological
interpretation to actual life situations. He exhibited unfailing kindness and sensitivity to
his students, and perpetually emphasized a spiritual overview that encompassed an
intense idealism; but at the same time he had little tolerance for dogmatism or
destructive criticism. His approach was intensely personal and intensely transpersonal
at the same time, but it was never aimed at a ‘mass market’ audience because he always
related to the individual.

Howard’s written work, like his teaching, was offered to the astrological community
before the great explosion in astrology websites and online courses. His approach was
rooted in the intimacy of exchanges with students and individual clients, and his
astrological interpretations were always based on experience rather than speculation.
The Twelve Houses was also written before the advent of Pluto into Sagittarius, whose
reflections may be seen in the rise of sectarian trends, not only in religious contexts but
also within astrology. It would never have occurred to Howard to promulgate a ‘One
True Astrology’, or to see astrological practitioners who espoused other schools and
approaches as enemies or heretics. Although he himself was frequently subjected to the
kind of personal attack, rooted in envy and disguised as professional criticism, which
has always existed within astrological praxis, he never indulged in this form of self-
aggrandizement himself. He simply continued to practise and write superb astrology,
and was willing to incorporate in his approach an eclectic pot-pourri of perspectives
that ranged from Freud to Psychosynthesis, from Western esotericism to Hindu
mysticism, from psychological chart interpretation to the divinatory application of
astrology to progressions and transits, and from a discussion of myths and archetypes to
the timing of when one should sell one’s house. But his focus was always on the
relevance, integrity and importance of the individual, and techniques were never
subordinated to the reality of the human psyche.

Howard’s astrology was always human-centred. It is this quality, combined with his
lack of doctrinal rigidity, that makes his work continue to be exciting to astrologers of
every philosophical and spiritual persuasion. The late Alexander Ruperti, in an article
celebrating the work of Dane Rudhyar and published in the Astrological Journal in the
spring of 1986, made the following observation: ‘There is not one Astrology with a
capital A. In each epoch, the astrology of the time was a reflection of the kind of order
each culture saw in celestial motions, or the kind of relationship the culture formulated
between heaven and earth.’ In this post-modern era, Alexander Ruperti’s profound
insight has yet to be recognized in many quarters of the astrological community. But it
was always clear to Howard himself, who, within the framework of his appreciation of
human psychological and spiritual reality, was genuinely open to many astrologies.
Although he did not pursue Greco-Roman or medieval techniques of horoscopic
interpretation, nor define his work as divination, nevertheless he would have been the
last person to declare other astrological approaches as ‘wrong’. He preferred to focus
his gifts where he felt they could be best utilized, and astrological students and



practitioners are still benefiting from that honest and unpretentious commitment. This
new edition of The Twelve Houses is a timeless statement of the generosity and
inclusiveness of the astrological world-view, ancient, modern and post-modern, and
Howard’s work will continue – as it has in the past – to inspire students and experienced
practitioners alike.

Liz Greene
Bath, United Kingdom, May 2007



FOREWORD TO THE 1985 EDITION

The houses of the horoscope form one of the basic building-blocks with which every
student of astrology must learn to work at the outset of any serious study of the subject.
Because the houses are basic, it is often assumed that therefore they are simple –
perhaps the most simple and accessible of the trinity of planet-sign-house which
comprises the foundation of horoscope analysis. And because the houses are often
considered so simple and accessible, they are also believed to be the least worthy of any
in-depth perusal in the body of astrological literature.

I have found in my own experience, however, that the houses are no simpler than the
planets and signs, and perhaps even more subtle. How could they not be so, when after
all everyone born on a given day will have the same planets in the same signs, while
planetary placements in the houses are dependent upon that most individual of factors,
the moment of birth? Because they are so very individual, they portray a map of a very
individual destiny, and are worthy of much more extensive interpretation and analysis
than is usually offered in astrological textbooks. There is a large and unfortunate gap in
this area of the study, and certainly no past author has done full justice to this
apparently so simple yet difficult issue of the ‘spheres of life’.

I am therefore delighted to be able to write a foreword to a book which I feel not
only fills this gap in current astrological literature, but also extends the understanding of
astrology itself. Howard Sasportas has managed to do this without either violating those
aspects of astrological tradition which have proven to be valid, or ignoring – as so many
authors do – the current urgent need to bring psychological understanding into a study
which has for far too long been purely prognosticative and behavioural in its
interpretations. This book seems to me to be unique also in that, although it is
‘psychological astrology’ at its best, it does not hide behind psychological jargon, and
its language speaks both to the beginner and the experienced practitioner equally
clearly.

The issue of ‘psychological astrology’ appears to be a rather thorny one in some
respects, because many astrologers who have studied in older traditions feel that their
language, which has stood the test of many centuries, is being encroached upon by the
language of psychology, and that astrology, in these hands, is no longer ‘pure’ but is
becoming an extension of the helping professions. But psychological astrology in the
way it is applied in Howard’s book is not an erosion of the beauty and completeness of
the astrological model. It embodies, rather, one apparently very simple concept: the
reality of the psyche. That an individual’s life is characteristic of the individual ought to
be obvious, but it is exceedingly difficult to fully grasp unless one’s own psyche is a
reality to oneself. The interpretation of the houses that Howard offers in such depth in
this book is ‘psychological’ in the most profound sense, because implicit in every



chapter is the observation that an individual has certain kinds of experiences in a
particular sphere of life because that is how the psyche of the individual perceives,
reacts to, and interprets that sphere of life. The author phrases this very eloquently in
the first chapter:

The philosophical premise upon which psychological astrology is based is that a
person’s reality springs outward from his or her inner landscape of thoughts, feelings,
expectations and beliefs.

This is certainly astrology, and not an extension of anything else; but it is an
astrology which preserves the essential dignity and value of the individual psyche, and
in which the houses, no less than the signs and planets, are inside as well as outside, and
become full of meaning for the individual rather than remaining static ‘places’ or
‘events’ in life which have no connection to the soul.

The personal experience of astrology which is evident throughout the book is
extensive and impressive. I have had many occasions to learn from and have my own
astrological insights enhanced by Howard’s work, as we have jointly founded and
codirect the Centre for Psychological Astrology in London which is focused on
precisely this approach to astrology. I can therefore recommend Howard’s book not
only for the clarity and depth of its content, but also because I am well aware that the
interpretations which he offers are built upon many years of direct experience, and not
merely upon clever intellectual theorizing. Also implicit in the book is a personal
commitment to the astrologer’s own development and inner confrontation, which I have
always felt to be the chief criterion for any person wanting to take up the responsibility
of counselling others in any way. The psyche is obviously a reality to the author, and
therefore he is able to communicate its reality and its subtleties to the reader through the
astrological model. Genuine authority of this kind cannot be faked, although numerous
astrological writers appear to offer excellent theories which have never been put to the
test in life. No one observing the effects of a particular planet in a particular house can
really understand the complex issue of how an individual unconsciously creates, brick
by brick, the apparently ‘outer’ reality which he or she encounters unless there is some
relationship with the unconscious. Otherwise the interpretations are descriptions of
behaviour, which leaves us back where we started. When this happens, the creative,
teleological dimension of astrology – its capacity to open doors to a person and allow
that person to see how an attitude might be shaping outer life and therefore how some
consciousness of that attitude might shape a different quality of life – cannot be present.
Astrology then ceases to be creative, and becomes quite pointless except as a method of
justifying issues for which the individual does not wish to take responsibility.

As a learning textbook, Howard’s book is invaluable, because it begins at the
beginning with basic principles and takes the reader further and further into the
complexities of interpreting the houses while retaining throughout an essential clarity of
writing and a disciplined structure. I have no doubt that it will become an essential
textbook for any serious student of astrology wishing to develop his or her
understanding. As a statement of what psychological astrology is really about, it is also
invaluable, because it could not put the point more clearly. Psychological astrology is



not about abandoning astrology to psychotherapy, but about a way of understanding and
reading the symbols of the horoscope which encompasses both inner and outer levels of
experience, and points the way to the essential archetypal patterns which underlie both.
Usually the houses are confusing because of the apparent diversity of themes which
often occur under one umbrella. For example, the profundities and mysteries of death
are conjoined with life insurance policies in the eighth, and the complexities of the
relationship between body and spirit are mixed up with ‘small animals’ in the sixth.
Howard’s book provides the essential meaning which underlies all these apparently
disparate themes connected with one house, which thereby allows the reader to
understand why all these ‘outer’ circumstances are part of one core. This kind of insight
is rare and cannot be overestimated in its value.

It is therefore with great pleasure that I can introduce a book which I am certain will
provide an important and unique contribution to the body of astrological literature.

Liz Greene



INTRODUCTION

Man is asked to make of himself what he is supposed to become, to fulfil his destiny.
Paul Tillich

All around us in nature, life unfolds according to certain inner designs. A rosebud opens
into a rose, an acorn grows into an oak, and a caterpillar emerges as a butterfly from its
cocoon. Is it unreasonable to assume that human beings share this quality with the rest
of creation – that we, too, unfold according to an inner plan?

The concept that each of us has a unique set of potentialities yearning to be realized
is an ancient one. St Augustine wrote that ‘there is one within me who is more myself
than my self.’1 Aristotle used the word entelechy to refer to the evolution and full
blossoming of something originally in a state of potential. Along with entelechy,
Aristotle also spoke of essence as those qualities which one could not lose without
ceasing to be oneself. In like manner, Eastern philosophy applies the term dharma to
denote the intrinsic identity and latent life-pattern present from birth in all of us. It is the
dharma of a fly to buzz, a lion to roar, and an artistic person to create. Each of these
patterns has its own kind of truth and dignity.

Modern psychology attaches many different names to the perennial quest ‘to be that
self which one truly is’2 – the individuation process, self-realization, self-actualization,
self-development, etc. By whatever label it is called, the underlying meaning is clear:
all of us possess certain intrinsic potentials and capabilities. What’s more, somewhere
deep within us there is a primordial knowledge or preconscious perception of our true
nature, our destiny, our abilities, and our ‘calling’ in life. Not only do we have a
particular path to follow, but on some instinctive level, we know what that is.

Our fulfilment, happiness and well-being hinge on discovering this pattern and
cooperating with its realization. The Danish philosopher Kierkegaard observed that the
most common form of despair is that of not being who we really are, adding that an
even deeper form of despair stems from choosing to be someone other than oneself.3
The psychologist Rollo May wrote, ‘When the person denies his potentialities, fails to
fulfil them, his condition is guilt.’4 Theologians have interpreted the fourth cardinal sin,
sloth or accidie, as ‘the sin of failing to do with one’s life all that one knows one could
do.’5 But how can we connect to that part of ourselves which knows what we could be?
How can we find the path again, once we have lost the way? Is there any map that
exists which can guide us back to ourselves?



The astrological birthchart is such a map. A picture of the heavens as it appeared at
one’s place and time of birth, the chart symbolically portrays our own unique reality,
innate pattern and inner design. A knowledge of the chart enables us to perceive those
things which we would naturally be doing, if we had not been frustrated by family,
society and, perhaps most crucially, by the ambivalences of our own nature.

Our being is not only given to us but demanded of us, and it is up to us to make of
ourselves what we are meant to become. In the end, we alone are responsible for what
we do with our lives, for the degree to which we accept or reject our true nature,
purpose and identity. The birthchart is the best guide we have to lead us back to
ourselves. Each placement in the chart reveals the most natural and appropriate way to
unfold who and what we are. Why not listen to the clues the chart has to offer?

Howard Sasportas

Notes – Introduction
1. St Augustine cited in Irvin Yalom, Existential Psychotherapy, Basic Books, New

York, 1980, p. 280.
2. Carl Rogers quoting Kierkegaard cited in Rowan, The Reality Game, Routledge and

Kegan Paul, London, 1983, p. 62.
3. Rowan, p. 62.
4. Rollo May cited in Yalom, p. 279.
5. Abraham Maslow, Toward A Psychology of Being, Van Nostrand, New York, 1968, p.

5.



PART I: THE LANDSCAPE OF LIFE



1.

BASIC PREMISES 

One may indeed say that it is not the event which happens to the person, but the
person which happens to the event.

Dane Rudhyar

There are three basic ingredients which combine to make up an astrological chart –
planets, signs and houses. Planets represent particular psychological drives, urges and
motivations. Like verbs, they depict a certain action which is going on – for example,
Mars asserts, Venus harmonizes, Jupiter expands, Saturn restricts, etc. The signs
represent twelve qualities of being or attitudes towards life. The drive of a planet is
expressed through the sign in which the planet is placed. Mars can assert in an Arien
way or Taurean way; Venus can harmonize in a Geminian or Cancerian fashion, and so
on. Houses, however, show the specific areas of everyday life or fields of experience in
which all this is occurring. Mars in Taurus will assert itself in a slow and steady manner,
but its placement by house determines the exact area of life in which this slow and
steady action can most obviously be observed – whether it is in the person’s career that
he or she acts that way, or in his or her relationships, or at school, etc. Put very simply,
the planets show what is happening, the signs how it is happening, and the houses where
it is happening.

Serving as the lens to focus and personalize the planetary blueprint onto the
landscape of actual life, the houses bring the chart down to earth. And yet the meanings
and functions of the twelve houses are usually the least understood of all the basic
astrological factors. It is the purpose of this book to examine how a proper appreciation
of the signs and planets in each of the twelve houses can guide us to our true identity,
illuminating the path of self-discovery and the unfoldment of our life-plan.

There are a few reasons why the full significance of the houses has been so often
overlooked. Most astrological textbooks dwell on the traditional ‘outer’ meaning of
each house and neglect its more subtle or basic underlying principle. Unless the core
meaning of a house is grasped, the true essence of that house is lost. For instance, the
11th house is normally known as the ‘House of Friends, Groups, Hopes and Wishes’. At
first this may seem strange – what do friends and groups have to do with hopes and
wishes? Why are these things all lumped together under the same house? However,
when the deeper, most basic principle of the house is explained, then the connection
becomes clear. The kernel of the 11th house is ‘the urge to become something greater
than we already are.’ We do this by connecting to something greater than our separate
selves – by aligning ourselves with friends and social circles, by joining groups, by
identifying with causes which lift us out of ourselves and encompass us in a vaster



scheme of things. But the desire to become something greater than we already are must
also be accompanied by the capacity to envision new and different possibilities. In other
words, hoping and wishing for something moves us beyond existing images and models
of ourselves. We must have a dream before we can have a dream come true. Understood
in the context of the desire to extend our already existing sphere of experience, the 11th
house labels of ‘friends, groups, hopes and wishes’ begin to make sense in relationship
to one another.

The conventional way in which the influence of planets and signs in the houses has
been interpreted is another obstacle to fully appreciating the significance of each house.
Perceiving events as purely external circumstances which befall us, traditional astrology
interprets placements in the chart in a deterministic and fatalistic light, and fails to
comprehend the part we play in shaping and constituting what happens to us. An
‘event-orientated’ astrologer, for instance, might say to a man with Saturn in the 11th
house something like ‘Your friends will restrict and disappoint you.’ This may be true,
but what good does such an interpretation do for anyone?

The philosophical premise upon which psychological astrology is based is that a
person’s reality springs outward from his or her inner landscape of thoughts, feelings,
expectations and beliefs. For the man with Saturn in the 11th, trouble with friends is
only the tip of the iceberg – the outer manifestation of something which he, himself, is
responsible for creating. His difficulty relating with companions is the surface
manifestation of something much deeper: his fear of expanding his boundaries to
include something other than himself. He wants to become greater than he already is –
to identify with something beyond his existing sense of self – and yet he is afraid of
endangering the identity he already has. The 11th house urges him to encompass a
greater reality but Saturn says ‘Hold on, preserve what you are already familiar with.’
Understood in this way, it is not friendship which restricts him, but his own restrictions
which limit his friendships. The astrologer who points out this dilemma ushers the man
into the vestibule of change. Confronting these apprehensions, examining their origins,
and looking at the possible ways of dealing with his fears, are the keys which open the
door to further growth and development. When appreciated in the context of unfolding
his potential and realizing his life-plan, this man’s difficulties with friends becomes a
necessary and productive phase of experience. Grappling with Saturn in the 11th, rather
than avoiding it or blaming it on others, is one way he ‘makes of himself what he is
supposed to become’. How infinitely more beneficial this interpretation of an 11th
house Saturn is than ‘Sorry, old chap, your friends are no good.’

In his book The Astrology of Personality, Dane Rudhyar, a pioneer of person-centred
astrology, proposes that reading the chart is to read the dharma of the person.1 In a later
work, The Astrological Houses, he elaborates more fully on this, emphasizing that the
planets and signs in each house offer ‘celestial instructions’ on how a person can most
naturally unfold his or her life-plan in that area of existence.2 As far as possible, this
book interprets the planets and signs through the houses in this perspective. However,
besides just indicating the most authentic way to fulfil our intrinsic potentialities, the
house placements also show our innate predisposition to perceive the experiences



associated with each house in the context of the signs and planets found there. For
example, a woman with Pluto in the 7th house is predisposed from birth to expect Pluto
in connection with the affairs of that house. What’s more, because Pluto is what she is
expecting there, Pluto is precisely what she will find.

What we see in life is coloured by what we expect to see. Twenty-eight students
were asked to describe what they saw when a deck of playing cards was flashed one-by-
one onto a screen. Their basic expectation (or orienting paradigm) was the
preconception that a pack of cards consists of four suits: two black (spades and clubs)
and two red suits (hearts and diamonds). However, when the experimenters slipped a
red six of spades into the deck, many of the students simply refused the evidence of
their own eyes and ‘converted’ the red spade to black in their descriptions. In other
words, when the red six of spades was flashed onto the screen, they didn’t even notice
the card’s incongruity to their expectations of what a six of spades should look like.
They saw only what they expected to see, not what was actually there.3

Similarly, our archetypal expectations, as seen through the signs and planets in the
houses, precondition us to certain ways of experiencing life. The woman born with
Pluto in the 7th, then, will filter issues relating to partnership through the lens of that
planet. In this sense, she is ‘stuck’ with Pluto in that dimension of life, just as an acorn
is stuck with becoming an oak. Nothing she can do will change that planet being there.
But once she becomes consciously aware that Pluto is the context in which she views
the 7th house, a few alternatives open to her which didn’t exist previously.

To begin with, she can ask herself what purpose the 7th house Pluto serves in the
overall unfoldment of her life-plan. In this way, she accepts and begins to co-operate
with her inborn nature. Secondly, instead of blaming life or other people for the state of
affairs in that house, she can try to understand the role she has played in creating the
circumstances there. By doing this, she imbues the experiences in her life with greater
meaning and significance – they are not just random events which ‘happen’ to her.
Finally, if she can ‘use’ Pluto in its most constructive connotations, she is less likely to
have to suffer its gruelling side any longer than necessary. On one level, Pluto implies
the tearing down of forms and the collapse of existing structures. But on another level,
Pluto represents transformation and rebirth into a whole new way of being. Through
altering the perspective in which she views what is happening, she can understand
Pluto’s upheavals as necessary opportunities for growth and change. By facing and
coming to terms with the kinds of traumas associated with this planet, she ‘shifts’ levels
and finds that Pluto has a whole other dimension of experience to offer. She learns what
Paracelsus observed so long ago, that ‘the deity which brings the illness also brings the
cure.’

Awareness brings change. Through examining the house placements in our charts,
we not only are given clues as to the best way to meet life in that area, but we also gain
insight into the underlying archetypal expectations operating within us. Once we
become aware that we have an inborn bias to see things in a certain context, we can
begin to work constructively within that framework, gradually expanding its borders to
allow for other alternatives. Bearing this in mind, the reader can use this book both as a



tool for personal development and as a guide for chart interpretation. The suggested
meaning of each planet and sign through the houses is intended to serve as a broad and
general outline, hopefully inspiring further thought and reflection on the nature of each
placement.

My suggestions should not be taken as gospel or applied too rigidly, and I apologize
for the inherent limitations of the ‘cookbook’ format. My firm belief is that every factor
in the chart can only be fully appreciated in the light of the whole chart. Furthermore,
the expression of any placement in the horoscope is contingent on the X-factor of the
level of consciousness of the entity for whom it is drawn. A woman might be born at
the same time, place and date as her pet frog, and the two charts would look exactly the
same. But the frog expresses the birth map according to its level of awareness, and the
woman according to hers. Because our level of consciousness plays such a crucial role
in determining the ‘outcome’ and meaning of placements in the chart, no rigid
interpretation of any one factor can be fixed. Each of us is more than the sum of the
parts of the chart. Each of us has the potential for greater awareness, freedom and
fulfilment.

Notes – Chapter 1
1. Dane Rudhyar, The Astrology of Personality, Servire/Wassenaar, Netherlands, 1963,

p. 223.
2. Dane Rudhyar, The Astrological Houses, Doubleday, New York, 1972, p. 38.
3. Sue Walrond-Skinner, Famuy Therapy, Routledge and Kegan Paul, London, 1976,

pp. 23-4.



2.

SPACE, TIME AND BOUNDARIES

A human being is part of the whole, called by us ‘Universe’; a part limited in time
and space.

Albert Einstein

According to the Bible, God began His great work by creating the universe and then
dividing it into different parts. He made the heavens separate from the earth, light
separate from darkness, and day separate from night. In an attempt to manage,
understand and make sense of existence, human beings exhibit this same tendency to
divide the wholeness of life into various component parts and phases. Similarly, the
birthchart, the map of an individual’s existence, reflects this slicing of life into different
sections – the sum total of which make a whole.

The Division of Space
No matter how haphazard the universe might seem at times, it is, nonetheless, fairly
orderly. Cyclic and predictable, the celestial bodies manage to keep on their paths and
adhere to their proper motion. Perhaps in an attempt to ascribe meaning and order to
their lives, our early human ancestors observed a relationship between celestial events
(the movements of the Sun, Moon and planets) and life on earth. But they needed to
have a frame of reference or backdrop by which to plot and pinpoint the positions of
these moving lights in the sky. In order to do this, space was divided into different
sections and labelled.



Fig. 1 The Division of Space

Fig. 2 Planets mapped against the ecliptic for January 1st,
1985

Modern astrologers are faced with the same problem – how to divide space to create
a frame of reference by which to identify the positions of the celestial bodies. It so
happens, from a geocentric point of view, that the Sun, Moon and planets all appear to
move in a broad circular path around the Earth. This path extends approximately 8 or 9
degrees on either side of what is known as the ecliptic – the apparent path of the Sun
around the Earth – and is called the Zodiac Belt. The ecliptic is then divided into twelve
signs of thirty degrees each, starting with 0 degrees of Aries, the point where the Sun’s
path intersects the celestial equator (the Earth’s equator projected into space) at the



Spring Equinox. In this sense, the signs of the Zodiac (Aries, Taurus, Gemini, etc.)* are
subdivisions of the ecliptic, the apparent yearly movement of the Sun around the Earth
(see Figure 1). The positions of the planets are mapped against these divisions of the
ecliptic, showing what sign each planet happens to be passing through on any particular
day of the year (see Figure 2).

The planets, each at its own rate, continually move through the different signs. The
Sun takes approximately one month to pass through a sign, and roughly one year to
make a full circle of all the signs along the ecliptic. The Moon spends about 2½ days in
each sign and takes 27⅓ days to pass through all twelve signs. Uranus takes
approximately 7 years to pass through a sign and roughly 84 years to make a full circle.
As stated in Chapter 1, a planet describes a particular kind of activity which expresses
itself according to the nature of the sign in which it is placed.

The Division of Time
The word horoscope comes from the Greek word ‘horoscopus’, meaning ‘consideration
of the hour’ or ‘consideration of the ascending degree’. In other words, the horoscope is
literally a ‘time-map’. By dividing the space in the heavens into signs, the early
astrologers were able to plot the position of the planets in the sky. But they soon
realized that something more was needed – a frame of reference to link the planetary
pattern to a particular person born at a certain time and place.

Besides the movement caused by the apparent revolution of the Sun, Moon and the
planets around the Earth, there is another type of movement which the horoscope must
take into consideration: the daily rotation of the Earth on its own axis. The early
astrologers had to find some way to correlate the celestial phenomena of planets
moving through the signs to the terrestrial phenomenon of the daily rotation of the Earth
on its own axis.

The most obvious way of doing this was to divide the twenty-four-hour rotation of
the Earth into sections based on how long it took the Sun to move from its position at
dawn to its position at noon, and from its noon point to its sunset point, etc. Because at
certain times of the year the Sun would spend longer above the horizon, these divisions
would not always be equal.

Martin Freeman, in his book How to Interpret a Birth Chart,1 helps the beginning
student of astrology conceptualize the kind of movement caused by the rotation of the
Earth. He suggests that we imagine a day in early spring. From the point of view of the
Earth, the Sun in early spring is situated in that part of the Zodiacal Belt which is
known as Aries. At sunrise on the day in question, the Sun and the sign of Aries will be
seen appearing over the eastern horizon of the observer on Earth. By noon of that day,
however, the Sun and Aries are no longer due east – they have moved to a position
more or less overhead of the observer, and a different sign, probably Cancer, is on the
eastern horizon. By sunset, the Sun and Aries will be seen to be setting over the western
horizon, and the opposite sign of Libra (180 degrees away from Aries) will be rising
over the eastern horizon. At sunrise the next day, the Sun and Aries will again be seen
in the east, but the Sun would have moved approximately one degree further along in



the sign of Aries. Thus, due to the daily rotation of the Earth on its own axis, the
position of the signs (and any planets which happen to be in them) changes in relation
to the horizon.

The Division of the Chart into Angles
To understand houses it is essential to remember that we are dealing with two kinds of
movement – that of the Earth and the other planets around the Sun, but also the
movement of the Earth on its axis. The division of the mundane sphere into what
eventually became known as the houses arose out of a need to relate the axial rotation
of the Earth with the movement of the planets in the sky. While signs are subdivisions
of the apparent revolution of the Sun, Moon and planets around the Earth, houses are
subdivisions of the Earth’s diurnal (daily) rotation on its own axis.

In The Astrological Houses, Dane Rudhyar expands Cyril Fagan’s view that what we
now refer to as houses were originally periods of time called ‘watches’. Watches were
based on the movement of the Sun as it rose in the east, passed overhead of the
observer, and set in the west. Each watch covered approximately six hours of time,
marking the points of sunrise, noon, sunset and midnight. By the advent of the
Renaissance, astrologers had devised several methods of dividing these watches into the
twelve houses of the horoscope. Furthermore, they had developed a correspondence
between various types of human activity and the different watches or houses. In this
way, the houses became the frame of reference through which the potentialities of a
planet and sign combination could be related to the actual events and concerns of life.
Without the structure of the houses, astrologers cannot bring the significance of celestial
events down to earth.



Fig. 3 The Four Angles

It is an easy step from the four watches to the four points in the chart known as the
Angles (see Figure 3). From the point of view of an observer’s position on Earth, at any
time of day, a certain sign will be seen to be rising in the east while its opposite sign
(180 degrees away) will be seen to be setting in the west. The degree of the sign
occupying the easternmost point in the sky is called the Ascending Degree and the sign
it is in is called the Ascendant or Rising Sign. Astronomically, the Ascendant marks the
intersection of the ecliptic with the observer’s horizon – in other words, the meeting of
heaven and earth. The opposite point to the Ascendant is the Descendant, the sign
setting in the west. The line connecting the Ascendant and Descendant is called the axis
of the horizon.

Likewise, at any time of the day for an observer on Earth, a particular degree of a
certain sign will be ‘culminating’ at the upper meridian, the point due south of the place
in question. This is called the Midheaven or MC, an abbreviation for the Latin term
Medium Coeli, the ‘middle of the heavens’. The opposite point to the Midheaven is
called the Imum Coeli or IC, an abbreviation for ‘the lowest heavens’. The line
connecting the Midheaven to the Imum Coeli is called the axis of the meridian.

These four points are determined astronomically. Collectively called the Angles, the
signs found on these points reveal a great deal about an individual’s orientation to basic
experiences in life. Their significance is more fully discussed in later chapters. The
intersection of the axis of the horizon and the axis of the meridian give rise to the four
Quadrants of the chart. Owing to the tilt of the Earth, the size of the quadrants arising



from this fourfold division are seldom equal, and will vary according to the latitude and
time of year of the birth.

The Division of the Four Angles into the Twelve Houses
While determining the angles does not raise too many problems, the manner in

which the four angles should (or should not) be trisected to form the twelve houses is a
major controversy in astrology.

On the whole, there seems to be general agreement that the line of the horizon – the
Ascendant-Descendant axis – is the basis upon which the division of the chart into
houses should rest. In other words, most astrologers agree that the Ascendant should
mark the cusp (or beginning point, or leading edge) of the 1st house and the Descendant
should mark the cusp (or beginning point) of the 7th house. After that, astrologers
disperse in all directions. Those who support the Equal House System of house-division
provide the least complicated solution. Calling the Ascendant the cusp of the 1st house,
they simply divide the ecliptic into twelve equal-sized houses of thirty degrees each. So,
if the Ascendant were 13 degrees of Cancer, then the 2nd house would be 13 degrees of
Leo, the 3rd house 13 degrees of Virgo, etc. In the case of Equal House charts, the
Midheaven does not necessarily coincide with any house cusp.

However, in Quadrant systems of house-division, the four points of the angles all
correspond to house cusps: the Ascendant becomes the 1st house cusp, the IC becomes
the 4th house cusp, the Descendant becomes the 7th house cusp, and the Midheaven
becomes the 10th house cusp. But how the intermediate house cusps (that is, the cusps
of the 2nd, 3rd, 5th, 6th, 8th, 9th, 11th and 12th houses) should be calculated raises
many questions. In some of these systems, space is divided to determine these cusps; in
other systems time is the factor upon which the division is made. A fuller discussion of
the question of house-division is included in Appendix 2. Personally, and for reasons
explained in the Appendix, I favour Quadrant systems over the Equal House System
and for the purposes of this book, will generally relate the cusp of the 10th house to the
Midheaven, and the cusp of the 4th house to the Imum Coeli.

One way or another, we want to end up with twelve houses. Why twelve? The most
obvious reason for this is that astrologers believed that the division of the mundane
sphere into houses should mirror the division of the ecliptic into twelve signs. Rudhyar
offers a more philosophical answer. He argues that each quarter of the chart (as defined
by the Ascendant, IC, Descendant and Midheaven) should be divided into three houses
because ‘each operation of life is basically threefold, including action, reaction, and the
result of both.’2 In his opinion, then, the 2nd and 3rd houses carry out the significance
of the Ascendant and 1st house; the 5th and 6th houses fulfil what is begun by the IC
and 4th house; the 8th and 9th houses continue what is started by the Descendant and
7th house; and the 11th and 12th houses complete what was initiated by the Midheaven
and 10th house. Besides justifying the need for twelve houses, Rudhyar’s reasoning
helps us to appreciate the fact that the meaning and relevance of each house follows on
logically from the previous one. More will be said on the cyclic process of the houses
later.



The houses are traditionally counted anti-clockwise from the Ascendant. The 1st and
7th houses are always opposite one another – this means that the sign on the 7th house
cusp will be the opposite sign to the one on the 1st house cusp, although the actual
degree on the cusp will stay the same. This same rule applies to the other pairs of
opposite houses: the 2nd and 8th, the 3rd and 9th, the 4th and 10th, the 5th and 11th and
the 6th and 12th.

Martin Freeman makes the relationship between the signs of the zodiac and the
twelvefold division of the houses clearer by picturing the zodiac as a ‘great wheel
surrounding the Earth along whose rim the planets move’. This wheel is fixed against
the background of the heavens, and the signs are marked along the edge. The twelve
houses are like the ‘spokes of a moving wheel superimposed on the greater wheel’. The
spokes of the houses rotate a full circle every twenty-four hours in line with the daily
rotation of the Earth. The particular way the wheel of the houses is related to the wheel
of the zodiac at the time and place of birth is what makes the chart unique for each
individual.3

Since the Earth rotates once every twenty-four hours, the twelve signs and ten
planets pass through the twelve houses in that period. The birthchart is a frozen moment
in time which shows the particular alignment of planets, signs and houses for the time
and place of birth. Two people may be born on the same day and have the same sign
positions of the planets, but because they are born in a different place or at a different
time, the planetary pattern will be seen in a different area of the heavens, i.e. in different
houses.

So far we have divided space into signs, divided time into four quadrants, and
divided four quadrants into twelve houses. That’s enough dividing for now. It’s time to
assign meaning to the houses, and consider their relationship to one another, and to our
lives.

The Natural Zodiac
Since the houses are determined by the line of the horizon (where heaven and earth

meet), they relate the activities and energies symbolized by the planets in the signs
(celestial events) to actual life on earth (terrestrial events). In other words, the houses
show specific areas of everyday experience through which the operations of the signs
and planets manifest. Each of the twelve houses represents a different department of life
– a particular phase of what Rudhyar calls ‘the spectrum of experience’.4

But we still have the problem of assigning meaning to the different houses.
Generally, the meaning of each house mirrors the meaning of the twelve signs of the
zodiac: Aries is considered similar to the 1st house, Taurus is considered similar to the
2nd house, and so on right through to the connection of Pisces with the 12th house. In
what is called the Natural Zodiac (see Figure 4), the first degree of Aries is placed on
the Ascendant, the first degree of Taurus is placed on the cusp of the 2nd house, the first
degree of Gemini  is placed on the cusp of the 3rd house, etc. The Natural Zodiac is
symbolic, and its main purpose is to help the student gain a deeper understanding of
what the houses signify. In actual practice, the houses in a person’s chart will almost



never align themselves in such an exact correspondence with the signs as in the Natural
Zodiac.

Fig. 4 The Natural Zodiac

The coupling of 0 degrees of Aries with the Ascendant does make sense, however,
because both Aries and the Ascendant (cusp of the 1st house) are beginning points in
their respective cycles. The yearly cycle of the Sun’s apparent movement around the
Earth begins with 0 degrees of Aries – the point where the celestial equator intersects
the ecliptic at the Spring Equinox. The daily cycle of the Sun through the houses
symbolically begins with the Ascendant – the point where the horizon of the observer
on Earth intersects the ecliptic. Since Aries and the Ascendant both connote beginnings,
it is understandable that they should share a similar meaning. Aries is a sign which
implies ‘initiation’, fresh starts, and the first impulse to act. The Ascendant and 1st
house are associated with birth and the way in which we meet life. The ruler of Aries,
Mars, also denotes initiatory energy, the will-to-be, and the urge to make an impact on
the environment.

Zipporah Dobyns, in The Astrologer’s Casebook,5 describes astrology as a symbolic
language in which the signs, planets and houses form the alphabet. She feels that
astrology depicts twelve ways of being in the world, or twelve sides of life. These
twelve aspects of the totality of life can be written in different ways, just as in the
English alphabet we have upper case, lower case and italic letters. Signs symbolize one
form of the letters of the alphabet, planets another, and houses another still. Signs,
planets and houses, in other words, represent different ways in which the same twelve
basic principles can be expressed. More specifically, Aries, Mars and the 1st house
represent one letter, Taurus, Venus and the 2nd house another; Gemini, Mercury and the



3rd house represent a third letter, etc. It must be remembered, however, that any planet
or any sign can be located in any house depending on the exact time, place and date of
birth. Therefore, the factors symbolized by a sign, planet or house will be found to be
mixed.

The Houses as Fields of Experience
In many textbooks, each house is generally allotted a field of experience, describing

a particular set of circumstances in a person’s life. For instance, one traditional meaning
of the 4th house is ‘the home’, of the 9th house is ‘long journeys’, and one of the areas
covered by the 12th house is ‘institutions’. Texts tell us that if we want to know what a
person’s home is like, we should examine that person’s 4th house. If we want to know
what will happen to a person on long journeys, we should analyse the 9th house; and if
we want to find out how someone will fare in hospitals or prisons we should consider
the placements in the 12th. While sometimes quite accurate, this way of interpreting
houses is flat, boring and not very helpful. If Chapter 1, I emphasized that the core
meaning of the house must be grasped – that essential inner meaning from which spring
all the endless associations and possibilities connected to that house. The 4th house is
referred to as the house of ‘the home’ for a reason and that reason should be
understood. The 9th house is associated with ‘long journeys’ because travel is just one
way that a more general process associated with the 9th house can be lived out.
‘Hospitals and prisons’ hardly scratch the surface of the 12th house. In Part II of this
book, we crack the shell of each house in an attempt to cut through all its layers and
‘get at’ the meaty, archetypal kernel.

Planets and signs in a house reveal much more than just what might be waiting ‘out
there’ for us. Placements in a house describe the inner landscape – the inborn images
we carry within which are then ‘projected’ onto that sphere. We filter what is happening
outside through the subjective lens of the sign(s) or planet(s) in a house. If Pluto is in
the 4th house, even something ‘nice’ someone does for us in our home might be
perceived as dangerous, underhand and threatening. But, most importantly, the signs
and planets in a house suggest the best and most natural manner in which we ‘should’
meet that area of life in order to unfold and realize our inherent potentialities. As Dane
Rudhyar writes, ‘Each house of the chart symbolizes a specialized aspect of [our]
dharma.’6

The Houses as Process
In a lecture entitled ‘Creating a Sacred Psychology’,7 the psychologist Jean Houston

related an anecdote about the life of Margaret Mead. As a child, Margaret asked her
mother to teach her how to make cheese. Her mother replied, ‘Yes, dear, but you are
going to have to watch the calf being born.’ From the calf being born to making cheese
– Margaret Mead was taught as a child to do entire processes from beginning, to
middle, to end.

Dr Houston laments that we are the victims of an ‘age of interrupted process’. We
turn on a switch and the world is set in motion. We know a little about the beginning of



things; we know a little about the end of things; but we have no idea about the middle.
We have lost the sense of the natural rhythms of life.

Our current culture is insufferably imbalanced. Before the sixteenth century the
dominant world view was organic. People lived close to nature in small social groups,
and perceived their own needs as subordinate to those of the community. Natural
science had its basis in reason and faith, and the material and spiritual were inextricably
linked. By the seventeenth century, this world view had changed dramatically. The
sense of an organic, spiritual universe was replaced by a different notion: the world as a
machine, which functioned on the basis of mechanical laws, and which could be
explained in terms of the movement and arrangement of its various parts. The Earth was
no longer the Great Mother, sentient and alive, but a mechanism, reducible to bits and
pieces like a clock. Descartes’ famous statement, ‘Cogito, ergo sum’ – I think, therefore
I am – heralded a major split between mind and matter. People moved into their heads
and left the rest of their bodies behind. Fragmentation became the rule of the day, and
continues to reign even though twentieth-century physics has shown that relationship is
everything – that nothing can be understood isolated from its context.

Ironically, astrology, the study of nature’s cycles and movements, also lost its sense
of process and its feeling for the organic wholeness of life. The mechanistic world view
led to a belief that nature could and should be controlled, dominated and exploited.
Similarly, astrology came to emphasize prediction and outcome at the expense of an
understanding of the deeper significance of things. Houses were described by keywords
and meanings which made them seem as if they were unrelated to one another, or only
loosely connected. Why is the 2nd house of ‘money, resources and possessions’
followed by the 3rd house of ‘the mind, immediate environment, and brothers and
sisters’? Why is the 6th house of ‘work, health and small animals’ spawned by the 5th
house of ‘creative self-expression, hobbies and spare-time activities’? Surely, just as
summer follows spring and day turns into night, there must be some fundamental reason
why one house leads on to the next.

Houses are not separate, isolated, dangling segments of life. Conceived in their
totality, they unfold a process of supreme significance – the story of the emergence and
development of a human being. Starting at birth from the Ascendant, we are not even
aware of ourselves as distinct from anything else. Gradually, house by house, through a
series of steps, phases, dances and changes we build an identity which can ultimately
expand to include all of creation. We emerge out of an amorphous sea, take shape, and
then merge back again. Unless appreciated as a process of unfoldment, both life and the
houses forfeit their essential meaning. Process is embedded in the very root of human
experience. Division is only one part of the entire cycle, and yet we imprison ourselves
in it. But wholeness is everything.

Notes – Chapter 2
1. Martin Freeman, How to Interpret a Birth Chart, Aquarian Press, Wellingborough,

Northamptonshire, England, 1981, p. 13.
2. Dane Rudhyar, The Astrology of Personality, p. 219.



3. Freeman, p. 59.
4. Dane Rudhyar, The Astrological Houses, title page.
5. Zipporah Dobyns and Nancy Roof, The Astrologer’s Casebook, TIA Publications,

Los Angeles, California, 1973, p. 6.
6. Dane Rudhyar, The Astrological Houses, p. 38.
7. Jean Houston, Creating A Sacred Psychology, Wrekin Trust Cassette No. 81,

Hereford, England.

* The signs bear the same names as the constellations, but due to a phenomenon known as the Precession of the
Equinoxes, the signs and constellations no longer coincide.



PART II: MAPPING THE JOURNEY



3.

THE ASCENDANT AND THE FIRST HOUSE

What we are looking for is what is looking.
St Francis

Take a few seconds to imagine how existence in the womb might feel. Floating
rhythmically in the waters of life – there is no sense of an individual or separate
identity, no awareness of body, feelings or mind as distinct from anything else.
Dreamily immersed in a primal paradise, there is only unity or oneness with the rest of
creation. The universe is the self, and the self is the universe.1

Birth rather dramatically jolts us out of this realm of oceanic totality. Being born
means ‘taking on’ a body, and heralds the self as a unique and distinct individual. On
the basis of this moment, the birthchart is drawn and our journey through the houses
begins.

Marking the cusp of the 1st house, the Ascendant shows the exact degree of the
zodiacal sign which is rising over the eastern horizon at the time of birth. Coincident
with the first independent breath we take, the Ascendant and 1st house proclaim the
beginning of a cycle, the initial step or stage in the process of Becoming.

Whatever is born at a moment in time reflects the qualities of that moment. The
Ascending sign comes into light and distinguishes itself from darkness at the same time
that we emerge from the dark, hidden, and undifferentiated environment of the mother’s
womb. In other words, the Ascendant appears as we appear, and its qualities reflect both
who we are and how we meet life.

The sign of the Ascendant symbolizes a particular facet of the totality of life which
literally seeks ‘em-bodiment’ through what is being born at that moment. Because the
Ascendant corresponds with the initial ‘flash’ or ‘hit’ of our individual existence, it also
impresses itself deeply into the psyche as ‘that which life is all about’. We attribute to
life the qualities of the sign on the Ascendant or any planets nearby. It is the lens
through which we perceive existence, the focus we bring into life, the way we ‘bracket’
the world. And since we see the world in this way, we invariably act and behave in
accordance with our vision. What’s more, life obliges our expectations and reflects our
own point of view back to us.

Let us pause and consider this concept for a moment. How we perceive the world
(our lens) will influence both the way we relate to it as well as what is fed back to us.
By consciously or unconsciously ‘choosing’ certain possible interpretations of
situations or people’s action and behaviour (while disregarding other ways of assessing
the same circumstances), we organize our experience of life according to what we have
elected to see. The Ascendant, which is the first notion of life we form at birth,



describes something about this sorting out and selection process. Reflecting the inborn
image we have of life, the sign on the Ascendant colours our view of existence. If we
have on red glasses, the world looks red and we will act accordingly. We may act very
differently if we see a blue world through our lenses.

First house

For example, if Sagittarius is rising, we will perceive a world of many exciting
options and possibilities which invite us to explore and grow. If Capricorn is rising,
however, we will view the world through a narrower lens of fear, doubt and hesitation.
The same opportunities for expansion which stimulate and excite the Sagittarius rising
into action may provoke the Capricorn rising into a state of dread and apprehension.
When presented with a new possibility the Sagittarius Ascendant will exclaim, ‘Great,
when do I start?’ When presented with the same possibility, the Capricorn Ascendant
will shudder and drone, ‘Must I do it? I know I really should. Am I good enough? Oh,
what a big responsibility!’*

We ‘dream the world up’ according to the sign on the Ascendant, and then we enact
the dream. It is both the maze we create, and, at the same time, the way out of the maze.
For instance, those with Aries rising interpret the world as a place in which action and
decisiveness are prerequisites, and then they proceed to act decisively. Those with
Gemini rising create a world in which acquiring knowledge and understanding is
necessary and then they endeavour to try to figure life out. In this sense, the sign on the
Ascendant is both what we are looking for and what is doing the looking. A more
detailed description of each Ascendant is found in Chapter 17.

The sign on the Ascendant or any planet near the cusp of the 1st house often
describes the individual’s experience of his or her birth. For example, Saturn on the
Ascendant or Capricorn rising may signify delayed, extended or difficult births. Mars or
Aries there seems to plunge into life head-first as if it is eager to ‘get out there and get
on with things’. Many births with Pluto rising or Scorpio ascending involve a close life-
and-death struggle, with the mother or the infant in great danger during the delivery.
Regression and rebirthing therapists who also work with astrology confirm the
correlation between the sign or planet on the Ascendant and the birth experience.



More broadly, the Ascendant and 1st house denote our relationship to the archetype
of Initiation itself. The rising sign not only describes something about the actual birth,
but also the inborn expectations and images we have whenever we have to ‘get
something started’. The Ascendant suggests the fashion or manner by which we will
enter into different phases or aspects of life. Anytime we experience something akin to
a birth, each time we embrace a new area, facet or level of experience, the qualities of
the Ascendant and 1st house are evoked. Each new beginning resonates with the
qualities of earlier new beginnings, reawakening similar issues and associations.
Capricorn or Saturn rising, for example, hesitates and holds back not just with the actual
birth but with any transition into a new phase of life.

The style in which we meet life in general is shown by the Ascendant and 1st house.
The image which comes to mind is that of a bird pecking itself out of an egg. We can
‘hatch’ into things in different ways. A Cancer rising bird knows it has to hatch, cracks
the shell, and then decides it’s safer in the egg it knows. The Taurus rising bird will be
slow to hatch but, once the process is begun, will carry it through in a determined and
steady fashion. The Leo rising bird will wait until the conditions are suitable to make a
dramatic, noble or dignified entrance, exhibiting itself proudly to the world. As an
exercise, the reader might try imagining how the other rising signs ‘hatch’ into life or
approach different phases of experience.

The Ascendant may be the way we hatch but what we grow into is the Sun sign. In
other words, the Ascendant is the path leading to the Sun. For instance, a woman with
the Sun in Aries and Virgo rising might discover her ability to initiate, lead and inspire
(Aries) through developing Virgo qualities – such as the measuring of her energy in a
focused and precise manner. A man with the Sun in Pisces and Libra rising may
discover his way of healing and serving others (Pisces) through an important one-to-one
relationship or artistic endeavour (Libra). The Ascendant flowers into the Sun. Or, as
Liz Greene expresses it, the Sun is the kind of hero we are, but the Ascendant is the
quest on which we must embark. The Sun is why we are here; the Ascendant is how we
get there.

The signs and planets in the 1st house indicate the kinds of functions which will be
most valuable in the process of realizing our own unique identity. These are the tasks
that we need to fulfil in order to more wholly unravel who we are. We cannot be
complete until we have recognized, explored and developed these qualities. In this
respect, it is useful to bear in mind that the signs and planets (in any house) can be
compared to a lift in a department store. The lift can let us off at the first floor for
women’s shoes, the second floor for men’s clothes, or go directly to the restaurant at the
top. Similarly, Mars or Aries, for instance, can, on one level, signify impulsiveness and
rashness, while on another, courage and bravery. As we expand our awareness, it is
possible to shift and change levels, to move from one form of expression of the sign or
planet to another. Such shifting of levels may need to be experienced with all the
placements in the chart, but it is especially fruitful to experiment in this way with the
energies in the 1st house – the area of the chart so crucial to self-discovery.

Along with the 3rd, 4th and 10th houses, the 1st house denotes something about the



atmosphere in the early environment. We normally encounter the placements in the 1st
house in the highly formative early years of life. For instance, if Jupiter is there, the
person may change countries shortly after birth. With Saturn, there may be a sense of
hardship or restriction during infancy. Because 1st house energies are met and
awakened so early in life, we form a close identification with the archetypes which the
planets and signs there represent. Make a small scratch in the bark of a sapling, and
once grown, the tree has an enormous cut in it.

Conversely, 1st house energies could describe the effect our ‘arrival on the scene’
produces on others. With Uranus or Aquarius there, for example, our arrival may
signify disruption and change. With Pluto or Scorpio there, our birth may coincide with
a major crisis of reorientation for those around us. We bring any sign or planet in the 1st
house along with us wherever we go. This is not surprising since this house is naturally
associated with the cardinal and fiery sign of Aries and the planet Mars. Cardinal fire
represents a principle which radiates out into life. In general, the attributes of any sign
or planet in the 1st house are somehow amplified by being in that position, as if the
volume of their ‘tone’ has been raised. If 1st house energies are not obvious in the
person, then something else in the chart is probably hampering their expression, and
this blockage should be examined.

Since the sign on the Ascendant has such a great influence on the manner in which
we meet life, the qualities of this sign will be reflected and embodied to some degree in
our overall physical appearance and countenance. Many astrologers claim the ability to
rectify an uncertain birth-time by assessing which Ascending sign correlates to the
person’s shape and looks. However, it is an over-simplification to assign bodily
appearance to the Ascendant alone. The whole chart is lived and expressed through the
body, and therefore many different factors in the birth map are concretized in the
physiognomy.

Geoffrey Dean’s Recent Advances in Natal Astrology recounts some of the studies
which have been conducted on the relationship between placements in the chart and
physical appearance. The American astrologer Zipporah Dobyns believes that the
position of the ruler of the Ascendant (the planet which rules the sign on the 1st house
cusp) is more important in this respect than the sign in which the Ascendant is placed.
The German astrologer, Edith Wangemann, reports a correlation between the Ascendant
sign and ruler with the shape of the head, forehead, and bones around the eyebrows.2

March and McEvers, authors of The Only Way to Learn Astrology Vol. 3, include an
interesting chapter on ‘Looking for Physical Appearance’. They feel the crucial factors
are the sign on the Ascendant, planets in the 1st and 12th houses within 8 or 9 degrees
of the Ascendant, the placement of the ruler of the Ascendant, the Sun sign, and planets
near the MC.3

Obviously, correlating physical appearance with the chart is quite complex.
Nonetheless, some of the possible physical manifestations are given in Chapter 17.

In general, when assessing any of the workings of the Ascendant, a number of
factors needs to be considered: the sign on the Ascendant; the ruling planet – its sign,
house and aspects; planets near the Ascendant; and aspects to the Ascendant itself. An



explanation of these factors is found on pages 125-6.
At the moment of birth, a physical embodiment of one of the myriad possibilities of

life rises out of the unbounded matrix of being. As beautiful as this may sound, we are
in fact not born with the comprehension of ourselves as separate and individual entities;
nor do we arrive with an awareness of ourselves as some manifestation of universal
spirit, or as an expression of one of the many faces of what some term God. However, it
is through developing the sign on the Ascendant and planets in the 1st house that we
will become not only more aware of who we are as unique individuals, but also more
conscious of our relation to the greater whole of which we are a part. The next eleven
houses describe further stages in that journey.

Notes – Chapter 3
1. Arthur Koestler cited in Ken Wilber, The Atman Project, Theosophical Publishing

House, Illinois, USA, 1980, p. 8.
2. Geoffrey Dean, Recent Advances in Natal Astrology, The Astrological Association,

London, 1977, pp. 399-411.
3. Marion March and Joan McEvers, The Only Way to Learn Astrology, Vol. 3, Astro

Computing Services, California, 1982, pp. 211-30.

* Any planet or sign in a house always suggests the most natural way to unfold the life-plan in the area of life the
house represents. To avoid endless repetition of this concept, I do not always state this explicitly in the examples
used in this part of the book.



4.

THE SECOND HOUSE

Mama may have, Papa may have but God bless the child that got his own
Billie Holiday

With the 1st house, the initial spark of individual identity has manifested and our
general approach to life has been defined. Now the task at hand is the further
elaboration of who we are, the forging of a more solid sense of ‘I’ or the personal ego.*
We need more definition, more substance, a greater sense of our own worth and
abilities. We need some idea of what it is that we possess which we can call our own.
We also should have some notion of what we value, of what we would like to accrue or
gain so that we can structure our life accordingly. The 2nd house, associated with the
earthy sign of Taurus and the planet Venus, and usually described under the umbrella of
‘Values, Possessions, Money and Resources’, covers this phase of the journey.

The traditional labelling of the 2nd house makes it sound as if it covers only that
which is concrete and tangible and of interest to the tax inspector. Don’t be fooled –
there is much more under this umbrella than meets the eye.

Although birth is the beginning of our development as a separate individual, it
usually takes up to six months before we recognize we have a body, and even longer to
fully differentiate self from not-self. A big step forward towards establishing ourselves
as an entity distinct from everything else is taken when we realize that Mother (who is
the whole world to us) is actually not us. Before then, she has been seen purely as an
extension of who we are. Gradually we develop a sense of inhabiting a physical form
which is not hers nor anybody else’s: ‘These are my toes, not Mother’s toes; these are
my hands, not Mother’s hands – they belong to me, they define me, they are what I am
and what I possess.’ But the discovery of our body as separate also awakens a sense of
our vulnerability and finiteness which has not been present before. With this fearful
realization comes the need to defend the separate self against death and destruction. We
yearn to make ourselves more stable, permanent, solid and enduring.

The body is the first thing by which we define ourselves, but the way is now paved
for further self-definition as we attach more and more things to ourselves through which
we derive and give substance to our ego-identity. As time goes by we will develop a
sense of other things we possess besides the body – a good mind, a clever tongue, a
sympathetic nature, a practical ability, an artistic flair, etc. The 2nd house describes
what we possess or hope to possess as well as those resources or attributes which, when
developed, will give us the sense of substance, value, worth, safety and security
previously provided by our identification with Mother. For most people this is money,
although its mindless pursuit leads not to self-definition but to despair: witness the



number of men queuing to jump off the tenth-floor window-ledge after the crash of
1929. More positively, the desire for money may serve as a spur to develop certain
qualities and faculties which otherwise might remain latent. Although the 2nd house is
traditionally associated with money, it should be noted that other things can fulfil the
need for safety, security and a more substantial sense of identity besides enlarging our
bank balance.

Second house

On a more basic level, the 2nd house is an indication of what constitutes our
personal security. Different things represent security to different people. For instance, if
Gemini or Mercury is in the 2nd house then possessing knowledge may be what makes
the person feel safe. Those with Pisces or Neptune in the 2nd could derive their security
from a ‘spiritual’ philosophy or religion. If something makes us feel more safe and
secure, then naturally we will want to acquire it.

Signs and planets in the 2nd house also serve as guidelines indicating the kinds of
inherent faculties and capabilities which we can develop and concretize, and through
which we gain a greater sense of self-worth. The 2nd house depicts our innate wealth
which can be tapped – our substance or soil which can be tilled productively. For
instance, if Mars or Aries should fall there, then potential valuable qualities which the
person might actualize would be along the lines of what Mars and Aries represent:
courage, directness and the ability to know what one wants and how to get it. Venus and
Libra might bestow natural good taste, artistic talent, diplomatic savoir-faire, or
physical attractiveness as assets. Any placement in any house gives clues to our most
natural path of unfoldment in that area of life. Why not listen to these clues?

In addition to providing a stocklist of potential capacities, the 2nd house also
designates our relationship to the sphere of money and possessions: that is, our attitudes
towards the material world and the conditions we encounter in this realm. Whether we
worship Mammon as a god or consider the world of form as all maya or illusion would
be shown by placements here. Also indicated is the manner, style or rhythm with which
we approach earning money and the development of skills and resources – be it keen,
lethargic or fitful. Do we hold on tight or do we allow things to slip through our



fingers? Do we have to exert tremendous effort in this area of life or are we blessed
with a Midas touch? Do we still want what we have once we have managed to obtain it?

For example, Mars or Aries in the 2nd could indicate an eagerness to amass money
as well as the propensity to spend it rashly. There may be a tendency to associate how
‘macho’ one is with the capacity to earn wealth and acquire possessions. Money could
be earned through professions associated with Mars – anything from working for the
military establishment to ironmongery. Venus’ style in this house is very different – she
may lure money to her rather than clamour after it and perceive wealth and riches as a
way of augmenting her seductiveness and appeal. Money could be earned through
professions associated with Venus – anything from the fine arts to working in the
cosmetics department at Harrods. Liberace, the popular pianist who outrageously
parades his wealth and extremes of taste, was born with Uranus in Pisces in the 2nd.
Machiavelli, who believed that the end justified any means, was born with Mars in this
house. Karl Marx, whose political and economic theories have changed history, was
born with both the Sun and Moon in Taurus in the 2nd.

More broadly, 2nd house placements designate what we value and hope to gain in
life. This is extremely crucial, because we base our whole existence on such criteria.
When our values change, our whole life-focus can alter dramatically. In the 1960s,
scores of executives abandoned their secure jobs and offices on Madison Avenue,
stripped off their Brooks Brothers’ suits and donned their bell-bottoms in search of a
new life in California – all because of a shift in values.

The 2nd house shows what we desire. Desire-energy is a mysterious and powerful
force: in fact, what we desire, value or appreciate largely determines what we attract
into our lives. There is an allegory pertaining to this principle. The people of a small
town had such an enormous appreciation for a certain world-famous and acclaimed
artist that they wrote to his agent to ask if this illustrious man would deign to visit their
town. The agent replied in no uncertain terms that the famous artist had no time to spare
to travel to such an insignificant municipality as theirs. Undismayed, the people there
established study societies to explore more deeply the work, life and philosophy of their
beloved artist, and they even commissioned a statue of him to be erected in the town
centre. Eventually the artist heard of the overwhelming enthusiasm and love which
these people felt for his work. Naturally, he grew curious enough to journey to this little
town where all this fuss was being made over him. In the end, not only did he visit the
town but he felt so welcomed there that he decided to make it his new home. Against all
odds, the depth and quality of these people’s desire and appreciation for the artist had
literally drawn him to them. Understood in this way, through valuing and appreciating
the qualities associated with a planet which falls in the 2nd house, we are likely to
create situations which draw this principle to us, or bring it to the fore. Transits and
progressions to the 2nd house indicate those times of shifts and alterations to the desire-
nature.

We all tend to form our sense of identity and security primarily from what we own,
possess or attach to ourselves – be it the body, the home, the bank balance, the spouse,
our children or a religious philosophy. However, deriving an identity from anything



external or relative is ultimately precarious and conditional. Any of these could at any
time be removed from us or suddenly lose their relevance. Even our body, which is the
first thing we have labelled as our own and through which we gained our initial sense of
‘I’, must eventually be ‘let go of’ and sacrificed. Perhaps our only real security comes
from an identification with that part of us which remains when everything else we
thought we were is stripped away. To paraphrase Jung: we only discover what supports
us when everything else we thought supported us doesn’t support us anymore.1 It is
worth reflecting on the wisdom of certain American Indian tribes which required that at
the end of each year, the richest man in the village – the one who had successfully
appropriated the most wealth to himself – gave away everything he had accrued.

Notes – Chapter 4
1. C. G. Jung, Psychology and Alchemy, Vol. 12, para. 32, Collected Works of Jung,

Princeton, New Jersey, Princeton University Press.

* Ego can be defined as ‘the centre of the field of consciousness’ (Jung’s definition). We are born into an ego-less
state, because we are unconscious of existing as a separate entity. In the 2nd house, we become aware of our own
distinct body; therefore it could be said that we have a body-ego. In the 3rd house, the mind differentiates from the
body, and we develop a mental-ego. Once established, the boundaries of the ego can keep expanding.



5.

THE THIRD HOUSE

We read the world wrong, and say that it deceives us.
Tagore

In the womb and for some months after birth, nothing is perceived as separate from
ourselves – everything is seen as an extension of who we are. Eventually we become
aware of our own distinct body. We discover its biological needs and wants and the kind
of equipment we have been given to operate in the world to fulfil these. A sense of
physical separateness from the mother develops and thereafter the sense of separateness
from the rest of the environment. It is only when we have distinguished ourselves from
the totality of life that we can actually begin to see and understand what there is around
us, and enter into a relationship with what we find. Having established some awareness
of our own boundary and shape, we can now explore the boundaries and shapes of other
things. By the time we reach the 3rd house – the area of the chart associated with
Mercury and Gemini – we are sufficiently evolved to examine the environment more
closely, to interact with it, and to form ideas and opinions about what we meet.

Developmentally, the 3rd house corresponds to the stage in life when we begin to
crawl and learn to walk. Provided that we feel reasonably secure (the feeling that
‘Mother is at home’) and with the stipulation that the environment is not too repressive,
we naturally relish our greater independence and autonomy. We want to grow and
explore. Akin to this is the development of language and the ability to communicate and
name things. All this sounds like fun, and yet ironically our growing autonomy and our
increasing facility to operate in the world confront us head on with a frustrating sense of
our own inadequacy and smallness. There are things out there which are bigger than we
are, which are scary and threatening; there are certain laws and limits – some things we
are allowed to do or say, and are even praised for, while other things we do or say are
reprehended with a scowl or firm slap. Welcome to the world of relativity! What a
jigsaw puzzle! It is enough of a task to find all the pieces, let alone figure out how to
put them together.

Most psychologists affirm that a true sense of individuality does not develop until
language is learned: the typical noun-verb structure of most languages helps the
growing child to distinguish subject from object, and in this way, the actor becomes
separate from the action. (Little Johnny is not the ball, but he can throw the ball.)
Accordingly, the child becomes more conscious of the self as a distinct entity – as a
‘doer’ or the one who is done to. Everything is no longer the same amorphous blob.1

Through language, the child also enters the world of symbols, ideas and concepts,
and, for the first time, is able to imagine sequences of events beyond what is



immediately available to the senses or the body. Attention can now be focused not just
on what is present, but also on hypothetical and abstract qualities of existence. In short,
with the advent of language, the mind (or mental self) frees and differentiates itself
from the body.2

Third house

Traditionally, astrologers have associated the 3rd house with what is known as ‘the
concrete mind’ and the 9th house (opposite the 3rd) with ‘the abstract mind’. Recent
scientific investigation confirms what astrologers have always known – that the mind
can be divided into two parts. Studies begun in the 1960s have demonstrated that the
left and right sides of the brain correspond to different kinds of mental activity.3 The
‘concrete mind’ of the 3rd house (in league with the Mercury-ruled 6th house) is
analogous to the activities of the left side of the brain. This is the part of the brain which
is concerned with rational and sequential thought, the fact-gathering aspect of the mind.
The left brain controls that part of us that can talk about, analyse, pigeon-hole,
compartmentalize and classify what we experience. Third house placements describe
our mental style – how we think – but with particular reference to the left-brain
functions. Is our mind slow, fast, logical or woolly? Are our thoughts original or do they
usually reflect the thinking of those around us? Examine the 3rd house and find out.

Furthermore, planets and signs in the 3rd reveal our relationship or attitude to
knowledge itself. For instance, a person with Mars in the 3rd may believe that
knowledge is power; but those with the Moon in this house may seek knowledge for the
security it brings them, for the sense of safety and well-being they gain through
mastering how something works.

As children, what we think about is mostly related to what we find in our immediate
environment. Signs and planets in the 3rd house indicate what is ‘out there’ for us.
However, as in the case of the Ascendant and 1st house, placements in the 3rd reveal
our predisposition to perceive certain aspects of the environment and neglect or miss
others. For example, those with Venus in the 3rd ‘drink’ Venus from the environment.
They naturally imbibe the more harmonious and pleasing aspects of what is around
them – those things which invite them to be congenial and harmonious in return. But



those with Saturn there tend to perceive the more restrictive and colder aspects of the
environment, and therefore, in their eyes, it is not a safe enough place in which to freely
romp about. In this sense, placements in the 3rd describe both what we attribute to the
immediate environment, as well as what we take away from it. ‘What you see is what
you get.’ Both the chicken and the egg are alive and well and roosting in the 3rd house.

Some of the first things we might bump up against in the immediate environment are
brothers and sisters. The 3rd house denotes our relationship with them as well as with
uncles, aunts, neighbours, cousins and the like. (Obviously, mother and father are
usually present as well, but they are so important that they each warrant other houses of
their own.) Signs and planets in the 3rd signify the nature of the bond between us and a
sibling, or these placements may be an apt description of the sibling – or at least those
qualities we project onto him or her. For example, Saturn in the 3rd could mean that we
experience difficulty and conflict in relating with a brother, or we see him as cold and
unloving, or that we experience that part of us which is cold and unloving as coming
from him. It is a common psychological precept that, one way or another, we manage to
coerce others to ‘act out’ or ‘take on’ those aspects of our own psyche from which we
are cut off. The impulse of life is towards wholeness, and if we are not living our
wholeness then the outside will bring the missing elements to us. Energies in the 3rd
house which we have not acknowledged as our own don’t just disappear – instead, they
find someone or something else in the immediate environment through which to
manifest.

Consultant astrologers will find it useful to question clients about early sibling
relationships in the light of placements in the 3rd house. Where were they in terms of
ordinal position – eldest, middle or youngest? Was there the feeling that a younger
sibling usurped their central position in the family? Did an older sibling take out his or
her frustration at being dethroned onto them? How competitive were siblings? Were
boy children treated differently from girl children? Finally, issues relating to the death
of siblings, either prior to or after one’s own birth, are extremely pertinent and more
often than not are revealed in the chart. Patterns established with brothers and sisters
early in life may repeat themselves with husbands, wives, co-workers, bosses and
friends at a later stage of development.

The 3rd house also indicates something about the early schooling experience. School
gives us a chance to see what we are like with other people besides our own family, and
the opportunity to compare what our parents have told us with what others have to say.
We also learn as much from our peers as we do from our teachers. Throughout
childhood and early adolescence (the period of time traditionally associated with this
house), we assimilate more and more information, which ultimately forms a code of
practical rules and ‘truths’ by which we give order and meaning to life. How we fare
during these tricky, formative years is shown by the 3rd house.

In mythology, Mercury (the natural ruler of the 3rd) was in charge of distributing
information to and from the various gods. Likewise, all forms of communication –
writing, speaking, the media, etc. – come under this house. The 3rd house mind draws
connections between one field of study or branch of knowledge and another, and takes



pleasure exploring all the myriad forms of life. Bits of information are gathered here
and there, and usually some effort is made to perceive how the various parts fit into a
larger whole.

The tone and colour of our experiences on short journeys (normally taken to mean
within the country of residence) are ascribed to this house. In general, a planet in a
house predisposes us to meet the principle it symbolizes on any of the different levels
represented by the house: Saturn in the 3rd, for instance, could give problems with
studies and/or with siblings and/or with short journeys. Whatever the outer
manifestation, it is ultimately ‘symptomatic’ of a deeper, underlying issue – the desire
to explore, discover, and relate to life (3rd house) is beset with fears and apprehension
(Saturn) which are calling out to be examined and understood.

There is sometimes a correlation between having many planets in the 3rd and
experiencing frequent changes of environment in the growing-up years. The effect of
these moves on a person will vary according to the rest of the chart. Some will develop
an exceptional flexibility and ease at fitting into different situations, while others might
defend themselves against the pain of being wrenched away from established contacts
by avoiding relating too deeply with anyone else. The latter attitude, unless faced and
dealt with, could remain with them throughout their lives. Others might compensate for
a disruptive childhood by later seeking a stable home at any cost.

Placements in the 3rd often correlate with professions such as teaching, writing,
journalism, printing, media work, lecturing, selling, transport work, secretarial jobs and
the like. Johnny Carson, reportedly one of the highest-paid American television chat
show hosts, was born with the friendly conjunction of Moon and Jupiter in the 3rd.
Hans Christian Andersen, the Danish writer whose fairy tales continue to enthral
children of all ages, was born with the imaginative Venus in Pisces in the 3rd, along
with the Sun and Mercury (in Aries). Lenny Bruce, the satirical comedian who upset
many people by joking about what others considered taboo, was born with shocking
Uranus in this house.

In conclusion, the 3rd house describes the context in which we view the immediate
environment. It is advisable to remember that content is a function of context: the way
in which we perceive something determines how we will relate to it.

An Indian story makes this point nicely. A group is walking through a town just after
sunset when they come upon what appears to be a snake on the ground in front of them.
In terror, the alarm is raised, ambulances are summoned, and hospitals are put on alert
in case of any mishap. Everyone else scurries back to the safety of their own house to
hide. The sun rises as usual the next morning, and as the light dawns, they discover that
what they thought was a snake was in actual fact only a long piece of string someone
had discarded on the pavement. All that hubbub because of a piece of string.

Because we so often forget the part we play in constituting the world, it is useful to
examine the 3rd house and assess the general context through which we are prone to
interpret the immediate environment. Do we tend to see a snake or a piece of string?
Becoming conscious of the preconceptions and attitudes that are suggested by the
placements in this house ultimately makes it possible for us to work more creatively



within their framework.

Notes – Chapter 5
1. Peter Russell, The Awakening Earth, Routledge and Kegan Paul, London, 1983, p.

103.
2. Wilber, p. 29.
3. Marilyn Ferguson, The Aquarian Conspiracy, Granada, London, 1981, p. 81.



6.

THE IMUM COELI AND THE FOURTH HOUSE 

Who looks outside dreams; who looks inside wakes.
Jung

In the 1st house we are virtually unaware of ourselves in any objective sense. We just
are. In the 2nd, we discover that we have our own shape and boundary which
distinguishes us from everything else. In the 3rd, we turn our attention to what
surrounds us, interacting with the other shapes and boundaries in our immediate
environment to see what these are all about. By comparing what we are with what we
come up against, we formulate even more opinions about ourselves. In the process, we
lose the sense that we are everything, but gain in return the feeling that we are a
someone – someone who inhabits a particular body, who thinks in a particular way, and
who comes from a particular family background. As we approach the nadir of the chart
– the IC and the 4th house – it’s time to pause and assimilate what we have learned. The
task at hand is to gather our bits and pieces and integrate these around a central point, or
‘I’, which from now on will form the basis of our identity. Some people carry on
gathering new bits of information all their lives and never pause to take root or
consolidate at all (too much 3rd house and not enough 4th house). Others settle down
and root too soon, before enough of life has been explored (too much 4th house and not
enough 3rd).

It is not uncommon for people preoccupied with career and outer achievements in
the world to be so active and busy with appointments and meetings that they hardly
spend any time at home. Similarly, we all have a tendency to become so ‘caught up’ and
identified with activity and external happenings that we neglect and lose touch with the
‘I’ that is there underneath it all. We are so engaged in what we are seeing, what we are
feeling, or what we are doing, that we forget about the ‘I’ that is doing the seeing,
having the feelings or performing the actions. What we encounter when we withdraw
our awareness from the transitory objects of experience and reconnect with the
underlying ‘I’, which is the subject of all experience, is designated by the sign on the IC
(cusp of the 4th house in Quadrant systems) and the planets in the 4th.

The sense of a ‘me-in-here’ provided by the IC and 4th house lends an inner unity to
all thoughts, feelings, perceptions and actions. In the same way that we are biologically
self-maintaining and self-regulating, the IC and 4th house serve to maintain the
individual characteristics of the self in a stable form.

The 4th house represents where we go when we settle back into ourselves – the inner
centre where our ‘I’ returns to rest before launching into activity again. It is the base of
operations from which we meet life. For this reason, the 4th house has been



traditionally associated with the home, the soul and the roots of the being. The
American Indians believed that you opened your soul to someone when you invited that
person into your home. As opposed to our public face, the 4th house describes what we
are like deep down inside. The Jungian analyst James Hillman describes soul as ‘that
unknown component which makes meaning possible.’ The soul deepens events into
experiences and mediates between the doer and the deed. ‘Between us and events …
there is a reflective moment – and soul-making means differentiating this middle
ground.’1 The subtle way a person turns events into experiences is shown by the IC and
4th house.

Fourth house

The IC and 4th house signify the influence on us of our ‘family of origin’, the family
into which we were born. Planets and signs in the 4th reveal the atmosphere we felt in
that home, and the kind of conditioning or ‘scripting’ we received there – the
psychological family inheritance. Delving even deeper, the 4th denotes qualities we
carry stemming from our racial or ethnic origins: those aspects of the accumulated
history and evolution of our race which reside within us. For example, Saturn in the 4th
or Capricorn on the IC sometimes describes a home atmosphere which was felt as cold,
strict or unloving, or a background of a long line of staunch conservatives; while Venus
in the 4th or Libra on the IC will likely be more attuned to the love and harmony within
the early home, and may feel an affinity and appreciation for the tradition out of which
it has come. The Moon or Cancer there blend easily into the home environment,
whereas Uranus or Aquarius in this position often feels like a stranger in a strange land,
curiously wondering how it ‘ended up’ in that particular family. Marcel Proust, who in
The Remembrance of Things Past explored in unsurpassed detail his early life and
innermost feelings, and the workings of memory itself, was born with the Sun, Mercury,
Jupiter and Uranus all in Cancer in the 4th.

The influence parental figures have on us is normally attributed to the 4th-10th house
axis. Traditionally it has always made sense to associate the 4th house (naturally ruled
by the Moon and Cancer) with the Mother, and the 10th house (naturally ruled by
Saturn and Capricorn) with the Father. Most astrologers were content with this



classification, but the work of Liz Greene has shed some ambiguity in this area. She has
found from her considerable experience and expertise as an astrological consultant that
her clients’ descriptions of the relationship to their mothers seemed to correlate more
closely with the 10th house, while the image of father worked better with the 4th.2

There are solid cases for and against both schools of thought. Since the 4th house is
linked to Cancer and the Moon, then it would seem reasonable to assign it to the
mother. Her womb was our original home, and in infancy we are more responsive to the
mother’s moods and feelings than to the father’s. The father is then connected to the
10th house, Saturn and Capricorn: after all, he is normally the breadwinner and the one
out before the public, and it used to be the practice that the son followed the father’s
profession. However, the opposing arguments are equally convincing. The Moon is not
just mother; it is also our origins and we inherit our name from the father. In this way,
he can be associated with the 4th house. The 10th house is much more obvious than the
4th, and the mother is much more obvious to the child than the father. The maternity of
the child is a clear fact – up front and publicly recognizable like the 10th house.
Paternity is more speculative, sometimes hidden and perhaps even a mystery and
therefore maybe better correlated to the more hidden and mysterious IC point and the
4th house. Also, in Western society at least, the mother is usually the child’s prime
socializing influence. She is the great ‘nay-sayer’ of childhood, the one with whom we
spend the most time and whose role it is to watch over us and teach us the difference
between what is good and acceptable and what is bad and not allowed. It is normally
the mother who toilet-trains the child – the first major adjustment we have to make in
order to conform to societal standards (Saturn, Capricorn and the 10th house).

I don’t believe that it is possible to fix a view that the 4th is always father and the
10th is always mother or vice versa. It is safer and perhaps more accurate to say that the
‘shaping parent’ – the one with whom the child spends the most time and who has the
most influence on adapting the child to society – should be associated with the 10th
house; and the more ‘hidden parent’, the one who is less visible and who is not so much
of a known quantity, should be connected to the 4th house. In practice, after talking
with a client the astrologer can formulate an educated guess as to which parent belongs
to which house. For instance, if I ascertain that the client’s father is a Gemini with an
Aquarius Moon and I find Gemini on the client’s IC and Uranus in the 4th house, it
would seem likely that the 4th house, in this case, is an apt description of the father. Not
all charts make it this easy, however.

It is important to remember that placements in the 4th (be it mother or father) may
not describe the way the parent actually was as a person, but rather the way in which the
child experienced the parent – what is known as the parent-imago, the child’s a priori
inborn image of the parent. Traditional psychology normally upholds the view that if
something goes wrong between the parent and the child, it is the parent’s fault; by
contrast, psychological astrology places at least half of the responsibility on the child
for experiencing the parent in a particular way. For example (assuming the 4th house to
be the father), a little girl with Saturn in the 4th will be most responsive to the Saturnine
side of her father’s nature. He will probably exhibit many qualities other than those



associated with that archetypal principle, but the child in question will selectively
perceive mainly the Saturn traits. The father may be warm and kind seventy-five per
cent of the time, but the twenty-five per cent for which he is cold and critical will be
what the daughter registers.

More often that not there is a collusion between the parental image in the child’s
chart and key placements in the chart of the parent. For instance, the chart of the girl’s
father with Saturn in the 4th may show the Sun in Capricorn, Capricorn ascending, or a
Sun-Saturn conjunction. However, even if her father’s chart is not that close a
description of the placements in her 4th house, the predilection to see a parent in a
particular way often has the effect of turning the person into what is being projected
onto him. If she keeps reacting to her father as if he is an unkind person even when he is
displaying love and generosity, eventually he might become so frustrated that he turns
sour towards her or gives up and avoids her altogether. And then the little girl says to
herself, ‘The cad – I knew he was like that all along.’ But was he?

We are born with the bare bones of certain innate predispositions and expectations,
but the experiences we have as children add layers upon layers of flesh to these. We
interpret the environment in a certain way and then form concrete attitudes about
ourselves and life ‘out there’ in general based on these perceptions. The little girl we
have been discussing with Saturn in the 4th already has a few existential life-statements
coming to the fore: ‘Father doesn’t love me’ and ‘Father is a cad’ to name but two. She
will carry these inside her even after she has departed from the parental home where
they will blossom into more full-blown attitudes such as, ‘Men find me unworthy and
unlovable’ and ‘All men are cads’. Becoming conscious of the origins of these attitudes
allows for the possibility of changing them, or finding other ways of organizing
experience. Delving into the 4th house, which shows the archetypes activated in the
early home life between ourselves and the parent in question, can greatly aid this
process.

The 4th house, in addition to describing our inherited origins and that which resides
deep within us, is associated with the home base in general. What kind of atmosphere
do we create in the home? What do we attract to ourselves there? What qualities in the
home environment do we most naturally resonate with? These questions can be
answered by examining the planets and signs in the 4th.

T. S. Eliot writes that ‘in my beginning is my end.’ The 4th house depicts our origins
but it is also associated with how we end things. The manner in which we ultimately
resolve an issue or ‘enact a closure’ will be related to placements in the 4th. Venus there
ends things neatly and fairly, all tied up in a pretty bundle. Saturn may prolong or
begrudge an ending. The Moon and Neptune often slip away quietly and peacefully,
while Mars and Uranus ‘go out with a bang’.

The 4th also suggests the conditions surrounding the second half of life. What is
most deep within us comes out at the end. Many of us, after the age of forty, and
perhaps moved by the death of a parent, will become increasingly aware of our
mortality and conscious that there is less time to waste. On this basis, we may willingly
make more space in our lives to express and vent our innermost needs and feelings.



Furthermore, sheer experience of life is a prerequisite for self-discovery, so it is not
surprising that our deepest and most intimate motivations may not emerge until the later
years. One extreme illustration of this is the death-bed confession, in which people
dramatically disclose truths about themselves which they have kept guarded for
decades.

Psychotherapy, self-reflection, various forms of meditation – anything which takes
us into ourselves – bring 4th house energies to the surface and can make these more
consciously available to ourselves earlier in life. Rather than neglecting what’s down
there, it is advisable to deal with difficult placements in this house sooner rather than
later. The 4th house, like our past, always catches up with us.

Notes – Chapter 6
1. James Hillman, Re-Visioning Psychology, Harper Colophon Books, Harper & Row,

1975, p. IX.
2. Liz Greene, Relating, Coventure Ltd, London, 1977, pp. 201-2.



7.

THE FIFTH HOUSE
 

Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the
kingdom of heaven.

Matthew 18:3

In the 4th, we discover our own discrete identity, but in the 5th we revel in it. The fire
of the 1st house burns without even knowing it is burning; the fire of the 5th rages
consciously and is joyfully fanned by the self. The nature of life is to grow, and this
house (naturally associated with Leo and the Sun) reflects our urge to expand, to
become more and more, and to radiate out into life like the Sun. By the time we reach
the 5thhouse, we now know that we are not everything; but we are not content just to be
‘a someone’ – we must be a special someone. We are not all there is, but we can try to
be the most important thing there is.

The function of the Sun in our solar system is twofold: it shines, giving warmth, heat
and life to the Earth, but it also serves as the central organizing principle around which
the planets orbit. In this sense, the Sun is like the personal ego or the ‘I’, the centre of
consciousness around which the different aspects of the self revolve. Individuals with
strong placements in the 5th partake of the qualities of the Sun. They need to shine and
create from inside themselves; they need to feel influential; and they need to feel that
others are revolving around them. To some this means literally always being the centre
of attention – a craving to be worshipped like the Sun. One woman I knew with the Sun
and Mars in the 5th couldn’t tolerate being in the same room with the television on,
because it meant that others in the room might focus on it rather than her. We must
remember that the Sun, although vitally central and important, is not the only Sun in the
galaxy – it is just one of many. The words of a popular song remind us that ‘everybody
is a star’.

Embedded deep in our psyches, and reverberating throughout the 5th house, is an
innate desire to be recognized for our specialness. As children, we believe that the
‘cuter’ or more spell-binding and captivating we are, the more certainly will Mother
want to love and protect us. Enslaving and enchanting others with our unique value and
worth is one way of ensuring we are fed, protected, cared for, and therefore more likely
to stay alive.

Another keynote of the 5th is generativity – which simply defined means ‘the ability
to produce’. These two principles, the need to be loved for our specialness and the
desire to create from inside ourselves, underlie most of the traditional associations with
the 5th house.



The 5th house is the area of the chart attributed to creative expression, most
obviously with artistic endeavours, although the creativity of the 5th needn’t be just
painting a picture or performing a dance. Scientists or mathematicians can apply
themselves to their work with as great an artistry or passion as a Picasso or Pavlova.
The signs and planets in the 5th shed light on the possible outlets for creative
expression. Mercury or Gemini in the 5th may denote a talent for writing or public
speaking; Neptune or Pisces may be absorbed with music, poetry, photography or
dance. Cancer and Taurus might exhibit a flair for cooking; while Virgo in this position
can be exceptionally adept at sewing and handiwork. However, more than describing
which creative outlet we engage in, the placements here suggest the manner and style
with which it is pursued. A piece of music can be an intellectual tour de force (Mercury
or Uranus) or come straight from the heart (Moon or Neptune). Some people produce
spontaneously and joyfully, while others suffer extraordinary birth pangs. Above and
beyond purely creative expression, this is the house of the actor, and depicts the way in
which we tackle the art of living. One client with an obvious 5th house slant described
herself as a ‘professional person’ – and she did not intend this solely in terms of career.

Fifth house

The creative outlets associated with the 5th also include sports and recreation. For
some it is the challenge of athletics: the contest and competition, the joys of winning
and coming first. For others, it is the sheer ecstasy of exertion and the pitting of the self
against the elements or odds. Similarly, gambling and speculation are assigned to the
5th as well – where we test our wit and imagination against fate and chance.

The 5th house is more broadly associated with hobbies, amusements and spare-time
pleasures. These all sound terribly low-key for a house ruled by the Sun and Leo.
However, upon examination, they are more important than they first appear. The 5th
describes activities which make us feel good about ourselves and make us glad to be
alive. Hobbies and spare-time amusements afford the opportunity to participate in what
we want and like to do. Through these pursuits we feel the joy of being fully involved in
something. Unfortunately, many of us have careers or jobs which do not entail this
degree of engagement. There is a great danger that our enthusiasm and vitality would



run dry unless we had spare-time interests to recharge and reinvigorate ourselves. In
this light, hobbies and amusements have an almost therapeutic effect. The word
‘recreation’ literally means to make new, to revitalize and inspire with life and energy.
Planets and signs in the 5th suggest the types of spare-time pursuits we might explore,
and the manner in which this is undertaken.

Romance finds its way under the heading of the 5th house. Besides being exciting,
passionate, heart-wrenching or whatever, romantic encounters enhance our sense of
specialness. We become the main focus of attention for somebody else’s feelings and
we can display our very special love to someone else. Placements in the 5th reveal the
way in which we ‘create romance’ – the archetypal principle(s) most likely activated in
these situations – as well as something about the kind of person who ignites us.

Sexual expression is also linked to the 5th. A good sexual relationship contributes to
our sense of power and worth, highlighting both our ability to give pleasure and the
capacity to attract others to us. This power to enchant and hold the attention of others is
very reassuring and satisfies deeply embedded survival instincts. (Compare this to the
8th – where we seek to transcend our personal boundaries through intimacy.)

All this leads to one of the main representations of the 5th – children, creations of the
body and the physical extensions of the self. Most people primarily express their
creative drives (and symbolically ensure their survival) through generating offspring.
While the 4th and 10th houses indicate how we view our parents, placements in the 5th
describe the archetypes constellated between ourselves and our children. Signs and
planets here reflect what our progeny mean to us. In line with examples from other
houses, placements in this house can be interpreted in a variety of ways. For instance,
Jupiter in the 5th may literally produce Jupiterian children – those born under the sign
of Sagittarius or with Sagittarius rising or Jupiter conjunct an angle or the Sun, etc. Or
we can understand Jupiter in the 5th to mean our predisposition to encounter Jupiter in
that area of life: we project Jupiter onto our children or are prone to register their
Jupiterian side more strongly than any of their other traits. Planets in the 5th also
describe our experience in the role of parent. Saturn there may be terrified of the
responsibility of parenting and afraid that they won’t be good at it. Uranus’ idea of
bringing up children may embrace the most new and avant-garde theories on the
subject.

More than just describing external children, the 5th house could aptly be called the
house of our own Inner Child – that part of us which loves to play and which always
stays eternally young. Inside us all is a spontaneous, natural child who craves to be
loved for his or her own specialness and uniqueness. However, as children, this part of
us is often quashed. Too often, we are loved for conforming and matching up to our
parents’ expectations and standards, rather than for being who we are. In this way, we
lose faith in our budding individuality and become what Transactional Analysis refers
to as ‘the adapted child’. Invariably, we will project the state of our own inner child
onto our actual offspring. We can heal ‘the damaged child’ in ourselves by giving the
love and acceptance we were denied as children to our own progeny or other young
people we encounter. However we do it, it is never too late to have a happy childhood.



We augment and enhance our unique identity and exercise our own power through
the creative outpourings of the 5th. As a by-product, we may even generate stunning
works of art, worthwhile new books and ideas, or interesting children who in some way
contribute to society. Benefiting society, however, is not the main concern of this house.
Witness the reluctance many people have to releasing either their works of art or their
children into the world. In the 5th, we create primarily for ourselves, because the self
takes joy and pride in doing so, and because it is in the nature of the self to create.



8.

THE SIXTH HOUSE

A monk told Joshu: ‘I have just entered the monastery. Please teach me.’
Joshu asked: ‘Have you eaten your rice porridge?’
The monk replied: ‘I have eaten.’
Joshu said: ‘Then you had better wash your bowl.’

A Zen story

The main problem with the 5th house is a tendency to ‘go over the top’. We delight in
self-expression, but we don’t know when to stop. In the 5th house we no longer believe
we are everything, but we still think we can be or do anything. The 6th house follows
the 5th and reminds us of our natural boundaries and the need for clearer self-definition.
Like the philosophy of Zen, the 6th house asks that we respect and regain the
‘perfection of our original nature’,1 that we become what we alone are (no more, no
less), and that we live this in our everyday lives. Our true vocation is to be ourselves.
   
The 6th house shakes a finger at the 5th and retorts:

Very well, it’s wonderful to give expression to your creative flair, but have you
really done it that cleverly? That painting is not quite right yet and you’ve
exhausted yourself staying up two nights working on it.
    

or
    
Sure, you are having quite a sizzling romance, but have you examined the
practicalities of this as a long-term relationship – not to mention the fact you can’t
stand the after-shave he wears? 
    

or
   
Congratulations, you’ve had a baby girl. Now adjust your schedule and life to her
and keep those clean nappies coming. 
    

or
    
Remember that party last week where you really let yourself go? When you look
back, don’t you think you might have offended that shy boy in the corner who
didn’t even have a chance to speak because you monopolized the conversation? 



The time has come to take stock of ourselves, to discriminate between priorities, to
assess the use we are making of our power and capabilities, and above all, to recognize
the limits and truth of our own nature and humanity.

Try as it may, a pear seed can never become an apple tree. Nor should it, if we
believe as Kierkegaard did, that ‘to will to be the self which one truly is, is indeed the
opposite of despair.’2 The 6th house is all about sticking to our plan and blossoming
into precisely what we are meant to be. Doing this feels right and good. But the
consequences for not respecting the truths of our own nature are stress, frustration and
dis-ease: messengers telling us that something is awry and needs to be examined.

Sixth house

‘Reality has both a “within” and a “without”.’3 The 6th house explores the
relationship between what we are inside and what surrounds us on the outside – the
correlation between the inner world of mind and feelings and the outer world of form
and the body. The traditional 6th house labels, ‘health, work, service, and adjustment to
necessity’, all stem from this bodymind connection.

It is a basic fact of existence that life has to be lived within boundaries. No matter
how divine or wonderful we think we are, we still have to eat, brush our teeth, pay bills
and cope with the necessities of everyday, mundane reality. Furthermore, each of us has
a particular body, a particular mind, and some particular task to perform. We are
‘designed’ in a certain way to serve a purpose or function specified in our own
individual make-up and nature. Nobody can fulfil that purpose better than ourselves.
We serve best by being who we are. Through the necessary adjustments and
refinements of the 6th house, we become what we alone can be.

Somebody once said that ‘work is the rent we pay for life’. For many of us, work is
something we have to do in order to support daily existence. Daily employment also
implies routine and adjustment. We have to arrive there more or less on time, and we
cannot be as free and spontaneous as we might like with our lives if we know the alarm



clock is set to ring at seven the next morning. We have to structure our time, establish
priorities, and make dispensations. In one way, the need to follow a rigid schedule helps
to order and pattern life. We escape the existential anxiety which freedom of choice
might provoke: we have a job and we know where we must be.

Ideally, however, the work-force is composed of varied individuals each performing
the particular skills they have developed best. The end result is a perfectly finished
product or the maintenance of the proper functioning of society. Planets and signs in the
6th describe issues relating to work and employment, and suggest the tasks that we can
potentially do most well. Placements in this house may reveal the nature of our jobs –
Jupiter or Sagittarius could be a travel agent, the Moon or Cancer look after children,
and Neptune or Pisces draw pints at the local pub. But much more than describing the
type of employment, the placements here suggest the way in which we approach (or
should approach) doing the job – not just what we do, but how we do it. For instance,
those with Saturn or Capricorn here may prefer a stable job with clearly defined
requirements, at which they can work slowly and steadily; while those with Uranus and
Aquarius in this house normally hate to punch a clock and would much rather work
without a boss looking over them.

The nature of relationships with co-workers is also shown by 6th house placements.
Venus or Libra here may fall in love with someone at work, while Pluto or Scorpio stirs
up intrigues and complex encounters. The 6th house is ‘naturally squared’ the 3rd (see
page 97) and ‘unfinished business’ around sibling and early peer relationships may
resurface with co-workers.

Through employment situations, we find ourselves in relationships of inequality.
Thirty people may be working under us, and we may, in turn, be subordinate to thirty
others. How we cope with dispensing authority, and how we manage in the more
subservient position is shown by the 6th. It is a kind of rehearsal for the relationships of
equality we form in the 7th house.

The 6th house also describes our relationship to the mechanic who works on our car,
our doctor and his or her receptionist, the milkman – in fact anyone who is serving us in
some way. Conversely, our own qualities as ‘a server’ and our deeper feelings and
attitudes regarding service are shown by placements here. This is not to be taken lightly,
as many people view humility and service as the pinnacle of human endeavour – as the
path to God and more enlightened states of being.

The way we use our time and the kind of atmosphere we need in order to function
happily in daily life is shown by the 6th. Signs and planets in this house colour the
energies we bring (or should bring) into everyday tasks and how we approach the rituals
of mundane existence. Mars in the 6th may clean the house like a ‘white tornado’, while
Neptune is still trying to remember where it left the mop.

Pets – who are around us in our everyday life – are also assigned to the 6th house.
This may seem a trivial consideration and yet a good number of people are profoundly
affected by their experience of caring for animals. Pets can be the ‘hook’ for any variety
of projections and for some people their relationship to their dog or cat is as important
as with any human. In certain cases, pets assuage what would otherwise be an



unbearable sense of loneliness or feelings of uselessness. The loss or death of a beloved
animal can trigger many psychological and philosophical issues.

There is an obvious relation between work and health – the other major concern of
the 6th house. Although the dominant work ethic of Western culture may seem extreme
or easily abused, nonetheless the need to be productive and useful is somehow basic to
human nature. Overwork strains the health, while too little work can leave us listless
and lethargic. Redundancy not only deprives us of a source of income, but also a source
of a sense of worth and purpose. Studies have shown that the number of reported
illnesses increases in areas where the unemployment rate is rising. Conversely, some
people will use illness as a way of escaping from a job they hate or which doesn’t suit
them.

The 6th house concern for craftsmanship, perfection and technical proficiency
applies to issues of health as well as work. Optimally the body is a finely tuned
mechanism where the different cells work for the good of the larger organism. Each cell
is an entity in itself and yet each one is part of a larger system. Each cell must ‘do its
thing’ but each must also submit to the demands of the greater whole. In a healthy
person (as in a healthy society) each individual component asserts itself and yet works
in harmony with the other components. The 6th house asks that we bring our different
parts – that is, our mind, body and feelings – into a harmonious working relationship.

Many individuals with 6th house placements are especially interested in health and
fitness, some to an obsessive degree. In extreme cases, special diets and techniques for
maintaining the optimal functioning of the body dominate and structure the life, leaving
little time for anything else. However, many excellent healers have a 6th house
emphasis, and it can be associated with traditional medicine as well as careers in
homoeopathy, osteopathy, herbalism, massage, etc.

It has already been mentioned that the body, mind and emotions operate as a unit.
What we think and feel will affect the body. Conversely, the state of the body will
influence how we think and feel. Psyche (mind) and soma (body) are inextricably
linked. Physiological and chemical imbalances give rise to psychological problems,
while emotional and mental turmoil can manifest in physical symptoms. The 6th house
may reveal something about the underlying psychological significance of certain
illnesses. Saturn could indicate a rigidity in meeting everyday life, as well as arthritis.
Mars in the 6th rushes into life, works itself to a frazzle, only to be diagnosed later with
high blood-pressure. However, it is an over-simplification to refer to the 6th house only
in relation to health. The American Book of Nutrition and Medical Astrology by Eileen
Naumann (published by Astro Computing Services, San Diego, California) examines
medical astrology in great depth, and is highly recommended.

Through 6th house issues we refine, perfect and purify ourselves, and ultimately
become a better ‘channel’ for being who we are. We could be the most wonderfully
inspired artist (5th house) but unless we learn the tools of the craft (6th house) – the
right use of brushes, paints and canvas – we won’t be able to concretize or realize our
possibilities. It has been said that ‘technique is the liberation of the imagination’. These
are true watchwords for the 6th house.



We embark on life unconscious of our unique individuality and by the end of the 6th
house we have a much more defined sense of our own particular identity and purpose.
Like the 3rd house, the 6th house employs the left-brain activity of reducing things to
parts. The problem with the 6th is that we end up seeing the world too much in terms of
‘what is me’ and ‘what is not me’. When we characterize ourselves by those features
which distinguish us from others – our weight, height, skin colour, job, car, house – we
are left with the feeling that there is an absolute distinction between who we are and
who other people are. While it is the purpose of the first six houses to make us more
fully aware of ourselves as separate individuals, it remains for the last six houses (the
7th to the 12th) to reunite us with others again. Otherwise life is awfully lonely.

Notes – Chapter 8
1. Fritjof Capra, The Tao of Physics, Fontana/Collins, England, 1981, p. 127.
2. Søren Kierkegaard cited in Rowan, p. 62.
3. Pierre Teilhard de Chardin cited in Ferguson, p. 201.



9.

THE DESCENDANT AND THE SEVENTH HOUSE

Driven by the force of love the fragments of the world seek each other that the world
may come into being.

Pierre Teilhard de Chardin

The 6th house is the last of what is known as ‘the personal houses’, and represents the
refinement of the individual personality through work, service, humility and attention to
everyday life and the physical body. Taking a microscope to life, the 6th house analyses
and categorizes it into different parts, giving each part its appropriate place and purpose.
We now know precisely how we differ from everybody and everything else. But, by the
end of the 6th house, we have grown as separate from one another as life will allow, and
we have a new lesson to learn: that nothing exists in isolation. When we arrive at the
Descendant, the westernmost point in the chart, we turn a sharp corner and find
ourselves heading back again to the point where it all started. It will be the work of the
7th to 12th houses to reconnect us once more to the lost sense of our unity with all life.

The Descendant is the cusp of the 7th house and the point opposite the Ascendant.
Traditionally, the Ascendant is considered the ‘point of self-awareness’ and the
Descendant is considered ‘the point of awareness of others’. It describes our approach
to relationships and the qualities (along with the planets in the 7th) that we are looking
for in a partner. Michael Meyer in A Handbook for the Humanistic Astrologer also
writes that the Descendant (and the 7th house) denotes the kinds of activities that give
the individual the experiences ‘he needs in order to realize the significance of others’.1

Similarly, the 1st house is traditionally known as ‘the house of the self’. The 7th
house, which is the farthest from the 1st, is labelled ‘the house of the not-self’. It is also
known as ‘the house of marriage’ and curiously as ‘the house of open enemies’.
Marriage here is taken to mean any important relationship based on mutual
commitment, legally contracted or otherwise. In the 7th house, two people come
together for a purpose – to enhance the quality of their lives by joining with one
another, to produce a family and gain greater security and stability, and to assuage
loneliness and isolation.

Most astrological textbooks teach that the planets and signs in the 7th house describe
the marriage partner, or ‘the significant other’. This is true as far as it goes. Placements
in the 7th often indicate the kind of partner(s) to whom we are attracted. For instance, a
man with the Moon in the 7th may seek a partner who reflects the qualities of the
Moon: someone who is receptive, compassionate and caring. A woman with Mars in
the 7th may be attracted to a partner who reflects the qualities of Mars: someone who is
assertive, direct and forceful. She may be looking for someone to make decisions for



her and to tell her what to do.
If there is a number of planets or different signs (as in the case of an intercepted

house) in the 7th, the issue can become very confusing because we are looking for so
many different kinds of attributes in a partner. For example, should a woman have both
Saturn and Uranus in the 7th, she is seeking someone to offer stability and security
(Saturn) and yet at the same time she needs someone who is unpredictable, exciting and
highly individualistic (Uranus). These two sets of qualities hardly live comfortably
together in one person. She may marry Saturn first, become dreadfully restless and
bored, meet someone Uranian and file for a divorce. Or she may remain married to
Saturn and have an affair with Uranus. Or she may marry Uranus first, divorce him on
account of his unstable and erratic character, and then breathing a sigh of relief settle
down safely with Saturn. Or, if she is somewhat more psychologically mature, she can
marry Saturn and find ways which are unthreatening to the relationship to satisfy her
need for Uranus, or even develop it more in herself. Or she can marry a Uranian man
and provide the Saturnian security herself in the partnership.

Seventh house

More than just describing the nature of the partner, signs and planets in the 7th
suggest the conditions of the relationship: the archetypes constellated by the union
itself. Saturn there could indicate a union based on duty and obligation. Mars in the 7th
is prone to ‘love’ at first sight, rushing into marriage, tempestuous battles, passionate
reunions, and then more battles again. Arthur Rimbaud, the French poet shot by his
lover Verlaine, had explosive Pluto and Uranus both in the 7th house. Rex Harrison,
with six marriages to his name, was born with abundant Jupiter there.

As stated earlier, a planet or sign in a house suggests the predisposition to meet that
archetypal principle through the area of life in question. Placements in the 7th are what
we expect to find in close partnerships and therefore indicate those attributes we notice
most in the other person. Invariably, something in our partner’s chart will collude with
planets and signs in our 7th house, and more often than not, the partner’s chart
uncannily reflects our 7th. For instance, a woman who has Mars, Saturn and Pluto in the
7th may very well find a husband who has Mars, Saturn and Pluto in the 1st or



something like an Aries Sun (reflecting her 7th house Mars), a Scorpio Moon
(reflecting her 7th house Pluto), and three planets in Capricorn (reflecting her 7th house
Saturn).

The psychological mechanism of projection must again be mentioned in respect to
the Descendant and 7th house. In Relating, Liz Greene suggests that the Descendant
and the 7th house planets represent qualities which ‘belong to the individual, but are
unconscious’ and which we try to live out ‘through a partner, or through the kinds of
experiences the relationship brings’.2 Let’s explore what she means by this.

The Descendant – the westernmost point in the chart – disappears from view as we
are being born. In this sense, it describes what is hidden in us, what we feel doesn’t
belong to us because we can’t or won’t see it in ourselves. Diametrically opposed to the
Ascendant and 1st house, the Descendant and 7th house reveal qualities in ourselves
which we have the most difficulty ‘owning’, being responsible for, and accepting.
However, as Jung points out, ‘When an inner situation is not made conscious, it
happens outside, as fate.’ If we are unconscious of something in ourselves then ‘the
world must perforce act out the conflict and be torn into opposite halves.’3 In other
words, what we are unaware of in ourselves, we invariably attract to us through others.
Traditionally the Descendant and 7th house are described as those qualities we seek in a
partner; but on a deeper level they represent those qualities hidden in us which we need
to consciously integrate into our awareness to become whole – what Liz Greene calls
‘the inner partner’. If we have suppressed these attributes in ourselves because we find
them disagreeable or unacceptable, then it is not surprising that we won’t like them
when they are mirrored back to us through another person. Hence, the connotation of
the 7th house as the sphere of open enemies.

However, we also tend to inhibit or ‘dis-own’ potentially positive traits as well and
these may be the very attributes which allure or excite us when we meet them in others.
We fall in love with those people who openly exhibit these traits because they make us
feel more complete. We import these qualities into our lives by marrying them. Ideally,
the partner may serve as a kind of role model for these energies, which eventually
permits us to consciously integrate them back into our own nature. All too often,
though, we remain reliant on the other person to supply them. We polarize with the
partner and stay only half a person.

It should be made clear that projection is not something which is purely pathological.
A projected image is a potential locked up within the self. When there is the need for
this image to make itself known, the first step is perceiving it in someone else. Then,
hopefully, we realize that it has something to do with us and we consciously take it
back. For example, a woman with Mars in the 7th may not be in touch with her own
power and assertiveness. Therefore, she looks for those qualities in a man. She finds a
partner with a prominent Mars, one who is dominant and self-centred, and shouts orders
at her. Through him, she has brought Mars into her life. However, when she can no
longer tolerate him that way, it may dawn on her that she has a right to make demands
as well. She begins to fight back, to make a stand for herself, and in this way she
discovers Mars in her own nature.



Once we have, to some degree, reintegrated qualities in the 7th house into our own
identity, we serve to expose those principles to society at large. Therefore, a person with
Mars in the 7th might be someone who rouses other people to action. Someone with
Saturn there could function as a teacher or mentor for others. Many people involved in
the helping or caring professions have a heavy emphasis on the 7th. They require an
almost continual flow of close exchange between themselves and others. It is wiser to
‘siphon off’ a packed 7th house in this way, and relieve a one-to-one partnership of the
full brunt of many planets there.

The ‘lower courts’ also appear under the heading of the 7th. Social mores come into
being to counter-effect the excesses of rampant individuality and to ensure some degree
of fairness and justice in the behaviour of members of society. Should these laws be
transgressed, then an outside force must intervene to redress the balance. How we fare
in courts of this kind is shown by placements in the 7th.

The 7th house, naturally associated with Libra and Venus, is the sphere in which we
learn greater co-operation with others. It poses a dilemma with the 1st house: how much
do I co-operate (7th) versus how much do I assert my own way (1st)? On the one hand,
the danger is giving or blending too much and sacrificing one’s own identity. On the
other, we could demand that others adapt too much to us, and deprive them of their
individuality. The problem was clearly expressed by a Rabbi Hillel: ‘If I am not for
myself, who will be? And if I am only for myself, what am I?’4 The 7th house sets the
task of encountering another person and balancing both ends of the scale.

Notes – Chapter 9
1. Michael Meyer, A Handbook for the Humanistic Astrologer, Anchor Books, New

York, 1974, p. 2.
2. Greene, pp. 137-8.
3. Carl Jung, Aion, Routledge and Kegan Paul, London, 1959, p.71.
4. Rabbi Hillel cited in Yalom, p. 367.



10.

THE EIGHTH HOUSE

If my devils are to leave me, I am afraid my angels will take flight as well.
Rilke 

The 8th house has many labels. Since it is opposite the 2nd house, which is ‘my values’,
it is commonly called ‘the house of other people’s values’. This can be taken quite
literally. Signs and planets in the 8th suggest how we fare financially in marriage,
inheritance or business partnerships. For instance, Jupiter there may marry into money,
receive a good windfall through a legacy, escape lightly from the tax inspector, and
form beneficial business associates. A poorly aspected Saturn in the 8th, on the other
hand, may marry someone who declares bankruptcy the next day, inherit its next-of-
kin’s unpaid debts, be scrupulously investigated by the tax inspector, and choose
disastrous business partners. Nor is it unusual to find people with many planets in the
8th in careers involving other people’s money: bankers, stockbrokers, investment
analysts and accountants.

However, the 8th house is much more than just other people’s money. It describes
‘that which is shared’ and the manner in which we fuse or unite with others. Elaborating
and expanding on what has begun in the 7th, the 8th house is the nitty-gritty of
relationships: what happens when two people – each with his or her own temperament,
resources, value system, needs and biological clock – attempt to merge. A whole
plethora of questions and conflicts are apt to ensue:

I have some money and you have some money. How shall we spend it? How
much shall we try to save each month?
   

or
   
I like sex three times a week and you seem to need it every night. Who wins?
   

or
   
You believe that to spare the rod is to spoil the child, but I insist that no child of
mine is to be hit. Who’s right?
   

or
   
I don’t know how you can be friends with that couple. They really irritate me. I’d



rather we visit my friends tonight. Whose friends do they end up visiting?

The aisle intended to lead to the path of wedded bliss seems to have forked into a raging
battlefield and there is what looks like a funeral procession up ahead.

The 8th house, naturally associated with Pluto and Scorpio, is also labelled ‘the
house of sex, death and regeneration’. In the myth, the maiden Persephone is abducted
into the underworld by Pluto, the god of Death. She marries him there and returns to the
upper world a changed person, no longer a little girl but a woman. Relating deeply with
another person entails a kind of death, the letting go and breaking down of our ego-
boundaries and tightly knit identity. We die as a separate ‘I’ and are reborn as ‘We’.

Eighth house

Like Persephone, through relationship we are plunged into another’s world. In sex
and intimacy, we expose and share parts of ourselves which are normally kept hidden.
Sex can be considered just a release which temporarily makes us feel better; or through
the sexual act, we may experience a form of self-transcendence, a union with another
self. In the heights of ecstasy, we forget and abandon ourselves to merge with another.
The Elizabethans referred to the orgasm as ‘the little death’. Much about our sexual
nature is shown by placements in the 8th.

Relationships are the catalysts for change. The 8th house cleanses and regenerates
through drawing to the surface (usually via a present relationship) unresolved issues
from previous relationships, especially early bonding problems with mother and father.
The first relationship in our life, that with the mother or mother-substitute, is the most
highly charged. This is not surprising as our survival depends on her. We are all born
into this world potential victims: unless there is the caring love and protection of
someone bigger and more adept than us, our chances of survival are very slim. The loss
of a mother’s love does not simply mean the loss of a person close to us: it could mean
abandonment and death. Many of us continue to project these same infantile concerns



onto later relationships. The fear that our partner doesn’t love us anymore or is possibly
betraying us will trigger or reawaken the primal fears of the loss of the original love-
object. It then feels as if our very survival depends on the preservation of the present
relationship. Pleas and outcries such as ‘If you leave me, I’ll die’ and ‘I can’t live
without you’ reveal the charged undercurrents from early bonding difficulties
infiltrating the reality of the current situation. True, as children we might have died if
Mother left, but more likely than not, as adults we are quite capable of managing our
own survival needs. Through exposing these unresolved and hidden fears, the trials and
tribulations in the 8th house help us to shed attitudes which are obsolete and
cumbersome. Not every partner is our mother.

In addition to our irrational fears, a good proportion of the anger and outrage we
sometimes feel and unleash on our partner can be ‘tracked back’ to infancy and
childhood. Children are not all sweetness, ‘goo’ and light. The work of the psychologist
Melanie Klein has depicted another side to the baby’s nature. Because of its extreme
helplessness, the small child experiences enormous frustration when his or her needs
are not being understood and met. Even the most adept mother cannot always interpret
precisely what a screaming baby wants, and invariably the child’s frustration erupts into
violent hostility. Since early experiences leave such a deep impression, all of us have a
‘raging infant’ buried inside. A present partner thwarts us in some way and the
screaming child may be awakened yet again.

Like Persephone’s abduction into the underworld, in very intense relationships we
descend into the depths of our being to discover our primordial instinctual inheritance:
the envy, greed, jealousy, rage, seething passions, the need for power and control as
well as the destructive fantasies which may lurk beneath the most genteel façade. It is
only through recognizing and accepting ‘the beast’ in us that it can be transformed. We
cannot change anything we don’t know is there. We cannot transform something we
condemn. The darker side of our nature must be brought to light before we can be
cleansed, regenerated or born again.

Previously, in denying this darker side we may have stifled a vast reservoir of
psychic energy. However, acknowledging our vindictiveness, cruelty, or rage does not
necessarily mean catharting or ‘acting out’ these emotions indiscriminately. Such
behaviour expends the energy and possibly destroys much more than we wish. Rather,
the key lies in ‘owning’ and yet containing these explosive feelings. Through
reconnecting to the fount of energy expressing itself as outraged instincts and holding
on to it inside us, we eventually release this energy from the form in which it has been
trapped. Thus diverted, it can be consciously integrated back into the psyche more
productively or  channelled into constructive outlets. Stewing in the juices of primal
emotion until they are ready to shift is not very pleasant, but who has ever said that the
8th house is easy?

The 8th house yields the opportunity to re-examine the connection between present
relationship issues and those problems encountered with the mother and father early in
life. Based on our perception of the environment as children, we form opinions about
what kind of person we are and what life ‘out there’ is like for us. These beliefs or



‘scripts’ continue to operate, often unconsciously, far into adulthood. The little girl who
believed that ‘father was a cad’ grows into the woman with a deeply ingrained sense
that ‘all men are cads’. Due to the laws of psychic determinism, we have a mysterious
and uncanny ability to attract into our lives the very people and situations which support
these early assumptions. If not, we will probably perceive them that way in any case.
The aim of a complex is to prove itself true.

The ruins and rubble from childhood are excavated in the 8th house. Our more
problematic and deeper existential life-statements are uncovered ‘alive and kicking’ in
present relationship crises. With the added maturity and wisdom that years of living
bestow on us, we can ‘clean up’ some of the residue from the past, which has coloured
and obscured our perspective on life, ourselves and others. The gift of the 8th house is
greater self-knowledge and self-mastery, freeing us to continue our journey renewed,
less encumbered by unnecessary baggage.

Should we fail at attempts at merging and ‘working through’ the volatile issues
which the 8th house evokes, then we can refer to placements here to gain a sense of
what the divorce proceedings might be like. Difficult planetary aspects to the 8th warn
of traumatic separations and ‘messy’ divorce settlements. The two ‘raging infants’ and
their respective lawyers are left to carry out the battle in the courtroom.

All levels of shared experience are described by the 8th house. In addition to the
realm of joint finance and the merging of two individuals into one, this house has a
broader ecological slant. We all have to share our planet and its resources. The high-
powered entrepreneur who indiscriminately levels forests for his own profit is
disregarding the inhabitants of the forest, as well as depriving a fellow human being of
an area of natural beauty and inspiration. A person’s sensitivity to these issues will be
mirrored by placements in the 8th.

The house also denotes our relationship to what esoteric philosophers call ‘the astral
plane’. A strong emotion, though not necessarily visible, will nonetheless pervade the
atmosphere around us. The astral plane is that level of existence where seemingly
intangible but powerful emotions and feelings collect and circulate. The more rationally
minded may doubt the credibility of something which cannot be seen or measured. And
yet, almost all of us have had the experience of entering one person’s home and feeling
immediately ‘hit’ by something unpleasant, while walking into another person’s house
and feeling uplifted and spirited. Planets and signs in the 8th show the particular kinds
of energies ‘hovering’ in the astral realm to which we are most sensitive. Someone with
Mars in the 8th will more easily ‘pick up on’ anger in the atmosphere than someone
with Venus there who quickly senses when ‘love is in the air’. In this capacity, the
watery 8th house is akin to the other water houses, the 4th and the 12th. Experiences of
the psychic or occult sphere are shown in the 8th, as well as the degree of interest or
fascination we have for that which is hidden, mysterious or underlying the surface level
of existence.

Death, as shown by placements in the 8th, can be taken literally to mean the manner
or extenuating circumstances of our physical death. Saturn there may be reluctant to
die, fearful of what lies beyond corporeal existence. Neptune may die from drugs,



alcohol poisoning or drowning, or gradually disengage itself in a coma. Uranus may
end it all rather suddenly.

However, in the span of one lifetime, we experience many different psychological
deaths. If we have been deriving our identity from a particular relationship and it should
finish, then this is a kind of death of who we have been. Likewise, if we have gained
our sense of vitality or meaning in life from a certain profession and then are made
redundant, we also die as we knew ourselves. Childhood dies and adolescence is born.
Adolescence passes and we die into adulthood. A birth requires a death; and a death
requires a birth. Signs and planets in the 8th indicate the manner in which we meet such
phase transitions. Individuals with a strong 8th house slant often experience their lives
as a book containing many different chapters, or a long play with distinct changes of
scene. These endings and new beginnings may be thrust on us or we might assume a
more active role in tearing down old structures to make room for something else.

In mythology, the gods create the world, decide they don’t like it, destroy what they
have built, and create another. Death is an ongoing process in nature. There is also the
image of the dying and reviving god, who is destroyed in one form but then reappears
again transformed. Christ is crucified and then resurrected. Dionysus is dismembered,
but Athene, the goddess of Wisdom, rescues his heart and he is born again. Like the
Phoenix, we may temporarily be reduced to ashes, but we can rise once more, renewed.
Form can be destroyed, but essence remains to flourish again in some other form. The
German poet Goethe wrote, ‘So long as you do not die and rise again, you are a stranger
to the dark earth.’ On some deep level, any survivor of the 8th house’s traumas and
tensions knows this.



11.

THE NINTH HOUSE 

Mankind is poised midway between the gods and the beasts.
Plotinus

The 8th house invariably implies some degree of pain, crises and suffering. Hopefully,
in surviving these difficult times, we emerge renewed, cleansed, and wiser about
ourselves and life in general. Having descended into the depths and somehow managed
to find our way up again, an overview is gained which allows us to conceive of life as a
journey and process of unfoldment. The fiery 9th house, naturally associated with
Jupiter and Sagittarius, follows upon the troubled waters of the 8th and offers a broader
perspective on all that has occurred up to now. Enough experience has been gathered to
attempt formulating some conclusions about the meaning and purpose of our sojourn.

The 9th is the area of the chart most directly concerned with philosophy and religion
– questions about the ‘whys and wherefores’ of existence. It is here that we seek the
Truth, endeavouring to fathom the underlying patterns and basic laws which govern
life. In one sense, the suffering incurred in the 8th compels us in this direction because
pain is more easily borne if we can envision some purpose for having to endure it. In
addition, if suffering is in any way linked with a failure to live in accordance to the laws
or truths of existence, then discovering and adhering to these guidelines might decrease
the amount of pain we need incur.

Human beings seem to require meaning. We apparently need absolutes, firm ideals
towards which we can aspire, and precepts which serve to steer our lives. Without
meaning, there is often the feeling that we have nothing to live for, nothing to hope for,
no reason to struggle for anything, and no direction in life. Many psychologists believe
that much of modern-day neurosis is related to a lack of meaning or purpose in life.
Regardless of whether it is true or not, we are comforted by the belief that there is
something greater ‘out there’: that a coherent pattern exists and that each of us has some
particular role to play in that design. Whether it is ultimately up to us to create our own
meaning in life or whether it is our task to discover God’s plan and intention, the search
for guidelines, goals and a sense of purpose forms the crux of the 9th house.

The 9th house signifies what is known as ‘the higher mind’ – that part of the mind
linked to the faculty of abstraction and the intuitive process – as compared to the
concrete mind shown by the 3rd house. Mercury, the natural ruler of the 3rd and 6th
houses, is a fact-gatherer; while Jupiter, the natural ruler of the 9th, denotes the symbol-
making capacity of the psyche, the tendency to imbue a particular event or happening
with meaning or significance. Facts are collected in the 3rd, but in the 9th conclusions
are drawn from them: isolated facts are organized within the framework of a larger



scheme of things or seen as the inevitable offspring of higher organizing principles.
While the 3rd and 6th houses are analogous to the analytical and compartmentalizing

left brain, the processes associated with the 9th house (and the 12th) correlate to the
activity of the right brain. The right brain can identify a shape which is suggested by
only a few lines. The points are mentally woven together into a pattern. Synthetic and
holistic, the right brain thinks in images, sees wholes, and detects patterns. As Marilyn
Ferguson writes, ‘the left [brain] takes snapshots, the right watches movies.’1

Ninth house

The 9th house often believes that events have a message concealed in them. Jupiter
or Venus in the 9th, for instance, may give the feeling that everything that happens is
ultimately positive and to one’s advantage, as if there were a benign Higher Intelligence
at work guiding our unfoldment. Saturn or Capricorn in the 9th could have more
difficulty perceiving meaning in an event, or else interpret the meaning in a negative
light. Albert Camus, the French existentialist philosopher and writer, had Saturn in
Gemini in this house: he believed that events have no higher or absolute meaning other
than that which human beings attribute to them.

Placements in the 9th describe something about the style with which we pursue
religious and philosophical issues, as well as suggesting the kind of God we worship or
the nature of the philosophy in life we formulate. For example, Mercury or Gemini
there may lead one to try and grasp God intellectually, while Neptune or Pisces
predisposes one to embrace the deity through heartfelt devotion, to surrender the self.
Mars suggests a dogmatic and fanatical approach to religious pursuits compared to the
greater tolerance and flexibility exhibited by Venus in these matters. The God-image is
also shown by planets and signs here. Saturn or Capricorn might conceive of a harsh,
punishing, critical and paternalistic God, who must be obeyed at all costs. Neptune or
Pisces in the 9th, on the other hand, envisions a compassionate and loving God, inclined
to leniency and forgiveness.



The 3rd house rules the immediate environment and that which is discovered by
exploring what is at hand. The 9th describes the perspective we gain standing back and
viewing life at a distance. In this way, the 9th is linked to travels and long journeys.
Travelling can be taken literally to mean journeys to other lands and cultures, or it can
be understood more symbolically as journeys of the mind or spirit – the broadened
horizons gained from extensive reading or the insights gained through meditation and
cosmic reflection. Understood more literally, through travelling and mixing with people
reared on traditions different from our own, our outlook on life is expanded. The taste
and style of some cultures may appeal to us more than others, but nonetheless, other
facets of the myriad possibilities of life are glimpsed and compared with our own.
Travel enables us to view the world from a different perspective. I may be involved in a
complicated relationship in London about which I feel confused and uncertain; yet,
when I travel to San Francisco and reflect on this relationship, somehow the added
distance of 6,000 miles helps me to understand it more clearly than when the
relationship is right in front of me. The epitome of a 9th house experience might be the
view of the world afforded the astronaut re-entering the Earth’s atmosphere. There, at a
glance, is the whole picture – our planet seen as an entity in relation to limitless space.
One’s ordinary, mundane and everyday concerns assume a different proportion after
such an experience. John Glenn, the first American to orbit the Earth, had both Neptune
and Jupiter in his 9th house.

Placements in the 9th designate the archetypal principles we encounter on our
travels, and may even reveal something about the nature of the culture or cultures to
which we are drawn. For instance, Saturn there may experience difficulties or delays on
journeys, or travel more specifically for a practical purpose, such as work or study.
Henry Kissinger, the American foreign ambassador under Nixon, has Capricorn on the
cusp of the 9th, and Saturn, its ruler, in Libra, the sign of diplomacy. If Pluto or Scorpio
is in the 9th, we may attract experiences in another country which profoundly transform
us, or we may be drawn to a country with Pluto or Scorpio strong in its national chart.
Admiral Richard Byrd, the first man to fly to the North Pole, had innovative Uranus in
this house.

Returning much closer to home, 9th house placements indicate relationships with
one’s in-laws. Just as the third house from the Ascendant describes our own relatives,
the third house from the Descendant (the 9th) describes the partner’s relatives. Whether
such relationships are cordial or stormy will be shown here. An in-law might reflect a
planet in the 9th house or receive the projection of that principle. Some people with
Jupiter in the 9th see the universe in a grain of sand, while others might perceive it in
their mother-in-law.

Journeys of the mind are described in the 9th, which is also known as the house of
higher education. The chosen field of study or the nature of the college or university
experience in general is shown by placements here. For example, Neptune in the 9th
may concentrate on a degree in art or music. However, that same Neptune could
indicate confusion and vacillation in the choice of a course of study or disappointment
and disillusionment during the stay at university. Uranus may rebel against traditional



systems of higher education, or pursue a degree in some unusual or newly rising field,
or be the first person to secure a place at Oxford at the age of seven.

The 1st house is ‘I am’ while the opposite house, the 7th, is ‘We are’. The 2nd is ‘I
have’ and its opposite, the 8th, is ‘We have’. Correspondingly, the 3rd is ‘I think’ and
the 9th is ‘We think’. The 9th describes thought structures which are codified on a
collective level. These include not only the religious, philosophical and educational
systems as already discussed, but also legal systems and the body of law. The 7th house
is the lower courts, but the 9th represents the higher courts – the supreme law of the
land which governs the actions of the individual within the broadest social context. In
the 3rd, we learn about ourselves in relation to those in our immediate environment, but
in the 9th a sense of our relationship to the collective as a whole is kindled. The 9th is
also associated with the publishing profession, in which ideas are disseminated on a
large scale.

Traditionally, planets in the 10th are associated with career and profession. The
research by M. and F. Gauquelin, however, has established a correlation between certain
planetary placements in the 9th and people who have achieved success in fields related
to the nature of these planets. A discussion of these findings is found on page 95.

In the 3rd house, we examine that which is immediate and directly in front of us; in
the 9th, we glimpse that which is not only farther away but also ‘up and coming’.
Strong placements in this house confer an unusual degree of intuition and foresight –
the ability to sense the direction in which someone or something is heading. The 9th
house ‘tunes in’ to the pulse of a situation, quickly registering trends and currents in the
atmosphere. Jules Verne, the science fiction writer with a remarkable gift for
anticipating future discoveries, was born with Uranus in the 9th house. On one level,
the 9th gives the prophet and visionary, while on another it denotes the public relations
person, or the promoter intent on opening new vistas for others. Energies in the 9th can
be expressed through the travel agent picking out ‘just the right holiday for you’; the
entrepreneur confiding to you the latest sure-fire investment; the proponent of the most
recent psychotechnology to hit town which promises instant enlightenment in one
weekend; the coach giving his team a pep-talk before the big game; the tipster advising
on the winning horse; or the artistic, literary or theatrical agent discovering the next big
new talent.

In the 8th, we dug into the past and dredged up the remnants of our primordial and
instinctual nature. In the 9th, we look to the future and what is yet to unfold. Depending
on the planets and signs there and aspects to these, we may see a future full of hope and
new promise or one in which the bogeyman lurks around the corner just waiting for us
to be foolish enough to pass that way. In either case, it might be useful to reflect on
something which St Catherine once observed, namely that ‘all the way to heaven is
heaven.’2

Notes – Chapter 11
1. Ferguson, p. 82.
2. St Catherine cited in Ferguson, p. 108.



12.

THE MIDHEAVEN AND THE TENTH HOUSE

Never measure the height of a mountain, until you have reached the top. Then you
will see how low it was.

Dag Hammarskjöld

What the 9th house envisions, the 10th house brings to earth. In Quadrant systems of
house-division, the Midheaven – the degree of the ecliptic which reaches its highest
point at the meridian of any place – marks the cusp of the 10th house. The Midheaven is
the most elevated point in the chart, and symbolically speaking, placements here ‘stand
out’ above all others in the horoscope. The qualities of any sign or planet in this
position correspond to what in us is most visible and accessible to others, what ‘stands
out’ in us. Whereas the IC and 4th house (the opposite house) represent what we are
like privately and how we behave at home behind closed doors, the MC and 10th house
(naturally associated with Saturn and Capricorn) indicate the way we behave publicly,
the image we wish to present to the world – the kinds of clothes we don when we ‘step
out’. Liz Greene calls the MC and 10th house our ‘social shorthand’ – how we would
most like to be seen by others and how we describe ourselves to them.

In keeping with the elevated position of the Midheaven, placements in this area of
the chart suggest those qualities for which we want to be admired, lauded, looked up to
and respected. It is through the signs and planets here that we hope to attain
achievement, honour and recognition. Placements in the 10th denote what we would
most like to be remembered as having contributed to the world. This is the house of
ambition, behind which lurks the pressing urge and compulsion to be esteemed and
acknowledged. The ancient Greeks believed that if you performed a truly noble or
heroic deed, you were rewarded by being made a constellation in the heavens for all to
see for all eternity. Besides the recognition it earns us, being famous means we live in
people’s minds forever. The isolated ego, so fearful of its own finiteness, finds this idea
very reassuring.

The nature of our contribution to society and our status and place in the world are
shown by the sign on the Midheaven, planets in the 10th house, and as the Gauquelin
studies suggest (see page 95) any planets on the 9th house side of the MC. The planet
ruling the sign on the Midheaven and its placement by sign, house and aspect also sheds
light on career and vocation. However, other areas of the chart also have considerable
bearing on the issue of profession (such as the 6th house, 2nd house, aspects to the Sun,
etc.), and the birth map as a whole must be carefully assessed to advise anyone wisely
in this respect.

In some cases, the signs and planets in the 10th and on the 9th house side of the



Midheaven may literally describe the nature of the individual’s career. For instance,
Saturn there could indicate a teacher, judge or scientist; Jupiter an actor, philosopher or
travel agent; and the Moon a professional childminder or innkeeper. Franz Schubert, the
Austrian composer, had musical Pisces on the Midheaven, and Neptune, its ruler, in the
5th, the house of creative expression.

Tenth house

However, it is safer to assume that the positions near the MC and in the 10th suggest
not so much the actual profession but rather the approach a person has to the career –
the manner in which the work is handled or packaged. The judge with Saturn in the
10th will more likely follow the letter of the law than the judge with Uranus there,
whose readings would be more individualistic, unconventional, and shocking to others.

The kinds of energies we exhibit or encounter in the pursuit of a vocation are also
suggested by placements in the 10th. Saturn or Capricorn there may work long and
patiently to reach the top; Mars or Aries is aggressive and impatient in this sphere of
life; while Neptune or Pisces may be vague or confused as to its role in society.

The 10th house could also describe what we represent or symbolize to others. Mars
might be seen as a bully or the pinnacle of courage and strength; Neptune as a saint or
martyr, champion of the downtrodden, or the victim himself; and Venus could
symbolize the epitome of style, taste or beauty.

If the 4th house is associated with the father, then the 10th house is assigned to the
mother. In the beginning of life, she is the whole world to us. Early bonding patterns
established with her will be reflected later in life in how we relate to the external world
in general. In other words, the nature of what passes between mother and child (as
shown by the MC and placements in the 10th) resurfaces at a later stage of development
as our way of connecting with society and the world ‘out there’ as a whole. If we found
mother threatening and potentially destructive (such as a difficultly aspected Pluto in
the 10th might suggest) then later on the world will seem an unsafe place and we will



attempt to defend ourselves accordingly. If mother was experienced as supportive and
helpful (well-aspected placements in the 10th), we carry an expectation that the world
will treat us similarly – what Erik Erikson calls basic trust.

If we associate the 10th house with both mother (the shaping parent) and career, then
the choice of vocation may somehow be influenced by our experience of her. For
instance, if Mars is in the 10th the mother may have been experienced as pushy and
assertive. The child, therefore, harbours resentment and anger against her, and grows up
with the desire to actualize a position of power and autonomy in the world so he or she
won’t be ‘pushed around’ in the same way as in early life. Fighting with the mother
creates a pattern of fighting with the world.

Sometimes it is the desire to win love from the mother (thereby ensuring our
survival) which underlies our choice of profession. For example, if Mercury is in the
10th house, the mother may have been experienced as expressive and intelligent. The
child then feels that this is what Mother values and appreciates, and so strives to gain
her love and support by developing such traits. An expectation is established that
excelling in this way earns recognition, and accordingly, later in life, a career is sought
which brings Mercurial qualities to the fore.

In some cases, it may be competition with the mother which nudges us in the
direction of a certain career. If Venus is in the 10th, the mother may have been seen as
glamorous and beautiful. In a sense, Venus has been projected onto the mother. In order
to reclaim his or her own Venusian qualities, the child may later seek a profession in
which he or she can be admired as beautiful, elegant or tasteful.

At its most simple, the 10th house describes those qualities of the mother (or parent
in question) which are in us as well, whether we like it or not. The issue is complicated,
however, by the possibility that placements in the 10th often denote aspects of the
mother’s personality which were ‘unlived’ – attributes and traits which the mother did
not consciously express or represent in the child’s growing-up years. Planets and signs
in this house may describe the way the mother would have liked to have been if only
she had allowed herself the opportunity to do so. A child who is acutely sensitive to the
mother’s psyche and undercurrents in the home atmosphere will be receptive not only to
what she manifests outwardly but also to what she is denying or suppressing. The child
may be swayed to ‘live out’ the mother’s shadow side, as if mother is made more whole
or redeemed in this way. The mother of a child with Uranus in the 10th, for instance,
may have appeared extremely conventional, strait-laced and restrained on the outside,
while under the surface lurked explosive feelings and the desire for space, freedom and
‘busting loose’. In some way this unvented Uranian side is communicated to the child,
who grows up with a compulsion to enact just those qualities to which the mother has
not allowed expression.

The placement of many planets in the 10th usually suggests someone who is
ambitious and desirous of recognition, status and prestige. Men are normally given
more permission to pursue these needs than women. It may be easier for a woman with
a strong 10th house to seek a partner who is powerful or famous and thereby import a
position in the world in that way. She may even be the one who pushes him on to fame



and prestige. Ultimately, however, she may feel resentful that it is her husband receiving
the acclaim rather than herself, and consciously or unconsciously devise ways of
punishing him for this. Likewise, either or both parents with a strong 10th house may
displace unfulfilled achievement and recognition needs onto a child. Some children may
co-operate with the projection, while others may rebel against it, often becoming the
exact opposite of what the parent(s) hoped.

The 10th house extends beyond the mother or shaping parent to designate our
relationship with authority figures in general. Early anger or hurt at being suppressed or
mistreated by a parent will often distort the reality of later interactions with other
symbols of power. The revolutionary may have a true and just cause, but the style,
manner or intensity in which he or she espouses convictions may evince, from a
reductionist point of view, the contamination of earlier issues stemming from the
regime of the parents. This is not to belittle or judge those who object to that which is
unfair in society, but they are well-advised to consider their 10th house and its
psychological implications. Throwing a punch at one’s boss or eggs at the prime
minister is a way of venting the ‘angry child’ in us but may not be the most effective
way to promote even the most needed changes.

Presiding over the top of the chart, the 10th house signifies the fulfilment of the
individual personality through the personal satisfaction gained in using our abilities and
talents to serve and influence society. Some may even earn applause and public
recognition of their great value and worth.

A long way has been travelled from the 1st house to the 10th. In the 1st, we were not
even conscious of ourselves as separate entities, not even aware of our own individual
existence. By the time the 10th is reached, however, we have developed and
‘incarnated’ sufficiently not only to have a more solid and concrete sense of who we
are, but also to be held in esteem for it.



13.

THE ELEVENTH HOUSE

In the heaven of Indra, there is said to be a network of pearls, so arranged, that if
you look at one you see all the others reflected in it.

A Hindu Sutra

From being oblivious of being anybody, to winning recognition as a somebody: this has
been the route from the 1st house to the 10th house. But now that the ego has been
firmly established and duly acknowledged, what happens next?
At its deepest level, the 11th house (associated with the sign of Aquarius and co-ruled
by Saturn and Uranus) represents the attempt to go beyond our ego-identity and become
something greater than what we already are. The main way of achieving this is to
identify with something larger than the self – such as a circle of friends, a group, a
belief system or an ideology.

According to General Systems Theory, nothing can be understood in isolation but
must be comprehended as part of a system. The components of the system and their
attributes are viewed as functions of the total system. The behaviour and expression of
each variable influences and is influenced by all the others. In what is known as a ‘high
synergy’ society, the goals of the individual are in harmony with the needs of the
system as a whole. In a ‘low synergy’ system, the individuals, in fulfilling their own
needs, do not necessarily act for the good of the whole.1 How we function as part of a
system is shown by the 11th house.

In keeping with its dual rulership, the concept of group consciousness implied by the
11th can be understood in two distinct ways. Saturn seeks greater security and a more
solid sense of identity through belonging to a group – what psychologists label
‘belonging-identification’. Being a member of a particular group, whether it is a social,
national, political or religious group, enhances the sense of who we are and gives a
feeling of safety in numbers. To some extent, this is exploitive, since the rest of the
world is used in the service of augmenting or bolstering the identity. Evidence of this is
most clearly seen in those who are overly concerned with having the ‘right’ friends,
being noticed in the ‘right’ places, and aligning the self with the ‘right’ beliefs.2 The
most negative face of this Saturn undercurrent of the 11th manifests when a group is
threatened by another group – such as blacks moving into a white area, or Jungians
moving into a predominantly Freudian neighbourhood.

The Uranian side of the 11th house represents the kind of group consciousness which
spiritual teachers, mystics and visionaries from all different cultures and times have
repeatedly espoused. Instead of the typical ‘me-in-here’ versus ‘you-out-there’
paradigm or self-model, they speak of the individual’s unity with all of life, that we are



part of a greater whole, interconnected with the rest of creation. Mirroring the mystical
perception of the unity of all life, recent scientific breakthroughs demonstrate the web
of relationship underlying everything in the universe. For instance, David Bohm, a
British physicist, theorizes that the universe must be understood as ‘a single undivided
whole in which separate and independent parts have no fundamental status.’3 A
thorough analysis of the parallels between modern physics and Eastern mysticism is
found in The Tao of Physics by Fritjof Capra, an eminent researcher in high-energy
physics. Some of the parallels he recounts are so striking that it is almost impossible to
determine whether certain statements about the nature of life have been made by
modern scientists or by Eastern mystics.4

Eleventh house

One recent theory proposed by a British plant physiologist, Rupert Sheldrake, is
particularly relevant to the 11th house. Sheldrake suggests the possibility of invisible
organizing fields which regulate the life of a system. In 1920, William McDougall of
Harvard University was studying how quickly rats learned to escape from a maze filled
with water; meanwhile, other researchers in Scotland and Australia who were repeating
these experiments found that their first generation of rats, bred from a different strain to
the McDougall rats, performed the task with the same degree of ability as McDougall’s
last generation. The skill was in some way ‘picked up on’ by other rats even though
they were in another part of the world. Such occurrences have led Sheldrake to theorize
that if one member of a biological species learns a new behaviour, the invisible
organizing field (morphogenetic field) for that species changes. The rats who mastered
the task made it possible for other rats, many miles away, to do the same.5 On some
deep level, we are all linked together. Sheldrake’s theory is nicely summed up in a
remark once made by the Jesuit priest Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, born with Mercury,
Jupiter and Saturn in the 11th: ‘A truth once seen, even by a single mind, always ends



by imposing itself on the totality of human consciousness.’6

In The Aquarian Conspiracy, Marilyn Ferguson writes, ‘You cannot understand a
cell, a rat, a brain structure, a family or a culture if you isolate it from its context.’7

Similarly, Carl Rogers, one of the founders of humanistic psychology, once remarked
that the deeper the individual delves into his or her own identity the more he or she
discovers the whole human race. Our identity has a much wider membership than the
‘skin-encapsulated ego’ is capable of admitting. In this light, the development of group
consciousness as seen in the 11th house is not solely for the purpose of aggrandizing or
bolstering the ego-identity. Rather, the awareness of being part of something larger
enables us to transcend the limits and boundaries of individual separateness and
experience ourselves as a cell in the larger body of humanity. Out of this realization
grows a sense of brotherhood and sisterhood with the co-inhabitants of the planet far
beyond the obligatory ties of family, nation or church.

Syntropy – the tendency of life-energy to move towards greater association,
communication, co-operation and awareness – is the main principle upon which the
11th house operates. Having recognized ourselves as separate and distinct individuals
there is the call to reconnect with everything from which we have previously
differentiated ourselves. Just as matter organized itself into living cells, and living cells
gathered together into multi-cellular organisms, it may be that at some stage human
beings will integrate themselves into some form of global super-organism. Even on a
Saturnian level, the interdependence and interconnectivity of life on the planet is
becoming increasingly obvious. Communications technology has dramatically
enhanced the speed of global interaction and Marshall McLuhan’s concept of the world
as a ‘global village’ is near to being an actuality. Multinational corporations and
conglomerates link the economies of the world inextricably together. The collapse of
the monetary system of one country would have a disastrous rippling effect on a host of
others. Isolationism and nationalism are no longer practically viable. On another level,
small groups, networks, movements and support systems are proliferating all over the
world, gathering people together to promote common causes. In short, much in the
same way that our own body changes and develops, the larger body of humanity is also
growing and evolving. The way in which we might participate in and serve the
evolution and progress of this collective Self is shown by placements in the 11th house.

In the 5th house, our energy is used to distinguish ourselves from others, and to
augment the sense of our own individual worth and specialness; in the 11th, our energy
can be invested in promoting and fulfilling the identity, purpose and cause of any group
to which we belong – whether this is understood to be the whole human race or a
particular segment of it. In the 5th, we do what we want to do for our own sake. In the
11th, we may choose to relinquish or compromise some of our precious personal urges,
inclinations and idiosyncrasies for the sake of adhering to what the group decides is
best.

Social consciousness is a keynote of the 11th. A society (10th house) is structured on
certain laws and principles (9th house). Laws and society easily become both
crystallized and turgid, and invariably certain elements of society are favoured by the



system while others are oppressed. Groups which feel neglected or betrayed by the
existing laws can find a voice through the kinds of reforms associated with the 11th
house. Often, those with strong placements here work through humanitarian or political
groups to implement needed social changes. However, it is just as common to find
others with an 11th house emphasis jockeying back and forth from one social
engagement to the next – Ascot this week, Centre Court at Wimbledon the next, and
then a day at Henley before going off to the opera at Glyndebourne.

In some cases, placements in the 11th may signify the sorts of groups towards which
we gravitate. For instance, Neptune could be interested in music societies, spiritualist or
psychic groups; Uranus with astrology groups; and Mars with the local rugby club.
However, rather than just describing the type of group, it is more likely that signs and
planets in the 11th symbolize our style of behaving and interacting in group situations.
The Sun or Leo there may have to be the leader, deriving a good proportion of its worth
and identity from group involvement. Mercury or Gemini in this house might appear as
the secretary of the group or as one of its most clever spokespeople. Someone has to
make the tea, and the Moon or Cancer there may be happy to provide not only these
services but its home as a meeting place as well. Furthermore, the 11th house gives a
sense of how comfortable we feel in group situations. Venus or Libra may blend in
easily and make many new friends through joining a group. Saturn or Capricorn is more
likely to hold back in the group, and feel awkward or lumpish mixing with the others.
Oscar Wilde, who rose to the heights of success in London’s artistic and social circles,
had the Moon in Leo in the 11th. Paul Joseph Goebbels, the official propagandist of the
Nazi party who controlled public communications and the media, had Pluto conjunct
Neptune in Gemini in this house.

Friendship clearly fits into the 11th house ideal of becoming greater than what we
already are. People are linked together through friendship, personal boundaries are
expanded, and both the needs and resources of others become interwoven with our own.
We introduce our friends to new ideas and interests and, likewise, we are broadened by
what they have to share.

Planets and signs in the 11th often describe the kinds of friends to whom we
gravitate. For example, a man with Mars in this house may be attracted to those people
who exhibit obvious Martian qualities, such as dynamism, drive and directness.
However, placements in the 11th may also show those qualities in ourselves which we
‘dis-own’, project outwardly and meet externally through friends. If the man with Mars
in the 11th has not developed his own ‘Mars’ side, and lacks that certain ‘get up and
go’, his friends will then provide that energy for him – they stimulate and push him into
action. He may even possess an uncanny ability to evoke such qualities in his close
associates, who in most other situations and with other people might be normally more
placid and withdrawn.

The 11th house also suggests the way in which we make friends. Mars could rush
impulsively into friendship, while Saturn is more awkward, shy or cautious in this
respect. How we behave and what energies we awaken in friendship is also shown by
placements here. Venus may make friends easily but prefers to keep things light



(although she may expect friends to ‘live up to’ rather high ideals). Pluto suggests
intense and complicated associations which significantly transform us or in which
issues of betrayal, intrigue and treachery come into play.

In the 11th house, there is the desire to transcend or move beyond existing images
and models of ourselves. We yearn for a more ideal self or a more utopian society.
Therefore, this area of the chart has been labelled the house of hopes, goals, wishes and
objectives. The desire to become something greater than we are must be accompanied
by the capacity to envision new and different possibilities. More than any other species,
the large human brain and evolved cerebral cortex endow human beings with the
capacity to imagine a wide range of alternatives, choices and outcomes. The manner in
which we envision possibilities and proceed toward realizing these hopes and wishes is
shown by placements in the 11th. For instance, Saturn there may have difficulty in
forming positive images of the future or may encounter blocks, delays or obstructions
on the way to finally grounding its goals and objectives. Mars sets a goal and rushes
after it, while Neptune may be confused about what it really wants or merely fantasizes
and daydreams about unrealistic aims. In this context, it is helpful to remember that the
more clearly we can imagine a possibility, the closer we bring it to actualization.
Encouraging positive visions of the future aids the process of moving in a more positive
direction.

Evolution pushes towards greater and greater levels of complexity, organization and
connectivity. In the first air house (the 3rd) we gain the ability through language to
distinguish subject from object. Our own mind is developed as we relate to others in the
immediate environment. In the second air house (the 7th) we grow through the close
encounter of our own awareness with another person’s awareness. Subject and object,
differentiated in the 3rd, meet face to face in the 7th. In the last air house (the 11th) our
individual minds are connected not just to the minds of those close to us but to all other
minds. Eleventh house planets sensitize a person to the ideas and thoughts circulating
on the level of the group-mind. It is not such an unusual phenomenon for somebody in
San Francisco, somebody in London, and another person in Japan to ‘flash’ on the same
bright new idea independently of one another within a relatively close span of time. In
the 11th, we discover our relatedness not just to our family, friends, country or loved
ones, but to the whole human race.

Notes – Chapter 13
1. Russell, p. 13.
2. Russell, pp. 106-7.
3. Russell, p. 127.
4. Capra, p. 17.
5. Russell, pp. 174-5.
6. Pierre Teilhard de Chardin cited in Ferguson, p. 52.
7. Russell, p. 82.



14.

THE TWELFTH HOUSE

If the doors of perception were cleansed, everything would appear to man as it is,
infinite.

William Blake

Commencing with the 1st house, growth has entailed distinguishing ourselves from the
unbounded and universal matrix of life out of which we first emerged. However, as we
have seen in the 11th, the distinction between ourselves and others is challenged by the
understanding that each part of a system is related and interconnected with the other
parts. Mystics and scientists alike tell us that we are not so separate after all. Who we
are is influenced by others, and others are influenced by who we are. Our minds are
linked and directly affected by one another. The notion that we exist as an isolated
entity is quickly losing ground to a more collective or broader sense of self. In the 12th
house, the twin processes of the dissolution of the individual ego and the merging with
something greater than the self is felt and experienced, not via the mind or intellect as in
the 11th, but with our heart and soul. Or as Christopher Fry puts it, ‘The human heart
can go to the lengths of God.’

The poet Walter de la Mare writes that ‘our dreams are tales told in a dim Eden.’ On
its most underlying level, the 12th house, naturally associated with watery Pisces and
the planet Neptune, represents the urge for dissolution which exists in each of us – the
yearning to return to the undifferentiated waters of the womb, to the original state of
unity. Freud, Jung, Piaget, Klein and a host of other modern psychologists agree that the
infant’s first structure of consciousness is pre-subject/object, ignorant of boundaries,
space and time. Early memories cut the most deeply. On some deep level, every
individual intuits that his or her innermost nature is unbounded, infinite and eternal. The
rediscovery of this wholeness is our greatest need and want. From a reductionist
psychology perspective, the desire to reconnect with the lost sense of original
wholeness can be understood as a regression back to the pre-birth state; but in spiritual
terms, this same urge translates into a mystical longing for union with our source and a
direct experience of being part of something greater than ourselves. It is a kind of divine
homesickness.1

In one respect, the prospect of a return to that state sounds blissful, ecstatic and
serenely peaceful. And yet, something else in us – the ego’s desire to preserve itself and
the fear of its own demise – contends with this longing. The ego has fought hard to win
a slice of life for itself: why should it relinquish this? In the glyph of Pisces, the sign
associated with the 12th house, two fishes swim in opposite directions. Human beings
are faced with a fundamental dilemma, with two contrasting pulls. Each person wants to



lose a sense of isolation and transcend his or her individual separateness and yet each
person is terrified of disintegration and dreads the loss of the separate self.2 This
existential double bind – wanting wholeness and yet fearing and resisting it – is the
major predicament of the 12th house.

Because the dissolution of the ego-identity is so frightening, people seek substitute
gratifications in an attempt to satisfy the yearning for self-transcendence. One strategy
for reconnecting to unity is through sex and love: ‘If I am loved, held or included, then I
go beyond my separateness.’ Another ploy to regain a lost sense of omnipotence and
omnipresence is through wielding power and prestige: ‘If I can extend my territory of
influence over more and more things, then the rest of life is connected to me.’
Immersion in alcohol or drugs is another way to break down boundaries and rigidities.
Suicidal urges and various other forms of self-destructive behaviour often cloak the
desire to return to a more blissful state of non-differentiated being. Others seek
transcendence more directly through meditation, prayer and devotion to God. The 12th
house may raise any of these issues.

Twelfth house

However it is approached, the 12th house ‘de-structures’, engulfs, absorbs or inflates
individual identity. Letting go of the ‘me-in-here’ versus ‘you-out-there’ paradigm
means that the borders between ourselves and others become blurred. For this reason, a
strong emphasis on this house can indicate people who have great difficulty in forming
clearly defined identities. They are swayed by whatever they are around, or whoever
they make contact with. Others distort their personal identities dramatically out of
proportion. Rather than sacrifice the ego to merge with something numinous and divine,
a person may try to imbue the ego itself with those qualities. Instead of seeking to
reconnect to God, the person tries to play God – a form of inflation related to what
Abraham Maslow called ‘higher-sidetracking’.

Along with the 12th house confusion about who we are often comes a lack of any



concrete direction in life. On some level, there may be the feeling that since everything
is all the same anyway, what’s the difference? As soon as a clear identity is
distinguished or a structure is imposed on the life, something happens which pulls the
rug from under the feet and nebulousness reigns supreme again. As soon as the
individual thinks he or she has captured something upon which to hang the sense of ‘I’,
it mysteriously slips away or disappears. The capacity to hold things together or further
their own personal ends is somehow subservient to a much greater dissolving power
over which there is little control.

The obscuring of boundaries between the self and others may create confusion about
where we begin and other people end, but it also confers a greater degree of empathy
and compassion for those with whom we share the earth. So overwhelmed by the
suffering around them, some people with a strong 12th house will seek any means of
escaping or withdrawing from the world altogether. Others who feel the pain ‘out there’
as their own will naturally work in some way to relieve that pain. To varying degrees,
the 12th house describes the helper, ‘fixer’, rescuer, martyr or saviour who ‘takes on’
the needs and causes of others.

The original meaning of the word sacrifice is ‘to make sacred’. Something was made
sacred by offering it to the gods or the higher forces. Rippling through all the levels of
meaning of the 12th is the supposition that the individual is redeemed through self-
sacrifice, through offering the self up to something greater. This is true in so far as we
must, to some extent, let go of a sense of an autonomous and separate self to merge with
the all-embracing whole. While sacrifice and suffering often serve to soften the ego and
give rise to greater empathy and spiritual awareness, the value of pain and the nature of
sacrifice are too easily distorted into ‘I have to suffer to find God’ or ‘Anything that
might constitute personal satisfaction must be given up’. However, perhaps it is not
things themselves which must be sacrificed, but rather our attachment to them. To the
degree that we derive our identity or fulfilment from such things as relationships,
possessions, ideologies or belief systems, we lose touch with our deeper and most basic
unbounded nature.

Some people may even manage to acquire or achieve their 11th house dreams and
wishes only to discover, in the 12th, that they still feel cheated of a more complete
happiness. What they thought would give them ultimate satisfaction just wasn’t enough,
or didn’t turn out to be everything. The Romans had a saying ‘Quod hoc ad
aeternitatem?’ meaning ‘What is this compared with eternity?’ Similarly, the 12th
house is a constant reminder that all joys long for infinity.

Traditionally, the 12th house (along with the other water houses – the 4th and the
8th) reveals patterns, drives, urges and compulsions which operate from below the level
of conscious awareness and yet significantly influence our choices, attitudes and
directions in life. Stored in our unconscious memory, past experiences colour the way
we see and meet the world. But from how far back do these past influences stem?

In some cases, planets and signs in the 12th may relate to what psychologists call
‘the umbilical effect’. According to this concept, the developing embryo is receptive not
just to physical substances which the mother ingests, but is also affected by her overall



psychological state during the gestation period. Her attitudes and experiences are
transmitted through the umbilical connection to the foetus in the womb. The nature of
what is ‘passed on’ to the child in this way is shown by placements in the 12th. If Pluto
is there, the mother might have endured a traumatic time during the pregnancy. The
child is then born with a sense of the danger of life and a nagging apprehension that
doom is only around the corner. There is no conscious memory of the source of this
attitude: only a vague feeling that this is what life is about. For example, I recently
came across the case of a pregnant mother who was diagnosed as having a brain
tumour. Her baby daughter was born with Pluto in the 12th and the mother died shortly
after her birth.

What about further back than the womb? Many astrologers refer to the 12th as the
‘house of karma’. Reincarnationists believe that the immortal human soul is on a
journey of perfection and return to its source that cannot be accomplished in one short
lifespan. Definite laws, rather than chance, operate to determine the circumstances of
every lifetime or each stage of the sojourn. With each new incarnation, we bring with us
the harvest of experience from previous lives, as well as latent capacities awaiting
development. Causes set in motion in prior existences affect what we meet in the
present one. The soul chooses a certain time to be born because the astrological pattern
fits the experiences needed for the present stage of growth. In this sense, the entire chart
depicts our karma – both what has accrued as a result of past actions and also what we
need to awaken to proceed further. More specifically, the 12th house shows what we are
‘bringing over’ from the past which will operate this lifetime on either the debit or
credit side of our account.

Difficult placements in the 12th may indicate old ‘trouble spots’ and energies which
we misused in earlier lives and still need to learn to handle wisely in this one. Positive
placements in this house suggest ingrained qualities which will serve us advantageously
this lifetime as a result of ‘work’ done on them in the past. Relative to this theory, some
astrologers label the 12th the house of ‘self-sustainment or self-undoing’. For instance,
if Mars or Aries is there, it could be that selfishness, impulsiveness, or rashness has
been a problem in the past and a continuation of such behaviour may be the cause of a
‘downfall’ in this life. On the other hand, a well-aspected 12th house Mars suggests that
positive Mars qualities such as courage, strength and forthrightness have already been
learned and will sustain the native through difficult times, coming to the fore just when
they are most needed. With mixed aspects to placements in the 12th, the effect of that
planet or energy somehow hangs in the balance, as if we are being tested for how we
handle that principle. If we use it wisely we will be rewarded; if we run amok with the
planet or sign in question, the consequences are likely to be severe.

Whether we refer to ‘the umbilical effect’ or to the theory of karma and
reincarnation, placements in the 12th describe influences which have come down to us
from causes and sources which we cannot obviously remember or see. Through the
watery 4th we inherit or retain vestiges of our ancestral past. In the 12th, it is possible
that we are receptive to an even larger pool or memory – what Jung called the collective
unconscious: the entire memory of the whole human race. Jung defined the collective



unconscious as ‘the precondition of each individual psyche, just as the sea is the carrier
of the individual wave’.3 In some way, as shown by the 12th house, each of us is linked
to the past, carrying records of experiences far beyond what we have personally known.

Besides the residue of the past, however, the collective unconscious is also the
storehouse of latent potentials waiting to be tapped. Colin Wilson writes that ‘the
unconscious mind may include all man’s past but it also includes his future.’4 The
unconscious mind is more than just a reservoir of repressed or buried thoughts,
impulses and wishes – it is also the source of ‘potentialities for knowing and
experiencing’ which the individual has yet to contact.5 The 12th house, in other words,
contains our future as well as our past.

Some people with 12th house placements serve as the mediators and transmitters of
universal, mythic and archetypal images swirling about on the level of the collective
unconscious. To varying degrees, certain artists, writers, composers, actors, religious
leaders, healers, mystics and modern-day prophets tap into this realm and become the
vehicles for inspiring others with what they have ‘tuned into’. They touch the
appropriate chord which then resonates with something inside us, and we are able to
share their experience. Numerous examples of charts with 12th house placements
illustrate this phenomenon: the composer Claude Debussy with sensuous Venus in Leo
in the 12th; William Blake with the imaginative and feeling Moon in Cancer in this
house; the poet Byron whose expansive and playful use of word, rhyme and form
invigorated the whole Romantic movement had Jupiter in Gemini in the 12th; and the
visionary Pierre Teilhard de Chardin with the Sun, Neptune, Venus, Pluto and the Moon
all in the 12th, are just a few cases in point.

It is as if energies in the 12th house are not intended to be used solely for personal
ends. We may be asked to express that principle for the sake of others, not just for
ourselves. For instance, if Mars is there we may take on the role of fighting a battle or
cause for other people. In this sense, we give our Mars away, or ‘offer it up’ to others.
Mercury in the 12th may speak other people’s thoughts or serve as a spokesperson for
others.

Some people, through 12th house placements, lead what might be called ‘symbolic
lives’. Their individual life issues reflect trends or dilemmas in the collective
atmosphere. For example, Mohandes Gandhi, with the Sun in Libra in the 12th, became
the living embodiment of a Libran principle of peaceful co-existence for millions of
people. Uranus in the 12th house of Hitler’s chart rendered him exceptionally open to
ideologies which may have been in the air at that time. Bob Dylan has Sagittarius on the
12th house cusp and its ruler Jupiter in the 5th, the area of the chart related to creative
expression. Through his music he was both the mouthpiece and inspiration for many of
the trends of the 1960s counter-culture. A black woman with Uranus in Cancer in the
12th was born and raised in a part of England where there were hardly any non-whites.
In having to integrate herself into the life of the town, she was not only dealing with her
own personal dilemma but fighting the cause of many other black people as well.

The 12th house has been called the house of ‘secret enemies’ and ‘behind the scenes
activity’. This could be taken literally to mean people who plot or conspire against us.



However, it is more likely to pertain to hidden weaknesses or forces in ourselves which
undermine the realization of our conscious goals and objectives. In brief, unconscious
drives and compulsions as shown by the 12th house placements can thwart the
achievement of our conscious aims. For instance, if a man has the Moon and Venus in
the 7th house, there is a strong urge to be close to another person in an intimate
relationship. But if this man also has Uranus in the 12th, it suggests that unconsciously
there may be such a strong desire for freedom and independence that he will somehow
sabotage any attempt to form binding ties. Generally, in any contest between conscious
aims and unconscious aims, it is usually the unconscious which wins. In this case, he
may habitually be attracted only to those women who are not free to marry or who, for
some reason, do not wish to reciprocate his advances. In this way, the unconscious
compulsion to remain independent (Uranus in the 12th) is victorious over the more
conscious needs. If we are conscious of urges in ourselves, we can do something to
regulate and alter these if we so wish. If we are unconscious of certain patterns or
drives, these have a way of dominating and controlling us. What we are unconscious of
in ourselves has a knack of coming up from behind and hitting us over the head.
Therefore, if no matter how hard we try, some conscious goal is continually blocked,
we might examine the 12th house for clues why.

The linking of the 12th house with institutions makes sense in the light of the various
connotations of this house discussed so far. The 12th shows what is hidden or in the
background just as hospitals and prisons are, in part, places where certain people are
‘stored away’ from society. Those with difficult placements in the 12th may ‘crack’
under the strain of life or fall prey to powerful unconscious complexes which erupt to
the surface, resulting in the need to be looked after and contained. Others are ‘put away’
because they are considered dangerous to the well-being of society. In any of these
cases, the will of a higher authority is forced on them, congruent with the 12th house
principle of the individual submitting to something greater than the self. Hospitalization
or a period of withdrawal from life may be needed to re-establish psychological and
physical balance, thus making a person whole again – another 12th house principle.
Experiences in orphanages, hospices and homes for the disabled also appear via the
12th.

It is not uncommon to find people with placements in this house working within
such institutions. Serving others less fortunate than the self is the practical expression of
compassion and empathy which the 12th house confers. The Church, various charities,
or the monastic life will be other spheres which absorb the person who feels it is his or
her calling to sacrifice or dedicate the life to God or the welfare of others.
Reincarnationists believe that past ‘bad karma’ can be cleared through goodwill and
service of this kind.

As already mentioned, the 12th house gives access to the collective archive of
experience passed on generation after generation. Therefore, it is not surprising that the
keepers of this storehouse – those who work for museums and libraries – often have
12th house placements.

It would not be appropriate to discuss the 12th house without mentioning again the



research done by Michel and Françoise Gauquelin.6 They analysed the careers of
successful sportspeople and found a correlation with Mars in the 12th house sector of
the chart. Similarly, scientists and physicians tended to have Saturn there, writers the
Moon, and actors Jupiter. Based on their studies, it appears that planets in the 12th (and
to some extent the 9th, 6th and 3rd) significantly determine the character and profession
of the native. This surprised many astrologers who assumed that placements in the 1st
or 10th houses should be stronger in this respect.

However, are their findings so strange in the light of what we understand the 12th
house to be? If there is an urge to ‘give away’ whatever is in the 12th to other people,
then it follows that we could make a career out of the principles there. Also, if the 12th
house indicates energies in the collective atmosphere to which we are sensitive, then it
is likely that our character and expression will reflect these. Sportspeople capture the
collective urge to compete and be first (Mars), writers tune into the collective
imagination (Moon), and scientists serve the collective need to classify and structure
(Saturn).

Since the 12th relates to reconnecting with something numinous and divine, an
individual may experience a planet there as the key or path to greatness and self-
transcendence. Naturally, he or she would want to develop it. On some level, they may
believe that the doors to heaven are opened through excelling at whatever principle is in
the 12th. The deep longing for wholeness and immortality which exists in all of us is
the enticement which motivates achievement through 12th house planets.

For some people, a 12th house emphasis contributes to the lack of a clear identity,
nebulousness, directionless lives, victimization, the experience of being overwhelmed
by unconscious drives or undercurrents at loose in the atmosphere, and a distorted sense
of the value of suffering and self-sacrifice. On the other hand, the 12th house concept of
surrendering the sense of being a separate self gives rise to true empathy and
compassion, selfless service, artistic inspiration, and ultimately the capacity to merge
with the greater whole.

In the 11th house, we theorize on the unity and interconnectedness of all life. It is
acknowledged in principle. In the 12th, the mystery of our oneness with the rest of
creation is perceived directly with every cell of the body. All of existence is felt as part
of ourselves, just as portions of our body are part of us. With such an awareness, it
would be as difficult to heedlessly harm another person as it would be to cut off one of
our fingers. Conversely, what we felt served our own individual well-being would
invariably serve the good of the whole.

An old story illustrates the positive side to the 12th house. A man is allowed to visit
Heaven and Hell. In Hell, he sees a large gathering of people sitting around a long table
set with rich and delectable food. And yet these people are miserable and starving. He
soon discovers that the reason for their dreadful state is that the spoons and forks
provided for them are longer than their arms. As a result, they are unable to bring the
food to their mouths and feed themselves. Then the man is shown Heaven. He finds the
same table set out there, with the same extra-long eating utensils. But, in Heaven,
instead of just trying to feed their own selves, each person uses his or her spoon and



fork to feed one another. They are all well-fed and happy.
While not fully losing our own personal identity or sense of our own unique

individuality, we need to experience, acknowledge, honour, and connect to that part of
us which is universal and unbounded. Ultimately, the trick is to swim in the waters of
the 12th house without drowning in it.

We emerge out of the universal matrix of life, establish ourselves as individual
entities, and then find that after all we are really one with all creation. Whether our
connection with the greater whole is consciously experienced or not through the 12th
house, it is inevitable that our physical bodies will die and disintegrate. When the body
dies, so does the sense of our having a separate physical existence. One way or another,
we return to the collective ground out of which we have come. What was there in the
beginning is there at the end. We arrive back at the Ascendant to begin again on a new
level of the spiral.

Notes – Chapter 14
1. Ken Wilber, Up From Eden, Routledge and Kegan Paul, London, 1983, pp. 25-6. See

also Dianne Binnington, The House of Dilemma, Snowhite Imprints, Bristol,
England, 1981.

2. Wilber, Up From Eden, pp. 13-15.
3. Jung cited in Ferrucci, What We May Be, Turnstone Press, Wellingborough,

Northamptonshire, England, 1982, p. 44.
4. Colin Wilson, The Philosopher’s Stone, Warner Paperback Library, New York, 1974,

p. 7.
5. Rollo May cited in Yalom, p. 278.
6. Michel Gauquelin, The Truth About Astrology, Hutchinson, London, 1984, p. 30.



15.

GROUPING THE HOUSES

Search for measurable elements among your phenomena and then search for
relations between these measures.

Alfred North Whitehead, Science and the Modern World

The twelve houses can be subdivided and classified under different headings. A
knowledge of these groupings enriches an understanding of the meaning of each house
and the way in which one house or sphere of life relates to another.

Hemispheres and Quadrants
The line of the horizon divides the chart into the upper (southern) and lower (northern)
hemispheres. The houses which fall below the horizon (houses 1-6) are most directly
concerned with the development of an individual and separate identity and the basic
requirements a person needs to meet life. These are known as the Personal Houses.

The houses which are above the horizon (houses 7-12) focus on the interconnection
of the individual with others: on an intimate one-to-one level, in terms of society as a
whole, and in relation to the rest of creation. These are known as the Collective Houses
(see Figure 5).

Fig.5



The axis of the meridian crosses the line of the horizon cutting the horizon in half,
and spawning another division of the wheel of the houses, the Four Quadrants (see
Figure 6).

In Quadrant I (houses 1-3) the individual begins to take shape as a distinct entity. A
sense of a separate identity forms through the differentiation of self (1st house), body
and substance (2nd house) and mind (3rd house) out of the universal matrix of life.

In Quadrant II (houses 4-6) growth involves the further expression and refinement
of the differentiated self. In the 4th house, shaped by the family background and
ancestral inheritance, the individual moulds a more cogent sense of his or her own
identity. With this as a gauge and base, the ‘I’ seeks to express itself outwardly in the
5th house, and then further specify, fine-tune and perfect its particular nature, skills and
capabilities (6th house).

In Quadrant III (houses 7-9) the individual expands awareness through relationship
with other people. In the 7th house, there is the close encounter between one person’s
reality and another person’s reality. The 8th house depicts the breaking down of the
individual ego-identity through the process of merging with another. The subsequent
broadening, reawakening, and re-visioning of the self is shown by the 9th house.

In Quadrant IV (houses 10-12) the main concern is the expanding or transcending of
the boundaries of the self to include not just one other but many others. A person’s role
in society is described by the 10th house, various forms of group consciousness are
explored in the 11th, and an individual’s spiritual identity – his or her relationship to
that which is greater and yet inclusive of the self – is explored in the 12th.

Fig.6

While the grouping of the houses by quadrants makes sense in terms of the logical
boundaries created by the cross of the horizon and the meridian, it is possible to



subdivide the wheel in yet another way (see Figure 7). In houses 1-4, the individual is
born and becomes conscious of his or her own existence, body, mind, background and
feelings. This phase establishes a sense of the ‘me-in-here’. Houses 5-8 depict the urge
to express and share the autonomous self with others: ‘me-in-here’ meets ‘you-out-
there’. In houses 9-12 the task is integration, not just with a few others, but with
society-at-large and the greater whole of which we are a part: the development of the
‘us-in-here’ reality. In this classification, each phase begins with the spark and
inspiration of a fiery house (1st, 5th and 9th) indicating the birth into a new level of
being; and each phase ends with a watery house (4th, 8th and 12th) describing the
dissolution, assimilation and transition which leads to the next stage.

Fig. 7

Angular, Succedent and Cadent
The houses are traditionally classified according to whether they are angular, succedent
or cadent.

Angular Houses (Figure 8)
In Quadrant systems of house-division, the Angular Houses are the ones which follow
immediately upon the four angles: the 1st house begins with the Ascendant, the 4th
house with the IC, the 7th with the Descendant, and the 10th with the MC. In the natural
zodiac, the angular houses correspond to the cardinal signs of Aries (spring equinox),
Cancer (summer solstice), Libra (autumnal equinox) and Capricorn (winter solstice).
Cardinal signs generate and release new energy. Similarly, the angular houses spur us
into action and represent four basic areas of life which have a strong impact on our



individuality: personal identity (1st house), the home and family background (4th
house), personal relationships (7th) and career (10th).

Fig. 8 Angular Houses Activating and Generating Energy

The signs of the cardinal cross figuratively square or oppose one another. Likewise,
the four angular houses represent four spheres of life which are potentially in conflict
with each other. An understanding of the paradoxes and dilemmas presented by the
different angular houses will help in the interpretation of possible squares and
oppositions planets may make to one another if placed in these houses.*

The 1st-7th opposition
Some degree of personal identity and freedom (1st) must be sacrificed to function in a
relationship (7th). An opposition between these two houses gives the classic dilemma of
will versus love: how much do we assert our own individuality and how much do we
adjust to what others need or require. There is a fear that if we adjust too much, then we
lose our own separate identity; but conversely, if we are too self-centred and
demanding, then others won’t love us.

The 4th-10th opposition
Here, one possible conflict is between staying at home and participating in the family
unit (4th) versus being away from the family in order to establish a career (10th). The
man immersed in career responsibilities does not have the time to be with the family, or



spare moments to reflect on the deeper meaning of life. The woman with oppositions
between these two houses may be torn between the desire for a profession and her role
as a wife or mother. The child-in-us (4th) could conflict with the ‘adult-like’ behaviour
expected in professional life (10th). The businessman, for instance, cannot ‘throw a
tantrum’ in front of a client if the deal threatens to collapse at the last moment.

Our early conditioning (4th) influences how we function later in society (10th). Have
we been so denigrated as a child that we feel we have nothing to offer society? Or are
we the rejected child who is determined to show ‘them’ and make a mark on the world?
Have we been so spoiled and protected by our parents that we lack the equipment or
impetus to venture out of the family home at all? These issues may arise if there are
oppositions between planets in the 4th and 10th houses.

The 1st-4th square
We are born separate and unique individuals (1st), but to what degree does the home
life (4th) support or quash our budding individuality? I drew up the chart of a young
man who had Jupiter in Leo in the 1st squared to Neptune in Scorpio in the 4th. His
natural spontaneity and enthusiasm (Jupiter in the 1st) had to be contained and
restricted so as not to disturb an ailing father (Neptune in the 4th). We might like to be
independent and free (1st), but regressive urges to stay with what is secure and already
known inhibit us (4th).

The 4th-7th square
With squares between the 4th and 7th houses, there is a likelihood of projecting
‘unfinished business’ around a parent (usually the father) onto a partner. Patterns
established early in life (4th) often obscure our ability to see other people clearly (7th).
Problems in establishing a home (4th) with a partner (7th) could arise if planets in these
houses square one another. The capacity to be objective and fair with others is
interfered with because of childish needs and complexes.

The 7th-10th square
Conflicts could surface between career (10th) and relationship (7th). If we are so busy
pursuing a career, we may have less time for close partnerships. Our attractiveness to a
partner (7th) may be contingent on our status in the world (10th). Or a partner may be
sought who enhances our social standing. Issues with our mother can interfere with
seeing a partner clearly.

The 1st-10th square
Self-discipline is needed to forge a career (10th) and this invariably limits our personal
freedom and spontaneity (1st). What society approves of and validates (10th) may
impose restrictions on what we are naturally inclined to do (1st). Something the mother
represents (10th) may inhibit the expression of the 1st house planet. One man with
Venus in Leo in the 1st squared to the Moon in Taurus in the 10th wanted to be an artist
(Venus in Leo in the 1st) but his mother insisted that he choose a more practical career



(Moon in Taurus in the 10th). Often, we are labelled solely by what we do in the world
(10th) rather than by other qualities we might possess (1st).

Succedent Houses (Figure 9)
The forces set in motion in the angular houses are concentrated, embellished, utilized
and developed further in the Succedent Houses: the 2nd, 5th, 8th and 11th. These
houses are naturally associated with the fixed signs of Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and
Aquarius, which consolidate the generative energy of cardinal signs. The succedent 2nd
house adds substance to the personal identity (1st) through defining our possessions,
resources, shape and boundary. In the succedent 5th house, we affirm and strengthen the
sense of ‘I’ distilled from the angular 4th by expressing who we are and impressing
ourselves on others. Through the activity of relating to others (angular 7th house) we
increase our resources and delve deeper into ourselves (the succedent 8th). Participating
in the maintaining and functioning of society (the angular 10th) enhances the awareness
of ourselves as social beings and provides the basis for expanding our sense of identity
to encompass bigger and broader boundaries (the succedent 11th).

Like the angular houses, the four succedent houses represent spheres of life which
are potentially in conflict with each other.

Fig. 9 Succedent Houses Stabilizing and Concretizing Energy

The 2nd-8th opposition
Conflicts arise between what one person possesses and values versus what another



person holds dear. The 2nd house preserves and maintains forms; the 8th house tears
things down to make room for something new. We sacrifice our boundaries (2nd) to
merge fully with another (8th). The 2nd house sees the face value of something, while
the 8th house looks underneath to detect the hidden significance. The 2nd house tends
to indulge the appetites and bodily needs, whereas the 8th seeks to gain mastery over
instinctual processes.

The 5th-11th opposition
In the 5th house, we create for our own personal satisfaction, such as designing our own
stationery; in the 11th, we devote our energy to something greater than ourselves, such
as designing a poster to promote a lecture for a group to which we belong. Another
issue might be whether we are willing to release our children or works of art (5th) into
the world (11th). A dilemma may arise between ‘what I want to do’ and the consensus
of the group of which I am a member. Do I demand they conform to me (5th) or do I
accept the group opinion (11th)?

The 2nd-5th square
A number of conflicts can be stirred if planets in the 2nd square planets in the 5th. The
need for security and a regular income (2nd) could interfere with time spent on more
creative and recreational activities (5th). Conversely, the struggling artist or ‘resting’
actor (5th) often suffers from the lack of a stable income (2nd). Some people with
squares between the 2nd and 5th derive their sense of power, worth and importance
(5th) solely through what they own and possess (2nd). Children (5th) might be treated
as possessions (2nd) or experienced as a drain on resources.

The 5th-8th square
In the 5th house, we like to be seen as bright, positive, creative and special. Value is
placed on those things which enhance the joy and dignity of life. The 8th depicts the
darker, more intense and destructive elements lurking in the personality. If we have
these two houses accentuated we may be engaged in a fierce battle between light and
dark forces in the psyche. The kinds of crises associated with the 8th house can
temporarily disrupt the 5th house’s spontaneity and enthusiasm for life. Instead of
feeling in charge of our lives (5th), we may be driven by unconscious complexes (8th)
to act in ways over which we have little control. Sexual conquest could be utilized as a
means of affirming our self-importance. Squares between the 5th and 8th houses can
sometimes manifest as intense conflicts with one’s children. Personal creativity (5th) is
associated with emotional tension and frustration (8th). On the positive side, periods of
psychological renewal and cleansing (8th) free the life-force to express itself more
purely (5th). Creative expression (5th) may be a way of clearing something out of the
system (8th). Destructive excesses (8th) may be glamorized (5th) as in the case of the
tortured French poet, Rimbaud, who had Saturn in the 8th squared to Neptune in the
5th.



The 8th-11th square
The 11th house may have a vision of a better society, but has it taken into account deep-
seated complexes (8th) in people which obscure the ability to relate to others fairly and
objectively? The raging and needy infant in us (8th) can wreak havoc in our
relationships with friends or groups (11th). The societal reformer with squares between
the 11th and the 8th may be fired with such conviction that any means justifies
achieving his or her ends. Sexual undercurrents (8th) could intrude on a friendship
(11th). In short, highly charged emotions could inhibit the ease with which we relate to
the larger unit of society. Conflicts could arise between our own humanitarian, political
and social ideals (11th) and those of our partner (8th).

The 11th-2nd square
The 11th house may propose such liberal aims as the equal distribution of wealth, but
the 2nd house desire to own things personally could contradict this. The 2nd house need
to establish clear individual boundaries conflicts with the 11th house urge for a wider
group membership. Eleventh house idealism may be ‘out of touch’ with the down-to-
earth 2nd house. Problems could ensue in financial dealings (2nd) with friends (11th).
We could become so strongly attached (2nd) to achieving certain goals and objectives
(11th), that excessive force could be used to obtain these. We may cling too tenaciously
(2nd) to ideas (11th). More positively, there may be the practical sense and ability (2nd)
to realize hopes and wishes (11th).

Fig. 10 Cadent Houses Distributing, Readjusting and Reorientating
Energy

Cadent Houses (Figure 10)



The Cadent Houses (the 3rd, 6th, 9th and 12th) are associated with the mutable signs of
Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces. While angular houses generate energy and
succedent houses concentrate energy, the cadent houses distribute and reorganize
energy. In each cadent house, we reconsider, readjust or reorientate ourselves on the
basis of what we have previously experienced in the preceding succedent house. In the
cadent 3rd house, we learn more about who we are through comparing and contrasting
ourselves with those around us. As the mental capacities develop, we enter a world
beyond that of the bodily senses and biological needs (2nd house). The cadent 6th
house reflects on the use or misuse of the outpouring of energy in the 5th, and makes
adjustments accordingly. The interpersonal explorations and struggles of the 8th are
conducive to the 9th house reflections on the deeper laws and processes which govern
existence, and the patterns which weave us together. The perspective of the individual
ego, already reeling from the 11th house experience of being part of a group or larger
system, finally, in the cadent 12th, topples down altogether from its position as king of
the mountain.

Cadent houses have often been described as weak or insubstantial, but the research
done by the Gauquelins suggests that placements in these houses are more powerful
than previously believed. Michel Gauquelin and his wife Françoise were both
psychologists and statisticians who studied the diurnal distribution of the planets in
thousands of accurately timed birthcharts. In particular, they analysed the house
position of planets in the charts of certain professions – actors, artists, doctors, business
executives, politicians, scientists, soldiers, sports champions, writers and others. The
results of their research showed that the planets naturally associated with each of these
professions (such as Mars for sportspeople, Saturn for scientists, etc.) appeared more
often in the cadent houses than in the angular houses, as traditional astrology would
have expected. For instance, Mars in the charts of successful sportspeople appeared
most often in the 12th and 9th houses: that is, just after the rising and superior
culmination of the planet rather than just before in the 1st or 10th houses. The next most
frequent house positions of Mars for the sportspeople they tested were the 6th and the
3rd houses. Again, these are just after the setting and inferior culmination of the planet,
rather than before in the 7th or 4th houses. The conclusion to be drawn from their
survey is that cadent houses are more important factors in determining character and
career than previously suspected.

Briefly recapitulated, they found these correlations:1
1. Mars appeared most frequently in cadent houses in the charts of physicians, military
leaders, sports champions and top executives.
2. Jupiter appeared most frequently in cadent houses in the charts of actors, playwrights,
politicians, military leaders, top executives and journalists.
3. Saturn appeared most frequently in cadent houses in the charts of scientists and
physicians.
4. The Moon appeared most frequently in cadent houses in the charts of writers and
politicians.



In the discussion of the 12th house, I have explained why I don’t find these results that
surprising (see page 84). A similar rationale can be applied to the other cadent houses.
The 9th is where we look for truth and principles to guide our lives – therefore we will
be highly motivated to develop and give expression to the planets there as a way of
lending greater meaning to our existence. Both the 6th and the 3rd houses describe our
efforts to discern how we differ from other people. Therefore, developing the planets in
these houses is crucial if we are to differentiate ourselves fully from others and define
ourselves as separate individuals. The urge to connect to something greater than the self
(as shown by the 12th and the 9th) and the urge to establish and characterize our own
specific identities (as shown by the 3rd and the 6th) are the two complementary
principles which form the crux of the human dilemma. Seen in this light, the planets in
these houses assume a great importance.

As in the case of the four angular houses and the four succedent houses, the four
cadent houses figuratively square or oppose one another. Each one represents a
contrasting view of life and a different method of acquiring and processing information.

The 3rd-9th opposition
The 3rd house describes the nature of the analytical and concrete mind while the 9th
house denotes more abstract and intuitive thought processes. The 3rd house sees the
parts; the 9th looks first at the whole. When planets are found in opposition between
these two houses, it could signify a good balance and integration between the right and
left hemispheres of the brain. However, in certain cases, the opposition might denote a
person who gathers facts (3rd) and then draws the wrong conclusions (9th) from them.
Mountains are made of molehills, or conversely, a person may adhere to some belief or
truth (9th) and then interpret everything around them (3rd) solely in the light of these
principles. In other words, facts are distorted to prove a point. The 3rd house may
labour for many weeks preparing a lecture, making sure that each word conveys the
precise meaning intended. The 9th house lecturer may prefer to wait to see what the
audience is like, trusting that he or she will intuitively know what to say when the time
comes. Sometimes with the 3rd-9th opposition, there is a persistent feeling that the
grass is greener farther afield.

The 6th-12th opposition
The 6th house examines the myriad forms of relative existence, scrutinizing in detail
how one thing differs from another. The 12th house, however, embraces the essence of
a thing – not how much it weighs or measures, but what it ‘feels’ like. The 6th is
discriminating and selective, carefully defining boundaries; the 12th is empathetic and
all-inclusive, and a boundary-dissolver. The 6th house is pragmatic, logical and
concerned with the everyday realities of life; the 12th aspires to transcend whatever is
mundane, and is aware of the elusive, unknowable and mysterious nuances of existence.
The 6th house plans life; the 12th flows with it.

Oppositions between these two houses heighten these contrasting approaches to life,
but afford a greater chance of achieving a synthesis of the various modes of being. I



have seen 6th-12th house oppositions, for instance, in the charts of spiritually-minded
people who also have their feet firmly on the ground. One was a dentist with Moon in
Capricorn in the 6th opposing Jupiter in Cancer in the 12th, who was a devout follower
of an Indian guru. Another was a carpenter who volunteered his services to train people
in Third World countries in his skill. He had three planets in the 6th opposing Uranus in
the 12th.

Oppositions between the 6th and 12th sometimes manifest in physical ailments
which are psychological in origin. Reincarnationists believe that certain health
problems (6th) may be the consequences of past-life behaviour (12th). For example, if a
man overindulged in food and drink in a previous life, he might be born this life with
allergies to certain foods, forcing him to pay more attention to what he put into his
body. Or a person who habitually looked down on others in a past life could find
himself abnormally tall in this lifetime. Or perhaps he would be born unusually short, so
he could experience what it felt like to be the one looked down upon. In any case, with
6th-12th oppositions, the origins of ill health may be difficult to diagnose, stemming
from a source which is not obvious to trace.

The 3rd-6th square
Here we have linked together the two houses most directly related to the processes of
the logical and rational left brain. The tendency is for the mind to overwork. The 3rd
house likes to know a little something about everything, while the 6th house wants to
know as much as possible about a few things. Put these two together and we have
somebody who wants to know as much as possible about everything. With planets in
both the 3rd and 6th, it is possible that something could be analysed out of existence.
Taken to extremes, it could be a person who insists that the only real difference between
the plays Othello and Hamlet is that the letters of the alphabet are arranged differently
in each play.

More positively, there is generally the pursuit of information (3rd) for the sake of
using it practically (6th). There can be a great deal of bickering over details and much
discussion about the precise and proper way something should be done. Consequently,
those with the 3rd/6th house combination usually do not let others escape with being
too abstract, whimsical or vague. If I have someone with these placements scheduled
for a chart reading, I will allow an extra half-hour for questions at the end. (‘What
exactly do you mean by …?’)

With squares between these houses, it is possible that health issues (6th) could affect
physical mobility as well as the clear functioning of the mind (3rd). Sometimes
unresolved conflicts with siblings (3rd) resurface in the form of problems with co-
workers (6th).

The 6th-9th square
The combination of the expansive and truth-seeking 9th house with the mundane and
practically-minded 6th can produce a restless soul who moves from one preoccupation
to another in a constant search for one thing which is totally fulfilling. The catch is that



they will usually find that the thing upon which all the hopes have been pinned
somehow falls short of the mark. When that fails, something else is fervently pursued
with the same abiding conviction that it should provide ‘everything’. Rather than
looking to one thing to be the whole truth, they should approach it with the attitude that
it may offer some version or angle of the truth. In other words, they take the pressure
off one thing to be everything. Then they can find something else to offer another bit of
the truth and other kinds of fulfilment. In this way, they are not opening themselves to
complete disappointment if one focus of attention doesn’t deliver all the nourishment
they crave.

The square between the 6th and 9th can be seen historically in the conflict between
inductive modes of scientific investigation (6th) and the kind of knowing which arises
from religious faith and beliefs (9th). 6th-9th tension also manifests in the kinds of
theological disputes that are concerned with exactly how many angels can dance on the
head of a pin. Scriptures (9th) may be interpreted in a fundamentalist way: laws and
rituals are to be followed exactly to ensure that even the most humble or ordinary
aspects of existence (6th) partake of the sacred or are performed in accordance to higher
law (9th). There is also the ability to perceive cosmic significance (9th) in the smallest
details of life (6th). On another level, health problems (6th) could occur through travel
(9th). Or there may be many differences of opinion with in-laws (9th) over the
management of daily affairs (6th).

The 9th-12th square
In this case we have two houses of an expansive nature in relationship to one another.
Neither sphere is fond of boundaries and limitations, and those with planets in both
these houses may not feel very comfortable within the confines of a mundane existence.
Usually an interest in philosophical or religious matters predominates: in extreme cases,
they live in a world of symbols, dreams and images, surviving from one peak
experience to the next, often totally forgetting about having to go to the dentist. They
may have an unending source of transpersonal inspiration but no vehicles for expressing
or relating their vision to everyday life. Not inclined to analytical thinking, they may
swallow a belief whole and live it fervently until it is spat out again and something new
is looked for to swallow. Some sidetrack too far with delusions of being another
Napoleon or Christ, landing themselves in mental institutions (12th). More positively,
those with a heavy 9th-12th emphasis serve to open other people’s eyes to realities
beyond the ken of the typical 3rd-6th house thinker.

There are differences in the 9th and 12th house approach to ‘higher understanding’.
The 9th house believes that the basic patterns and principles which govern life can be
known and comprehended. The 12th house feels something which is often
unfathomable and beyond knowing. The 9th house is basically concerned with scaling
new heights; the 12th finds inspiration not only in the heights, but also in the depths –
ecstasy and pain, bliss and suffering, are intimately connected. On a more mundane
level, there may be strange and inexplicable yearnings to travel to different countries
and a danger of imprisonment (12th) in a foreign land (9th).



The 3rd-12th square
Broadly speaking, the 12th is the unconscious mind and the 3rd the conscious mind.
The 12th is the domain of what is hidden and unseen, while the 3rd perceives what is
immediate and at hand in the environment. An action or statement can be appreciated at
its face value (3rd) or may be felt to be cloaking less obvious feelings or motivations
(12th). In psychology, this is known as the meta-meaning. The 3rd house observes the
actions and makes sense of the words, but the 12th house ‘picks up on’ and is sensitive
to other levels of what is being said or done. The 3rd/12th combination perceives many
levels of reality at once. This confers either uncanny insight into people and situations
or a great deal of mental confusion. Should they believe what they hear and see or what
they sense and feel?

These kinds of mixed messages are not uncommon among siblings (3rd). In general,
older siblings feel ambivalent towards the younger child: they know they are supposed
to love the new baby, but jealousy and destructive urges are there as well. The younger
sibling perceives the older child acting kindly towards him or her, and yet senses
something less pleasant passing between them as well. Which level should be taken as
real? A case in question is a woman I knew with Saturn and Pluto in the 12th squared to
the Moon in Scorpio in the 3rd. Her older sister was outwardly kind to her, but
underneath resented the intrusion of the younger child. Later in life, the younger child
grew into a woman who had enormous difficulty trusting or believing in what others
said to her. Whatever was expressed or done was interpreted in a negative light as if it
was intended to threaten her. She mysteriously became deaf in one ear and lived a
lonely life in isolation from others. Unresolved past issues (12th) with siblings (3rd)
prevented her from relating in a natural way with those around her. With squares
between the 12th and 3rd, the capacity for making decisions or the ability to clearly
perceive life may be distorted by deep-rooted unconscious complexes. These need to be
examined and cleaned up through a conscious analysis (3rd) of the images and fantasies
lurking beneath the surface level of the psyche (12th).

Classifying the Houses by Elements
Another way to group the houses is by elements. There are three fire houses (1st, 5th
and 9th); three earth houses (2nd, 6th and 10th); three air houses (3rd, 7th and 11th);
and three water houses (4th, 8th and 12th). A meaningful and sequential development
can be observed as we progress from the first house associated with a particular
element, to the second house of that element, and on to the third house of the same
element. In general, the first house associated with a particular element brings the
nature of that element into focus and personalizes it. The next house aligned with that
element further differentiates and defines that principle, usually through comparing our
expression of it with that of others. The third house related to a particular element
universalizes its expression: that element can be seen to be operating on a broad
collective level.



Fig. 11 Fire: The Trinity of Spirit

The Fire Houses: The Trinity of Spirit (Figure 11)
Fire is the life-force which animates all living forms. It is the element associated with
the will-to-be: the urge to express from inside the self.

The 1st house is the first fire house. It is also angular. If we combine the qualities of
fire with the nature of angular houses (activity and release of energy) we arrive at a
good description of the 1st house – the activity of releasing the life-force. The 1st house
shows the initial stirring of being inside us, the urge to be a separate and distinct person.
Developing the signs and planets in the 1st house vitalizes and enlivens us.

The second fire house is the 5th house. It is also a succedent house. Therefore the 5th
house combines the qualities associated with succedent houses and the qualities
associated with the element of fire. Succedent houses concentrate, stabilize and utilize
the energy generated in angular houses. In the case of the 5th house, the pure spirit of
the 1st house is given focus and direction. We strengthen our sense of identity (1st) by
pursuing those outlets and interests which make us feel more alive, and by stamping our
individuality on what we do or create (5th).

The third fire house is the 9th house. It is also a cadent house. Therefore the 9th
house combines the qualities associated with cadent houses and the qualities associated
with the element of fire. Cadent houses reconsider, readjust and reorientate the way we
focus our energy. In the 9th house, we revamp our sense of identity through viewing life
and ourselves in a broader context. The fire we recognized burning inside us in the 1st



and 5th houses has now spread to everyone else: we now perceive ‘fire’ or spirit as a
universal attribute existing in everything around us. In the 5th house, we explore our
own personal creativity, but in the 9th we glimpse the workings of a cosmic creative
intelligence which shapes life in accordance with certain laws and universal principles.

In the first fire house (1st) our own identity is sparked. In the second fire house (5th)
we strengthen, confirm and express that identity. In the third fire house (9th) the
creative nature of fire and the urge-to-be is seen expressing itself impersonally through
the archetypal principles which govern and generate all of life.

The three fire houses symbolically trine one another. Planets in the 1st, 5th or 9th
houses may literally trine each other – that is, form 120 degree angles to each other
(allowing an 8-10 degree orb or so). However, in finding aspects we must always count
the actual number of degrees between the two planets, not just the number of houses. A
planet in the 1st does not automatically trine a planet in the 5th, and in some cases, due
to the unequal size of houses in Quadrant systems, the two planets may even square one
another. Nonetheless, it is helpful to understand the basic affinity between placements
in houses associated with the same element in the natural zodiac.

The 1st-5th trine
If a planet in the 1st house trines a planet in the 5th, then the 1st house planet finds a
creative release through the 5th house planet. For instance, if Mercury is in the 1st
house and trine to Jupiter in the 5th, the urge to communicate and exchange information
symbolized by Mercury may have an outlet through some form of artistic expression
(Jupiter in the 5th). In trine contacts between the 1st and the 5th, there is a natural ease
or flow in outwardly expressing who we are. The French author, Victor Hugo, who
expressed his humanitarian concerns through literature, had sympathetic Neptune in the
1st trine to Mercury in the 5th.

The 5th-9th trine
If a 5th house planet trines a 9th house planet then what we express or create (5th) often
influences and inspires other people (the expansive nature of the 9th). It may seem as if
creativity flows through us from a higher source of inspiration or ‘fired’ vision. Lord
Byron, the English Romantic poet who expressed his acute sensitivity to beauty through
his work, had Venus in the 9th trine Neptune in the 5th.

The 1st-9th trine
Those with trines between these two houses naturally act in accord with a broadened
view of life. Their actions comply with trends already in the atmosphere, and therefore
less resistance is met in achieving their aims. A wide scope on existence (9th) guides
the manner in which they meet the world (1st). The danger with this trine is that it can
too easily give rise to the individual identifying the self with the Voice of God, and
justifying action on the basis of a higher authority or guiding principle. For example,
Francisco Franco, the fascist dictator, had the Moon, Neptune and Pluto in the 9th trine
to Saturn in the 1st.



Fig. 12 Earth: The Trinity of Matter

The Earth Houses: The Trinity of Matter (Figure 12)
The element of earth is associated with the plane of material existence: the
condensation of spirit into concrete forms.

The first earth house is the 2nd house. It is also a succedent house. Therefore, the
2nd house represents matter trying to make itself more secure or stable: hence the
associations of the 2nd house with money, possessions and resources. It shows those
things – including the body – which we like to call our own. In economic terms it is
capital.

The second earth house is the 6th, which is also a cadent house. Therefore, the 6th
house adjusts and reconsiders the earth principle. In this house, our resources and skills
are compared to other people’s resources and skills. Our special abilities are refined and
perfected. The body as well needs attention to function efficiently and ill health can be
understood as the body trying to readjust itself. In economic terms, it represents the
labour force.

The third earth house is the 10th, which is an angular house. In this case, there is the
need to generate matter, i.e. productivity. In one sense, the 10th represents the forces of
management who actively organize and oversee capital and labour. More personally, it
shows how we purposefully structure and direct our energy and abilities for the sake of
concrete and definite results. Hence, the association of the 10th with career, ambition
and the way we like to be seen by the world. More broadly, the 10th house depicts the



role the individual plays in perpetuating and maintaining the body of society itself.
In the first earth house (2nd) the body and matter itself is differentiated from the

ouroboric wholeness of life. In the second earth house (6th) our particular body and
resources, differentiated in the 2nd, are more specifically delineated. In the third earth
house (10th) our own body and practical skills (differentiated in the 2nd and more
clearly defined in the 6th) come together with others to form and maintain collective
material existence.

The three earth houses symbolically trine one another, and planets in these houses
may literally trine each other.

The 2nd-6th trine
If a planet in the 2nd trines a planet in the 6th, the individual is equipped with resources
and abilities which he or she can use skilfully and productively, and usually with
adequate financial remuneration. There is often an efficient and adept handling of the
material world.

The 6th-10th trine
With this trine, there is the likelihood that a person’s skills and style of working are
conducive to success in a career. It is possible that something inherited via the mother
(10th) contributes to the repertoire of talents and abilities (6th). The daughter of show
business parents, Candice Bergen makes good use of both her beauty and intelligence in
her careers as an actress and photo-journalist. She was born with Venus conjunct
Uranus in Gemini in the 6th trine to Jupiter in Libra in the 10th.

The 2nd-10th trine
In this case, the career is usually well-suited to the temperament and abilities. Money
and status can be earned from what a person naturally enjoys doing. Something of
worth is inherited via the mother or shaping parent (10th). Sir Harry Lauder, the
comedian and entertainer, had a wide public appeal and was especially loved for his
Scottish dialect. He was born with Mercury (the planet of speech) in the 2nd (resources)
trine to Neptune in the 10th.

The Air Houses: The Trinity of Relationship (Figure 13)
Air is associated with the capacity to detach the self and view something objectively
with distance and perspective. Once we have separated or distinguished ourselves from
the universal matrix of life, then we can start forming relationships with what we find.
The element of air correlates to the intellect and the communication and exchange of
ideas.

The first air house is the 3rd, which is also a cadent house. Movement, mental
development and the advent of language enable us to readjust and redefine the more
concrete sense of self just forming in the 1st and 2nd houses. The second air house is
the 7th, which is angular. My mind and perspective on life (3rd) meets your mind and
perspective on life (7th). The coming together of two people generates an enormous



amount of energy and the failure or success of a relationship may affect how we feel
about many other areas of our lives. The third air house (11th) is succedent. We
stabilize and strengthen our viewpoints by looking for other people (groups and friends)
who share our ideas. Minds come together in the 11th. Ideas are ‘fixed’ into ideologies
and ‘isms’ which are broadly applied to society and ‘taken up’ by large numbers of
people.

Fig. 13 Air: The Trinity of Relationship

The three air houses symbolically trine one another, and planets in these houses may
literally trine each other.

The 3rd-7th trine
The 3rd house is associated with communication and if a planet there trines one in the
7th, there is an ease in communicating with close partners. We can make ourselves
heard as well as being able to understand or appreciate others (intellectually at least).
There is usually a lively interest and fair degree of perception into the way in which one
person or thing interacts or relates with another.

The 7th-11th trine
A partnership may serve as a source of social or intellectual expansion. It may be a
friend (11th) who introduces this person to the future marriage partner (7th). Or an
important relationship (7th) may be formed with someone the person meets through a



group or organization (11th). Usually the partner (7th) shares the person’s goals and
objectives and is helpful in achieving these. Jean Houston, a leading figure in
humanistic psychology, has Jupiter in the 7th trine to Pluto in the 11th. She and her
husband, Robert Masters, co-founded an institute for mind research and have together
developed numerous techniques to broaden awareness.

The 3rd-11th trine
If a planet in the 3rd trines a planet in the 11th, there is usually an ease relating to
groups of people. There may be an intuitive grasp of how the individual mind (3rd) is
linked to others (11th). The person can speak clearly (3rd) about broad concepts or
those things which he or she envisions (11th). Friends or groups (11th) inspire and
expand the thinking (3rd), and conversely, the person’s point of view or general
knowledge affects others. Albert Einstein had Uranus in the 3rd trine to Neptune in the
11th. His new discoveries (Uranus in the 3rd) have led to a greater understanding of the
interconnectedness of all life (11th). On another level, a 3rd-11th trine may mean that
neighbourhood groups (3rd) can be formed to promote needed social changes (11th), or
a sibling (3rd) might introduce the person to new friends, ideas or groups (11th).

The Water Houses: The Trinity of Soul (Figure 14)
Water is the element associated with the feelings. All three water houses are concerned
with emotions which dwell beneath the surface level of consciousness. They also deal
with the past conditioned responses which are now instinctual, unreflective and inbred.

The first water house is the 4th, which is also angular. It describes feelings active
deep within us, as well as the family background and influences within the early home
which shape the identity. In the second water house, the succedent 8th, our feelings are
strengthened, deepened and stirred through close relationship with another person. Two
people, each with their own family backgrounds and emotional make-up, attempt to
merge into one. Greater security (a succedent quality) is sought through two people
linking their feelings together. In the 8th, our own feelings (differentiated and
recognized in the angular 4th) flow into another person’s feelings. In the third water
house, the cadent 12th, we progress from union with a select few (8th) to a sense of
unity with all life. We acknowledge the collective unconscious, the collective sea out of
which we all emerge, and the background we share with everyone and everything.



Fig. 14 Water: The Trinity of Soul

In the 4th house we feel our own joy and pain; in the 8th we feel the joy and pain of
a close associate; in the 12th, we feel the world’s joy and pain. The sequential
development of the water houses, as with the houses of the other elements, is a
movement from the personal to the interpersonal to the universal.

The three water houses symbolically trine one another, and planets in these houses
may literally trine each other.

The 4th-8th trine
This aspect helps a person to share his or her deeper feelings with another person. There
will be extreme sensitivity to undercurrents in the home atmosphere. Those with these
placements have a knack for sensing another person’s motives or hidden feelings. With
harmonious aspects between planets in the 4th and 8th, there is the likelihood that a
positive early home experience increases the capacity for satisfying interpersonal
relationships later in life. Sometimes, the 4th-8th trine is an indication of inheritance
(8th) of land or property (4th).

The 8th-12th trine
Aspects between these houses enhance a person’s insight into what is subtle or
mysterious in life. They see or feel things which others do not have the sensitivity to
perceive. Resources can be found to turn a crisis into an opportunity for growth. Often
help appears when it is most needed. People with these aspects can guide others through



times of upheaval (8th) and may work successfully within institutions (12th). A woman
I know with the Sun in the 8th trine Neptune in the 12th has narrowly escaped death
three times. She was also employed as a counsellor (8th) for young offenders in prison
(12th) and a fund-raiser (8th) for charities (12th). Recently a family inheritance (8th)
has freed her to pursue her humanitarian aims more fully (12th).

The 4th-12th trine
Those with trines between the 4th and 12th houses are so sensitive to undercurrents in
the atmosphere that they often experience other people’s moods and feelings as their
own. There is a natural receptivity to collective trends and fashions. Conversely, they
are sometimes capable of influencing a group of people through the power of their
emotions and feelings. There may be a psychic link with the father (4th), whether he is
alive or not. The possibilities of positive experiences through 12th house institutions are
increased. Times of rest and retreat from outer life are periodically needed and usually
beneficial. Paramhansa Yogananda, an Eastern mystic who founded the Self-Realization
Institute, was born with Venus and Mercury in the 4th trine to the Moon in the 12th.

Notes – Chapter 15
1. Gauquelin, p. 30.

*A square is a 90 degree angle between two planets; the opposition is a 180 degree angle. A planet in the 1st may or
may not oppose a planet in the 7th. However, if they are in opposition, tension arises between these two areas of
life. Even if they do not form an opposition aspect, the pull of one house and the pull of the opposite house could
still present a problem. The same applies to planets in those houses which, figuratively speaking at least, square
one another.



PART III: A GUIDE TO LIFE’S POSSIBILITIES



16.

GENERAL GUIDELINES: THE PLANETS AND SIGNS
THROUGH THE HOUSES

In every corner of my soul, there is an altar to a different god.
Fernando Pessoa

Ideally, every factor in the chart should be interpreted in the light of the whole chart; it
is only then that the true significance of that placement can be appreciated in relation to
the broader pattern of an individual’s being and becoming. However, as a step or aid in
the process of ultimately synthesizing all the important factors in the horoscope, this
part of the book explores the possible interpretations of the different planets and signs
through the houses. The suggested meanings are by no means conclusive, nor are they
intended to be taken as gospel. It is hoped, however, that the information given (most of
which is drawn from personal experience) will generate further thought and insight into
the various and numerous ramifications of each placement.

General Guidelines for Interpreting Planets in the Houses
What exactly does a planet (or planets) situated in a house show or suggest? To answer
this, we need to recall that the astrological birthchart portrays symbolically how an
individual’s drives and urges are apt to express themselves. Like the seed of a plant or a
tree, it contains a blueprint of what the fully developed person could grow into or
become. The chart tells us something about the nature of the seed, as well as offering
some general indications about the process of the seed’s unfoldment. On this basis, the
birth map can be understood as a set of instructions showing how a person can most
naturally actualize his or her potential.
   
Bearing this principle in mind, we can infer three basic guidelines for interpreting a
planet in a house:

1. When a planet is located in a house, the function or activity represented by the planet
finds its most natural area of expression in the field of experience referred to by that
house. The sign in which the planet is placed gives further information about how this
activity can be approached.
2. The reverse is also true: the area of life designated by the house in which a planet
falls is most naturally dealt with and handled in accordance with the type of activity
represented by the planet there.
3. A planet in a house also shows the nature of the archetypal principle we are born



already expecting to encounter through that area of life or facet of experience. It is the
kind of energy we are innately predisposed to perceive or meet in that domain. It is the
a priori image of that sphere of life which exists right from birth.

General Guidelines for Interpreting Signs in the Houses
Sign placements are slightly more complicated than planetary placements in
relationship to the houses. Firstly, there will always be a particular degree of a certain
sign on the cusp or beginning point of each house. In the example shown in Figure 15,
11 degrees of Cancer is on the cusp of the 1st house; 29 degrees of Cancer on the cusp
of the 2nd house; 20 degrees of Leo on the cusp of the 3rd house, etc. We would then
associate the principles of Cancer with what the 1st house represents; the principle of
Cancer will also influence the 2nd house (even though only one degree of Cancer
remains in the 2nd it is still associated with that house because of its cuspal position
there); the principles of Leo would operate in the 3rd house, etc.
   
However, if we look closely, we will see that there is a variety of ways in which a sign
may appear in a house:

Fig. 15 Eliot, born 29 April 1953, 09:00 CET (-1), Florence, Italy (43N46, 11E15)

1. Some portion of a sign may be in a house even if it is not on the cusp of the house. In
the example chart, Cancer is on the cusp of the 2nd, but much of the sign of Leo is there
as well. Therefore, the 2nd house will be associated not only with a Cancer influence



but also with a Leo influence. Usually the influence of the sign on the cusp is
considered more important even if more of the next sign is present in that house.
2. If, as in the case of the Quadrant systems of house-division, the same sign falls on
two successive house cusps, then all of another sign will be intercepted in another
house. This means that a house begins with one sign on the cusp, has the next sign
intercepted or totally contained within the house, and has the following sign completing
the house. There are then three signs influencing an intercepted house (again the sign on
the cusp is usually the most important influence). In the example chart, Cancer and
Capricorn are both on the cusp of two houses (the 1st and 2nd, and 7th and 8th
respectively). Consequently we can look for other houses with intercepted signs. In this
case, the 5th house begins with 23 degrees of Libra on the cusp, has all of Scorpio
intercepted in it, and ends with the first few degrees of Sagittarius. A similar situation
exists with the opposite signs in the opposite house, the 11th.

The guidelines for interpreting a sign (or signs) in a house are similar to those for
interpreting a planet in a house, except that it should be remembered that the sign on the
cusp of the house is considered more important than other signs that might be in that
house:

1. The sign or signs in a house find their most natural area of expression in the field of
experience referred to by that house.
2. The sign or signs in a house indicate the types of experiences which allow the native
to best realize his or her potential in that field of life.
3. The sign or signs in a house also suggest what kind of archetypal energies the person
is predisposed to expect in that area of life.

House Rulerships
There is another factor to be considered in analysing the influence of planets and signs
in the houses. When a planet is located in a certain house there is a connection between
the affairs of that house and the house or houses in which the sign(s) that the planet in
question rules is placed. For instance, in the example chart, Venus is in the 10th house;
but because Venus is the ruler of both Libra and Taurus, the 10th house Venus will have
an influence on the houses in which Libra and Taurus are found. In this case, Libra is
associated with the 4th house (23 degrees of that sign is there) and the 5th house (the
23rd degree of Libra is on the cusp). All of Taurus is intercepted in the 11th. So, Venus
in the 10th house (career), through its rulership of Libra and Taurus, will have bearing
on the 4th house (home), the 5th house (children) and the 11th house (groups). This
man has worked (10th) running groups (11th) in his own home (4th) geared to helping
parents relate better (Venus) to children (5th).
   
To sum up: a planet has an influence on

1. The house in which it is placed.



2. The house on whose cusp is found the sign that planet rules.
3. The house in which any number of degrees of the sign the planet rules is found (even
if the sign the planet rules is not on the cusp).

Generally, the weighting of the influence of the various factors can be taken in the order
given above.

Empty Houses
Over and over again when teaching astrology to beginners I hear the question ‘What
does it mean if a house is empty?’ Some students are very troubled by empty or
untenanted houses – that is, a house in which no planets are found. ‘My 5th house is
empty – does that mean I won’t have any children?’; ‘my 3rd house is empty – does this
mean I don’t have a mind?’

Because there are only ten planets to go around the twelve houses, invariably certain
houses will be untenanted. This does not mean that nothing is happening in that area of
life. Nor does it necessarily imply that the area of life in question is unimportant.

Strictly speaking it is incorrect to say that a house is empty. Even though there may
be no planets in that house, there is still a sign (or signs) placed there which will
influence that sphere of experience. Thus, the first step in interpreting what is
happening in an untenanted house is to relate the qualities of the sign or signs found
there to the area of life associated with the house in question. The second step is to refer
to the planet which rules the sign on the cusp of the ‘empty’ house. What house is the
ruling planet in? What sign is the ruling planet in? How is the ruling planet aspected? In
this way, we glean a great deal of information about the house in question. The third
step is to examine the planet which rules any other signs found in that house (not just
the sign on the cusp). Where is that planet by house, sign and aspect?

In the example chart, the 6th house is empty. Following the three steps outlined
above, much can be learned about that house. Sagittarius is on the cusp of the 6th
house: on one level, this could mean that Eliot should develop skills (6th) of a
Sagittarian nature – techniques for expanding or broadening the vision of other people,
for instance. The ruler of Sagittarius is Jupiter, which is placed in the 11th house of
groups. The group setting could then be an appropriate place to employ his skills (ruler
of the 6th in the 11th). Since Jupiter is in Taurus and conjunct Mars, his temperament is
suited to leading (Mars) the groups he might establish (Taurus). But we mustn’t forget
that Capricorn is also in the 6th house. Therefore, Saturn’s position in the chart will
exert an influence in relation to the 6th house as well. Saturn is in Libra very close to
the 4th/5th house cusp. Again, we have the idea that the work (6th) might take place in
the home (Saturn in the 4th ruling Capricorn in the 6th). Saturn is so near to the 5th
house cusp that it could also have some bearing on that house. One of the associations
with the 5th is that of children, so we are back to a connection between work (6th)
possibly being linked to children in some way (Saturn near the 5th house cusp rules
Capricorn in the 6th). We have previously arrived at the same interpretation through
examining Venus in the 10th and its influence (see page 109). Anything which is



important in the chart will usually manifest in a number of ways; this is sometimes
called ‘the rule of three’.

Obviously, a house with many planets in it is very important, but we should not
overlook the significance of so-called empty houses. Should the planet ruling the sign
on the cusp of an empty house be the focal point for a particular chart shaping, such as
the handle to a bucket type chart or the leading planet of a locomotive shaping, then the
affairs of the house in question could figure prominently in the native’s life. The empty
house might also contain the missing element to a T-square and this would increase the
relevance of that area of life in contributing to the overall balance of the person’s
psyche.

Packed Houses
A house may contain more than one planet. Indeed, some houses are ‘packed’ – that is,
three, four or even more planets may fall within one house. In this case, each of the
principles, urges, drives or motivations suggested by the different planets will be
expressing itself through that area of life. Obviously, should the nature of the planets be
contradictory, such as the expansive effects of Jupiter versus the cautious and limiting
effects of Saturn, then that sphere of life will be met with greater tension and
complexity. Any house containing two or more planets will assume extra significance in
the person’s life-plan or purpose.

Planets Near House Cusps
Generally, if a planet falls a few degrees before the end of a house and therefore close to
the cusp of the next house, its effect may be felt in both spheres – in its own house as
well as in the house which it is near. The orb of influence can even be slightly increased
to roughly five degrees, providing that the sign the planet is in is the same sign as the
next house cusp.

The sphere of experience associated with one house naturally leads to the next. A
planet at the end of a house, and just prior to the cusp of the next, may bring the
junction point of these two areas of life into focus. For instance, if Venus is near the end
of the 6th house and close to the 7th house cusp, a person may fall in love with and
marry (7th) someone he or she has met through a working situation (6th). If Mercury is
between the 10th and 11th houses, professional connections (10th) may develop into
friendships or contacts with new groups of people (11th).

The astrologer is so often working with an estimated or approximate birth-time that a
planet near the cusp of a house might actually belong to the adjacent house. Likewise,
given the kinds of discrepancies which occur depending on which house system is used,
a planet near a cusp in one system may fall in the neighbouring house in another
method. For these reasons, some astrologers believe that a planet placed in the middle
of a house has the most reliable influence because it is so firmly established in that
domain.

Inequality of Houses



In Quadrant systems of house-division, unless the birth is on the equator, the houses
will be of unequal size (especially for births in extreme northern or southern latitudes).
Some houses may span sixty degrees while others may be as small as fifteen degrees or
less. Many students enquire whether bigger houses are more important. To some extent,
this is probably true since transits (the ongoing daily motion of the planets) will spend a
longer time in the larger houses than the smaller houses, thereby stirring the affairs of
that area of life for a more extended duration. However, a small house, especially if
there are two or more planets in it, can still have an important influence. Even
untenanted, the ruler of the sign on the cusp of a small house might be significant by
placement or aspect and in that way emphasize the affairs of the house in question.
Also, though planets transiting through the smaller houses spend less time there, they
often ‘do their job’ in a more condensed and concentrated way, driving lessons home
harder and faster.

Intercepted Signs
Students also ask whether signs which are intercepted (not on a house cusp but
surrounded entirely by a house) are less important than signs on the cusp of the house.
The sign on the cusp is generally more important, but the intercepted sign will
definitely be felt in relation to the affairs of that house. The effects of planets in
intercepted signs appear to be as strong as planets in the other signs. Some astrologers
claim that when a sign is intercepted its nature is introverted or directed inward. I have
not found this particularly to be the case.
   
Bearing these general guidelines in mind, we will now examine more specifically the
implications of the different signs and planets in the twelve houses, as well as a
discussion of the Moon’s nodes and the recently discovered Chiron in this respect. In
the main, in order to save space and avoid repetition, except for the
Ascendant/Descendant axis (or 1st and 7th house cusps), I have not examined
separately the meaning of each sign in a house. However, the reader should remember
that the significance of a particular planet in a house is similar to the influence that the
sign it rules has on a house. For instance, if you have Cancer on the cusp of the 8th (or
contained in the 8th) then you can read the section headed the Moon in the 8th to learn
more about the way in which Cancer in the 8th might operate. Or if you have Pisces on
the cusp of the 5th, then you can refer to the section headed Neptune in the 5th to glean
how the closely related principle of Pisces might evince itself in that house.

Also, there is the problem that any aspects to a planet in a house from other planets
in other houses will modify the effect of the planet and house combination in question.
For instance, if Venus is in the 7th we might expect an ease and receptivity in
partnership. But if Saturn in the 4th, let’s say, should square the 7th house Venus, then
the expression of Venus will be tempered by the nature of Saturn. Occasionally, I make
a distinction between a well-aspected planet in a house or an adversely aspected planet
in a house. Please keep in mind that it is not necessarily the case that a difficultly
aspected planet will manifest in a negative way, although it may require more effort or



struggle to use the adversely aspected planet constructively. For further insight into how
stressful aspects can be used productively, the reader is referred to Christina Rose’s
excellent book Astrological Counselling (Aquarian Press, Wellingborough, 1982). As
she articulately reminds us:

Behind every aspect (as with everything in the birth chart) stands the individual
himself. His outlooks, philosophies, conditioning and experience so far in his life
will all bear upon the way the aspect functions; it is he who lives it, or is seeking
to live it, and his actual experience may not read exactly like a textbook
interpretation. (page 87)



17.

ASCENDANT TYPES

The sign on the Ascendant informs us of the qualities we should consciously strive to
manifest in the process of self-discovery and unfoldment. However, it would be
misleading to consider just this sign alone, and not take into account the meaning of the
opposite sign which will fall on the Descendant or 7th house cusp. While the Ascendant
is the point of self-awareness, the Descendant is the point of awareness of others. We
find ourselves through the Ascendant, but the Descendant is what we find in others.
What rises above the horizon and into the light of consciousness (the Ascendant) is
complemented by what sinks beneath the horizon into the dark (the Descendant). When
I consciously identify certain qualities as ‘who I am’, then implicitly there are other
qualities which I am identifying as ‘not-me’. The qualities I identify as ‘me’ are shown
by the Rising sign; the qualities I identify as ‘not-me’ are shown by the Descending
sign.

But the name of the game is wholeness: what we do not ‘own’ in ourselves, we will
invariably attract to us. The more we develop those attributes on the Ascendant, the
more we will meet the opposite attributes of the Descendant in others. The two points of
the Ascendant and Descendant form a coupling or polarity which are inextricably
linked. None of us exists in a vacuum, and our sense of self (Ascendant) will be
reshaped by what we meet through others (Descendant). The nature of the Descending
sign will attempt to modify and balance the qualities of the Ascendant until a stalemate,
a compromise or a synthesis is achieved. Therefore, in discussing the significance of the
Rising sign, some understanding of the implications of the Descending sign are
included.

Aries on the Ascendant and Libra on the Descendant
With the fiery sign of Aries rising, the person should meet life in a straightforward and
energetic manner: ‘Here I am, notice me, now let’s get things started.’ There is a need to
be decisive, take action, and ‘own’ the power to create and direct the life. The core of
Aries rising is finding this creative potency within, not waiting around for things to
happen. Life is best viewed as an adventure, quest and challenge. If other placements in
the chart indicate a meek or withdrawn nature, there will be more struggle in
developing the Aries qualities. If the Aries Ascendant is denied expression, the inner
frustration which accumulates could periodically explode in illness, dramatic or wild
outbursts, unruly fits of anger, or other forms of self-destructive behaviour. If the rest of
the chart is already fairly fiery, the Aries Ascendant allows the assertiveness to flow
freely, but with the danger of being too forceful or overly egocentric – which in the end
may be self-defeating.



If Aries is rising then the opposite sign, Libra, will be on the Descendant, beckoning
the person to balance rampant autonomy with some degree of consideration for another
person. However, if those with this Ascendant have to choose one extreme or the other,
it is probably wiser that they err in favour of self-assertion and daring rather than hold
back too much for the sake of keeping the peace or adapting to the requirements of
others. After their own power has been found and the courage to be the self is freed,
then they can learn to regulate, adjust and temper the nature accordingly. Ultimately, the
Libran qualities of grace, forethought and consideration for another person’s case and
point of view will need to be included.

Physically, Aries rising may evince a lively, energetic face with intense but darting
eye-contact. Movements are usually quick and impulsive, as if the person is ready at
any moment to plunge headlong into some new activity. ‘Don’t stand in my way’ may
be the message subtly (or not so subtly) communicated to others.

The controversial writer, Henry Miller, author of a number of books which were
banned in America, had Aries rising with its ruler Mars in Scorpio in the 7th. Sexual
adventures and exploits (Mars in Scorpio in the 7th) were integral to his daring voyage
of self-discovery (Mars rules the Aries Ascendant).

Taurus on the Ascendant and Scorpio on the Descendant
If Taurus, a fixed earth sign, is on the Ascendant, then life needs to be met more slowly
and steadily. Rather than rushing into things, Taurus rising should plan, structure and
work systematically towards its goals. The fixity of this sign on the Ascendant suggests
that the person may need to hold onto or remain in one phase of experience much
longer than Aries rising types. The danger is becoming too lazy or indolent and staying
with something purely out of habit, attachment, and security when it has truly outlived
its purpose or usefulness. It will be necessary for the Taurus rising to learn when to hold
on and when to let go.

Those with Taurus rising also have a need to feel comfortable with the earthy and
material sphere of life, and to see concrete and tangible results for their efforts. A
sensible regard for the body and its requirements should be developed. Being too driven
or ruled by the instincts is not the ideal, but cutting the self off from the basic instinctual
nature is not a healthy situation either.

When Taurus is ascending, then Scorpio is found on the Descendant. This means that
strong and intense emotions (Scorpio) will be evoked in the sphere of relationship.
Jealousy and possessiveness can be the root of many interpersonal problems, and those
with Taurus rising will have to confront, examine and gain greater mastery over the
destructive side of their emotional nature. In other words, Scorpio on the 7th house cusp
forces them to look inward, to probe hidden motivations and underlying causes in order
to transform the way they use their power. The Scorpio Descendant does not allow them
to take life at face value. Through relationship problems they are jarred from their
lethargy and periodically required to cleanse and eliminate what they have stored up
inside, changing old and outworn habit patterns.

I have noticed two different physical types associated with Taurus on the Ascendant.



The more usual embodiment of this sign is solid, earthy-looking, and heavy-set: a
healthy, ‘country’ look just right for ‘a roll in the hay’ or a Falstaffian appearance, often
with the characteristically thick Taurean neck. On the other hand, some Taurus rising
individuals exhibit a more delicate and chiselled look, emphasizing the aesthetic side of
the Venus rulership of the sign. The actress Vivien Leigh (famous for her role as
Scarlett O’Hara in Gone With The Wind) is an example of this type: she was born with
Taurus rising and Venus, its ruler, in Libra.

Percy Bysshe Shelley, the English lyric poet described as fragile and delicate, also
had Taurus rising and its ruler Venus in the 5th house of creative expression. Walt
Whitman, with his rich appreciation of life and nature, had Venus rising in Taurus.

Gemini on the Ascendant and Sagittarius on the Descendant
If Gemini is rising, life should be met with inquisitiveness, curiosity, and the desire to
figure out how people and things work. Versatility and adaptability are two of Gemini’s
assets, but can give rise to too many diverse interests and the ‘jack of all trades and
master of none’ syndrome. This Ascendant hates to lose alternatives and being
committed to just one thing means excluding so many others.

Developing the ability to communicate through writing, speaking or any other form
of exchanging ideas contributes to their sense of identity as well as increasing their
impact on the environment. In some way, they are meant to distribute information –
picking up certain ideas or attitudes in one place and then depositing and applying these
in other areas. If the rest of the chart is of an earthy or watery nature, the ability to be
analytical, detached and objective is even more of a pressing need. However, if the rest
of the chart is already airy and fiery, then this Rising sign adds to the restlessness of the
nature and the difficulty in staying in one place long enough to truly deepen the
understanding of that sphere or to become a real authority in that area. There is the
danger of too quickly ‘going into the head’ and losing touch with the body and feelings.

If Gemini is rising, then Sagittarius is found on the 7th house cusp. Through a
relationship, they are offered another person’s philosophical frame of reference through
which to understand, explore and interpret life. The best partner is someone who can
counter-effect Gemini’s tendency to become lost in a maze of ideas or a web of
inconsequentials. The broader vision and aspirations of Sagittarius help Gemini rising
maintain a sense of direction and goal, rather than being constantly side-tracked. In
short, other people often provide the sense of overall purpose which the Gemini
Ascendant cannot find on its own.

Gemini rising is often embodied in a lithe, agile physique with slender hands, which
when not busy gesticulating are clever at taking something apart and putting it back
together again. The person may literally be ‘of two minds’ about many situations and
even look like different people at different times. Often they are adept at impersonating
others.

George Bernard Shaw, who used his acute mind and literary ability to promote his
philosophical and social beliefs, is a good example of the Gemini Ascendant/Sagittarius
Descendant combination. Vance Packard, the author of The Hidden Persuaders and The



Status Seekers, also used his fact-finding Gemini Ascendant to detect and expose the
broader trends (Sagittarius) at work in contemporary society.

Cancer on the Ascendant and Capricorn on the Descendant
With Cancer on the Ascendant, greater self-realization is achieved through a
sophisticated attunement to the feeling nature. Some people with Cancer rising
(especially if the rest of the chart is predominantly watery, or if Neptune is strongly
figured) are so emotionally vulnerable and exposed that they learn to protect themselves
by developing a hard outer shell. Their task is to find ways of using their sensitivity
rather than being overwhelmed by it. Others with Cancer rising (if the rest of the chart
shows a great deal of air or earth) may be unaware of just how much is teeming under a
cool and collected surface. This type will attract experiences which underline the need
to acknowledge, respect and free the feelings.

The nature of the crab provides an apt description of the Cancer Ascendant. Besides
being ready at a moment’s notice to withdraw back into its shell, the crab has a way of
approaching situations sideways, reflecting the non-confronting nature of this Rising
sign. The crab is not comfortable all the time in the water, so it ventures out onto land,
but then retreats back into the water again. Cancer rising also exhibits a two-steps-
forward, one-step-backward dance-like ebb and flow. Cancer on the 1st house should
learn to respect and ‘go with’ an internal and organic sense of their own timing and
rhythm. In this respect, they are capable of ‘tuning into’ the cyclic nature of life. And
yet there is a tenacity to the crab; its grasping claws do not easily relinquish what it
holds onto. Those with Cancer rising cling to their feelings – be they joy or pain – and
won’t easily relinquish them until a stronger feeling overtakes. Explanations, reasons
and rationalizations, while making perfect sense to an air sign rising, won’t get you very
far with the crab, and may even be turned against you.

The sign of Cancer is associated with the womb and breasts. The breasts provide the
nourishment to sustain new life, and the womb provides the perfect environment in
which something can grow. If Cancer is on the Ascendant, the person grows in self-
awareness through developing qualities of nurturing and caring. Whether it’s through
fostering a family, a business project, or a strongly felt cause, Cancer rising blossoms
and ‘comes into its own’. However, if they shun any active version of the mother role,
then they have a way of flipping to the other side: that is, looking for others to play
mother to them. An over-identification with the mother, a tendency to stay too long
within the womb of the family of origin, or a persistent search for the Ideal Mother they
lost or never had, are some of the issues which may manifest with Cancer rising.

The opposite sign of Capricorn will be found on the 7th house cusp, and evokes
those qualities which balance the extremes of Cancer. Those with Cancer rising may be
flooded and swept away by upsurges of emotion and feeling, but maintaining a
relationship demands that they discriminate between which emotions are appropriate
and useful and which should be filtered or kept under control. Through partnership, a
structure (Capricorn) is built, into which the otherwise random and chaotic feelings of
Cancer can flow. They may enact their own need to achieve in the world through



helping another person to become successful and established (Capricorn on the 7th).
With this placement, a partner is sought who will offer security, strength and stability.
At some point, however, Cancer rising will need to find these qualities from within,
rather than importing others to provide them.

This Ascendant often has the characteristic ‘moon face’ – round, receptive and
pleasing. Often there is a soft, fleshy appearance with a propensity to put on weight or
retain fluids. The upper part of the body may be out of proportion to the rest of the
torso.

The Austrian composer Franz Schubert was born with Cancer rising, and its ruler,
the Moon, in Pisces in the 10th: an apt configuration for a man who expressed so much
feeling through his career in music. Vincent Van Gogh had Cancer on the Ascendant
with the Moon square to Neptune, Mars and Venus. His erratic life is a good example of
the extremes of sensitivity and emotional chaos associated with this Rising sign.

Leo on the Ascendant and Aquarius on the Descendant
Leo rising creates a world in which the need to develop power, authority and creative
expression are requisite to gaining a sense of individual selfhood. The house position of
the Sun will designate the specific area of life through which this Ascendant can most
naturally discover his or her own unique and special identity. It will be in that sphere
that this person will seek love, admiration, applause and effectiveness.

However, for some with Leo rising, being effective is confused with being affective.
Self-display, showiness and extravagant gestures are, in Leo’s case, fuelled and
prompted by the pressing need to be somebody and to feel important. Anything is better
than just being ordinary. Those with Leo rising are preoccupied with something with
which all of us are at some time concerned – emerging as an individual in our own
right.

There is the danger that they might meet the world with too much pride. Some are
born expecting to be treated like royalty; but they must be prepared to make an effort to
earn the desired respect and status rather than angrily or hastily turning away if glory is
not bestowed on them unquestioningly. Sometimes they are afraid or they hesitate to try
to prove themselves just in case they should fail. Those who don’t manage to develop a
healthy outlet for their personal power or creativity sometimes do turn bitter and cynical
at the world for not recognizing their genius.

Leo is associated with the heart centre in the body, and the sign has an enormous
amount of love to give. Grand gestures aside, Leo rising, like the Sun, can bestow a
generous warmth, healing and life-giving energy to those on the receiving end.
However, this Ascendant will usually expect something in return, some sort of grateful
acknowledgement for all that they have done. A turning point is reached when Leo
rising can give without asking for anything back.

While it is crucial for those with Leo on the Ascendant to develop a healthy sense of
their own power, authority and worth, Aquarius on the Descendant means that they will
be confronted by people or situations which urge that life be viewed from a perspective
other than that of the personal self. The individual can still be respected but must



consider the requirements of the larger system of which he or she is a part. Aquarius on
the 7th suggests that one-to-one relationships are a training ground for the sharing and
promoting of common goals, thus neutralizing the possibly overly self-centred or
egotistical slant of Leo on the 1st. In order to maintain a lasting relationship in which
the personality of either party is not quashed, the fire and passion of Leo rising needs to
be cooled and contained (but not extinguished) by the airy objectivity and fairness of
Aquarius.

Former world heavyweight champion Muhammad Ali was born with Leo rising and
its ruler, the Sun, in the 6th. He achieved his sense of greatness and individual worth
(Leo on the 1st) through his skilful technique (6th) in the domain of work. The
psychologist Anne Dickson, an adept teacher of assertiveness skills, is the author of A
Woman In Your Own Right, an aptly named book for someone with Mars conjunct the
Ascendant in Leo and the ruling Sun in the 10th house of career.

Physically, Leo on the Ascendant often manifests in a powerful and proud bearing
which commands attention. Depending on the aspects to the Sun, there is sometimes the
characteristic ‘sunny’ face and luminous, sparkling eyes.

Virgo on the Ascendant and Pisces on the Descendant
With Virgo rising, the birth into individual selfhood comes through mental analysis,
discrimination, self-criticism and the process of defining the self more and more
specifically. Often this entails developing greater skill and proficiency in the chosen
field of work or area of creative expression. As an earth sign, there is the need to
employ knowledge purposefully, to be useful, productive and of service.

Virgo on the Ascendant draws attention to the physical body and the concern for its
smooth functioning. The practical management of the mundane necessities of daily life
is also an issue for this sign rising.

Virgo in this position can be associated with what might be called ‘the proper
assimilation of experience’. Experience, like food, needs to be chewed over and then
digested. Catabolic processes in the body separate what is valuable and worth
integrating from what is toxic and poisonous. Virgo rising should apply this process to
the digestion of life-experience. Through analysing the self and life in general, they can
extract from experience whatever is most conducive to their well-being. What is not
constructive must be acknowledged and recognized but ultimately cleared out and
eliminated. Holding onto such things as negativity and resentment for too long means
that the psyche, and sooner or later the body, becomes clogged, weakened and
poisoned.

With Virgo rising, there is the danger of becoming so obsessive about order,
correctness and precision that a person loses touch with spontaneity and flow. Where
Virgo boxes itself in and becomes overly tight and rigid, Pisces appears in one form or
another to say ‘relax, let go, relinquish control, and let yourself indulge occasionally’.
Pisces on the Descendant encourages Virgo rising to relate with others more
compassionately and with a greater degree of sacrifice and acceptance than judgemental
and critical Virgos usually allow themselves. Through the Pisces Descendant, Virgo



rising gains the kind of understanding that dawns when the heart is open and receptive.
There is more to life than just that which can be measured, compartmentalized and
tested.

Virgo on the Ascendant usually gives a neat, wiry body, capable of efficient and
economical movements. Often the person looks considerably younger than the actual
age, and a youthful appearance is retained even in the later years. The placement by
sign, house and aspect of its ruling planet Mercury, will shed more light on the person’s
appearance as well as his or her major focus of interest. For instance, Jerry Rubin, a
1960s political activist, has Virgo rising with critical Mercury in the 11th house of
social reform. Walter Koch, the astrologer and mathematician who painstakingly
developed the complex and intricate system of house-division which bears his name,
was born with the Sun, Moon, and Venus all rising in Virgo and Mercury in the 1st
house.

Libra on the Ascendant and Aries on the Descendant
Whereas Aries rising calls for wilful, decisive and self-assertive action, Libra on the
Ascendant requires deliberation and carefully chosen action based on an objective and
fair assessment of any situation. In other words, what others need or want will have to
be taken into consideration. Reflective judgement is a keynote for this Ascendant:
various alternatives are weighed in the balance, and the most appropriate mode of being
or acting is selected. However, the capacity to see another person’s point of view as
well as the ability to look at any situation from all its sides can be crippling to action.
Hence the vacillation, the indecisiveness, and the sitting-on-the-fence reputation of
Libra rising.

Choices are more easily made if we have a system of values on which to base them.
The responsibility to establish a set of values, standards and ideals upon which action
can be gauged rests heavily on the shoulders of this Ascendant. It would be so easy just
to let another person decide for them. And even if Libra rising bases its actions on what
is believed to be true and just, is there any guarantee that it will all work out beautifully
in the end? A friend of mine is an avid sun-worshipper. On those rare days when the sun
shines clearly and brightly in England, rather than spending the day at home in her back
garden, she acts on her better judgement and dutifully drives to the office. As a reward
we might reasonably expect that ‘the gods’ should smile down on her for such an
honourable decision. But why does it always rain on her day off? Libra rising must
learn to make choices and then take the consequences for them.

Libra rising also means striking a balance between the ‘masculine’ and ‘feminine’
sides of life, between mystical urges and practical notions, between ‘head’ and ‘heart’,
intuition and logic, and most of all between what we want and need and what others
want and need. Libra on the Ascendant searches for the perfect relationship, the ideal
philosophy, and for that which is harmonious and pleasing. There is often an interest in
the arts and an attraction to such abstract systems as politics or mathematics, which
offer symmetry and completeness of concept. Many of Libra rising’s beliefs and ideals
may be too high-minded in relation to the harsher realities of life. At the same time, this



Ascendant can be very critical when something does not meet what is desired or
expected. And those with this placement can be very tough: ‘In the name of harmony
you had better see it my way or else.’ (Could this be Aries creeping in?)

Relationships are important to Libra rising, and needed for personal evolution and
growth. If Libra is on the Ascendant, then Aries is on the Descendant. In one sense,
meeting Aries in the sphere of life associated with the partner elicits Libran qualities. If
a partner is strongly self-centred and assertive (an Aries type), then the Libran
Ascendant will have to learn to adjust and make concessions. However, if the other
person becomes too unfair, pushy and demanding, then Libra rising learns to stand up
for the self and demand the Libran traits of equality and balance. Opposites have a way
of turning into one another. If the Libran Ascendant doesn’t like the way you are
running the show, you will soon know.

Most textbooks attribute Libra rising with physical charm and a well-proportioned
body but with the stipulation that there is a tendency to put on weight due to laziness or
over-indulgence. Air signs on the Ascendant generally have a refined rather than coarse
look about them.

According to baptismal records, Adolf Hitler was born with Libra rising
emphasizing the sometimes overlooked ferocity with which Libra will fight for its
philosophy or political ideals, quashing whatever doesn’t fit into its vision of harmony
and perfection. For the sake of balance, I would cite examples of the many positive
features of the Libra rising temperament in the charts of the sensitive poet Carl
Sandburg with Venus in Pisces in the 5th house of creative expression; and Winston
Churchill, with ruler Venus in the 3rd house of communication.

Scorpio on the Ascendant and Taurus on the Descendant
In the eighth labour of Hercules, the hero has to find and destroy the Hydra, a nine-
headed monster who lives in a cave at the bottom of a murky swamp. At first, he tries to
kill the beast while it is still in the water but every time he cuts off a head, three more
appear in its place. Finally Hercules remembers the advice of his teacher: ‘We rise by
kneeling, we conquer by surrendering, and we gain by giving up.’ He kneels down into
the swamp and lifts the Hydra by one of its heads out of the water and into the air.
Withdrawn from the water, the Hydra immediately begins to lose its power and wilt.
Hercules cuts off all the heads, but a tenth one appears in the form of a precious jewel
which he buries under a rock.

This story is closely related to the dynamics of Scorpio on the Ascendant. In one
form or another, those with Scorpio rising must confront or grapple with that which is
dark, taboo, hidden or destructive. Some will see the beast externally and fight what is
dark and evil ‘out there’. Dr Tom Dooley, the humanitarian dedicated to eliminating
suffering in the world, had Scorpio rising, and Pluto, its ruler, in the 8th. For others, the
Hydra lurks in the depths of their own psyches, symbolizing such destructive emotions
as jealousy, envy, greed, excessive lust or power drives. Sigmund Freud, a Sun Taurus
with Scorpio rising, saw the Hydra in the id – the raw, primitive, instinctual side of our
natures.



Hercules succeeded in slaying the Hydra by lifting it out of the swamp and into the
air. Similarly, Scorpio rising must bring into the light of consciousness what is dark and
hidden inside. If Scorpionic energy is repressed, it seethes underneath, poisoning the
psyche and giving rise to a stench which fouls the atmosphere between people.
However, if the full force of these emotions is released in an unregenerate manner, their
destructive power may be too much to bear.

A third alternative exists. Rather than either repressing the Scorpio side of the nature
or acting it out altogether, it is possible to acknowledge the feelings involved and then
transform or rechannel them more constructively. Like the jewel which appears when
the Hydra is slain, negative complexes can be changed into something precious. Many
artists have produced their best works through redirecting passion, anger or rage into a
creative outlet. Goethe, the great German writer who tempted Faust with the Devil, had
Scorpio rising.

The snake sheds a skin when growth and pressure from the inside renders the old
skin too tight. Volcanic Scorpio rising accumulates internal pressure until an explosion,
release and renewal must occur. By choice or coercion, this sign on the Ascendant
wipes out and removes old forms and structures so that new ones can be built. Gandhi,
Lenin, Mussolini, Stalin and Margaret Thatcher all were born with this Ascendant.

There is a depth to Scorpio rising which compels those who have this placement to
burrow their way to the root of an issue in search of underlying meanings and
motivations. Nothing is taken at face value. Like Bluebeard’s wife, they may open
doors which are better left closed. Scorpio rising draws Taurus on the Descendant to
itself. Where Scorpio must challenge, attack, destroy and change, Taurus is patient,
stable, down-to-earth and preserving. Taurus is equipped to withstand a Scorpio rising’s
onslaught and then calmly interject, ‘Don’t forget darling, dinner is at eight.’ Those
with Scorpio rising need to develop such Taurean qualities in relationship in order to
balance the excesses and extremes of their turbulent and strongly felt passions.

The most obvious physical embodiment of Scorpio rising comes in the form of
intense and piercing eyes set in a noticeably penetrating brow.

Sagittarius on the Ascendant and Gemini on the Descendant
The symbol of Sagittarius is the archer or centaur, usually depicted as a creature half-
human and half-horse. The upper part shows the human torso aiming an arrow into the
heavens, while the lower half, the horse, has its hoofs firmly planted on (or prancing
over) the ground. Precariously balanced midway between the beasts and the gods,
Sagittarius rising evinces this fundamental dilemma in its approach to life. One part of
the nature aspires to great heights, noble ideals and lofty achievements, while another
side is driven by more basic and instinctual animal urges. Can the animal side emulate
the higher vision? The gap between what is and what could be is often painful for
Sagittarius ascending to endure: creative ways to resolve the split need to be found.

Another image associated with Sagittarius is that of the Seeker – there is always
further to go, always something else to chase after and pursue. With this as an
Ascendant, life is best viewed as a journey or pilgrimage. Sometimes the journey itself



is more fun than actually getting there: an old motto for the sign is ‘I see the goal; I
reach the goal and see another.’

As a fire sign situated on an angular house, Sagittarius rising generates heat and
needs an outlet or focus for expressing its energy and enthusiasm. Provided they do not
put people off by making too great a display of themselves, those with Sagittarius rising
have a knack for inspiring others. This Ascendant also has the ability to imbue events in
life with symbolic meaning and importance. Therefore something is not seen as existing
in isolation but is appreciated in relation to a larger truth or principle.

The dangers of this Ascendant are those of inflation, overdoing and extravagance.
Like Icarus, they may fly too high only to crash down to earth later. Some habitually
live beyond their means. Others live too much in the realm of possibilities and never
succeed in grounding their vision in concrete terms. How much a problem this is will
depend on the strength of the element earth or the principle of Saturn in the rest of the
chart.

The house placement of Jupiter, the ruling planet of Sagittarius, may show the area
of life through which they believe fulfilment might come. It is also the domain through
which they can broaden or expand others, or where they might be prone to excesses.

The former astronaut John Glenn has Sagittarius rising and Jupiter in the 9th house
of long journeys. Bob Dylan, the songwriter and singer who inspired a whole
generation, was born with Sagittarius rising and Jupiter in the 5th house of creative
expression.

Gemini on the Descendant is the necessary counterpoint to Sagittarius on the
Ascendant. In the context of a partnership, those with Sagittarius rising can observe at
close range the basic laws and patterns of existence which they have intuited. A
Gemini-type mate is ideal for them. The Geminian mind can find the precise words to
give expression to the broader concepts and feelings of Sagittarius. Gemini can analyse
and question the conclusions of Sagittarius and thereby force the latter to think things
through more thoroughly. Gemini provides Sagittarius with the immediate practical
steps which can be taken in order to realize goals and aspirations. Sagittarius decides it
must get away on holiday, but it is the Geminian part of the self which reaches for the
telephone directory and finds the number of the travel agent. Again, as with the other
Ascendant-Descendant combinations, the Descendant qualities can be imported via
another person or they can be developed within the self in the quest for wholeness.

On the physical level, Sagittarius rising may exhibit a high degree of restlessness.
Sometimes there is the characteristic broad mouth or ‘horsey’ grin, as if it must be that
large to allow room for all they have to say. Because of the expansive nature of this
sign, there can be weight problems when it is placed on the Ascendant.

Capricorn on the Ascendant and Cancer on the Descendant
Saturn, the ruler of Capricorn, has a split personality in mythology. On the one hand, we
hear about him castrating his father and eating his children. In this sense, he represents
a repressive principle – critical, cold and harsh. On the other hand, however, in Roman
mythology he ruled over the Golden Age. The Saturnalia was a festival of licence,



sensuality, abundance and indulgence – the time of the cornucopia.
The qualities of Capricorn on the Ascendant reflect the dual nature of Saturn.

Remembering the general principle that we find ourselves through developing the
qualities of the Ascendant, Capricorn there suggests that an appreciation of these two
sides of life is needed.

The first side of Capricorn is well documented. With this sign rising, there is often
the sense that a stern father watches over them expecting obedience and certain
achievements from his children. The energy and enthusiasm of the previous sign,
Sagittarius, must be used practically and productively and within defined limits. They
cannot just flow or float with whatever comes along or allow themselves to be swept
away by every whim or passion. In order to meet the requirements of the father-in-
oneself, Capricorn rising has to cautiously plan and structure the life, building logically
and slowly towards achieving goals and ambitions. Energy must be carefully measured
out and this calls for discipline and control. Capricorn rules the knees and sooner or
later those with this Ascendant must bend in submission to a higher authority – internal
or external – which expects something of them. Like Job, it is often through hardship
and frustration that Capricorn rising is humbled and learns to accept certain laws, limits
and structures. Like Christ, there may be doubts at the last minute whether the sacrifices
were all worth it.

In short, Capricorn rising needs to ‘make something of the self’ and achieve some
degree of collective validation and respect. They may rebel and try to escape lessons
and responsibilities, but eventually it dawns that they simply feel better if they face
obligations, whether to themselves or others.

What about the other side of Saturn – the deity who ruled over the Golden Age? As a
cardinal earth sign, Capricorn has the capacity to operate very efficiently in the material
world. Through developing their potential adeptness in handling and organizing
practical affairs, Capricorn rising experiences a sense of fulfilment and
accomplishment. Next to Virgo, no other Ascending sign is better capable of creating
order out of chaos than Capricorn, or taking a vision of possibilities and making it real.
And we mustn’t forget the Pan or Satyr side of earthy Capricorn – the capacity to enjoy
the physical senses and the natural world. Perhaps it is because Capricorn rising is so
aware of the harsher realities of life, that they can, by contrast, savour that which is
sensual and beautiful.

Capricorn rising has the feeling and watery sign of Cancer on the Descendant. The
soft-edged, fleshy and rounded image of Cancer opposes and naturally moderates the
rigidity and inflexibility of Capricorn. Capricorn rising may look so tough to the world,
but often runs home to be pampered and mothered by its mate. In spite of an external
hardness or diffidence, those with Capricorn on the Ascendant are unusually sensitive to
the feelings of those close to them and often adapt themselves to meet their partners’
needs. The stern and judging Father is mediated by the all-accepting and protective
Mother. If in one sphere of life we go too far in one direction, life compensates for it in
other places.

Many astrologers believe that Capricorn rising, like good wine, matures or ripens



well, becoming better and happier with time. Physically, Capricorn on the cusp of the
1st often appears fairly wiry and lean, and there is usually something distinctive about
the bone structure in the face. Sometimes, like Pan and his followers, they look a little
devilish.

Machiavelli is an example of the harsher and more stringent side of Capricorn rising.
He used his sensitivity to other people (Cancer on the Descendant) as a means of better
manipulating and controlling situations to his gain. Yehudi Menuhin, the great violinist,
is an example of the side of Capricorn rising which will work hard and discipline the
self to bring gifts and talents to the world (ruling Saturn is in the 7th along with
Neptune, the planet of music).

Aquarius on the Ascendant and Leo on the Descendant
Ironically, those with Aquarius on the Ascendant (the point of self-awareness) gain a
clearer sense of their own unique and particular identity through standing back and
taking an objective and impersonal look at life. Viewing events, people, circumstances
and even themselves from a detached perspective affords them a more global or
complete picture of the plan of things. A greater awareness of ‘the group’ and a
heightened sense of the social context in which they function supersedes a purely
subjective or personal frame of reference.

As discussed under the 11th house, Aquarius is co-ruled by Saturn and Uranus. The
Saturn side of Aquarius rising may look to a group to enhance its own sense of identity
or importance. Along with this comes concerns about belonging to the ‘right’ group,
doing the ‘right’ things, etc. The more Uranian side of Aquarius on the Ascendant,
however, may feel it is inappropriate to conduct the life solely for augmenting or
bolstering personal security or power. Something larger than the individual self needs to
be considered.

On this basis, more than any other Ascending sign, Aquarius rising can act in
accordance with what he or she feels will support or improve the functioning of the
greater whole. The sign of Aquarius has been associated with the myth of Prometheus.
Believing that humankind could be better off than it already was, Prometheus stole fire
from the gods to give to man. Similarly, Aquarius rising can best meet life with a sense
of hope and vision of a new future: a belief that with the application of the right theories
or concepts, circumstances could be improved. But just as Prometheus is punished by
the existing powers for his defiant deed, some modern-day Prometheans may be
condemned, mistreated or even imprisoned for theories or actions which transgress or
threaten the established authority. And yet, it is the nature of life that old structures and
paradigms, when outlived or past their usefulness, give way to fresh patterns and ideas.
Aquarius rising is often in tune with the latest trends and new ideas in the atmosphere.

Usually the ideals associated with Aquarius rising are egalitarian – brotherhood,
sisterhood, solidarity, fairness, equality and justice for all. For these ends, Aquarius on
the Ascendant may assume the cause of segments of society which the existing system
condemns or oppresses. (Abraham Lincoln, reputedly born at sunrise, is believed to
have had Aquarius on the Ascendant.) Sometimes the vision of this Ascendant is too



idealistic and underestimates the force of the more greedy, territorial and acquisitive
nature of people. Similarly, those with this Rising sign are often ill at ease with
irrational and self-centred emotions in themselves or others which conflict with their
noble and utopian theories. Immanuel Kant, the German philosopher who wrote on
ethics and aesthetics, had Aquarius on the 1st. The clear-eyed mystic philosopher
Krishnamurti was born with Aquarius rising and Uranus in the 9th house of higher
understanding.

Leo on the Descendant is the shadow side of Aquarius on the Ascendant. Beneath
the cool objectivity and the egalitarian ideals of Aquarius may lurk the Leo urges for
personal power and recognition. Those with Aquarius rising, with all their love of
equality and freedom, are often attracted to prestigious and influential people. There
may even be a tendency to use others as a means of gaining strength, power and
importance (Leo on the 7th). For all their lack of self-centredness, they may sulk for
hours if somebody makes them look silly at a party. (The other person will probably get
the cold shoulder for days.) Leo feels passionately and intensely and uses its own sense
of self, honour and prestige as a primary frame of reference. To avoid some form of Leo
backlash, either from within or without, Aquarius rising is well-advised not to overly
denigrate the Leo approach to life. With Aquarius, there is the danger that the needs of
the efficiently functioning system will take precedence over the uniqueness, humanness
and creative individuality of those who must fit into it. Taken to extremes, the Aquarian
dream could too easily turn into an Orwellian nightmare.

Physically, Aquarius rising tends towards a broad build with clear, refined, light and
open features. Often there is an electric or magnetic charge in the aura.

Pisces on the Ascendant and Virgo on the Descendant
Pisces rising can embody any of the various manifestations associated with this
complex and elusive sign. Like the two fishes swimming in opposite directions in the
glyph, the urge to form a concrete and solid sense of ego-identity conflicts with those
forces which encourage the dissolution and transcendence of ego-boundaries. The
resolution to this dilemma requires that the person with Pisces rising develop an identity
which does not exclude the awareness of being part of something greater than the self.
Too rigid a personality would make this impossible, and yet too diffuse an identity
would create difficulties in effectively dealing with life. In the former situation, nothing
beyond the ego-boundaries could filter into the awareness, while in the latter case, the
person is overwhelmed by his or her sensitivity and openness. The dangers are
inflexibility on the one hand and chaos and disintegration on the other.

Pisces on the Ascendant may manifest on any of the three levels traditionally
associated with this sign: the victim, the artist or the healer/saviour. The victim does not
cope well with the more difficult realities of the world and seeks an escape route or
crutch – perhaps turning to drugs or alcohol as a way of release. Vague and confused,
Pisces rising may flow with whatever is happening, letting other people make choices
for them. Some may try to escape the net of daily tedium and entrapment within
traditional societal frameworks, turning to crime, underground activity and villainous



behaviour.
However, another expression of this sign on the Ascendant is the artistic type.

Inspired by the imaginal realms of the psyche, the artist channels his or her perceptions
through some sort of medium. The third level, the healer or saviour, dedicates the life to
serving others, endeavouring to make real a vision of life glimpsed in a more expanded
state of consciousness. Pain ‘out there’ in the world is felt as their own pain. On all
three levels, to varying degrees, this Ascendant is taken over by something which
obliterates or supersedes a more mundane existence or limited view of life.

A keynote for Pisces rising is the sacrifice of the personal will. However, if taken to
an extreme, those with this Ascendant may repeatedly set up situations through which
others take advantage of them. Besides being trampled on like the proverbial doormat, a
lack of clear prohibitions and boundaries often means abandoning the self to emotions
and appetites which in the long run are excessive and self-destructive. Virgo on the
Descendant provides the balancing principles of discrimination, common sense and a
healthy respect of caution and limits. Others may need to provide these qualities but
ultimately those with Pisces rising are much better off if they can find such traits within
themselves. Some with this configuration will be so absorbed in spiritual ecstasies or
high-flown missions that they will require partners to manage the more trivial and
mundane necessities of everyday life (Virgo on the 7th). Sometimes the Pisces rising
type will be so idealistic and romantic that unconsciously they are highly critical and
condemning of others (Virgo Descendant) for not living up to their expectations. Others
with Pisces rising derive their identity solely through rescuing or serving others (Virgo
on the 7th).

Physically, Pisces on the 1st may have a dreamy, romantic or mysterious quality in
the face. The eyes may be large and almost like liquid. Often the overall features are
soft and rounded. Like plastic, they can mould their looks into different shapes. In their
manner, they may exude a receptivity and willingness-to-please allure which charms
and seduces others. Sometimes they exhibit such a degree of helplessness that others are
inspired to come to their rescue.

The famous conductor Leopold Stokowski was born with Pisces rising and Neptune,
its ruler, in Taurus in the 2nd house. Pisces on the 1st gives the openness to music, and
Neptune in earthy Taurus in the 2nd enabled him to concretely channel or literally
‘conduct’ his inspiration. Swinburne, the dissolute English poet whose poetic voice in
many ways articulated the Pre-Raphaelite movement, had Pisces rising and Neptune in
the 11th house of groups.

The Ascendant Complex
It has already been mentioned that a number of factors influences the workings of the
Ascendant in addition to what sign is on the 1st house cusp. These include:

1. The ruling planet of the sign on the Ascendant, and its placement by sign, house and
aspects.
2. Planets near the Ascendant (within ten degrees of the cusp either in the 1st or 12th



houses).
3. Aspects to the Ascendant itself.

The Ruling Planet
The planet which rules the sign on the cusp of the 1st house, known as the ruler of the
Ascendant and sometimes referred to as the chart ruler, suggests how the sign on the
Ascendant may seek expression. Its position by sign, house and aspect should be
carefully scrutinized.

For example, if Aries is rising, then Mars is the ruling planet. The elemental
placement of Mars shows what stimulates the Aries rising. Mars in a fire sign is aroused
by something it envisions or intuits. In a water sign, Mars is stimulated by emotions and
feelings. Mars in air is excited by something it contemplates or thinks, while Mars in
earth is motivated by a sense of something practical or concrete to be gained by action.
If Mars is in watery Cancer or Pisces, the physical vitality of the Aries rising is less
obvious than if Mars is in the fiery signs of Aries, Leo or Sagittarius.

The house placement of the ruler of the Ascendant suggests the area of life where
important experiences which directly influence growth and self-discovery are met.
Continuing with Aries rising as an example, the house placement of its ruler Mars will
elaborate on the field of experience which requires the Aries need for action and
decisiveness. If Mars is in the 2nd house, the person should develop greater potency
handling money and the material world. If Mars is in the 3rd house, enhancing self-
expression, communication skills and developing the intellect yield a fuller sense of
self.

Aspects to the ruling planet shed light on the way a person functions as well as the
manner and direction the expression of the Ascendant takes. For example, the quality
and direction of energy exhibited by an Aries rising with Mars conjunct Jupiter will be
very different from the Aries rising with Mars conjunct Saturn.

The size of the 1st house will depend on whether a sign of long ascension or short
ascension is rising relative to the hemisphere in which the person is born, and also on
the house system chosen in setting up the chart. Some people will have a very large 1st
house, sometimes an arc of as much as sixty degrees. They may have one sign on the
Ascendant, another intercepted, and a portion of a third sign leading into the next house.
All of the qualities represented by the signs there will need to be developed in some
way, although the sign on the cusp will carry the most weight. The placement of the
ruling planet of any sign in the 1st house can be examined in the same way as the ruler
of the Ascending sign.

Planets near the Ascendant
Planets on or near the Ascendant (within ten degrees either in the 12th or the 1st)
enhance or modify Ascendant qualities. If Aries is rising, but Neptune is conjunct the
Ascendant, the urge to assert the self is affected by the sensitivity and diffuseness of
Neptune. However, if Jupiter or Uranus should be there instead, the person’s will-power
and directness are increased.



Aspects to the Ascendant
Planets aspecting the Ascendant itself will show whether other qualities in the person
are in harmony or conflict with the type of expression required by the sign on the
Ascendant. For instance, Saturn squaring an Aries Ascendant might suggest that the
person’s fear, caution or reserve (Saturn) inhibits the full force of the Rising sign. If
Saturn opposes the Ascendant, the person may feel restricted by others. Saturn sextile or
trine the Aries Ascendant suggests that the person knows just the right amount of effort
to apply in a given situation and also possesses a good degree of discipline and
practicality to further achieving objectives. In short, both the nature of the planet and
the nature of the aspect need to be taken into consideration to judge its influence on the
Ascendant in question.



18.

THE SUN AND LEO THROUGH THE HOUSES

The symbol for the Sun is a circle with a dot in the middle. The circle, which has no
beginning or end, stands for unboundedness and infinity, and the dot represents the
individual as a separate entity – who has his or her own personal identity and yet is part
of that greater whole. The Ascendant is the path we follow to find who we are, but the
Sun is what we discover or what we seek to become. Through developing the qualities
of the sign the Sun is in, and through encountering the sphere of life designated by its
house placement, we gain a greater sense of our power, purpose and direction in life.

Very simply, the house position of the Sun indicates where we need to distinguish
ourselves in some way – to radiate our influence, shine forth, stand out and be special.
It is the area of life through which we separate from the archetypal Mother, recognizing
our own individual identity rather than remaining fused with the rest of creation. While
the Moon is swayed by deeply embedded instincts and habit patterns from the past, the
Sun has the power to provoke change, to implement choice, and to create fresh
alternatives in the area of the chart in which it is found. Just as the Sun in the heavens is
the centre of our solar system and influences the planets to revolve around it, the
position of the Sun in the birthchart shows where we ought to develop the power to be
self-generating and causal rather than merely reactive.

Like the hero in the world’s myths, the Sun’s house placement is where we have to
fight dragons, confront life, and overcome obstacles and forces which hinder our
advancement and unfoldment. Expanding and developing in the Sun’s domain usually
involves a struggle, which, if successful, enables us to emerge forth with a more solid
and coherent sense of ‘I’.

The significance of the Sun in a house is similar to the influence that Leo has on a
house – whether Leo is on the cusp, intercepted, or completing a house which has
Cancer on the cusp. In the following analysis of the Sun through the houses, a sense of
the meaning of Leo in each house can also be gleaned. (For instance, if you have Leo
on the cusp of the 2nd, or contained in the 2nd, then you can read the section headed the
Sun in the 2nd to learn more about how Leo in the 2nd might manifest.)

Also note that the house with Leo on the cusp (or some or all of Leo contained
within it) will somehow be related to the house in which the Sun is placed. For
example, the French poet Jean Cocteau was born with the Sun in the 3rd house ruling
Leo on the cusp of the 5th. In an effort to communicate his ideas to others (Sun in the
3rd) he explored a wide range of artistic media (Leo on the 5th) including film, verse,
novels, theatre and set design. He kept experimenting with his creative style (5th) in
order to express himself as fully as possible (Sun in the 3rd).



Sun in the 1st
Those born with the Sun in the 1st are born just before sunrise when the creative forces
of day and light are gaining supremacy over the darkness of night. As the Sun edges its
way over the horizon, the planet wakes up – hidden things become visible, greater
activity commences, and people drag themselves out of bed and into the world. The Sun
in this position has an obvious stimulating effect on life and those born at this time
should have a similar impact. These people are meant to influence and catch the
attention of others, to radiate their power in such a way that others are attracted to their
energy and warmth. They should meet life with vigour, enthusiasm and the
determination to make something of themselves. Rather than relying on the family
background to feel important and gain a sense of identity, they need to forge their own
‘place in the Sun’ and be appreciated and respected for what they themselves can do,
create or make happen. These people should not go unnoticed. They require a position
in life which exercises their natural authority and fulfils their desire for recognition.

The constitution should be strong if the Sun is in the 1st, although this will very
much depend on the sign it is in and aspects to it. When the Sun and the Ascendant are
in the same sign, astrologers say that the person is a ‘double Aries’, ‘double Taurus’,
etc. In this case, they usually clearly exemplify and embody the qualities of that sign.
For instance, the great emancipator and advocate of personal freedom, Abraham
Lincoln, was born around sunrise with the Sun and Ascendant in egalitarian Aquarius.
The American television star Ed Asner (formerly the lead in Lou Grant) was born with
the Sun rising in Scorpio. In courageously speaking out against what he felt were
political injustices he could not tolerate (Sun in Scorpio in 1st) he upset the show
business establishment and gravely disrupted his life and career (Scorpio Sun rules Leo
on the 10th house of career and reputation).

If the Sun is well-aspected in the 1st, the influence of the early environment is likely
to be supportive of the person’s desire to express his or her individuality. Usually their
birth will draw much attention, as if to corroborate their need to feel important. A
negative expression of the Sun in the 1st may be an overbearing personality, extreme
egocentricity, and excessive pride. Those who do not manage to express or develop a
healthy outlet for their power and authority may turn bitter and cynical. Rather than
being resentful if their worth is not acknowledged unquestioningly, they should
recognize that admiration and appreciation from others must be earned first.

Sun in the 2nd
If the Sun or Leo is in the 2nd house, this area of life should be met with vitality and
forcefulness: there is a pressing need to develop personal skills, values and resources to
achieve a sense of individuality. They need to find and define what constitutes security
for them, rather than relying on other people to provide safety, money or resources. A
sense of power and self-worth can be gained through acquiring money and possessions
and through the ability to manage and organize the material world. Some may incline
towards status-seeking, showiness and extravagance to prove their value and enhance
an insecure internal identity. They can be generous with money and possessions but



usually expect some sort of recognition in return. Wherever the Sun is, is where the
personal ego is seeking acknowledgement. The impeccable, internationally loved singer
and actor Maurice Chevalier had the Sun in Virgo in the 2nd: he was born in a slum and
died a millionaire.

The nature of whatever planet is in the 2nd house is valued because those qualities
offer us security. Therefore, with the Sun in the 2nd, security comes through developing
and possessing such attributes as strength, nobility, authority, a sense of specialness, and
courage. People with this placement will feel safer in life if they foster these traits,
regardless of how much money is in the bank.

Sun in the 3rd
Rather than just absorbing and reflecting attitudes and influences from the environment,
these people should develop and honour their own thoughts, views and perspective on
things. A sense of value, worth and power comes through strengthening the intellect
and communication abilities. Often they feel the most alive when they are learning
something, or when they can be sharing and exchanging their ideas and knowledge with
others. Those with the Sun in the 3rd (or Leo in this house) need to feel heard and to be
noticed in the immediate environment. Consequently, rivalry with siblings and
competitiveness among peers could be issues worth investigating. Some may project
their own need for power and authority onto a brother or sister. Or knowledge itself is
worshipped like the Sun. Difficult aspects to the Sun in the 3rd could indicate problems
with early schooling. These will need to be examined if learning is to proceed
unfettered. No matter how clever or articulate the 3rd house Sun appears to others,
those with this placement normally feel that they could still know more or communicate
better. The American writer Philip Roth, author of many best-selling books and known
for his repartee and quick wit, was born with the Sun in the 3rd. The Nobel Prize-
winning author George Bernard Shaw, who espoused his personal philosophy through
his writing, was born with the Sun in Leo in this house.

Sun in the 4th (and Leo on the IC)
Those with the Sun in the 4th need to delve deep inside to find themselves. What is
achieved in the outer world is perhaps less important than what is accomplished in
terms of soul-growth and inner spiritual development.

The struggle to define the self rages on the home front. They need to distinguish
their own individual identity as distinct from the family background without denying
that they are also part of the family. On one side, the danger is deriving the identity too
much from the ancestry and becoming just a replica of what it represents or how it has
shaped them. On the other side, however, there is the danger of totally rejecting the
background altogether as a means of freeing themselves from its imposition. The first
instance denies their own uniqueness and originality; the second denies their ‘fate’ –
their biological and psychological roots. The task at hand is somehow combining the
two: acknowledging their heredity and links with the family of origin, and yet at the
same time developing an identity in their own right. They may carry something of the



tradition of the family, and yet do it in their own way.
If the 4th house is taken to be the father, energies here may be experienced through

the father or projected onto him. Those with the Sun in this house might have
experienced the father as so powerful and authoritative that they subsequently cannot
surmount a crippling sense of their own smallness or inferiority. They may have to do
battle with the father to sever the hold he has on them. In other cases, the father may
have been physically or psychologically absent. For the boy-child this could mean that
there wasn’t a clear sense of a father upon which to model his own masculine qualities.
These would have to be found from within the self. For the girl-child, the experience of
the absent father could entail a lifetime search for the lost father. She, too, would
ultimately need to ‘find’ father qualities inside.

There is a strong need to own their own homes where they can exercise authority and
influence. Sometimes there is a prolonged search for the right place to root.

The Sun in the 4th suggests that they come more into their own in the second half of
life. A renewed sense of creative potency, vitality, and the joys of self-expression are
potentially available in the later years.

The nature of the Sun in the 4th is similar to Leo on the IC. A deep need to express
their own unique and special identity is the foundation upon which much of the life is
built.

Sun in the 5th
The Sun is strongly placed in the 5th, its natural domain. For those with this placement,
a sense of identity, power and purpose in life is found through wholeheartedly engaging
in activities which make them feel good about being alive. The need to give expression
to the self is vital to physical and psychological health and people become ill and
depressed if they have nothing to live for. Of course, they also fall sick if they are trying
to pack too much in. It is not a case of how much the 5th house Sun can do, but rather
the quality of the involvement and the degree of satisfaction which is obtained from it.

Some form of artistic expression is advised – not necessarily in order to be another
Mozart (Sun in Aquarius in the 5th) or Matisse (Sun in Capricorn in the 5th), but more
for the sake of freeing the spirit, releasing emotions and feelings, and having the
opportunity to create from inside the self. The richness of life is also enhanced through
hobbies, sporting events, recreational pursuits, trips to the theatre, art galleries, etc.

The ‘playful child’ is alive and well in someone with a 5th house Sun and struggling
to be free. No matter how creative people with this placement may appear to others,
they usually feel they could be better at whatever it is they do. The Sun by nature is
expansive and in the 5th it seeks to express itself more and more and continually
increase its territory of influence. A good example of the spirit of the Sun in the 5th is
Sir Richard Burton, the scholarly English explorer who wrote about his adventures in
exotic lands. His 5th house Sun ruled Leo in the 9th and 10th houses of long journeys
and career.

For those with the Sun in the 5th, love affairs and romance heighten their sense of
participation in life as well as embellishing their feelings of specialness. Producing



children is another way they can bolster their sense of identity as well as extending their
power and influence. There is a danger, though, that a parent with this placement could
attempt to ‘live out’ his or her life too much through a child, projecting unfulfilled
needs for fame and glory onto the offspring. The child might be exhibited like a work of
art in the hopes that what has been ‘produced’ will be praised.

The need to be the centre of attention is very strong with the Sun in the 5th and these
people may be unable to tolerate situations in which all eyes are not focused on them. A
difficultly aspected Sun in this house could resort to devious, manipulative or
exaggerated ways of gaining attention: even negative ‘strokes’ are better than no
‘strokes’ at all.

Sun in the 6th
With the Sun in the 6th, the experiences needed to develop a solid ego-identity revolve
around health, daily ritual and work. Without becoming unduly obsessive, those with
this placement should pay particular attention to matters of self-improvement. Physical
and psychological weaknesses and imperfections are often highlighted in some way so
that necessary adjustments can be made.

First and foremost, they need to form a good relationship to the body – respecting
the physical vehicle is a lesson they sooner or later must learn. Unfortunately, for some,
the recognition of the importance of caring for the body only registers when the
consequences of neglect and ill-treatment have gone too far and manifested in illness.
And yet, even if difficulties do arise in this area, the quest back to health and wholeness
will serve the larger process of individuation more appropriately than other paths. They
also have the ability to enlighten and illumine other people about better ways to
participate in maintaining good health.

Those with the Sun in the 6th should strive to develop skills and abilities which
secure them a useful place in the employment market. A sense of personal worth, value,
and distinction is obtained in this way. They ‘find themselves’ through being of service
to others.

There is a need to organize effective daily rituals and routines which ensure a
smoother running of the life. Learning to function efficiently in practical matters
strengthens the sense of identity. This is not the placement of someone who should just
sit and meditate all day. It is surprising what poignant realizations can dawn scrubbing
the kitchen floor or washing your socks. With the Sun in the 6th, accepting boundaries
and routines empowers a person to perfect and refine the art of living. The end results
of this attitude are not necessarily glaring, but show ever so subtly and tastefully in all
the person does, recalling a Zen saying: ‘Before enlightenment carry water, after
enlightenment carry water.’

Sun in the 7th
When the philosopher Martin Buber wrote that ‘Man becomes an I through a You,’ he
could have been referring to those with the Sun in the 7th. Almost paradoxically, a
sense of their own power, purpose and individuality is found through partnership and



relationship. Participating in joint activities raises issues which enable them to define
who they are more clearly. Through the ups and downs and entanglements encountered
in the attempt to form vital, honest and life-supporting alliances, the identity is shaped
and strengthened. It is a fact of life that something exists more clearly if it can be seen
in relation to something else; likewise, a personality has more meaning when seen in
relation to other personalities. When the Sun shines in Libra’s house, the ‘I’ needs a
‘Thou’.

However, it doesn’t always work this way. In some cases, those with the Sun in the
7th may try to abscond with another person’s identity by finding someone who will be
big and strong for them or who will tell them what to do with their lives. Or they may
be preoccupied with gaining prestige and authority through aligning themselves with an
important or influential figure, or by looking for a hero or heroine they can serve,
worship and forever adore. In a man or woman’s chart, the Sun here can indicate a
search for a ‘daddy’ figure. In short, an attempt is made to ‘live out’ the solar principle
through projecting it onto the partner. This is different to discovering the self via the
help of another. It is also less productive, and often doesn’t succeed for very long.

The 7th house also depicts how we interact with society in general. For the sake of
the individuation process, those with the Sun in the 7th need to be involved with people.
Princess Diana of England, whose marriage to Prince Charles became the focus of
world attention and made her a celebrity in her own right, had the Sun in the 7th. Some
may even find a vocation which deals with the issues of interpersonal relationships –
marriage guidance counselling, for instance, or work which requires skill in arbitration
and diplomacy. Leo on the Descendant is similar in meaning to the Sun in the 7th.

Sun in the 8th
On a deep level, we all yearn to reconnect with something greater than the self.
Although often oblivious to such underlying motivations, those with the Sun in the 8th
seek to expand themselves and transcend their personal limitations and separateness
through some form of union and interchange with other people. This can be achieved in
a variety of ways and on many different levels. For instance, some people with the Sun
here augment their identity, value and worth by drawing to them other people’s money
and possessions. At worst, this is premeditated and conniving (not unlike a formal
invitation to a midnight feast at Count Dracula’s castle). More often, however, it just
happens that other people naturally want to help those with an 8th house Sun – shower
them with gifts, leave them inheritances, bestow grants upon them, etc. Frequently the
urge to invest their energies in joint or collective enterprises brings them into the realm
of business, banking, insurance and anything to do with other people’s money and
resources.

But money and possessions are just the surface level of what is shared and
exchanged between people. Feelings and emotions circulating in the invisible
undercurrents which connect one person to another also demand the attention of an 8th
house Sun. Although these may appear to be the brainchild of a sadistic god who has
watched too many soap operas on television, relationships which expose hidden



passions and trigger the primal emotions of unresolved childhood complexes also serve
the solar processes of growth and unfoldment. Releasing psychic content from the
bondage and repetition of patterns established years before in the nursery, intimate
partnerships act as catalysts for breakdown, regeneration and change. For those with the
Sun in the 8th, relationships are not something to dip a toe into for refreshment every
once in a while; they must learn to swim in these waters. Some may try to avoid real
intimacy altogether, but in doing so they cheat themselves of transformation.

The 8th house Sun usually bestows an interest in that which is hidden, occult, or
mysterious in life. Sometimes there is a fascination or preoccupation with death or any
subject which society considers taboo. The daredevil Evel Knievel who constantly tests
his strength and power performing death-defying stunts was born with the heroic Sun in
this house. The film director, Sam Peckinpah, whose movies expose the more violent
undercurrents of life, has the Sun in Pisces here. Hugh Hefner, the founder of Playboy
magazine, one of the first widely circulated publications to write openly on sex, has the
Sun in Aries in the 8th.

Sun in the 9th
Those with this placement should strive to broaden their understanding and perspective
on life. This can be achieved through travel, extensive reading, flights of the
imagination, or through philosophical enquiry into the ‘whys and wherefores’ of
existence. The capacity to perceive deeper meanings and patterns which operate in the
collective and personal spheres of life, vitalizes and empowers the Sun in this house.

As with any Sagittarian emphasis, life is best viewed as a journey or pilgrimage. In
fact, some may come to believe, like the Spanish writer Cervantes, that ‘the road is
better than the inn.’ Rather than swallowing whole any one belief system, insight
gained through the exploration of different groups, philosophies or religions can be
distilled into a personal vision of the truth. Sharing and exchanging their insights with
others helps them to distinguish themselves.

There is the danger of becoming so overly concerned with ‘the big picture’ and
abstract issues of life that they lose touch with everyday reality. Obsessed with what the
future might bring, an immediate here-and-now participation in life is somehow lost in
the shuffle. They may be so busy planning life and mapping out the future that they
forget to live it. Sometimes they abound with good advice and counsel for others, and
yet never quite manage to apply it to their own predicaments.

This placement suits a variety of vocations. They may excel at public relations work
where they promote a concept or vision to inspire other people. They are adept at
‘selling trips’ – extolling the virtues of an African holiday, for instance, even though
they may have never been there themselves. They make excellent managers and
coaches, directing and organizing others towards achieving some common goal. They
fire others with their enthusiasm and vision, and often spread knowledge through
teaching, writing or publishing.

Sun in the 10th (and Leo on the MC)



With the Sun in the 10th, the identity is bound up with career and professional
achievements. The 10th house describes the qualities in ourselves which we wish others
to notice: in this case, the Sun strives to be seen as emanating power, strength and
authority in respect to the sign in which it is placed. The Sun in Gemini there, for
instance, wants the power of its intellect acknowledged; the Sun in Pisces craves
recognition for its power to heal, enchant, or inspire, etc.

The Sun in the 10th has a deep urge to be admired as ‘a Somebody’. Some degree of
ambition should be ‘owned’ and satisfied if they are to fulfil their life-purpose.
Examples of people born with this placement include the business executive John
DeLorean (Sun in Capricorn) who tirelessly worked to make a name for himself; the
actor Mickey Rooney (Sun in Libra), a childhood star who made his way ‘to the top’
and stayed there; and General Rommel (Sun in Scorpio) whose cunning as a field-
marshal earned him the nickname ‘the desert fox’. Women with this placement who do
not satisfy their own need to achieve through a career may be drawn to prestigious or
successful men as partners (the ‘Hollywood wives’ syndrome). For either sex, conflicts
between the home and personal life versus achieving publicly and professionally are
shown by oppositions from the 4th house to the 10th house Sun. The kind of self-
exertion, dedication and perseverance required to ascend the ladder of success often
limits the freedom and spontaneity to move in other directions. Another danger with
this placement is that the sense of identity or worth could rely too much on their title or
position in the world. Should that be lost, they are left totally bereft and annihilated.

If the 10th house is taken to be the mother, then the Sun in this position makes her
very important. The child with the Sun here could project his or her own identity and
power onto the mother: her needs and wants become the child’s needs and wants.
Conversely, this placement sometimes indicates a mother who requires that the child
mirror her, imposing her own individuality onto the offspring, as in the classic example
of the ‘stage mother’. (‘I’m a frustrated actress, so my child is going to learn to act.’)
Usually there is a collusion here: the child worships and adores the mother and offers
the self up to her – ‘You want me as your showpiece and I want to be that for you.’ At
some point, those with the Sun in the 10th must examine how much they are doing
something for themselves, and how much it is being done to win Mother’s love.

Leo on the MC or contained within the 10th house implies some of the same
meaning as the Sun there.

Sun in the 11th
Those with the Sun in the 11th establish a more cogent sense of identity through social,
humanitarian or political activities. The phrase ‘no man is an island’ is commonplace,
but it still has particular significance for this placement.

In some way, the identity should be linked to a larger unit than the individual self.
Personal recognition could be gained through group involvement, and it is not unusual
for someone with the Sun here to rise to a position of prominence or wield influence
within various kinds of organizations. The nature of the experiences encountered
through group situations – how easily a person functions or adjusts in this sphere – can



be seen by aspects to the Sun in this house. The person may be a channel through which
new currents or trends entering the collective could manifest. The American
‘muckraking’ writer Upton Sinclair, who fought for new legislation protecting the
work-force against the evils of big industry, was born with the Sun conjunct Mars in
Virgo in the 11th.

There is a danger that the identity could be bought wholesale by aligning the self
with a group, belief system or cause. In this instance, it’s not a case of you are what you
eat, but you are what the group feeds you. Those with the Sun in the 11th need to
distinguish carefully between what they believe and what the group tells them they
ought to believe. (Gay black vegetarians don’t all have to think alike!)

Friendships are important to the full development of the Sun in this house. Those
with this placement could have a marked impact on close friends and conversely friends
could open new vistas and be helpful in the achievement of goals and objectives. As
with groups and belief systems, taken to an extreme, some sort of divine potency could
be projected onto friends.

It is wise for people with the Sun in the 11th to make a conscious effort to set
themselves feasible goals towards which to aim. Somehow, their efforts to realize these
will contribute towards the formation of a more solid and concrete sense of identity,
purpose and power. One of the most vital ingredients in the self-healing process is
having a reason to live.

Sun in the 12th
There is a basic archetypal discrepancy between the solar principle and the essence of
the 12th house. The Sun’s task is to establish, clarify and perpetuate a separate identity,
while the 12th house dispatches forces which threaten to dissolve, undermine,
destructure and overwhelm the boundaries of the individual ego. Resolving the conflict
requires that the person’s sense of ‘I’ extends in scope beyond the more normal or usual
reaches of consciousness. With the Sun in the 12th the ego must play its part as a
servant of the soul.

Those with the Sun in the 12th need to learn how to straddle the borders between
personal and universal, conscious and unconscious, individual ego and collective self.
This is challenging: the personal ego needs to be flexible enough to allow entry to these
elements and yet not so weak that it is overwhelmed by them.

In the effort to maintain a solid and firm identity, the person may reject the existence
of a personal or collective unconscious altogether. In the name of clarity and reason,
barriers are erected to prohibit the entry of anything fuzzy, vague, irrational, mystical or
transpersonal. The daytime border patrol follows the orders of the ego with the utmost
alertness and alacrity, but the nightwatchmen are notoriously inefficient. As soon as
they fall asleep on the job, what has been hidden or kept out of consciousness slips
through and invades. (It was Robert Frost who wrote ‘Something there is that doesn’t
love a wall.’) The next morning the day patrol is back at work and the intruders are
driven out once more. And so it goes on – vast reserves of psychic energy are spent
keeping one part of ourselves away from another part. Alienated from aspects of our



own make-up, it is not surprising that we suffer so much conflict and disease, not to
mention the feeling of being cut off from other people. The Sun in the 12th, however, is
given the opportunity to join the two sides of the self – personal and universal,
conscious and unconscious – in an attempt to help these make friends with one another.

The coalition between the forces of the ego and the hidden, deeper realm of the
psyche is potentially very fruitful. Those with the Sun in this house can act as channels
or mediums for the expression of mythic or archetypal images in the collective
unconscious, whether it is through art, poetry, dance, music or some form of psychic
work. Their sensitivity and openness to that which is beyond the requirements of the
personal self make them effective servants and healers who respond to the needs of
others. They may be used as vessels for invoking changes on the level of the collective.
In some way the personal identity meets and incorporates something larger and more
universal.

In line with traditional 12th house associations, those with the Sun here may need to
spend a good deal of time on their own. So receptive to others, they continually absorb
influences from the environment. Periods of withdrawal and retreat help them to shed
what they have ‘picked up’ and regain a sense of their own boundaries again.
Sometimes, crisis and confinement precede an experience of awakening and
illumination. Others may be so confused and undermined by unconscious forces or
outside elements that leading an ordinary day-to-day existence is severely hampered.

Various forms of institutions may play a part in their lives. The vocation could
involve work in hospitals, prisons, museums, libraries, etc. Certain astrological texts
suggest that those with the Sun in the 12th have used their will-power too selfishly in a
previous lifetime. Now they must employ their power for the sake of other people, or
have the experience of being at the mercy of somebody else’s authority. Hidden pride
and arrogance or the unconscious belief that the world owes them a living and should
without question recognize them as special could cause problems.

The Sun is a ‘male principle’ and in the nebulous 12th it could mean some confusion
around the father or other males in the life, or sacrifices to be made regarding them.
Sometimes, there is a strong psychic link with the father.

Notes – Chapter 18
1. Thomas Mann cited in Jaffee, The Myth of Meaning, Penguin Books, New York,

1975, p. 30.



19.

THE MOON AND CANCER THROUGH THE HOUSES

The Moon in the heavens has no light of its own – it only reflects the light of the Sun.
Unlike the Sun, which shows where effort is required to become a conscious individual,
the Moon is that area of life in which there is a natural tendency to blend in and adapt to
what is given. The Moon’s house is where we are sensitive and responsive to the needs
and influences of other people. It is where we are more easily moulded, shaped by habit
and past conditioning, and likely to be bound by the notions, expectations, values and
standards of our family or culture. Some of these inbred patterns may be worthwhile
and constructive, while others might hinder or retard progress in new directions. The
domain of the Moon is the area of life into which we retreat when we need a rest, pause
or sanctuary from the struggle of individuation and consciousness raising.

We are drawn into the sphere of life that houses the Moon out of a need for
belonging, comfort or safety. It is where we find or play Mother: we look for security,
containment or an anchor in its domicile or else we offer others nurturing or support in
that spectrum of experience.

The Moon in the heavens goes through phases and cycles – sometimes it is full and
open and at other times it is closed and hidden. Similarly, the house position of the
Moon indicates where we are likely to encounter fluctuating circumstances, where we
‘go through phases’ depending on our changing moods – sometimes open and
vulnerable, and at other times closed and withdrawn. We may exhibit regressive,
childish and insecure behaviour in that area. More positively, it is where we keep in
touch with the emotional and instinctive side of life, and where useful inclinations and
memories which support existence are exhibited. Women may play an important role in
our lives through the house placement of the Moon, a basic feminine or anima
principle.

The house with the sign of Cancer on the cusp (or contained within it) carries a
similar influence to the Moon in a house. Also, the house with Cancer in it will in some
way be connected to the house in which the Moon is placed. For instance, the
philosopher Bertrand Russell was born with Cancer on the cusp of the 9th house and the
Moon in Libra in the 11th. His philosophy and world view (9th) strongly sympathized
with and supported (the Moon) the cause of humanitarianism and freedom of thought
(11th house).

Moon in the 1st
Any planet in the 1st house is amplified as if the volume has been raised on that
principle. According to its sign placement, the Moon there energizes the emotional,
instinctive and feeling responses of the individual. Unless strongly modified by other



aspects in the chart, the person will radiate lunar qualities – sensitivity, receptivity and a
kind of child-like openness to which others are naturally drawn.

While the Sun in the 1st wants to exert a dynamic impact on the environment, the
Moon in the 1st is more inclined to stay fused with mother and surroundings. All little
babies instinctively know that winning the love of the caretaker helps to ensure survival
and therefore they adapt to what the mother likes or wants. But those with the Moon in
the 1st – even later in life when survival is not dependent on the presence of another
person – may habitually act as if their lives depended on being what others want them
to be. Consequently, they exhibit a radar-like ability to pick up and read signals
emanating from those around them. However, the interpretation of these signals is often
distorted by a high degree of subjectivity. They can be so swaddled in their own needs,
feelings and emotional complexes that they are sometimes incapable of viewing life or
others at all objectively. In extreme cases, all they care about is what they want and
can’t easily give another person anything unless it fits in with that.

Nonetheless, the Moon in the 1st bestows an almost animal-like intelligence –
instinctively knowing what to do in certain situations. They can ‘sniff out’ opportunity,
‘feel’ danger, or ‘hear’ trouble.

The house with Cancer on the cusp or contained within it will be connected in some
way to a 1st house Moon. For instance, Derek Jacobi, whose subtle and sensitive
character portrayals have made him one of the most respected of English actors, was
born with the receptive and naturally creative Moon in Libra in the 1st and Cancer
intercepted in the 10th house of career.

Moon in the 2nd
Whereas the Sun in the 2nd enhances its sense of identity and power through money
and possessions, the Moon in the 2nd is content with the emotional security these things
bring. The Sun must find its own value system, but those with the Moon here might
swallow whole the value system of the family of origin or those around them. The Sun
projects prestige onto possessions; the Moon projects feelings onto what it owns. There
can be a sentimental attachment to objects, especially those inherited from the family or
linked with the memory of key people or situations in the life. Often there is an interest
in heirlooms and antiques – anything from the past.

Like the changing Moon in the heavens, financial circumstances might fluctuate.
Money can be earned through professions related to the Moon such as those which
serve public needs, careers in catering, pub or hotel work, child-care, housing and real
estate, or even work at sea. This position suggests inner resources of adaptability,
sensitivity and the ability to instinctively know what others want or need.

Moon in the 3rd
While the Sun in the 3rd bursts in on the scene and wants to create an impression on the
immediate environment, the Moon in this house reflects and is shaped by the
surroundings. As there is the ability to ‘feel’ what others are thinking, those with this
placement may have some difficulty in distinguishing between their own thoughts and



the ruminations of others around them. At times, they may believe that they are being
objective and rational when in actual fact they are reacting on the basis of some
emotional complex. Situations will be coloured according to their moods and
sensitivities. If they are in a positive frame of mind, then they will interpret everything
positively. If they feel touchy and vulnerable, the same environment will be interpreted
quite differently.

The mind is imaginative and there is usually a retentive memory. The Sun in the 3rd
believes that knowledge is power; the Moon in the 3rd craves knowledge for the
security it brings to truly know how something works. Since the Moon is associated
with influences from the past, there may be a fascination for such subjects of study as
archaeology, genealogy and history. This placement gives a certain adaptability to
changing environments, but the mind may wander or fluctuate from one interest to
another. The relationship to siblings – especially female relatives such as sisters, aunts
or girl cousins – is worth examining for clues to the psychological make-up of those
with this placement. Comfort and security is sought through a sibling or a relative, or
they may have had to be ‘mother’ to others around them during the growing-up years.
The actual mother may be related to more like an older sister than a parent.

The research of the Gauquelins suggests that this placement confers some degree of
writing talent. Unless the Moon were in an air sign, the writing would likely display
heartfelt emotion or describe personal memories and experiences. Public speakers with
the Moon in the 3rd should be able to sway the feelings of the audience. Teachers with
this placement can relate to the deeper feelings and needs of their students.

Moon in the 4th (and Cancer on the IC)
Whereas the Sun in the 4th struggles to free itself from too great an identification with
the family, the Moon in the 4th finds security and a sense of belonging within this
structure. Refuge from life’s battles is sought by withdrawing back into the home. Even
when they have a family of their own, those with this placement may pack their bags
and run back to the family of origin when difficulties arise. They need the home to be a
kind of retreat and sanctuary, and therefore they are highly attuned to the undercurrents
and changes of atmosphere in that environment. Nonetheless, they may not always
make their own feelings obvious to others. Often they regress into their early childhood
behaviour patterns when the struggles of life become too much. I know one person with
this placement who whenever he is upset has an intense craving for chocolate chip
cookies because that is what his mother gave him to make him feel better as a child. It
is as if there is a mechanism in the psyche which says ‘All right, I’ve had enough
growing up for now, I’m going backwards for a while.’

A child normally looks to its mother for security and containment but with the Moon
in the 4th it is possible that the father emanated a safer feeling than the mother. Some
with this placement may still be searching for a father to make life secure for them. In
the long run, the parent needs to be found on an archetypal level from within the self.
Depending on the aspects to the Moon in this house, qualities of caring and nurturance
might have been learned from the father rather than the mother.



Sometimes the 4th house Moon wanders restlessly in search of the home or even the
country in which it feels the most safe or has the greatest sense of belonging.
Sometimes it is the conditions within the home itself which fluctuate. Often there is an
interest in family lineage, real estate or archaeology and perhaps a strong desire to live
by water. The conditions surrounding the end of life may be shown by the aspects to the
Moon in this house.

With Cancer on the IC, a deep and persistent longing for peace, safety and
tranquillity is the foundation on which the life is built.

Moon in the 5th
The Sun in the 5th stresses and strengthens its individuality through tackling hobbies,
romance and creative pursuits; those with the Moon in this house, however, engage in
such outlets in the search for comfort, security and relaxation. While 5th house Suns
struggle to be creative, 5th house Moons feel most ‘at home’ when creating. Often
artistic expression is innate and natural. An inborn sense of importance and specialness
allows them to enjoy themselves – they don’t have to prove anything. Of course,
aspects to the Moon must be examined in this respect to see with what degree of
difficulty or ease this principle is operating.

Unless the Moon is difficultly aspected by Saturn or the outer planets, there is
normally a desire to produce children. We meet the mother in whatever house the Moon
is in. In this case, patterns established with the mother during the growing-up years may
be re-enacted through their own children. For instance, if they felt that mother didn’t
like them when they were small, they may then fear that their children won’t like them
or they may be afraid that they won’t like their children. The Moon in any house evokes
old memories and associations. Similarly, issues around the mother could be relived
through romantic entanglements.

Very often, those with 5th house Moons have a great appeal to the public in general.
Their way of presenting themselves is pleasing, engaging and usually non-threatening
to most people, as if there is something vaguely familiar about them. Sir Laurence
Olivier, known for his ability to portray so impeccably such a wide range of characters,
was born with the inherently discerning and skilful Moon in Virgo in the 5th.

Moon in the 6th
Those with this placement find security and comfort attending to daily routine and
administering to the needs of the body. Daily rituals like making the morning coffee,
taking tea at four, and the bath last thing at night give them a feeling of continuity and
well-being.

Physical health and their ability to function and cope with everyday contingencies
will vary according to moods. Aspects to the Moon in this house reveal how
successfully a person can contain the kinds of anxieties that crop up from day to day. A
trine from Saturn could indicate, for instance, that the physical vessel is a hardy
container, remaining steadfast in situations to which others might overreact. A square to
Mars, though, suggests that the person ‘acts out’ every little anxiety – the body just



cannot contain or support the stress that quietly. There may be a connection between
how the mother coped with daily tensions and the way in which this person does the
same. Those kinds of illnesses which can be inherited or which ‘run in the family’
should be noted and preventative measures are worth taking. They should be careful
about diet – eating problems or overindulgence in alcohol could arise at the onset of
emotional difficulties. The body has an instinctual wisdom of its own which they can
learn to respect and recognize without too much effort. If they take the time to notice
what their bodies register when they walk into a room or meet someone for the first
time, they will realize just how much can be intuited through bodily sensations.

There is a need to feel emotionally engaged in work. Usually a job which involves
interaction with other people is better than working in too isolated a situation.
Sometimes they find themselves entangled in the personal life of co-workers or
servants. Those with the Moon in the 6th are adept at fulfilling the practical and
emotional needs of others and are well suited to any employment in which they can
play ‘Mother’. Unresolved mother issues may be projected onto the dog or cat. More
seriously, a pet to love and care for and who is there when they come home could
contribute to both psychological and physical health.

Moon in the 7th
Those with the Moon in the 7th may be over-sensitive or over-adaptive to the needs of
the partner, deriving their identity too much from what the other person wants them to
be.

Conversely, they may be looking for a mother in a mate. Early emotional patterning
around the mother might be projected onto the partner, clouding an objective perception
of the here-and-now reality. A host of problems arise if a partner (male or female) is
confused with the mother in this way – not to mention the fact that even the thought of
sex with the mother is taboo. Marriage may be sought for the security it offers and the
promise of a cosy home and family which provide the person with a sense of belonging.
The Moon is not that concerned about being a separate individual. Getting married is
what most people do – so why shouldn’t they follow suit? Hard aspects to the Moon
from Saturn or the outer planets may render the fulfilment of these basic desires more
difficult: while the Moon in the 7th is definitely inclined towards relationship, other
parts of the self may not be so co-operative.

The partnership itself may need the kind of nurturing and caring that a small baby
would be given. The fluctuating nature of the Moon could manifest in a number of
ways. Those with this placement might experience many moods and changes of feelings
in connection to the relationship. In some cases, the Moon in the 7th describes a
restless, unstable or emotionally idiosyncratic partner. As with any planet in the 7th, the
person is advised to reflect on why he or she has attracted those particular qualities in
another person. What is the other person ‘living out’ for them?

Moon in the 8th
This position gives an innate openness and attunement to hidden forces operating



personally or collectively, which might express itself as the ability to sense evolving
social currents, especially subtle economic or business trends. However, those with the
Moon here could, at times, be confused or ‘taken over’ by powerful unconscious
complexes which grip and overwhelm them. As children, they would have been
extremely sensitive to undercurrents in the home environment, especially the mother’s
deeper feelings, moods and frustrations, which they may still be ‘carrying around’
inside them. Present relationships will reawaken earlier emotional patterns and there is
the need to delve into the past to uncover the roots of these problems.

Early experience with sex or death may have strongly affected the character. Sex or
intimacy could be sought primarily for emotional security or as a way of forgetting the
struggles of the world. This placement is usually very responsive to the sexual or
emotional needs of the partner and will probably not find it difficult to adapt to these.
Very often, there is a natural capacity to help others discover a greater sense of their
value and worth. They may literally ‘care for’ other people’s money, or nurture others
through times of trauma and transition.

If the Moon is difficultly aspected, divorces, endings or separations may be messy
and fraught with more than the usual degree of anxiety, although hitherto untapped
resources and strengths could be discovered through such breakdowns and crises.

On a more mundane level, there is the possibility of inheritance of land or property,
most likely through the mother or the partner.

Moon in the 9th
The Moon in the 9th often exhibits an uncanny ability to foretell the outcome towards
which events are leading. There is a natural receptivity to the realm of philosophy and
religion and an intuitive grasp of concepts and symbols. The feelings give access to
what the mind cannot rationally comprehend. Although those with this placement may
rely on a faith which has been inherited via the family or culture, they have the ability
to adapt the philosophy to changing influences and conditions.

Ninth house Moons may reside in a foreign country for periods in the life. Travel is
connected to the emotional life – some people yearn for their spiritual home or feel a
special link to a particular culture other than their own. Travel, adventure, fanciful
dreaming or philosophical pursuits could be used as a means of escaping from stressful
situations or the struggles of everyday life. They may feel most ‘at home’ when
contemplating the meaning of life, praying in church, or when they are about to board
an aeroplane or embark on a new venture or enterprise.

Their way of caring for others may be through sharing philosophical or spiritual
insights, or inspiring potential disciples with new hope, vision, meaning and direction.
The image of God may have a matriarchal slant, although this will be strongly coloured
by the Moon’s sign and aspects.

In men’s charts, there can be close relationships with foreign women, or women who
somehow broaden or expand their horizons. Difficult aspects to the Moon in the 9th
could indicate problems with female in-laws. The Gauquelins found a correlation
between the Moon in the 9th (just after culminating) and writing as a profession.



Moon in the 10th (and Cancer on the MC)
As children, our well-being depends on our mother loving us. Those with the Moon in
the 10th project the ‘mother’ onto the world: their safety and security needs are linked
to issues of profession and status. They are extremely sensitive about their reputations,
standing before the public, and what people think about them in general. No matter how
mature and self-sufficient they appear, inside is a little boy or girl looking up to the
mother/world and asking to be loved. Squares and oppositions to the Moon in the 10th
denote other parts of the person which frustrate or do not necessarily gel with what
winning that approval requires. One gruelling example of this is Richard Speck, born
with the Moon in Cancer in the 10th but with Mars in Aries squared to it, who murdered
eight nurses in June 1966 when transiting Jupiter was conjuncting the Moon and
bringing out the Mars square.

The person with the Moon in the 10th often exhibits, through gestures and
movements, a close identification with the mother. As children, they are exceptionally
responsive to her physical and emotional life. The acclaimed musician Van Cliburn first
studied the piano at the age of three and was taught by his mother who had been a
concert pianist herself: he had Cancer on the 10th house cusp and the Moon in Leo in
the 10th. Later on, some people with this placement may even become like mothers to
their own mothers. At some point, they need to sort out just where mother ends and they
begin by defining their own space and physical reality.

The career or profession may reflect mothering qualities: serving and catering to
other people’s needs, feeding them, housing them, nursing them, etc. Career issues will
elicit and expose their feelings and emotions. Bosses or authority figures may be the
target for unresolved problems with the mother or parents in general.

Some may look to the world to mother them via the welfare state. There will be a
sensitivity to the moods of the public and a potential to sway the feelings of the masses.

Cancer on the Midheaven or in the 10th house carries a similar connotation to the
Moon there.

Moon in the 11th
Those with the Moon in the 11th seek security, comfort and a sense of belonging
through friends, groups and organizations. They could be very impressionable and
should exercise some discrimination in the choice of people or circles with whom they
associate. Unless the Moon is strongly fixed, they have the capacity to blend in with
many different crowds.

They may like to ‘mother’ friends and likewise expect a fair degree of support and
nurturing from others when needed. Some may keep friends from as far back as
childhood. If the Moon is in a mutable sign there may be many changing acquaintances
and fewer lasting friendships. Early hurts or disappointments with friends are worth
exploring if the Moon is difficultly aspected as problems may have established patterns
which need to be examined and cleared. Women with hard aspects to the Moon in the
11th often complain about trouble getting along with other women. It is possible that
‘unfinished business’ with the mother could be projected onto female friends. For either



sex, a well-aspected Moon here usually implies beneficial friendships with women. The
mother may be experienced more as a friend than an actual mother.

Many people with the Moon in the 11th involve themselves in group activities and
social outings as a way of relaxing and unwinding from the struggles in other areas of
life. Others join groups which promote causes about which they feel very emotional.
Some may play ‘mother’ in the group, making sure everyone else is comfortable or they
may even open their own home as a meeting place. There is the potential to stir the
feelings of large groups of people.

Goals and ambitions could fluctuate with moods, and are perhaps too easily
influenced by other people’s opinions about what would be best for them.

Provided heated emotional issues don’t cause too many problems with others, this
placement is an indication of those who could accumulate a ‘family of friends’ with
whom they share ties as strong as those of blood.

Moon in the 12th
Like the Moon in the other water houses, this placement suggests an innate
psychological openness and vulnerability. A thin line exists between what they are
feeling and what others around them are feeling. Like psychic vacuum cleaners, they
‘suck in’ what is circulating in the atmosphere. They may believe they are experiencing
their own emotions, when, in actual fact, they have absorbed those of someone else.
Without forgoing their inborn receptivity, they would be wise to develop ways of
strengthening their ego-boundaries in order to protect themselves from being too
invaded. They need to master and use their sensitivity rather than be overwhelmed by it.
Some may require periodic seclusion to re-establish their inner peace and equilibrium.

The root of emotional problems is deeply embedded in the unconscious and not
easily accessible to the conscious memory. Psychological difficulties could stem from
very early infancy or even pre-natal experiences. Reincarnationists would maintain that
hard aspects to the Moon in the 12th suggest that present life problems are directly
connected to unfinished emotional business from past lives. These could manifest in
difficulties with the mother, children, and women in general, or may reveal themselves
in the house with Cancer on the cusp or contained within it.

In any case, the Moon in the 12th often indicates a complex or unusual relationship
with the mother. The 12th house knows no boundaries: the child would have been very
receptive to the mother’s feeling life and would continue to be so even when physically
separated. Through dreams, mediumship and visions, many people with 12th house
Moons are still closely linked with mothers long departed from the world.

While those with this placement have vivid feelings and dreams, they may carefully
conceal their emotions and exude an air of mystery. In certain cases, there are secret
love affairs or emotional liaisons which are kept hidden for any number of reasons.

There is a natural capacity to care for those who are limited or afflicted in some way.
As with the Sun in the 12th, some may be so overwhelmed by deep seated phobias and
complexes that they have great difficulty in leading an ordinary day-to-day existence. In
some cases, an institution may have to ‘mother’ them. Sometimes early experiences in



hospitals or children’s homes would have affected the character significantly.
In general, the Moon in the 12th indicates a fairly prevalent desire to regress back

into the bliss of a womb-like existence. Those who had difficult pre-natal experiences,
or who were deprived of the mother at an early age, may need to heal these wounds
before they can accept incarnation and say ‘yes’ to life.

More positively, the Moon in the 12th often indicates direct access to a storehouse of
wisdom available to the individual at those times when insight and inner resources are
most needed. Some will act as vessels to mediate mythic and archetypal images for
others. William Blake, with the Moon in Cancer in the 12th, is a supreme example of
this. He believed that the artist, not the priest, was our closest link with God. Blake
elaborated on his role as mediator in his poem ‘Jerusalem’: ‘I rest not from my great
task! To open the Eternal Worlds, to open the immortal Eyes of Man inwards into
Worlds of Thought.’1 The Gauquelins also found a correlation between 12th house
Moons and successful careers in writing and politics.

Notes – Chapter 19
1. William Blake cited by Martin Butlin in William Blake, Tate Gallery Publications,

London, 1978, p. 17.



20.

MERCURY, GEMINI AND VIRGO THROUGH THE
HOUSES

Each planet has certain associations with the gods and goddesses of Greek and Roman
mythology. The characteristic activities of the Greek Hermes and the Roman Mercury
shed light on the function and meaning of this planet and the way it expresses itself
through the different houses.

Mercury was the messenger of the gods – a fact-gatherer and distributor of
information. Likewise, the planet Mercury in the chart is associated with the workings
of the mind and intellect and with various forms of exchanging information, such as
writing, speech, teaching and travel. The myth tells us that as soon as Mercury was born
he was bored with just being safely tucked away in his cradle; in fact, he abandoned it
as quickly as he could in order to find something more interesting to do. Similarly,
Mercury’s house position in the birthchart indicates an area of life in which we are
restless, curious and inquisitive. Like a growing child fascinated by all the different
things in the world to touch, name and discover, we embark on a quest to figure out
how life works. In myth, Mercury was always portrayed as young, and never as an old
man. By house, this planet defines that sphere of life where we can stay eternally
young, maintaining an open and fresh outlook.

Mercury was an arbitrator and maker of deals. He pleaded different cases for the
various gods. One of his first actions after birth was to make offerings to all of the
twelve great divinities of Olympus. He was also a notorious thief who stole a little
something from all the other gods (such as Apollo’s cattle and Aphrodite’s girdle). In
this sense he was also a kind of cosmic mimic able to partake of some of the qualities of
each and every god. Likewise, Mercury, by house, shows where there is a high degree
of adaptability and versatility on the one hand, and a changeability and fickleness on the
other. Just when you think you have nailed him down, he slips away and turns up
somewhere else with a different point of view. The mind itself, like the god Mercury, is
a kind of trickster. The intellect enables us to be objective and analytical but very often
it can trick us by twisting facts to suit any case we wish to justify. As someone once
said, ‘There are lies, damned lies, and statistics.’

The medieval alchemists wrote of a figure they called Mercurius. He was defined
both as ‘the world-creating spirit’ and ‘the spirit concealed or imprisoned in matter’.1
Paradoxically, he was responsible for creating the world and yet he was trapped within
his own creation. Many years later, a twentieth-century German scientist, Werner
Heisenberg, researching into the field of atomic physics, disclosed his ‘Uncertainty
Principle’ in which he showed that ‘the act of observation itself affects that which is
being observed.2 Somehow, our minds play a part in determining the world.



Mercury delivered messages from the gods to mortal humans. In this sense, he
represents a process in all of us which allows a bridge to be built between higher
understanding and everyday reality, between consciousness and unconsciousness, and
between ego and environment. The mind can divide us from other people, but it is also
through the mind that our consciousness can be expanded to a broader awareness of the
interconnectedness of all life. The mind can sever or it can unite, and the house position
of Mercury shows where we can box ourselves into a corner or reach out to touch and
understand other people and our own selves better. It is worth reflecting on something
the philosopher Epictetus said almost two thousand years ago: ‘We are not troubled by
things, but by the opinions which we have of things.’3 In Mercury’s house, we may not
always be able to change the world but we can always do something about the way we
are looking at it.

Mercury is associated with two signs, Gemini and Virgo, which represent two
complementary functions of this planet. The Gemini side to Mercury is clever at piecing
bits of information together and relating different aspects of life to one another; Virgo,
on the other hand, dissects and pulls things apart, analysing each component in detail.

Gemini contained in a house elicits Mercury’s changeable, communicative and
restless qualities. It is where we tend to be ‘on the go’ and often spread somewhat
thinly. Like the proverbial butterfly, we may be hard to pin down in that area.

Virgo on the cusp or contained in a house evokes that side of Mercury which is
precise, critical and attentive to detail. While Gemini likes to know a little bit about a
host of different things, Virgo prefers to know a great deal about a few things. In
Gemini’s house we pursue knowledge for knowledge’s sake, but in Virgo’s house we
acquire knowledge in order to use it practically and constructively.

The house Mercury is in will be connected in some way to any house with Gemini in
it, and also with any house where Virgo is found. For instance, the writer Oscar Wilde
was born with Mercury in Scorpio in the 3rd house and Gemini on the cusp of the 10th,
relating the house and planet of communication (Mercury in the 3rd) with profession
and career (10th). But his 3rd house Mercury is also linked to his Ascendant, because
Virgo is on the cusp of the 1st house. He met life (1st house) equipped with a razor-
sharp intellect and a threateningly incisive wit (Mercury in Scorpio in the 3rd).

Mercury in the 1st
Those with this placement become conscious of themselves and life in general by being
curious and asking questions. They are meant to be spokespeople – distributors of ideas
and information or channels through which one discipline is linked to another. They are
usually highly analytical, both of themselves and others.

Mercury is a mimic and will take on the qualities of the sign it is in and any planet it
closely aspects. Therefore, these need to be carefully examined. For instance, Mercury
in a fire sign or conjunct Mars in the 1st gives rise to impulsive speech, action and
behaviour. Things pop out before they know it. Mercury in an earth sign or conjunct
Saturn is more prone to cautious assessment prior to committing the self to activity.
Things have to ‘sit’ right with them before they can act. Mercury in a water sign or



aspected to Neptune will evaluate the perceptions through the feelings and emotions,
unlike Mercury in air or aspected to Uranus which will speak and act from a more
purely objective stance, having (often in a flash) computed the bigger picture.

Those with Mercury in the 1st imbue the world with significance on the basis of
what they think about it. If they don’t like what they see, rather than blaming the world
‘out there’, they should try changing their own attitudes and then take another look at
what they find. This same important idea was clearly expressed by the deep and
independent thinker Albert Schweitzer, who wrote: ‘The greatest discovery of any
generation is that human beings can alter their lives by altering their attitudes of mind.’4

Those with Mercury in the 1st often maintain a youthful appearance throughout life.
Sometimes there are frequent changes of environment in the early years, as if they are
forced from a young age to view life from different angles.

Mercury in the 2nd
If well-aspected, Mercury in the 2nd can be a skilful manipulator of money or finance,
especially adept at arbitration and making deals with others. Money can be earned
through such professions as selling, writing, lecturing, teaching, secretarial work, the
transport industry, etc. They may be concerned with the movement or distribution of
goods, with devising new techniques of production, or with ways of improving the
quality of existing products. Innate values to be developed include inventiveness,
dexterity, flexibility and a talent for using words.

On a broader level, there is a curiosity and urge to understand the nature of the
physical world. A small pebble found on the beach or the intricacies of a hair follicle
found on the body are endlessly fascinating for a minute or two. A sense of security is
found through knowledge and learning how something works. However, unless
Mercury is in a fire sign, it may take some time before experience is fully transmuted
into understanding when placed in the earthy 2nd house.

Gemini in the 2nd suggests more than one source of income or way of earning
money. Cleverness and ingenuity are marketable assets. Sometimes the person may
work with relatives.

Virgo on the 2nd emphasizes precision and attention to detail as inborn resources
worth developing. Shrewd and cautious with money and possessions, they may place
more importance on quality than on quantity. Some with this placement come to value
the healthy functioning of the body as the most important possession in life.

Mercury in the 3rd
Mercury is strongly placed in the 3rd, since in the natural zodiac this is one of its own
houses. The sign placement and aspects to it will describe the way a person thinks,
learns and digests experience. A 3rd house Mercury in fire or air or in aspect to Mars,
Jupiter or Uranus indicates a more extroverted and speedy mind than when Mercury is
placed in an earth sign or in aspect to Saturn, which slows down and deepens the
thought processes. Mercury in water or aspected to the Moon or Neptune learns more
through osmosis, absorption and aesthetic and emotional appreciation than in an



analytic, step-by-step mode. A ‘good mind’ is normally defined as one that can think
rationally and logically, but an examination of the 3rd house may reveal other kinds of
minds – just as good – which operate differently from the standards of traditional
educational systems. Learning difficulties may be shown by aspects of Uranus,
Neptune, or Pluto to a 3rd house Mercury and often stem from the fact that this person’s
mind is not the type that is favoured by conventional teaching techniques.

In general, however, Mercury in the 3rd, unless adversely aspected, reveals a lively,
witty, observant intellect, adept at communication and repartee, with good attention to
detail. Those with this placement are unusually clever at selecting those facts which
justify or support the case they wish to present. (Oscar Wilde, with Mercury in Scorpio
in the 3rd once wrote, ‘Truth is rarely pure, and never simple.’) Those with Mercury in
the 3rd normally have at least a little something to say about everything. If you don’t
think so, ask them and wait a minute.

The nature of the relationship with siblings and neighbours will be shown by the
aspects to Mercury in this house. Mercury in difficult aspect to Saturn or Pluto, for
instance, could indicate some deep-rooted problems stemming from sibling issues.
These are worth examining as they often illuminate patterns which may still be
operating much later in life. I drew up the chart of a woman with Mercury conjunct
Pluto in the 3rd house whose younger brother died when she was only six years old. At
the age of twenty-eight, she was still walking around believing that something she had
said or done was the cause of his death.

Gemini on the 3rd usually gives a quick and alert mental style. An innate ability to
master languages is indicated. However, there may be a tendency to mouth opinions
before all the facts are known, thus landing a foot in it.

Perhaps due to an anxious disposition, Virgo on the 3rd attempts to handle everyday
affairs and interactions with efficiency and caution. Critical and analytical abilities are
increased with an aptitude for selecting just the right word or phrase to precisely
express a concept or sentiment.

Mercury in the 4th (and Gemini on the IC, and Virgo on the IC)
Mercury in the 4th sometimes indicates an intellectual or academic home background,
where the emphasis was on being sensible and rational, perhaps at the expense of
feelings, warmth and physical closeness. Intelligence may be inherited through the
family line. If the 4th house is taken to mean the father, then in some way he would
have carried the Mercury projection: he might have been experienced as expressive,
articulate, critical or possibly tricky and elusive, someone who ‘comes and goes’.
Mental attitudes could be mixed up with those of the father. There may even be more
than one father – the actual father and a stepfather or another person who fills the role
of a father-figure.

Early changes of residence may bring to the surface underlying qualities of
flexibility and adaptability. Some with this placement might prefer a nomadic lifestyle.
If Mercury is difficultly aspected in the 4th, there could be more than the usual amount
of bickering, arguments and back-biting within the early home or later home



environments. Mental and educational activities could be carried on in the home. Even
well into the second half of life, the person would benefit from further learning or
studying.

Gemini on the IC describes a curious and restless soul, often with a strong dual
nature. Dane Rudhyar compares this placement to a palm or sequoia, which has many
roots, though none reach very far below the surface.5 The person could ‘lose the self’ in
a web or maze of ideas, thoughts, or a mass of inconsequential, or contradictory, bits of
information. More positively, there is a persistent urge to order and understand the self
and the environment. The home may be used as a place where ideas are exchanged and
neighbours congregate. Sometimes there are two homes, perhaps one in town and the
other in the country.

Virgo on the IC indicates a highly self-critical nature. A desire to refine or improve
the self is the foundation upon which much of the life is built. This is exteriorized into a
preoccupation with improvements around the home, or the maintenance of an
efficiently functioning household. Virgo on the 4th house cusp may use the home as a
base of operation for work. Attention should be paid to health problems which run in
the family.

Mercury in the 5th
Creative pursuits, hobbies and recreational outlets are the means of becoming more
conscious of the self and the environment. Some form of artistic expression may be the
medium through which this person sees, thinks, feels and communicates. The
incomparable Mozart, the expressive symbolist poet Verlaine, and the learned
Renaissance painter Raphael all had Mercury in this house. For those with this
placement, experience is more richly understood and better digested if it can be
described in poetic words, drawn, sung about or danced. Knowledge is passed down
from generation to generation in this way.

Expanding the mind through knowledge and developing the ability to communicate
and convey ideas contribute to greater self-fulfilment with Mercury in this position.
Mental amusements such as chess, Scrabble and other games of strategy and wit might
be typical 5th house Mercury pursuits. Gymnastics, track and field events, and those
sports which involve precision teamwork such as basketball (Wilt Chamberlain of the
Harlem Globetrotters was born with Mercury in Virgo in the 5th) also come to mind.

Mercury’s restlessness and need for variety can manifest itself in an active romantic
life. (Virgo here will go for quality, but Gemini in the 5th, in the tradition of great
French farces, may juggle a few at a time.) The flame of romance is probably kept
burning longer if the other person is mentally stimulating. Flattering those with
Mercury in the 5th about the acuity and breadth of their knowledge, or their brilliant
way of putting things, will get you everywhere.

Parents with this placement normally foster the intellectual abilities of their children
and both probably have a lot to learn from one another. The parent-child relationship
may blossom when the child is older and increasingly able to communicate and
exchange ideas. Mercury in the 5th makes a good teacher or educator of young people



and I have often seen this placement in the charts of those who work especially well
with adolescents.

Gemini on the cusp or contained in the 5th enhances writing, speaking, and mental
and physical agility. Virgo there often indicates practical creative skills – carpentry,
gourmet cooking, making their own clothes, pottery, etc.

Mercury in the 6th
Knowledge is acquired in the process of managing the affairs of everyday life and
maintaining the health and well-being of the body.

With Mercury here, a great deal can be learned from the body – especially when
little things go wrong. But those with this placement must learn to ask the right
questions at the right time, such as, ‘Why do I always get this pain in the neck when
you walk into the room?’ Or, ‘Why does my backache get worse on Saturday nights?’
In its own domain of the 6th, Mercury dispatches messages from the unconscious mind
to the conscious mind via those minor aches and pains which most of us interpret as
cues to reach for the aspirin. Information about the environment is also available
through the barometer of the body if we only learn how to read the instrument. Carl
Jung, who often used his intuition in this way while treating patients, had Mercury in
the feeling sign of Cancer in the 6th sextile the equally receptive Moon in Taurus in the
3rd. The psychologist Arthur Janov promoted a form of treatment called Primal
Therapy, in which patients were encouraged to discharge their deepest feelings and
emotions through expressing these physically by crying, screaming, kicking, biting,
etc.: he was born with Mercury in Virgo in the 6th ruling Virgo on the 6th house cusp
and Gemini on the cusp of the 3rd house of communication.

Health problems may be connected to nerves, excessive worrying, too much activity
and not enough rest. Yoga, relaxation techniques, meditation and attention to breathing
can help reduce the stress of an overwrought mind and body. Mercury in the 6th is
sometimes a case of mind (Mercury) over matter (the earthy 6th): positive mental
images of the self affirm health, foster the healing process, and may even serve in the
cause of prevention.

The 6th house describes how we make use of our time, and with Mercury here, the
overriding need is to keep busy. Check priorities: how much of the time is frittered
away in an endless number of pursuits and activities which in the end don’t really lead
anywhere?

It is helpful if the work is mentally engaging and allows for some movement and
mobility (especially if Gemini is on the 6th house cusp). Virgo in the 6th excels at those
jobs which require precision and attention to detail and may perform daily routines with
a ritualistic fanaticism (and even a fetishistic obsession for one particular brand of soap
powder over another). If Mercury in the 6th is difficultly aspected, watch out for gossip,
slander or back-biting among co-workers and a tendency for unresolved issues with
siblings to resurface in the office.

Mercury in the 7th



Mercury’s dual function of gathering information and then distributing it again operates
clearly when this planet is housed in the 7th: there is an enormous amount to learn
through being with other people but there is just as much to teach and share with them.
Mercury in the 7th naturally desires to communicate and exchange ideas with many
different types of people. Assessing and understanding how and what others think is a
favourite pastime. Telling them one’s own thoughts and opinions runs a close second.

Mercury in the 7th shops around for a partner who is intellectually stimulating. Of
course, they may find so many people who are interesting in different ways, it is
difficult to settle on just one. Then again, there may be no one ever interesting enough.
Nor is Mercury in the 7th immune to the pitfalls of projection: some may try to import
another person to do their thinking, talking and decision-making for them. Or they may
attract someone who is non-committal, unreliable, or tricky to pin down. As hurtful as
this might be, there is the secondary gain of having escaped being pinned down
themselves.

While being careful not to approach the whole delicate and mysterious area of
relationship too much ‘from the head’, some degree of objectivity and detachment is
required to sustain a long-term involvement. With Mercury in the 7th, many problems
can be ‘worked through’ if they are discussed and analysed. Some people with this
placement may be fairly (or should I say unfairly) critical and judgemental about ‘those
little things’ which their partners do that annoy them. Fortunately, the antics of the god
Mercury remind us that a sense of humour about such things is the great balancer.

Gemini on the 7th sometimes indicates more than one important close relationship in
the life – or one relationship which undergoes such a transformation that it is almost
like an entirely new one. Virgo is more cautious and discerning about its choice of
partners, although anyone who ‘needs saving’ or likes to save others is fair game.

Mercury in the 8th
The 8th house entices curious Mercury to explore and learn from what is hidden and
less obvious in life – to ferret out secrets, and probe into mysteries in search of the
bottom line. This is the detective-like mind, with eyes that can see in the dark.
Bordering on a voyeuristic preoccupation, Mercury in the 8th watches the kinds of
exchanges that go on between people – at the bank, the stock market, in the bedroom or
behind any closed door. They may penetrate the world of money and finance, or turn
their attention to psychology and the occult, with a fascination for the mysteries of sex
and death. Although often adept at communicating and sharing with others anything
which is obscure, subtle, deep or profound, they prefer to keep their own thoughts and
motivations secret. For those with Mercury in the 8th, experience is not fast-food
grabbed hastily between appointments, but something to be savoured and thoroughly
digested.

Many astrological texts advise those with Mercury in this house (especially if
difficultly aspected to Neptune) to examine all contracts for possible misunderstandings
before signing. What one person believes is being said or promised may be different
from how the other person reads it. The same note of caution applies to wills and



inheritances – problems with Mercury in the 8th sometimes manifest as entanglements
with relatives over such things. Any difficulties stemming from childhood or adolescent
sexual explorations with brothers, sisters or neighbours are worth considering, as well
as early encounters with the death of anyone close to them. Their own death could be
related to diseases of the respiratory or nervous system, so attention should be paid to
these areas.

With Mercury, Gemini or Virgo in this house, the mind is suited to investigative
exploits and research work. Those with such a placement can be cool and detached
about subjects which often arouse other people’s passions and fears. For Virgo, the sex
drive may be targeted into some quite specific area of focus, while Gemini is curious
(and perhaps opinionated) about almost everything in this respect.

Mercury in the 9th
When Mercury wanders into the 9th, he takes his wings along with him, for this is an
expansive territory to cover. An 8th house Mercury burrows deep down and peers
closely into things; in the 9th, Mercury gains his perceptions and awareness by
‘zooming up’ or standing back and looking at it all from a distance and a higher
perspective. Believing that life and the cosmos can be ‘figured out’ intellectually, those
with Mercury in this house attempt (or should attempt) to discover and understand the
laws and principles which govern existence by scrutinizing the larger patterns at work.
A natural urge to expand and broaden the mind through study, reading and travel keeps
those with this placement as busy as ever in this domain.

Usually, there is a desire to teach and share what they perceive and discover, and to
inspire others with what has inspired them. This placement suits philosophers,
clergymen, writers, publishers, educators and public relations people.

Adhering too fanatically to their own beliefs or version of the truth is the danger of a
difficultly aspected Mercury in this house. Facts which support the cherished belief
system are readily received, but the others are handily overlooked.

In some cases, relatives who live abroad may figure in the life or a long journey
might significantly influence how the person thinks. Problems with Mercury in the 9th
can also mean bickering and gossip among in-laws.

Gemini on the 9th may have to explore many different philosophies and cultures in
order to satisfy a thirst for knowledge and experience. Virgo here inclines the person to
explore particular philosophies and cultures more in depth. With Virgo, the letter of the
law may be taken too literally in an attempt to live the daily life in accordance with a
rigid interpretation of the scriptures. Virgo believes in that which can be seen and tested
and may have trouble card-cataloguing the inexplicable mysteries of life.

Mercury in the 10th (and Gemini on the MC, and Virgo on the MC)
The qualities and principles associated with Mercury are usually reflected in the choice
of career when it is in the 10th house. The work may involve writing, teaching, printing,
lecturing, selling, the media, telecommunications, administrative or secretarial skills,
forms of manual dexterity, and the transport of goods or people from one place to



another. While pursuing career and professional ambitions, they can learn about
themselves and the environment. Those with this placement like to be seen as bright,
intelligent and capable, and will want to be remembered by others for these qualities.

If the 10th is taken to mean the mother, then Mercury will colour the image of her. If
she was seen as clever and articulate, then the child emulates those traits and tries to
develop them. The mother might have emphasized the importance of a good education
and the need to be intelligent and expressive in life. She also could have been
experienced as fickle and changeable – not always present – as if her body was there
but her mind was somewhere else. I have seen difficult aspects to Mercury in the 10th
in the charts of some people whose mothers were mentally unstable. If besieged by hard
aspects, this placement could also indicate communication problems between parent
and child and a difficulty in understanding or appreciating one another.

Gemini on the cusp of the 10th may indicate more than one important career in the
life. The work may be linked with siblings or other relatives. Sometimes there may be
two people who have shared the mother’s role. Virgo on the 10th emphasizes a pride in
the impeccability or exactness of one’s work. In this case, the mother may have been
experienced as hardworking, critical and orderly, depending on the aspects to Mercury.

Mercury in the 11th
Awareness of the self and life in general is expanded through friendships and group
contacts if Mercury is in the 11th. Rather than just pursuing something alone, Mercury
here enhances its knowledge by seeking other people who share a similar interest. For
instance, you can study astrology on your own at home with some books, or you can
gather together with other people interested in it. Through doing so, other people’s
attitudes, points of view and experiences of the topic enlarge your own scope and
appreciation. Helpful hints can be shared and your own opinions aired: ‘Oh yes, I
hadn’t seen that before, but did you ever consider …’ Problems with Mercury in this
house could indicate trouble communicating or being understood in groups.

Mercury in the 11th also joins organizations which promote a common belief,
concept or cause. One voice becomes many: a group of people thinking something is
more powerful than just one person thinking the same thing. Mercury’s thoughts might
dwell on the ways in which society can be improved or advanced. Mercury in the 11th
feels a kinship with like minds or with other group members and sometimes acts as the
group spokesperson. Then again, they may be the one that everyone else tells to shut up
so that other people can get a word in. The nature of the group itself may be ‘mercurial’
– debating clubs, writing societies, or networking groups which link or refer one person
or group to another.

Much of the same applies to friendship. If Mercury is projected onto companions,
then those with the placement may seek a friend to do their thinking and decision-
making for them. Or a friend may turn out to be unreliable, gossiping, or the type who
says one thing and then does another. An actual brother or sister may be their best
friend, or a friend is sought who can be like a brother or sister to them.

The 11th house is the house of goals and objectives and Gemini on the cusp may



have some difficulty in choosing one particular goal or aim on which to focus.
Dithering, what they think they want one day is not what they think they want the next.
In groups, Gemini makes friends easily and usually has a great deal to say. Virgo in this
house is more discriminating about its choice of groups or friends, but once having
chosen probably finds it easier to make a longer commitment. Goals and objectives are
achieved in a more logical step-by-step fashion than Gemini in this sphere. Virgo offers
practical services to friends or organizations with which they associate.

Mercury in the 12th
Mercury doesn’t exactly wander into the 12th house – he falls into it. And, like Alice,
he finds himself in a strange land, encountering things that are awesome, helpful and
fascinating.

Primarily, a 12th house Mercury attempts to build a bridge between the conscious
and unconscious minds – to integrate into conscious awareness what is operating in the
hidden depths of the psyche. This involves a twofold process. First, those with this
placement must venture into the imaginal realms of the unconscious, although if they
don’t choose to take that initial step, it doesn’t matter – what is down there will sooner
or later come up to get them. Secondly, once in that realm, they must look around, take
notes and then come back up again. If they get stuck down there, forgetting to return up
again or unable to do so, then someone else will have to be called in to rescue them.

What does this all mean? Those with Mercury here – through introspection, soul-
searching, psychotherapy, good literature, or dreamwork – need to explore the
unconscious to find out what makes them tick. Depending on the aspects to Mercury,
some of what is stored there will be useful and productive and well worth bringing to
the surface. However, other stuff may need to be sifted through and sorted out –
especially learned impressions and memories from the past which, consciously
remembered or not, distort and obscure how information received in the present is being
interpreted. In order to see what is in front of them more clearly, they will have to clean
up some of the early life (or previous life?) debris cluttering their immediate perception
and awareness.

After a while uncollected rubbish starts to stink. If they don’t take some of that
‘garbage’ and convert it to compost, then the dissolving action that the 12th house has
on any planet in it begins to take effect: in this case the mind (Mercury) breaks down. I
mentioned that if Mercury doesn’t go down there, what’s down there comes up and gets
them. Mercury in the 12th could suffer occasionally from intrusive thoughts of an
obsessive or disturbing nature. If difficultly aspected, paranoia and the fear that others
are talking or plotting against them could result. Innocent facts and people will be
distorted to give support to these fantasies.

Planets in the 12th house are not sure of their boundaries. The question for Mercury
there is, ‘whose mind is it anyway?’ An openness to thoughts and undercurrents in the
atmosphere makes it difficult to know what thoughts are their own and which belong to
other people, In fact, some people with Mercury in the 12th may be so afraid of ‘losing
their mind’ that they compensate by being super-rational, only believing in what can be



statistically proven or tested. This placement also gives a secretive mind, which hides
what it is thinking from others. However, if Mercury is not too badly aspected, there are
psychic abilities, a vivid imagination and access to the accumulated wisdom of the past.

The imaginative Pulitzer Prize-winning author Ernest Hemingway was born with
Mercury in Leo in the 12th ruling Virgo on the Ascendant and Gemini on the cusp of
the 10th, the house of career. The film-maker and actor Orson Welles was another
brilliant talent with an expansive imagination: he was born with Mercury in Taurus in
the 12th exactly sextile Jupiter in Pisces in the 10th. The often divinely inspired actor,
Lord Olivier, also had Mercury in the 12th, ruling a Gemini Ascendant and Virgo on the
cusp of the 5th house of creative self-expression.

I have met some people with Mercury in the 12th who are insecure about their
mental abilities. It may be that they understand much more than they are able to put into
words, or suffer from learning or educational difficulties. Conversely, those with
Mercury here are sometimes involved in helping others who have problems with
speech, reading, hearing or mobility. Whatever is in the 12th house is not just there for
our own consumption – we can often use these energies to help or serve other people.
There may be sacrifices that have to be made for brothers or sisters, or something
unusual about the relationship with them.

The 12th house has been referred to as ‘the house of self-sustainment or self-
undoing’. With Mercury here, negative thinking could be the root of many problems,
while learning to use the mind and imagination more positively may be just the needed
ingredient to transform obstacles into blessings.

Gemini on the cusp of the 12th warns that clear thinking could be obscured by
unconscious emotional complexes which should be examined. On the positive side,
they can usually talk themselves out of difficulties or like Odysseus manoeuvre cleverly
through tricky situations. Virgo on the cusp of the 12th is prone to obsessive-
compulsive thoughts. Stemming from a fear of looking silly or appearing foolish, they
may be afraid to relax and let go. Often they judge themselves against too rigid ideals of
perfection and harbour feelings of inadequacy. This sensitivity to what is weak or
flawed can be turned around and used to help themselves or others where it is needed
most.

Notes – Chapter 20
1. Sallie Nichols, Jung and the Tarot, Samuel Weiser, Maine, USA, 1980, p. 52.
2. Russell, p. 125.
3. Epictetus cited in Ferrucci, p. 105.
4. Schweitzer cited in Ferrucci, p. 105.
5. Rudhyar, The Astrological Houses, p. 164.



21.

VENUS, TAURUS AND LIBRA THROUGH THE HOUSES

The planet Venus, associated with the Roman goddess of love and beauty with the same
name, and with the Greek goddess Aphrodite, symbolizes the desire in all of us for
union and relationship. Like the Moon, she is, in Jungian terms, an anima principle
representing the urge to balance, harmonize, merge and cherish. By house, Venus
indicates a sphere of experience through which we can most naturally attain a sense of
peace, equilibrium, well-being and satisfaction. Our ability to appreciate, to value, to
love and be loved is stimulated in her domain. It is where we are pleasing and open to
being pleased and where we exhibit some of our best style, taste and consideration for
others.

Sounds nice – but before you rush to look where Venus is placed in your chart, keep
in mind that this goddess had other sides to her nature which were less pleasant. First of
all, she couldn’t bear it if life or other people didn’t measure up to her idea of what they
should be. Because of such high expectations of perfection and harmony, the house of
Venus may denote where we suffer some disappointment and disillusionment when life
fails to meet these ideals. However, motivated by such dissatisfaction, Venus could also
indicate the area of life in which we feel impelled to do something which will make the
world (or ourselves) slightly more just, fair or beautiful.

Secondly, Aphrodite hated competition. She subjected the beautiful young mortal
Psyche to extremely humbling lessons because she felt that Psyche had overstepped her
place in receiving a degree of attention which only befitted a goddess, i.e. Aphrodite
herself. Also, when Paris had to judge whether Aphrodite, Athene or Hera was the most
beautiful goddess, Aphrodite unabashedly stripped off to bias his opinion. By house,
Venus may show the area of life in which we feel rivalry or envy towards those who
might be better endowed than ourselves. It is also where we will use seduction, sweet
deceit and other such wiles to secure our aims. Reputedly, Aphrodite wore a magic
girdle which had the power to enchant and enslave men.

As a further bribe to influence Paris to select her rather than the other goddesses, she
offered him the ravishing Helen as his wife. It didn’t seem to matter to Aphrodite that
Helen happened to be married already: winning the beauty contest was more important.
As a result, the Trojan War was started, bringing misery and upheaval to the lives of
thousands. Aphrodite (Venus), the goddess of love and beauty, sometimes makes a mess
of people’s lives.

Finally, Aphrodite occasionally functioned as a kind of redresser of imbalance. For
instance, by encouraging her son Eros to pluck Pluto with one of his famous arrows, she
gravely disrupted the life of young Persephone, whom she felt was just too innocent and
virginal for her own good. At times, in the house of Venus, a certain degree of pain,



strife or suffering is needed to bring us into better harmony or balance if we have swung
too far in any one direction.

Venus rules two signs, Taurus and Libra. Taurus represents the earthier and more
sensual side of Venus. The house with Taurus in it is where we most directly seek to
satisfy desires of a physical or instinctual nature – appetite indulgences like food or sex
and basic needs for comfort and security. Libra’s house, however, is where we want to
fulfil romantic and aesthetic ideals of love, fairness, symmetry and proportion in a quest
for the good, the beautiful and the truth in life.

The house Venus is in will influence any house with Libra or Taurus on the cusp or
contained within it.

Venus in the 1st
If we understand the 1st house to describe the way in which we best realize our own
special and unique identity, then Venus here suggests that life should be met with open
arms. A natural urge to relate to others with sensitivity, refinement and goodwill is
indicated. Although they find themselves by being harmonious and accommodating,
there is a danger that in attempting to be all things to all people, they actually lose
themselves. Venus in the 1st suggests that we should love and respect our own selves as
well.

In fact, a feeling of self-worth and self-esteem is crucial to loving and seeing other
people more clearly. If we appreciate our own worth, then we can appreciate the worth
of other people. If we accept ourselves, then we can more easily accept others. If those
with Venus in this house don’t learn to love and accept themselves first, they may
manipulate other people to do so in order to fill the gap. Like the proverbial coquette,
they are out to get as much flattery and attention as possible to prove their value and
worth. Some people with Venus in the 1st never take Aphrodite’s girdle off: they
display an obvious seductiveness which can be used for their own benefit. They may
even be downright treacherous.

Venus in the 1st often exhibits physical beauty or a ‘certain something’ which draws
others to them. They may literally embody the best qualities of the sign in which the 1st
house Venus is placed. Even without traditional good looks, an appreciative and
admiring disposition will make them attractive and appealing.

In the 1st house, we need to make our presence known. Venus’ sweet dalliance can
be very charming but taken too far borders on laziness – someone who sits and waits for
things to come to them. If well-aspected, this placement is an indication of a
harmonious early upbringing which endows the person with a positive sense of self and
optimistic outlook on life.

Venus in the 2nd
Obviously, Venus in this house has a love of money, not just for the security it brings
but because it allows them to purchase all those things they find beautiful and
worthwhile. A sense of well-being is attained by surrounding themselves with that
which they consider stylish and tasteful. They have an eye for beauty in the physical



and material world. Some may shun anything considered ugly or inharmonious, while a
more finely developed 2nd house Venus has the insight to perceive beauty, reason and
purpose in those things which others might scorn.

Their innate resources include a sense of fairness and diplomatic tact. They have a
knack for attracting what they need or value, so money, unless extravagantly spent,
should not be too great a problem. An income could be earned through ‘Venusian’
professions: artistic endeavours, modelling, the selling or marketing of beauty or
beauty-products, the diplomatic service, etc.

Taurus in the 2nd is sometimes too possessive of people and objects. Usually there is
a deep love of the natural world, physical comforts and the sensual side of life, as well
as practicality in money matters. Libra in the 2nd values gentility, refinement and social
niceties. The style and finesse with which an appetite is satisfied is more important than
the quantity which is consumed. Libra on the 2nd has a greater concern for the fair and
equitable distribution of money and possessions than Taurus there, who is worried
about having enough for itself.

Venus in the 3rd
Those with this placement have the ability to communicate in an easy, fluent and non-
threatening manner if Venus is not hampered by difficult aspects. They are sensitive to
the needs of those around them although some may try a little too hard to speak only
what they think will please others. People generally find it easy to communicate and
‘open up’ to someone with Venus in the 3rd, as if they sense the atmosphere of loving
receptivity this placement bestows. There is usually a fondness and appreciation of
brothers and sisters and benefits through them, although certain aspects to Venus (from
Pluto for instance) suggest an intense sibling rivalry or incestuous urges. Unless Venus
is difficultly aspected, the educational experience should be fairly enjoyable. There is
often a love of words, knowledge and languages, or the capacity to express the self
through some form of artistic medium. Weekend jaunts here and there are likely to give
pleasure and these people normally fit easily into different situations and environments.

Taurus in the 3rd may slow down the thought processes but when something is
learned it will sink in deeply and remain with them. It may be easier to digest
experience through the senses – how something ‘feels’ or ‘touches’ them rather than
what they actually think about it. Libra on the cusp or contained in the 3rd enhances the
ability to be persuasive, influential, and yet tactful in dealing with the immediate
environment. In the name of harmony and fairness, they will ‘weigh up’ what others say
or do. Libra here can see beauty in something which another person might overlook.

Venus in the 4th (and Taurus on the IC, and Libra on the IC)
The 4th house indicates qualities deeply embedded within the person. Those with Venus
there basically value and desire peace and harmony in their surroundings. They cannot
easily live in an atmosphere of strife, tension or discord, and in the end will do all that
they can to reconcile problems or smooth over differences. Satisfaction and fulfilment
can be found in making a home and in such domestic pursuits as cooking, decorating



and gardening. If not too badly aspected, Venus in the 4th suggests a comfortable
situation in the later years of life.

Venus carries with it the image of the beloved and all that is beautiful. One possible
interpretation of this planet in the 4th is that the father (or ‘hidden parent’) catches this
projection – he is made into the beautiful one. The boy-child may feel some rivalry or
jealousy. How can he ever be as good as Daddy, who has all the charm and grace, and
Mummy as well? The little girl may fall in love with such an enchanting father, in
which case the mother becomes the rival. Nonetheless, Venus in the 4th suggests a
positive family inheritance, both psychological and material. Sometimes good taste runs
in the family or there has been an artistic influence in the early upbringing. Often, there
is an interest in exploring the genealogy or family tree.

With Taurus on the IC or in the 4th house, the need for security is the foundation
upon which the life is built. A deep-seated, instinctive territorial nature expresses itself
in a powerful urge to have a home of one’s own. Regardless of how flippant the rest of
the chart might look, underneath there is a basic caution and conservatism. Those with
this placement are unlikely to disrupt or change situations unless there is an organic
sense of ‘rightness’ about doing so. Time is needed to fully assimilate events and
experiences. Any opportunity to spend more time relaxing in nature and just watching
the grass grow and feeling the soil under their feet strengthens and stabilizes them.

With Libra on the IC or in the 4th house, a person’s sense of balance and well-being
hinges on a good home environment and fulfilling relationships. The atmosphere in the
home can be one of sharing and creative exchange. There is a deep need to establish a
clear set of values, ideals and standards upon which to base action in the world.

Venus in the 5th
With Venus in the 5th, there is a natural urge to express the self in a creative or artistic
fashion. Even if a career in the arts is not pursued, some sort of creative outlet brings
greater personal fulfilment and well-being. In times of stress, picking up a paintbrush or
sitting down to write something may restore a sense of equilibrium and balance. The
motto of those with Venus in the 5th might be ‘If it’s worth doing, it’s worth doing in
style.’ Unless very difficultly aspected by the outer planets, the personal style and flair
is usually of a type which most people will find pleasing and endearing. For example,
the actor Richard Chamberlain and the singer Glen Campbell, who both claim a wide
public appeal, have Venus in the 5th. The glamorous actress Ava Gardner, born with
Venus in Scorpio in the 5th, literally got to act out (5th) her Scorpionic Venus. In a 1948
movie called One Touch of Venus she played a statue of the goddess come to life, who
brought love and havoc into the affairs of everyone she met.

Those with this placement are often ‘in love with love’ and romantic pursuits will be
high on the list of priorities. Some will only feel alive if they are in the throes of a great
romance with (of course) the most divine creature on earth. Hobbies, recreational
activities and trips to the theatre, cinema or art gallery help to ‘round out’ the
personality. In short, they love to play.

If Venus is well-aspected, children are likely to be a source of pleasure and



fulfilment. Parents with this placement will usually encourage any sign of their
children’s budding creativity – especially if their own artistic promise was stifled when
they were young. Taken to an extreme, the child may be shuffled off to dancing school
on Monday, acting class on Wednesday and piano lessons on Friday – whether the poor
kid wants to or not. Parents with Venus in the 5th need to be careful about
unconsciously setting up situations of competition or rivalry between children or
between themselves and their children in an attempt to find out just who is the fairest or
most talented of them all.

Taurus on the 5th emphasizes the enjoyment of the sensual side of life, creative
talents of a practical nature and hobbies like gardening and cooking. There may be
some difficulty letting go of children or creations. Libra enhances the appreciation of
the fine arts and the pursuit of all which is beautiful and aesthetic. Usually there is a
good relationship with children and young people.

Venus in the 6th
By house, Venus indicates those things we care about, are attracted to and appreciate.
The 6th house is concerned with the running of everyday affairs, issues of work and
service, and attending to the proper functioning of the body. Combining Venus with this
house we come up with someone who actually enjoys vacuuming the sitting room, has a
tendency to fall in love with co-workers, and derives great satisfaction from the daily
rituals of mundane life. Even brushing the teeth can be done with style.

Frivolity aside, Venus in the 6th takes pleasure in developing and fine-tuning their
talents, skills and abilities. It’s not good enough to just do a job, it must be done
beautifully. I have done quite a few charts for people with Venus in the 6th who have
careers in the field of health, beauty and fitness, and many others who put their artistic
talent to practical use as designers and draughtsmen. One in particular was concerned
with designing kitchen products which were both functional and beautiful. More
generally, there is the desire for a harmonious work atmosphere and the capacity to
bring good feelings into this area.

Normally, the person feels the importance of developing a good relationship with the
body. If health problems arise, these could be due to over-indulgence or some
imbalance in the diet or life in general that needs consideration.

While Venus in the 6th enjoys the more mundane and everyday tasks of life, some
may become obsessive about things – such as not being able to make love if the ashtray
is too full. They are usually able to apply themselves to work involving precision and
detail. The image of the beloved (Venus) might be projected onto servants, co-workers,
milkmen, telephone repairmen, dental hygienists, and even pets. (I did a chart for a
woman with Venus in the 6th who took her poodle to the hairdresser every third Friday.)

Taurus on the 6th enhances the stamina and gives a practicality and determination in
meeting everyday life. There is a natural enjoyment of the physical body and the
diversity of the natural world. Libra on the 6th emphasizes the capacity to be tactful and
diplomatic in dealing with colleagues. They may, however, antagonize others if they
demand the same kind of perfection from fellow workers that they ask of themselves. Ill



health might result if the work environment is too stressful.

Venus in the 7th
For those with Venus in the 7th, the image of the beloved and that which is beautiful
‘lands’ on close partners and the whole arena of partnership in general. They only feel
alive, happy, satisfied or complete if they are involved in a relationship. They can most
easily see their beauty and value when it is reflected back from someone else. In other
words, Venus in the 7th hands Aphrodite’s girdle over to their partners to slip into:
seeing the beloved as perfect and beautiful helps them to feel good about themselves.

As usual, there are both pluses and minuses. If we perceive someone in a very
positive light, then we increase the likelihood of getting back what is best in that
person. However, no partner can always live up to the expectations which Venus in the
7th might place on them. The other person is not all Venus: sometimes he or she will do
something which isn’t that beautiful or graceful and then the 7th house Venus is
disappointed or turns critical. The same applies to the relationship itself: it can’t always
be all hearts and flowers and Venus in the 7th (especially if aspected by Saturn or Pluto)
will have to learn to accept the hard work entailed as well.

The 7th house describes how we interact with society in general, and Venus there
would be very at home in the opulent drawing rooms and salons of early twentieth-
century Paris (Marcel Proust had Libra on the 7th house cusp). What we bring to others
is also shown by the 7th, and Venus offers gifts of art, beauty, diplomacy and fashion.
This placement also promotes success in legal matters.

Taurus on the 7th emphasizes constancy, fidelity and devotion in relationship with a
tendency to possessiveness and jealousy. Marriage may be sought for the security,
financial gain or physical closeness it offers. Libra on the 7th has a very strong urge for
relationship and the need to develop tact and make adjustments for it to work without
going along too much with others just for the sake of being included. (Don’t forget,
with Libra on the 7th, Aries is on the 1st.) The partner is more likely to be idealized or
there may be an endless search not just for Mr or Miss Right, but for Mr or Miss
Flawless.

Venus in the 8th
Venus in the 8th ‘cares about’ what happens between people, and wants to ensure that
anything which is shared or exchanged is beautiful, appropriate, beneficial and
valuable. It favours business partnerships and the accruing of money and possessions
through marriage or inheritance.

In the bedroom, Aphrodite’s magic girdle transforms into a provocative corselet
(possibly black leather if Venus is aspected to Pluto). Her seductive charms find no
better mode of expression than in the intimate whispers and caresses of love. Venus in
the 8th has a way of receiving and responding to others which relaxes them, making
partners feel secure enough to loosen inhibitions and restraints. In this sense, those with
Venus in Scorpio’s natural house, whether innocently or not, entice others to give to
them. Hearts open, secrets are exposed, and bank accounts are put in their name.



There is also a love for that which is mysterious or esoteric and a desire to probe for
anything hidden or subtle, as if what is found on that level will make them more
complete. (Seance parlours are probably filled with people with Venus in the 8th
contacting their dear and departed wherever they might be.)

Taurus on the cusp or contained in the 8th has a flair for handling money and making
business deals. There are usually concrete financial gains through marriage. Sex could
be used as a way of manipulating or entrapping others. Libra on the 8th draws beauty
out of people. There is a natural urge to relate closely with others and to treasure and
value what others have to give. Both Libra and Taurus in this house give a sixth sense in
partnerships which enables those with these placements to use tact and timing
advantageously.

Venus in the 9th
For many of us, sitting down to contemplate the meaning and purpose of existence
results in a headache. But rather than just struggling endlessly with religious and
philosophical issues, those with Venus in the 9th usually derive greater happiness, peace
and well-being from their belief systems. Somehow it wouldn’t be right for a 9th house
Venus to project anything too nasty onto God: in Venus’ eyes only that which is fair,
just and equitable deserves to be worshipped. Whether their God manages to live up to
these high expectations will be shown by the aspects to Venus and other placements in
the 9th. (For instance, the brilliant, influential and tormented German philosopher
Nietzsche had Venus in the 9th but Leo on the 9th house cusp and its ruler, the Sun,
opposed to Pluto and squared by Saturn.)

There is usually a love of travel and adventure and the promise of beneficial and
pleasurable experiences to be had through them. Possessing a natural appreciation and
fascination for the diversity of life expressed in the customs of different cultures, they
might fall in love with a country other than their own, emulating its taste and style.
Some may even marry someone foreign or a person met on holiday or abroad. This is
also a good placement for teachers and educators who will be able to communicate the
love of their subject to their students. Venus in the 9th easily and graciously enthuses
about those things which they find valuable. Writers and artists with this placement
invariably share their philosophy of life through their creations. Among those born with
Venus in the 9th are the adventure writer Jack London, the controversial author Norman
Mailer, and the lyrically profound Thomas Mann.

On a lighter note, relationships with in-laws are usually favoured if Venus is well-
aspected in the 9th. If we understand a planet in a house to indicate the way in which
we should meet the affairs of that house, then Venus here suggests that in-laws can be
handled with tact and diplomacy.

Taurus in the 9th probably seeks some practical justification for philosophical beliefs
and needs a philosophy which works in the everyday life. Because of the discomforts
often entailed in being away from the home base, there will have to be some good
reason to travel. Libra on the 9th has a strong sense of justice and fairness and may
require a philosophy which has love of others as its main premise or which envisions



humanity living up to some rather high ideals. Those with Libra on the 9th might also
be fatally attracted to anyone with a foreign accent.

Venus in the 10th (and Taurus on the MC, and Libra on the MC)
If we understand the 10th house to be how we wish to appear to others, then Venus here
is not likely to go out of the house looking too dishevelled (or without her trusty girdle
on). Those with this placement want to be seen for their beauty, taste, grace or style.
Professions are sought which afford them the opportunity to look beautiful or exhibit
these traits: the artistic field, the entertainment business, the diplomatic service, the
fashion world, etc. Two examples of Venus in the 10th in the field of show business are
Jack Nicholson, who has become a kind of middle-aged male sex symbol with a
reputation for knowing how to enjoy himself; and Brooke Shields, the teenage star who
portrayed the lead in an appropriately named Venusian vehicle Pretty Baby. Regardless
of the chosen career, Venus in the 10th needs and desires a harmonious working
situation doing a job they value with people they like. Aspects to Venus may show other
parts of the character which render fulfilling this aim more difficult.

Venus in the 10th suggests a warm, close tie with the mother, although certain
difficulties may present themselves. If Venus is projected onto the mother, then she is
experienced as the one with a monopoly on sexual power, taste and style. The little girl
with this placement may feel inept or awkward next to such a mother, or turn her into a
rival with whom she competes for attention. The boy-child may be as receptive to the
mother’s sexuality as he is to her maternal qualities. Mother then carries the image of
the beloved and other women will have to compete with her.

Taurus on the MC or in the 10th may like outward displays of status and power.
They can be possessive of their position and authority, showing great determination in
the pursuit of career once they get going. Of the charts I have seen with this sign on the
MC, some work as landscape gardeners, architects, builders and along the lines of
massage and therapeutic body-work.

Those with Libra in the 10th or on the MC often work best in partnerships or in joint
efforts with other people. They have much to offer in any work situation, but may be
too exacting in demanding that others equal their service, precision and dedication. This
sign shows up on the MC in the charts of certain diplomats, lawyers and politicians
which I have seen as well as those who work in the arts, beauty and fashion fields.
Those with Libra in this house are usually sensitive to how others might help them
further their own social and career ambitions.

Venus in the 11th
A planet’s house position instructs how the person can best approach life in that area.
Those with Venus in the 11th, then, should encourage and develop a natural inclination
to unite and co-operate with others in friendship and group situations.

They have the capacity to bring positive influences into any group they join and
receive the same back in return, although aspects to Venus will show if other things get
in the way of this happening. Usually there will be a fondness for social life and cultural



outings. If Venus is difficultly aspected by Jupiter or Neptune, too much energy may be
dissipated in social situations and greater discrimination is required.

The image of the beloved and that which is beautiful might be projected onto a
friend or a group. Some people with Venus in the 11th only feel beautiful if they are
seen with and accepted by the ‘right’ group or crowd. There may be an eye to personal
social advancement through choosing groups or friends who are helpful in achieving
their goals and objectives in life. Unlike Neptune, Venus doesn’t always put on her
girdle for nothing back in return.

For others, however there is an interest in those groups or organizations which
propose to better or improve life in some way. Venus in the 11th gives and expects quite
a high standard of friendship or group involvement and may be disappointed if others
don’t share or live up to these ideals. Sometimes, issues of rivalry and competitiveness
may surface with friends or in group situations.

Taurus on the cusp of the 11th or contained in this house could cling too closely to
friends and exhibit an overdependence which is suffocating to others. They tend to be
loyal, and once given, their friendship lasts a long time. A sense of security is gained
through their friends and any groups to which they might belong. Services offered are
often of a practical nature.

Libra in the 11th loves to entertain and be entertained by others. They are drawn to
friends with whom they share similar tastes and have an intellectual rapport. Unlike
Taurus here, they are more careful to allow others the same degree of space they want
for themselves. A friendship may turn into a romance or vice versa. Either Venus in the
11th or Libra there may fall in love with someone they meet in a group situation or who
has been introduced to them by a friend.

Venus in the 12th
According to Greek myth, Aphrodite had a rather unusual beginning to her life. Saturn
castrated his father Uranus and cast the dismembered phallus into the sea. The severed
genitals floated on the waters and produced a white foam from which Aphrodite rose.
At first it seems strange that the goddess of love and beauty is born as a result of such a
ghastly and despicable conflict, but it is this side of Venus which is often evinced in the
12th. Sometimes it is through pain, wounding, suffering and loss that we grow more
beautiful, tender, poised and loving.

Also rippling through the 12th house is the urge to transcend separateness and merge
with something greater than the self. Venus in this house suggests a love of letting go,
of abandoning the self to something numinous, unbounded and divine. (Plato once said
that ‘Love is the pursuit of the whole.’) In the 12th, Venus thirsts for an undefinable and
immeasurable kind of beauty, something which offers total fulfilment, or perhaps a
remembrance of a bliss long past.

Trying to quench this thirst by looking for this kind of love and beauty with another
person, those with Venus in the 12th yearn to give themselves to a lover as one would to
a god or goddess. Besides being a lot to ask of anybody, something deep inside still
nags that adoration of just one person is not enough. With Venus in the 12th, a love is



needed that knows no boundaries. Roberto Assagioli, the founder of Psychosynthesis,
once said something which might help Venus in the 12th out of her predicament: ‘If you
appreciate everything, you remain free.’1 In that case, if you lose a person or it is not
opportune to have the thing you love, there is always something else you can enjoy.
Perhaps this is the task of Venus in the natural house of Neptune and Pisces – to love
everything.

Venus in the 12th also suggests the love of anything subtle, hidden, intangible or
hard to grasp. Spend a rainy afternoon listening to Debussy (Venus in Leo in the 12th)
and you will glimpse something of the nature of this placement. Some may literally fall
in love with a person who isn’t free, and in true 12th house fashion the relationship may
have to be kept hidden, lived within restrictions, or ultimately given up. (In the 12th,
Venus loves to make sacrifices for love.) Venus in the 12th also denotes the love of
what other people reject; the love of the downtrodden, the underdog, the criminal who
really has a heart of gold, the person nobody else understands, etc.

On a more mundane level, Venus in this house favours associations with institutions.
Some may work in art galleries or museums, while others administer to those less
fortunate in hospitals. In two instances of Venus in the 12th I have seen, one worked as
a drama therapist and the other as an art therapist helping people to recover after severe
breakdowns. In another case, I did the chart of a woman with Venus in the 12th who
said her three years recuperating in a mental home were some of the happiest in her life.
Sometimes it is within the confines of prison walls that people discover a talent for
painting, writing or sculpting. Venus in the 12th can also work behind-the-scenes
designing sets or costumes, or putting on the star’s make-up.

Any energy in the 12th house hangs in the balance – how we use that principle may
determine what degree of joy or pain we meet in life. If Taurus is on the cusp of the
12th, being too materialistic or stubborn can cause problems, but not enough
practicality or down-to-earth common sense could also be the tragic flaw. Libra on the
12th suggests that over-sensitivity to other people might give trouble, but not taking
others’ needs or points of view enough into consideration is also a danger. If a 12th
house Taurus can learn to hold fast when necessary but let go when appropriate, an
important lesson in life will be learned. Similarly, Libra on the 12th needs to learn to
love and include others and yet keep their emotions in balance, and a little space to
themselves.

Notes – Chapter 21
1. Assagioli cited in Ferrucci, pp. 191-2.



22.

MARS AND ARIES THROUGH THE HOUSES

The planet Mars is associated with the Roman god of the same name and the Greek god
Ares. In Greece, Ares, the god of war, was thought of with terror and generally disliked
for his furious and unmanageable disposition. The story goes that Hera was so outraged
that her husband Zeus had given birth to Athene on his own (she sprang forth fully
grown from his head) that she then produced Ares without recourse to him. In this
sense, Ares (Mars) is born out of anger and spite, an image of his mother’s fury and
rage. In battle, he was accompanied by his squires Deimos (Fear), Phobus (Fright), and
Eris (Strife). Not a very jolly band. Contrary to what you might expect, he was hardly
ever victorious in battle and often made to look very silly. When Athene effortlessly
knocks him over with a stone, the wounded Ares clumsily falls to the ground screaming
and crying like ten thousand men. Even two ordinary mortals manage to capture Ares
and hold him prisoner in a bottle for thirteen months (not unlike the way we ‘bottle up’
or repress our own anger). Not only made to look ridiculous in battle, he fares just as
badly in love: when seducing Aphrodite he is embarrassingly caught in the act and
entrapped in a net set by her husband Hephaestus. Invited to watch the spectacle, the
other gods come to mock and laugh at the mighty Ares’ plight. (Had the Greeks spoken
Yiddish they would have called Ares a ‘klutz’.)

By contrast, the Roman Mars was respected and honoured, and assumed an even
more elevated position in the pantheon than the great god Jupiter. The Romans
worshipped Mars not only as a god of war but also a god of vegetation and fertility, a
god of spring. The Latin root of his name is associated either with mar or mas, words
which signify ‘to shine’ and describe the generative force. He was called Mars
Gradivus, from the Latin grandiri – to become big, to grow. This time he is
accompanied by his squires Honos (Honour) and Virtus (Virtue).

The Grecian disapproval of Ares as coarse and brutish and the Roman reverence of
Mars as honourable and virtuous are indicative of two aspects of aggression: those
forms we deplore and those forms we must not disown if we are to survive and grow.
Mars can represent brute force, blind rage, impetuosity and a recklessness which makes
us look stupid, but it can also be understood as a kind of healthy aggression – the
positive impulse to comprehend and master the external world. Healthy aggression is
the drive in living matter to express itself, the power which impels a seed to germinate.
A positive Mars enables us to achieve independence, gives us the ability to stand our
own ground and make choices which are self-directing. A healthy Mars provides the
impetus to learn new skills and is the very basis of achievement in life (we grapple with
an issue, we attack a problem, we master a difficulty).

The house position of Mars indicates where either one or both these forms of



aggression and assertiveness will be operating. The distinction between the two may not
always be clear: the child who rebels angrily against authority is being aggressive but is
also manifesting a drive towards independence which is a vital and necessary part of
growing up. By house, Mars shows where we need to attack life, take risks, be daring,
and affirm our initiative, freedom and independence. It is also that area of life in which
we may be prone to belligerence, passionate over-stimulation, accidents, too great a
degree of competitiveness, violence and an insatiable drive for power. If Mars is
‘bottled up’ in a house, this may give rise to a sense of hopelessness, helplessness and
subsequently depression via that sphere of experience. We also might provoke others
into anger in that domain.

Aries on the cusp of a house or contained within it is similar to Mars in a house. The
individual should meet that area of life with courage and vigour in order to unfold his or
her unique potentialities and fulfil the life-plan. If we are depressed or psychologically
down, we might try turning our attention to the house with Aries on the cusp as a means
of ‘getting things started again’.

There will be a relationship between the house with Aries on the cusp (or within it)
and the house containing Mars. For instance, if Mars is in the 12th house and Aries is
on the cusp of the 10th, the person might develop his or her enterprise and power
through a career (Aries on the 10th) which involved work within an institution (Mars,
rules of Aries, in the 12th).

Older astrological textbooks assign Mars co-rulership of Scorpio; therefore any
house with Scorpio in it may be influenced by the placement of Mars in the chart.
Personally, I feel Pluto suitably serves as the sole ruler of Scorpio.

Mars in the 1st
According to the myth, Ares (Mars) sprang forth fully grown from the body of the
outraged Hera. Similarly, those with Mars here may find that their anger, fury or actions
‘leap out’ before anything can be done to stop them. At worst, they can be impatient
and furious with the slightest obstacle blocking their way and exhibit a constant need to
prove their power. Rather than turning their own bodies into a battlefield or taking out
their aggression on whoever comes along, they will benefit from some sort of regular
physical exercise or competitive sport. The disciplines of tai-chi, yoga, karate or the
various body-therapies (which allow, and work creatively with, the cathartic discharge
of anger and tension) are also recommended.

At best, those with Mars in the 1st are authentic, spontaneous and refreshing.
Without appearing too blunt or rude, they can be honest and self-directing, possessing
the courage to respect their own priorities rather than playing a role for somebody else.
They are meant to meet life ‘head on’. Rather than waiting for something to happen,
people with this placement should take the first step.

Mars in the 1st is most noticeable in a fire sign but even if placed in watery Cancer
or Pisces, they will still evince a strong presence whether they speak up or not. If those
with Mars in this house appear shy and withdrawn, then other aspects in the chart are
impinging on its expression and these should be examined. In some cases, they may



need to be reminded that it is permissible to ask for what they want in life, rather than
covertly manipulating others into giving it to them.

The urge to be the masters of their own destiny is usually strong and they will
grapple against all odds to satisfy their desires. The Duke of Windsor, who abdicated
the crown to marry the woman of his choice, was born with Mars in Aries in the 1st.
Ernest Hemingway, obsessed with proving to the world that he was the epitome of a
‘real man’, had Mars in Virgo in the 1st.

Mars in the 1st often calls for a fair degree of stamina, strength, fight and
independence even very early in life.

Mars in the 2nd
If we understand a planet in a house to define the way in which a person can best
approach that area of life to unfold the potentiality, then Mars in the 2nd calls for
aggressive, assertive and daring action in the pursuit of money and possessions. They
may have to take risks and chances to attain what they so desperately want.
Unfortunately, this ‘go out and get it quality’ may prove counter-productive if their
manner is too rash, impatient and abrupt. Machiavelli is reputed to have been born with
Mars in the 2nd.

More generally, this placement describes a strong desire nature, with an urgency to
enjoy the material world and the realm of the senses. While Venus in the 2nd turns on
her seductive charms to allure and entice others to give her what she wants, Mars in this
position operates more on the premise that ‘I want what I want and I want it now’. If
those with Mars in the 2nd don’t take the initiative to go after what they want
themselves, then they reach in the cupboard for their favourite whine: ‘Give me, bring
me, buy me, take me!’ They also might take out their aggression on objects, smashing a
prized vase to underline a point during an argument.

On a more positive note, their innate inner resources are characterized by courage
and initiative and they could excel at any work which required these qualities. They will
defend and fight for what they value, although they could also force what they value
onto others.

For them, money and possessions are concrete symbols of their power and strength.
In fact, we can understand these people better if we realize that they are basically trying
to assert and affirm their individual existence, ‘alive-ness’ and vitality (Mars) by
showing the world just how effectively they can go out and get what they want (2nd).
(Even so, I would still keep my distance from them on the first day of Harrods sale.)

Mars in the 3rd
By asserting themselves on the environment (usually through their words, opinions,
knowledge or points of view), people with Mars in the 3rd affirm their power, vitality
and existence. Although many of us are afraid to say what we really think, this is
precisely what those with Mars in the 3rd must do – if possible, of course, with tact, the
universal antidote to a bad case of Mars.

Some may be afraid that being clear and direct is too rude or blunt. As a result,



instead of saying what they really want to say, they resort to dropping large hints and
heaving great sighs. Unfortunately, in any house containing Mars there appears to be a
kind of storage tank which can accommodate only a certain amount of unexpressed
thought, feeling or action before it blows up and makes a huge mess. Ultimately, with
Mars in the 3rd, it is better to say what one is feeling or thinking rather than suppressing
anything for too long.

There is usually an active, eager mind with quick repartee. A piercing intellect, a
strong vocabulary or sharp verbal ability may be stockpiled as the necessary weapons
with which to mount any advance. Although sometimes those with a 3rd house Mars
may ‘ram’ their thoughts down another person’s throat, their words also have the
capacity to arouse others to action. Then again, they may spend as much time fighting
their own thoughts as challenging those of other people. They can attack any subject of
interest with zeal, and there is a natural desire to talk or write about whatever excites
them. Some may ‘blow off steam’ through writing down their thoughts and feelings. A
good form of self-therapy might be composing an angry letter to someone with whom
they are furious, and then ripping it up.

Those with Mars in the 3rd find their own initiative and learn how to assert
themselves by constellating power games with others in the early environment.
Therefore this is one of the prime placements for conflicts with siblings, teachers and
neighbours. However, when caught for something they shouldn’t be doing, rather than
owning responsibility, they may exclaim that it was their brother or sister, something
they read, or a video nasty which put them up to it.

Because of a restless and highly strung nervous system, these people should strive to
develop some degree of control and caution, especially on any form of journey or
travel. Mars in the 3rd may also need to ‘siphon off’ excess energy through sport and
exercise. Some may find tinkering with the car or other mechanical things relaxing.

It is an old adage that ‘thoughts have wings’. Mars in the 3rd is powerful on the
mental plane and any strongly felt thought could affect the environment whether or not
it is directly spoken or acted upon. In a sense, the mind is like a sharp instrument or
tool, which if handled in the right fashion can be highly effective in cutting through
anything; but if employed incorrectly it can be dangerous and destructive, both to the
self or others. Regardless of the aspects to Mars, it is ultimately this person’s choice
which way the implement is used.

Mars in the 4th (and Aries on the IC)
Anything in the 4th house may be hidden from view. But, sooner or later, the drive to
express the self latent in a 4th house Mars can no longer remain underground. And like
anything which has been locked away for any length of time in the basement, it is not
likely to be very pretty when you finally let it out. This placement suggests a hidden
aggressiveness and anger that needs to be brought to the surface, analysed, reintegrated
into the personality, and consciously directed to constructive ends. At first Mars may
appear as intense fury and rage, erupting volcanically all over the place, surprising both
those who spew it and anybody within close range. Once the Mars is ‘freed’, however,



those with this placement eventually grow more adept and graceful at expressing and
honouring everything that is going on inside them – the nasty bits as well as the good.
Reconnecting to a 4th house Mars, like drinking a well-known beer, enlivens the parts
other planets can’t reach. A kind of juicy vitality which wasn’t there before pervades
much more of the life.

When most people come home to roost after a hard day’s work, they just want to
take off their shoes, mix a drink, put their feet up and watch television. But for those
with Mars in the 4th, it is after they’ve ‘clocked off’ that their day begins. It is within
the home sphere and personal life that they are likely to evince their greatest drive and
enterprise, not to mention their domineering and aggressive streaks. In this respect they
are not unlike a certain type of creature called a cichlid fish. These war-like fish need
other fish on whom they can vent their aggression. If a pair of them is isolated from a
tank containing other fish, then the male will turn his aggression towards his spouse and
offspring. Similarly, those with Mars in the 4th may displace the anger they feel but
don’t express to other people onto those innocently waiting for them back at home.
Well-mannered and docile at work, they may come home spoiling for a fight.
Aggression can be displaced in other ways however: digging in the garden, building an
extension on the house, provoking someone to get angry at them, or falling down the
stairs, etc.

The father (or hidden parent) may be experienced as powerful and masterly, or as
pushy, argumentative, sexual and potentially violent. Those with this placement may
have to do battle with the father in order to reclaim their own sense of autonomy and
freedom of expression. They may not succeed in this until they establish a home of their
own and there is usually a strong urge to do so. Often they are descended from a
background of ‘survivors’, and they, too, possess a mighty resilience – they can only be
held down for so long before they bounce back fighting.

With Aries on the IC or in the 4th, there is a deep need to find the self in one’s own
right rather than to rely on the tradition or patterns of the family of origin. As those with
Mars or Aries at the Nadir probe further into themselves, they will discover untapped
reserves of energy and creativity yearning for a purposeful outlet. Sometimes it is not
till later in the second half of life that they are free enough from ties and restrictions to
fully attend to the question, ‘But what do I want?’

Mars in the 5th
The 5th house is the house of play. And when Mars plays, there is no doubt who is boss
of the sandbox. The competitive spirit is very great, and if you build a bigger or better
castle than your friend with Mars in the 5th, watch out – you may end up with sand in
your eyes. Who said it’s not whether you win or lose, but how you play the game that
counts? Not likely somebody with Mars in Leo’s natural house.

And the same applies to life, love and creativity. It’s not good enough just to do
something – it must be done dramatically and with all the heart. On the plus side, there
is a natural vitality and enthusiasm which stamps the individuality on everything those
with Mars in the 5th undertake. They may not be another Picasso, but the picture they



paint is very special – at least to them. And who’s to deny it, if even for just a few days
or moments the act of creating from inside themselves has given them a greater feeling
for who they are or enhanced their sense of power, identity and vitality.

Often there is a love of competitive sport or feats involving some degree of daring,
risk or strenuous physical exertion. And with the same zestful and impulsive spirit, they
pursue the greatest sport of them all, the game of love and romance. Nor are they just
looking to make a match; nothing short of a whole forest fire will do. Provided those
with Mars in the 5th don’t frighten others off with their intensity, how soon the flames
of love are extinguished or whether the fire quickly spreads somewhere else will
depend, to a large degree, on the aspects and sign placement of Mars.

Children will catch something of the Mars projection. The initial enthusiasm to
produce a family will probably be very strong; but the daily drudgery and sacrifices
involved may be much less appealing. How can they paint pictures, take tennis lessons,
make love, go to the opera, and have the time to raise children as well? It’s not
surprising that people with this placement bear offspring with strong independent
streaks. The children would need to learn to stand on their own fairly quickly and
develop strong enough wills to combat and compete with the demands of the parent’s
5th house Mars.

Mars in the 6th
The possible manifestations of Mars in the 6th house become clearer if we compare and
contrast the ways in which the Greek Ares and the Roman Mars would approach the
affairs of this house.

First, picture Ares mounting an attack on the housework. Within ten minutes he
would have whizzed through every room and nearly all the corners as quickly as
possible, hopefully not knocking over too many things in the process. His motto might
be ‘A job worth doing is a job worth doing in a hurry.’ Or after losing yet another battle
with his sister Athene, he might immediately take out his rage 6th-house fashion by
furiously scrubbing the kitchen floor, yelling at a servant, or kicking the dog.

Ares would push his body hard. Besides exhausting himself continually chasing
around from one thing to another, he could attract accidents due to recklessness and
inner discord.

Although it is not like Ares, if he did hold in his anger, he would probably suffer
regularly from headaches or more generally turn his aggression against the body. (With
the planet Mars in the 6th, feelings and impulses register very strongly in the body and
must find some sort of expression if it is not going to short-circuit and blow a fuse.)

Of course, Ares would be a big hit at the office. Unlikely to tolerate someone lording
over him and probably exhibiting a tendency to run roughshod over co-workers, it’s
fortunate that he prefers to attend to his job independently.

In striking contrast, the Roman Mars handles the affairs of the 6th house very
differently. Seeing every little thing he does as a reflection of who he is, he would take
fastidious pride in his work down to the last detail. Concerned with achieving
independence and self-sufficiency in the running of everyday affairs, he would



welcome the opportunity to learn new skills, and gain great satisfaction mastering tasks
which challenged him.

Although he could be obsessive at times about the body’s smooth functioning, much
energy would be directed into caring for and maintaining the body. He recognizes the
body as the vehicle through which he can express himself and prove his power, and
naturally he wants to keep it in good shape.

Somewhat reminiscent of his Greek counterpart and due to a strong belief about how
something should be done, the Roman Mars (in the 6th) may experience difficulty and
impatience with co-workers, although in the right situations a joint effort could prove
stimulating. But usually Mars in the 6th wants to run the show himself. He might,
however, fight battles for workers’ rights or stand up for a colleague whom he believes
is being mistreated. Mars in the 6th might equally support an animal rights group.

In general, a well-aspected Mars in the 6th tends to act like the Roman Mars. But
difficult aspects to Mars in this house (hard angles to it from the Sun, Jupiter, Uranus
and Pluto especially) are more likely to manifest, initially at least, as the Greek Ares.

Mars in the 7th
By house, Mars shows the area of life in which we need to take action and assert
ourselves. In the 7th, this gives rise to a strong urge to define the identity and gain a
sense of power through relationships with other people. I have seen many instances of
this placement in the charts of young men and women who rush haphazardly into
marriage – often inspired by the first taste of sexual passion or partially motivated by
the desire to escape from the restrictions of a difficult or oppressive family background.
Through marriage they believe they will find themselves in their own right. More often
what they do discover is that they have replaced one form of tyranny with another. The
initial sexual attraction may die down, but the power games are still there.

Some people with this placement come on so strongly at first that they frighten
others away. Conversely, there may be an attraction to someone with obvious Mars
qualities – the bold, straightforward, dynamic hero or heroine who can relieve them of
the burden of making their own decisions in life. After a while, they may become angry
or resentful at the bossiness of the other person and attempt to take back the power they
once so freely handed over. But it is unfair to condemn Mars in the 7th only to
relationships filled with strife and contention, although some people seem to thrive very
well on a diet of fireworks. There are many examples of Mars in this house which
manifest in lively, stimulating relationships where the partners positively ‘spark off’
one another, while still allowing the mate to maintain personal freedom. However, there
is the danger of taking their aggression out on those closest and most dear to them, or
not so subtly arousing other people to anger and thereby conjuring a justifiable excuse
to vent their own. Those with Mars in the 7th also appear to need fairly constant
reassurance of their worth in the eyes of other people. They are also likely to be the first
to stand up and defend another person if they believe that he or she is being unjustly
accused.



Mars in the 8th
Those with Mars in the 8th come alive in joint enterprises where they can give and
receive all they can. Usually there is a shade more subtlety to Mars in this house than in
his other domains, although the clumsy Greek Ares may evince his characteristic
impetuosity by rushing into hastily conceived financial deals. Some people with Mars
in the 8th will gain a sense of honour and virtue by standing up for their deeply felt
beliefs, and will try to challenge and convert others who don’t share the same values.
Others with Mars in the 8th find the prospect of appropriating the values and
possessions of another person much more rewarding and enticing. A difficultly aspected
Mars could indicate fights with the marriage partner over joint resources, battles over
legacies and inheritances, trouble with a belligerent tax-inspector, and conflicts with
get-rich-quick business partners, so some degree of caution is advised in these areas.

But it is in the more intimate arena of the bedroom that an 8th house Mars most
clearly exposes itself. Their passions are strong, but sexual expression may be more
than just a means of relieving built-up physical tension: for many, sex is a contest and
Mars is determined to be the victor. Again, we can understand these people better if we
realize that in acting this way they are attempting to affirm and define their identity and
power. The principle of the Sun distinguishes us from others, but we need Mars to
prove our point; and whether, in the 8th house, the point is given or taken, Mars here
likes to be in charge. With a little bit of thought it’s not hard to appreciate that there is
more to a person’s sexual taste than meets the eye; and fortunately or unfortunately for
some, Mars in the 8th may take out their aggression in the bedroom. Or due to guilt and
ambivalence, Mars in the 8th may resort to its second favourite battle-cry: ‘They made
me do it,’ blaming others for forcing them into situations they somehow help to
contrive.

By meeting it in others or through their own selves, those with Mars in the 8th often
discover and have to grapple with the darker emotions of blind lust, envy, greed,
jealousy, etc. The need or ability to transmute these seething feelings into a more
constructive expression depends, to a large degree, on the aspects to Mars. If Mars is
difficultly aspected by the outer planets, it is usually most pressing that the raw,
primordial side of Mars be rechannelled in other ways.

Sometimes there is a burning interest in the esoteric or the occult. Caution should be
taken when exploring or experimenting in anything mediumistic in nature: there is the
danger of projecting their own anger and aggression onto something ‘out there’ and
then experiencing the disowned quantity as turning around and pursuing them.
Although Mars can hardly be defined as covert, in the 8th he does have a kind of
detective-like ability to probe subtly and persistently into what is hidden or secret. If
those with this placement sense something wrong or askew in a relevant person or
situation, for better or for worse, they are not easily able to let it rest.

The Scorpio Dylan Thomas wrote, ‘Do not go gentle into that good night.’ In deaths
and transformations of a physical or psychological nature, Mars in the 8th will usually
follow that advice.



Mars in the 9th
We might think there is a chance to breathe some fresh air when we enter the realm of
the 9th – the house of religion, philosophy, long journeys and higher education. But
history has shown that in many respects this is the stickiest and bloodiest battlefield of
them all.

With Mars in the 9th, God is not just sought after, but hunted. Those with this
placement usually pursue and stand by strong philosophical or religious beliefs.
Believing that their version of the truth is the only one, they might promote and defend
it with a crusader-like zeal. And some might say why shouldn’t they, since it is probably
formulated in such a fashion as to support and justify their deepest desires and passions
in life anyway. Although the image of God may be an angry and fiery one, He is
probably cast enough in their own likeness to understand and indulge those occasions
when they may have to break His rules. For a few with this placement, God even
manages to accept killing, raping and pillaging provided that these things are done in
His name. In this way, some people with Mars in the 9th are culpable of displacing
responsibility for acting out their own cruel drives onto God. Generally, before they
undertake something they like to have the justification of some higher law behind them.

However, others may express a 9th house Mars by being angry at God Himself. Like
Tevya in Fiddler on the Roof, they shake a fist at heaven or go even further, and start
telling God how He should run the show.

There is often a strong urge to travel, and sometimes they may just ‘pick up and go’
on the spur of the moment. A woman with Mars in this house might develop a powerful
attraction to a foreign man, or someone who offers to broaden her horizons in some
way. In like manner, there may be a passion for one particular culture.

Mars in the 9th will also influence the sphere of higher education. Expansive
knowledge on one or two subjects gives them a sense of power and authority. The Mars
may be projected onto an institution of higher learning or one particular professor with
whom they do battle.

Careers which offer a chance to preach – such as writing, teaching, publishing or the
ministry – may attract those with Mars in this house. The Gauquelins found Mars in the
9th prominent in the charts of champion sportspeople, and top executives, military
leaders and physicians.

Finally, on a more mundane level, Mars may describe something about their
relationship with in-laws. This, like the proverbial mother-in-law, speaks for itself.

Mars in the 10th (and Aries on the MC)
Mars is one of the most ambitious of all the placements to be found in the 10th. There is
a need to be seen as powerful, strong and assertive, and a career which brings these
qualities to the fore may be sought. Those with this placement want to be remembered
as having done something worthy of attention – honourable, if possible, but otherwise if
there is no other way. In some cases, the ambition of Mars can turn into a ruthless
clawing to the top or a situation where the means justifies the ends: John Mitchell, one
of Nixon’s cabinet indicted in the Watergate affair, has Mars in Gemini (the sign of



communication) in this house.
If the 10th house is taken to be the mother (or shaping parent), then the archetypal

principles symbolized by Mars would have passed in some way between her and the
offspring with this placement. In a positive light, the mother could have been
experienced as masterly and powerful, thereby modelling to the child how to be strong
in the world. Difficult placements to Mars, however, suggest a more turbulent
relationship. The mother might have been seen as pushy and contentious, and the child,
therefore, may have grown up loathing her power or fearing her wrath. Later in life, the
way this person relates to the world will be influenced by the early experiences with the
mother. The world may be seen as a place in which one has to fight to get along, or a
position of autonomy is sought so that one is no longer in such a subservient role. At
some stage in life, children with this placement may have to battle with the mother to
free themselves from her control. Some may succeed to such a degree that roles are
reversed and they end up the ones running their own mothers’ lives. Later problems
with bosses and authority figures in general are often evinced with Mars in the 10th.

Aries on the MC or in the 10th is similar to Mars there. In this case, the house
position of Mars will reveal more about the kinds of qualities a person brings into
public view. Work which allows for initiative, leadership and a fair degree of autonomy
is recommended.

Mars in the 11th
In the 11th, an active participation with friends, groups and organizations provides the
outlet for the passion, energy and assertion of Mars. The aspects to Mars in this house,
though, will reveal just how welcome this involvement is.

Mars, the essence of personal initiative, is curiously placed in the group-minded
11th. While those with Mars in the 11th may extol the rhetoric of teamwork and co-
operation until they are red in the face, they often have a difficult time adjusting or
compromising their own strongly felt ideas and opinions with others. While friendly
Venus effortlessly blends and harmonizes for the sake of peace and love, Mars is
concerned with imposing its way despite all odds. Good old Mars, spoiling for a fight as
usual and in this case choosing one of the most appropriate houses in the chart to find it.

Mars in the 11th represents a dilemma which is actually inherent in all of us. By
nature, we are social beings (11th) and yet we all strongly feel the urge to assert our
identity as autonomous individuals (Mars). We form groups on the basis of common
interests, ideals and aims, but it is precisely in those groups where there is a close
identification among members that the most bitter disputes arise. (The early Christian
Church is one example.) As soon as we grow too closely identified, our autonomy is
threatened and the urge to split, differentiate and disrupt naturally makes itself felt. And
Mars, schooled in the arts of aggression and self-assertion, is just the man for the job. In
the end, however, the trick for Mars in the 11th is to unite with others for a common
purpose and yet not lose its individuality.

Mars in the 11th can play other roles as well. Those with this placement often have
the ability to arouse the group to action. Conversely, being a member of a group or



crowd may give Mars the exact justification needed to do something he might never
allow himself to do on his own. In this sense, Mars in the 11th might displace personal
responsibility onto the group. Those with Mars in this house may take up a cause which
they feel will improve society in some way or champion the downtrodden. Care should
be taken that such crusading is not done so belligerently that more harm than good is
done.

The possible interpretations of Mars in relation to groups also apply to personal
friendship as well. Mars may be the first to stand up to defend a friend, but in the name
of autonomy he may be the first to attack or fend off that same person. Some with this
placement could try to run and direct the lives of their friends in an overbearing manner,
while others will accuse friends of trying to manipulate and boss them. Other examples
of the likely effects of Mars in this house have been covered in the general discussion of
the 11th house in Part II of the book.

If well-aspected, Mars in the 11th is usually quite clear about achieving its goals and
objectives in life. Problems occur if Jupiter or Neptune, in particular, cloud the
judgement, influencing Mars to aim unrealistically or dispersing his energy
unproductively. Saturn and Pluto aspecting an 11th house Mars may also set up
stumbling blocks which Mars may have to learn to work his way around.

Mars in the 12th
Mars is at his most manic and inconsistent in the 12th house. Sometimes, as the
Gauquelins found, he is out there in full gear for all to see; at other times, he is just
nowhere in sight. And if this isn’t enough to confuse you, he reappears now and again
behind different masks. It’s not like Mars to be so elusive – somewhere along the line
he’s picked up a trick or two from Neptune.

In the 12th, the natural aggression of Mars may sometimes be disguised as a vague
and passive dissatisfaction with life: nothing feels right but he can’t put his finger on
what’s wrong. At other times, Mars resorts to one of his favourite disguises, The
Incredible Sulk – whining endlessly about everything that’s wrong but refusing to do
anything constructive about it. Having driven everyone around the bend, he
miraculously snaps out of it as soon as he has managed to make someone else express
his rage for him. Mars in the 12th may consciously deny his anger and assertion and yet
vicariously enjoy violence and have dreams or fantasies of a destructive nature. Hidden
somewhere in his psyche is an incendiary device which can flare up in sudden episodes
of uncontrolled behaviour. To complicate matters, Mars in the 12th may be the one to
act out the unexpressed stirrings and anger of those around him: the battles he ends up
fighting may not even be his own.

Mars needs to affirm his sense of personal power and identity: in the 12th this is
sometimes paradoxically achieved by giving over his will to another person or higher
cause. Although the study of successful sportspeople has shown that it is in this house
that Mars comes first and wins his gold, there is no other domain in which Mars can so
graciously put himself aside for other people. The ‘me-first’ attitude associated with
this planet may be replaced by a sense of ‘You-first and I’ll help you’ or ‘Rather than



just doing it for me, I want to do it for everyone.’ While this sounds noble, and often is,
sometimes the abnegation of personal responsibility to serve a greater purpose inspires
disastrous consequences. John DeLorean, the untiring business executive apparently
determined to promote his large-scale schemes at all costs, was born with Mars in Aries
in the 12th.

The problem with Mars in the 12th is not really a lack of fight but the fact that the
troops are sometimes deployed in the wrong direction. Rather than using his energy to
face life ‘head on’, Mars in this house frequently devises highly effective strategies for
retreating from it altogether through escapist or self-destructive behaviour. In whatever
house Mars is placed, he has the urge to go out and get what he wants: in the 12th
house, the desired goal may be the dissolution and transcendence of life’s limits and
boundaries. And just as Venus in the 12th can’t love enough, Mars in this house feels
that he can never do enough. According to Lois Rodden in Astro-Data II: The American
Book of Charts, the actor George Sanders (Mars in Cancer in the 12th) featured in
ninety movies in thirty-six years but killed himself because he was bored.

Those with Mars in the 12th might benefit from actively investigating and
interpreting the meaning of their dreams. As with Mars in the 4th and the 8th, there is
also the ability to perform actions in a covert manner or for reasons not immediately
obvious to others. Sometimes institutions will play an important part in their lives,
although anger and hostility may be unleashed on nurses, prison wardens or some poor
librarian who can’t find the book they want. Other possible effects of Mars in the 12th
can be found in the general discussion of this house in Part II of the book.



23.

JUPITER AND SAGITTARIUS THROUGH THE HOUSES

The planet Jupiter is associated with the Roman god of the same name, and the Greek
god Zeus. In Greek mythology, Zeus was the majestic god of the heavens, ruling
limitless and expansive space. Residing in the upper ethers of the air and on
mountaintops, Zeus was believed to be omniscient, a god who knew and saw
everything. From his high perspective, he viewed life on earth and dispensed both good
and evil, although he was mostly thought of as compassionate and benevolent. His daily
rounds included protecting the weak and innocent, unleashing thunderbolts on the
wicked for their own good, averting any catastrophes which might come up in heaven
or on earth, and squabbling with his jealous wife Hera, whom he felt restricted him too
much. Somehow, he also managed to make room in his already busy schedule for an
extraordinary number of extra-marital affairs. Acting on the spur of the moment and
with a zest equal to 6,000 i.u.’s of Vitamin E a day, he enthusiastically chased after
various goddesses, mortal women, and the occasional smooth-skinned young boy.
While not always successful, he nonetheless appeared to take great delight in the pursuit
of his ever-changing objectives, transforming himself into a bull one day, a swan the
next, and a shower of gold another. A consummate actor, he loved playing roles. While
producing numerous children as a result of these escapades, he left the job of raising
them to other people.

The question is: how do we squeeze all this and more into any one house? Needless
to say, the house in the chart containing Jupiter is an area of life in which we require a
great deal of room to grow and explore. It is where we are not content with that which
is routine or humdrum, but rather where we are propelled to experience life more fully
and completely. Whether or not a Hera is there to restrict us, we are not necessarily
unhappy with what we already have in that domain, but we still want more and there
always seems further to go. Jupiter is ultimately more interested in what might be
around the corner than the reality at hand.

As you might imagine, problems in Jupiter’s house generally stem from
overextending ourselves in that area. Wherever Jupiter is in the chart, we never know
what is enough until we know what is more than enough. Also, because Jupiter viewed
life from so far up, he didn’t always examine things as closely as he should have. A
difficultly aspected Jupiter in a house could indicate where we take action based on
misguided judgement or perspective, usually as a result of being overly optimistic or
too enthusiastic about what is possible. And like the promiscuous god, it is also the
sphere in which we may sow many creative seeds but not always stay around to attend
to their growth. We start something, but before we know it something else has caught
our attention.



We mustn’t forget Jupiter’s important role as the guardian of law and religion and the
noble protector of the people. The populace prayed to him for help, guidance,
inspiration, benevolence and preservation. His presence in a house makes us hopeful,
positive and expectant in that area of life as if with him there we are charmed and
protected. And if we entertain such positive feelings and good vibrations as these, it is
not surprising that we usually are successful in Jupiter’s sphere. A danger exists,
however, that we might sometimes feel betrayed if it happens that what we enthused
over doesn’t turn out to be as wonderful as we had hoped. But usually, even if we are let
down in Jupiter’s house, he still makes sure that we land on our feet.

The planet Jupiter represents the symbol-making capacity of the psyche and we
normally imbue the events and experience of the house Jupiter is in with great
significance. While this may give rise to histrionics, it is also through Jupiter’s house
that we glimpse a larger pattern, order or meaning to life. In his domain, we search for
the higher rules and laws upon which existence can be based and by which it can be
guided. Consciously or not, we look for God there, or endeavour to find within that
framework of experience ‘the Truth’ with a capital ‘T’.

Jupiter was prayed to as the Great Preserver of life and the Deliverer from battles
and plagues. Sometimes our very survival may depend on being able to give some sort
of symbolic meaning to an event or perceive its significance within a larger perspective.
The humanistic psychologist, Viktor Frankl, confirmed this function of Jupiter for
himself on the basis of his experience in a concentration camp: while interred in
Auschwitz, he observed that those who could impart some sense of meaning to the
agony they were having to endure were the ones most likely to survive.

Although aspects to Jupiter may distort just how clearly or reasonably we see the
‘truth’, the affairs of the house this planet is in offer us the belief in something greater,
the hope for something better, and the sense that life is not just a collection of random
events, but has meaning and purposeful intention. When our faith in life begins to falter,
it is by looking towards Jupiter’s domain that we may gain the inspiration to travel on.

Jupiter will influence any house with Sagittarius in it. Likewise, the effect of
Sagittarius on a house carries much of the same meaning as Jupiter in a house.

In older textbooks, Jupiter is given co-rulership with Neptune of Pisces. Therefore,
Jupiter may have some bearing on any house with Pisces in it. I personally feel that
Neptune serves the job as sole ruler of Pisces very well without needing Jupiter’s help.

Jupiter in the 1st
Accompanied by a fanfare and a drum roll, Jupiter in the 1st house appears on the
scene. The house placement of Jupiter indicates where we are open to higher
inspiration. Those with Jupiter in the 1st house of the self are natural philosophers who
attempt to answer some of the ‘big’ questions of existence. In whatever they do, they
have the ability to inspire and arouse new life and interest, throwing themselves into
something with great initial enthusiasm. Sometimes they are important social,
educational or religious thinkers, while others with this placement play out the more
sporty side of Jupiter, living the life of the adventurer or gambler. Some are the



‘trendies’ who are up on the latest styles and seen in all the right new places. There are
also the nature-loving 1st house Jupiters, who climb mountains to glimpse even more
expansive vistas. For some the world is their playground as they rove here and there,
encountering others, sharing what they have with them, and then moving on.

If we understand a planet in a house to indicate the best way to meet life in that area,
then those with Jupiter in the 1st should seek to expand themselves in ways associated
with its sign placement. For instance, Jupiter in Pisces should explore ways of opening
up the feelings; Jupiter in Aquarius will grow through expanding its understanding; and
Jupiter in Leo through increasing the capacity for self-expression. For instance,
according to one birth time suggested for him, the almost mythic and larger than life
superstar Mick Jagger was born with Jupiter in Leo in the 1st. Radiating his being
through his music and creative expression (Jupiter in the 1st rules Sagittarius
intercepted in the 5th house of creativity), he fills vast concert halls with his powerful
presence.

While Jupiter in the 1st wants to go further and faster and can envision far-reaching
goals, aspects to Jupiter might indicate other parts of the personality which hold the
person back or hinder the progress. It’s probably still best for them to view life as a
journey, even if they have to move along at a pace which is much slower than they
would like.

In some cases, an inflated sense of identity is one of the dangers of this placement.
Innately believing that they have so much to offer which is valuable, expansive and
worthwhile, there are those with Jupiter in the 1st who hold nothing back. An
exaggerated opinion of themselves may lead them to over-reach or extend beyond their
capacities. Sometimes there is a marvellous vision and inspiration but insufficient
discipline and concentration to follow something through to completion. Because they
so dearly want to free themselves from all restrictions, they may look for the easy way
out if the going gets tough.

If Jupiter is well-aspected, it is likely that the atmosphere in the early environment
was conducive to growth and positive self-development, enhancing their creativity and
playfulness. Sometimes it indicates travel or many changes of residence while still
young. Since Jupiter’s tendency is to inflate and expand, weight can sometimes be a
problem for these people.

Jupiter in the 2nd
Those with Jupiter in the 2nd may seek to expand their resources and possessions as a
means of gaining greater joy and fullness of life. Taken to an extreme, it could mean the
god Mammon is worshipped as the be-all and end-all of existence, or a religious or
numinous value is bestowed on monetary and material success. Some might see money
and possessions as a symbol of their worth and value. Certain objects may be treasured
because they inspire, communicate or symbolize something significant for them. The
value system in general (2nd) may be linked to their philosophical and religious beliefs
(Jupiter). Some with this placement perceive God’s touch in all the manifestations of
nature, glimpsing the underlying patterns and laws expressing through the form world.



The acquisitive instinct is heightened for those with Jupiter in this house and with
such a strong motivation, they usually succeed in the material realm. However, what is
earned may be spent as quickly as they make it. While they are usually generous,
difficult aspects to Jupiter suggest a wastefulness with money and possessions, or a
tendency to invest recklessly and unwisely. But should they fall flat on their faces, they
generally have the ability to ‘drum up’ money again – just when they are most ‘down
and out’, an opportunity comes along which saves them.

The 2nd house represents what constitutes security for us. With Jupiter there,
personal safety could be sought through abundance on the material plane; while, for
others with this placement, security might mean possessing higher knowledge or sound
religious beliefs. Paradoxically, some may feel most secure if they know that at any
moment they are free to get up and go. Innate resources include a natural enthusiasm,
an ability to inspire other people, and the capacity to impart practical meaning to life.
The desire nature is strong and usually they will believe that there are ‘higher’
justifications for their having what they so urgently want. Therefore, they don’t feel too
guilty satisfying their endless appetites. Money could be earned through Jupiterian
pursuits such as teaching, travel, the law, import-export trade, spreading religion, etc.

Jupiter in the 3rd
In the 3rd house, Jupiter has a great deal to say. At best, the energy and inspiration
which give rise to thoughts or words can be communicated and channelled to others,
who are then ‘fired’, enlivened and expanded by what those with Jupiter in this house
have shared or made accessible. At worst, they waffle on endlessly, more concerned
with the quantity of what they have to say than the quality, pausing now and then to
savour the rare genius of their insights.

Jupiter in the 3rd also expands the mind. While this may yield an over-abundance of
thoughts on any one topic or a mind which is literally all over the place, it also gives an
awareness broad enough to fit any one particular thing happening around them into a
larger framework or perspective. While focusing on something specific, they do not
lose sight of what is going on in the background and all around it. Some may hurry
through a book thinking that the sooner they are done with it the more quickly they can
read the next; while others may find that just one sentence is enough to transport them
on a journey to other worlds – and hence they never finish the book at all. Similarly,
there can be a tendency to ‘read too much’ into another person’s passing comment or
glance, and they end up making a Mount Olympus out of a molehill.

One of Jupiter’s main concerns is finding greater fulfilment. In the 3rd, knowledge
can be worshipped as a god who offers them increased joy and mastery over life,
inclining those with this placement to exhibit an almost insatiable need to learn things.
Sometimes this position is referred to as that of ‘the perpetual student’. For them, life is
a huge jigsaw puzzle, and the more pieces they can find to fit together the better. Each
time two parts click into place a kind of mental orgasm is experienced. Some may think
that they have to travel the world sixteen times over to achieve the ultimate release,
while others learn sooner or later that there is more than enough just happening between



the front door and the nearest travel agency.
Since those with Jupiter in the 3rd are expanded by whatever is around them, this

placement normally indicates a good relationship with brothers, sisters, neighbours, etc.
Sometimes there is a large number of siblings. However, difficult aspects to Jupiter can
manifest in fierce sibling rivalry or the hero-worship of an older brother or sister, and
later disappointments if too much has been expected of them. People who have
travelled or changed residences many times during childhood and adolescence often
have this placement of Jupiter as well. Usually, early schooling is not found too
threatening, but welcomed as an opportunity to broaden the horizons beyond what the
family has to offer. Writing, teaching, lecturing, study, travel and knowledge of
languages should all be encouraged.

Jupiter in the 4th (and Sagittarius on the IC)
At first, the hidden and insular 4th house seems an ill-suited domain for a sky-god like
Jupiter. However, true to his nature, he manages to make a very comfortable life for
himself in this sphere – provided that his home life does not fence him in too much.

I have seen many charts with Jupiter in the 4th in which the people were born into
aristocratic families or had a few well-known ancestors. Through the father’s line, there
is often the influence of a foreign culture in the blood. But even if they can’t claim
descent from Louis XVI, the last Czar of Russia, or the king of the gypsies, they inherit
a religious, philosophical or travelling nature through the background or early home
conditions. Like the genie in the bottle, residing deep within those with Jupiter in the
4th is a powerful and expansive spirit wanting to be freed.

They can invest a great deal of energy in establishing the home of their dreams, but
they had better ensure there is enough room in it to satisfy their need to move around.
Often they benefit from living out of the crowded conditions of the city, and in the more
natural and open setting of the country where views and vistas are unobstructed. (I
always picture them living on a ranch.) Some may travel from country to country
looking for their spiritual home. Rather than aiming for public or professional
recognition, they might devote themselves to work on the soul and inner growth. A
woman I know with Jupiter in Sagittarius in the 4th is a good example of this
placement. Born into an aristocratic home and a lady by birth, she now lives on a
spiritual commune in Canada. At first caught between the values of her family and
those preached by her guru, she moved back and forth from tea at royal garden parties
to washing pots at the ashram. But later, she realized that the best of these separate
worlds had something to offer each other. She has brought a renewed sense of spiritual
vision to her family while helping her fellow disciples to appreciate those more solid,
earthly values of the English tradition.

Jupiter in the 4th may colour the paternal relationship. In some cases the actual
father is confused with the image of god: he is seen as noble, majestic and larger than
life. Reflecting some of the other qualities of Zeus, the father might be experienced as a
promising figure full of potential and inspiration, but with an incorrigible roving eye
and bags full of wild oats. Sometimes the father will suppress the Jupiterian side of his



nature for the sake of providing the kind of structure and security expected of him; in
this case, the child with this placement may grow up with an irresistible urge to enact
what the father has not played out.

If Jupiter in the 4th is well aspected, there is an underlying optimism and faith in life
which will come to the fore as the person grows older. Generally, it favours a promising
old age filled with many interests and pursuits. Contemporaries may lag behind while
Jupiter in the 4th is still lively and progressive.

With Sagittarius at the IC there is usually the attempt to build the life on a clear
moral or philosophical framework. Sometimes they travel in childhood or grow up in a
religious family. If life comes to a standstill, they can renew themselves by strong acts
of faith or envisioning some new goal towards which to aim.

Jupiter in the 5th
William Blake, a Sagittarian with Sun conjunct Jupiter in the 5th house, wrote that ‘the
road of excess leads to the palace of wisdom.’ For those with this placement, more is
definitely better than enough.

The 5th house always enjoys expressing itself; but with Jupiter here, it has to be
done with panache and thunderbolts. Through any form of creative self-expression,
those with Jupiter in the 5th step into something more spacious, perhaps replicating in
their own creativity a sense of Divine creation itself. In other words, by being creative
they find ‘God’ in themselves.

The 5th house is the house of play and nobody plays quite like Jupiter. It’s hardly
likely that the sandbox is large enough (Malibu beach would do better), but their castles
must be bigger and more imaginative than the next fellow’s. Unlike Mars, who chases
you out of the sandbox altogether if you get in his way, Jupiter in the 5th is willing to
co-operate on joint ventures with his playmates, provided that he is the one to direct the
show. After all, his vision is really the most interesting and if he likes it then it has to be
best for everyone. Even if a friend slips him an idea or two, Jupiter will expand and
elaborate on it until it is totally his own.

Those with this placement should have no trouble filling their lives with hobbies and
artistic outlets which they find exciting and satisfying, provided that they stay with
these long enough to develop a fair degree of expertise. They like to test themselves
against life, and there is sometimes a taste for adventurous sports, games of chance, and
playing the stock market. For them to feel most alive, each new hurdle must be that
little bit bigger than the last.

With Jupiter in the 5th, a love of the amorous chase is highly evident. Naturally
romantic, they seek outlets in relationships and affairs. A case in question in the 1980s
was Prince Andrew, with Jupiter in Sagittarius in this house, who between flying
helicopters, pursuing actresses, blessing new ventures and dodging reporters was as
good a modern-day equivalent to Zeus as could be found. However, if Jupiter is
difficultly aspected, their perspective in respect to 5th house matters may be impaired
by their own subjectivity, excitement and over-enthusiasm.

Usually this placement indicates a good rapport with children, who grow up with a



philosophical or spiritual outlook or a strong desire to broaden their horizons through
travel and adventure. Some parents with this placement may project their own unlived-
out yearnings and wanderlust onto their offspring. In certain cases, this may spur the
child on to greater achievements; while in other instances, in an attempt to be a person
in his or her own right, the child may have to betray some of the parent’s ideals.
Nonetheless, the parent-child relationship usually survives intact. Jupiter was prayed to
as the protector of the people, and it is interesting to note that Princess Anne, the
President of the Save the Children Fund, was born with Jupiter in Pisces in the 5th.
(Jupiter rules horses and her equestrian abilities are shown by this placement as well.)

Jupiter in the 6th
Jupiter may seem a little cramped in the 6th house of health, adjustment to necessity,
and the management of mundane affairs. But regardless of what he does with his time,
he always manages to make something significant of it. Those with Jupiter in this house
seek (or should seek) to experience meaning in life through work and service to others.
Self-purification and the refinement of their skills and abilities afford them a greater
sense of well-being and satisfaction.

As in the 3rd house, Jupiter may manifest in different ways. In a bid to do as much
as possible for themselves or others, some might hurry through one task in order to
move quickly onto the next. Others, however, will apply themselves to any small matter
with the utmost concern and diligence. As in the traditional Japanese tea ceremony, a
tiny detail can assume cosmic importance.

Pride will be taken in their work and they usually have a great deal of energy to
contribute to any employment situation. Although Jupiter is prone to believe that his
way of doing things is best, they will normally have good relationships with co-
workers. workers. This position could indicate work of a Jupiterian nature – involving
travel, public relations, educational activities, the promotion of art, culture, sports,
religion, etc.

Some may burden themselves with too many duties in life and not leave the time to
care for their own bodies. Others may become almost obsessed with health or making
the body a better vessel for the spirit. These people might undertake any new diet,
technique or exercise which promises heaven on earth. In fact, the whole day may be
strewn with such activities: waking up at seven, taking six deep cleansing breaths, a
two-mile jog, a hot and cold shower, some yoga, meditation, and then a breakfast of
bran, grapefruit and one walnut. Although Jupiter in the 6th is normally associated with
excesses of food and drink, I have noticed the extremes of Jupiter just as frequently
operating the other way – week-long fasts eating nothing but grapes, for instance.

In a number of instances I have run across Jupiter in the 6th in the charts of people
who developed cancer, but in a good proportion of these cases they have overcome the
disease. By nature this planet represents over-production and in these cases, it is the
cells in the body which proliferate. There is an intimate relationship between mind and
body, or psyche and soma, and any planet in the 6th has an influence to bear on this
coupling. For instance, if too much time is spent serving others then a hidden



resentment could build up in the person: ‘When is it my turn?’ or ‘What about me?’
Sickness may be the only way the person can justify getting some attention for the self.
Jupiter asks that we grow, expand and develop in different areas of our life and if for
any reason we are avoiding doing so, then the cells in the body may assume the job for
us, and they start growing and expanding. Fortunately, it is not difficult for people with
Jupiter in the 6th to understand illness symbolically and see it in the context of their
lives as a whole. In the pursuit of a cure, they make significant alterations and changes
in their entire lifestyle and philosophy of living. Those with Jupiter in the 6th could be
the people who inspire others to participate more positively in their own self-help. By
contrast, a poorly aspected 6th house Jupiter is sometimes an indication of the kind of
person who falls ill on holidays or trips abroad.

Jupiter in the 7th
Examining Zeus’ own married life will help us to understand how Jupiter works in the
7th. He had a number of marriages before settling down (in a manner of speaking only)
with Hera, the wife officially associated with his sovereignty. One account relates the
story of their courtship in this way. It was the middle of winter and Zeus appeared
before Hera in the form of a cuckoo. The bird was so frozen by the cold that Hera took
it to her breast to warm it. At that moment, Zeus, eager as always to take advantage of
an opportunity, changed back to his usual form. Resisting at first, the shrewd Hera
finally consented to give way if he promised to marry her. Those with Jupiter in the 7th
may resort to all sorts of tricks or disguises to capture the partner of their choice.

The marriage was not an easy one, mostly due to Zeus’ philandering and Hera’s
passionate jealousy. This dynamic often replays itself in the relationships of those with
Jupiter in this house. One partner gets to be the faithful and obedient one while the
other justifies running free-range. Sometimes the roles will reverse overnight. In the
few cases in which Hera decided to enjoy herself, Zeus was instantly back at home
complaining about his wife’s absence. Similarly, Jupiter in the 7th suffers from a classic
freedom-closeness dilemma. They want their independence to explore different facets
of life, and yet they want their security as well. (On an archetypal level, spirit as
symbolized by Jupiter yearns to be free of the restrictions of matter represented by
Hera, and yet spirit needs matter through which to express itself.) Ideally, those with
Jupiter in this house do best with partners who share and understand their urge to have
other interests outside of the relationship.

Jupiter in the 7th can manifest in other ways. They may project Jupiter onto a partner
and look for somebody to play God to them. In this sense, they are prey to anyone who
promises them the world, and liable to disappointment when they only get Blackpool.
The partner can reflect Jupiter in other respects – he or she may be foreign, prestigious
and influential, religious or philosophical, spendthrift, or a lovable rascal who
perpetually says one thing and does another. Most positively, the partner can bring
warmth, generosity, good faith, material wealth, optimism and an expansion of
awareness into the life of those with this placement. Conversely, the person with Jupiter
in the 7th can offer these same qualities in return and more often than not the



relationship is beneficial to both people’s lives. Even if a partnership fails, there is the
abiding hope of a better one just around the corner. If those with Jupiter in the 7th never
marry, it is usually because they are reluctant to be tied down and lose alternatives.

The 7th house describes our relationship to society in general. Jupiter there favours
social and communal interaction as a natural means of broadening and expanding the
horizons in life. Well-aspected, Jupiter in this house inclines towards success in legal
matters.

Jupiter in the 8th
Jupiter in the 8th can translate literally into expansion through other people’s money.
One woman I knew with Jupiter in Leo (conjunct Pluto) in the 8th worked as a ‘go-go’
dancer in a Hollywood discotheque in the early 1970s. A middle-aged self-made
millionaire who attended the club took a genuinely fatherly interest in her. Absolutely
no sex was exchanged, but he bought her a home of her own in fashionable Laurel
Canyon. Jupiter protects and looks after us in whatever house he is placed. In the case
of the 8th, he does this through other people’s resources.

Jupiter in the 8th can indicate a financially beneficial marriage, good business
partnerships, windfalls through inheritance, and a tax inspector you regularly play golf
with and allow to win. If Jupiter is not too badly aspected, those with this placement can
trust their sensitivity to future trends in the market place and follow successfully any
intuitions they may have about the direction in which a venture or event is heading.

Less mundanely, people with Jupiter in the 8th seek expansion and greater meaning
in life through sharing and exchanging what they possess, believe in and value with
what other people have and hold dear. They can sometimes see a kind of truth or beauty
in another person which somebody else might miss. Naturally other people will respond
to Jupiter’s faith and openness by feeling comfortable relaxing and letting themselves
go with them.

With Jupiter in Scorpio’s natural house, partnerships may be sought as a way of
transcending individual boundaries and self-limitations. For Jupiter, sexual intimacy can
be understood symbolically as two people merging to become something greater than
what each one is individually. However, hard aspects to Jupiter can show excessive
sexual appetites and a certain Don-Juan-like constant need for new experience in this
area. On the other hand, I have seen difficult aspects to Jupiter in the 8th reveal a person
who has trouble reconciling his or her philosophical and religious beliefs with the
sexual drive. Jupiter in this house may also have such high expectations of what sex
should be that they are disappointed if bells don’t ring and mountains don’t move every
time they make love.

In the 8th, Jupiter looks for meaning in what is hidden, taboo or mysterious and their
religious and philosophical beliefs may be tinged with the metaphysical or occult. They
will push open a door that others prefer to leave shut just in case the answer to life lies
behind it.

Periods of breakdown and transition are usually weathered in good spirit, often
bringing their innate faith and optimism to the fore. A crisis can be seen in the broader



context of the whole life, and understood as a potential turning point or opportunity for
change and growth. Like Peter Pan, they may believe that even to die must be a great
adventure.

Jupiter in the 9th
According to myth, Zeus’ first wife was Metis, the goddess of Wisdom. She was
pregnant with Athene when Zeus was warned that he would be dethroned by any child
of his which Metis bore. In order to save himself, he swallowed both Metis and the
unborn Athene in one gulp. As the saying goes, ‘We are what we eat’, and in this way
Zeus came to embody supreme Wisdom in himself. Later on, after a splitting headache,
he safely gave birth to Athene on his own and she became not only one of his favourite
children but also a goddess of Wisdom in her own right.

The story offers insight into how Jupiter can best function in the 9th, his own house
and the natural domain of Sagittarius. Metis, the first goddess of Wisdom, is a threat
and cannot be allowed to give birth to anything. Only when she is taken back into the
self – that is, digested and well thought over – can Jupiter in the 9th give birth to a
greater wisdom which it is safe to love and allow to exist.

In other words, with Jupiter in the 9th, a little knowledge, not properly integrated
with the rest of the personality, can be a dangerous thing. In extreme cases, some people
with this placement think they know all there is to know and will justify whatever they
wish to do on the basis that ‘if God didn’t want me to do it he wouldn’t have put that
thought into my head.’ James Earl Ray, the assassin of Martin Luther King, was born
with Jupiter in Aries in this house. The mass murderer Richard Speck (see page 142)
had Jupiter in Gemini there. Jupiter in the 9th is also found in the chart of someone
known as ‘the Mayfair Boy’, who robbed Cartier of London as a kind of joke. In short,
those with Jupiter in its natural house may get carried away by what they think, and
fanatically worship their own philosophy and beliefs as a kind of law unto themselves.

Because Zeus swallowed Wisdom, he came to embody it and those with Jupiter in
the 9th also often exhibit the kind of knowledge which can attribute meaning and
significance to even the most unbearable agonies they may have to endure. They will
travel far and wide in search of basic laws and truths upon which to guide their
pilgrimage through life. Provided they do not lock themselves up in an ivory tower of
mental abstractions, they will inspire others with their vision and insight. Those with
Jupiter here can journey to the furthest reaches of the mind or even into outer space but
what they discover is of little use to anyone unless they come back down again and use
what they have learned practically.

Along with philosophy and religion, travel and higher education will be seen as the
ways of expanding awareness and finding meaning in life. It would make sense to
encourage a person with this placement in any of these directions. If other aspects in the
chart help to ground the Jupiter, they make excellent teachers, writers, lawyers,
managers, coaches or public relations people. The Gauquelins found Jupiter on the 9th
house side of the MC in the charts of successful actors who can convey experience
vividly and clearly to others. Vivien Leigh, William Holden and Robert Redford were



all born with Jupiter in this house. If well aspected, a beneficial rapport with in-laws is
also suggested.

Jupiter in the 10th (and Sagittarius on the MC)
The ancient Greeks believed that if Zeus appeared to a mortal dressed in all his
splendours and bedecked in his full array, then the poor earthling would be turned to
ashes just at the sight of the god’s radiance. Similarly, those with Jupiter in the 10th
want to be seen for all their power, brilliance and leadership abilities. When they step
out of the house and into the public eye, they don’t intend to slip by unnoticed.

It is through career, status and recognition that they seek meaning and fulfilment in
life. In some cases, fame itself is worshipped as something numinous and divine. Often
they can rise to good positions in reputable professions such as law, education, banking,
politics, corporate management, etc. Their careers may involve travel or international
connections. Others may be actors or exponents of religion and philosophy. The choice
is varied but no matter what occupation they are in, they bring with them a high degree
of energy and enthusiasm, vision, insight and the capacity to organize others. They can
work well with people, but probably do best if they have a fair degree of authority and a
lot of room in which to manoeuvre. Usually, they are sought after for posts and will not
find too many obstacles in the way to being successful. Arthur Schlesinger Jr, the
historian who won two Pulitzer Prizes, was born with Jupiter in clever Gemini in the
10th. Franz Schubert, the Austrian composer, had Jupiter in musical Pisces there. Other
examples of internationally successful 10th house Jupiters are Victor Hugo, the French
writer noted for his humanitarian philosophy, with Jupiter in Leo in this house; the
gifted sculptor Rodin, whose work The Hands inspires us to look upward to heaven;
and Herman Melville, with Jupiter in Aquarius, who led a life of travel and adventure,
and epitomized the quest for God and wholeness in the hunt of the great white whale
Moby Dick.

The image of the mother will be reflected by Jupiter in this house. In certain cases I
have seen, she has been experienced as dramatic and theatrical, adept at manipulating
others through her emotional dramas. Sometimes she has a far-reaching interest in
religion and philosophy which makes her seem as if she is not really of this world. She
could be foreign or from an influential or well-known family background. The child
may experience and worship her as something larger than life and some daughters with
this aspect may feel competition and rivalry with such a mother. On the positive side,
the mother could be a source of inspiration and guidance, with helpful advice about
meeting life and yet not saccharine and over-protective. With this kind of mother, the
child feels confident about encountering the world and those in authority in general.

Sagittarius on the MC or contained in the 10th house is similar to Jupiter there.

Jupiter in the 11th
The god Zeus had the task of looking after the well-being of the populace. Similarly, the
planet Jupiter, extending our awareness beyond the self-centred concerns of Mars,
reminds us of the larger social context in which we exist and have a part to play. In this



respect, Jupiter is quite at home in the 11th house.
The people prayed to Zeus for help, guidance and protection against harm, and those

with this placement may be sought by friends and groups to provide the same sort of
inspiration and support. Conversely, their own horizons and understanding of the
meaning of life are broadened and expanded through social interaction. They may
assume the role of a guru, hero or heroine in the eyes of friends or groups, or find
themselves looking to a friend or group to be their protection and salvation.

Jupiter in the 11th will normally join clubs or organizations which promote
humanitarian and egalitarian causes or which promise growth and expansion for
everyone involved. Usually they are in tune with new currents and progressive social
trends. Difficult aspects to Jupiter may indicate high expectations and ideals, and
disappointment when the group fails to solve all their problems or doesn’t succeed soon
enough in eliminating the woes of the world. Undismayed, however, they will move on
to the next cause or organization in the hopes that a new-found formula will be the key.

Jupiter in this house suggests an ever-expanding circle of friends, often of varied
cultures and nationalities. For some, life’s significance only comes to fruition if their
diaries are fully booked and they are having to choose between Mick Jagger’s birthday
party or an invitation to St Moritz for the weekend. Sometimes an over-involvement in
social activities or too great an entanglement in the lives of their friends may dissipate
their energy and detract from applying themselves in other areas of life.

Both Jupiter and the 11th house are concerned with becoming more than we already
are – therefore, these people are usually not short of goals and objectives in life, and can
almost always be seen looking ahead. As soon as one objective is attained, another one
appears in its place. A narrowing down of goals or more discrimination in choosing
which ones are worth following may be necessary if they are not to spread themselves
too thinly. If they shoot their arrows too high, these may come back down on them; if
they aim in too many different directions at once, they don’t know where to shoot first.
It’s dizzying just watching them. However, because there is usually such a strong faith
that they will and should achieve what they want, life can’t help but support them
accordingly. Often, friends or groups share this faith in them and their goals, and will be
helpful in their realization.

Jupiter in the 12th
The poet Hölderlin wrote that ‘where there is darkness, the saving powers also rise.’
This is one of the most important ramifications of Jupiter in the 12th – just when things
seem the most hopeless and bleak, Jupiter arrives out of nowhere and salvages the
situation. Those with this placement may feel as if they have a guardian angel who
appears in the nick of time with a shiny new ‘get-out-of-jail-free card’.

But should we put this down just to luck and good fairies? What really sustains and
rescues those with Jupiter in the 12th is a deep faith in the benevolence and significance
of life, and an openness and willingness to receive whatever it has to bring them. In any
house in which it is placed, Jupiter is looking for meaning in life; but in the 12th, that
meaning is not found in any outer event or external reality, rather, it exists nascently



within the self. Through the meaning and significance they choose to attribute to an
event, those with Jupiter in the 12th can turn negative experiences into positive ones,
and obstacles into blessings.

Jupiter’s house is where we are looking for the truth. In the 2nd, this may be sought
in values, money or possessions and in the 7th through partnerships; but in the 12th, the
truth is found within the self, on the level of the unconscious mind. A willingness to
turn the attention around 180 degrees and explore the inner imaginal realm of dreams
and symbols will help those with Jupiter in the 12th find the kind of truth they are
seeking, and contact the inner ‘wise person’ inside each and every one of them. The
breadth and scope of infinity, that bigger picture Jupiter craves to see, can be found in
the vast interior recesses of the psyche – a world beyond time, space and all boundary.
Meditation, stillness, prayer, retreat, music or art may be the path into that world.
Imagine Jupiter’s joy when he finally arrives there.

Running around desperately hunting for their joy in all other directions, many people
with this placement will look everywhere else but inside for their fulfilment. Reckless
behaviour, over-indulgence in alcohol and drugs, manic theatricality, hypocrisy, general
imprudence and other such negative traits may be the ‘self-undoing’ of a 12th house
Jupiter.

Jupiter in the 12th can be the channel through which inspiration and healing flow
and therefore those with this placement have much to offer working within hospitals,
prisons and various charitable institutions. The expanded vision which dawns in times
of trouble not only provides hope and inspiration for themselves but will guide others
through difficulties as well. I have seen this placement in the charts of a number of
gifted counsellors, psychics and healers. Flowing aspects to Jupiter in the 12th also
bode well for those who are institutionalized for any reason. Benefiting from the care
and protection they receive, they can turn the experience into a positive one, or else
they will probably not have to stay confined for any longer than necessary.



24.

SATURN AND CAPRICORN THROUGH THE HOUSES

Whereas Jupiter evokes a sense of expansion and optimism in the house in which it is
placed, Saturn elicits almost the polar opposite experience. Rather than feeling that life
is essentially benevolent and trustworthy in that area, we anticipate difficulty,
disappointment and restriction in Saturn’s domain – and consequently approach this
area with fear and caution. We often revel in a sense of freedom and limitless
possibilities in Jupiter’s sphere, while Saturn’s domicile is where we face restrictions
and boundaries and a nagging sense of duty, responsibility and the ‘oughts’ and
‘shoulds’ of life.

The old tyrant is one of the faces of Saturn. Afraid that his own children might
overthrow him, Cronus (the Greek equivalent of Saturn) ate them. In this respect,
Saturn’s house placement is where, due to conservatism or fear, we don’t allow our own
creative impulses to have free reign. Dreading the unknown, the untried and anything
new, we maintain the status quo in that area of life, even if what already exists there is
not all that wonderful. Self-critic and self-effacing, we worry so much about making a
wrong move in Saturn domain, that for safety’s sake, we restrict our actions severely.
Like Cronus, by inhibiting, judging and censoring ourselves we devour the offspring of
our own creative expression.

Cronus wielded a sickle, bringing to mind the proverb ‘as ye sow, so shall ye reap’
of which his own life is an illustration: having castrated and dethroned his father
Uranus, Cronus himself was toppled later in a coup led by his own son Zeus. Similarly,
in the chart, the planet Saturn represents exact and undeviating justice. We squirm and
suffer if we neglect or avoid what Saturn requires; but he duly rewards us for any effort,
hard work, persistence and patience we do put in. We may attempt to disguise or
alleviate the pain associated with a lack of fulfilment in Saturn’s house by denying the
importance of that area of life. Sooner or later, however, our sense of inadequacy or
incompleteness there hits us squarely where it most hurts.

More than a tyrant, Saturn is also associated with the archetype of the Wise Old
Man, a kind of Celestial Schoolteacher, who employs pain as a messenger to inform us
of those aspects of ourself which need attention and development. Running away from
that sphere increases rather than diminishes the discomfort; but listening to what Saturn
is trying to teach or show us gradually transforms our sense of inadequacy into feelings
of increasing completeness, solidity and worth. By facing Saturn’s challenge, we
strengthen ourselves and are rewarded with greater knowledge and fulfilment. As a
result, we later become teachers in the very area of life we have had the most difficulty
mastering. The incomparable German poet Goethe (born with Saturn rising in Scorpio)
grasped the true essence of this planet in a single line: In der Beschränkung zeigt sich



erst der Meister: ‘It is in self-limitation that a master first shows himself.’ Saturn, like a
thorn in a donkey’s side, spurs us on to develop certain qualities and characteristics
which we probably would not have bothered developing unless forced by internal or
external pressures to do so.

The mountain goat is another symbol of Saturn and we are turned into one in the
house where Saturn is found. In its laborious efforts to ascend to the top of the
mountain, the goat encounters many ups and downs, but eventually it reaches its goal.
Before taking each new step, the goat makes sure it has a solid footing in the one
before. Positive qualities such as careful and cautious thinking, tact, perseverance and a
healthy acceptance of reality, duty and responsibility are all to be found in Saturn’s
terrain.

Saturn in a house is similar to having Capricorn on a cusp or contained within a
house. The house where Saturn is sited will influence any house with Capricorn in it.
For instance, Dr Elisabeth Kübler-Ross was born with Saturn in Scorpio in the 8th
house and Capricorn on the cusp of the 11th. She is renowned for her in-depth
workshops (11th) about coping with death, dying and bereavement (8th).

Saturn is a co-ruler of Aquarius and may also have an influence on any house with
Aquarius in it. In Dr Kübler-Ross’ chart, Aquarius is found on the cusp of the 12th
house – her pioneering work has been done primarily within hospitals and institutions.
However, in general, the influence of Uranus appears to be stronger on Aquarius than
Saturn.

Saturn in the 1st
Those with Saturn in the 1st house are reluctant about approaching life at all. They
cautiously venture out expecting the worst and are invariably worried that they won’t
meet the mark. And yet they have to challenge themselves. It’s like having a little man
on their shoulders who repeatedly reprimands: ‘I’m sorry, that’s just not good enough –
you know you can do better.’ They imagine that others are constantly judging and
assessing them, when in actual fact it is their own self-criticism which gives the greatest
problem.

Saturn in the 1st may experience the physical body itself as awkward, gross and
uncomfortable. Or they feel that their personalities are inadequate and lacking in social
graces. Because of their difficulty in feeling easy and relaxed, they may present
themselves in an austere or withdrawn manner. Or fearing that unless they are careful
they might look silly, they develop a most dignified stance and posture in all they do.
Even if they appear frothy and superficial on the outside, they are likely to be masking
something insecure and problematical. Others may interpret their lack of confidence
and reticence as cold and unfriendly.

Usually they have (or can develop) a good sense of responsibility and a willingness
to work hard in life. This may stem from a need to prove their worth to the world – a
desire to receive some sort of collective validation of their ‘okay-ness’. For these
reasons, they may be ambitious, exhibiting a steely determination to make something of
themselves.



Very often, the early life has been experienced as difficult or restricting. They may
have felt the childhood environment as unsafe or unsupportive of their free expression
and personal creativity, as if they were squashed every time they stepped out of line.
Others may have been lumbered with worries and responsibilities inappropriate to their
young age. Later on in life, they can usually make up for the fun and spontaneity they
missed as a child.

Physically, those with Saturn rising are sometimes on the lean side, and often have a
distinguishing facial bone structure. If Saturn is within a few degrees of the Ascendant,
the birth may have been a difficult one as if the person was actually resisting
incarnation. All new phases in the life may be met with the same degree of caution,
trauma and fearful expectation. And yet, if they set their goals sensibly and realistically,
they usually manage to achieve their objectives in life.

Saturn in the 2nd
Saturn’s placement in the chart indicates where there is the expectation of difficulty,
limitation and testing. In the 2nd, insecurity and feelings of inadequacy are experienced
in the sphere of money, possessions, values and resources. Believing that their sense of
worth or security cannot be provided by others, they have a pressing need to ‘make it on
their own’. Even if they marry into or inherit money, they still gain greater satisfaction
from what they earn themselves. As in the case of Prince Charles with Saturn in Virgo
in the 2nd, some may be born into money and yet feel ‘watched’ or tested for their
stewardship: that is, how wisely and effectively they put the money to use.

Although financial stress is not a very pleasant situation, sometimes it does serve as
an impetus to force people to develop more of their skills and potentials than if money
were no problem. I have also seen cases where those with Saturn in the 2nd accumulate
an enormous amount of money and possessions and yet still feel anxious and threatened
about their security. For this reason, this position of Saturn might indicate ‘the hoarder’
– everything needs to be guarded and kept in vaults for fear that it might be snatched
away.

On a deeper level, those with Saturn in the 2nd are often unsure of their own innate
worth and value, or lack confidence in their ability to deal effectively with the material
world. Some may compensate for this by endeavouring to prove themselves through
conventional outer hallmarks of success: ‘I must be okay – I’ve got a nice house in the
right neighbourhood and two cars in the garage.’ Others disguise their concern about
these things by belittling the importance of money and the material sphere of life in
general.

The inner resources of Saturn in the 2nd are those of cautious planning, tact,
perseverance and patience. Developing these qualities will prove productive. Wherever
Saturn is in the chart is where we have the potential to turn difficulties into strengths.
Through facing the challenges of the material world and finding their own worth and
value in this way, those with Saturn in the 2nd are spurred on to greater achievements
and a deeper appreciation of life in general.

One example of this placement is Guru Maharaji, who came to the United States



from India at the age of fourteen. Saturn is in Sagittarius in his 2nd house and he earned
his money through teaching his religion and philosophy in a foreign country
(Sagittarius).

Saturn in the 3rd
One of the main issues for those with Saturn in the 3rd is expressing themselves to
people in a way that can be understood. The early environment may have felt inimical
or dangerous to their safety and therefore not conducive to easy and open exchanges
with others. As a result, they may walk around harbouring the belief that nobody
understands what they are talking about, or hold back feelings and thoughts for fear of
being misinterpreted or having these used against them. They might appear shy, aloof,
arrogant or stupid when really they are just uncomfortable communicating.

Such insecurities about their articulateness and intelligence have various
repercussions. Compensating for a sense of inadequacy in this area, they might try to
prove themselves by developing a precise and exact verbal or mental style: Saturn in the
3rd often manifests the kind of serious and orderly thought processes linked to the
logical and rational left brain. Others disguise their awkwardness in 3rd house matters
by becoming anti-intellectual, and putting others down who are too ‘stuck in the head’
as uptight or ‘pseudo’. They may have great difficulty making ‘small talk’ or constantly
engage in babble in order to avoid revealing what is really going on inside their heads.

Whereas those with Jupiter in the 3rd operate happily and easily within the
immediate environment, eager to see what waits for them around the next corner, Saturn
in the 3rd limits a person’s free expression of movement. This may stem from an early
childhood experience of an environment that didn’t feel safe or allow such flexibility.
Sometimes they have suffered a crippling sense of restriction or loneliness while
growing up. If children are kept too much in harness during certain stages of
development (the primate phase) their natural curiosity and desire to explore, imitate
and learn skills will be greatly diminished.1 Those with Saturn in the 3rd may benefit
from therapies or techniques which enable them to re-experience the early kinds of
movements and mobility denied them for one reason or another.

I have seen many instances of Saturn in the 3rd where a lack of siblings gave rise to
feelings of deprivation and isolation in childhood. At the same time, some people with
this placement report experiencing their brothers and sisters as burdens and restrictions.
In the case of those with Saturn in the 3rd being the older child, they may have been
lumbered with the responsibility of looking after their younger siblings or setting a
good example for them.

On the basis of any of the reasons given above, those with Saturn in the 3rd may
have problems with early education and a difficult adjustment to school in general. For
some, the boarding school experience may be felt as a kind of exile or banishment.
There also may be delays, obstacles and challenges encountered on short journeys or
travel in general. While Jupiter will just ‘pick up and go’, Saturn will want to make sure
that everything is booked in advance. Jupiter arrives at a friend’s for the weekend to
discover a party in full swing. Saturn comes to the same house the next weekend to



discover his friend’s father has just been taken ill.
Again, the whole point of Saturn in the 3rd is not that one is condemned to a life of

inarticulate misery hobbling around on crutches missing trains. Rather, this placement is
an invitation to develop the potentials of a deep and steady mind, to refine the capacity
to communicate more clearly with others, and to discover the kind of joy that learning
about something brings. Those with Saturn well-aspected in the 3rd may naturally
exhibit these traits or have fewer problems coming to terms with Saturn than others
with the same placement.

Saturn in the 4th (and Capricorn on the IC)
The 4th house represents the base of operations from which we meet life: this usually
means our home, but can also apply to the family background, roots and race. Saturn in
this house implies difficulties and restrictions with respect to these areas.

The child with Saturn in the 4th may not have experienced his or her early
environment as a very supportive place, and the atmosphere in the home may have
seemed cold, unloving or depriving in some way. In certain cases I have seen, the
family of origin was impoverished or struggling materially as the child was growing up.
In other instances, money wasn’t the problem, but rather a lack of emotional closeness
in the family which obscured the child’s sense of belonging and well-being. One way or
another, children with this placement may feel unwanted or that life is not on their side.
Certain basic requirements of love and security are not being met, and consequently
they begin to wonder what is wrong with them. They are hungry and not being fed or
they want to be held closely and reassured of things, but nobody seems to be around
when most needed. They begin to feel that they must be inadequate, flawed, or failing
in some way, and their sense of who they are deep down inside is coloured by these
misgivings. The ‘me’ residing inside those with Saturn in the 4th is a ‘not-good-
enough-me’.

In short, for children with this placement, their sense of security or ‘okay-ness’ is not
easily found from outer sources. Instead, they will have to discover their own strength,
solidity, support and lovableness from within themselves. If this is achieved, then
Saturn in the 4th is truly a blessing in disguise: because once we establish our sense of
value and worth from within, then the outside world can never take that away from us.
This is the precious gift of a 4th house Saturn.

In general, there is trouble with the father. Sometimes, he is not around at all. In
other cases, he is physically there but psychologically absent. He might be experienced
as cold, conventional, critical, materialistic and rigid or a burden and responsibility due
to ill health, personal problems, etc. Children with this placement may feel that they
have failed the father in some way, or what’s worse, that they have transgressed not just
him, but the whole family, race and background, and even God as well. They grow up
not only with a nagging sense of guilt that they are not good enough, but also with a
great deal of suppressed anger and resentment directed at those they feel are
unappreciative and judging of them. Untangling this kind of knot is never easy and will
take a long time, if done at all. A major step is achieved when they ask themselves



‘What do I really need?’ They may find that this is not all that dissimilar to what they
believed the harsh parent was trying to shove down their throats. Or once they discover
what it is they need, they can proceed to build it in or provide it for themselves and let
the depriving father or whoever off the hook for not giving it to them. More positively,
a well-placed Saturn in the 4th could indicate a father who models qualities of strength,
depth, patience and a common sense adaptation to the rigours and joys of the material
world.

Those with Saturn in the 4th are in a tricky position. They often feel deeply
inadequate and mistrusting of others and yet they yearn for something permanent and
stable in their life. Some may compensate for their sense of insecurity by acquiring land
or property. On a more mundane level, Saturn in the 4th suggests duties and
responsibilities in the domestic sphere and problems setting up a home. As usual,
wherever Saturn is, hard work, persistence and making the most even of a limited
situation pay off in the end.

People with this placement may take a long time to establish their inner strength and
identity, but once found, it is solid and enduring. In doing the charts of older people
with Saturn in this house, I have observed that in the second half of life they often
discover what they feel is their true work or mission and pursue a project or study with
great commitment.

Capricorn on the IC is similar in many respects to Saturn in the 4th. The life is built
on a deep need for stability and the search for an authentic sense of their self-worth,
purpose and value. Looking for these things from the outside may prove uncertain and
disappointing.

Saturn in the 5th
While Mars and Jupiter rush into the sandbox to get started on their castles, Saturn in
the 5th hesitantly steps into it with a worried look on his face. ‘What if my castle is no
good? I’m sure other people won’t like it at all. Do I have to do one? I really should –
all the other kids are. Everyone really liked Johnny’s castle, maybe I’d better do one
just like that?’ Meanwhile Mars has finished his and Jupiter’s is nearly done (it’s bigger
than Mars’). Saturn is still ruminating: ‘Is this the best shovel to use? What are the basic
principles of sandcastle building? I must get everything organized first.’ Jupiter and
Mars have now left the sandbox and are playing on the swings as the sun sets on Saturn
firmly fixing the foundation of his castle into place …

Later in life, those with Saturn in the 5th have the same difficulty freely expressing
their individuality and personal creativity. They desperately want to be loved for their
specialness and originality and yet feel that it is precisely their differentness which will
put others off. What’s gone wrong?

For one reason or another, they have had ‘the playful child’ inside them rebuffed.
The psychologist Karen Horney believes that in the same way a pear seed develops into
a pear, human beings naturally grow into their intrinsic potential provided various
adverse circumstances don’t stand in the way of this happening. Very often, however,
children only feel loved and acceptable when they are living up to what their parents



desire them to be. Rather than risk revealing who they are in themselves, they will hide
their own uniqueness for the sake of conforming to their parents’ expectations. Their
energy is then directed into this image of what they should be, rather than freely
unfolding in its own right. A kind of alienation from the real self occurs and the
spontaneous flow of the self is blocked by rigidity, doubt and insecurity. They end up
watching themselves watching themselves, while their real light stays hidden behind a
cloud. The discrepancy between their real selves and their contrived identities leaves
them unhappy and uncertain with what they produce. Ultimately the challenge of Saturn
in this position is to find ways to free their trapped creative spirit. Mother and Father
are no longer there watching over them. What those with Saturn in the 5th need to do is
to give themselves permission to allow the spontaneous and playful child hidden inside
to come out once in a while.

Often they lack hobbies and spare-time amusements which would serve to add that
extra something to the enjoyment of life and through which their individuality is further
defined. Similarly, they are insecure in affairs of the heart: romance adds spice to life
and makes us feel important and special, and yet those with Saturn in the 5th aren’t sure
enough of themselves to enjoy fully a piece of the cake. Afraid of rejection, they are too
guarded and fearful of looking silly to feel relaxed in these situations. For Saturn in the
5th, having fun is hard work.

They also fear that what they give birth to will be unacceptable. Hence, this
placement is often associated with a reluctance to have children, or problems with
offspring. They may fear that their children won’t like them or, conversely, that they
won’t like their children. The tests and restrictions imposed by raising children will be
strongly felt with this placement so it is probably wise if they plan carefully the timing
of when to start a family. It is likely that they will learn as much from their children as
their children learn from them.

Curiously, I have done charts for quite a few professional artists and actors who have
Saturn in this position – as if they must make work out of creative expression. Others
may have careers in the organization or administration of the arts, or in professions
which deal with children or young people.

Saturn in the 6th
This position normally confers organizational and administrative ability as well as the
capacity to pay close attention to detail. At the same time, a compulsive need to order
the environment in this way may denote some deeper fears and a mistrust of life which
ought to be acknowledged and examined.

With this placement, daily life and its routine requirements can be felt as oppressive
and exceptionally demanding. Managing mundane affairs such as paying the electricity
bill, running the car and keeping the flat tidy may become as complex and pressing as
planning the execution of a major military strategy. They need routine and ritual and yet
there is the danger of being frustrated and trapped by the structures they create.

Issues arise in the area of health and the efficient functioning of the body. For some,
health problems curtail or limit individual freedom – such as special diets or certain



physical exertions which must be restricted lest disastrous consequences ensue. With
Saturn in the 6th, symptoms of ill health should be examined as symbols or messages
forcing themselves into the awareness, offering awakening and change. The body
concretizes the system’s imbalances in the form of illness and disease in an attempt to
show us where there is something awry happening in the whole pattern of the life.
Particular health problems may come through Saturnine areas – the skin, bones, knees
and joints. Some medical and health practitioners have observed that those people who
want to do something but continually hold themselves back (Saturn) may be the ones
most prone to arthritis and rheumatism. In some cases, Parkinson’s disease has been
tracked back to suppressed fear, another Saturnine trait. Those with Saturn in this house
can participate in their health not only in direct ways such as diet and exercise, but also
through adjusting and examining overly rigid or fearful psychological attitudes. If these
challenges are met, they will grow not only stronger, but also much wiser. This
placement might also describe ‘health freaks’ who are exceptionally cautious about
what they eat or take into their bodies. Some may make a career in the health or healing
professions.

With a difficultly aspected Saturn, problems could arise in the area of work. There
can be over-criticism of those with whom they work, or a fear of being unacceptable or
inadequate in the eyes of co-workers or bosses. Shadowy and unintegrated parts of their
own psyches can be projected onto those they meet at work or people they employ to do
various jobs for them. Those with Saturn in the 6th find their place in the scheme of
things by developing and fine-tuning their marketable skills and abilities. This will not
necessarily come without dedication and effort or a menial and humble apprenticeship.

Although it may sound trivial, their relationship to pets and small animals may
assume some importance with this placement. The death or loss of their trusty dog or
beloved cat can open up a Pandora’s box of psychological and philosophical issues.

Saturn in the 7th
Relationships are not that easy for people with Saturn in the 7th and yet this is precisely
the area through which they will be challenged to grow and examine themselves. Trying
to wriggle out of the hot seat, they might complain that the right man or woman has just
never come along, or moan that some flaw in the partner is the root of the trouble.
However, rather than just blaming fate, bad luck or poor choice it is by searching
inwards that they will unearth reasons for the dispiriting state of affairs.

Wherever there is Saturn, there is fear. Very often these people obstruct relationships
because they are frightened of becoming too deeply involved with others. They may be
afraid of the degree of commitment a relationship requires, and terrified of becoming
too dependent on someone else. Dreading and half-expecting to be hurt, they cannot
risk the vulnerability of true intimacy. As is often the case with the 7th house, in order
to trace the origins of these kinds of complexes, earlier relationships will have to be
examined.

Did they open to a parent and then experience hurt, rejection and misunderstanding?
If so, they may still anticipate being unlovable or unacceptable to others. Was the



parental marriage so atrocious as to obliterate the very idea of a happy union? If so, can
they not learn from their parents’ mistakes? By seeking answers and solutions to these
kinds of questions, they grow wiser about themselves, relationships and life in general.
This is the gift of Saturn in the 7th.

I have seen many instances of people with Saturn in the 7th house who complain that
their partners are too limiting and restricting – if only it weren’t for their spouses, they
would accomplish so much more. Sometimes this is true because they have chosen,
unconsciously or not, ostensibly tyrannical men or women as partners. However, the
belief that the partner is holding them back is a form of self-deception: in actual fact,
what they have done is to project their own internal blocks and fears of stretching
themselves onto the partner. Even when they are free of their supposedly restraining
husbands and wives, many of those people with Saturn in the 7th will just find other
reasons for not venturing forth and expanding themselves. Why not examine these inner
obstacles first?

Saturn in the 7th may look for a partner who is safe. Sometimes the least risky ones
are those who do not engender an enormous amount of passion. Or as a kind of self-
protection policy, they may deliberately choose partners whom they feel are inadequate
or lacking in certain respects. Therefore, if the relationship fails, and the other person
walks out the door, they can reassure themselves that they are better off without that no-
good lame duck. Others seem to select partners who have the same weaknesses as they
do, and then proceed to batter the other person for those things they feel unhappy about
in themselves.

Saturn in this house also manifests in the search for a partner who will provide
security and stability for them. For these reasons, this placement has often been
associated with marriage to an older person, or a mother-figure or father-figure. This
may work, but at the expense of keeping them small and dependent. Should it fail, it
may be a blessing in disguise because they are forced to develop their own inner source
of strength and support. While this is not easy, it is invariably a worthwhile
achievement.

Saturn in the 7th may marry later in life or not find more complete fulfilment in a
union until somewhat older – as if Father Time must teach them a thing or two before a
truly mutual and healthy relationship can be formed.

More mundanely, lawsuits may be long and drawn out, and it might be advisable to
try to settle out of court.

Saturn in the 8th
Saturn in the 8th gives apprehensions and difficulties in the area of intimacy, sharing
and joint resources. They may feel insecure about what they have to give or experience
some difficulty receiving what another is offering. More generally, there is the fear of
letting go, of merging and blending with another person. To truly merge with someone
else means the death of the self as a separate individual. This is a frightening prospect
for those with Saturn in the 8th who want to hold onto what they value and possess. In
addition, letting themselves go in a relationship entails the possibility of being



overtaken by feelings that they have attempted to keep under rigid control – rage,
jealousy, envy and passions of a primitive and instinctive nature. They desperately
crave a close union and yet withdraw from it for fear of being overwhelmed by such
eruptions. Subsequently they may have difficulty relaxing and being open and trusting
with others, all of which could give rise to sexual problems. (In mythology, Eros and
Thanatos were brothers and the sexual union is a kind of death of one’s individuality.)
Investigating the root causes of inhibitions in this area deepens and enriches their self-
knowledge and understanding.

Besides possible sexual hang-ups, there are conflicts pooling resources and making
personal adjustments in relationships. The partner’s beliefs or values may differ from
and contradict their own, or they may choose a mate who is a burden in some way. And
yet, helping out with the welfare of others may be precisely what Saturn in the 8th
needs for their own personal development. There can be trouble over inheritance,
taxation and business contracts, and the possibility of drawn-out divorce proceedings.
Some will make a career dealing with other people’s money – bankers, investment
consultants, stockbrokers and accountants may have this position of Saturn.

Generally, they hesitate to probe beneath the surface of life and yet this is what is
needed for greater depth and maturity. Obviously, people who attempt to maintain rigid
controls over themselves are likely to be very frightened by the prospect of physical
death and what looms in the hereafter. These apprehensions could provoke them to a
serious pursuit of more knowledge in these areas. A supreme example is found in the
chart of Dr Elisabeth Kübler-Ross, with Saturn in Scorpio in the 8th: through her
pioneering research she has helped thousands face death with nobility and peace.

Saturn in the 9th
Those with this placement encounter the serious, methodical, conservative and
apprehensive Saturn in the sphere of religion, philosophy, higher education and travel.
Usually they have an interest in religion and philosophy and the need to find definite
answers to basic questions concerning the meaning and patterning of existence. Unlike
Jupiter here, who can justify almost anything he wants to do, with Saturn in this house
the sense of the divine is tinged by the attributes of the old tyrant himself – God is
judgemental, stern and liable to punish them for the slightest mistake. Often they have
been brought up under the yoke of conventional or orthodox forms of religion, and their
‘spiritual superego’ is very strong and inhibitive. Saturn in the 9th may feel that what
God likes and dislikes is clearly defined, and that there are strict rules and laws which
designate how life should be lived. To transgress these spells disaster. Consequently
their philosophy is practical and utilitarian. Some may be caught in the outward
trappings of religion, obsessed with observing the exact letter of the law, and forgetful
of the inner meaning behind these forms.

Conversely, there are some people with Saturn in this house who are so frightened of
anything which smacks of universality or bigger principles that they hide behind
sceptical and cynical attitudes. They will believe only in that which can be seen, tested
and proven. Others may undertake serious studies of philosophy, theology or



metaphysics in an attempt to concretize, specify and ‘pin down’ higher truths. The
Gauquelins found this placement in the charts of successful scientists, who literally
make a career of ‘knowing’ and classifying the laws and principles which govern life.

While those with Saturn in the 9th may fear that they are not good enough for God,
they also worry that God is not doing His job very adequately, and could try to take up
the burden. (They might also experience similar kinds of feelings about their in-laws.)

Saturn in this house can also give rise to what Erica Jong called ‘the fear of flying’.
While Jupiter in the 9th is ruminating about all the things he can and will do, Saturn
here is frightened of its own potentials and afraid of taking risks. For those with this
placement, every time they lift their arms to reach for the sky they feel a cramp. Such
negative expectations do not augur well for the success of such ventures. And yet,
slowly and with persistence, they can sort through the doubts and hesitations and arrive
there in the end – sometimes even before Jupiter, who has changed his mind and veered
off in another direction entirely.

Correspondingly, on a mundane level, Saturn in the 9th will encounter some
difficulties or feel uncomfortable with a great deal of travel. Some may reside abroad
out of necessity or travel in connection with their work, but their idea of fun is usually
not wandering around the world seeing what will happen next. They find it much more
reassuring to have the future planned. Ironically, however, those times when the diary is
empty and they have to trust and believe in whatever the next day brings may be their
most opportune periods of breakthrough and growth.

Saturn in the 10th (and Capricorn on the MC)
In his own home and elevated by position, Saturn operates powerfully in the 10th.
Whether they acknowledge it or not, these people are extremely sensitive about how
other people see them. Saturn in the 10th, like the personal ego itself, wants to be seen
as strong, solid and enduring. Success is normally judged in terms of traditional values
and roles – the career status, the kind of house they own, the respectability of the
marriage, etc. Usually (and there are exceptions) there is the need to achieve position
and recognition through some sort of work which is socially acceptable. They may be
judgemental and condemning of others who venture to live outside of that which
‘straight’ society validates. If they must constrict themselves, why shouldn’t others –
and they may be both envious and angry at those who don’t.

They will probably have to work hard to achieve the respect and status they want. If
well-aspected, they can realize their career aims through dedication and logical step-by-
step progression up the ladder. However, if Saturn is difficultly placed, there may be
many delays and obstacles along the way. Some may feel that any means justifies
winning their ends – thereby compromising themselves or using others for their own
gain. They may reach a certain plateau, and then feel stuck and thwarted in their efforts
to go further. Others may rise fairly quickly, misuse their power, and then topple just as
fast. We usually land on our feet in Jupiter’s house, but in Saturn’s domain we may be
brought down to our knees if we aren’t careful. A contemporary example of a 10th
house Saturn is John Mitchell, one of Nixon’s cabinet, who was indicted and sent to



prison for his part in the Watergate affair. Famous historical examples of this placement
of Saturn include Hitler and Napoleon.

Some people with Saturn in the 10th may actually rebel against their over-sensitivity
to society’s codes and values by trying to break the rules. (We mustn’t forget that
Cronus started out in life by transgressing the existing authority, i.e. his father.) A case
in point is seen in the chart of Nathan Leopold, born with Saturn in Aquarius in the
10th, whose story was related in a book and film entitled Compulsion. Although he
came from a wealthy and respectable family, his compulsion was to commit the perfect
crime. Together with his friend Richard Loeb he carefully planned the sadistic murder
of an innocent young boy. Like the hero of Dostoevsky’s Crime and Punishment,
Leopold challenged the restraints of Saturn and society in an attempt to prove that he
was above the law. Because of the pressure of social propriety that they feel, those with
Saturn in the 10th may do all they can to kick against it. Bob Dylan summed up this
placement nicely in a song with these words: ‘To live outside the law you must be
honest.’ Or, as the saying has it, ‘Liberty is the luxury of discipline.’

And of course there is the mother: with Saturn in this house, she is often experienced
as a strict socializing force, the law-giver who decides what is acceptable and proper.
Children with this placement may internalize her rules or later believe that the kind of
obedience Mother wanted is the same that should be given to society. The mother may
be felt as critical, cold, demanding and unloving. Whatever the child does is never good
enough. Or the mother may seem more like a burden and responsibility – someone the
child has to care for, rather than the more usual way around. On a more hopeful note,
the mother could serve as a model of positive Saturnine qualities, exemplifying
patience, discipline, durability, pragmatism and determination.

Saturn in the 10th is similar to Capricorn on the MC. Those with this planet or sign
there are often excellent organizers and administrators, executives, managers, scientists,
builders and teachers.

Saturn in the 11th
Saturn is by nature ambivalent about the main thrust of the 11th – the urge to become
more than we already are. On the one hand, Saturn is attracted by the lure of anything
which offers greater security and prestige; on the other hand, he is terrified at the
thought of having to open up and expand his carefully guarded boundaries.

While those with Saturn in the 11th may experience a pressing need to join with
others and be part of a group or circle of friends, they often feel awkward or threatened
in such situations. Some may react accordingly by avoiding these kinds of social
contacts, and yet, in doing so, forfeit the opportunity to grow and learn in this important
area of life.

Even if they only form a few carefully selected friendships, somehow problems still
arise. Friends may be the catalyst through which they have to face issues which are
most challenging for them. For example, one man I know with Saturn in the 11th loves
to flirt with any woman he meets and yet he invariably chooses friends who are very
possessive about their wives. As friend after friend broke off their association with him,



the man in question was forced to reflect on the causes and reasons for his compulsive
behaviour. He could blame his friends for being such jealous types, but why did he
repeatedly set up the same situation, and what was this fatal fascination for married
women all about anyway?

People with Saturn in the 11th will usually have to work hard at developing those
qualities which earn a person the ‘good friend’ label. Unlike the example above, some
may be too rigid and formal with a friend, as if they are afraid of putting a foot wrong
or being taken advantage of by an associate. Sometimes friends can be felt as a burden,
restriction or responsibility. They may worry that a friend will reject or criticize them;
or they, themselves, might be the ones who feel cold and judgemental at times. They
sometimes choose older or more mature associates who have had greater experience in
this area and can serve as models or teachers for how to behave. Or Saturn in the 11th
may suffer a sense of loneliness and isolation because of a lack of companions.
However, if difficulties are faced and examined, Saturn in this house has the capacity
for loyal and enduring friendships.

Similar experiences can occur in groups, clubs or organizations. Although those with
Saturn in the 11th don’t always feel easy in group situations, this is precisely where they
can learn the most about themselves and others. They might belong to a group which
limits or restricts their freedom in some way or they may assume heavy duties and
administrative responsibilities within a club or organization. Whereas Saturn in the 5th
needs the permission to be different, a difficultly aspected 11th house Saturn needs
lessons in how to work jointly with other people. What is their place and purpose in the
human family? How can they promote the growth and evolution of society in some
way?

Some with this placement may be trapped by their own rigid ideals of what they
should be. Others might be afraid to commit themselves to any particular goal, feeling
that this would be too binding or limiting. At times, frustrated by blocks to their
progress, they will want to give up entirely. While it’s wise to periodically review,
reassess and even re-choose our objectives in life, Saturn in the 11th shouldn’t forget
their mascot, the goat – who reaches his goal by patiently and persistently taking little
steps at a time. He isn’t an overnight success, but he arrives there in the end.

Saturn in the 12th
Like those with Saturn in the 8th, people with Saturn in the 12th are often afraid of what
lurks beneath the surface level of consciousness. Should they relax their controls over
themselves, they fear that they might be engulfed by overwhelming emotions.

The neo-Freudians believe that in the name of security and social adaptability, we
repress certain drives, impulses and appetites which others (or our own egos) would
find unacceptable. But some with Saturn in the 12th go a step further. In divorcing
themselves from what is in the unconscious, they also inhibit a very positive and
pressing desire which exists in all of us: the urge to reconnect to our at-one-ness with
the rest of life. Instead of experiencing joy at the prospect of merging with something
greater than the self, they recoil in horror at the thought of dissolution of their



individuality. Robert Desoille, a French psychotherapist, coined a term for this, calling
it ‘the repression of the sublime’.

In certain cases, they suffer a type of guilt or despair – something inside tells them
that they are not all they could be. Or they are beset by paranoia, a feeling that someone
or something is out to destroy them. Traditional textbooks interpret Saturn in the 12th as
‘undoing by secret enemies’; but more often than not, the enemy is an aspect of their
own unconscious selves, angry with them for having been brushed aside. When they
make friends with what they have rejected, a sense of peace settles over the psyche, and
they rest more easily at night. If they don’t reconcile themselves with parts of
themselves they have denied, then they protect themselves against invasion by double-
locking their doors, keeping to themselves, and remembering to forget their dreams.

Deep psychological fears which are difficult to trace may contribute to a pervading
sense of self-doubt and lack of confidence. Sometimes their problems may stem from
pre-natal difficulties. The womb is a place where we are meant to swim in a sense of the
totality of life. If for any reason those waters were troubled, then we may later resist
anything which resembles that kind of experience. It may be worthwhile for those with
Saturn in the 12th to investigate what the gestation period might have been like.
Perhaps the mother wasn’t sure about having a child at that time. Or she could have
been worried about money or the state of affairs with the father. For whatever reasons,
the developing embryo, through the umbilical connection, registers that life is not all
right. The child grows up vaguely anxious about almost everything, guilty about being
alive, and in poor relation to the rest of life.

Either due to this sense of guilt or partly motivated by an innate feeling of being
responsible for other people’s problems, they may feel that they owe a debt to society
which can be paid off through service. They sometimes work in hospitals, prisons,
charities or governmental agencies dealing in any number of ways with those in trouble
or need. Others with Saturn in the 12th may live out their all-pervading sense of
unacceptability behind bars or hidden away in a hospital ward.

Some with Saturn in this house are terrified of intimacy. This could stem from a fear
of being engulfed, or a dread of losing their identity as a separate individual. They may
believe that they can only maintain their autonomy by withdrawing from people. Or
they fear that no matter what they do, all things will come to a bad end. Thus, they shun
attachment or commitment to people or things. This underlying sense of futility needs
to be brought to the surface and explored. Until they do this, they may fear the whole
realm of emotions and feelings (12th house) and take refuge by living mainly ‘in their
heads’.

Any principle in the 12th house can sustain us or undo us. Positive Saturn qualities
such as recognizing their natural limits, the acceptance of duty and responsibility, and
plain common sense may help them through difficult situations. Some exhibit a deep
inner wisdom which can guide them through the most difficult times. However, too
great a sense of separateness from the rest of life, an overly materialistic outlook, or a
refusal to examine psychological problems could be the cause of pain and suffering.
Sometimes there is a voluntary withdrawal from activity or a compelling need for



privacy and seclusion to recollect the pieces of the self which have been shattered by a
stressful encounter with life. At times, they may be driven to seek the support or aid of
caring agencies or turn to ‘something up there’ for help. As hard as this might be, a
crisis which precipitates their asking others for help may enable them to discover that
they are not as alone in the world as they believed. The German poet Goethe, born with
Saturn in Scorpio in the 12th, lyrically expressed a similar sentiment when he wrote:
‘Who never ate his bread with tears, who never sat through the sorrowful night,
weeping on his bed, does not know … heavenly powers.’

In conclusion, Saturn in the 12th asks that the whole realm of the unconscious be
taken seriously. Those with this placement may be afraid to explore these waters and
yet this is precisely what they need to do. Should they overcome their fears and embark
on the path of psychological self-investigation, their efforts will be amply rewarded.
They will not only reconnect to severed parts of themselves but regain a lost sense of
relatedness to the rest of life in the process.

A Note on the Outer Planets in the Houses
In whatever houses they are placed, the three outer planets – Uranus, Neptune and Pluto
– bring experiences of a more disruptive, radical and transforming nature than the other
planets which might occupy that sphere. Rather than just living the affairs of the house
in an ordinary, routine or uncomplicated way, we are somehow catapulted into a more
complex relationship with that dimension of life.

Saturn, by house, makes us aware of what is weak, inadequate or incomplete in
ourselves and in this way highlights those areas which we need to work on and
strengthen. However, the outer planets go a step further by periodically challenging the
very existence and viability of the kinds of structures which we have created in the
spheres of the chart where they are found. Besides complicating the affairs of the house,
they symbolize certain kinds of conflicts, paradoxes, tensions and traumas which cry
out for some sort of major change or shift on our part whether we like it or not.
Hopefully we break down in order to break through – and the end result is a broadened,
deepened, refined and expanded awareness of ourselves and life in general.

The sign positions of the outer planets remain the same for all people over long
durations of time. Therefore, the more personal influences of Uranus, Neptune and
Pluto are shown by the houses in which they are placed.

Notes – Chapter 24
1. Jean Houston, The Possible Human, L. P. Tarcher, Los Angeles, California, 1982, p.

101.



25.

URANUS AND AQUARIUS THROUGH THE HOUSES

Not a great deal is written about Uranus in mythology. The first sky-god, he ruled the
limitless expanse of space and had the job of inventing and designing Nature. He
accomplished such creative feats as fashioning the wings of butterflies, each one
stamped with its own uniqueness and individuality. By house, Uranus in the chart is
where we are capable of fresh and original thought and action. In his domain, it is not
necessary to conform to traditional and conventional patterns of behaviour.

He was married to Gaea, Mother Earth. Every night the Sky lay down on the Earth,
and as a result they kept conceiving children. The prolific couple gave birth to the race
of giants known as the Titans; to a few one-eyed Cyclopses; and a host of other
monsters each with one hundred arms and fifty heads. Disgusted at the sight of his own
offspring, Uranus refused to allow them to exist. Instead, as soon as they were born, he
shoved them back into Gaea’s womb, the very bowels of the Earth itself. Astrologically
this implies that in Uranus’ house, we may conceive what we believe are some very
good ideas, but when acted upon and concretized, they may not turn out so well. What
in theory seemed highly desirable can in actual fact disappoint us when put into
practice. And like the god Uranus, we sometimes have to bury our original ideas and try
again.

Obviously, Gaea, her womb gorged with these banished children, was not amused.
Reaching into her bosom, she produced some steel, fashioned a sickle, and then
implored her children to castrate their father with it. Her youngest son Cronus (Saturn),
already exhibiting a well-developed sense of responsibility, volunteered to undertake
the task. Some of the blood from Uranus’ dismembered phallus spurted back into
Gaea’s womb and gave birth to the Furies. When the organ was cast into the sea, it
merged with the foam and Aphrodite (Venus) was born.

This myth suggests the complexities which characterize Uranus’ sphere of influence.
That part of us which is more earthy or Saturnian – our reserve, caution, conservatism,
respect for tradition, and fear of the unknown – can literally ‘cut off’ the creative
impulse of Uranus. The inhibition of Uranus in a house can give birth to the Furies,
whose names translate into ‘envious anger’, ‘retaliation’, and ‘never-endingness’.1 If
we cling too long to old and outworn ‘scripts’ and patterns of behaviour in Uranus’
domain, then the Furies will pursue us. Resenting the state of affairs in that area of life,
we often blame others for our unhappiness, causing a poisonous and bitter residue to
build up in the psyche. An awesome amount of energy is required to hold back a change
when it is really needed, and we may end up exhausted, diseased or alienated as a
result. Or, perhaps we courageously undertake the new action and explore other
provocative and independent ways of being in that house. Even so, we may still evoke



the Furies – this time unleashed on us by those who feel challenged, transgressed and
threatened by our behaviour. On either a personal or collective level, Uranus’ house is
where we may have to deviate from conformity, experiment with new trends or currents
of thought, and risk disrupting ourselves and everything around us in the name of
progress and evolution.

Thankfully, Aphrodite is also born out of this struggle. Her presence suggests that
while respecting and working within some of the limits and confines of Saturn, we can
attempt to find the most harmonious and creative ways (Venus) to bring forth new life.
In some cases, we may not be able to totally overthrow the old structures, but we can
endeavour to make room within these for new ideas and interests, and in this way give
some sort of expression to change. This is the challenge Uranus presents in the area of
the chart he inhabits.

Uranus was discovered relatively recently in 1781, during the period of the
American and French Revolutions, and on the eve of the Industrial Revolution.
Synchronously, this planet is associated with ideals of truth, justice, liberty, fraternity
and equality as well as any progressive collective trends which challenge the status quo.
Uranus wants us to transcend the limits of our past, our background, our biology and if
possible our fate: just because we are born into a poor family doesn’t mean that we have
to be a peasant. In pure form, its vision is of many individuals grouped together, each
expressing his or her own uniqueness and yet supporting the larger whole of which each
is a part.

However, Uranus is prone to certain distortions. By house, it is where we have a
need for truth and freedom as well as an inordinate fear of being trapped or imprisoned
by our own creations. If we are too attached to change for the sake of change, then
nothing will ever take root in this area. Or wavering on that fine line between madness,
eccentricity and genius, we may persistently feel the need to be different for no other
motive than causing some disruption or drawing attention to ourselves. Uranus’ house
may show where we rashly disrespect the limits of our ‘human-ness’. Presuming we can
automatically transcend the restrictions of the physical body or rise above the
instinctual components of our nature, we commit the sin of hubris and invite
punishment to fall on us. With the same finesse that inspired Dr Frankenstein to make
his monster, we unleash horrors on the world in the name of advancement and progress.
Or when utopian ideals (as in the French Revolution) don’t take into account the
realities of human nature, they convolute and turn in on themselves, sometimes
strangling almost everyone in the process.

Aquarius on the cusp or contained within a house will have a similar flavour to
Uranus there. There will be a connection between the house containing Uranus and any
house with Aquarius in it.

Uranus in the 1st
Those with Uranus in the 1st best meet life by having the courage to determine their
own truths for themselves. If there is no path, they should make one. Highly original
and inventive, they offer new insights or ideas into their various fields of interests.



Alexander Graham Bell who patented the telephone was born with Uranus in Aries in
the 1st. Mary Baker Eddy, the founder of the Christian Science Church and the only
woman to ever establish a religion, was born with Uranus in Capricorn in this house.
Nikola Tesla, a Yugoslavian-born scientist and inventor whose life is recounted in a
book called The Prodigal Genius, had Uranus in Taurus in the 1st. Traditionally, Uranus
is associated with electricity, and Tesla was the first man to effectively utilize the
alternating current. Obviously, those with Uranus in the 1st are better in leadership roles
– they just can’t cope very well being followers. Nor should they, with the highly
individualistic Uranus in the natural house of Aries and Mars.

Talk about electricity – they usually have it. Often this can be seen in their eyes, face
or around their hair – something about them crackles and buzzes. If Uranus is difficultly
aspected, they can be extremely obstinate and unreasonably dissenting, revelling in
being different simply for the sake of it.

Nonetheless, they must be given a great deal of personal freedom to find themselves.
Most of us derive our sense of who we are from being somebody’s wife, mother, child,
boss, lover, etc. However, for those with Uranus in the 1st, these traditional collective
representations of identity are just not enough. There is always something better or
different that they could be and therefore they have great difficulty settling into any one
definite sense of who they are. Others may find this wonderfully exciting or painfully
irritating.

Basically, they just want to be left alone to get on with what they want to do without
people bothering them. It’s no use trying to stop them anyway. Unwilling to adhere to
conventional forms or standards of behaviour, they ‘cut through’ anything which is
phoney or stifling with laser-like alacrity. To others, they sometimes appear shocking.

If Uranus is close to the Ascendant, there may be something unusual about the birth
or early upbringing. One extreme case which Lois Rodden (in Astro-Data II: The
American Book of Charts) cites is a Brazilian boy with Uranus in Virgo in the 1st and
much of Aquarius in the 6th house: he was born with two heads, each of which ate and
breathed separately. I also know of a child born with Uranus in the 1st house on the
Ascendant who was taken away from his teenage mother one day after birth and put up
for adoption. One way or another with Uranus in the 1st, life is not going to be ordinary.

Uranus in the 2nd
Those with Uranus in the 2nd will have to approach the whole area of money,
possessions and resources in a different way from the ordinary. This position represents
a challenge to rise above the collective’s traditional value systems and the more usual
ways of viewing the material world. Not wishing to be bound by the need for material
security and possessions, some may shun attachment to those very things which most
people are seeking. If valued at all, money will be appreciated for the freedom it offers
them to pursue what it is they really want to do.

Sometimes there may be unusual ways of earning money or the income can be
gained from newly developing fields, modern technologies, or some highly
individualistic endeavour. Some people with this placement may support more radical



economic or political systems which organize the distribution of wealth differently from
their native regime. Uranus in this house is also associated with sudden material and
financial ups and downs. Intuitively acting on a hunch, they may take risks with money.
Depending on the aspects to Uranus, these may ‘pay off’ admirably or land the person
penniless.

Those with Uranus in the 2nd often experience some sort of change, disruption or
de-structuring in the area of personal security which forces them to re-evaluate this
whole sphere of life. For instance, even if they are trying to pursue a more orderly or
conventional approach to the material world, they may find themselves the victim of
some larger collective influence or upheaval which disrupts their source of income or
security. The company they work for may do a re-shuffle, or due to a recession they
find themselves on the redundancy list. Or for reasons beyond their control, they have
to flee their country of residence, leaving everything behind to face the prospect of
starting anew. At some time in their lives, they might have to develop different skills,
unlike those which they have previously used, to support themselves.

Very often, it is their own strong unconscious urges which coerce them to break with
past attachments. If they are unconscious of their deep need for freedom, they may
choose situations which they believe offer security but which ultimately turn out to be
unstable. (In any battle between conscious desires and unconscious ones, the
unconscious usually wins.) Some may believe in the principle of ‘mind over matter’:
that there is a higher plane which can affect and shape the happenings on the material
level of existence.

The innate resources which should be developed are those of originality,
inventiveness, openness to new currents and progressive trends, and an often crystal-
clear insight into situations. It may be that those with Uranus in the natural house of
Taurus can materialize their ‘genius’ more easily than when this planet is in other
houses. For example, Yehudi Menuhin, who was giving public recitals from the age of
seven, earned his money through his musical genius (Uranus in Aquarius in the 2nd).
Guglielmo Marconi, the inventor of the wireless and radio magnetic detector, was born
with Uranus in Leo in this house. Michelangelo, ‘the universal genius’, is reputed to
have had Aquarius on the 2nd house cusp.

Uranus in the 3rd
Those with Uranus in the 3rd keep looking for their own ways to understand what
happens around them, rather than adhering to how they have been educated to see
things. In other words, they are inventive, original and intuitive thinkers. The Uranian
mind grasps concepts whole, and has revelations and sudden insights into life, people,
events and situations. Somehow they perceive the environment from a slightly different
angle to others. Very often they exhibit a kind of detached clarity which enables them to
solve problems quickly. While others are grappling with solutions and establishing
research projects to comprehend an issue more fully, Uranus appears on the scene and
immediately knows the answer – ‘It’s obvious, you ought to try it this way.’ A more
rational and logical mind will be baffled by the Uranian ability to ‘pull answers out of



the air’. Sometimes, their ideas are slightly ahead of their time. Others simply will not
be able to fathom them immediately. But days, months or years later they begin to
understand what Uranus had computed instantly and naturally. It won’t come as a
surprise to learn that Albert Einstein was born with Uranus in the 3rd ruling Aquarius
on the 9th (the house associated with the laws and principles which govern existence).

People with Uranus in the 3rd may be restless and highly strung. They need to move
around, explore and experience a wide variety of life’s facets. Their minds may change
course so quickly that others are left totally confused about what is happening. They are
mental gymnasts: it appears that they are changing the subject or talking in non
sequiturs when actually they have made a quick connection between one topic and
another, which a slower-thinking mind may fail to perceive. Uranus’ thinking is often
non-linear or ‘lateral’.

Uranus in the 3rd can describe a disruptive early environment, possibly one in which
significant changes in residence produced upheaval for the person. Even at an early age,
they may have felt separate or different from others in the immediate environment. The
relationships with siblings may be unusual, as in the case of blended families – where
there are step-sisters or brothers from a previous marriage of one or both the parents. I
have seen this placement in the charts of people who are considerably older or younger
than the other siblings. A brother, sister, aunt, uncle, etc., may exhibit obvious Uranian
characteristics.

Uranus in the 3rd might have a hard time adjusting to traditional educational
systems. Any course of study may be subject to some chopping and changing. Often,
they make highly original contributions to any branch of learning, and I have seen this
placement in the charts of individuals who stand out in the fields of education and
communication.

The 3rd house rules short journeys, and with Uranus here, unexpected happenings
are to be expected. My favourite example of someone who travels from A to B in the
most unusual ways is the daredevil Evel Knievel, with Uranus in the 3rd ruling
Aquarius on the Ascendant.

Uranus in the 4th (and Aquarius on the IC)
Dane Rudhyar writes of Uranus in the 4th that it ‘points to the possibility of becoming
constructively uprooted.’2 Whether through personal choice or unavoidable external
circumstances, those with Uranus in the 4th are not meant to be bound by the traditional
biological family unit. They may feel like outsiders, strangers or outcasts from their
families of origin; or for some reason, the early home life was disrupted and the family
scattered. This placement of Uranus implies a need to find where they truly belong as
their family or racial roots don’t seem to provide this kind of containment. Often deeply
restless, they require the space and freedom to search for their true ‘spiritual’ home or
family.

Fearing the loss of alternatives, they are sometimes reluctant to put down any roots
at all – maybe there is some place better or more appropriate around the corner. In
certain instances I have seen, this disruption has been attracted externally as if by fate –



something from the outside compels a move or the need to uproot. Or everything seems
to be perfectly secure in the home until Uranus in the 4th is ‘triggered’ by progression
or transit and suddenly, out of the blue, they pick up and leave or the family breaks up
or changes in some way.

This placement could also describe an unusual home life. The home could be used as
a meeting place for groups or organizations where different ideas are exchanged. They
may live in a utopian community, or a housing venture based on something slightly
unconventional. The father (or hidden parent) may bear some of the characteristics of
Uranus. He may have been unconventional or erratic in some way or literally kept
appearing and disappearing from the home scene. He might have felt trapped by being a
parent. Sometimes he is physically present but remains an unknown quantity with
whom a close emotional rapport is difficult. Occasionally, I have seen Uranus in the 4th
in the charts of people who, as they were growing up, watched their fathers suffer
mental breakdowns. More positively, it can be a father who is highly original, inventive,
free-thinking, and loving without being smothering.

Although this may not be revealed until later in life, those with Uranus in the 4th are
often deeply unconventional. In some cases, they may live in a certain way until mid-
life and then radically change their lifestyle when Uranus opposes its own place. An
interest in metaphysics and in philosophical and political systems may surface as they
grow older.

Uranus in the 4th is similar to Aquarius on the IC or in the 4th house. An identity
needs to be found which is based on something other than just the personal family unit.
At some stage in the life, they may want to participate in an activity which benefits or
advances the family of humanity.

Uranus in the 5th
Rather than relying on conventional or traditional modes of self-expression, those with
Uranus in the 5th should let their individuality shine through whatever they do. Similar
to Uranus in the 1st, they almost can’t help being innovative and different. Elvis
Presley, who combined a whole new trend in music in the 1950s with a way of moving
his body that many people found shocking, was born with Uranus in Aries in the 5th.
Those with Uranus in this house may never be totally satisfied with what they create,
always thinking it could have been better or more ideal. Sometimes creative inspiration
comes in a flash, like a bolt of lightning charging the body.

We have personified some of the other planets in the 5th as children playing in a
sandbox – what would Uranus be like there? True to form, it’s hard to predict. He
would probably join the others at first, but eventually get bored. Castles are a ‘cinch’
and so dreadfully banal, besides it’s very frustrating trying to construct a model of the
Houston Space Center in something as one-dimensional as sand. Doesn’t anyone have a
new computer game he hasn’t mastered yet? Having persuaded Mars and Jupiter to
come with him to practise a few new stunts on his recently acquired BMX bike, he can’t
resist a passing comment to Saturn on how to improve the castle he is still putting the
finishing touches to (see Saturn in the 5th).



Later in life, Uranus is more interested in what others find weird and eccentric and
may pursue hobbies which are out of the ordinary. The same goes for love affairs and
romances – which may be unconventional and with sudden beginnings and endings.
Uranus becomes bored when the initial excitement and enthusiasm wanes, or if the
affair becomes too known or constricting. At that point, justifications are sought for an
abrupt finish.

Most people create on the ordinary biological level by producing children, but those
with Uranus in the 5th have to find other ways than the purely biological to express
themselves. Even if they do have children, their creative needs won’t be totally satisfied
by just being a parent. If they cling too closely to offspring or try to turn them into
vessels to ‘live out’ their unused potential, the children will probably react by breaking
away from home as soon as possible. In certain cases, it may be the parent who leaves
the child. I have seen a few instances of women with Uranus in the 5th who have very
little desire to be mothers, or who have been separated from their children for various
reasons. Uranus in this house seems to ask people to find additional ways of fulfilling
the need for creative outlets rather than only through bearing progeny. As parents, their
views on raising children are likely to be progressive or contrary to what society
upholds. The English poet, Percy Bysshe Shelley, had Uranus in Leo in the 5th ruling
Aquarius on the 11th. After the death of his wife, he was denied custody of the children
because of his atheistic beliefs.

Uranus in the 6th
Those with Uranus in the 6th are meant to explore in a deeper way the intimate
relationship between the inner world of the mind and feelings and the outer world of
form and the body. A connection exists between what we are inside and the kind of
everyday reality we create for ourselves. Uranus in the 6th has a chance to learn that in
order to change the outside, the inside must be altered first. Any problems which they
face in their daily lives or physical bodies can be met with the questions: what patterns
in me produced these difficulties and how can I change them? Self-examination, based
on the liberating idea that we create and are responsible for our own reality, is the key to
a positive experience of Uranus in the 6th. Otherwise they are prone to minor or major
upheavals in the life – such as falling ill to avoid going to a job they don’t like, rather
than admitting first they are feeling trapped by the work and acting accordingly to
change the situation.

In fact, the whole area of work and employment can be approached in a non-
conventional way. Rarely suited to a repetitive nine-to-five routine, they will usually
find it difficult to stay in a job purely out of a sense of duty or for the sake of security.
Their minds need to be continually engaged and interested in the tasks before them and
it’s best if their work allows scope for change, variety, inventiveness and movement.
Often there is difficulty working under others because they need to approach any job in
their own way – even if it has never been done in that fashion previously. However, if
Uranus is not too badly aspected, exchanging ideas with co-workers can be lively and
stimulating.



Often, they are interested in the new technologies as well as subjects like astrology
or other related metaphysical or psychological systems – anything which gives them a
frame of reference from which to observe and meet life. They might suit a ‘think-tank’
situation.

In general, they do not like to be bound by the little everyday necessities and
routines of existence and may create upheavals to make life more interesting and
exciting. Again, life might become easier if they consciously acknowledge what they
don’t like, and do something to change that area rather than subtly provoking external
forces to disrupt it for them.

Interested in the relationship between mind and body, they might explore various
forms of alternative and complementary medicines, sometimes experimenting with
unusual diets and various exercise routines. Health problems can stem from too much
stress and nervous tension which weakens the body’s defences. An overly inhibited 6th
house Uranus attracts the Furies (see page 204), which may lodge themselves in the
body, creating havoc in the system. In charts I have seen, there appears to be a
connection between Uranus in the 6th and various forms of allergies. Interestingly,
some medical researchers have linked allergies with unexpressed anger and resentment,
suggesting that people with ‘short fuses’ are more prone to allergic conditions. (In her
book on medical astrology, Eileen Nauman associates Uranus with ‘the actual impulses
that leap from one nerve synapse to another’.3) Obviously, those with Uranus here will
benefit from any form of activity which helps them unwind – physical exercises, yoga,
meditation, etc. On the positive side, Uranus offers the possibility of a speedy recovery
or release from illness, helped enormously by the right mental attitudes.

If we take the combination of Uranus and the 6th house to its logical conclusion,
then there may be the possibility of unusual pets. One woman I know with this
placement keeps rats as pets in the house – uncaged, of course.

Uranus in the 7th
The attitude towards relationships needs to extend beyond a wholly conventional
framework if Uranus is in the 7th. While many people remain in a relationship because
of a need for safety and security or out of a sense of duty, those with Uranus here will
find it hard to endure a lifeless or outworn partnership just for those reasons. If a
relationship is not creative, exhilarating, open and honest, they may disrupt it for the
sake of finding something better.

One or both partners might require more space and freedom than is found in the
typical marriage or close union. Rather than simply being categorized as somebody’s
mate, they need other interests outside of the relationship from which to gain a sense of
identity and vitality.

If those with this placement are not the prime movers in acting out the urges of
Uranus, they may attract or select a partner who perpetrates this for them. If they don’t
acknowledge their restlessness or need for a less conventional structure, then they might
provoke the other person to somehow alter the state of affairs. The general rule with
Uranus in any house is that the more we acknowledge its presence there and internalize



its nature, the less likely it is that external situations force upheaval on us.
Problems occur when planets which by nature crave security, convention or

closeness – such as the Moon, Venus or Saturn – are in hard aspect to a 7th house
Uranus. In such cases, one side of the person yearns for the intimacy and safety of a
relationship while another bit of them is frightened of losing their separate individuality
or being too confined by the partnership. As with Jupiter in this house, a possible
resolution is finding a partner with the same conflicts – keeping an awareness of the
dilemma in the open and structuring the relationship accordingly. An atmosphere in
which the two people can freely exchange and discuss their feelings and moods without
the other taking it too personally will facilitate this arrangement. They will need to
recognize that each person is an individual in his or her own right, and not someone
who exists solely to fulfil whatever one or the other requires at any particular moment.
Obviously, a fair degree of maturity will be needed to accomplish this, and their best
relationships usually come when they are older and wiser about themselves and life in
general.

Those with Uranus in the 7th sometimes experience revelations and sudden changes
in outlook and attitude which render a present relationship obsolete. New ones are
sought which reflect the changed state of mind. In general, there is the need to
periodically re-stimulate or reinvigorate an existing relationship, usually when Uranus
is triggered by progression or transit.

The 7th house describes what we are seeking in a partner, as well as qualities which
might be latent or undeveloped in ourselves. Those with Uranus there seek a highly
original, spirited, dynamic, inventive, magical and charismatic partner – someone who
wakes them up and offers change or new vistas. However, a person of this nature is not
likely to be the kind who brings a great degree of stability and security to a relationship.

Our society places a lot of pressure on people to marry – to such a degree that those
who are not married or in a close conventional relationship may feel that there is
something dreadfully flawed about them. Those leading a single lifestyle may need to
remind themselves that they are worthwhile whether they are in a relationship or not.
The 7th house also refers to social interaction in general and the principles of Uranus
will apply here, possibly indicating those who are meant to bring new ideas, insights
and breakthroughs to society in general, by virtue of their work or who they are.

Uranus in the 8th
The 8th house, the natural domain of Scorpio, engenders those kinds of emotions and
feelings so often awakened by the agony and the ecstasy of love – passions like lust,
jealousy, rage, envy, possessiveness and vindictiveness. Uranus seeks to approach this
sphere somehow differently from the way most people go about it. Often those with
Uranus in the 8th have a compelling urge to free themselves from the restrictions of the
basic instinctual nature, and to overcome being ruled by such emotions. They may
continually expose themselves to situations which challenge them to rise above and
develop detachment from these primal instincts in order to forge a broader and more
tolerant understanding than such messy feelings allow – for instance, the concept of a



communal marriage or even husband-and wife-swapping. In some cases they may try
this sort of liberality and fail miserably.

Similarly, they may seek to express the instinctual nature in other ways than merely
for the purpose of mating and procreation. Hence, the reputation of this placement for
some degree of sexual curiosity and experimentation. Others might look for techniques
and systems which enable them to transcend the realm of libidinal desire through
redirecting the sex drive into other outlets.

In cases I have seen, Uranus in the 8th alternates between the extremes of excessive
passion and inhumane coldness. For instance, believing fervently in a certain cause,
they may not think twice about planting a bomb in a department store if this would
promote their mission. One Nazi leader eventually hanged for atrocious war crimes,
Joachim von Ribbentrop, had Uranus in Scorpio in the 8th ruling an Aquarian
Ascendant.

Those with Uranus in the 8th often have a desire to probe beneath the surface level
of existence to discover the more subtle laws of nature operating in life. Astrology,
psychology, alchemy, the occult, magic, sub-atomic physics or modern chemistry might
interest them. One man who literally explored the potentially transformative and
explosive possibilities of the deeper strata of life was Enrico Fermi. Born with Uranus
in Sagittarius (the sign of the explorer) in the 8th house, he not only discovered uranium
fission but also produced the first nuclear chain reaction. Along similar lines, Uranus in
the 8th may be fascinated by what death is all about, and attempt to understand it in a
less conventional framework. Psychic and telepathic experiences are not uncommon for
people with Uranus in this house, although some may not have too much control over
them when they occur.

On a more mundane level, sudden reversals of fortune could come through marriage,
inheritance and business partnerships. Also, phases of the life may end suddenly and
irreversibly: seemingly overnight, one chapter finishes and another begins, or an
unforeseen event drastically alters the direction in which the person is heading.

Uranus in the 9th
Uranus is always searching for ‘the truth’ and what better house to do it in than the 9th,
the natural abode of Sagittarius. Rather than adhere to traditional or orthodox views,
they must independently find a meaningful set of beliefs or a philosophical system by
which to order life. But in true Uranian fashion, they will keep on destroying systems
they have created for the sake of discovering or trying out new ones which might be
broader or more inclusive.

The image of God may be cast in the likeness of Uranus – the starry heavens – vast
and very difficult to grasp. And yet, just as there are laws which guide the movement of
the planets, somewhere in it all, there must be a system. (Einstein, who had Aquarius on
the 9th house cusp, once remarked, ‘I cannot believe that God plays dice with the
cosmos.’) Those with Uranus difficultly aspected could, at certain times, adhere to quite
odd or fanatical cults. Too abstract, their philosophy may not translate easily into
everyday life. Occasionally, they might have flashes or insights into what they believe



are the workings of the Divine or Universal Mind. Lois Rodden gives the chart of Guy
Ballard with Uranus in Leo in the 9th squared to Pluto in Taurus in the 6th. Ballard
founded a religious movement called ‘Mighty I am’, and reportedly received messages
from ‘the Ascended Masters’, and glimpsed his previous lives from seventy thousand
years back. A more down-to-earth use of this placement is shown in the chart of
Mohandas Gandhi with Uranus in Cancer in the 9th ruling Aquarius on the IC (the
homeland). On the basis of his strongly felt philosophy (Uranus in the 9th), he led his
people from colonialism to freedom (Uranus rules Aquarius on the 4th). The profound
sage and mystic, Krishnamurti, was born with Uranus in Scorpio in the 9th ruling an
Aquarian Ascendant. Interestingly, he preached that people should find the truth on
their own (9th house Uranus rules the 1st house of self) rather than trying to follow the
teachings of any particular guru or sect.

Often those with Uranus in the 9th will hold progressive views in the field of
education. They may seek an alternative rather than traditional academic structure –
such as an independent study programme or the Open University in England. At any
time in the degree programme, they may decide to make an abrupt change in their
course of study. A 9th house Uranus can bring new ideas, concepts, and insights into
any field.

Unusual and unexpected experiences can come through travel. They might, while
visiting another country, encounter people or ideas which wake them up and shatter old
structures. An in-law may even be the catalyst for inspiring new vision.

If Uranus is not too adversely aspected, they will probably have an uncanny insight
into future trends, as if they can feel the pulse of society. The science fiction writer
Jules Verne, who often anticipated the course of the future, was born with Uranus in
Capricorn in the 9th.

Uranus in the 10th (and Aquarius on the MC)
Those with Uranus in the 10th need to contribute something original and progressive to
society. They don’t want to be seen as ordinary, but rather as forces for change,
rebellion or innovation. Because the 10th is Capricorn’s natural domain, there is the
ability to channel their new ideas or insights through concrete vehicles. Often, they will
hold fairly liberal or even radical political views. Karl Marx, who inspired others with
his vision of a new world, was born with Uranus in Sagittarius in the 10th ruling an
Aquarian Ascendant. The artistic genius and gifted inventor Michelangelo was born
with Uranus in Scorpio in the 10th ruling Aquarius on the 2nd. Disraeli, so far the only
Jew ever to be Prime Minister of England, also had Uranus in the 10th. With Aquarius
on the cusp of the 3rd, he was noted for his extreme speech and dress, and even wrote a
few novels.

I have known a number of people with this placement who have resigned from jobs
because they didn’t agree with how things were being run. Others I have come across
constantly change their work in search of something more meaningful to do. Like
Uranus in mythology, they destroy their creations and start again. Edmond Rostand
(Uranus in Cancer in the 10th ruling Aquarius in the 5th) was first a lawyer, then a



journalist, before he finally became a poet and playwright and author of Cyrano de
Bergerac. Sometimes, those with Uranus in the 10th have unusual jobs. (One woman
with this placement headed a research project into the effects of dance and high protein
diet on body fat in women.) Or they wake up one morning with a revelation which
renders their present work obsolete. Sometimes events seemingly out of the control will
disrupt the status quo in the career. Again, if they have not acknowledged their
restlessness or need for a change in this area, they may in some way provoke this to
happen. Others will simply fall prey to collective trends which shatter or alter their
course of direction, such as redundancy or changes of political power.

The mother may be cast in a Uranian light. She might be viewed as eccentric or
unconventional in some way. She might have had outside interests which interfered
with the mothering role, or felt trapped as a parent. The child could have sensed a
degree of restlessness in her, as if she really wanted to be somewhere else. If the mother
was very erratic, then the child would be forced to develop more independently, not
being able to rely on the mother as most children do. At first, children may resent this,
but later reflect thankfully that they had a chance to grow freely and learn how to meet
the world on their own. Sometimes the mother is conventional on the outside, but
underneath is bursting with a desire to break loose. Children sense this and later ‘live
out’ the mother’s unfulfilled wishes – they carefully avoid getting hemmed in by too
much maternal or familial responsibility. Sometimes, Uranian mothers feel guilty about
their lack of typical maternal instincts, forgetting their good traits – loving without
being smothering, they mirror and represent free-thinking for the child. Women with
Uranus in the 10th may be happier raising children after they have satisfied some of
their need to contribute to society.

Uranus in the 10th is similar to Aquarius there. With Aquarius on the MC, work is
needed which benefits as many people as possible, and which allows scope for the
inventive and idealistic side of the person’s nature to come to the fore.

Uranus in the 11th
Powerfully placed in its own house, Uranus in the 11th can expand the concept of being
part of a group to its broadest dimensions. Their main task is a far-reaching one: to
widen their individual identities to include all living creatures. This goal may never be
realized completely, but it is liberating just striving to accomplish it.

Ultimately, those with Uranus in this house are capable of feeling a sense of kinship
with the whole human race. Rather than just seeing the world as an assortment of
people and nations attacking and accusing one another, they have the ability to view the
whole planet as one family struggling to resolve its problems and conflicts. The
difference in these two perspectives is subtle but profound.

Those with Uranus in the 11th should seek others with whom they can link together
in the pursuit of a common goal. Generally we form friends with neighbours or people
we meet at work; but people with Uranus in this house feel most connected to those
with whom they share a similar vision. They don’t have to be geographically close to
each other to be part of the group – what is important is that they are dedicated to the



same ideals and objectives. Someone once said that ‘the group is the self of the altruist’
and this may ring true for Uranus (or Neptune) in the 11th. Obviously, many people
with Uranus in the 11th won’t even begin to see it this way; nonetheless, such
possibilities do exist for this placement.

More generally, Uranus in the 11th enjoys mixing with like-minded people, whether
it’s a group of scientists or astrologers. They may serve a ‘Uranian function’ within any
group: presenting challenging and radical ideas, playing the devil’s advocate, or
sparring with other members to make the debate more lively. If Uranus is difficultly
aspected, they might promulgate revolutionary ideas which could be too hard-hitting
and drastic. They may also fall out with other members of the group over a matter of
principle. Like Mars in the 11th, on one level Uranus may be ambivalent in a group.
They enjoy sharing and being part of something larger, and yet are threatened by losing
their individuality and freedom in the process.

On a personal level, they will generally have strong feelings about the meaning of
friendship and expect others to live up to these. Sometimes their high ideals may be
unrealistic given the more selfish and instinctive side of human nature. This placement
could indicate friends who serve as important catalysts for change. Likewise, they could
be the agents who bring fresh experience to their friends. Some people with Uranus in
the 11th may have a fascination for slightly eccentric people, who express sides of their
natures that those with this placement are not acknowledging in themselves. Sometimes
they have many different types of friends who wouldn’t mix easily with one another.

Their goals and objectives in life could change radically in a relatively short span of
time, as if they wake up one day with a new vision which they must follow.

Uranus in the 12th
The 12th house represents the collective sea out of which we all emerge. Those with
Uranus in the 12th need to take a deep breath and jump in, not forgetting to bring along
their best diving equipment and research apparatus. Through exploring the unconscious
it is possible for them to regain a sense of continuity with evolutionary and historic
processes and glimpse the guiding patterns on which their lives are based. It’s not
everyone’s cup of tea, but in whatever house Uranus is placed, we have to take risks and
be different.

People with Uranus in the 12th can approach the whole unconscious realm in an
inventive, original and intuitive way. They have access to the mind’s storehouse of
ancestral wisdom – experiences accrued in the past and inherited through previous
generations. Some find the key to unlocking this treasure through drugs, others through
meditation or any form of artistic expression which allows them to ‘tune into’ these
ancient records of experience.

The philosophy and radical psychology of R. D. Laing form one of the clearest
expositions of what a 12th house Uranus is all about. Laing, who was born with Uranus
in Aries in the 12th ruling Aquarius on the cusp of the 12th, wrote that ‘the need to
know who one is appears to be the most deep rooted in humanity.’4 Sceptical of almost
every social institution in existence (including the family), he believes that the mystical



state of consciousness is the only salvation left for the oppressed individual. He
maintains that if people could go deep into their unconscious psychoses, in their own
way and at their own pace, they would eventually re-emerge from their regression
repaired and more whole. On this basis, he established his own institution (Uranus in
Aries in the 12th) – homes in which people could go on a ‘voyage within the self’.5

Dr Arthur Janov, born with Uranus in Pisces in the 12th ruling Aquarius on the cusp
of the 11th, is another well-known and controversial psychologist. Like Laing, he also
set up his own institution. At Janov’s Primal Therapy Institute in Los Angeles, people
are encouraged to delve deeply into their unconscious (12th) and relive painful
experiences from early life. During primal therapy, patients are helped to feel what they
were too frightened to feel when they first had the experience. By reconnecting to and
abreacting the pain stored up in the psyche, they aim to free themselves from tensions
and symptoms they have been carrying around for years. Again, similar to Laing, the
principle is that by freeing what is in the unconscious (Uranus in the 12th) a person can
be renewed and liberated.

Uranus in the 12th can also give a close attunement to movements within the
collective, often before these actually manifest (the 12th house contains the seeds of the
future as well as the remnants from the past). In a collection of her essays on the outer
planets and their cycles, Liz Greene points out that Uranus in this house often has ‘a
very strong interest in political movements and ideologies, but in a rather compulsive as
opposed to reflective way.’6 Adolf Hitler, born with Uranus in Libra in the 12th ruling
Aquarius on the cusp of the 4th (the homeland), is a case in point. His vision was not
rationally and logically thought out, but rather ‘appeared in his mind full-blown’.7
Uranus gets the rumblings of something even before it happens.

From what I have observed, if Uranus is well-aspected in the 12th, these people have
a wealth of good advice to offer others – as if insight and knowledge are there on tap.
However, if Uranus has many hard aspects, then their vision is sometimes impaired by
their own personal neuroses and complexes. These will have to be ‘cleaned up’ before
the positive benefits of this placement are felt. They are also more likely to be thrown
off course by negative feelings in the atmosphere. Regardless of how Uranus is
aspected, there is often an interest in parapsychology and spiritualism.

A deep-seated reluctance to relinquish their independence can make it difficult for
them to settle down or take root. One part of them might desperately want closeness and
security but somehow they manage to thwart this happening. Exploring their own
unconscious motivations can free them from this conundrum and help alleviate a
lingering sense of loneliness and isolation.

Some join secret societies or engage in ‘behind-the-scenes’ work for groups. They
may align themselves with institutions of a progressive or unusual nature. Acting as a
channel through which new ideas and trends are established, they could revolutionize or
disrupt the workings of any institution with which they are involved.

Periods of confinement or incarceration may produce surprising effects. In a few
cases I have seen, they have not acknowledged a need to temporarily retreat from life
and consequently attracted ‘accidents’ or illnesses which forced them to do so. Sudden



reversals of fortune are possible: something which seems ominous and threatening may
turn out to be completely different from what they expect, and vice versa.

It could be fruitful to enquire about anything unusual which might have occurred to
the mother during the gestation period – in some way, this may have impressed itself on
the psyche of the developing embryo.

Notes – Chapter 25
1. Jane Malcomson, ‘Uranus and Saturn: Castration and Incest, Part I’, The Astrological

Journal, The Astrological Association, London, Summer, 1982.
2. Rudhyar, The Astrological Houses, p. 198.
3. Naumann, The American Book of Nutrition and Medical Astrology, Astro Computing

Services, California, 1982, p. 9.
4. Laing cited in Shaffer, Humanistic Psychology, Prentice-Hall, New Jersey, USA,

1978, p. 50.
5. Laing cited in Shaffer, p. 56.
6. Liz Greene, The Outer Planets and Their Cycles, CRCS Publications, Reno, Nevada,

1983, p. 57.
7. Liz Greene, The Outer Planets and Their Cycles, p. 57.



26.

NEPTUNE AND PISCES THROUGH THE HOUSES

The planet Neptune is associated with the Roman god of the same name and the Greek
Poseidon. Personifying water, Poseidon was the god of the seas, lakes, rivers and
underground streams. Although inhabiting a vast palace at the bottom of the ocean, he
resented Zeus’ sovereignty and thirsted for more worldly possessions. Poseidon
wrestled with Athene for Attica and lost; unsuccessfully, he battled with Hera for
Argolis; and he failed to capture Aegina from Zeus. Angry and forlorn, he flooded the
lands he couldn’t win, or dried up their rivers in spite. Like Poseidon (Neptune), our
volatile emotions often yearn for things we can’t have.

The astrological element of water, associated with the realm of the feelings, acts
similarly to Poseidon in other ways. When he emerged from the sea, one of two things
happened. Sometimes the water opened joyfully and magnificently around him. At
other times, however, his appearance was signified by wild tempests and furious storms.
Likewise, when our feelings come to the surface, they can be full and divinely inspired
or they can sweep over us like a tidal wave.

The planet Neptune, like the Moon and Venus, is another anima energy –
representing that part of us which fuses, adapts, mirrors and seeks union with others.
While Mother Moon gains her identity by reflecting another, and charming Venus gives
with the intention of receiving a little back in return, soulful Neptune wants to lose his
identity by merging with something greater than himself.

Whereas the main task of the isolated ego (Saturn) is self-preservation, the planet
Neptune symbolizes the yearning to dissolve the boundaries of the separate self and
experience unity with the rest of life. We’ve encountered these two principles already in
the general discussion of the 12th house, and if you remember, they are not the best of
friends. In fact, Saturn (representing the structuring principle of the ego), afraid that he
would be overthrown by Neptune, swallows him at birth. For many people, the prospect
of disintegration of the individual identity is frightening, and they will relegate Neptune
– the urge to reconnect to the wholeness of life – to the unconscious. But (to borrow Liz
Greene’s analogy), whatever is shoved into the basement has a way of burrowing itself
out from under the house and appearing on the front lawn. If Neptune is suppressed, it
doesn’t go away – instead, it disguises itself and sneaks up on us. In Neptune’s house,
we may unwittingly ‘set up’ circumstances in which we have no other alternative than
to sacrifice our personal wants and desires in obedience to forces which we cannot
change or do anything to alleviate. In this way, the individual ego is cleansed of its
sense of almighty superiority and separateness. Purified, we are welcomed into the arms
of something bigger than ourselves.

Actually, it was Jupiter who rescued Neptune from Saturn’s tyranny: the individual



ego’s own desire to expand itself (Jupiter) eventually undermines its very separateness
by allowing Neptune to run free. Likewise, many people, rather than dreading the
disintegration of the ego, actively encourage it, in a pursuit of the expansion and bliss
associated with an unbounded existence. This can be constructively achieved through
meditation, faith and worship, artistic creativity, and a selfless devotion to another
person and cause; or more dangerously attempted through drugs, alcohol or an
unbridled abandonment to the passions.

Some people, vaguely remembering a lost Eden of the past, look for heaven on earth
in Neptune’s house. In the belief that Neptune should give us everything, we may pin
great hopes on the affairs of his domain, as if our very redemption lay there. Having
bargained on nothing less than absolute ecstasy, we are invariably disappointed when
the external world fails to deliver the goods. Wounded and embittered, we may look
elsewhere around the house for comfort – often in the liquor cabinet or medicine chest.
However, for some of us, the disillusionment entailed in not obtaining what we desire
from Neptune is an entry point into another dimension of experience: rather than
searching for our happiness solely in the outer realities of life, we turn our attention
inward. And eventually we may discover that the bliss we were looking for was already
there, inside ourselves, hidden away in Neptune’s indestructible golden palace under the
sea.

It took Jupiter to rescue Neptune, and very often in the house in which Neptune is
placed we are looking for a saviour. Playing the victim or the underdog (at the same
time abnegating personal responsibility and effort), we hope somebody will appear to
take care of that area of life for us. Conversely, some people invert this dynamic and
attempt to be a saviour for others in that domain. Unlike Saturn, this is not undertaken
because of the pressure of an ‘ought’ or ‘should’, but much more out of a sense of
empathy for the other person’s pain. In some cases, we may even become the living
embodiment of some sort of popular image or ideal in Neptune’s sphere – anything
from a neo-god or goddess, or a superstar, to a public scandal or convenient scapegoat.

As might be imagined of the god of the sea, Neptune is rather slippery. Something
we are chasing in this area of life may mysteriously evade us. Often, instead of facing
up to the facts, we will act like Blanche Dubois and create the illusion that everything is
wonderful. We may choose to see only that which supports our fantasy. Sooner or later,
reality will probably crash down on us. Then again, maybe not: we can never be sure
with Neptune.

Neptune is associated with the things of the etheric world, which cannot necessarily
be grasped, measured or seen. It is the essence underlying form, rather than the form
itself. Through Neptune’s house we may glimpse a higher or altered state of
consciousness, a view of infinity and eternity and that which transcends normal
boundaries of space and time. On another level, Neptune is fog, mist and nebulousness;
and by house, it may show where we are perennially confused, vague and unclear about
our aims and goals or inclined to drift and float with whatever comes along. If (as
Neptune believes) everything is All One, then, whatever happens, it shouldn’t make that
much difference to us anyway.



Two figures associated with Neptune are Dionysus and Christ. Both preached
relinquishing the separate identity and the need to merge with something numinous and
divine. Dionysus gathered a group of followers and with the help of the intoxicating
effects of wine they were transported via feeling and ecstasy to another realm.
Oblivious to the mundane realities of life, they simply abandoned themselves to
something greater than the self – not bothering if their cars were parked on a double
yellow line, or if they were meant to be at home putting dinner on the table for their
husbands. In this sense, they transcended time, boundary and form.

Christ is considered by some to be ‘the Neptunian Master’. Both a victim and a
saviour, he taught ‘the giving up’ of the self to the spirit. The establishment – ordinary
ego-consciousness – found it difficult to recognize either Christ or Dionysus as gods.
Both of them suffered forms of dismemberment. Both died, but were born again. The
house position of Neptune is where we may share, to some degree, the experience of
these divinities. In this domain, we may fall apart, so that we can come back together
again in a different way, opened up to something beyond the ego. Attitudes of
willingness, acceptance and faith aid the process. Sometimes, in Neptune’s house, we
have no other viable choices.

Pisces on the cusp or contained within a house is similar to Neptune there. The house
with Neptune in it will influence any house where Pisces is found. For instance,
Marilyn Monroe was born with Neptune in the 1st house and Pisces on the 8th house
cusp. She came to symbolize an idealized image of feminine sexuality (Pisces on the
8th) and sacrificed much of her own identity in the process (Neptune in the 1st house of
self).

Neptune in the 1st
In the 1st house, Neptune diffuses the boundary between a sense of the self as a separate
entity and other people. In extreme cases, those with Neptune in the 1st are like mirrors
– they just reflect who or whatever is in front of them. Because they often derive their
identities from what other people want or need them to be, others may look to them for
their salvation: ‘At last, here is a person who really understands and appreciates me, and
who is just naturally everything that I need in another person.’ However, the
honeymoon is over when they observe that Neptune in the 1st opens up, adjusts and
adapts in a similar fashion to whoever is around, not just to them. We might rightfully
praise 1st house Neptunes for their exquisite sensitivity to other people; but we might
also concern ourselves with their lack of a clear or well-defined sense of their own
identity and direction in life. Not having crystallized a sense of self, they appropriate
someone else’s.

In general, the 1st house thrust to distinguish the self as a distinct and unique
individual conflicts with Neptune’s tendency to dissolve and merge back into a state of
non-differentiated wholeness. Just when they build up something or establish a more
solid footing, events seemingly conspire to erode or undermine the foundations – and
down comes the structure. For whatever reasons, a person with Neptune in the 1st is
being asked to sacrifice or let go of the sense of being a separate self. This kind of



selfless or egoless state is the goal of many mystical seekers, and this placement of
Neptune may be ‘a natural’ in this respect. But one might rightfully enquire whether or
not Neptune in this house ever had a self to relinquish in the first place.

The problem may stem from the early bonding with the mother. We cannot grow
separate and self-reliant unless another person has loved us enough to make us feel that
we are worthy of being ‘a somebody’. A symbiotic closeness to Mother is the first stage
of this process: in the early years, we need a close, caring, good-enough mother in order
to develop the courage and strength to grow into an autonomous individual. If this does
not happen, we are not only afraid to be ourselves, but we will keep searching for that
‘perfect fit’ with another person which we didn’t have as children, adjusting ourselves
all out of proportion to achieve this. But the problem is that if we are not enough, then
nobody else is ever enough either.

However, if as children we are secure with Mother’s love, we eventually begin to
feel that we can do with a little less of it. Besides, we want to explore more of the
environment, venturing out and experimenting with things. At this stage, Mother must
be willing to let go of us – otherwise we may be made to feel guilty about our need for
separateness.

With Neptune in the 1st house, something could have gone askew at either of these
two important stages of symbiosis and separation. If there was not a secure enough tie
with the mother, then they might be afraid to develop a strong, individual identity. But if
they were forbidden by her to separate, they may never have had the chance to find out
who they are in their own right. With the help of therapy or any of the many forms of
self-exploration available today, it is never too late to start.

With Neptune in the 1st, the personality or style may embody any of the possible
connotations of Neptune. While their diffuseness may make them appear mysterious or
enigmatic, some wander aimlessly through life. Many too easily slip into the role of
martyr and then feel resentful if others take advantage of them. Some are fair game for
anyone who offers to save or rescue them. A few may turn to hard drugs and alcohol in
an attempt to alleviate the harsher realities of life and find themselves worse off in the
end.

However, there are many positive ways to embody Neptune. Because they can
encompass realms beyond the ordinary ego-borders of existence, they may be able to
give expression to collective feelings and images through some sort of artistic medium.
Their vision may be truly inspiring to other people who are unable to see so easily in
those dimensions. And this placement often appears in the charts of excellent
counsellors and healers: the diffuse boundaries of Neptune enable them to ‘tune into’
and help other people. Some dedicate their whole lives to uplifting or redeeming the
planet.

If Neptune is close to the Ascendant, the person may never really have wanted to be
born in the first place. They will need to learn to say ‘Yes’ to life to counter-effect a
persistent longing to return back to the oceanic totality of the womb. Alternatively,
these desires may be projected forward in a spiritual direction, giving rise to the
mystical longing for higher states of consciousness.



With Neptune in the 1st, some confusion may attend the birth and early years of life.
I have seen this placement in the charts of people whose actual births were shrouded in
mystery or kept secret from others. Early conditions may not contribute to their sense of
trust and security in life, as if they are called upon to sacrifice the degree of love and
attention that is normally bestowed on the newborn infant. Illness at an early age could
further accentuate the tenuous hold they have on life in their bodies.

Neptune in the 2nd
Like Uranus in this position, Neptune in the 2nd requires a deeper understanding and
feeling for the whole sphere of money, possessions and resources. Neptune has a
dissolving effect wherever it is placed in the chart, and in the 2nd, any tangible or outer
forms of security may be subject to this influence. Unconsciously, the person may feel
guilty about acquiring money or holding onto possessions, believing that what belongs
to one should belong to all. Conversely, they may feel that the world owes them a living
– what is other people’s should rightfully be theirs as well. Whether they like it or not,
watery Neptune creates fluidity in the 2nd house sphere.

I have seen a variety of manifestations of this placement. Sometimes, it indicates
general confusion and nebulousness in the handling of finance and investment.
Unforeseen forces undermine speculation – what seemed safe turns out to be a fraud. In
some cases, thieves come in the night and claim what they feel should be theirs. Or they
may receive a large cheque in the first post and a bill for the same amount in the second.
Or, generous to a fault, they are a soft touch for any hard luck story, continually
reaching into their pockets to give spare change away, or getting out the cheque book to
donate to a worthy cause.

Poseidon had great riches under the sea and yet he still longed for the earthly power
of Zeus. Those with Neptune in the 2nd may be dissatisfied with what they already have
and always want more – especially if someone else has it. They may worship money
and possessions as the key to heaven on earth, or value money because it allows them to
live out their fantasies. Even if they achieve the material status they hope to gain, they
may discover that it isn’t all that they imagined it would be. Something is still lacking.

Ultimately, rather than seeking security and well-being from outside of themselves,
they might need to reconsider their value systems and look inward to what some call the
‘higher spiritual planes’ for fulfilment. They might even unconsciously provoke this by
‘setting up’ losing what they have gained or dearly value as if they sense that giving
everything away is their path to rebirth and redemption.

I have observed that these people are often unsure of their own inner value and
worth. They may not be appreciative enough of their innate gifts, such as their
sensitivity and empathy, their artistic and creative imaginations, and the ability they
have to heal and soothe others. Money could be earned through a ‘Neptunian
profession’: acting, modelling, painting, poetry, dance, fashion, photography, healing,
the selling of alcohol or drugs, etc. Professions as varied as that of a chemist, clergyman
or merchant marine could be connected to a 2nd house Neptune.

Finally, there is a tendency to imbue the material world with symbolic and emotional



significance. An object or possession may be valued not so much for what it is, but for
the feelings it inspires in them. Often, they can perceive the essence underlying the
form itself.

Neptune in the 3rd
Neptune is where we are looking to be reconnected with a sense of wholeness and
oneness in life. By contrast, the usual 3rd house type mind is one which analyses,
compares, discriminates and observes the relationship of one thing to another. While
Neptune in the 3rd can (just about) still do this, the mind must also be used for other
‘higher’ purposes – as the vehicle or eye through which the soul looks outward. On a
deep level, those with Neptune in the 3rd know that, divorced from love, the mind is like
a pair of scissors which cuts life into shreds.

On one level, Neptune in the 3rd can confuse and scatter the mind, giving rise to
vagueness and woolly thinking. However, at other times, the Neptunian mind exhibits
an uncanny insight into the undercurrents and subtleties in the environment. They sense
the ‘meta-message’ or hidden nuances and meanings behind what is said or exchanged.
What they lose in terms of precise analytical abilities, they gain by being able to view
the bigger picture more clearly.

There are some dangers to bear in mind. Their desire to see what is beautiful and
divine in their surroundings can produce a kind of selective perception in which only
the good is seen and that which doesn’t fit into this category goes unnoticed. They may
be so open to the mind and opinions of others that they may think they are thinking
their own thoughts when in actual fact they have picked up the point of view of
somebody else in the environment. In some cases, they serve as spokespeople for
others. Sometimes, they believe that knowledge is what will redeem them. As a result
they may study avidly and yet never feel they know enough. Or they are gluttonous for
other people to come along and say something which inspires them.

Neptune in the 3rd may not feel comfortable expressing itself through ordinary
channels of communication. What they have to say or what they have experienced may
be more aptly demonstrated through dance, poetry, song or a picture they paint or take
with a camera. Often, there is a shyness in the early schooling situation. I have seen this
placement in some cases of dyslexia. Or they may be confused in such a way that they
turn up to appointments on the wrong day, take down numbers or addresses incorrectly,
and invariably get lost or waylaid on short journeys. In extreme cases, it may indicate
mental instability, hallucinations, and paranoia where they imagine all sorts of things
happening ‘out there’ which are actually projections of their inner world.

Sacrifices may have to be made in Neptune’s domain, and in the 3rd, this may entail
a need to adjust and be extra-sensitive to a sibling, who for some reason is a problem or
has difficulties. In certain cases I have seen, the ghost of a dead sibling haunts one or
both of the parents, and the remaining child has been confused with the one who has
passed away. If a brother or sister has died, those with Neptune in the 3rd may carry a
sense of guilt, imagining they are partially responsible for the death. (Neptune diffuses
the boundary between the self and others, and in the 3rd, the person may feel that he or



she is responsible for everything which happens in the immediate environment.) A
parent can help children with Neptune in the 3rd by respecting their imaginations and
yet spelling things out as honestly and clearly as possible, bearing in mind what is age-
appropriate.

I have also seen Neptune in the 3rd in the charts of children without siblings who
long for companionship with the brother or sister they never had. Some may assuage
loneliness and feel more complete by inventing imaginary playmates. In some cases of
adopted children, Neptune is found in the 3rd, as if they are not sure where they truly fit
in or belong. In a few examples of this placement, sacrifices had to be made in the area
of education. They had to leave school to work for the family, or money was tight and
an older brother or sister got there first.

A number of people I know with Neptune in the 3rd show exceptional ability as
teachers – especially working with children who have learning difficulties. They can
find ways to communicate with and understand the child that other teachers may not be
able to grasp.

Neptune in the 4th (and Pisces on the IC)
Someone with this placement once said to me that she felt as if she had swallowed a
mirror. From deep down inside, those with Neptune in the 4th absorb and reflect the
atmospheric influences around them. If possible, they should exercise caution in
selecting the environments in which they live. Of course, discrimination and free choice
are not always on the same menu as Neptune.

This is a very hard placement to pin down, and I have seen it operating in a number
of ways. Some people with it, no matter what the aspects to Neptune are, have reported
to me the joyful wonders of their idyllic early home life – children at play in the garden,
the closeness of the family, mother’s bread, daddy’s knee, grandpa’s stories, etc. And
for many people, a positive 4th house Neptune indicates this kind of supportive and
loving home background, which is such a good base for later development. However,
some appear to spend much of their later years yearning to be back there, and
comparing the problems and drudgery of adult life with the good old days. Some may
have blended so thoroughly with the family, that they have never developed a more
individualistic sense of who they are. The way they think and feel, and their tastes,
opinions and proclivities, reflect those from the early home, full-stop. They may have
come from what family therapists call ‘enmeshed families’: families who live tightly
within closed systems, where there are unwritten rules that no one should behave
differently from what is expected in case it upsets anyone else or causes undue
disharmony. Neptune’s price for remaining within the safe structure of such a family is
that of one’s own personal identity and freedom.

Others with this placement start by telling me of the joys of their early lives, and
then look down, lower their voices and say, ‘But then, it all changed when father lost
his job, my brother became seriously ill, mother had an affair … etc.’ Neptune is back
to his old tricks again, asking for sacrifice and adjustment. In one case of a chart I did
for a woman with Neptune in the 4th, I remember her describing the delights of her



childhood: ‘It was all so wonderful, I wish I could have those happy days back again –
except of course those times I came home from school and found daddy lying drunk on
the floor and mommy beat up …’ In Neptune’s house, a person’s favourite coloured
spectacles are rose.

Making sense of all this is not easy, but there are a few concrete things to be said
about Neptune in the 4th. They will usually be called upon to make sacrifices on the
home front. For instance, this placement shows up in the charts of people who, as
children, had to be extra quiet and controlled in order not to disturb a chronically ill
parent. In other cases I have seen, they were brought up in a collective environment –
perhaps a boarding house or orphanage. Sometimes the home itself was also the
institution where the parents worked, so that although the parents were there, they were
not always available to the child. The child had to watch the parents constantly giving
time and attention to other people, and this caused jealousy, insecurity and pain.

Difficult aspects to Neptune can indicate families which have been broken up or
dissolved in some way. In certain cases, a 4th house Neptune may even mean the
sacrifice or giving up of the homeland. Sigmund Freud, for instance, who left Austria to
escape the Nazis, was born with Neptune in Pisces in the 4th. (Saturn in Gemini in the
8th squared his 4th house Neptune and we all know what he thought about the
undercurrents in the early home environment.) Similarly, Neptune in the 4th could
indicate the giving up of one’s tradition and family patterns as in the case of the Duke
of Windsor (Neptune in Gemini in the 4th ruling Pisces in the 1st). Others will seek
their ‘spiritual home and family’ – not necessarily linked to blood ties. The house may
be used as a meeting place for meditation groups, psychic sessions, or as a haunt for
artists and musicians. Those with Neptune in the 4th might be very happy living by the
sea.

If the 4th is taken to mean the father (the hidden parent), then he will carry
something of the Neptunian projection. For some, it denotes a very sensitive, soft and
feeling father, often poetic and romantic. The father may be over-idealized and then
appear as a disappointment later in life when examined more realistically. It could
indicate an absent or missing father, one of whom the child only has a vague
recollection or an unclear image. I have seen cases where the father belonged more to
the world than the child: he was a clergyman, or a busy doctor, or a famous opera
singer, or a politician, or a well-known actor, or a diplomat. In these cases, the children
are asked to sacrifice the personal father, and often have to find within themselves the
kind of love and support they saw their fathers giving so freely to others.

Neptune in the 4th is sometimes an indication of skeletons in the family closet: an
alcoholic, drug-ridden or mentally disturbed parent or close relative. In a few charts I
have seen with this placement, there was uncertainty about who the real father was. Of
these, two of them only found out in later years that the man they thought was the father
actually wasn’t.

This placement suggests deep spiritual longings which often surface in the second
half of life. Hermann Hesse, the writer who immortalized the spiritual quest in his book
Siddhartha, had Neptune in Taurus in the 4th ruling Pisces on the 3rd house of writing



and communication.
According to many textbooks the later years for those with Neptune in the 4th could

be marked by a peaceful seclusion during which they quietly disengage from life. There
is the danger, however, that they could regress back to the position of a helpless child,
especially if they felt their needs were really never looked after when they were small.
The way we begin life is often the way we end it – unless we bring these unconscious
patterns of childhood to the surface of awareness and do something to change them.
With Neptune in the 4th, this is better done sooner rather than later.

Pisces on the cusp or contained within the 4th is similar to Neptune there. With
Pisces on the IC the search for a broader, all-inclusive identity is probably the best
foundation upon which to build the life.

Neptune in the 5th
In the 5th, Neptune wins some and loses some. On the one hand, this position bestows a
rich and vivid imagination, creative flair and the natural ability to exteriorize the
feelings in a grand and exuberant manner. On the other hand, circumstances they attract
into their lives may require that they give and become what others want and need, rather
than what they would like to be or do for themselves. But should these coincide – that
is, when what they wish to give is what others want and need to receive – then probably
nothing else in the chart will equal the joy and fulfilment promised by this placement.

Back to the sandbox. The first problem is whether or not little Neptune is even free
to go out and play. ‘Poor Mother works so hard at home – I should really stay in and
help her.’ ‘No, don’t think of me,’ poor Mother says. ‘It will be good for you to go out
with your friends – I really don’t mind (sigh).’ Guiltily, but excitedly, Neptune floats on
air to the playground, bubbling with all the fun he is going to have. But what’s this,
nobody is there – ‘How strange, where could they all be? (pause) I wonder what I am
missing?’ ‘Well I can still play on my own.’ He climbs in the sandbox filled with the
inspiration of the castles taking shape in his mind, when along comes Mercury. ‘Sorry
Neptune, your mother sent me – she needs you back home – mind if I borrow your
shovel?’

Sometimes the more those with Neptune (or Pisces) in the 5th search for pleasure,
the more it eludes them. It’s not always this bleak – but they often are called upon to
make sacrifices in the area of creativity. Some may give up a career in the arts for the
sake of a more stable or routine existence. Some will give up a more stable and routine
existence for the sake of a career in the arts. But whether or not a profession in this field
is sought, they will benefit from any spare-time creative outlet which offers them a
chance to express their feelings, emotions and splendid imagination.

Romantically, they are usually bursting at the seams. Imbuing the beloved with
divine qualities, they embark on the romance of all times. The writer F. Scott Fitzgerald
was born with Mars conjunct Neptune in the 5th – and his relationship with Zelda was
the Great American Romance of the period. Besides exhibiting his feelings creatively,
he also openly displayed (5th) his drinking (Neptune). (Along the same lines, the
singer-comedian-actor Dean Martin had a 5th house Neptune as well.) Similar to Scotty



and Zelda (in his case she proved a little too Neptunian to handle), Neptune in this
house may bring complications in love. One version is falling in love with someone
who is unattainable in some way. In this case, the loved one can be safely idealized and
worshipped at a distance, or duly sacrificed with a flair surpassed only by Our Lady of
the Camellias. Very often they identify love with a cause – ‘This person needs me to
save or fulfil him/her.’ Or the reverse – ‘The beloved will salvage and redeem me.’
More positively though, people with Neptune in the 5th possess, through the
expansiveness and numinosity of their love, a natural gift for uplifting and healing
others.

Sacrifices may have to be made regarding children. If difficultly aspected, they may
feel martyred by parenthood: ‘If it weren’t for the kids, I could have done …’ They
might idealize a child or turn the child into their source of salvation. ‘If the child loves
me against all odds, if the child is wonderful or successful, then my life is redeemed.’
Obviously, there must be a willingness on the part of a parent with this placement to
free the child to live his or her own life. The child may reflect Neptunian or Piscean
qualities in the sense of possessing unusual creative or artistic abilities, or the more
challenging manifestations of this planet or sign – mental, physical or emotional
disabilities. What is important is the ‘spiritual growth’ gained through the experience
with children. In whatever sphere of life it is placed, Neptune may indicate a kind of
suffering which has the effect of softening the individual. Invariably, the parent who
loses or is compelled to give up a child will be profoundly affected and altered through
what Neptune has to teach. Some people with Neptune in the 5th work well with
disabled or troubled children and adolescents.

Obviously, if Neptune is adversely aspected they should be very cautious about
gambling and speculation. By nature, Neptune offers no guarantees.

Neptune in the 6th
There are some basic conflicts between the principles of Neptune (Pisces) and those of
the 6th house. Neptune yearns for wholeness, infinity and unboundedness, while the 6th
house (the natural domain of Virgo) divides everything into its component parts,
examines one thing at a time, and clarifies what something is by contrasting it with
something else. While Neptune keeps falling apart in order to be put back together
again in a new and better way, the 6th house likes everything labelled and neatly stored
in its proper place. Obviously, we can’t always have it both ways, and one or the other
principle is going to have to bend. Sometimes the 6th house need for order and efficient
functioning will suppress the Neptunian urges to relax, let go and just float freely. At
other times, the dissolving effect of Neptune will undermine the structure and
organization of everyday life and the body itself. Ultimately, the challenge for those
with Neptune in the 6th is how to function within defined limits and boundaries and yet
not lose sight of their connection to everything else around them.

Neptune in the 6th indicates a sensitive and delicate nervous system, what some
writers call a weak etheric boundary or ‘leaky aura’. As a result, those with this
placement are prone to invasion from outside forces or are more susceptible to germs



and illnesses in the atmosphere. They would be well advised to take up an exercise or
technique which strengthens the nervous system, and they should be cautious to
discover which foods do or don’t agree with their system. They need to find that
balance between indiscriminate indulgence (no boundaries) and over-preciousness in
diet and life (too many boundaries). Usually they are sensitive to drugs and alcohol and
may need much smaller quantities to feel the effects.

Illnesses are often emotional in origin and difficult to diagnose clearly. In some cases
I have seen, they have been diagnosed incorrectly, given a wrong prescription, and
treated for something they didn’t have. Some will benefit by seeking treatment from the
alternative or complementary medicines such as homeopathy, naturopathy, acupuncture,
etc., which approach prevention and cure on a more subtle level than allopathic
medicine in general.

Conversely, those with Neptune in the 6th may have healing abilities and sometimes
choose work which gives expression to these gifts. Some will be deeply aware of the
body as a vessel of the spirit. As with many other 6th house placements, illness can be
understood as a message that something in life is not right and needs adjusting. The
person’s faith and attitudes will play a large part in the course of recovery. Sometimes,
the psychological or spiritual awakening and understanding which comes as a result of
illness will profoundly alter their whole slant on existence.

Though an illness such as cancer cannot be attributed to any one planetary
placement, parallels exist between the dilemma of a 6th house Neptune and the
problems caused by malignant tissue in the body. Due to X-rays, the intake of various
toxins, or just because of an occasional slip-up in its functioning, the body produces
cells which are not properly attuned to the needs of the whole organism. Normally, a
person who is healthy and strong can fight the imperfection, but if the system is weak or
overly stressed then the cell continues to malfunction. Multiplying without restraint, it
produces more rogue cells – none of which are programmed to act in accordance with
the maintenance of the system as a whole. The malignant growth can eventually
undermine the entire body. The right relationship of the cell to the larger system of the
body is analogous to the question raised by Neptune in the 6th – how to function as
separate individuals and yet make adjustments and concessions to the needs of those
around us.

Sacrifices may have to be made in the sphere of work, and they are often sensitive to
the atmosphere in the office. In a few cases, they may be the scapegoats for what goes
wrong or the victim of an employer’s or co-worker’s deceit. On the other hand, fellow
workers might turn to them for salvation and support. If well-aspected, there is usually a
close and uplifting rapport with associates. Some may look to a job to bring them all
their happiness in life. In a few instances I have seen, they have had to work very hard
while not initially receiving the recognition or remuneration they deserve for it.
Employment could entail the use of Neptunian skills – careers in medicine and healing,
chemistry – work which involves artistic imagination, and in some cases jobs in bars
and pubs, or at sea.

Very often, they are not too interested in the mundane practicalities of everyday life.



Any excuse will be found to avoid the drudgery of such unglamorous tasks as
vacuuming, and such boring duties as paying bills on time. Conversely, a few may
become obsessed with the daily chores, as if heaven on earth was achieved through
good organization in life. (Whoever said ‘cleanliness is next to godliness’ might have
had Neptune in this house.) Some will perform practical tasks as a form of service to
others. Housework could also be used as an escape or way of avoiding other areas of
the life that need dusting. Discrimination is advised in choosing servants, au pairs, or
even the car mechanic – we are open to deception in the affairs of Neptune’s house.
Again, disillusionment or pain in the domain of Neptune helps us to recognize our
limits and imperfections and open us to a greater and more comprehensive awareness of
ourselves and life in general.

In its most positive sense, those with Neptune in the 6th can take a divinely inspired
vision and bring it into concrete manifestation. They can also see divinity everywhere.
There is a saying: ‘In every particle of dust, there are present Buddhas without number.’

Neptune in the 7th
Those with Neptune in the 7th encounter complexities in the area of personal
relationship which can serve to change and transform their consciousness and
understanding of life. Through the joys of intimacy and closeness or through any pain,
disillusionment or loss incurred in partnership, they can be reborn into a new level of
awareness.

There are many different manifestations of this placement. Some people will be
looking for a god or goddess to worship, to revere, and to save them. To assuage
feelings of loneliness and isolation they often yearn to be absorbed into another person.
Rather than taking responsibility to become a complete person in their own right, a
partner may be sought to make them more whole. In this sense, they love others
because they need them for something. Taken to an extreme, the other person becomes
like an article of clothing they wear, or a piece of equipment they use, what Martin
Buber calls an ‘I-It’ relationship. Neptune is not entirely happy with this situation – this
planet’s noble ideal of love is to love and not ask anything back in return. If those with
Neptune in the 7th become too dependent on another person, they may find that, in one
way or another, the partner lets them down or the relationship is disrupted.
Consequently, they are faced with having to develop for themselves what they sought in
the other person, and learn a more selfless kind of love in the bargain. Wherever
Neptune is placed in the chart, a lot is asked of us.

The other variety of Neptune in the 7th are those who are looking for someone to
whom they can play saviour. Their idea of relating is to rescue and redeem the other
person. Hence, the reputation of this placement for an attraction to victim types –
alcoholics, drug addicts, criminals, unstable people with a shady or difficult past, etc.
Some will be drawn to artists and inspirational types, such as the musical genius or the
religious prophet, who need an inordinate amount of mothering and cleaning up after.
Very often, the one who has done the looking after and rescuing ends up feeling
martyred and unappreciated.



Unconsciously, some people with Neptune in the 7th believe that by giving
something up they will be cleansed and purified. On the basis of this hidden agenda,
they may fall in love with someone who isn’t free or wholly attainable, such as a person
already married. Obviously, this will involve adjustments on the part of the person with
Neptune there, or perhaps relinquishing the relationship entirely. In some cases I have
seen, those with Neptune here settle into platonic relationships, in which the desires of
the flesh are ‘transcended’.

Those with this placement are often genuinely called upon to give a great deal in
relationships – to make sacrifices for the partner and be accepting of the limitations
which the other person cannot easily resolve. Sometimes they exhibit a kind of
unselfish love which is saintly and worthy of true respect. However, at other times they
may allow themselves to be walked over as if they had no rights in the relationship.
There is a fine line with Neptune between authentic selflessness and tolerance and just
being a doormat.

Not surprisingly, with Neptune in the 7th there is often a very romantic and idealized
notion of what a relationship should be, which doesn’t account for the hard work
involved. A yearning for perfection in the partner and in the partnership itself means
that those with Neptune in the 7th might actually be very difficult people to live with.
Unconsciously, they can be extremely critical and judging of flaws in the other person
which don’t match up to their concept of what their partner ought to be like or fail to
match their notion of Love. Some present the façade of a perfect relationship to the
public, when, in actual fact, it is very far from the ideal. More positively, there may be a
spiritual meeting and union of two people, and an uncanny psychic rapport between
them. However, no matter how divinely ordained the union might seem, there is still the
need to adjust to the differences elicited by personal idiosyncrasies. Two soul-mates can
still argue about the manner in which the other squeezes the toothpaste tube.

After we strip away the fantasy, glamour, ecstasy and romantic notions of love, what
does Neptune leave us? Ultimately, this planet represents a non-attached kind of love, a
love that does not cling, or swallow up any of the people involved. Not a union based
on ‘oughts’ and ‘shoulds’ but one of reciprocity, which respects the other person’s need
for acceptance, not approval. As Marilyn Ferguson writes in The Aquarian Conspiracy,
‘Love is a context, not a behaviour.’1 Somewhere in between demanding that the other
person adjusts to us, or our always adjusting to the other person, is the kind of love that
Neptune envisions.

Besides just referring to marriage and close partnership, the 7th house is the way in
which we meet society in general. Neptune in the 7th can encounter others from the
stance of love, sensitivity and openness, or present a false front which suits any
occasion. A number of artists and musicians whose charts I have done have this
placement, as well as people who counsel and help others in some way. If Neptune is
difficultly aspected, there can be the danger of scandal and problems with public
lawsuits. The person may be ‘scapegoated’, that is, openly punished and admonished
for what others secretly feel guilty about in themselves.



Neptune in the 8th
If Neptune can’t be at home in the 12th, his next favourite house is that of his close
brother Pluto, the 8th. Neptune’s main thrust is the loss of boundaries and separateness
– what better place to do this than in the house of sex, sharing and intimacy. And as a
means of alleviating Neptune’s perennial divine homesickness, the 8th house’s
association with death does the job quite well.

Freud made us aware that many seemingly innocent things can be symbolic of our
sexual drive and interests. For instance, if you dream of smoking a cigar, is that really a
cigar you are thinking of? However, it is also the case that sex itself may be symbolic.
With Neptune (or Pisces) in the 8th, sex, rather than just simply being enjoyed for its
own sake, is often the means to alleviate other very pressing psychological concerns.

For those with Neptune in this house, sex is a way of merging with other people, and
hence transcending the limits of the isolated self. Either through losing their own
boundaries or engulfing those of another, they relieve much more than just a
physiological tension. Reminiscent of the rites of Dionysus, in the throes of physical
love, they satisfy the need to abandon and forget themselves. Sex is also a way of
loosening the reins of personal control and responsibility for the self. They are captured
and captivated by another; they are carried away by a force more powerful than
themselves. It is a form of worship and reverence, a kind of divine seduction, which
brings home to them that something exists which is bigger and greater than they are.

With Neptune in the 8th, physical intimacy is also a respite from loneliness, and
much of the promiscuity and indiscretion associated with this placement may stem from
this motive. Some may also feel that giving themselves sexually is a way of serving,
pleasing or even healing others. It can also be a very convenient way of escaping from
problems in other areas of the life.

I have seen many cases of people with this placement who are confused about their
sexual identities. Neptune is so diffuse, so adaptable, so fluid and so shaped by its
container, that they have difficulty knowing exactly what it is they do want. Conversely,
problematical aspects to Neptune (from Saturn, for instance) also suggest a fear of
letting go – a tension between holding on to boundaries and losing them. Some may
even feel the need to transcend their libidinal desires altogether for the sake of
channelling these energies in other directions. For others, sex may seem like a
disappointment, and not quite as wonderful as it looks in the movies or what they read
in books or hear from friends about it. And still others may feel that their way of
purification and redemption is through sacrificing a sexual relationship with someone to
whom they are strongly attracted. In some instances I have seen, they seemed to always
desire and fantasize about people they were not involved with, rather than the person
with whom they were engaged in a relationship. Neptune is never that content with
what he already has. Besides, if we know a person too well, his or her alien magnetism
eventually wears thin.

Many of the same processes apply to the exchange of values between people. Often
they hope to gain many material benefits from a partner, but ultimately what is acquired
is usually of a much less tangible nature. Strange complications and deceptive



circumstances can affect the whole area of the partner’s money and joint finances. At
times they may be too influenced or even deceived by other people’s values, or envious
about what others own which they don’t. In the end, their greatest satisfaction will come
not from accruing other people’s possessions but rather by helping another person to
develop his or her own values and resources.

It is advisable that they are as straightforward as possible in business dealings and
care should be taken in the selection of business partners. Neptune often brings
confusion, and when signing contracts, the two parties should clarify exactly what the
agreement is. Economic losses and gains will have an important psychological impact,
and ultimately could impel them to find their security and salvation inwardly in values
other than the material. In any case, they are well-advised to seek advice before making
financial investments and in all issues concerning inheritance and taxation.

When Neptune is in any of the water houses, the person is extremely sensitive to and
influenced by undercurrents and feelings in the atmosphere. Depending on the aspects
to Neptune, the experience of intangible and non-material forces can operate
constructively or destructively (Adolf Hitler had Pluto conjunct Neptune in the 8th). In
positive cases, the person will receive guidance and inspiration as if out of nowhere or
may be open to valuable instruction through dreams. It is as if they tap into an invisible
realm where expanded vision and understanding becomes available just at the times
when such broadened awareness is most necessary. For this reason, they can also serve
as sources of comfort and inspiration for others who are experiencing crises. However,
the psychic openness of this position can manifest in less desirable ways. In a few
instances, they may feel ‘possessed’ – as if they have been taken over by something
powerful outside of themselves. Sometimes they may receive deceptive or misleading
guidance from some other dimension.

Since Neptune wants to go Home, and the 8th is the house of Death, those with this
placement might entertain self-destructive fantasies when life gets too tough. These can
be acted out through a misuse of drugs or alcohol. (Marilyn Monroe was born with
Pisces on the cusp of the 8th – not only the cause of death but all the confusion and
uncertainty around it reflect the influence of Pisces there.) Unless Neptune has hard
aspects from Saturn, there is usually not a fear of death, since the desire to transcend
boundaries is so very strong. In line with this, there will often be an interest in the
metaphysical or occult.

Neptune in the 9th
Neptune in the 9th seeks redemption and salvation through a belief system. Those with
this placement yearn to merge with something greater than the self through an often
devotional adherence to a philosophy, religion, cult or guru figure. There is also an
irresistible attraction to anyone or anything which promises the keys to heaven.
Normally their philosophy or religion will require some form of sacrifice and
relinquishment – of the ego, of their possessions, or of former attachments. Many with
this placement will benefit enormously from the following of such doctrines. Others
may join very strange, esoteric or ‘cultish’ groups, and lose themselves through these



involvements. Some may believe that enlightenment will come if they can perfectly
imitate their guru. They fall victim to what is known as ‘the buddha disease’ – dressing,
eating and thinking exactly like the master, and forgetting the importance of just being
themselves. They mistakenly believe that if they behave like an enlightened being they
will become enlightened – forgetting that behaviour is a by-product of consciousness,
and not the other way around. In other words, they ‘mood-make’ themselves into
believing they are realized. Hard aspects to Neptune in the 9th (especially from the
12th) suggest the possibility of ‘spiritual inflation’ – someone who believes that he or
she is God’s messenger or that their own particular cult is the one with a monopoly on
the truth.

With Neptune here, there is the possibility of disappointments with philosophical
systems. If they are looking for that one thing which will be the answer to everything,
then they are liable to disillusionment. In one particular meditation society for which I
did a number of the disciples’ charts, many of them had Neptune in the 9th: their guru
turned out to be an alcoholic. In general with Neptune, pinning the hopes on anything
external to save one, even if it is a very inspired philosophy or belief system, may prove
a let-down until what is being sought externally is found within the self.

Neptune in the 9th describes a very open and impressionable mind, a vivid
imagination, and an interest in what Maslow called ‘the farther reaches of human
nature’. They sense that they could be much more than they already are if they could
only find a way to more fully expand and utilize their faculties and potentials.

They may be confused about what direction to take in higher education. In many
cases I have observed, there was vagueness and vacillation about which subject to make
the major area of focus. Some might believe that education is the answer to everything,
or find a professor who is their special ‘guru’. Others could become disillusioned with
their university or course of study, or find themselves victimized by the system in some
way. A few people I know with this placement incurred drug and alcohol problems
while at university.

Keats wrote that he could ‘never feel certain of any truth but from a clear perception
of its beauty.’ The idea that ‘beauty is truth, truth beauty’ is a very apt description of
one sense of Neptune in the 9th. Similarly, for those with this placement, creative
expression might be inspired by religious or transcendental images or subtle dimensions
of experience, and they could serve as channels to awaken others to these. The
philosophical writer Goethe was born with Neptune in the 9th. Bob Dylan, whose songs
inspired a whole generation, was born with Neptune in this house ruling Pisces on the
3rd (communication). Neptune here could also indicate international fame as an actor,
artist or musician, as in the case of Marlon Brando, Henri Matisse and Jimi Hendrix.

Neptune will express itself in relation to travel and long journeys. For some, travel
will be a means of escape and a way of avoiding something in the immediate
environment. Others may make pilgrimages to find enlightenment, or be drawn to
certain lands which have a Mecca-like enchantment for them. They might envision a
place, go there, and find it is very different from what they imagined. Some may feel a
kind of spiritual tie with a country other than their own. Caution should be taken not to



be deceived by others while in foreign countries.
If Neptune is difficultly aspected, there could be complications with in-laws, or one

who is felt as a responsibility to the person in some way.

Neptune in the 10th (and Pisces on the MC)
Neptune has many different faces in the 10th house of career and standing before the
public. One manifestation of Neptune here is in those who find themselves idealized
and worshipped by the public in general. In some way, they capture the collective
imagination or come to represent a movement or force sweeping through society. There
are many interesting examples: for instance, Karl Marx, whose very name evokes a
whole philosophy of life and history, and who envisioned an ideal state under
communism, was born with Neptune in Sagittarius in the 10th. John F. Kennedy, who as
President embodied a new outlook and vision for America and was worshipped as a
hero by many, was born with Neptune in Leo there. Assassinated while still in office,
Kennedy also came to represent the sacrificial victim side of Neptune. In a sense, both
Marx and Kennedy gave up their personal identities to represent and serve something
greater than themselves – the collective’s longing for redemption.

Tenth house Neptunes may embody various other principles, anything from
representing what is beautiful, stylish and glamorous to that of the outcast and public
scandal. Clint Eastwood, who personifies the image of the perfect rugged hero, and
Bruce Lee, the Kung-Fu master who embodied the graceful victor, were both born with
Neptune in Virgo in the 10th. Besides politics and cinema, other Neptunian careers
include social work, art, fashion, photography, music, dance, religious work and
healing.

However, foggy Neptune in the 10th can indicate vagueness or confusion about
which career to pursue. Some will be dissatisfied with the work if it is not felt as all-
absorbing and inspirational. A few I have seen have worked very hard and devotedly in
return for less recognition or remuneration than they deserved. One man with this
placement worked for a large company which did many shady and corrupt deals, and
yet he was the only one to be arrested and imprisoned for it. Some will feel that their
salvation depends on finding the right work or serving the needs of others. In certain
cases, they may be forced to give up their careers because of a greater influence over
which they have no control. Again, Neptune nudges us along the path of spiritual
growth and expansion in this way, as if we are redeemed and purified by having to let
go and sacrifice what we are overly attached to.

If we take the 10th house to represent the mother, then she will probably carry the
Neptunian projection. She might have been seen as a martyr or victim, someone who
gave up her own identity for the sake of raising the family. In some cases I observed,
the mother had artistic or creative potentials which were cut short for these reasons. The
child may be guilty about feeling happy if the mother is so frustrated, unfulfilled and
miserable, or they could blame themselves for the mother’s condition. Or the mother
may be so lover-sensitive and delicate that the child ends up having to mother the
mother. Although the desire to serve reflects a purpose in itself, those with Neptune in



the 10th may find a connection between their choice of a service vocation later in life
and experiences with the mother during childhood.

In other cases, the parent may be seen as the saviour or redeemer or someone so
idealized that the child feels unworthy to live up to that image. Perhaps Neptune asked
that the mother be let go of and sacrificed for any number of reasons. If the mother
leaves, is ill, has to work many hours to make ends meet, or dies, then the child must
‘give up’ the mother, at least in her physical form. Later in life, the child may search for
the lost ideal mother, or feel somehow inadequate because he or she was deprived of
one. More positively, the mother may represent grace and gentleness, acting as a model
of softness and compassion for the child.

Pisces on the MC or in the 10th house is similar to Neptune there.

Neptune in the 11th
The existential psychologist Viktor Frankl believes that the desire to serve and help
others doesn’t require a reductionist justification – such as that a person does worthy
things because he or she is guilty about something from childhood. Rather, he sees
service as a genuine way of giving meaning to life.2 In addition, caring for others can be
the natural and immediate expression of a feeling of bonding and solidarity with those
with whom we share this planet. Neptune in the 11th inspires this kind of altruism for
its own sake.

Albert Einstein, born with Neptune here, beautifully summed up the challenge of this
placement when he said that ‘our task must be to free ourselves from this prison by
widening our circle of compassion to embrace all living creatures.’3 Many of those with
Neptune in the 11th have a utopian vision and will join groups which promote
humanitarian or social causes. They feel the need to participate with others in bringing
their idea of truth, justice or beauty into the world. Galileo, born with Neptune in
Gemini in the 11th, undermined the very foundation of the establishment in his search
for truth. Alexander Fleming, who developed the life-saving drug penicillin, had
Neptune in the 11th ruling healing and caring Pisces on the 10th house of career. Many
of those with Neptune in the 11th will take up the cause of the underdog. If some
segment of the population is suffering or mistreated, they feel this as deeply as if it is
happening to them. Some will be more attracted to secret sects, artistic groups or
spiritualistic and psychic circles. If Neptune has many hard aspects, the group may have
fine ideals and intentions but somehow never fully bring these to manifestation.

The main thrust of Neptune in the 11th is to abandon the self to the group. Some may
look to a particular group or cult as the means to redemption and salvation and make
many sacrifices for its sake. In less politically minded people, group activities may
simply be a way of escaping from the more mundane routines of life. They could lose
themselves in a social whirl, seeking ever more glamorous friends and parties. Or the
local pub may be the extent of their group involvement.

If Neptune is well-aspected, friends will be supportive and caring. Likewise, a
person with Neptune in the 11th will usually be there to help and nurture associates in
difficulty. However, if Neptune has difficult aspects, they could experience



disillusionment or deception through friendships. They can easily feel that their ideals
of comradeship are betrayed. Some may subtly manipulate a friend by making that
person feel sorry for them. Discrimination should be exercised in the right choice of
friends or groups – it is easy with Neptune here to abnegate personal responsibility if
influenced by a ‘bad’ crowd. Friends may carry the Neptunian projection – ones who
are artists, healers, romantic dreamers, or sometimes just off-beat.

Some with this placement may chase a goal which constantly eludes them or even
set up a pattern of wanting things it would be impossible to have. Again, through
confronting disillusionment in Neptune’s house we are made aware of our limitations
and reminded that something greater than us exists which is running the show.
However, it is still advisable that they offset a tendency to be vague and vacillating
about their direction in life by defining their goals as clearly and realistically as
possible.

Neptune in the 12th
Neptune is strong in its own house, where the very best or the very worst qualities of
this planet may manifest. Those with this placement will be highly sensitive to
undercurrents, movements and unseen forces in the atmosphere. Sometimes they are
more aware of these levels than what is actually happening on the surface level of life.
Pierre Teilhard de Chardin (Neptune in the 12th in Taurus), the late Jesuit priest who
has inspired many people with his mystical vision of all life culminating in an ‘Omega’
point of spiritual union, wrote that awareness can return to the point ‘where the roots of
matter disappear from view’.4 At times, their uncanny vision can be confusing: they see
or are told one thing and yet feel or sense something quite different occurring.

Some may be victimized by their own unconscious – that is, periodically swamped
or overwhelmed by emotions and feelings which others have an easier time keeping at
bay. Montgomery Clift was born with Neptune in the 12th. He had all the Neptunian
acting talent and the glamour that goes with it, but he also suffered from severe guilt
and depression he couldn’t control, and consequently turned to drink and drugs as an
escape route. A few people I know with this placement have reported experiences in
which they felt their ego-boundaries dissolving and their ordinary ‘lensing’ of life go
out of focus. For some, this was welcomed as a mystical or peak experience; but for
others the experience was accompanied by disarming and frightening sensations of
chaos and invasion.

If Neptune is not too adversely aspected, the unconscious mind can serve as a source
of guidance and inspiration, allowing access to the ‘inner, wise person’. There is an
openness to the archaic memory of earlier forms of evolution and they can draw on this
reserve of stored information with startling effect – as if they have wisdom and insight
into experiences of which they have had no firsthand knowledge. There may be an
interest in the philosophy of karma and reincarnation and possibly the belief that they
are in touch with some of their previous lives. Understood properly, this could help
them in more meaningfully meeting the present life. However, for some with this
placement, dwelling on past lives could be a way of avoiding facing what is in front of



them right now. Fantasizing about when they were Cleopatra or Joan of Arc might also
add a bit of glamour to an otherwise dull existence, but it remains to be seen to what
constructive use they put such beliefs.

Neptune in the 12th can denote very strong escapist tendencies: daydreams or
fantasies can swallow them whole, and they might retreat from life by creating their
own little worlds in which to live. For most people with this placement, times of
seclusion and withdrawal will be necessary in order to re-centre and cleanse themselves
of the ‘psychic smog’ which has been absorbed and accumulated from interaction with
others.

One extreme of Neptune in the 12th may be those who feel that they have no control
whatsoever over what happens to them (what some psychologists call an ‘external locus
of control’). While Neptune asks that we acknowledge a greater authority than
ourselves, a total denial of personal power and responsibility is not a healthy situation,
and is best kept in check wherever this planet is placed. Studies have linked depression
and various other forms of psychopathology with people who feel that they have lost
the influence to direct their lives.5

Similar to Venus in the 12th, those with Neptune here suffer because the world
doesn’t always live up to their expectations of what it could be. While they are hurt by
the lack of beauty in the world, it is also possible that their sensitivity to beauty can be a
means of their own self-healing. Beauty has a regenerative effect on the psyche. If they
can make time in their lives to dwell on a sunset, linger by the sea on a night when the
stars are visible, meditate in a chapel while the light shines through a stained glass
window, or go to a gallery to view their favourite painting, they can often revitalize
their own world-weary psyches. As Piero Ferrucci writes in What We May Be, in those
moments a victory occurs ‘over discouragement, a positive affirmation against
resigning ourselves to the process of crystallization and death.’6 In other words, those
people with Neptune in the 12th do have a choice: whether to see beauty or not.

Beauty also has a self-transcending and revelatory power – opening Neptune in the
12th to new worlds and possibilities which others may not be able to glimpse. Taking
responsibility to look for beauty in life will not miraculously erase all their problems,
but it can lighten their load and balance out a tendency to err on the side of
dissatisfaction. Teilhard de Chardin (Neptune in Taurus in the 12th) also wrote that the
aim of evolution is ‘ever more perfect eyes in a world in which there is always more to
see.’7

Performing service is another way of freeing the self from pain and unhappiness, and
giving meaning to life. Again, some common sense is required: some with this
placement may throw themselves totally into other people’s lives as a way of avoiding
their own. Nonetheless, Neptune in the 12th could do very effective work within
hospitals or institutions. Others may be found employed in museums, libraries and art
galleries which protect and preserve the wisdom, beauty and riches of past and present.

Those with Neptune in the 12th might meditate on Jung’s idea that certain problems
in life can ‘never be solved, but only outgrown’. Some new interest or vision arises and
through this widening of view the insoluble problem loses its urgency. On one level we



are caught in a storm, but viewing it from a different level shifts our perspective – like
being on a mountaintop viewing the storm in the valley. The thunderstorm is still there
and still has relevance, but we are now above it.8 Those with Neptune in the 12th will
have to learn to accept the good with the bad, the perfect with the imperfect, and the
beautiful with the ugly. It helps if they can remember and reflect on what is known as
Wittgenstein’s dictum: ‘The solution to the problem of life is seen in the vanishing of
the problem.’9

Notes – Chapter 26
1. Ferguson, p. 435.
2. Yalom, p. 444.
3. Einstein cited in Russell, p. 129.
4. Teilhard de Chardin cited in Ferguson, p. 201.
5. Yalom p.262
6. Ferrucci, p. 188.
7. Teilhard de Chardin cited in Ferguson, p. 71.
8. Jung cited by Jacobi in The Psychology of C.G.Jung, Routledge and Kegan Paul,

London, 1968, pp. 134-5.
9. Wittgenstein cited by Yalom, p. 482.

 



27.

PLUTO AND SCORPIO THROUGH THE HOUSES

Like Uranus and Neptune, Pluto is another ‘de-structuring’ principle, inexorably
pushing life on, and clearing away old forms to make way for the new. Similar to a
snake shedding a skin, something pushes at us from deep within, impels us to move
beyond old or outworn phases of life and leads the way to further growth and evolution.
Eventually the new will become the old and that, too, will have to be relinquished for
yet another phase to follow.

Pluto and Neptune in particular, both underworld gods, share certain similarities in
that they each subversively undermine our old frameworks, forcing us to put our hands
up and surrender. And yet, they differ dramatically in the way they do this. Like
termites or woodworm eating away at the foundations of a house, Neptune slowly
dissolves the rigidities of the old structure. With Pluto, however, the roof caves in on us,
landing like a ton of bricks upon our heads. Tougher than Neptune, Pluto represents a
growing pressure which gradually builds up to a climax, and then finishes us off. While
Neptune coaxes us to change by giving us a sense that we can be cleansed and purified
through sacrifice and suffering, Pluto makes sure that we let go by obliterating the old
form entirely, until there is nothing left. Demanding that a cycle end and a new one
begins, Pluto leaves us with little choice other than to change or die.

One of the oldest known recorded myths, ‘The Descent of Inanna’ (beautifully
recounted in Sylvia Brinton Perera’s book The Descent to the Goddess) describes the
workings of Pluto in a house very clearly. Inanna is the goddess of the heavens, joyful,
radiant and alive. Ereshkigal, whose name means ‘the lady of the great place below’, is
her dark sister living in the underworld, and represents an earlier, matriarchal form of
Pluto. Ereshkigal’s husband has just died and Inanna decides to visit the underworld to
attend his funeral. But instead of receiving Inanna gracefully, Ereshkigal greets her
sister with a dark and poisonous stare and subjects Inanna to the same treatment that all
souls must undergo when they enter Ereshkigal’s realm. There are seven gates or portals
leading to the underworld and at each one whoever passes must strip off a garment or
jewel. The decorously regaled Inanna must pass through each of these seven portals,
removing her robes and gems in the process so that by the time she faces her sister in
the deepest underworld, she is completely naked and ‘bowed low’ before her. In other
words, Pluto-Ereshkigal strips us of those things with which we have adorned
ourselves, those things from which we have attained our sense of identity and
‘aliveness’. Even though a highly unpleasant and demeaning experience, this is, the
myth tells us, a destructive force that we must respect and bow to. After all, it is the
work of a goddess, a divinity representing or serving some higher organizing centre or
power. The house containing Pluto is where we may have to meet and pay homage in



this way to Ereshkigal – a dark goddess, but a goddess nonetheless.
Ereshkigal then kills Inanna and hangs her on a meat-hook in the underworld: the

beautiful and high-minded goddess of the heavens is left to rot. Similarly, the house
Pluto inhabits is where we may have to face what is rotten in us. It is in this domain that
we encounter the dark and undifferentiated sides of our nature – our overwhelming
passions and obsessions, our lust for power, our raw sensuality, our jealousy, envy,
greed, hate, rage and savagery, and our primal wounds and pains. We cannot be whole
until these are brought to the surface, transmuted and properly reintegrated into the
psyche.

This sounds unpleasant, and it often is, but we must remember that Pluto was also
the god of buried treasure and hidden wealth. Through the upheaval he brings,
disowned parts of ourselves banished to the unconscious, and therefore out of reach, are
reclaimed for conscious use and disposition. In this way, we reconnect to lost energy
and also gain access to untapped resources and strengths into the bargain.

Inanna does not remain trapped in the underworld forever. Knowing she was going
somewhere dangerous, she made previous arrangements for her release in case she
found herself in trouble down there. Similarly, Pluto-Ereshkigal may stew us in our own
juices, but we must also have the good sense not to remain stuck only in that which is
loathsome or painful in life. Pluto breaks us down, but like Inanna we must return again
to the upper world and the everyday functioning of life – hopefully with a greater
degree of self-knowledge, wisdom and wholeness.

Inanna escapes from the underworld through the help of two little androgynous men
called ‘the Mourners’. Small and unobtrusive, they slip into the underworld unnoticed
and approach Ereshkigal, who herself is in great pain. Not only has her husband died,
but she is also pregnant and having a difficult birth. In other words, something has died,
but something is also being born. Instead of chastising Ereshkigal for the awful death of
Inanna, the Mourners move very close to her and commiserate with her condition.
Practising a kind of Rogerian therapy, they allow her the space to moan and bitch,
mirroring back her woes and pains. The Mourners have been taught to affirm the life-
force even when it expresses itself through misery, darkness and suffering. So grateful
to be accepted in this way, Ereshkigal offers them any gift they wish. They ask that
Inanna be returned to life, and Ereshkigal obligingly revives her. Inanna returns to the
upper world, transformed and renewed, bringing with her fresh life for the crops and
vegetation. Ereshkigal-Pluto destroys life, but also can create new life as well.

What can we learn from Pluto’s house? Firstly, rather than understanding pain and
crisis as a stigma or pathology, as something bad to be avoided at all costs, we can see
these phases as part of a larger process leading to renewal and rebirth. Secondly, we
learn that we cannot master or transform what we condemn, deny or repress – which is
exactly how we normally deal with anything unpleasant. Instead, the Mourners hold the
key: paying attention to and accepting Ereshkigal-Pluto as part of life allows the healing
magic to work.

Something else is gained from being destroyed, from losing what has been precious,
and from the disintegration of that which has once served as our source of identity and



vitality. Through being stripped of everything, we are reminded of that part of us which
is still there after all else has been taken away. We discover something deep within the
self that sustains us even through the loss of former ego-attachments. This is the gift we
retrieve in the house of Pluto: the knowledge of something in ourselves which is
indestructible. Pluto releases the enduring from the merely transitory – and we are
reborn with a sense of being alive which is unconditional and not contingent on the
external or relative, phenomenal world providing us with certain ‘props’.

Obviously, wherever Pluto sets up his altar in the chart, the affairs of that house are
not to be taken at face value. Complexity and intrigue are the watchwords here. In
Pluto’s domain, we have to search for hidden causes and underlying, unconscious
motivations. The isolated ego is not interested in supervising its own destruction. Pluto
is the henchman of a deeper, core Self which employs this planet to break down the
ego-boundaries and release more of who we really are. As Jung writes, ‘There are
higher things than the ego’s will, and to these one must bow.’

Pluto deals in extremes, and we are capable of evincing the very worst or the very
best of human nature in the area of life in which he is placed. When the omnipotence of
the ego is called into question, we are terrified of being destroyed: accordingly we
attempt to protect ourselves by ruthlessly or treacherously controlling what happens in
Pluto’s house. Not even knowing why, we may be driven to act compulsively and
obsessively. And yet, in that same sphere, by acknowledging and serving a mysterious
force more powerful than ourselves, we can potentially discover and exhibit our
greatest strength, nobility, purpose and dedication. Not only are we significantly
changed by what happens in that area, but it is also where we can act as a catalyst or
trigger for the transformation of others. For some, the very force which moves history
may overtake and work through them in Pluto’s domain.

Scorpio on the cusp or contained within a house is similar in interpretation to Pluto
there. The house with Pluto in it will influence any house where Scorpio is found. For
instance, former President Nixon had Pluto in the 10th house and Scorpio on the cusp of
the 3rd. A secretive, plotting and determined mind (Scorpio on the 3rd) would stop at
nothing to achieve his obsessive need for power and standing in his career (Pluto in the
10th), and eventually brought about his own destruction and subsequent rebirth.

Pluto in the 1st
With Pluto in the 1st, an individual’s personal style, destiny, and way of approaching
life need to include and recognize the nature of this planet. Above all, Pluto is both a
creator and a destroyer, and those with Pluto in the 1st will express either one or both of
these sides. It is better if they recognize their own destructive urges, otherwise they may
unconsciously provoke events, other people, or their own bodies to act as agents of ‘de-
structuring’ for them. In other words, one way or another the underworld realm of
hidden thoughts, feelings and motivations must be reckoned with – they cannot escape
untouched just trying to live on the surface level of life.

Those with Pluto here might employ their destructive urges for any number of
reasons. For instance, if they feel that their progress or evolution is blocked or impeded



by certain structures in their lives (such as a job or a relationship, etc.), then they will
remove these to make room for new possibilities and further growth. If they don’t
acknowledge their frustration and do something positive about it, then they might act in
such a way as to force the other person to break up the relationship or a boss to fire
them from a job they don’t like. As a general rule, it is dishonest and not to our
advantage to displace responsibility for any 1st house planet onto other people or
events.

In some cases, they may employ their destructive powers because there is something
‘out there’ making them feel vulnerable and endangering their sense of safety and
security. Their philosophy in this instance is ‘Get rid of it before it gets rid of me’, and
they have the capacity to deal ruthlessly with life if necessary. There is a part of them
which will promulgate almost anything for their own survival; or they may act like the
scorpion who if cornered will sting itself to death first rather than giving something else
the chance to defeat it. The primitive and instinctive drives of the nature will have to be
‘owned’ and accepted before being transformed or rechannelled. Some may swing to
extremes and actually over-identify with the dark side of life, believing that they are
‘badness incarnate’. In these cases, there is the need to discover that they are not just an
Ereshkigal, but that they have a lighter and more worthy side (Inanna) to them as well.

An interesting example is how Copernicus, the father of modern astronomy, used his
1st house Pluto’s destructive energy. In establishing that the Earth actually revolved
around the Sun rather than vice versa, he utterly destroyed a basic paradigm on which a
whole era’s view of life was based.

As can be expected, those with Pluto in the 1st will periodically orchestrate
sweeping changes in their lifestyles. They might dramatically alter their physical
appearance at some stage – such as shedding five stone or dressing in a radically
different way. They might, usually when Pluto is triggered by transit or progression,
drastically shift their outward or inner focus on life, as if they die and are reborn
another person. For example Richard Alpert (Pluto in Cancer in the 1st) was a Harvard
professor who after experimenting with hallucinogenic drugs went off to India and
changed his name to Baba Ram Dass.

If Pluto is close to the Ascendant, the birth itself might have entailed a crucial life
and death struggle. I have seen a few cases where the birth nearly brought about the
death of the mother. Placed anywhere in the 1st, Pluto also suggests early years marked
by difficulties and traumas, impressing on them that life is a struggle. Trusting the
world will be a problem because their experience early in life has been that it is not
necessarily on their side. Also, if they are so ruthless to survive, might not others be as
well? Walking around anticipating disaster, they feel they must protect and barricade
themselves against destruction and doom. For this reason, they are sometimes loners,
who find it difficult to blend in or co-operate with others. For some, their need for
power stems from this mistrust of life – if they are not in control, then terrible things
might happen. Warding off evil can also be the root of obsessive-compulsive character
patterns.

In Greek mythology, Pluto almost always stayed in the underworld; those few times



he appeared on the surface, he wore a helmet which made him invisible. Likewise,
those with Pluto in the 1st may protect themselves by being secretive and covert. If they
show too much of what is happening inside, this may give others power over them. For
this reason, they often appear mysterious and aloof. Bobby Fischer, born with Pluto in
Leo in the 1st ruling Scorpio on the 5th (games and hobbies), effectively used the
cunning and tactical side of this placement in gaining the title of World Chess
Champion.

When those with Pluto in the 1st do come out and risk opening up, they do it with a
serious intensity. Occasionally, suppressed feelings will erupt, inclining them to act in
extreme ways. If Pluto is near to the Ascendant, their eyes may be keen and penetrating
as if they are seeing deeply into what is happening around them. Some exude a
powerful sexuality. Usually they have tremendous endurance, and can dedicate
themselves one-pointedly to a cause or endeavour. Their will-power is enormous and
they may battle between using this power constructively or destructively. Their lives
may be a story of many ups-and-downs as if they need to experience both the best and
worst of all possibilities.

Pluto in the 2nd
Like Uranus and Neptune in a house, Pluto implores the individual to probe more
deeply into the meaning of that sphere and does not allow life to be lived in an ordinary
or uncomplicated fashion in that area. Issues around the acquisition of money and
possessions, and the quest for security in general, cannot be taken at face value if Pluto
is placed in the 2nd.

With Pluto here, it is necessary to discover the underlying motivations which propel
such strong and passionate feelings about money and security. For some, money is
imbued with the power of a deity, which determines if they live or die. Money and
power may be accrued as a way of controlling others, or as a safety gauge for those who
feel that the world is out to destroy them. Material success may be sought as a way of
enhancing their sexual attractiveness. Some may see amassing possessions as a way of
extending their territory of influence and thereby regaining a sense of their lost infantile
omnipotence. Or if they have been put down and belittled as children, then acquiring
great wealth and status may be the way of proving their worth to the world.

Pluto sets up his altar of destruction in whatever house he occupies. Consequently,
those with this placement may harbour a fear that something lurks in the shadows which
threatens to wipe out their resources and possessions. They might hoard money in an
attempt to counter-effect this danger. Pluto brings extremes, and they might experience
both ends of the scale of poverty and wealth. If they have become too centred or
identified with their bank accounts, cars or big homes, Pluto may destroy these external
forms of self-definition, stripping away outer attachments or trappings so that they can
discover who they are from inside themselves. They may even unconsciously provoke
such a catastrophe so that an inner and more permanent sense of worth and security can
be found.

The house position of Pluto shows where we might make a significant contribution



to society. In the 2nd, the person may be in possession of certain skills and abilities
which could influence and shape the world in some way. The innate resources and
values to be developed are those of unusually deep perception, a powerful conviction,
and an ability to be decisive in times of crises. Pluto can cut out and eliminate what is
not essential, and thereby purify and streamline what it touches. Those with Pluto in the
2nd can take something which appears to be of little value and transform it into an
object of worth.

Their incomes and sources of self-worth could be obtained through professions
associated with Pluto: research work, the psychological, parapsychological and medical
fields, mining and underground work, detective and undercover activities, antiques and
refurbishing, etc.

Pluto in the 3rd
Like Uranus or Neptune in this house, Pluto in the 3rd aims to transcend the ordinary
limits of the mind or intellect. Those with this placement often have a deep, penetrating
and incisive mind able to ‘laser through’ to the heart of any matter. There could be an
interest in extra-sensory perception or a desire to expose and freely talk about subjects
which others find taboo (such as sex and death). Their minds are well-suited to any
form of research or depth studies. Some might seek knowledge for the power and
mastery it gives over others and the environment. Occasionally, they give birth to ideas
which could have a transforming effect on society. The Protestant Reformationist
Martin Luther is reputed to have been born with Pluto in Libra in the 3rd. Mary Baker
Eddy, the founder of the Christian Science Church, also had Pluto in this house.

They may have a certain power with words. William Butler Yeats, the Irish Nobel
Prize-winning poet who had a deep mystical slant on life, was born with Pluto in the
3rd ruling Scorpio on the 9th house of philosophy. (The poet Robert Browning, the
author of so many famous and immortal lines, also has enduring Pluto in the 3rd.)
However, Pluto’s strength can be used treacherously as well, and those with this
placement are often known for their cutting tongues and acute sensitivity to where
another person’s weakness lies. Negative moods could creep up and they can be
overwhelmed by obsessive thoughts, as if their own minds betray them. Their thoughts
can turn very destructive, and some will be afraid to speak because of a fear of what
might come out. Others hide what is going on inside them in case exposing themselves
would render them too vulnerable.

The 3rd house covers the early environment and the growing-up years. As children,
we all have difficulty distinguishing between having wished for something and the
belief that we have actually done the deed. For instance, if a little boy is angry at his
sister for getting more attention than him, he may entertain a passing thought that he
wishes she were dead. Let’s say that the next day his sister falls out of a tree and breaks
her leg. The boy in question might equate the negative wish he had with the accident
and therefore believe that his bad thoughts caused it to happen. Taking whole or part
blame for it, he will walk around guilty and afraid of being found out and punished for
his evil doings. As we grow older we realize we are not so omnipotent, but those with



Pluto in the 3rd may still harbour fears and guilt about the power of their thoughts and
the bad things they made or make happen around them. Secret sins such as these can
torment a child or adolescent with Pluto in the 3rd, and he or she may be terrified to tell
anyone else about it. And where there is shame and guilt, anger and rage are not far
away. Obviously, parents of children with Pluto in the 3rd should try to create an
environment in which the child feels safe to talk about what is going on in his or her
mind, rather than allowing thoughts and feelings to fester underneath too long.

The early environment may have been experienced by those with this placement as
threatening or non-life-supporting and could leave the impression that they have to
continually guard themselves against others. They will not easily forget a wrong-doing
and may hold on to resentment for a very long time. The relationship with siblings is
usually complex and ridden with undercurrents of sexuality, competition and intrigue.
This placement often indicates difficulties with neighbours and problems with early
schooling. For some, being sent away to boarding school is a major upheaval and felt as
a kind of banishment or punishment for some imagined transgression.

Even short journeys can be harassing. They may arrive at a friend’s for a quiet
weekend in the country to discover they have stepped into the plot of an Agatha
Christie thriller.

Those with Pluto in the 3rd are powerful on the mental plane and if they hold a
certain attitude towards another person, they can ‘box’ the person in to such a degree
that he or she inevitably acts out the projection. Therefore if they want someone’s
behaviour to change, they might try altering the context in which they are viewing that
person. It is a basic fact of life that attention carries energy.

Pluto in the 4th (and Scorpio on the IC)
Complexes, traumas and unresolved issues from early childhood often seethe below the
level of conscious awareness if Pluto is in the 4th house. They may try to cut off their
deeper feelings altogether, exerting rigid control over themselves as away of defending
themselves against these raw emotions. And yet there is always the sense of something
dangerous lurking underneath which could overwhelm them in the end. For some, their
whole life is built around suppressing what’s down there, and in this respect they are
dominated by those very things they are trying to keep at bay. Finding the self is like
peeling an onion – layer upon layer has to be removed to reach the core. More than any
other placement, this is the deep-sea diver who must plunge into the depths of the
personal unconscious, bringing hidden complexes to light so that they can be examined,
worked on and hopefully transmuted.

These complexes probably stem from their experiences in the early home
environment (the family of origin) and may resurface later on in their private and
domestic lives. Since the home sphere is where they feel most vulnerable, they may
attempt to manipulate and control those around them so that nobody slips up and
detonates their inner time-bomb. Obviously, this does not lend itself to the most relaxed
of home atmospheres, in which there are probably many unwritten rules about what is
or isn’t allowed to be said or done. Wherever Pluto is in the chart is where we fear our



own destruction. In the 4th, the bogeyman lurks under the bed, in the wardrobe, or
stares at them from across the breakfast table. It is like living by the side of Mount
Vesuvius.

Those with Pluto in the 4th might experience major reorientations in their lives
through upheavals in the domestic sphere or the collapse of the family structure
altogether. Although this is hardly likely to be easy, they have the capacity to rise out of
the rubble reborn, hopefully wiser and with greater self-understanding. On the positive
side, Pluto in the 4th is a good indication of strong regenerative powers and the ability
to rebuild the self after any kind of breakdown. The survival instinct runs deep and
resources they didn’t know they had come to the fore at the time of crisis.

If we take the 4th house to represent the father, he could have been experienced as
exceptionally powerful, dark or threatening. Children with this placement may be
keenly aware of the father’s passion, sexuality, frustrations and pent-up rage.
Sometimes it is the death, disappearance or psychological distance of the father which
affects them strongly. More positively, he could represent someone with great courage,
fortitude and creative potency.

The 4th house describes how we end things, and with Pluto or Scorpio there, endings
are often final and irrevocable. There may be the need to dramatically finish certain
phases in the life, or cut themselves off from people or places to which they have
previously been tied. The Duke of Windsor, who abdicated the crown and, in that sense,
his rightful inheritance, was born with Pluto conjunct Neptune in Gemini in the 4th.

Those with Pluto in the 4th may have a love and reverence of nature, an almost
primeval tie with the earth and its mysteries. Attempting to fathom the secrets of nature,
there may be an interest in oceanography and deep-sea diving, archaeology, psychology
or metaphysics.

Some will be able to transmute their inner struggles and emotional churnings into
creative expression. For instance, according to the time given by his father, Mozart was
born with Pluto in the 4th. He composed some of his best works in periods of
depression and illness. Through psychological exploration, deep inner reflection and
meditation, and the nurturance of seeds of self-knowledge, those with this placement
may mature into extremely wise and radiant sources of strength, inspiration and
guidance for others. The Greek god Pluto was in charge of buried treasure, and those
with this planet in the 4th just need to dig for it.

Scorpio on the IC or contained within the 4th house is similar in interpretation to
Pluto there.

Pluto in the 5th
The key to working with Pluto in the 5th is the development of a healthy sense of one’s
own power and worth. Everyone has the need to feel important and special in some area
of life, but with Pluto in Leo’s natural domain, this could become an obsession.
Excessive pride and an inflated self-opinion could bring many problems to those with
this placement. However, too weak an ego, or too little a sense of their importance,
value and effectiveness can also be the source of difficulties. In either case, they may



resort to extreme gestures to prove their potency. Barbra Streisand, the singer-actress-
writer-director whose drive, energy and apparent abrasiveness rub many people up the
wrong way, was born with Pluto in Leo in the 5th.

As children, we feel that we are more likely to be protected by our parents if they
find us enchanting and captivating. Therefore being somebody special is linked in our
minds with warding off doom and disaster. For those with Pluto in the 5th, the need for
love, approval and power may still be mixed up with the survival instinct. Barbra
Streisand’s father died when she was very young, and perhaps she felt that she was not
special enough to keep him. Later, she felt neglected by her mother and new stepfather,
which would have added more fuel to the fire already raging in her 5th house.
Obviously, as in her case, this dynamic may spur some people on to high achievements.
For others, it could mean bitter disappointment at the lack of their recognition and
worth and angry resentment towards those who appear more successful. However,
failing to win the status they seek may provide the impetus for further self-evaluation
and self-knowledge.

For children with Pluto in the 5th, the sandbox could be the place where they scale
new heights, or the scene for traumatic experiences. It just can’t be any old castle, but
must somehow express from the depths of their feelings who they really are, complete
with moat and secret chambers. Mars threw sand in the face of his friend who did a
better castle; Pluto might go a step further – accidentally on purpose kicking over the
rival’s castle, provoking a fight and breaking the friendship. It may be days or weeks
later before Pluto returns to the sandbox at all. (It’s reputed that when Ms Streisand’s
film Yentl didn’t receive the recognition she felt it deserved from the Academy of
Motion Pictures, she boycotted the ceremonies that year altogether.)

Later in life, creative self-expression may still entail working through traumas,
blocks and difficulties. However, the problems encountered serve to bring unconscious
patterns and unfinished issues from early life to the surface where there is more chance
of resolving them. Some with this placement will be able to give expression to creative
works of great power which can awaken and transform others. Hermann Hesse, born
with Pluto in the 5th ruling Scorpio on the cusp of the 11th, comes to mind. He is also
reported to have struggled with bouts of depression and alcoholism. Nietzsche had
Pluto in Aries in the 5th ruling Scorpio on the cusp of the 12th and, according to
Rodden (Astro-Data II: The American Book of Charts), spent ten lonely years writing
his major works. After completing these books, he died a year later, alone and insane.

For both men and women, this position of Pluto suggests that bringing children into
the world could have a life-changing effect. Although this is generally the case for
anyone who has children, the issues of parenting are somehow more far-reaching with
Pluto in this house. For many men with this placement, becoming a father for the first
time heralds a traumatic awakening to the fact that they are no longer the ‘eternal
youth’ themselves. For a woman, it could indicate difficulty with child-bearing and she
is wise to look after herself with extra care during the pregnancy. Issues around abortion
and miscarriages are not uncommon with Pluto in the 5th. Even when an interrupted
pregnancy cannot be helped, there is still the need to grieve and mourn for what is lost.



As with Neptune in the 5th, the anguish incurred in such circumstances is more
productively utilized if some meaning or purpose can be attached to the experience.

Parents with this placement may meet their own dark and subterranean sides through
the behaviour of their children. The parent with Pluto in the 5th may over-control or try
to dominate a child not purely out of a desire to love and protect, but because the parent
is frightened that the child, if left to its own devices, might do something which is
untoward or personally threatening. If this is the case, the children may have to break
radically with the parent in order to establish more freely their own identities. In the
long run, it is far better that the parent examine his or her own fears and complexes and
what has given rise to them, rather than attempt to control life as a way of avoiding
confronting these. Having said all this, I have seen many instances of Pluto in the 5th
where the parent-child relationship is handled with strength and dignity.

With Pluto in the 5th, romantic pursuits may become entangled with the power drive
and some degree of sexual compulsiveness. Those with this placement may fear the
intensity of their sexual drive and try to inhibit it altogether or find ways to transmute
libidinal expression into channels which they deem more acceptable. Others may derive
a sense of potency through sexual conquest and attract love affairs which involve power
conflicts, dramas and intrigues. Carried to extremes, they could use other people too
much to prove their own worth – a form of psychological rape. True mutuality, sharing
and respect for another person’s integrity are the lessons to be learned if Pluto or
Scorpio is in the 5th.

Pluto in the 6th
The 6th house is the meeting point of body and psyche, the point of connection between
what we are inside and the forms with which we surround ourselves. Those with Pluto
in the 6th can explore this connection in great depth.

When an underworld deity like Pluto sets up his altar in the 6th house of health, then
physical illness cannot be taken at face value. In mythology, Pluto rarely came above
ground, but in one instance it was to seek healing for a wound. In sickness, accumulated
poisons and toxins come to the surface which need to be eliminated in order for the
body to function healthily again. The root causes of these problems, not just the
outward symptoms, need to be treated if Pluto is in the 6th, or else the trouble may just
recur at another time.

In short, those with Pluto in the 6th should explore the possibility that illness is an
indication of problems elsewhere in the lives than just the body. It is a well-known fact
that psychological issues play a part in aggravating a disease. Noxious agents are
always present in the system, but whether we develop an illness depends on our ability
to resist these. Negative thoughts and feelings, conscious or unconscious, take their toll
on the body by weakening the system’s natural defences, making us more susceptible to
what we can normally combat. People with Pluto in the 6th may complain that their
bodies have betrayed them when they fall ill, when in actual fact the body has only
revealed that there is something awry in their mental and emotional states. The good
news is – as the authors of Getting Well Again point out – that if people can make



themselves psychosomatically ill, they can also become ‘psychosomatically healthy’.1
By examining their beliefs and feelings, those with Pluto in the 6th can move in the
direction of altering not just their health but their whole lives. The knowledge available
to these people is the direct comprehension that the mind, body and emotions function
as an integrated system.

Functioning as a unified whole means that every little thing in life has significance in
relation to everything else. For those with Pluto in the 6th then, simple, everyday
routines in life can take on great importance. Just choosing what clothes to wear in the
morning or keeping the house clean can be fraught with great anxiety if Pluto is poorly
aspected. They may contrive compulsive rituals in executing these tasks as if by doing
them in this way they are warding off evil and destruction.

On the positive side, they have the capacity to work in a dedicated and undistracted
fashion with their total will behind a job. However, they can also take the need to be
conscientious, responsible, practical and productive, and turn these into obsessions as if
their very survival depended on these qualities. The desire to do a job right is felt with
intensity, conviction and passion. Obviously, this zeal can make them difficult to work
alongside with. They may be unduly irritable and critical of others who do not share
their style and approach. Relationships with co-workers may be marred by
uncomfortable undercurrents, sexual innuendoes, betrayals, treachery and intrigues.
Power struggles could develop and they may resent and feel threatened by anyone in
authority, unconsciously wishing to dethrone those in a higher position. If those with
Pluto in the 6th are in the position of authority, the whole question of how they dispense
power over subordinates comes sharply into focus.

Often there is the desire to improve on already existing methods of work.
Compulsively searching for flaws, sweeping changes can be made in the name of
increased efficiency. Their work must be deeply engaging and consuming, otherwise
they will lose interest, and possibly ‘set up’ situations which force them to leave the job
for another. Some may become ill to free themselves from work they abhor. Others may
lose jobs because of conditions beyond their control – such as economic recession and
redundancy. While the loss of employment can have a serious effect on their
psychological well-being, examining the emotions and feelings which are brought to the
surface by such contingencies could lead to greater self-knowledge and further growth.

Employment may be in a field which is ‘Plutonian’ by nature: undercover or
detective work, mining, careers in psychology, medicine or psychiatry, or work
involving nuclear energy. Taking one meaning of Pluto literally, some could work in
junkyards, cemeteries or funeral parlours. Quite a few people I have seen with Pluto in
the 6th are involved in various forms of neo-Reichian body-work.

In some cases, an accident or illness may produce irrevocable damage. The French
artist, Henri Toulouse-Lautrec, who was deformed as a result of a riding accident, was
born with Pluto in Taurus in the 6th. But even if we are born with severe limiting
restrictions, we are still responsible for the attitude we adopt to the handicap: we can
live a life of bitter regret or find ways to give meaning to the life despite or maybe even
because of it.



Pluto in the 7th
The Greek sovereign of the underworld was only seen to leave his kingdom for the
upper world twice: once to heal a wound inflicted on him by Hercules, and once to
abduct Persephone into his realm. Similarly, the workings of Pluto can be observed
most clearly in illness and in the sphere of close relationships.

With Pluto in the 7th, it is in the area of partnerships that Pluto is encountered.
Rather than viewing marriage or close union as merely a ‘happily ever after’ affair, it is
wiser for those with this placement to understand relationships as catalysts or agents for
personal transformation, growth and change.

Liz Greene says of Pluto in this house that ‘the entry into the underworld comes
through somebody else.’ In other words, relationships will plunge them into deep
emotional complexes which have lurked in the recesses of the psyche from as far back
as early childhood (or even further, if one believes in karma and reincarnation).
Through issues connected to partnership, parts of the nature which have been buried,
repressed or kept under control by the ego will erupt messily into the everyday life.
After the blast, there is the task of putting themselves back together again, hopefully
with greater awareness and understanding of their own complexities.

If they are not wholly in touch with their own darker or undifferentiated sides, then
they may project these qualities onto the partner. If they have not acknowledged their
potential for ruthlessness, treachery, betrayal, jealousy, envy and possessiveness, they
seem to attract or constellate such traits in other people. Again, the nature of life is
towards wholeness: if we are not living that wholeness, then the outside brings it to us.

Wherever Pluto falls in the chart is where the god of death and destruction can be
found. Some with this placement sense their own proclivities for destructiveness in the
area of relationships and consequently live in fear that others might be capable of the
same kind of behaviour. Or they may totally disown their own destructive energy by
just attributing it to the other person. Because of a nagging apprehension that sooner or
later the other person is going to disrupt the relationship, they have difficulty trusting
the partner or feeling safe in a union. Attempting to avert such a catastrophe, they may
try to dominate, possess and control the partner. Unfortunately, such behaviour often
serves to drive the other person away, thereby bringing about the situation which they
most dreaded. As in the case with Pluto in any house, the deity which brings the illness
is also the one who brings the cure. To clean up the mess that our own unconscious
complexes land us in, Pluto hands us a shovel and says ‘Start digging’. In the process
we may even unearth some very good reasons why it all had to happen that way.

I have seen many instances where those with Pluto in the 7th wanted to end a
relationship but were afraid to do it for various reasons. Invariably, they somehow
provoked the other person to do it for them.

Some may meet Pluto in the 7th through the death of a partner. If the partnership was
a close, good one, then picking up the pieces after such a misfortune is a slow, gradual
process with many phases. But wherever Pluto is, the capacity to rise again, like the
Phoenix out of the ashes, is also present; although Pluto may teach them to be more
careful next time about deriving their identities wholly from something external to the



self. Even if the relationship was fraught with fights and bitterness, the loss of a partner
through death can still be devastating – especially if the person feels partially
responsible for what has happened, or the partner died before pressing interpersonal
issues could be resolved. It will be important for the remaining partner to do what he or
she can to work through these feelings; otherwise any later relationship may be tainted
by them. Pluto’s house is easily haunted.

Pluto is a planet of extremes and in this sense it is oddly placed in the house which is
concerned with balance, sharing and learning co-operation. The issue of who has the
power in the relationship is brought sharply into focus. Some will give all their power
over to the other person, as if they want to be swallowed up by the relationship. Others
will not feel safe unless they are the ones in charge. In either case, the balance of power
is unevenly shared and lessons of true mutuality are still to be learned. Sooner or later
one or the other of the partners may feel the need to break free in order to grow beyond
the constrictions of such an arrangement.

In many cases I have seen, those with Pluto in the 7th actually have difficulty
eliminating or letting go of a relationship. For some, this evinces a kind of loyalty
which is determined to keep working at it. For others, their identity may be so tied up in
the partnership that to lose it would be like death. In mythology, Pluto, compared to the
other gods, was a relatively constant husband to Persephone, and was only unfaithful
twice. In the first instance, he developed a mad passion for the nymph Minthe, but in
his wild pursuit of her, he accidentally crushed her underfoot. (It is possible that those
with Pluto in the 7th can actually destroy a relationship because of their own intensity
about it.) In the second case, he abducted one of the daughters of Oceanus into his
kingdom, where she lived until she died a natural death.

Pluto may require the complete breakdown and elimination of an existing
relationship to allow for the continuing individuation of each party. On the other hand,
however, Pluto also suggests that a relationship can endure a number of mini-deaths and
rebirths, coming up stronger each time, and lasting many, many years.

Those with Pluto in the 7th have the ability to help others through painful times of
crises and transition. Some may have a profound influence on society in general. Two
examples illustrate the social face of Pluto in the 7th. The Fascist Italian dictator,
Mussolini, had Pluto here ruling the 12th house of collective movements. By contrast,
Betty Friedan, the indefatigable women’s liberation leader, has Pluto in the 7th ruling
Scorpio on both the 11th and 12th house cusps. This house placement of Pluto is also
useful in the charts of lawyers, healers, counsellors and psychologists.

Pluto in the 8th
In a poem entitled ‘In Tenebris’, Thomas Hardy wrote, ‘If a way to the Better there be,
it exacts a full look at the Worst.’ He might have been thinking of Pluto in the 8th when
he came up with these lines.

According to Freud, we are born with certain drives which push at us from within.
But due to internal or external pressures, we become anxious about the expression of
these impulses and set up defence mechanisms to restrict them. Two of these in



particular – drives of sex and aggression – give us a great deal of trouble. If they are
denied altogether, they often erupt explosively in compulsive, uncontrollable behaviour.
However, if we allow them free rein, there is the danger that they will control us rather
than the other way around. The challenge for those with Pluto in the 8th is to explore
and accept these drives and yet find ways to channel them purposefully and
productively in the sphere of interpersonal relationships.

Sex and aggression are normally associated with the planet Mars. They appear to be
endogenous, instinctive impulses which are a necessary part of our biological heritage.
The value of sex is obvious in reproduction, and aggression or power is necessary for
growth and mastery of life. Sexual arousal is, in many ways, akin to the physiology of
anger. In fact, Kinsey reported fourteen physiological changes which are common to
both sexual arousal and anger.2 Even from our own experience we may know how often
love turns to anger, or what starts out as an argument finishes up as an orgasm. But
when we start talking about either repressing these drives or mastering them, we leave
the field of Mars and enter the domain of Pluto.

Some people with Pluto in the 8th successfully master and skilfully guide their
libidinal energy into impressive achievements. Winston Churchill, Leonardo da Vinci,
Galileo and Bismarck – all men of exceptional power and drive – were born with Pluto
in this house. This placement also denotes tremendous strength and resources in crises
as well as the stamina to lead other people through difficult times. Besides reorienting
their own use of power on the physical, mental, social, emotional or spiritual levels,
they possess the ability to drastically alter the lives of those they come in contact with.

However, looking through Astro-Data II: The American Book of Charts, three other
examples of Pluto in this house stand out. One is John Gacy, with Pluto in the 8th ruling
Scorpio on the 12th and 1st. According to Rodden, he was considered an ‘upstanding’
and salient member of the community until he was indicted for the ‘sadistic sexual
assault and murder of thirty-two young men and boys’ (buried, aptly for this placement,
in his cellar). Albert Dyer was the friendly man patrolling the school crossing who one
day abducted, raped and strangled three little girls – he had Pluto in Gemini in the 8th
ruling a Scorpio Ascendant. Arthur Bremer, who gunned down Senator George
Wallace, also had Pluto in this house. Rodden writes that ‘his diary stresses his sexual
frustration and preoccupation.’

When the natural energies of sex and aggression are obstructed in their development
and expression, and left to fester in the underworld, they turn ugly and deadly. Unless
examined and positively channelled, they accumulate power and burst into
consciousness, blasting through all ego-controls. Before the person knows it, all hell
breaks loose.

Obviously, not all people with Pluto in the 8th are going to fall into the category of a
Churchill or a child molester. And yet one thing is certain: a tremendous reserve of
energy, what some would call ‘coiled-up serpent power’, lies in waiting.

The 8th house describes what passes between people, and with Pluto there, the token
of exchange is intensity. Partnerships may involve power struggles, physical or
emotional violence, or the breaking of taboos. Some have a propensity for tragic,



tortured or transformative relationships in the tradition of Romeo and Juliet, or Tristan
and Isolde. Behind the symbolism of the sexual act is a craving for self-transcendence
or power. Fearing the excessiveness or the chaos of their powerful emotional drives,
they may attempt to avoid close contacts altogether. Pluto in the 8th also sometimes
describes conflict, treachery and intrigue around other people’s money. Complications
and long-drawn-out problems can arise over inheritances, taxes, business deals and
divorce settlements, especially if Pluto is adversely aspected. Their value system in
general may differ significantly from a partner’s; or what the partner believes in may
dramatically affect and change them. They may want to challenge and tear down what
another person holds in esteem.

Besides having to deal with their sexual and aggressive drives, they will most likely
need to grapple with issues around death. Freud felt that we all harbour a death-wish
(Thanatos) and yearn to return to the tension-free state that we experienced before birth.
This longing to break through limited boundaries, to tear the self down in order to
dissolve into non-being, may be strong for those with Pluto in the 8th. Some may flirt
with death by putting themselves in dangerous or highly risky situations, or by
unconsciously playing out self-destructive tendencies. Others may be fascinated by the
whole topic and research extensively into life after death, reincarnation and related
metaphysical concepts.

I have met a number of people with this placement who have had close brushes with
death, and after a narrow escape came back to life and reassessed all their priorities.
Others may have more than their fair share of experience with the deaths of those close
to them. And yet, I have also encountered others with this placement who are absolutely
terrified and anxious about their own deaths. They may need to be reminded that death
is an inextricable part of life – to deny death is also to deny life. If we fully
acknowledge that we will one day die, then it can plunge us into living more
authentically and appreciating each passing moment as fully as possible. St Augustine
once wrote, ‘It is only in the face of death that man’s self is born.’3 Death jolts us into
life.

If they are not afraid of it, these people are closely attuned to energies at work on the
deeper levels of life and will hear rumblings in the atmosphere far sooner than others.
The sensory apparatus is something like those of animals who know beforehand when
an earthquake is about to come. There is a desire to understand and even gain mastery
over the secrets of nature and what some might term ‘occult powers’. Sometimes
without consciously being aware of it, these people work ‘magic’, influencing situations
and other people through the manipulation of these subtle forces. Inexorably drawn to
penetrate the realm of forbidden knowledge, they dare to explore levels of existence
that others are unaware of or fear to approach.

Pluto in the 9th
I have observed that, in general, people approach the house in which Pluto is placed in
two very broad but different ways. Some plunge into the affairs of the house, grappling
with the deeper issues and implications of that realm, and inevitably are changed and



transformed through what they experience there. Others, trying to preserve their already
existing sense of self and fearing what this planet might do to them, close the door and
try to shut Pluto out of the house altogether. They forget that he has an uncanny ability
to break locks.

This same dynamic applies to Pluto in the 9th. On one level, the challenge for those
with this placement is to join Pluto in a quest for a deeper awareness of the ultimate
concerns of life. With Pluto here, religious and philosophical issues are often
approached with a seriousness and reverence, as if their survival depended on coming to
grips with the nature of God or existence. The spiritual drive can be obsessive and
fanatical: they are often voracious to find answers and to discover the basic, irrefutable
laws and patterns which govern life. In search of the truth, they reach for the bright
heavens or plumb the dark undercurrents and depths of the psyche. And what they are
really looking for is the ground under their own feet. How can life be faced unless there
is something to stand on? Even if the ground is slippery and treacherous, it is still better
than no ground at all.

Even if it should turn out that life has no givens, and there is no pre-ordained design
or structure to existence, those with Pluto in the 9th still desperately need to find or
create meaning. But Pluto is a destroyer as well, and sooner or later their philosophies
may be subjected to some sort of purgatory, or be torn down and constructed anew. In
this sense, they are sometimes betrayed or let down by their cherished religion or
beliefs. The collapse of a belief system may be an almost overwhelming experience,
throwing them into deep despair and depression, until they are reborn again through
another one.

Their dogmatism and self-righteousness could stem from the fear that if another
person’s philosophy contradicts their own, then what they believe in may have to be
questioned. Rather than endangering the sanctity of what they worship and adore, they
may try to control what everyone else believes in or convert all others to their side. The
Spanish dictator Francisco Franco was born with Pluto in the 9th ruling Scorpio on the
cusp of the 3rd.

The image of God is often coloured by what planet is in the 9th. For those with Pluto
here, God may not be all justice, beauty and light. Probably omnipotent, He may have a
dark side to His nature and occasionally decide He doesn’t like them. He could delight
in leading them to the edge of a precipice, dangling them there, or destroying them
altogether no matter how ‘good’ they were. It is no wonder many of the people I have
met with Pluto in the 9th have difficulty conceiving of a rosy future. As dire as this may
sound, some real benefits arise out of their dilemmas. Firstly, they are forced to take a
stand on suffering and find some meaning through it, even if it is a fate they can do
nothing about. Secondly, they will try to derive as much as they can from every
experience, engaging themselves in each and every moment far more completely than
others who have a less harrowing concept of God.

I said earlier that some may not welcome Pluto in the house at all, although he
invariably finds a way of sneaking in. Along these lines, I have met people with this
placement who, afraid or thwarted by the search for truth, turn nihilistic. Diametrically



opposite to those who use Pluto’s constructive probing, these people are aimless and
apathetic, and don’t see the value in anything. Why bother if it all ends in death
anyway? But this is exactly why they should bother. Death is probably the most
important event in life, and we can’t die well unless we have lived well. Cicero said ‘To
philosophize is to prepare for death.’4 Unlike those with Pluto in the 8th, these people
are not necessarily suffering from the repression or malfunctioning of sexual or
aggressive instincts, but from the repression or frustration of an equally important and
particularly human drive – the will to find meaning in life.

While the 8th house represents drives which push us from within, the 9th represents
strivings or goals which pull us from without. For those with Pluto in this house, there
is a strong pull to follow Pluto’s lead, and yet much anxiety and trepidation about what
they might encounter in the process. This dynamic applies to the pursuit of higher
education and long journeys as well.

Experiences which evoke profound transformations can occur through higher
education. Pluto is met within the halls of academia, either in the guise of an important
professor who profoundly arouses them, or through conflicts and challenges which any
particular course or educational system presents. In certain cases, they may drastically
alter their major focus of study at some point during the education. A few people with
Pluto in the 9th might make discoveries which require the rewriting of history, the
revising of any discipline, and the elimination of that which is old and false in some
system of thought. The zoologist Thomas Huxley, who lectured in natural history and
profoundly affected the scientific thinking of his time, was born with Pluto in Aries
here.

Long journeys represent another area in which a 9th house Pluto is activated. They
can be transformed through travelling or through encountering and assimilating the
knowledge and traditions of cultures other than their own. One famous example of this
is the artist Paul Gauguin, with Pluto in Aries in the 9th ruling Scorpio on the 4th. He
left his wife and children behind (Scorpio on the 4th) and emigrated to Tahiti, where he
produced his most famous works and may have contracted syphilis; he later died of this
disease in the Marquesas islands. There is a possibility that some people with Pluto in
the 9th may project the unacceptable parts of their own psyches onto another race,
religion or culture – persecuting and blaming something outside themselves for what is
dark or evil in the world.

The relationship with in-laws might also be the sphere where Pluto is felt. For
instance, if in difficult aspect to the Moon, the mother-in-law or sister-in-law might be
seen as threatening or manipulative. The death of an in-law may have a profound effect
on the life.

Pluto in the 10th (and Scorpio on the MC)
If we take the 10th house to represent the mother, then those with Pluto here may see
her as dark, threatening and possessing the ability to destroy them. She can be
experienced as a witch, or someone who is primeval, ruthless and manipulative. They
may sense a seething anger and pent-up frustration or sexuality emanating from her.



They feel as if she is always there, somehow watching them, even if she is not
physically present. In short, she is felt to be dangerous and untrustworthy. However, in
reality, she may not be this sort of person at all, but the child with Pluto here, in certain
cases, may experience her predominantly in this way. Or sometimes the early death or
loss of the mother is the root of later problems in life.

As covered in the general discussion of the 10th house, our early experiences of the
mother (our first container) will contribute to the way in which we relate to the larger
container of society. If the image associated with a negative Plutonic mother is
projected onto the world, then these people will fear that the world is a dangerous place
intent on destroying them. Some with this placement may react to this by withdrawing
from society altogether and having as little to do with the world as possible. Others may
compensate for their dread of being devoured with an obsessional need for power and
control over others. Attempting to regain a lost sense of infantile omnipotence, they
strive to extend their territory of influence to include as much of the world as they can.
If they are in control, if they are the ones in authority, then they feel safe. Their need for
power can be so consuming that any means will justify achieving those ends, as in the
case of President Nixon with Pluto in the 10th. Also, there is a distrust of anyone who
has authority over them, a desire to dethrone or destroy those in charge before it’s too
late. For all these reasons, those with Pluto in the 10th need to re-evaluate and come to
a deeper understanding of their underlying psychological motives for ambition, power
or worldly success.

Of course, the above description is a one-sided explanation of Pluto projected in a
negative light. It is possible that the mother may carry a positive Pluto association. She
could be viewed as the great bestower of life, and experienced as an exceptionally
capable source of comfort and support through all the contingencies of daily life. Some
people I know with this placement have watched the mother struggle successfully with
a personal crisis or a severe life trauma, and were most impressed with her ability to
manage hard times and come out the other side renewed and regenerated. She then
became a positive prototype for later challenging experiences with which they had to
contend. In this way, as adults with Pluto in the 10th they model qualities of strength,
will and endurance to other people.

Pluto’s placement in the chart is where we periodically tear down, destroy or alter
existing circumstances in order to create new ones. It is where we may be reduced to
nothing in order to rise again. Not only did Nixon have it here, but his chief of staff, H.
R. Haldeman, was born with Pluto in the 10th ruling the 3rd. He was convicted of
conspiracy and spent a year and a half in jail where he wrote a book called The Ends of
Power. In some cases, Pluto here may indicate the loss or leaving behind of an
established career and the necessity to embark on a new vocation of an altogether
different nature.

Those with Pluto in the 10th ultimately require a career which is deeply engaging,
meaningful, and exciting. Either the work is of a ‘Plutonian’ nature or they approach the
whole area of work with the kind of intensity and complexity associated with this
planet. Some may be responsible for reforming existing institutions of society which are



outworn or outdated. Other fields related to Pluto are those of medicine, psychology,
and occult and psychic work (Uri Geller, the world-famous spoon-bender, has Pluto
here), investigative science and journalism, politics, mining, atomic research, etc. I have
done charts for two people with Pluto in the 10th who were in jobs in which they were
not allowed to reveal the exact nature of their work. (One of these had Scorpio on the
cusp of the 3rd and spoke fluent Russian.) Some may engage in careers which reflect
society’s shadowy side – such as prostitution, crime or underworld involvement.

Occasionally, I come across people with Pluto in the 10th who tell me that they have
no ambition. After talking with them for a while, it becomes clear that they still see
themselves as ‘small’ compared to the big, powerful world (mother) out there. Usually,
on some level, they are frustrated by the lack of influence they wield, or the
unchallenging job they are already in. In certain cases, it strikes me that some people
with Pluto in the 10th may not find their true vocation until they are more capable of
using their power wisely and for the good of the larger whole, rather than for purely
personal ends.

Scorpio on the Midheaven or contained within the 10th house is similar to Pluto
there.

Pluto in the 11th
The philosopher and historian Will Durant wrote, ‘The meaning of life lies in the
chance it gives us to produce, or contribute to something greater than ourselves.’ For
many people, the family serves this purpose. But for others it could be a group that
elicits a person’s potential for nobility and gives him ‘a cause to work for that shall not
be shattered by his death’.5 On one level, these ideas encapsulate the highest purpose of
an 11th house Pluto: to be able to immerse themselves in something greater than they
are which will live forever.

Groups are meant to break down boundaries and change those with Pluto in the 11th.
For this reason, some people with this placement have great problems feeling
comfortable within the group situation. The destructive energy of Pluto might be
projected onto the group and they feel it is trying to destroy them. Deep emotional
complexes are brought to the surface through group situations, and therefore it is the
area of life through which important psychological transformations could occur. Even
though it might be a frightening experience for these people, they could benefit from
some sort of group therapy situation, where the undercurrents activated by the group
can be openly discussed. Sometimes they end up playing the scapegoat or ‘group
shadow’ figure, acting out what others in the group have repressed or denied.

Those with Pluto in the 11th could be drawn to groups interested in radical reform of
society’s existing structures and institutions. Some may be more interested in groups
which focus on psychological growth, like est. Jerry Rubin, the American political
activist of the sixties, was born with Pluto in Cancer in the 11th. Later, as is often the
case with Pluto in the 11th house of goals and objectives, he changed his direction and
joined groups of a more philosophical and psychological orientation. Jean Houston, a
leading humanistic psychologist, runs groups on how to be a more fully realized and



‘extended’ human being – she has Pluto in the 11th as well. I have noticed that a
number of musicians and conductors have this placement of Pluto – the band or the
orchestra being the group which is essential to their work and expression. In certain
cases, it is possible that someone with Pluto here might join a group as a 5th columnist,
for the purpose of undermining or infiltrating it. Motives are not always that cut and
dried where Pluto is concerned.

While zeal for a just cause is always a positive thing, a difficultly aspected Pluto in
the 11th could give rise to what some psychologists call ‘crusaderism’. These people
are demonstrators in search of an issue, compulsively embracing one cause after
another. The motives for such hard-core activism might be examined to see if it is not
masking some deep fear about the purposelessness of their lives.

Pluto in the 11th also reveals itself through friendships. On a positive note, this could
mean very deep and profound friendships which endure over many years and through
periods of crisis and change. Invariably, however, there is a complexity about friendship
with Pluto here. Betrayal may be an issue – they may be deceived or let down by
someone they trusted or discover that they, themselves, have the ability to be ruthless
and turn on another. The famous gangster John Dillinger, betrayed by the ‘lady in red’,
was born with Pluto in this house ruling Scorpio on the 5th house of romance. The
groups he belonged to were Plutonic, that is, of the ‘underworld’.

Sexual rivalry or sexual undercurrents between friends can occur with Pluto in this
house. A friendship may start as a sexual relationship and grow into something else, or
vice versa. The loss or death of a friend might awaken a host of psychological and
philosophical issues. Power conflicts between friends are also possible with this
placement. They may fear that unless they control the relationship, the friend might do
something to hurt them. With Pluto in the 11th, the reasons for forming friendships
should be examined – are there secret or ulterior motives for wanting to be a particular
person’s friend? Conversely, they might suspect a friend of treachery in this respect.

The 11th house also describes a person’s goals and objectives in life, and the ideals
one wishes to realize in the future. With Pluto here, the whole manner in which they set
about achieving goals and objectives may need to be periodically examined and revised.
Some may exhibit unswerving concentration and one-pointedness while others lean
towards an obsessiveness which justifies any degree of ruthlessness and deceit to ensure
their aims. At some point in the life, there could be a significant reorientation of their
sense of purpose, direction, or the part they are to play in the larger scheme of things.

If Pluto has many hard aspects to it, they may be confused about where they fit into
the collective in general. Some may feel isolated or lonely, as if the flow of history is
moving in a different direction from where they want to go. Liz Greene refers to this
position as the ‘doomsday prophet’ who looks to the future and sees disaster. Rather
than noticing what is going right, they notice first what is going wrong, or perceive the
hidden seeds of destruction in what may seem like the best or brightest of plans. Like
Cassandra in Greek mythology, they may find that others do not want to hear about this
vision.



Pluto in the 12th
With Pluto in the 12th, there is a pressing need to bring what’s weak, hidden or
undeveloped in the psyche into clearer focus. As with Pluto in the 8th, some people
might be so frightened of being overwhelmed by the nature or intensity of their deeper
drives and complexes, that they exercise a tight control over these. However, very often
it is not only ‘neurotic’ urges which are suppressed, but healthy, positive drives as well.
The psychologist Abraham Maslow pointed out that many people not only evade what
they deem is negative in themselves, but also block what is ‘god-like’ and laudable. He
called this ‘the Jonah Complex’, the fear of our own greatness.6 From my experience,
certain individuals with Pluto in the 12th defend themselves not just against the so-
called ‘lower’ or carnal drives, but also against such positive impulses as the desire to
develop their ‘higher’ possibilities more fully, or to realize more of their innate
potentials. To paraphrase Maslow, they are afraid to become that which they glimpse in
their most perfect moments. Why?

The answer, in a nutshell, is death-anxiety. All change makes them highly anxious
because it means the dissolution of what they already know themselves to be. Growth
inevitably requires the breaking down of existing patterns or the letting go of what is
familiar, and on some deep level they equate these kinds of changes with death itself.
Part of them desperately yearns for growth and development, and yet another part
mounts every campaign possible to ward off what they unconsciously feel is trying to
kill them. Until they locate and make peace with their deep existential dread of non-
being, they will keep displacing their fear onto whatever comes along which threatens
to change them. Until they know they are afraid to die, they cannot fully live.

Roberto Assagioli, the founder of Psychosynthesis, a transpersonal approach to
human development, was born with Pluto in Gemini in the 12th. Feeling that Freud
concentrated too much on just the ‘basement’ of the human being, Assagioli devised his
own psychological system to take every level of the building into account. A basic tenet
of Psychosynthesis reflects the meaning of a 12th house Pluto: that all the elements of
the psyche – both dark and light – can be consciously recognized, experienced,
accepted and integrated into awareness. Through dream analysis, introspection, therapy
and various exercises and techniques, those with Pluto in the 12th can release the
energy trapped in unconscious complexes and redirect it towards strengthening and
building the whole of the personality, including their ‘higher’ intuitive and emotional
faculties. Provided they can track down and deal with their death-anxiety, people with
Pluto in the 12th are well equipped to search out what is weak, blocked, hidden or
missing in the psyche. Indeed, what more appropriate place for them to exercise the
innate investigative nature of Pluto than in the house of ‘secret enemies’ and ‘behind-
the-scenes activity’. And rather than waiting for angry and neglected parts of their own
psyches to chase after them, they are well advised to go hunting for these first.

In the 12th, the destructive energy associated with Pluto can be used to remove that
which is obsolete and detrimental to new growth. Or destructive energy can be
improperly displaced and unleashed outwardly in a treacherous way or dangerously
turned against the self. The difficulty for those with Pluto in the 12th, however, is that



they are not simply dealing with the personal unconscious but with the collective
unconscious as well.

A contemporary medical model theorizes that noxious bacteria and viruses are
always present in the physical system, but the healthy or strong person is able to defend
himself or herself from these taking over. Similarly, stress is everywhere in society, but
some people have a better ability than others to prevent it from getting into their
systems. Those with Pluto in the 12th are more sensitive to what is dark, destructive or
overwhelming in the atmosphere than someone with, let’s say, a well-aspected Venus in
the 12th. While Venus there may feel that ‘love is in the air’, what might Pluto sniff?
Some of them may unconsciously be ‘taken over’ by what other people have repressed
– sexual drives, anger, hostility, etc. It is not unlikely for a child with this placement, for
instance, to take on the role of family scapegoat or ‘identified patient’. When tensions
run too high at home, he is the one who gets sick or burns down the school. Starting a
conflagration serves two purposes: it gives a concrete expression to the emotions he
feels around him and it serves to divert the parental unit from their own interpersonal
problems. Those with Pluto in the 12th can make better sense of their actions and
behaviour if they view what they do and feel in relation to a larger scheme of things.

The 12th house represents the greater whole out of which we come and into which
we are born. Pluto there has to contend with the less pleasant aspects of this inheritance
– the collective shadow, that which society as a whole finds ugly or unacceptable. They
may be required to acknowledge, integrate and, if possible, transmute the anger, hate,
destructiveness and rage accumulated over centuries. In this sense, they are in charge of
society’s waste disposal unit. They either act out the collective’s shadow and thereby
release this pent-up energy or they gather it inside themselves and find some way to
creatively transform and redirect it. Albert Speer, the Nazi who served as Hitler’s
minister for war and arms production, was born with Pluto in the 12th, ruling Scorpio
on the 5th house of self-expression. He was somebody who supplied the weapons, in a
quite literal sense, through which the collective’s hate and aggression could be
expended.

Some people with Pluto in the 12th may work to transform outmoded institutions or
campaign to change laws which are no longer functioning as they should. Often, and
sometimes in mysterious and obscure ways, they facilitate changes on the level of the
collective. In a questionnaire composed by Marilyn Ferguson, author of The Aquarian
Conspiracy, respondents were asked who had influenced them most in their lives. At
the very top of the list was Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, with five planets including Pluto
in his 12th. (Assagioli also was in the top seven mentioned.)7

Periodic withdrawals from life may be necessary in order to grapple with emotional
complexes which have been awakened through social interactions. They might be
significantly affected through brushes with institutions, such as confinements in
hospitals or prisons. Assagioli (Pluto in Gemini in the 12th) was put into prison in the
1930s because his humanitarian and philosophical beliefs threatened the Fascist
government of Italy at the time. When he was released, he told friends that it was one of
the most beneficial and creative periods of his life. The American writer O. Henry spent



three years in jail writing some of America’s best-loved short stories: he had Pluto in
the 12th.

As these examples suggest, Pluto here gives the capacity to transform a crisis into
something productive and useful, or make the most of even limited or restricted
circumstances. Assagioli wrote that it was most often during times of crises that a
person discovered the will (Pluto), awakening to the knowledge that he or she is a
‘living subject, an actor, endowed with the power to choose’.8 Even if those with Pluto
in the 12th cannot change an unfortunate situation, they can still choose what attitude
they are going to hold towards it. They have the ability to learn from failure and defeat
and to understand the necessity of one cycle or phase of existence ending in order that
another can begin. In this respect, a 12th house Pluto recalls one of Nietzsche’s sayings:
‘That which does not kill me, makes me stronger.’ Even suffering and pain can have
meaning if they make a person more whole.

Scorpio on the cusp or contained within the 12th is similar to Pluto there.

Notes – Chapter 27
1. O. Carl Simonton, Stephanie Simonton, James Creighton, Getting Well Again,

Bantam Books, Toronto, 1981, p. 24.
2. Anthony Storr, Human Aggression, Penguin, London, 1982, p.34.
3. St Augustine cited in M. Montaigne, The Complete Essays of Montaigne, trans.

Donald Frame, Stanford University Press, California, 1965, p. 63.
4. Cicero cited in Montaigne, Complete Essays, p. 56.
5. W. Durant, On the Meaning of Life, Ray Long and Richard Smith, New York, 1932,

pp. 128-9.
6. Maslow cited by Haronian in ‘The Repression of the Sublime’, Psychosynthesis

Research Foundation, New York, 1967.
7. Ferguson, pp. 462-3.
8. Assagioli cited by Keen, ‘The Golden Mean of Assagioli’, in Psychology Today,

December 1974.



28.

THE MOON’S NODES THROUGH THE HOUSES

The Moon circles the Earth each month, crossing the plane of the ecliptic twice: once as
it ascends from south to north, and then two weeks later as it descends from north to
south, at the opposite side of the zodiac. The ascending point is the north node, also
known as Rahu, Caput Draconis or the Dragon’s Head. The descending point is the
south node, also referred to as Ketu, Cauda Draconis, or the Dragon’s Tail. The north
node and south node will always fall in opposing signs and houses.

Since the nodes of the Moon occur where the Moon crosses the apparent path of the
Sun around the Earth, they symbolically link the Sun, Moon and Earth together.
Understood in this way, the houses highlighted by the nodal axis indicate the spheres of
life where we might successfully fuse or integrate the complementary solar and lunar
principles within the personality. A brief recapitulation of the inherent conflict between
the Sun and Moon principles will make the function of the nodes clearer.

Ishtar, a typical Moon goddess, was worshipped as ‘the all-accepting one’.
Sometimes symbolized as a prostitute who ‘gave herself’ to anyone who came along,
icons of her were placed on the windowsills of ancient Babylonian homes. In a non-
discriminating and non-choosing way, Ishtar went with whatever happened. If she was
feeling joy, she gave herself to joy. If she was feeling pain, she gave herself to pain. In
this sense, the Moon is identified with the emotions and feelings, and with the
instinctual urges of the body.

Acting out of habit and stored memory-impressions, the Moon represents the
regressive pull back into the past. Past experiences condition our expectations and
behaviour later in life. If, as children, we only had Mother’s full attention if we were
sick, then a lasting impression would be recorded into consciousness that the way to be
noticed was to be ill. Later in life, we might instinctively fall sick if we felt in need of
attention. In this sense, the Moon is repetitive and ‘lazy’. But many of the Moon’s
stored memory-impressions from the past are useful later in life: the Moon principle
allows us to draw on a reservoir of instinctual wisdom – acquired not only in early
childhood but inherited from our ancestral and animal past and coded in every cell of
our bodies. The house occupied by the south node of the Moon is a sphere in which, for
better or for worse, we act instinctively and from habit.

Complementing the principle of the Moon, the Sun represents the Hero. The hero
does not necessarily let himself be seduced by the Moon goddess. The Sun or heroic
principle is the proponent of the will (the ‘organ of the future’), while the Moon aligns
herself with the memory (‘the organ of the past’).1 The will is suggestive of resolution
and determination, and of self-generating rather than reactive behaviour. Resisting the
pull from the past, the Sun has the power to provoke change, implement choice, and



spontaneously inaugurate a series of successive actions. While the Moon is swayed by
feelings and instincts, the Sun chooses to create the situation as it sees fit, guided by the
direction it wants to take. The house in which the north node of the Moon is placed
requires the exercising of the solar heroic principle. This area of life is a fresh field of
experience hallmarked for us to explore and conquer. Developing ourselves in that area
brings forth previously untapped potentialities and adds to our repertoire of skills.
Through attending to this domain we create new experiences for ourselves and generate
new possibilities. The struggle to master and expand ourselves in that spectrum of life
inspires a deep sense of purpose and direction.

An analogy can be drawn between the north and south nodes and the human brain.
One part of the brain stores what is inbred and instinctual and serves to maintain the
organism. However, another area of the brain – the cerebral cortex – is a more recent
evolutionary development. The cortex is not required to maintain life: it can be removed
and yet life-processes like the functioning of the heart, digestion, lungs and metabolism
will continue. The cortex serves a different and yet very important purpose – it governs
all the higher psychological capacities of humans, such as thought, imagination and the
organization of experience. With the development of the cerebral cortex, we are no
longer bound to meet life in an instinctive and stereotyped way, but we have gained the
capacity to be self-reflective. The cortex enables us to be conscious of being conscious.
We can now imagine different possibilities and make choices to bring the desired ones
about.2 It would appear that the south node corresponds to the instinctual seat of the
brain, while the north node relates to the cerebral cortex.

To open the door to the north node’s house, we first have to overcome a tendency to
stay too long in the area of life or way of being suggested by the opposite placement,
the house of the south node. The south node is the domain of capacities already
developed. Like the Moon goddess, we are drawn to that sphere instinctually and from
habit. It serves as a kind of resting place, an area of life where we can digest experience
and recharge our batteries before embarking on new and unknown territory. I must
emphasize that many of the pre-coded patterns and capacities of the sign and house
placement of the south node are undoubtedly precious and are not to be unduly
discarded and neglected. But some of these tendencies might have played out their
usefulness and are followed because that is simply what is easiest to do. The door to the
south node’s house is easily opened and we may unconsciously escape into this domain
to avoid the struggle of growth in other directions. Entering the house of the north node
takes more doing: the key is turned through the exercise of the will and the effort of
choosing. Lazy people don’t pass through the threshold.

The houses brought into contention by the nodal axis provide the fields of experience
which awaken us to the archetypal conflict between unconscious, habitual behaviour
(the Moon) and conscious choice (the Sun). The south node represents what has already
been packed in the suitcase when the journey began. We have it at our disposal. The
north node points to new acquisitions and wealth we can purchase along the way,
providing we are willing to pay the price and make the effort to shop around. It doesn’t
have to be an either/or situation between the south and north node spheres. And/and is



possible and preferable. But if the field of experience associated with the south node is
overdone at the expense of the north node, then growth is slowed down. We don’t pick
up anything new along the way.

North Node in the 1st, South Node in the 7th
These people should learn to stand on their own feet, making decisions and choices
based on what they need or want for themselves. They must honour who they are. The
line of least resistance is to allow others to dominate them and to over-adjust by trying
to be too much what others need or want them to be.

South Node in the 1st, North Node in the 7th
These people tend to live too much for themselves, only looking out for Number One.
They need to learn more about co-operation and compromise, through adapting
themselves more readily to what others need and require, especially in the area of close
partnership and marriage.

North Node in the 2nd, South Node in the 8th
They should develop their own resources and values rather than relying on the
resources and values of other people. There is the need to earn money in their own
right, even if they could live comfortably off others. In this way, they gain a truer sense
of their self-worth. There is a need to come to terms with and accept the world of form
and matter.

South Node in the 2nd, North Node in the 8th
They may have rigid value systems which need to be altered by taking other people’s
viewpoints and beliefs into consideration. Some may feel that allowing others to help or
support them is a sign of weakness, and that self-sufficiency in all matters is the
priority. They should endeavour to help other people develop a greater sense of self-
worth. They may need to learn that pain and crises, rather than just being things to be
avoided at all costs, often bring opportunities for growth and positive change.

North Node in the 3rd, South Node in the 9th
There is the need to develop the capacity to think rationally and logically rather than
being overly swayed by blind faith. Their intuitive vision may be good, but the issue is
integrating this into the everyday life. It is worth exploring all the possibilities at hand
and what the immediate environment has to offer, before rushing far afield to seek what
they are after.

South Node in the 3rd, North Node in the 9th
There may be too great an emphasis on the rational and logical mind and they need to
develop the more intuitive, feeling and creative side of the brain. There is a danger of
being too provincial, and they should expand their awareness by exploring other
cultures and belief systems rather than just the ones they have known during childhood.



North Node in the 4th, South Node in the 10th
Growth comes through ‘inner work’ on the self. Rather than basking in outward
achievement and being in the limelight, these people should take time to develop the
private and personal sphere of life, especially the home base. In other words, the home
and soul should not be neglected for the sake of worldly success. Activities which are
nourishing to the feeling life of the person and which enhance psychological self-
knowledge are encouraged.

South Node in the 4th, North Node in the 10th
There is the need to venture from the home base and balance any tendencies towards
morbid introspection or hiding the self away through finding a job or career which
serves the collective in some way. In a woman’s chart, this indicates that just being a
housewife is not enough. Reclusive or introverted tendencies may vie with the need to
develop some sense of their own authority, power and usefulness through a career.

North Node in the 5th, South Node in the 11th
There is the need to further develop their personal creativity, giving more spontaneous
expression to the self and feelings. Anything which augments their sense of specialness
and uniqueness should be encouraged, rather than just blending in with the crowd.
Taking on communal goals and objectives rather than defining their own needs and
wishes can be detrimental to individuation. In other words, it is too easy to be swayed
by others rather than standing up for the self.

South Node in the 5th, North Node in the 11th
These people should be encouraged to become involved with group endeavours. There
is a need to develop social and/or political awareness, to promote a common cause
rather than just being concerned with their own personal affairs or interests.

North Node in the 6th, South Node in the 12th
More attention needs to be paid to the efficient and practical management of everyday
life. Not accepting the responsibilities of mundane existence, there can be too much
daydreaming, or a secret desire to be rescued, saved and looked after by others.
Developing and refining their skills, talents, resources and practical capabilities will
give more satisfaction. The body needs to be cared for and respected.

South Node in the 6th, North Node in the 12th
Greater sympathy and understanding of others is needed to balance an overly critical or
judgemental nature. They could be too controlled and rational, believing only in that
which can be seen, proved, measured or tested. The ‘heart centre’ needs to be opened so
that they feel connected to something greater than themselves. In this way, life becomes
richer and more meaningful.

Notes – Chapter 28



1. Hannah Arendt cited by Yalom, p. 291.
2. Russell, pp. 19-20.



29.

THE POSSIBLE EFFECTS OF CHIRON THROUGH THE
HOUSES

In 1977 a tiny planetoid named Chiron was discovered between the orbits of Saturn and
Uranus. The sighting of a new celestial body heralds a change of consciousness in
society and reflects crucial historical developments. For instance, Uranus’ discovery in
1781 can be linked to a period of revolution and rebellion: America was rebelling
against England, class war raged in France, and Napoleon was soon to march through
Europe. Neptune was located in 1846, coinciding with the Romantic Age and the
yearning for something more ideal as expressed through the rise of welfare movements
for the poor, young, sick and needy. And in 1848 a wave of revolutions swept across
Europe. Pluto’s discovery was synchronous with the rise of fascism and totalitarianism
on the one hand, and the emergence of the new science of psychology, in which
uncharted depths of the mind were probed, on the other. If Chiron is to follow suit, we
can turn to mythology to glimpse its connection to critical developments in the
evolution of the collective. Moreover, grasping Chiron’s archetypal significance will
enable us to deduce its possible effects in a house.1

Chiron’s father was Saturn, and his mother Philyra, one of the daughters of Oceanus.
According to the legend, Saturn’s wife, Rhea, caught her husband and Philyra in the act
of coupling. To escape, Saturn changed himself into a stallion and ran away. The
product of the union was Chiron, the first Centaur, born with a body half human, half
animal. Distraught at giving birth to what she felt was a monster, Philyra prayed to the
gods to relieve her of the burden of her newborn child at any cost. In reply, they took
Chiron away and turned Philyra into a lemon tree.

Chiron’s first wound is the rejection by his mother, and wherever Chiron is housed in
the chart is an area of life in which we might be sensitive to rejection. On a symbolic
level, this may reflect the ‘fall from grace’ we all experience when the contracting
womb thrusts us out into the harsh world. Trapped within a separate and distinct
physical body, we lose that sense of oneness with all life. Chiron’s house placement
may show where being in the body creates a problem – where our earthly physical
drives and urges could be in conflict with pulls towards something transcendent, pure
and divine. Chiron, the son of Saturn, was part divine and yet part animal. We, too, are
neither wholly one or the other and the house position of Chiron could indicate where
this conflict is most keenly felt.

Raised by the gods, Chiron grew to be very wise. His animal side invested him with
an earthy wisdom and a closeness to nature. He was what the American Indians called a
shaman, a wise medicine-man. Well-versed in the medicinal properties of various herbs,
he practised healing and naturopathy. But his knowledge was not limited to the sphere



of healing – he studied music, ethics, hunting, war and astrology. Stories of his great
wisdom spread far and wide, and inevitably various gods and high-ranking mortals
brought their children to Chiron to be educated. Becoming a kind of foster parent to
divine children, he taught Jason, Hercules, Asclepius and Achilles, among others. In an
excellent lecture on Chiron, Eve Jackson points out that the principal subjects he taught
were warfare and healing.2 In this sense, he was conversant with the art of creating
wounds and then healing them. The house position of Chiron may show where we have
been wounded or damaged in some way and yet through that experience gain a kind of
sensitivity and self-knowledge which enables us to better help and understand other
people. Ms Jackson associates Chiron’s discovery with the rise of popular interest in
psychotherapy, a profession in which painful psychological wounds are brought to the
surface in the process of healing. Indeed, Chiron appears to be strongly placed in the
charts of many healers and therapists.

Chiron prepared people to be heroes. Teaching not only survival skills, he also
instilled cultural and ethical values. His pupils were adept at surviving in the world, but
they were also capable of performing noble feats and deeds in the service of their
country or greater whole of which they were a part. The house position of Chiron may
indicate not only where we can teach others, but also where our own heroic potential
could come to the fore – an area of life in which we go beyond just being ordinary and
yet don’t lose touch with ‘real life’. Chiron’s orbit swings erratically between Saturn
and Uranus, and therefore provides a link between these two principles. In Chiron’s
house, it is possible that Uranus’ bold new insights and revelations can be applied
practically and within the confines of what is acceptable to the establishment. Chiron
marries instinct with intelligence: in his house we can be inventive, intuitive, and yet
down-to-earth as well.

While involved in a drinking bout with some of the more raucous centaurs, Hercules
accidentally wounded Chiron in the knee with a venomous arrow. The poison was from
the deadly Hydra and produced a wound which was incurable even with Chiron’s own
medicine. So we have a curious phenomenon: the great healer himself suffered from a
wound which could not be healed. I have noticed that Chiron is often prominent in the
charts of disabled people, many of whom fashion a meaningful life for themselves
through being of service to other people. Also, it appears that the best therapists are the
ones who are most aware of their own psychological imperfections and neuroses. In his
book, Power and the Helping Professions, Adolf Guggenbühl Craig points out ‘that the
patient has a physician within himself but also that there is a patient in the doctor.’3 The
healer who is in touch with his or her own pain and weakness is better able to help
patients constellate the inner healer in themselves.

As a reward for all the services he had performed, Chiron was given the gift of
immortality by the gods. Therefore, he was in a strange position: he could neither
recover from his wound, nor die. Finally a solution to his predicament was found.
Prometheus had been banished to the underworld as a punishment for stealing fire from
the gods. His release was contingent on someone else taking his place in Tartarus.
Chiron, no longer wishing to be immortal, agreed to exchange places with Prometheus.



In this sense, Chiron and Prometheus needed one another. They represent the blending
of two different kinds of wisdom: Chiron took earthly wisdom and used it for higher
purposes, while Prometheus took fire from the gods, symbolic of creative vision, and
brought it down to earth. Chiron’s house is where we need to integrate fiery vision with
practical common sense.

Chiron chooses death. He accepts its necessity, neatly making arrangements for it, so
that he faces its reality with peace and nobility. Partially inspired by the work of
Elisabeth Kübler-Ross, this concept of accepting and preparing for death has recently
come to many more people’s attention. Chiron’s attitude towards dying, and his holistic
understanding of health, healing and education, are all signs of our times.

It is too soon to be certain of the sign rulership of Chiron. Given the centaur
connection, some astrologers believe that Chiron should be associated with Sagittarius.
Others feel Virgo is appropriate because of his association with healing and practical
wisdom. Present-day advances in computer technology and methods of statistical
research are being applied in assessing the significance of Chiron; in the meantime, it is
hoped that the following brief examples of Chiron’s possible effects in the different
houses will shed some light on its influence in the chart.

Chiron in the 1st
With Chiron in the 1st, the wounding can occur early in life. For instance, one woman I
know with this placement was born with a condition commonly called ‘brittle bones’.
Because of her delicate state, the doctors advised her mother that the child should not be
picked up or held, and in this way, as an infant, she was deprived of a necessary
physical solace and closeness. Other placements in her chart indicate a very powerful
will, and she bravely worked within the limitations of her handicap to become strong
and self-sufficient. At the time of our reading, transiting Uranus was conjunct her 1st
house Chiron and she was hoping to begin a training as a physiotherapist.

Another example is an artist born with Chiron in Sagittarius in the 1st house
conjunct the Ascendant. Severely stricken with an atrophying disease of the nervous
system, he nonetheless used what strength he had to teach painting to young people.
Although Chiron chose to die, he was rewarded by the gods for his good work by being
made part of a constellation in the heavens for all to see for all eternity. Similarly,
although this man died while still in his early thirties, like the immortal Chiron his
memory and influence live on through his paintings and the future artwork of those he
taught.

Both these people personify the wounded-healer/teacher nature of Chiron and serve
as a source of inspiration not only for disabled individuals but also for many of the able-
bodied people who have known them.

In her study of the charts of sixty-nine healers/therapists Eve Jackson found that
eleven of these had Chiron in the 1st.

Chiron in the 2nd
The ability Chiron had to apply spiritual, philosophical and ethical insights to everyday



life and practical matters is highlighted with Chiron in the 2nd. Elisabeth Kübler-Ross,
whose pioneering work in the field of death and dying has been of practical use to both
dying people and their families, was born with Chiron in Taurus in the 2nd. Her work
came to the fore just as Chiron was returning to its own place in her chart (Chiron’s
cycle is roughly 50 years).

I have also seen Chiron in the 2nd in the chart of two people who suffered great pain
through bankruptcy and financial collapse, and yet used the experience to broaden their
philosophical and psychological understanding of life and themselves.

Chiron in the 3rd
A woman who cured herself of cancer using special diets and visualization techniques
is now writing and distributing information about combating the illness in these ways:
she has Chiron in Sagittarius in the 3rd house of communication. I have observed this
placement in the charts of other people who write on the subject of medicine and
healing.

Their wounding may come during adolescence and the growing-up years. Some with
this placement may have difficulty fitting into the early schooling situation or have
learning or speech difficulties. In a few cases, those with Chiron here had brothers or
sisters who were ill or afflicted in some way, and their formative years were marked by
the need to be sensitive to their sibling’s condition.

Chiron in the 4th
If the 4th house is taken to be the father, then he may carry the Chiron projection. The
child with this placement may be exceptionally sensitive to his wounds, or view the
father as a kind of teacher or mentor. One woman I know with Sun conjunct Chiron in
the 4th was, as a young girl, abandoned by her father shortly after her mother died of
cancer. This early rejection contributed to her receptivity to the pain, needs and feelings
of other people.

It is possible that in the later years of life, those with this placement may develop a
latent interest in various forms of healing.

Chiron in the 5th
The 5th house is associated with children and young people, and those with this
placement could serve as teachers to the young. One woman with Chiron here overcame
heroin addiction and now works helping adolescents with drug problems.

It has already been mentioned that Chiron’s house placement may show where our
earthly physical drives and desires could conflict with pulls towards something
transcendent, pure and divine. I did a chart for a very religious man with Chiron in the
5th who was tortured by sexual desires for pubescent girls and boys. Through
psychotherapy and prayer, he has successfully transmuted these urges into constructive
channels and expresses his love of children by working as a tutor and counsellor for
‘problem’ adolescents.

Prince Charles was born with Chiron conjunct his Sun in the 5th house of creative



self-expression. Eve Jackson quotes from an interview he gave: ‘Ever since I was a
child, I’ve been interested in medical matters and in the business of healing – I’ve
always wished I could heal.’ In recent years he has expressed his wholehearted support
and enthusiasm (5th house) for holistic medicine.

Chiron in the 6th
To some degree, Chiron suffered by being trapped in a body he didn’t like. I have seen
this placement in the charts of a few people who felt uncomfortable or limited within
the physical body. One was an unusually tall woman and another a rather short man.
However, the kind of psychological adjustments that they had to make contributed to
their sensitivity and understanding of the pain of other people. The man in question has
worked extensively and productively with handicapped people of all ages.

Recalling Chiron’s holistic approach to medicine, this placement shows up
frequently in the charts I have seen of therapists who work with the body – those who
use neo-Reichian techniques, massage, and herbal remedies, etc.

Since Chiron was so adept in the art of survival skills, it is likely that those with
Chiron in the 6th have the potential to master practical crafts such as cooking, sewing or
other kinds of useful handiwork.

Chiron in the 7th
With this placement, it is possible that the nature of Chiron could be projected onto the
partner, who might be seen as obviously wounded, either physically or psychologically.
Or it may be that the partner is viewed as a kind of teacher or wise mentor. Conversely,
those with Chiron here could act as a teacher to another person.

Chiron’s feeling of rejection can come through a relationship if this planet is placed
in the 7th. The hurt of a painful separation from a loved one may bring up deep wounds
which soften, sensitize and transform even the most hard-hearted people. Or they could
experience frustration at the discrepancy between an idealized notion of love and the
reality before them.

Chiron in the 8th
Those with Chiron in the 8th may be sensitive to sexual rejection, or feel inadequate or
confused about their sexual identity. Strong libidinal drives could conflict with their
more spiritual or religious inclinations.

It is likely that they are extremely receptive to any painful undercurrents in the
atmosphere, and possess latent healing abilities which they should be encouraged to
develop. Some may be able to teach others about the deeper mysteries or subtle
dimensions of life. The 8th house is associated with death, and those with this
placement may want to study the example of the famous centaur who chose death with
peace and equanimity.

Chiron in the 9th
The 9th house will highlight Chiron’s ability to take intuitive and innovative insights



and apply these in a practical manner. They are likely to make very capable teachers.
The highly respected and deep-thinking astrologer John Addey was born with Chiron in
Aries in the 9th house conjunct the Midheaven. Crippled with an incurable form of
rheumatism, he worked as a teacher for disabled people. Furthermore, he once
remarked that he would have probably been all too happy to spend his days between
golf and horses had it not been for his illness which forced him to stay still for a
moment and reflect on life. His wound impelled him to turn his attention to the 9th
house matters of philosophy and astrology. With the clarity and finesse of the
mythological Chiron, Addey related the abstract and theoretical concept of harmonics in
a practical way to chart analysis.

Chiron in the 10th
Any planet in the 10th will be linked to career and profession. Of the sixty-nine charts
of healers/therapists Eve Jackson studied, fifteen of these had Chiron in the 10th. In
short, the person’s function in the world could well reflect the healing qualities of the
Greek Chiron. Nevertheless, Chiron was unsure where he fitted in – he was half divine
and half animal, and those with Chiron here may be uncertain of how they are to fit into
society, of the role they are meant to play in the collective scheme of things.

A 10th house Chiron may also describe a feeling of rejection by the mother, and the
consequent psychological pain and growth that stems from such an experience. It is also
possible that the mother might have carried the Chiron projection – she was seen as
wounded or afflicted in some way or conversely mirrored Chiron’s healing and
philosophical nature.

Chiron in the 11th
Those with Chiron in the 11th could be involved in the running of various kinds of
therapy or healing centres. They might be sensitive to the pain in society and perhaps
concerned with helping or teaching those who are oppressed or downtrodden. There
may be a nagging fear of rejection or slight within the context of groups and friendships
or some hurt incurred through such involvements. Ultimately this pain could act as a
catalyst for further self-knowledge and self-understanding.

Friends may carry any of the connotations of Chiron – either people involved in the
healing/teaching profession or those who are obviously psychologically or physically
vulnerable. Those with Chiron here may serve as mentors to their friends, or look to
their associates for guidance, direction and support.

Chiron in the 12th
In Eve Jackson’s study, the third most frequent position of Chiron in the charts of
healers/therapists is the 12th house. Of these, two distinct groups were noted: those who
practised ‘spiritual healing’, such as the laying on of hands or even absent healing and
those who worked primarily with dreams or guided imaging. I did a chart for a woman
disabled from birth who has the Sun conjunct Chiron in the 12th; she now works as a
psychological counsellor in a hospital (12th house of institutions).



For those with Chiron in the 12th, unhealed wounds may be buried deep in the
unconscious or stem from a difficult pre-natal experience. The psychologist Arthur
Janov, author of The Primal Scream, was born with Chiron in the 12th in Aries: he feels
that the way to reconnect to one’s true power and vitality (Aries) is through releasing
these deeply entrenched early traumas.

Reincarnationists might propose that those with 12th house Chirons have had
connections with healing or teaching in previous lives. In any case, those with this
placement have the potential to tap a rich source of practical wisdom stored in the
recesses of their own psyches.

Notes – Chapter 29
1. Tony Joseph, ‘Chiron: Archetypal Image of Teacher and Healer’, in Ephemeris of

Chiron, Phenomena Publications, Toronto, 1982, p.9.
2. Eve Jackson, ‘The Wounded Healer’, lecture presented to Astrological Association

Conference of Great Britain, Sept. 1984.
3. Adolf Guggenbühl Craig, Power in the Helping Professions, Spring Publications,

Zurich, 1978, p. 91.



30.

A CASE STUDY

Any placement in the horoscope can only be understood in the context of the entire
chart. No matter how well the meaning of a planet in a house is comprehended, we still
have to consider many other factors in order to fully interpret the significance of any
house. These include:

1. The aspects to the planet(s) in the house.
2. The sign on the cusp and other signs in the house.
3. The ruling planet of the sign on the cusp, and its placement by house, sign and
aspect.
4. The ruling planet(s) of any other sign(s) in the house and their placement by house,
sign and aspect.

The following case discussion is included to help clarify the art of synthesizing these
different chart factors in reference to the houses.

Kate: A Woman in Search of Her Own Power
Kate is an attractive woman in her early forties. While keeping a secretarial job as a
means of earning a regular income, she uses her free time to study psychology and
healing. Recently, she has begun to counsel people on a part-time basis, and has led a
number of groups on various aspects of ‘spiritual healing’ and self-healing. At present
Kate is single, but she has been married twice – her first husband died suspiciously
from a mixture of drugs and alcohol, and she was divorced from her second husband in
1972. She has a sixteen-year-old daughter (Sally) whom she has raised almost entirely
on her own.

Kate and I have met twice over a period of two years to interpret her chart. A clear
correlation between her house placements (see Figure 16) and what she has reported to
me about her life can be seen in these details of her case history, clarifying how the
energies in a house actually manifest in the unfoldment of the life-plan.

Ascendant and 1st House
Those with Leo on the Ascendant create a world in which the need to develop their
power, authority and creative expression (Leo) is the means of defining their individual
selfhood (1st). Because the Ascendant ruler – the Sun – is placed in the 5th, self-
discovery is also linked to the 5th house: Kate told me that raising a child on her own
(5th house – children) has contributed more than anything else to her sense of power
and capability. It is also through the spare-time activities (5th) of studying psychology



and healing that Kate’s real inner self has been touched.
At first glance, it might seem that the Sun in Sagittarius in the fiery 5th should have

no problems freeing the creativity and self-expression. But in Kate’s case, the Sun (the
chart ruler) is aspected by all three outer planets, suggesting the battles, challenges and
breakthroughs she has faced in finding her own identity and confidence. Kate told me
that she was afraid of her own power for a long time – particularly in the ‘psychic’ area,
‘which terrified me and I tried to fight off’.

Fig. 16 ‘Kate’, born 25 November 1943, 21:20 GDT (-1), Bloxwich, England
(52N37, 2W00)

Pluto in the 1st denotes that life is viewed as a struggle with many traumatic ups and
downs and occasional sweeping changes. Her two marriages involved either emotional
or physical violence, and both ended rather drastically. (More on this will be covered in
the 7th house.) Pluto is close enough to the Ascendant to suggest something difficult
about her birth. Kate was born six weeks late during World War II and the delay put her
mother under terrific strain. Throughout Kate’s life, transitions into new phases of being
are accompanied by mounting tension and a slow, gradual build-up to change.

Pluto marked her early years, and at the age of five-and-a-half (as the progressed
Ascendant conjuncted Pluto) she nearly died of bronchial pneumonia. At the same time,
she was cut off from her grandmother – the one family member to whom she felt close
and who had been a surrogate mother since Kate’s birth. She compared this period with
later ones in her life: ‘It was like going through a tunnel alone, with no support.’ True to
her 1st house Pluto, she also kept her deepest feelings and fears bottled up inside her,



but the ‘occasional small event would trigger huge eruptions in me’. Kate once said,
‘Perhaps when I learn to live harmoniously with my own darkness, I will be ready to
fully accept and express all that I am.’ With Pluto in the house of self, the journey to
find who she really is must include a descent into the underworld.

Kate commented: ‘Finding myself has been a major task – projecting myself out to
the world looks like taking the rest of my life!’ This statement reflects the north node in
Leo in the 1st – again highlighting the need to find her identity, power and creativity in
her own right and often against difficult odds.

2nd House
Benevolent Jupiter is in Kate’s 2nd house. In keeping with the nature of this planet,
Kate remarked, ‘I always seem to have the ability to scrape up what’s most needed from
somewhere just when things are really bad.’ She commented that the way money comes
to her when she is desperate has contributed to her feeling that she is ‘connected to
something greater – it all does have a purpose and ultimately that is good and positive.’

The 2nd house is what we value, and Kate definitely values her freedom (Jupiter). ‘I
don’t value material things – in fact, I can’t wait until Sally is old enough to leave home
– then I shall be free to travel and go where I please.’ The 2nd house Jupiter squares the
5th house Sun. The kind of growth gained from being a parent (Sun in 5th) is important
to her and yet conflicts with (squares) the freedom (Jupiter in the 2nd) which she so
dearly treasures. Jupiter in the 2nd rules Sagittarius in the 5th; proving she could
support Sally has given Kate greater confidence, optimism and courage.

Kate herself said that her real values are ‘spiritual ones – a yearning for meaning and
transcendence’ (Jupiter). She believes in the magical and uplifting qualities of certain
objects, and has certain minerals and rocks around the house which she will hold in her
hand to draw strength and healing when needed. In this sense, the material world is
imbued with the protective, inspirational attributes of Jupiter.

3rd House
The 3rd house describes one’s mental style, early education, way of communicating,
and relationship with siblings. Neptune in the 3rd often exhibits an uncanny insight into
the undercurrents at work in the environment. From Kate’s description of her early life,
it appears that there was an unwritten family rule that ‘nothing was ever talked about
overtly’. Kate sensed many things were wrong with her parents’ marriage, but it wasn’t
until her early teens that her suspicions were openly confirmed.

Neptune often has to make sacrifices in the house in which it is placed. In the 3rd,
Kate had to make many adjustments to the needs of her younger brother, who was
epileptic, although his condition was never properly explained to her. All this highlights
the atmosphere of loneliness and alienation Kate felt in the early home. With Neptune
in the 3rd ruling Pisces on the 8th, and a Pisces mother and father, Kate learned to keep
everything she was feeling hidden away – quite a difficult assignment for someone with
Sun in Sagittarius in the 5th and Leo rising.

Neptune is associated with faith and religion and the 3rd with education. At age



seven, Kate was sent to a Church of England school. Restless Mercury rules the cusp of
her 3rd house, and the family moved home six times during Kate’s growing-up years.
When she was eleven, they moved from a large town to a tiny village where she
experienced enormous problems adjusting. In true Neptunian fashion, Kate wanted to
fit in and be part of something, and yet this constantly eluded her. She reminisced:

I wouldn’t even open my mouth in school because my accent was different from
everyone else in the class. When I did speak, nobody could understand me.
Nobody knew I was intelligent even though I always did well in exams.

With Neptune, the planet of mystery, in the house of education, Kate was a mystery to
the other girls at school.

Later in life, Kate’s 3rd house Neptune manifested in psychic powers: she has the
ability to ‘pick up on’ other people’s thoughts and admits to ‘seeing things around me
that others just don’t see’. She has experienced telepathic contact and communication
with people at a distance (Neptune rules Pisces on the 9th house cusp). She also freely
confesses to daydreaming (Neptune in the 3rd) about all the places she would love to
visit (Pisces on the cusp of the 9th).

Her second husband brought out the link between Neptune in the 3rd and Pisces in
the 8th (what is shared between people). He constantly lied to her about important
things. She said:

His lying and deceit took me to the depths of despair. I thought I was going
insane. But it was that experience which indirectly led me to the acceptance of my
psychic gifts – I could always tell when he was not being truthful. I knew when
he had a car accident 250 miles away and I ‘saw’ his supposedly dead daughter
who turned out to be very much alive and exactly as I had ‘seen’ her.

Kate feels that all the pain in her growing-up years and problems at school have
contributed to her desire to want to help others who are suffering. This attitude reflects
the placement of Chiron, the wounded healer, in the 3rd.

Virgo on the 3rd and Mercury in the 5th suggests that her work (Virgo) could involve
some sort of writing. Besides secretarial jobs in law and advertising, she has done
volunteer work on an audio magazine for blind people. She has written articles for
various journals on metaphysical philosophy and alternative medicine (literally 3rd
house writing about esoteric – Neptunian – things). She also undertook a volunteer
training as a nurse and has studied healing with various teachers. In this sense, she has
studied (3rd house) how to help and rescue (Neptune) others around her.

IC and 4th House
Appropriately with Venus and Libra at the IC (and Neptune conjunct it from the 3rd),
Kate found her father easy to get along with and very easy ‘to get around’. She saw him
as weaker than the mother (Aries on the MC), who covertly dominated him. Kate also



mentioned that she learned a great deal about music and art from her father.
There is a link between the 4th house Venus and Taurus on the cusp of the 11th, the

house of friends. When Kate was fourteen, she had a girlfriend who was three years
older. It turned out that this girl was having an affair with Kate’s father (ruler of the
11th, Venus, in the 4th trine Uranus in the 11th). Her father would come to Kate’s room
at night and sit crying on her bed, because his girlfriend was at the pub with boys her
own age.

Kate’s Moon in Scorpio squared to Pluto describes the uncomfortable undercurrents
in the home stemming from her hen-pecked father’s infidelity. He actually told Kate
that he was waiting to divorce her mother until Kate had finished school. Apparently
inheriting (4th house) some of her father’s sense of being caged by women, Kate is not
comfortable in her own female body and feels tied down by the mothering role herself.
In many ways, she is still fighting her father’s battle to break free of the ‘restricting
feminine’ shown by the Moon squared to Pluto, widely inconjunct Uranus, and ruling
Cancer on the 12th house cusp of unresolved issues from the past.

The 4th house is how we end things, and the Moon in Scorpio squared to Pluto
suggests some traumatic endings. Kate’s first husband died of alcohol and drug
poisoning after they split up. Shortly after she left her second husband he had a mental
breakdown, broke into where she was living, and tried to strangle her.

Yearning for a more ideal home situation (Venus in Libra in the 4th), she dreams of a
‘congenial home – a cottage in Cornwall where I feel that I belong’ and is hopeful that
some good relationships are yet to come. Recently she has undergone primal therapy to
reconnect with the buried emotions from the past (transiting Pluto and Saturn in the
4th).

5th House
Kate admits that she never really wanted a child and even before she knew she was
pregnant, she was severely depressed and ill (Scorpio on the cusp of the 5th and its
ruling planet, Pluto, squared to the Moon in Scorpio). The baby was conceived in
Africa where she and her first husband, Jim, were living. He was a Catholic and told her
that if difficulties arose during the birth, he would advocate saving the child and
sacrificing the mother. Kate had a strong intuition that both she and the child would die
if she had the baby in Africa. Unconsciously trying to provoke a split, she argued and
fought with her husband during the pregnancy and flew back to England to have the
baby (Sagittarius in the 5th – long journeys associated with childbirth). The English
hospital was well-equipped for emergencies, and in the end she needed a vacuum
extraction. The Sun trine to Pluto and the Sagittarian influence in the 5th suggests her
capacity to escape from danger.

The Scorpio/Sagittarius combination in the 5th reflects a split in Kate: one part of
her is depressive, cynical, and sometimes suicidal (Scorpio in the 5th ruled by Pluto in
the 1st), while another part is optimistic, philosophical, and full of abiding hope (Sun in
Sagittarius in the 5th). But the Sun in Sagittarius does not come into its own without a
struggle against the darker forces which beckon her to ‘end it all’. In a serious tone, she



told me: ‘I feel that the near-death in childbirth was a rebirth into a higher level of
awareness, although it took many years for this to come through.’

Sally was born with Jupiter in the 12th house (she was conceived abroad) and Pluto
in the 1st (reflecting Kate’s 1st house Pluto and Scorpionic 5th). Kate feels that she is,
at present, in a tight bind with Sally: she has brought her up to be independent and free-
thinking and yet cannot accept many of the things her daughter wants to do. This
conflict mirrors the tension between fearful and controlling Scorpio in the 5th and
liberal, easy-going Sagittarius there.

Kate’s early environment was not conducive to play. The Scorpionic 5th house and
the Moon squared to Pluto suggest an atmosphere where so much was kept hidden and
under the surface that it felt dangerous and risky to let go and be spontaneous.
Consequently, much of Kate’s innate creativity (shown by the Sun and Mercury in
Sagittarius in the 5th) was suppressed and undeveloped. It was only after she left her
second husband that she began experimenting with making collages and then writing –
what Kate felt was an ‘important breakthrough’. Eventually, her spare-time pursuits
(5th) became much more meaningful than the secretarial work she did to earn a living.
At the age of thirty-two, she enrolled in college to broaden and expand her mental
capacities. Only then did she realize she was intelligent.

The 5th is associated with romance, and with the Sun there, her romantic
involvements could contribute to her sense of identity and worth as a person. Kate told
me: ‘It was also through love affairs that I discovered I was capable – the men I met
seemed to have so much confidence and faith in me – they believed in me.’ The Sun in
the 5th trines Pluto in the 1st and her identity was transformed through some of these
relationships. Uranus is transiting her 5th house at present [1985] and she is utilizing
and expanding more of her talents and skills. Recently she said, ‘I am fed up with being
surrounded by people who don’t know there is a real me in there, who also has needs.’

With the Sun in the 5th ruling her Ascendant, her way to the ‘real me’ is through
freeing her positivity, joy and self-expression. In order to do this, she first has to release
and transmute the deep pain, doubts and fears suggested by Scorpio on the cusp of the
5th and Pluto in the 1st squared to the Moon in Scorpio in the 4th. She remarked:

Every time an avenue is blocked, or appears to be, it continually throws me back
into uncertainty and pain. I try to rearrange the pieces yet again and come up with
an answer which will show me a way out for the future.

6th House
With Capricorn on the 6th, Kate admits that she has lessons to learn in handling the
routine requirements of everyday life: ‘I’m not good at running everyday affairs – I
always pay the red electricity bill and keep losing important papers.’ Although she
generally relates well with co-workers, she has recently had difficulties with a friend
with whom she leads healing groups. (Saturn rules the 6th and is in the 11th, the house
of friends, conjunct fiery Mars.)

Since Saturn is in the dual sign of Gemini, there is a suggestion of two jobs. As



already mentioned, her part-time work involves healing and counselling but her daily
bread is earned through secretarial work. She feels that it will be in the second half of
life that she ‘comes into her real work’ (slow Capricorn on the cusp of the 6th).

The 6th house of health is linked to the house of groups (ruler of the 6th in the 11th),
indicative of her participation in healing groups and circles. She has devised various
visualization exercises that people can use to facilitate the self-healing process. In terms
of her own health, she notices that her back and shoulders go rigid when she is feeling
strained and uptight (Saturn rules the muscular framework of the body and Gemini is
associated with the arms and shoulders). Skin problems (Saturn) continue to plague her,
which may be a sign that something she is holding in wants to be released. Capricorn
rules the knees, and at the age of six she fell down some steps and badly scraped her
knee. An infection set in, and she still bears a scar there.

Descendant and 7th House
With free-thinking Aquarius on the cusp of the 7th and its rulers, Saturn and Uranus, in
the forward-looking 11th house, her attitude towards relationship needs to extend
beyond a wholly conventional framework. It would be difficult for her to remain in a
partnership merely for reasons of security or out of a sense of duty: ‘I’d rather be alone
than with someone I don’t fit with. It has to be someone I enjoy being with – a mental
thing.’ (Both the rulers of the 7th are in the mental, communicative sign of Gemini in
the 11th house of friends.)

While all but one of the other girls in the village school she attended managed to
become pregnant and engaged in their last year there, Kate resisted going along with the
crowd: ‘Getting pregnant and rushing into marriage was the last thing I wanted.’
Eventually she befriended Jim who worked as a merchant marine. The relationship was
unusual (Aquarius on the Descendant) – he was so long away at sea, they hardly saw
each other. In time they were married. They both liked to travel, and when Jim was
offered a job in Africa, they went there to live. In true Uranian fashion (ruler of the 7th),
marriage took Kate from the Midlands to exotic Africa. The day she landed at the
airport to join her husband who was already there, a revolution broke out in the country.
The honeymoon was over. She told me: ‘By the time we were in Africa in the middle of
a civil war, it was a bit late to realize I was living with a stranger.’ Aquarius and its ruler
Uranus in the 11th are both associated with collective upheavals of a political nature,
and this was the backdrop to her marriage situation. Their troubles multiplied when he
started drinking and she became pregnant with Sally. She felt trapped by him (Sun
opposition Uranus, the ruler of the 7th). She came back to England to have the baby,
and six months later Jim died.

Two years later she met Bob, her second husband. Although Bob legally adopted
Sally, he became jealous of the attention Kate gave to the baby, and he resented her
doing anything without him. Transiting Neptune was conjuncting her Sun in the 5th at
the time and opposing her natal Uranus, the co-ruler of the 7th. Bob was a shift-worker
and he expected her to adjust totally to his needs. ‘If he was at work, I was expected to
stay at home. And when he was at home sleeping during the day, he wanted me at home



as well. He even bought the food so I didn’t have any reason to leave the house.’ One
day, she caught him beating Sally. When Kate announced that she could take no more,
he beat her up and kept her and the baby prisoner in the house for a week. (Both rulers
of the 7th, Saturn and Uranus, are conjunct Mars – suggestive of the violence Kate
attracted.) Finally, Bob went to work to collect his pay, and Kate escaped with the baby
and some belongings.

Looking back on the break-up of her second marriage, she commented, ‘Certainly
my spiritual awakening began when I was totally in despair from that experience.’
(Transiting Neptune conjunct the Sun opposing the 7th house ruler, Uranus, which is
natally trine to Neptune and sextile Pluto.) She realized that until she more fully
defended her own needs and wants she would trap herself into relationships which were
doomed to violence and failure. ‘I had to learn to stand alone after that.’ She swung to
the other extreme and didn’t want anyone close to her.

As the south node in the 7th suggests, trying to derive her identity solely by being
somebody’s wife was not going to work for her. She took a deep breath and willingly
stepped into her north node in Leo in the 1st.

8th House
The 8th house is a continuation of the 7th, denoting what is shared between partners,
and the issues that intimacy evokes. Because both rulers of Kate’s 8th house cusp,
Saturn and Uranus, are conjunct Mars, we can expect that sparks will fly. Until she
could honour and respect her own power, she projected it onto her husbands and then
had to fight with them to wrench it back.

Saturn, a co-ruler of the 8th house of the partner’s money, is sextile to Jupiter in the
2nd. When her first husband died, she used the money from his life insurance policy to
buy a house. Her second husband spent all the marriage trying to get his hands on that
money. But Kate kept the house in her own name, remarking it was ‘one of my few
sensible actions during that time’.

The finality of the endings of the relationships is shown by Uranus, another co-ruler
of the 8th, sextile to her 1st house Pluto. The 8th house is also associated with what is
subtle, mysterious and hidden in life. Saturn and Uranus, the co-rulers of Aquarius on
her 8th house cusp, are both placed in the 11th house of groups. This suggests her link
with a spiritualist church and her association with various psychic and healing circles,
where ‘I found myself accepted for what I was and valued for my “strange powers”,
which could then be shared with others.’

Some of Pisces is also in the 8th and its ruler Neptune is in Libra in the 3rd, but very
near the IC. Again, this reveals her abilities as a medium – she registers and ‘takes in’
the hidden feelings of other people. Neptune’s placement near the 3rd/4th cusp and its
link to Pisces in the 8th house of intimacy also suggest that unresolved dilemmas from
her growing-up years will infiltrate later close involvements. As already mentioned, she
was still fighting her father’s battle to free himself from the restrictions of a wife and
children. In her relationships, all the charged undercurrents which polluted the
atmosphere of the early home clamoured to be brought to the surface and examined.



The issue of freedom versus restriction in relationship plagued both her marriages until
she succeeded in acknowledging her own rights as a person. She kept recreating the
past in order to free herself from it.

9th House
With the ruler of the 9th, Neptune, in the 3rd house of the mind, her thoughts will
naturally turn to religion and philosophy. When Kate went back to college (9th house),
she took a Religious Studies course, and wrote a thesis on spiritualism. In true Piscean
fashion, she dreams of the time her life assurance policy comes to fruition and she can
use the money to travel around the world, visiting the sacred sites of Egypt and other
faraway lands.

Some of Aries is in the 9th house, and its ruler Mars is conjunct Uranus. She has
brushes with Mars and Uranus on long journeys. As the plane she was on landed in
Africa, it flew over jeeps and tanks coming to close the airport. Just as a plane she was
on had left Athens airport, another plane blew up on the runway.

Aries in the 9th is also shown in the way Kate learned to stand up for herself at
college (something she had never done earlier in school). When her tutor, an ordained
minister, commented that he thought ‘spiritual healing’ was rubbish because he didn’t
know anyone who had been healed in that way, Kate sharply retorted with ‘How long
has your ignorance been the criteria for judgement?’ The ruler of Aries is conjunct
Uranus and Saturn and opposition Mercury.

MC and 10th House
Kate’s mother was bursting with tension and anger (Mars, ruler of MC conjunct
Uranus) and yet kept denying anything was wrong (Mars conjunct Saturn). Mother’s
rule was that nothing threatening should be talked about or discussed (Mars, ruler of the
MC is in Gemini conjunct Saturn). She tried to control and dominate Kate and the rest
of the family so that they wouldn’t do anything to upset her. In the end, Kate left home
(and the country) as soon as she could, and her father finally left home to live with
another woman. After seventeen years’ separation, Kate’s mother still tells people that
her husband is coming back to her, and refuses to grant a divorce. This attitude reflects
the tenacity of the MC ruler, Mars, sandwiched between Saturn and Uranus, and the
refusal to accept change.

The ruler of the MC is conjunct the co-rulers of the 7th, linking the house of the
mother with the house of marriage. Kate kept attracting men who tried to dominate her
in the same way that her mother had done. Perhaps she was hoping to repeat the past in
order to change and resolve the old tension with the mother: to turn a controlling person
into someone more flexible and giving. Twice failing to do this, each time she had to
again break free of the restrictive mother/husband figure. Having become conscious of
this pattern through self-analysis and some therapy, she is no longer unconsciously
bound to its repetition. At last accepting herself, she is no longer compelled to find a
monster whom she must convert and cajole into someone who accepts her as she is.

As Kate grows more confident, her Aries Midheaven becomes increasingly obvious.



She told me that following college she was able to talk herself into a job for which she
didn’t have the proper qualifications. It was in advertising and public relations, and she
turned out to excel at the work in spite of her lack of experience. However, she had
conflict with the Aries boss who demanded that she go to bed with him (Aries on the
cusp of the 10th, the house of authority figures). According to Kate, he believed that if a
woman worked for him, he owned her. She mimicked his words: ‘No woman has ever
said no to me, you are not going to be the first.’ Having discovered her own rights and
authority and her own Aries Midheaven, she was the first.

The ruler of the Midheaven is in Gemini and her work has always involved
secretarial duties and writing. In the past few years, she has started leading some
weekend seminars with a friend in various techniques of healing (ruler of the MC in the
11th). At first, she was shy and thought her friend was the one who knew more. Now
Kate admits that she, herself, has something important to teach and communicate.
Although other people had often seen her as strong and capable, she has finally fully
‘owned’ this side to her personality. Synchronously, more and more people are
approaching her for help and guidance. She looks all set to eventually establish herself
full time in the counselling and healing profession, in which she can be her own boss
(Aries on the 10th, and Mars conjunct Uranus).

11th House
Saturn and Uranus in the 11th reflect the duality which Kate meets in the sphere of
friendship: ‘I have two entirely different groups of friends who would probably never
get along with each other. At parties we actually have two shifts to accommodate them
both.’ One group mirrors Saturn – they are conventional and straight-laced; the other
group comprises her Uranian friends – those who are involved in some form of
alternative healing, psychology or spiritualism. Sometimes it is her friends who push
her into new things, but at other times, Kate acts as the catalyst for changes in them
(Mars and Uranus in the 11th). Mercury in the 5th opposes the Mars and Uranus in the
11th and occasionally she has ‘rip-roaring’ philosophical battles with her friends, some
of which result in the termination of the relationship. Taking a Uranian stand, Kate told
me: ‘It’s usually that they cannot accept my right to my own viewpoint and try to force
theirs on me. I don’t really care what anyone believes so long as they also respect my
rights to my beliefs.’ She admits the need to ‘occasionally administer a kick up the
backside to my friends, which blasts them into a new orbit.’

Many of her friends are people she has met through work (Saturn in the 11th rules
the 6th house of work, and Mars in the 11th rules the 10th house of career). Recalling
the connection between the 11th house of social reform and the 6th and 10th houses of
work, she is often the spokesperson standing up for injustices in the office. However,
she adds that ‘even when I try to assert myself and apparently succeed, disaster follows
on.’ (Mars is caught between Saturn and Uranus.) She once convinced a boss that the
work he was giving her was not what she had been contracted to do. Feeling it was
indescribably boring and a waste of her abilities, she confronted him with her
objections. He totally agreed with her, and then a few weeks later sacked her from the



job.
With Saturn in the 11th and ‘lazy’ Venus in Libra ruling Taurus on the cusp, she

confesses to having difficulty setting goals – ‘I often just fall into whatever comes
along.’ Clearer about her long-term objectives than her immediate aims, she knows she
wants a healing centre cum home in Cornwall but that ‘it will take a long time to realize
that dream’. (Venus in the 4th house of the home rules the 11th house of goals and
groups.) Right now, her greatest interest and enthusiasm comes through the groups she
is running, although ‘each one is an enormous challenge which stretches me
considerably’. The 11th house is the desire to become greater than we already are:
Saturn there is frightened of expanding her boundaries, but Mars and Uranus must take
up the challenge. Via Mars and Uranus in the 11th house of groups and friends, Kate
has tapped a vast resource of energy, authority and power. She has come a long way
from the quiet girl who was afraid to open her mouth at school.

12th House
When Kate explored some regression and rebirthing exercises with a therapist, she
experienced the womb as a hateful place in which she felt trapped and imprisoned. This
recollection reflects the Moon in Scorpio ruling Cancer on the cusp of the 12th squared
by Pluto and inconjunct Uranus. As already mentioned, she was six weeks late being
born and the space available in the womb must have become tighter and smaller – what
she described in her rebirthing session as ‘a hostile environment’. The 12th house
indicates feelings that are in the back of our mind before we are born. Right from life in
the womb (as the difficultly aspected Moon ruling the 12th suggests) Kate was not
comfortable with the situation in which she was placed, and yet didn’t assert herself to
get out. Later on, her own tendency to hold herself back finds a good ‘hook’ in the
repressive domination of her frightened mother. Symbolized by the regressive 4th house
Moon in Scorpio inconjuncted by freedom-loving Uranus in Gemini in the 11th, it is not
so much the actual mother Kate had to release herself from, but rather that part of her
own self which wouldn’t let her be free. Her conflict between holding back and pushing
forward is also mirrored by the father’s dilemma between staying with the wife and
family or establishing a new life with his mistress (the ruler of the 12th is in the 4th –
the house of the father).

Cancer on the cusp of the 12th is another indication of Kate’s psychic abilities.
Although neither her mother nor father professed to having such proclivities, both her
grandmothers dabbled in spiritualism. As shown by the ruler of the 12th in the 4th, Kate
inherited her psychic and healing faculties. The 12th house ruler, the Moon, in square to
Pluto depicts the struggle Kate had in accepting these gifts – though, in doing so, her
life has been transformed. Having freed something intrinsic to her nature, it is not
surprising that the 5th house Sun in Sagittarius ruling Leo on her Ascendant compels
her to enlighten and help others in this way.

Kate was recently in a car accident in which she was pinned to the wreckage by her
seat belt and couldn’t release herself. She wrote in a letter about the incident:



The experience with the car seems to exactly fit my life. I feel trapped, blocked,
helpless, powerless to move, and oh so anxious to get out … a knight in almost
shining armour rescued me that time, now I feel I need to do it myself.

After such a 12th house experience, we arrive, full circle, back to heroic Leo on the
Ascendant.



CONCLUDING THOUGHTS

Astrology cannot make a man’s choice for him any more than a road map, of its own
volition, can choose whether or not one will undertake a journey.

Liz Greene   

An apple tree ‘knows’ that it is meant to bear apples. It does this without striving or
making great effort, but simply as an expression of its inner nature. Like the apple tree,
each human being, on some deep level, knows what he or she is ‘supposed to become’.
But unlike apple trees, we have lost touch with this knowledge. Consequently, we are
disconnected from our own natures and from the totality of life.

Properly understood, astrology provides us with the symbolic framework through
which to rediscover the basic principles and patterns that govern and describe our own
unique development. If we listen, the chart can ‘tell’ us what ‘we should know about
ourselves but have become too civilized to discern.’1

You have probably read through your different house placements and are considering
and digesting what has been written in this book. Or you are concerned how to apply
what you have read to those close to you or to clients. Whatever the case, the more you
discover in yourself, the more you can see in others.

The birthchart helps us to become aware of what we could be. But the choice to act
is ours alone. The chart can’t do this for us. And, in the words of a Japanese proverb,
‘To know and not to act, is not to know at all.’

It might be helpful to reflect on this old Jewish story:

The Hasidic rabbi, Susya, shortly before his death said ‘When I get to heaven,
they will not ask me, “Why were you not Moses?” Instead, they will ask, “Why
were you not Susya? Why did you not become what only you could become?”’

Why don’t you become what only you can become?

Notes – Concluding Thoughts
1. Liz Greene, ‘Cycles of Psychic Growth’, Wrekin Trust Lecture 64, 1977, p. 6.



APPENDIX 1.
THE TWELVE HOUSES: A SUMMARY OF KEY

CONCEPTS

Ascendant and 1st House (naturally associated with Mars and Aries)
That facet of universal being which seeks to express itself through each of us.
The lens through which we perceive the world.
The focus we bring into life.
The kinds of functions most valuable in discovering our unique identity.
Our relationship to the archetype of initiation – how we get things started.
The experience of our birth and the way we enter new phases of life.
How we meet life in general.
The atmosphere of the early environment.
The effect we have on others.
The quest on which the hero embarks.
Some indication of physical vitality and physical appearance.

2nd House (naturally associated with Venus and Taurus)
The differentiation of the body out of the universal matrix of life.
The awareness that mother’s body is not our own.
The attachment of our identity to the body (the body-ego).
The forging of a more solid sense of ‘I’ or personal ego.
Giving the self more definition, boundary, and shape.
Our innate wealth.
Inherent faculties or capabilities which we can develop further.
Resources or attributes which give us a sense of value or worth.
What constitutes security for a person.
Things to which we attach ourselves.
What we possess or hope to possess.
Money and the material world – our relationship and attitude to these things.
What we value.
The desire-nature.

3rd House (naturally associated with Mercury and Gemini)
The differentiation of the mind from the body (the mental ego).
The development of language and the ability to distinguish subject from object, actor
from the action performed.
The concrete mind, or left-brain processes.



How we use our mind – our mental style.
Exploring the immediate environment.
Naming and classifying things.
The discovery of relativity: how do we compare to what is around us? How do these
things compare and relate to one another?
The general context through which we view the immediate environment.
Siblings – our bond with them. What siblings are like. What we project onto them.
Other relatives – uncles, aunts, cousins.
Neighbours.
The early school experience.
All forms of communication – writing, speaking, information exchange.
Short journeys.
The growing-up years in general (roughly ages 7 to 14).

The Imum Coeli and 4th House (naturally associated with the Moon and Cancer)
Self-reflective consciousness and the assimilation of experiences from the first three
houses.
The integration of mind, body and feelings around a central ‘I’.
A sense of the ‘me-in-here’ who is experiencing and doing.
The maintenance of the individual characteristics of the self in a stable form.
What we find when we retreat back into ourselves.
Our inner base of operation.
The home.
What we are like in private.
The roots of the being.
The soul as intermediary between ourselves and events.
The influence on us of our family of origin.
The atmosphere in the early home and early conditioning.
Qualities we carry which stem from our racial or ethnic origins.
The influence of the ‘hidden parent’ – usually the father.
The inborn image of the parent in question.
How we end things.
Conditions surrounding the end of life.

5th House (naturally associated with the Sun and Leo)
The urge to distinguish ourselves as unique and special.
The urge to expand and extend our territory of influence.
The desire to be central, to have something revolve around us.
Generativity, the ability to produce.
The outpouring of the self and the urge for creative self-expression.
Artistic expression.
Those pursuits which make us glad to be alive, which engage our heart and whole
being.



Recreation, hobbies, spare-time amusements, pleasures, sporting events, gambling
and speculation.
Romance – what kind of person ignites us and what happens during love-affairs.
Sex – the ability to attract other people to us and please them.
The joy we feel being loved.
Children, the physical extension of the self.
What our children are like, or what we project onto them.
The inner child in us.
Play.
Personal flair.

6th House (naturally associated with Mercury and Virgo)
Further refinement and differentiation of the self.
Characterizing the self by how we differ from other people.
Reducing things to parts (left brain).
Discrimination and selectivity.
Assessing the use we make of our power, energy and capabilities.
The relationship between what we are inside and what surrounds us on the outside;
the correlation between the inner world of mind and feelings and the outer world of
form and the body.
The bodymind connection.
The adjustment to necessity and living life within boundaries.
Mundane everyday reality, daily rituals.
Our relationship to servants, hired help, employees.
Our own qualities as a server.
How we approach work and our relationship to co-workers.
Craftsmanship, attention to detail, perfection and technical proficiency.
Relationships of inequality.
Health issues: the nature of physical problems and underlying psychological
significance of certain illnesses.

Descendant and 7th House (naturally associated with Venus and Libra)
Reconnecting the ‘I’ to the ‘not-I’.
The kinds of activities which provide us with the realization of the significance of
others.
Relationships based on mutual commitment, legal or otherwise.
The marriage partner or ‘significant other’.
The kind of partner to whom we are attracted.
What we wish to import from others.
What in ourselves we project onto a partner.
What we bring into relationship.
Open enemies: what we see in other people that we don’t like in ourselves.
The general atmosphere in close relationships.



How we meet society.
The process of collectivization and socialization.
The lower courts.
How much do I blend and co-operate versus how much do I assert my individuality?

8th House (naturally associated with Pluto and Scorpio)
That which is shared between people.
Other people’s money.
How we fare financially in marriage or business partnerships.
Inheritance, legacy, taxation, banking, accountancy, investments, etc.
How the partner’s value system interacts with our own.
What happens when two people are intimately connected and attempt to merge with
one another.
Relationships as catalysts for change.
Destroying old ego-boundaries and opening new ones.
Periods of cleansing and renewal.
The drawing to the surface of unresolved issues from early bonding relationships
through present relationships.
The raising of what is ‘dark’, instinctual and passionate in us.
The raging infant in us.
Containing and transforming raw, primordial energy.
Sex as a means of transcending the separate-self sense.
Divorce proceedings.
Death: physical death or the death of an ego-identity.
How we die and meet transitions.
The discovery of that which is indestructible in us.
Self-regeneration.
Our sensitivity to the eco-system and the sharing of the resources of the planet.
The astral plane – our sensitivity to invisible or intangible planes of existence.

9th House (naturally associated with Jupiter and Sagittarius)
The search for meaning, purpose, direction and guidelines in life.
Seeking the truth and fathoming the underlying patterns and laws which govern
existence.
The higher mind, intuitive thought processes and the workings of the right brain.
The ability to imbue an event with significance and the symbol-making capacity of
the psyche.
The style in which we pursue religious and philosophical issues.
The god-image.
What pulls us forward.
Viewing life at a distance.
Travel and long journeys.
Our view of life’s journey.



Journeys of the mind and higher education.
Codified systems of collective thought.
The dissemination of ideas – teaching, publishing, preaching and promotional work.
The higher courts.
The ability to sense the direction in which something is heading.
Relationship to in-laws.
A possible indication of career.

The MC and 10th House (naturally associated with Saturn and Capricorn)
The integration of the self into society.
Fulfilment of the individual personality through serving and influencing society.
Profession, vocation, and career – our office and status in life.
How we approach work.
The atmospheric conditions we encounter in the sphere of career.
How we wish to be seen to be working.
What we wish to be remembered for contributing to the world.
Our style before the public and the image we wish to promote.
Needs for achievement, recognition and praise.
Ambition.
The image of the ‘shaping parent’ (usually the mother).
The connection between our relationship to mother and the way we relate to the
world later in life.
What we feel the world/mother requires of us.
Our attitude to authority figures and the government.

11th House (naturally associated with Saturn, Uranus and Aquarius)
The urge to become something greater than what we already are, to move beyond
existing images of the self.
The identification with something larger than the self.
Circles of friends, types of friends, how we behave with friends, and what we project
onto them.
Groups, systems, organizations.
The nature of groups we join, our role in groups, how we feel in the group, what we
project onto groups.
Our sensitivity to new trends and currents in the atmosphere.
Social reform and causes.
Goals, objectives, hopes and wishes.
What we encounter when pursuing our aims.
Group consciousness and the inter-connectedness of all life.
The global super-organism, global brain and group mind.

12th House (naturally associated with Neptune and Pisces)
The yearning to return to the original state of unity.



Sacrificing the separate-self sense to merge with something greater and yet fearing
the dissolution of boundaries.
Nebulousness, confusion, empathy and compassion.
Escapist tendencies.
Meditation and prayer.
Immersion in alcohol and drugs and other substitute gratifications for wholeness.
Service – to others, causes, beliefs or to God.
Behind-the-scenes activity, unconscious patterns and complexes.
Being swept away by unconscious compulsions.
Hidden enemies, external or internal saboteurs.
Influences from causes or sources we don’t always remember.
The umbilical effect and life in the womb.
Karma, what we bring over from past lives.
Energies which sustain or undo us.
Access to the collective unconscious, mythic images and the imaginal realm.
The unconscious as a storehouse of the past but also as the reservoir of future
possibilities.
How we fare or what we meet in hospitals, prisons, museums, libraries and other
institutions.
Some indication of career.
What we feel will redeem us – what we hope will give us immortality.



APPENDIX 2.
THE QUESTION OF HOUSE-DIVISION

The only true absolute is that there are no absolutes. 

Irvin Yalom

Astrologers disagree with one another over many issues, but most frequently about the
houses. They squabble over the exact number of houses there should be and whether
these ought to be counted clockwise or anti-clockwise. Some argue that cusps belong in
the middle of a house, not at the beginning. Others insist that there is no justification for
houses at all. But the fiercest battle raging over the houses is the question of which
system should be used to divide them.

A properly controlled statistical study of the various systems is necessary but
conducting such research is not easy. Reliable birth-times and accurate calculations
would have to be ensured. Although planets sometimes change houses in different
systems, it is still very tricky to validate that one placement ‘fits better’ than another.
The most reliable research would test the correlation of events in a person’s life with
transits, directions and progressions to the house cusps. But there are so many different
techniques of progression that this approach also runs into numerous complications.

Unfortunately, the various astronomical and philosophical issues upon which
dividing the houses is based are so complex and abstruse that even a practised
astrologer holding an honours degree in trigonometry will still have difficulty in
choosing which system is the ‘right’ one. Each has its own merits and disadvantages. It
may be that one method is more appropriate for predicting events, another for a
psychological reading, etc. Teachers can offer some guidance, but ultimately students of
astrology will have to decide for themselves which system of house-division they
prefer. There are certainly enough to choose from. All I can do is present some of the
existing alternatives and briefly introduce the assumptions on which they are based. The
reader is then referred to those books which describe house systems in much greater
detail, listed at the end of the Appendix.

In Natal Charting, John Filbey classifies the most important of the twenty-five or so
existing systems under three headings: the ecliptic systems, the space systems and the
time systems. I will follow suit, giving a few examples of each.

The Ecliptic Systems
In these methods of house-division, the house cusps are determined by divisions of the
ecliptic, the apparent path of the Sun around the Earth. The four best known of these are



the Equal House System, the Porphyry House System, the Natural Graduation House
System and the M-House Method. Let’s look more closely at two of these.

The Equal House System
Equal House is the most popular and oldest (stemming from 3000 bc) of the Ecliptic
Systems, recently promoted by Margaret Hone, Robert Pelletier and others.
Mathematically, it is very simple. Starting from the Ascending degree, the ecliptic is
divided into twelve equal houses of thirty degrees each. Because the meridian is hardly
ever exactly perpendicular to the horizon, the MC-IC axis does not usually coincide
with the cusps of the 10th and 4th houses, as in most other systems. However, Equal
House advocates still recognize the MC and IC by noting these points in the chart.

The beauty of this method is its simplicity. Proponents praise the way it clearly
reflects the twelvefold division of the signs of the zodiac. Hone and Holden both stress
that ‘the houses grew out of the signs’ and therefore it is fitting that the ecliptic should
be similarly divided to form the houses.1 Hone, pleased that the Equal House System
avoids the problem of intercepted houses, commends its ‘great convenience’ in making
aspects easier to find.2 Pelletier, arguing in favour of this system, writes, ‘It seems
superfluous to demand mathematical or astronomical precision of a frame of reference
for houses that is purely symbolic.’3

Rudhyar is infuriated by the Equal House Method, feeling it over-emphasizes the
horizon at the expense of the equally important vertical meridian axis, as if it considers
‘lying down the only significant position for man’.4 Freeman also feels Equal House
threatens the significance of the MC by allowing ‘it to fall where it will’.5 Similarly, Liz
Greene objects to the neglect of the MC-IC axis, to which she attributes the physical
and psychological inheritance passed on by the parents. By not assigning this axis its
proper place, the Equal House System, in her view, neglects the person’s ‘fate’.

For instance, assume that the nonagesimal, or cusp of the 10th house in the Equal
House Method, is in Libra, but the actual MC is in Scorpio. The person may dream of
being a great artist or beauty queen (Libra) but, due to family background, physical
restrictions or practical considerations (MC), is actually better suited to a Scorpio-type
career such as a psychologist or surgeon. In other words, an Equal House chart shows
an internal, idealized image of what we would like to be; but the chart erected using a
Quadrant system (one in which the MC and 10th house cusp coincide) shows what is
actually permitted to us. For this reason, I prefer to use a chart set up by one of the
Quadrant systems.

In his essay, ‘Thoughts on the Use of House Systems’, Michael Munkasey believes
that because the Equal House System emphasizes the ecliptic or Sun’s path, it highlights
the importance of the solar principle – which he defines as the ‘ego or creative self’. He
writes that ‘if you want to emphasize or measure a Sun function, you should use the
equal house or another ecliptic system.’6 Because the ‘houses divided by this system
refer their meaning directly to the Ascendant,’ Michael Meyer suggests that the Equal
House chart enhances an understanding of the significance of the Ascendant in the



person’s life.7

The Porphyry System
Devised in the third century ad, the Porphyry System also uses the ecliptic as its circle
of reference. Like the Equal House Method, the Ascendant is taken to be the cusp of the
1st house, but unlike Equal House, the MC always coincides with the cusp of the 10th.
The other house cusps are determined by trisecting the space between the quadrants into
three equal sections along the ecliptic. The value of this system was that Porphyry
incorporated the four angles into the house cusps. The system is criticized, however,
because there is really no logical reason why the unequal space of the quadrants should
be divided equally. It is not in much use today.

The Space Systems
In the Equal House System and the Porphyry System, the ecliptic was divided to
determine the house cusps. But there is no particular reason why the ecliptic should be
chosen over other possible circles of the celestial sphere. The basis of the Space
Systems is to take another great circle – such as the celestial equator, the horizon or the
prime vertical – divide it into twelve equal parts and project these divisions onto the
ecliptic. Some of the Space Systems are the Campanus House System, the
Regiomontanus House System, the Morinus House System and the East Point House
System. Let’s look at the two most popular of these.

The Campanus House System
The inventor of this system, Johannes Campanus, was a well-known mathematician of
the thirteenth century. While he accepted Porphyry’s idea that the four angles of the
chart should coincide with the 1st, 4th, 7th and 10th house cusps, he looked around for
something other than the ecliptic as the main frame of reference. He chose the prime
vertical, a great circle which passes through the east and west points of the horizon as
well as the zenith (the point in the heavens immediately overhead at any place) and the
nadir (the point opposite to the zenith). Campanus divided the prime vertical into equal
segments of thirty degrees each. The great circles which passed through these points
and the north and south points of the horizon formed the house boundaries.

By selecting the prime vertical rather than the ecliptic as his primary focus,
Campanus broke with the tradition of always using the apparent orbit of the Sun and the
planets (the ecliptic) as the main astrological frame of reference. A precedent was set:
the position of a planet in respect to the horizon and meridian of the place of birth
assumed more significance than the position of the planet along the ecliptic. In other
words, the space around the locality of birth became as important a consideration as the
zodiac itself. Instead of the houses being projected onto the zodiac, the signs and the
planets were now viewed in relation to the houses.

However, the Campanus System (as well as the other space systems) presents a
problem in the higher latitudes where, in this case, the angle of the ecliptic to the prime
vertical becomes more acute. The result is that the longitudinal position of the house



cusps in respect to the ecliptic become more unequal, and the houses greatly distorted.
This difficulty does not arise with the ecliptic systems of house-division. Margaret
Hone is dubious about accepting any system which fails in some part of the world.
Dane Rudhyar is more practical about it and suggests that ‘each hemisphere of the Earth
and the polar regions must have its own kind of astrology.’8

Like Campanus, Rudhyar believes that while the Sun and planets are basic to
astrology, they needn’t be the only essential frame of reference. In his ‘person-centred’
approach to chart interpretation, he uses the Campanus System because it so fully
acknowledges ‘the space at the center of which the individual stands’.9 He proposes that
the Campanus System might even be the basis for the future development of a ‘birth-
sphere’ or three-dimensional birthchart.

The Regiomontanus House System
In the fifteenth century, Johannes Muller, also known as Regiomontanus, modified the
Campanus System. Rather than choosing the prime vertical as his primary frame of
reference, he divided the celestial equator into equal arcs of thirty degrees and projected
these onto the ecliptic. The practical advantage of this system is that it produces less
house distortion in the higher latitudes than the Campanus method. Again, by going
beyond the ecliptic to the great circle of the celestial equator, he put a greater emphasis
on the Earth’s own daily rotation than on the movement of the Earth around the Sun.
This system was very popular until 1800, and is still used by many European
astrologers.

Munkasey proposes that all the space systems, in utilizing other circles beside the
ecliptic, give the chart a lunar influence. By this he means they include ‘some
subconscious aspects of personality development’, personality traits which are not
consciously recognizable.10

The Time Systems
In these systems, the house cusps are found by equally dividing the time it takes for a
chosen point (such as the Ascendant or Midheaven) to travel an arc of the celestial
sphere. The best-known time systems are the Alcabitus House System, the Placidus
House System, the Koch or Birthplace House System and the Topocentric House
System. We will look more closely at three of these.

The Placidus House System
This method was devised by a Spanish monk, Placidus de Titus, in the early
seventeenth century. Mathematically, it is one of the most difficult house systems to
calculate. Put very simply, the 11th and 12th house cusps are found by trisecting the
time it takes any degree of the ecliptic to travel from the Ascendant to the Midheaven
(semi-diurnal arc). Likewise, the time it takes any degree to travel from the IC to the
Ascendant (semi-nocturnal arc) is trisected to give the 2nd and 3rd house cusps.

At first, the system was opposed by astrologers because of its time-based factor.
However, Geoffrey Dean points out that it is no more based on time than any other



system, ‘because all systems can be described in terms of the division of time.’11 The
system eventually achieved great popularity, helped by the fact that the nineteenth-
century astrologer Raphael published an almanac including a Placidean table of houses.

The main problem with this system arises from the fact that in latitudes greater than
sixty-six-and-a-half degrees, many degrees never touch the horizon at all. In other
words, in these high latitudes certain degrees of the ecliptic can never become the
Ascendant. The whole system is based on the time it takes for a degree to move from
the Ascendant to the Midheaven. If a certain degree never rises, no time-interval can be
determined, and therefore this degree cannot form the cusp of any house.

Munkasey writes that the Placidus System is ‘good for emphasizing overall life
goals.’ He also notes that this system provides ‘meaningful timing answers in horary
and electional astrology.’12 Martin Freeman prefers the time-based systems ‘because
astrology is so intimately involved with time.’13 Zipporah Dobyns, Liz Greene,
Christina Rose and Darby Costello, leading ‘psychological astrologers’, use this system
and are satisfied with its results. Whatever its strengths and failings, more astrologers
use the Placidus Method than any other form of house-division.

The Koch System (Birthplace House System)
The first tables for this method were published in 1971. Its author, Dr Walter Koch,
proclaimed that at long last a solution had been found to the problem of house-division.
The system is based on a ‘time dynamic’, evaluating the position of all points on the
ecliptic in respect to the Ascendant and the birthplace. The trigonometry involved is
complex, using the arc of oblique ascension (small circle which marks the path of a
planet during its twenty-four hours of motion) of the place of birth.

Although Koch claims that his system is the only method which calculates the chart
for the exact birthplace, Dona Marie Lorenz contends that Koch’s methods are ‘no more
birthplace centred than any method that utilises the longitude, latitude, and time of the
event for calculating the houses.’14 Like the Placidean method, it fails at the polar
regions.

The German astrologer Edith Wangemann is a keen advocate of the Koch System.
She tested it against other methods of house-division and found that it was the most
consistently accurate in correlating facial features with the cusps of the chart.15

Munkasey believes that the system is exceptionally good for determining ‘where you
are and where you are going, your current choices.’16

The Topocentric House System
This system is a further refinement of the Placidus Method. (Below fifty degrees of
latitude, the house cusps are within one degree of the Placidean cusps.) Again, the
trigonometry is complicated, and the reader should refer to the books mentioned at the
end of the Appendix. What makes this system so interesting, however, is that it is the
only one which has not been derived theoretically. Rather, it was devised through an
empirical study of the nature and timing of events. Based in Argentina, Wendel Polich



and A. P. Nelson Page studied the events in the life of a person whose birth-time was
known precisely. House cusps were determined by plotting the primary directions
which related to these events. The founders discovered that the cusps of these houses
lay on a plane passing through the location of birth, and not on a great circle.

The Topocentric System has been verified by Geoffrey Cornelius and Chester Kemp
in England. Dean reports that a fifteen-year test of this system carried out by Marr
shows that primary directions to Topocentric house cusps successfully correlate with
the events associated with the house.17 This suggests that it is a good system to use for
the timing of events. Another advantage is that no problems occur in the polar region.

A more full and detailed discussion of this system is found in Recent Advances in
Natal Astrology compiled by Geoffrey Dean, published under the aegis of the
Astrological Association of Great Britain in 1977. Excellent explanations of all the
systems mentioned in this appendix as well as some others can be found in Ralph
William Holden’s book, The Elements of House Division, published by Fowler (1977).
Tools of Astrology: Houses by Dona Marie Lorenz, published by Eomega Grove Press
(1973), discusses the various house systems and includes tables of houses for nine of
them. It’s probably best for the beginning student to select one method to start with and
then later experiment with others in deciding which one he or she prefers. There is no
right or wrong system. A photograph of a tree is still a tree no matter what stance you
take it from. The angle you choose, like the house system you select, depends on the
purpose and perspective you have in mind. Life is full of alternatives.

Appendix 2
1. Holden, Elements of House Division, Fowler, London, 1977, p.39.
2. Hone, The Modern Textbook of Astrology, Fowler, London, 1951, p.284.
3. Pelletier, Planets in Houses, Para Research, Maine, 1978, pp. 13-14.
4. Rudhyar, The Astrological Houses, p. 34.
5. Freeman p. 60.
6. Michael Munkasey, ‘Thoughts on the Use of House Systems’, in Pelletier, Planets in

Houses, p. 364.
7. Meyer, p. 121.
8. Rudhyar, The Astrological Houses, p. 34.
9. Op. cit., p. 26.
10. Munkasey, p. 365.
11. Dean, p. 167.
12. Munkasey, pp. 365-6.
13. Freeman, p. 60.
14. Dona Marie Lorenz, Tools of Astrology: Houses, Eomega Grove Press, Topanga,

California, 1973, p. 26.
15. Wangemann cited by Dean, p. 407.
16. Munkasey, p. 366.
17. Dean, p. 174.



NOTES

Introduction
1. St Augustine cited in Irvin Yalom, Existential Psychotherapy, Basic Books, New

York, 1980, p. 280.
2. Carl Rogers quoting Kierkegaard cited in Rowan, The Reality Game, Routledge and

Kegan Paul, London, 1983, p. 62.
3. Rowan, p. 62.
4. Rollo May cited in Yalom, p. 279.
5. Abraham Maslow, Toward A Psychology of Being, Van Nostrand, New York, 1968, p.

5.

Chapter 1
1. Dane Rudhyar, The Astrology of Personality, Servire/Wassenaar, Netherlands, 1963,

p. 223.
2. Dane Rudhyar, The Astrological Houses, Doubleday, New York, 1972, p. 38.
3. Sue Walrond-Skinner, Famuy Therapy, Routledge and Kegan Paul, London, 1976,

pp. 23-4.

Chapter 2
1. Martin Freeman, How to Interpret a Birth Chart, Aquarian Press, Wellingborough,

Northamptonshire, England, 1981, p. 13.
2. Dane Rudhyar, The Astrology of Personality, p. 219.
3. Freeman, p. 59.
4. Dane Rudhyar, The Astrological Houses, title page.
5. Zipporah Dobyns and Nancy Roof, The Astrologer’s Casebook, TIA Publications,

Los Angeles, California, 1973, p. 6.
6. Dane Rudhyar, The Astrological Houses, p. 38.
7. Jean Houston, Creating A Sacred Psychology, Wrekin Trust Cassette No. 81,

Hereford, England.

Chapter 3
1. Arthur Koestler cited in Ken Wilber, The Atman Project, Theosophical Publishing

House, Illinois, USA, 1980, p. 8.
2. Geoffrey Dean, Recent Advances in Natal Astrology, The Astrological Association,

London, 1977, pp. 399-411.
3. Marion March and Joan McEvers, The Only Way to Learn Astrology, Vol. 3, Astro

Computing Services, California, 1982, pp. 211-30.



Chapter 4
1. C. G. Jung, Psychology and Alchemy, Vol. 12, para. 32, Collected Works of Jung,

Princeton, New Jersey, Princeton University Press.

Chapter 5
1. Peter Russell, The Awakening Earth, Routledge and Kegan Paul, London, 1983, p.

103.
2. Wilber, p. 29.
3. Marilyn Ferguson, The Aquarian Conspiracy, Granada, London, 1981, p. 81.

Chapter 6
1. James Hillman, Re-Visioning Psychology, Harper Colophon Books, Harper & Row,

1975, p. IX.
2. Liz Greene, Relating, Coventure Ltd, London, 1977, pp. 201-2.

Chapter 8
1. Fritjof Capra, The Tao of Physics, Fontana/Collins, England, 1981, p. 127.
2. Søren Kierkegaard cited in Rowan, p. 62.
3. Pierre Teilhard de Chardin cited in Ferguson, p. 201.

Chapter 9
1. Michael Meyer, A Handbook for the Humanistic Astrologer, Anchor Books, New

York, 1974, p. 2.
2. Greene, pp. 137-8.
3. Carl Jung, Aion, Routledge and Kegan Paul, London, 1959, p.71.
4. Rabbi Hillel cited in Yalom, p. 367.

Chapter 11
1. Ferguson, p. 82.
2. St Catherine cited in Ferguson, p. 108.

Chapter 13
1. Russell, p. 13.
2. Russell, pp. 106-7.
3. Russell, p. 127.
4. Capra, p. 17.
5. Russell, pp. 174-5.
6. Pierre Teilhard de Chardin cited in Ferguson, p. 52.
7. Russell, p. 82.

Chapter 14
1. Ken Wilber, Up From Eden, Routledge and Kegan Paul, London, 1983, pp. 25-6. See

also Dianne Binnington, The House of Dilemma, Snowhite Imprints, Bristol,



England, 1981.
2. Wilber, Up From Eden, pp. 13-15.
3. Jung cited in Ferrucci, What We May Be, Turnstone Press, Wellingborough,

Northamptonshire, England, 1982, p. 44.
4. Colin Wilson, The Philosopher’s Stone, Warner Paperback Library, New York, 1974,

p. 7.
5. Rollo May cited in Yalom, p. 278.
6. Michel Gauquelin, The Truth About Astrology, Hutchinson, London, 1984, p. 30.

Chapter 15
1. Gauquelin, p. 30.

Chapter 18
1. Thomas Mann cited in Jaffee, The Myth of Meaning, Penguin Books, New York,

1975, p. 30.

Chapter 19
1. William Blake cited by Martin Butlin in William Blake, Tate Gallery Publications,

London, 1978, p. 17.

Chapter 20
1. Sallie Nichols, Jung and the Tarot, Samuel Weiser, Maine, USA, 1980, p. 52.
2. Russell, p. 125.
3. Epictetus cited in Ferrucci, p. 105.
4. Schweitzer cited in Ferrucci, p. 105.
5. Rudhyar, The Astrological Houses, p. 164.

Chapter 21
1. Assagioli cited in Ferrucci, pp. 191-2.

Chapter 24
1. Jean Houston, The Possible Human, L. P. Tarcher, Los Angeles, California, 1982, p.

101.

Chapter 25
1. Jane Malcomson, ‘Uranus and Saturn: Castration and Incest, Part I’, The Astrological

Journal, The Astrological Association, London, Summer, 1982.
2. Rudhyar, The Astrological Houses, p. 198.
3. Naumann, The American Book of Nutrition and Medical Astrology, Astro Computing

Services, California, 1982, p. 9.
4. Laing cited in Shaffer, Humanistic Psychology, Prentice-Hall, New Jersey, USA,

1978, p. 50.
5. Laing cited in Shaffer, p. 56.



6. Liz Greene, The Outer Planets and Their Cycles, CRCS Publications, Reno, Nevada,
1983, p. 57.

7. Liz Greene, The Outer Planets and Their Cycles, p. 57.

Chapter 26
1. Ferguson, p. 435.
2. Yalom, p. 444.
3. Einstein cited in Russell, p. 129.
4. Teilhard de Chardin cited in Ferguson, p. 201.
5. Yalom p.262
6. Ferrucci, p. 188.
7. Teilhard de Chardin cited in Ferguson, p. 71.
8. Jung cited by Jacobi in The Psychology of C.G.Jung, Routledge and Kegan Paul,

London, 1968, pp. 134-5.
9. Wittgenstein cited by Yalom, p. 482.

Chapter 27
1. O. Carl Simonton, Stephanie Simonton, James Creighton, Getting Well Again,

Bantam Books, Toronto, 1981, p. 24.
2. Anthony Storr, Human Aggression, Penguin, London, 1982, p.34.
3. St Augustine cited in M. Montaigne, The Complete Essays of Montaigne, trans.

Donald Frame, Stanford University Press, California, 1965, p. 63.
4. Cicero cited in Montaigne, Complete Essays, p. 56.
5. W. Durant, On the Meaning of Life, Ray Long and Richard Smith, New York, 1932,

pp. 128-9.
6. Maslow cited by Haronian in ‘The Repression of the Sublime’, Psychosynthesis

Research Foundation, New York, 1967.
7. Ferguson, pp. 462-3.
8. Assagioli cited by Keen, ‘The Golden Mean of Assagioli’, in Psychology Today,

December 1974.

Chapter 28
1. Hannah Arendt cited by Yalom, p. 291.
2. Russell, pp. 19-20.

Chapter 29
1. Tony Joseph, ‘Chiron: Archetypal Image of Teacher and Healer’, in Ephemeris of

Chiron, Phenomena Publications, Toronto, 1982, p.9.
2. Eve Jackson, ‘The Wounded Healer’, lecture presented to Astrological Association

Conference of Great Britain, Sept. 1984.
3. Adolf Guggenbühl Craig, Power in the Helping Professions, Spring Publications,

Zurich, 1978, p. 91.



Concluding Thoughts
1. Liz Greene, ‘Cycles of Psychic Growth’, Wrekin Trust Lecture 64, 1977, p. 6.

Appendix 2
1. Holden, Elements of House Division, Fowler, London, 1977, p.39.
2. Hone, The Modern Textbook of Astrology, Fowler, London, 1951, p.284.
3. Pelletier, Planets in Houses, Para Research, Maine, 1978, pp. 13-14.
4. Rudhyar, The Astrological Houses, p. 34.
5. Freeman p. 60.
6. Michael Munkasey, ‘Thoughts on the Use of House Systems’, in Pelletier, Planets in

Houses, p. 364.
7. Meyer, p. 121.
8. Rudhyar, The Astrological Houses, p. 34.
9. Op. cit., p. 26.
10. Munkasey, p. 365.
11. Dean, p. 167.
12. Munkasey, pp. 365-6.
13. Freeman, p. 60.
14. Dona Marie Lorenz, Tools of Astrology: Houses, Eomega Grove Press, Topanga,

California, 1973, p. 26.
15. Wangemann cited by Dean, p. 407.
16. Munkasey, p. 366.
17. Dean, p. 174.



SUGGESTED READING

Alexander, Roy, Chart Synthesis, Aquarian Press, Wellingborough, Northamptonshire,
England, 1984.

Arroyo, Stephen, Astrology, Karma, and Transformation, CRCS Publications,
California, 1978.

Arroyo, Stephen, Astrology, Psychology, and the Four Elements, CRCS Publications,
California, 1978.

Begg, Ean, Myth and Today’s Consciousness, Coventure Ltd, London, 1984.
Binnington, Dianne, The House of Dilemma: A Prospect of the Twelfth House,

Snowhite Imprints, Bristol, England, 1981.
Capra, Fritjof, The Tao of Physics, Fontana/Collins, Suffolk, England, 1981.
Capra, Fritjof, The Turning Point: Science, Society and the Rising Culture, Fontana,

London, 1982.
Dean, Geoffrey, Recent Advances in Natal Astrology, Astrological Association, London,

1977.
Dickson, Anne, A Woman in Your Own Right, Quartet Books, London, 1982.
Ferguson, Marilyn, The Aquarian Conspiracy, Granada, London, 1981.
Ferrucci, Piero, What We May Be, Turnstone Press, Wellingborough, Northamptonshire,

England, 1982.
Freeman, Manin, Forecasting by Astrology, Aquarian Press, Wellingborough,

Northamptonshire, England, 1982.
Gauquelin, Michel, The Truth About Astrology, Hutchinson, London, 1984.
Greene, Liz, Saturn, Samuel Weiser, New York, 1976.
Greene, Liz, Relating, Coventure Ltd, London, 1977.
Greene, Liz, The Outer Planets and Their Cycles, CRCS Publications, Reno, Nevada,

1983.
Greene Liz, The Astrology of Fate, George Allen and Unwin, London, 1984.
Houston, Jean, The Possible Human, J. P. Tarcher, Los Angeles, California, 1982.
Huber, Bruno and Louise, Life Clock: Age Progression in the Horoscope V.I., Samuel

Weiser, York Beach, Maine, 1980.
Kübler-Ross, Elisabeth, On Death and Dying, MacMillan, New York, 1969.
McEvers, Joan and March, Marion, The Only Way to Learn Astrology, Vol. 3, Astro

Computing Services, San Diego, California, 1982.
Malcomson, Jane, ‘Uranus and Saturn: Castration and Incest, Part I’, The Astrological

Journal, Astrological Association, London, Summer 1982.
Mann, A.T., Life Time Astrology, George Allen and Unwin, London, 1984.
Maslow, Abraham, Toward A Psychology of Being, Van Nostrand, London, 1968.
Moore, Marcia, and Douglas, Mark, Astrology: The Divine Science, Arcane



Publications, Maine.
Naumann, Eileen, The American Book of Nutrition and Medical Astrology, Astro

Computing Services, California, 1982.
Perera, Sylvia Brinton, The Descent to the Goddess, Inner City Books, Toronto,

Canada, 1981.
Rose, Christina, Astrological Counselling, Aquarian Press, Wellingborough,

Northamptonshire, England, 1982.
Rowan, John, The Reality Game: A Guide to Humanistic Counselling and Therapy,

Routledge and Kegan Paul, London, 1983.
Rudhyar, Dane, The Astrological Houses, Doubleday, New York, 1972.
Russell, Peter, The Awakening Earth, Routledge and Kegan Paul, London, 1982.
Simonton, Carl; Simonton, Stephanie; Creighton, James, Getting Well Again, Bantam

Books, Toronto, Canada, 1981.
Storr, Anthony, Human Aggression, Penguin Books, London, 1982.
Thornton, Penny, Synastry, Aquarian Press, Wellingborough, Northamptonshire,

England, 1982.
Wilber, Ken, The Atman Project: A Transpersonal View of Human Development,

Theosophical Publishing House, Wheaton, Illinois, 1980.
Wilber, Ken, Up From Eden: A Transpersonal View of Human Evolution, Routledge

and Kegan Paul, London, 1983.
Yalom, Irvin, Existential Psychotherapy, Basic Books, New York, 1981.



SOURCES FOR CHART REFERENCES

All the data used in the first edition of this book were taken from the most reliable
sources available at that time (the Lois Rodden Astro-Data book series and The
Gauquelin Book of American Charts). In the light of discovering more accurate data
and sources, the data for charts mentioned in this book have been updated and checked
using Lois Rodden’s program Astrodatabank and Frank Clifford’s The Clifford Data
Compendium (on the Solar Fire program).



Fig. 17 Howard Sasportas, born 12 April 1948, 01:46 EST (+5),
Hartford, Connecticut, USA (41N46, 72W41)



REMEMBERING HOWARD SASPORTAS
Tributes written and compiled for the 2007 Edition

Darby Costello
At some point, in the summer of 1968, Howard and I met on Mount Tamal Pias in
California at a solstice celebration. We knew each other already, but I don’t remember
from where – so many of us were moving around in those years. He had an
extraordinary presence even then – very tall, and lean, with a ‘distinguishing facial bone
structure’ as he later wrote about Capricorn rising, in his now renowned book, The
Twelve Houses. At the time, neither of us were astrologers, we were simply children of
our times, and as the times were the 1960s in America, we were going back and forth
cross the country, following the music and looking for love and enlightenment with as
much passion as each of us had. Howard had an intense gaze, so serious, black eyes –
his head bent slightly, inquiring, and nearly always a small, self-deprecating smile. The
combination was disconcerting, exciting, challenging. I remember feeling shy with him,
and years later, when I told him that, he said he had felt the same with me.

The next time we met was in Boston in 1969. I had gone there, after years of
travelling and searching, to study astrology. A friend, Diane Keenan, introduced me to
another astrology student who was studying with Isabel Hickey and who needed a
roommate. Her name was Nathalie Merchant and she lived in Cambridge. During the
eighteen months I lived there, our apartment became one of the meeting places where
people gathered. There were other apartments where we gathered too; Kenny was a
painter, and we often ended up in his studio in the evenings. Diane was a haven, and we
wandered in and out of her place, resting in the graceful atmosphere she created. There
were others too, and each of us had our circuits; our place was where there was good
brown rice and vegetable suppers (Nathalie was a wonderful cook), and astrology talk.
We talked astrology from morning to night and everyone who came in was part of the
conversation. At some point, and I don’t remember when, Howard was there. He was
suddenly at our kitchen table, and quite soon he was in and out of the house as family,
even later taking in, as a roommate, one of my younger sisters when she came to Boston
to live.

His arrival at our flat was always somehow full of his exotic mix of excitement,
energy and, at the same time, shy, self-conscious, almost timid carefulness. He brought
many people to our table – several of us fell in and out of love with each other, and
there were many intense and (now looking back) hilarious French farce sort of dramas.
At some point we all went to see Maharishi Mahesh Yogi who came to Boston, and
most of us became TM meditators on the spot.



What I see now, as I look back, is that under the exotic, challenging intensity and
around the side of the shy, self-deprecation, he was a fine friend, a kind companion, a
very, very funny observer of life – observing himself as well as others with the same
sharp eye. I can still remember some of the things he said to me – but am even today
shy to repeat them, because of their funny and always slightly shocking, wicked edge.

In 1971 I left Boston and went to Africa. Before I left, Howard and I went for a walk
in one of the parks. I told him I might not come back to America – Africa felt like my
destiny. He told me that he had been planning to leave but now knew he had to stay and
study astrology. He felt it was his destiny. We said we would write to each other.

We lost touch, and then in 1975 I came, from Africa, to London for a visit. Finding
him was such a surprise. We went for a long walk by the Thames. He looked so
extraordinary, so tall and dignified in a suit and tie with a tinge of the shy and slightly
deferential manner still, but fitting in so perfectly here that it was hardly noticeable. His
ironic eye now at home in a country that loved irony. Howard had become an astrologer
and was living in London. He had many clients, was teaching and loved his life. He was
also a practitioner and teacher of Transcendental Meditation. I had become an
astrologer in Johannesburg, and he was the first practicing astrologer I had met since I
left America. The familiarity and shyness that were always part of our encounters were
still there, under our more adult selves, but oh the conversation was joyous!

We kept in touch and when I left Africa and came to London to live, in 1983, he was
one of the three people I knew here. By now he was working with Liz Greene and they
were planning to create a school together; it became the CPA.

He immediately took me under his now conventional look but still exotic wing! He
sent me clients and, once I was ready, opportunities for giving workshops and lectures.
He introduced me to people (the wonderful Charles Harvey being one of the first) and
he gave me information – useful, wicked, funny and kind – about the world of astrology
in England. We met often for dinner and lunch. When I had been invited to give my first
London talk, at the Lodge, I asked him for advice. He said, ‘Don’t worry about your
astrology – you’ve got that in you. But, your clothes, well, the combination of Miss
New England and ethnic Africa might not serve you: I would suggest fishnet stockings,
a very short skirt, and an expensive, low-cut, bright orange sweater. That will ensure, if
you get nervous and lose your way in the lecture, no one will mind at all and everyone
will remember you.’

During my first years here, he was as fine a friend as one could ever wish for. He
continued to give me help and guidance as to how to find my way in the English
community and though I never did follow his dress advice (and he did continue to give
it to me!) I did follow almost everything else he counselled. As I come to the end of this
reminiscence, honouring a so dear and missed friend, I mostly remember his shy
boldness, his sadness, his wicked, delicious humour, his wonderful astrological eye, and
in the end, his kind, kind heart.

Laura Boomer-Trent
When I first read Howard Sasportas’ seminal book The Twelve Houses in the mid-



1980s, it was a revelation. This mine of information gives more than your usual
astrological cookbook: more depth, more humour and more love. Ancient allegory or
modern soap opera, Howard’s appreciation of symbols – and symbol drama – meant his
insight into everyday life was extraordinary. Anyone wanting to nourish the soul with
that extra astrological dimension has a book to treasure. The Twelve Houses is as
brilliant today as it was those twenty-odd years ago.

Fortunately, I was lucky enough to be taught by Howard, and benefited enormously
from his fiery Aries enthusiasm and visionary Sagittarian Jupiter. With a strong
influence from the Jupiterian sky god, Zeus, he loved to travel. Indeed, it was at a
summer school, on the mythical Greek island of Kos, where we met. It was perfect
timing for both of us. Because of his Scorpionic Chiron conjunct my ascendant, it
seemed fitting to partake of the curative waters from Chiron’s spring together (the
source at Asclepius’ Temple on Kos, a sanctuary to the ancient hero of medical care).
Our relationship then became one of following the healing path. I was even more
blessed to become part of his inner coterie; we got to share pizza and talk over charts.
It’s worth noting how his Taurus Moon sat bang on my descendant; nearly everything
we did together involved eating, drinking, or just generally enjoying the good life! His
Aries Mercury was also conjunct my Moon, and we would naturally converse for hours.
Back then I was a relative astrological newcomer, but he was always kind enough to let
me pick his brains – even in his final years, when he endured tremendous pain.

Howard’s genius was the way he simply ‘synthesized’ a horoscope, the person and
their situation, be it good or bad; he would then seek out, via the birthchart, the most
suitable solution to any quandary – one that was also applicable to the personality, as
well as to the chart’s astrological aspects, and appropriate progressions and transits. His
was a rare talent that came about from having obtained a humanistic psychology degree,
at the same time studying under the auspices of American astrologer, Isabel Hickey,
who wrote A Cosmic Science. Later on, he trained with Italian transpersonal
psychologist Roberto Assagioli. His astrological style was informed by Assagioli’s
ideas of psychosynthesis, concentrating on the enrichment of the higher or deeper-self
(leading to his astute development: astrological sub-personalities), without ever
detracting from a person’s evolving spirit by honouring the person’s Sun sign. With this
incredible aptitude he began a close association with the doyenne of psychological
astrology, Liz Greene; and having won the Faculty’s Margaret Hone Award in 1979,
went on to become one of Britain’s most popular astrologers. In fact, when the then star
of Sun sign astrology, Patric Walker, himself incapacitated, asked Howard to
temporarily take over his Sun sign column at the Evening Standard, little did Patric
know that Howard was also in hospital, happily distracting himself from his
circumstances by churning out daily stars!

Despite his no-nonsense Capricorn rising – Howard called himself a ‘humanist
astrologer’ – he was also an extremely sensitive and spiritually evolved soul. He spent
many years practising – and teaching – Transcendental Meditation, which stood him in
excellent stead; I believe he was far more psychically aware than he all too humbly
gave himself credit for.



For Howard, astrology was the heavenly map that revealed a person’s Divine truth.
He used to say that he believed the chart before he believed a client denying hidden
shadows indicated by the chart. As often quoted, he said, ‘Denial is pushing something
out of your awareness. Anything you hide in the basement has a way of burrowing
under the house and showing up on the front lawn.’ Even when an analysand’s dark side
ever did worm its way through to the light, as it so often would with Howard’s gentle
but firm touch, he masterfully became the catalyst, encouraging the person to find his or
her way to welcome the awakening issue into consciousness. Skilfully nurturing to help
people to find a solution within his or her self, he would supervise the resolve with
paternal care. With his Aries Sun and powerful 7th house Leo stellium, he knew how
useless it was telling anyone exactly what to do: people have to reach their own point of
self-discovery to make the real changes deep within.

During the last year of his life Howard was very ill, left paralysed from a tricky but
unsuccessful back operation. The way he dealt with his agonizing pain, compounded by
the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, was inspirational: he watched television
programmes or films of people in real-life dire situations, such as war, famine or
sickness – conditions he considered far worse than his. He did so, in actual fact, to
understand that others can have a dreadful existence and to raise compassion for them.
In so doing, it would alleviate his own dreadful suffering. This was a very high teaching
for me. To watch my friend and astrological master burn up negative karma at such a
rapid rate was heartbreaking. Yet Howard was always philosophical about his situation;
referring to the rare 172-year conjunction of Uranus and Neptune, then transiting his
12th house, he accepted that neither he, nor his ego, had control over the issues of
change and suffering, not to mention the transiting Pluto that came to conjunct his
Midheaven. The Gods of Change was a fitting testament to his perception of the pain of
birth, old age, sickness and death. Without being arrogant, Howard valued his
Sephardic heritage; he prayed that whatever he went through would ultimately be of use
to the collective. Without a doubt, Howard’s life was truly valuable. His teachings and
memory do live on, not only in the indispensable The Twelve Houses (the book he was
most proud of), but also in all the other books he wrote or co-wrote with Dr Greene and
Robert Walker. Showing how to help the human personality shift attitudes towards the
positive, to reconcile relationships, integrate, and be ‘at one’ with his or her personal
process of development was his gift to us all.

Soon after he returned to London, triumphant from having received the Regulus
Award at the United Astrology Congress in Washington DC, Howard was hospitalized.
I will never forget the day he died. I had visited the day before. His parting shot was
that there would be a message from America. I had no idea what he was talking about
initially, thinking he was coming in and out of consciousness. Late in the afternoon of
the next day, with the intention of calling into the hospital, I went out of my house,
looked up to my town hall clock; it said 10 past 5. I heard a small voice in my heart
whisper ‘Don’t go into town. Get some food from Tesco’s’, which I did. An hour later I
returned home to receive a phone call from American astrologer Michael Lutin, who
had somehow been nominated to tell me the news: Howard had left his body. And



where was Mr Lutin? In the U.S., of course! The moral of this story is that even though
the physical plane changes, the heart connection Howard had with all his students, even
with those he never actually met, remains pure, filled with unconditional care, and wit.

Erin Sullivan
Howard and I met in the mid-1980s, at a conference in his hometown, Hartford,
Connecticut. I was lecturing on the Saturn Transit and the Heroic Journey. After the
lecture, he came up to me and asked if I wanted to publish my work in a book, and
would I like to have lunch with him.

The alchemical reaction was palpable and quickened a unique partnership. The
mysterious alembic in which my life merged with his for a few short years was akin to
the relationship between the alchemist and the soror mystica. A tacit agreement was
made in the depths of a mysterious core, thus we began our opus. Our alliance was a
profound gift for both of us; a singular meeting of minds, souls and hearts. Hermes
Trismegistus was at work from the start, and remained our facilitator for the duration of
our relationship, shape-shifting in accord with the ongoing opus of our work and
relationship. As trickster, teacher and psychopompos, his agency worked on our behalf,
helping, healing, instigating, guiding, laughing and enlightening. There is no alchemy if
both parties are not totally transformed and, in our individual and conjoined life, the
transformation was mutual.

Humour is the essential core of any good relationship, and to see the world in all its
absurdity and foolishness was a source of great pleasure to both of us. As everyone who
encountered him knows, Howard was hilarious. He had a wicked element underlying
his gentility and grace and, in fact, was deeply irreverent. At times when, in the face of
the inexorable, we would find ourselves transported to a plane of extraordinary
consciousness, it was this fullness of experience, from the sublime to the ridiculous, that
made us who we were to each other.

On one of our evenings of hermetic exploration of life, he said that aside from the
obvious simpatico between us – under any and all circumstances – he felt we had come
together to help him cross over the threshold to death, that he had met me to give him
the courage and the strength to make this final journey consciously and with company.
His apology to me for being the one left behind was a poignant plea for understanding
that it was what had to be, not a choice. He knew as he approached the event horizon of
death, I would be the one to act as the minion of Hermes Psychopompos, ever present to
minister and further the process, whatever it took.

Indeed, we shared some interesting natal astrology. His Moon at 24º Taurus in his
4th house was conjunct my north node in my 7th house, and his Chiron in his 10th
house at 23º Scorpio was conjunct my south node in the 1st house. My Sun at 16º
Scorpio on my Ascendant, square to Mars, Saturn and Pluto in Leo in my 9th house,
was a collusion both in gender and intent to his Moon square Mars, Saturn and Pluto in
his 7th house. There was a conspiracy therein that invoked each of our personal
Eros/Thanatos struggles in extremis. He had natal Moon opposite Chiron and I had
natal Sun conjunct it … each are square Mars/Saturn/Pluto, all are interactive. We



recognized this implicit, shared existential experience and, in that intimacy, had an
unspoken agreement – what alchemists call the ‘left-handed handshake’.

This is a book on houses, and in Howard’s book each house has many mansions. The
house of our relationship, that mysterious third entity that only can exist between two
specific people, is explicit. Our composite horoscope produced a third party in the
relationship between the two of us that had a specific mandate. The planets in the
houses of the composite expressed the alembic in which we were honoured to work.

The composite chart has the Sun at 4º Aquarius in the 2nd house in opposition to the
Moon at 0º Leo in the 8th house, which is followed by Pluto, Saturn and Mars at 13º,
18º and 20º Leo respectively. This stellium is the common link in and between our natal
horoscopes. With Sagittarius rising, and Jupiter in Sagittarius just into the 12th house,
trine the Leo planets, there was the Hermes/Zeus partnership for a life journey and a
guiding container. With the composite as container for the two individuals, this one was
designed to go to the last quarter of life, and do it with dignity and gravitas. And with a
great dollop of fun whipped in. The south node and Chiron in our composite’s 11th
house (of ultimate outcome of a life investment, and the friendship agreement) are
exactly conjoined at 18º Scorpio within ten minutes of arc. Both are square to the
Mars/Saturn/Pluto conjunction in the 8th house. The Eros/Thanatos dichotomy is in
perfect syzygy.

Howard’s death was grace personified, the last hours a quiet, profound privilege.
Conscious, to the very last second, he was present for the moment of crossing over.
With Marc, Robert1 and me there, he opened his eyes, and said, ‘I am dying, aren’t I?’
And, holding his head, I said, ‘Yes, Howard, you are, and it is OK.’ And, his final
words, a few minutes later, were, ‘Something is happening! Something is moving!’
And, as I held the top of his head, there was a fluttering and pulsing at the fontanel. He
expired. And his body relinquished his soul immediately, with no pain, no agony and no
regret.

In the last two weeks before his death, we had moved to the stage of absolute
purification and clarification. We played ‘what day will I die?’ Since the Sun was in
Taurus, coming to his IC (the return to the realm of the personal ancestors) and the
transit of Pluto was retrogressing back over his MC (transformation/transmutation of
vocation/life calling), it seemed apparent that it would be 11 or 12 May. When the Sun
opposes an outer planet that is retrograde, it marks the flashpoint of the annual cycle,
and given all the other transits, progressions and the actual circumstances – as well as it
being an essential part of an astrologer’s life – we did this as we had done all our
explorations, with spiritual integrity and in the interest of consciousness. The Sun did
reach that point on the IC and Pluto was on his MC, and indeed he did go at 5:12 p.m.
on 12 May 1992. And one of the other things we had touched on in the course of that
long day was the sensation he had of being ‘Pluto above ground’.

I am the type whose purest love is deathless, and to this day Howard remains my
Hermes, guide and mentor. In any great project, be that a book, an action or life-change,
he is present. I am not given to vapours and supernatural experiences, but four days
after he died, I was at the home of very dear friends in Micheldever, near Winchester,



and a long-planned outdoor party was being held. I stood upstairs in my room, in the
dark, looking out at the night, grieving. And, I said, ‘Give me a sign’, and a bat
swooped by three times, rather purposefully than arbitrarily.

Thrice great Hermes.
To love a dying man is an extraordinary privilege. It offers the opportunity to be

truly selfless. He was worth every second of it, and we had a lot of fun, too. In between
laughter, tears, steroid infusions, blood transfusions, remissions and exacerbations, treks
to and from the Middlesex Hospital, a lot of stuff got done, including his loving and
brilliant transcription of Richard Idemon’s book, Through the Looking Glass, in the last
six months of his life; our trip to Australia to teach, meeting great people who loved
him and his work; and then, of course, his final earth journey, to the United Astrology
Congress in Washington, DC, in late April 1992, where he gave his last lecture, the
memorable and moving, ‘Help Me I’m a Helper’, from a wheelchair, at 97 pounds, two
and a half weeks before he died.

Howard left another legacy: a son was born to Howard and his teenage love, Kathy,
on 6 June 1966, at 1:49 p.m. in New York. The times being what they were, and the
families being who they were, the boy was given up for adoption at birth. He was
wanted, and loved, but it was not meant to be. Howard longed to meet his son before he
died, and talked with Kathy at length; her husband and two sons were supportive, and
all agreed, and they signed on to Parent Finders. But it wasn’t until November 1999 that
Scott contacted his mother. Since then we all have been privileged to have Scott around
our lives. He found his paternal grandparents – Howard’s mom and dad – aunt and
uncles, cousins and a few of Howard’s closest friends. Scott and his mother have forged
a strong relationship, and knowing who his father was has made many things clear to
him. He is a successful young man, and Howard would be very proud indeed.2

As I write this, shortly after what would have been his 59th birthday, and a couple of
weeks before the 15th anniversary of his death, his horoscope is vitally active and could
be ‘proof of life’, if you will. Howard may have abandoned his body but, as Socrates
said, ‘The body [soma] is the grave of the soul [psyche]’. A horoscope does not die
either, it continues infinitely. And, as this, his first book, is being republished, the
activity that his living horoscope contains is truly remarkable.

The day Howard died Saturn was at 18º 16’ Aquarius, coming to oppose his Mars.
At the time of writing, Saturn is stationary-direct at 18º 10’ Leo, conjunct his natal
Saturn in the 7th house. In his personal ‘heroic journey’, this transit marks a time when
the journeying hero ‘brings the boon to mankind’. Well, yes, I think it is appropriate,
Howard having achieved the status of an elder in his tribal community, that this book
should come forth to educate and inform yet another generation of astrologers.

A Jupiter return is upon him, too, in his 11th house, and the groups and collectives to
whom he devoted his mind and work will continue to be enlightened by his teachings.
Some of the interactive fine-tuning shows us that his current secondary progressed
Moon will be on his Descendant at the same time as this publication; and this year,
2007, his progressed IC is at 15º Cancer, while the progressed Moon was at 15º Cancer
when he died! So, a meeting at the mysterious IC is present. A resurrection is taking



place.
Icarus Revivat.
I continue to acknowledge Howard in my books. I always will. He remains a muse

and a Hermes to me … and I know he is to many seasoned and new astrologers alike.
Enjoy this classic book again – and again!

1. Robert Walker, partner and co-author with Howard of The Sun Sign Career Guide.
2. Written permission granted by Scott and his mother Kathy; and Marc Gerstein, the
executor for the Estate of Howard Sasportas.

Melanie Reinhart
It is a poignant task, writing a tribute to one who was such an influence on my life. To
begin, I fetched an old photo, taken around the time I first met Howard. A thick mass of
dark hair surrounds an open and expressive face. In the eyes, there is a twinkle of
humour, mischief even, and they do not fear to look straight at you. And yet, on second
look, these same eyes are also looking elsewhere, far into the distance, as if seeing
something you know you don’t see. The gaze is kindly, never accusatory, disapproving
or unsettling. There is a slightly wry smile, as if he is about to confide a secret or tell a
joke. Indeed he often did the latter. And yet the corners of the mouth show a
vulnerability, almost a hesitation, letting you know that it matters to him whether you
like him or not. There is a combination of seriousness, gravitas, and lightness. I vividly
remember the feeling of ‘being seen’ by Howard. I’m not alone in having received this
warm, direct and sometimes penetrating gaze. This was characteristic of the way he
engaged with everyone: clients, colleagues, students and friends.

I first met Howard in 1979 in the Psychosynthesis training in London, and that year
we both sat our Diploma exams for the Faculty of Astrological Studies. I remember
being struck immediately by his presence, his warmth and humour. I owe Howard a
great deal, as both friend and mentor. It was he who suggested in 1985 that I write a
book with the material I had collected about Chiron, and I was later supremely fortunate
to have him as my editor. In a way that helped circumvent my anxieties, he basically
left me alone to get on with the task. But I knew he was there in the background should
I need him, invisibly encouraging. He could radiate support like this, and indeed did so,
to many people. He was always modest and unassuming about his own brilliant work,
even to the point of diffidence. He sometimes expressed a poignant lack of self-
confidence, even a need for reassurance, and expressed genuine surprise at his own
considerable success. He was very human in his grandeur, and a true ‘gentleman’.

Howard was an inspirational teacher, with a gift of making theory relevant and
bringing abstract ideas into direct connection with people’s life processes, often with a
wry Jewish humour, casting a wise and kindly eye over human folly. We shared a
background of deep immersion in spiritual tradition and, although our paths were quite
different, this common interest provided material for many a discussion. His
understanding of how the spiritual path intersects with the intricacies of the
psychological process was definitely ahead of its time and also wrought from the



intensity of his own journey. One of his ancestors had been a rabbi in London, one of
the first, I believe.

Through the long months of Howard’s illness after spinal surgery, and before he died
in 1992, he often showed his vulnerability in ways very touching. I feel blessed to have
been able to support him during this time, a precious opportunity to demonstrate my
gratitude. He was able to share feelings of grief, anger and distress with great dignity
and honesty, never wallowing in self-pity. Even when in great pain, he always remained
caring and interested in others’ lives.

I have an abiding memory of Howard, which still delights me. It was New Year, and
we had shared dinner in his home, with more than a bottle of wine. Someone had given
him for Christmas a mobile of the Solar System, and he wanted this hung in the space
over his bed. But first it needed assembling. So we spread the planets out over the floor,
and crawled about, painstakingly trying to follow the complex instructions about which
went where, and struggling to get the string lengths correct to balance the planets,
before hoisting the thing up. The ‘astro-talk’ about planets in aspect to each other
during this chaotic scramble was supremely funny, and I often wish I had a recording of
that spontaneous ‘Astrological Goon Show’!

As a true Aries, and by now somewhat physically disabled himself, he cajoled me to
do the well nigh impossible – mount it on the ceiling. I could barely reach the ceiling
when standing on a chair perched on the bed, which seemed to pitch and roll alarmingly
in my inebriated state, even though he was holding the chair. I fell off a couple of times,
but as a relaxed inebriate, no harm was done!

Jokes flowed liberally too, about Howard finally achieving his wish to be ‘Master of
the Universe’ and becoming ‘Lord of the Planets’, etc. Our first attempt to hoist the
Solar System resulted in the whole thing tumbling down after a just a few minutes,
provoking further hilarity. Undaunted, however, he persuaded me to try again. After a
couple more attempts, it seemed stable, although I secretly wondered for how long! He
then insisted, as he always did, on calling a ‘lady’s taxi’ to take me home. It was about
3.30am.

My phone rang early the next morning. It was Howard, in mock-grouchy mood: ‘The
Solar System fell down on me during the night, and it’s all your fault.’ Bleary laughter
bubbled up. But then, solemnly, ‘I guess this is it, eh? No more New Years.’ My mirth
froze. To avoid revealing my shock, I joined in the black humour and said something
like, ‘Well, if it’s really all over, you won’t need the Solar System anymore, or an
ephemeris. You’re going elsewhere, so you can pack it up now. Send me a postcard,
won’t you?’ Laughter exploded again. When I next visited he proudly displayed the
Solar System, left in its wrecked and tangled state, a silent tribute to its deeper meaning,
and a poignant symbol of an astrologer with Chiron in Scorpio on the MC accepting his
own mortality. He was indeed a true Wounded Healer, and probably all those who
accompanied him in those last months experienced this quality of bringing healing to
others while in pain himself. He used to say that Chiron was ‘The wounds that make us
wise’. He lived this.

On reflection, this unforgettable anecdote is for me a metaphor of what Howard



accomplished through his teaching and writing. He worked to make the planets relevant
and intelligible, and inspired countless people by re-connecting them in a very personal
way with their sense of meaning, purpose, place and participation in the Solar System,
the Universe and indeed in Life itself. And he made it fun! I still miss him sometimes.



see each planet in the Third House
see also Mercury, Gemini and Virgo through the

GENERAL INDEX Houses
cusps, of houses, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5

death, anxiety about, 1
and birth, 1, 2

accidie, 1 see Eighth House
Air Houses: The Trinity of Relationship, 1, 2 see each planet in the Eighth House
alchemy, 1 see also Pluto and Scorpio through the Houses
Angles, division of chart into, 1 Descendant, 1, 2, 3, 4
Angular Houses, 1, 2 relationship to Ascendant, 1
anima, principle of, 1, 2, 3 dharma, 1, 2, 3
Aquarius, on Ascendant, 1 divine homesickness, 1, 2

through the Houses, 1 Dragon’s Head and Tail, 1
archetypal expectations, see inborn expectations
Aries, on Ascendant, 1 Early home, see First House

through the Houses, 1 see also Fourth House
aristocratic descent, 1 see each planet in the First and Fourth Houses
arthritis, 1, 2 Earth, daily rotation of, 1, 2
Ascendant and First House, 1, 2, 3 Earth Houses: The Trinity of Matter, 1

Ascendant Complex, 1 ecliptic, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
Ascendant Types, 1 education, 1, 2

astral plane, 1, 2 see each planet in the Third and Ninth Houses
axis of horizon and meridian, 1 ego, (Jung’s definition), 1

dissolution of ego, see each planet in the Twelfth
birth moment, 1, 2 House
birth, type of, 1 reconnecting to universality, see each planet in the
bodymind connection, 1 Twelfth House
body, relationship to, see each planet in the Sixth House Eighth House, 1, 2
boundaries, between self and others, 1, 2 see each planet in the Eighth House

see each planet in the Twelfth House see also Succedent Houses
brain, left and right hemispheres, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 see also Water Houses

Eleventh House, 1, 2, 3
Cadent Houses, 1 see each planet in the Eleventh House
Campanus System, 1 see also Succedent Houses
Cancer, on the Ascendant, 1 see also Air Houses

through the Houses, 1 enemies, open, 1, 2
cancer, the disease of, 1, 2, 3 secret, 1, 2, 3
Capricorn, on the Ascendant, 1 entelechy,1

through the Houses, 1 Equal House System, 1, 2
Cardinal signs, 1 equator, celestial, 1, 2, 3
career, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 equinox, spring, 1, 2, 3

and Gauquelin studies, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
and mother, 1 family background, see Fourth House
see each planet in the Tenth House see each planet in the Fourth House

cerebral cortex, 1, 2 Father, see Fourth House
chart examples, see Index of People see each planet in the Fourth House
children, 1 Fifth House, 1, 2

see each planet in the Fifth House see each planet in the Fifth House
Chiron, discovery and mythology, 1 see also Succedent Houses

through the Houses, 1 see also Fire Houses
cichlid fish, 1 Fire Houses: Trinity of Spirit, 1
Collective Houses, 1 First House, 1, 2, 3
collective Self, 1, 2 see each planet in the First House
collective unconscious, 1, 2, 3, 4 see also Angular Houses
communication, 1 see also Fire Houses



foetus, see womb Jonah complex, 1
Foreign travel, 1 journeys, long, 1, 2

see each planet in the Ninth House see each planet in the Ninth House short, 1
Fourth House, 1, 2 see each planet in the Third House

see each planet in the Fourth House Jupiter, mythology and astrological meaning, 1
see also Angular Houses Jupiter and Sagittarius through the Houses, 1
see also Water Houses in the First House, 1

friendship, 1, 2 in the Second House, 1
see each planet in the Eleventh House in the Third House, 1

in the Fourth House, 1
Gauquelin Studies, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 in the Fifth House, 1
Gemini, on the Ascendant, 1 in the Sixth House, 1

through the Houses, 1 in the Seventh House, 1
General Systems Theory, 1 in the Eighth House, 1
goals and objectives, 1 in the Ninth House, 1

see Eleventh House in the Tenth House, 1
see each planet in the Eleventh House in the Eleventh House, 1

God-image, 1 in the Twelfth House, 1
see each planet in the Ninth House

groups, 1, 2 karma, 1, 2, 3, 4
see each planet in the Eleventh House see each planet in the Twelfth House

Kinsey Report, 1
health, see Sixth House Koch House System, 1

see each planet in the Sixth House
hemispheres, upper and lower, 1 language, development of, 1
heroic (solar) principle, 1, 2 law, lower courts, 1
hidden parent, 1 higher courts, 1
hobbies, 1 Leo, on the Ascendant, 1

see each planet in the Fifth House through the Houses, 1
home environment, 1, 2 Libra, on the Ascendant, 1

see each planet in the Fourth House through the Houses, 1
horizon, 1 love, dilemma with will, 1, 2, 3, 4
horoscope, (Greek meaning), 1
houses, empty, 1 marriage, 1

inequality of and intercepted signs, 1 see each planet in the Seventh House
packed, 1 Mars, mythology and astrological meaning, 1
rulerships of, 1 Mars and Aries through the Houses, 1
summary of key concepts, 1 in the First House, 1
systems of division, 1, 2 in the Second House, 1

humanitarian aims, 1, in the Third House, 1
see each planet in the Eleventh House in the Fourth House, 1

in the Fifth House, 1
‘I’, see ego in the Sixth House, 1
illness, 1, 2 in the Seventh House, 1

see each planet in the Sixth House in the Eighth House, 1
Imum Coeli (IC), 1, 2, 3 in the Ninth House, 1

see each planet in the Fourth House and IC in the Tenth House, 1
inborn expectations, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 in the Eleventh House, 1
individuation process, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 in the Twelfth House, 1
inheritance, see each planet in the Eighth House meaning, search for, 1, 2
in-laws, 1 see each planet in the Ninth House

see each planet in the Ninth House see also Jupiter and Sagittarius through the Houses
institutions (hospitals, prisons, etc), 1 ‘me-in-here’ paradigm, 1, 2, 3, 4

see each planet in the Twelfth House Mercurius, 1
intercepted signs, 1, 2 Mercury, mythology and astrological meaning, 1
interpretation of planets in houses, general guidelines, 1 Mercury, Gemini, and Virgo through the Houses, 1
interpretation of signs in houses, general guidelines, 1 in the First House, 1



in the Second House, 1 Furies, 1
in the Third House, 1 Gaea, 1
in the Fourth House, 1 Golden Age, 1, 2
in the Fifth House, 1 Helen of Troy, 1
in the Sixth House, 1 Hephaestus, 1
in the Seventh House, 1 Hera, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
in the Eighth House, 1 Hercules, 1, 2, 3, 4
in the Ninth House, 1 Honos, 1
in the Tenth House, 1 Hydra, 1, 2
in the Eleventh House, 1 Icarus, 1
in the Twelfth House, 1 Inanna, 1

Midheaven (MC) 1, 2, 3, 4 Job, 1
see each planet in the Tenth House and MC Jupiter, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6

mind, type of, 1 Mars, 1, 2, 3
abstract and concrete, 1, 2 Metis, 1
higher, 1, 2 Minthe, 1
see each planet in the Third and Ninth Houses Mourners, 1
see also Mercury, Gemini and Virgo through the Neptune, 1

Houses Oceanus, 1, 2
money, attitudes toward, 1 Odysseus, 1

other people’s, 1 Pan, 1
see each planet in the Second House Paris, 1

Moon, movement of, 1 Persephone, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
principle and astrological meaning, 1 Philyra, 1

Moon and Cancer through the Houses, 1 Phobus, 1
in the First House, 1 Phoenix, 1, 2
in the Second House, 1 Pluto, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
in the Third House, 1 Poseidon, 1, 2
in the Fourth House, 1 Prometheus, 1, 2
in the Fifth House, 1 Psyche, 1
in the Sixth House, 1 Saturn, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
in the Seventh House, 1 Saturnalia, 1
in the Eighth House, 1 Thanatos, 1, 2
in the Ninth House, 1 Titans, 1
in the Tenth House, 1 Trojan War, 1
in the Eleventh House, 1 Uranus, 1, 2, 3
in the Twelfth House, 1 Venus, 1

Moon’s Nodes, astrological meaning, 1 Virtus, 1
through the Houses, 1 Zeus, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7

morphogenetic field, 1
Mother, applicability to Fourth or Tenth, 1 nadir, see Imum Coeli

as shaping parent, 1, 2, 3 neighbours, 1
bonding with, 1, 2, 3, 4 see each planet in the Third House
see each planet in the Tenth House Neptune, mythology and astrological meaning, 1

mythology, references Neptune and Pisces through the Houses, 1
Aphrodite, 1, 2, 3, 4 in the First House, 1
Ares, 1, 2, 3 in the Second House, 1
Athene, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 in the Third House, 1
Chiron, 1 in the Fourth House, 1
Christ, 1, 2 in the Fifth House, 1
Cronus, 1, 2, 3 in the Sixth House, 1
Cyclopes, 1 in the Seventh House, 1
Deimos, 1 in the Eighth House, 1
Dionysus, 1, 2 in the Ninth House, 1
Ereshkigal, 1 in the Tenth House, 1
Eris, 1 in the Eleventh House, 1
Eros, 1, 2 in the Twelfth House, 1



Ninth House, 1, 2, 3 see each planet in the Fifth House
see each planet in the Ninth House ruling planet, of Ascendant, 1, 2
see also Cadent Houses
see also Fire Houses sacrifice, definition of, 1

Sagittarius, on the Ascendant, 1
outer planets, note on, 1 through the Houses, 1

Saturn, mythology and astrological meaning, 1
parent-imago, 1 Saturn and Capricorn through the Houses, 1
parent, shaping and hidden, 1, 2, 3 in the First House, 1
past lives, see reincarnation in the Second House, 1
Personal Houses, 1 in the Third House, 1
pets, 1 in the Fourth House, 1
philosophy, 1 in the Fifth House, 1

see each planet in the Ninth House in the Sixth House, 1
physics, reflecting mystical thought, 1 in the Seventh House, 1
physiognomy, 1 in the Eighth House, 1

see Ascendant Types, 1 in the Ninth House, 1
Pisces, on the Ascendant, 1 in the Tenth House, 1

through the Houses, 1 in the Eleventh House, 1
Placidus House System, 1 in the Twelfth House, 1
Pluto, mythology and astrological meaning, 1 Scorpio, on the Ascendant, 1
Pluto and Scorpio through the Houses, 1 through the Houses 1

in the First House, 1 Second House, 1, 2
in the Second House, 1 see each planet in the Second House
in the Third House, 1 see also Succedent Houses
in the Fourth House, 1 see also Earth Houses
in the Fifth House, 1 Seventh House, 1, 2
in the Sixth House, 1 see each planet in the Seventh House
in the Seventh House, 1 see also Angular Houses
in the Eighth House, 1 see also Air Houses
in the Ninth House, 1 sex, expression of, 1, 2
in the Tenth House, 1 see each planet in the Eighth House
in the Eleventh House, 1 shaping parent, 1
in the Twelfth House, 1 siblings, relationship to, 1, 2, 3

Porphyry System, 1 see each planet in the Third House
prisons, see institutions Sixth House, 1, 2
projection, onto children, 1 see each planet in the Sixth House

onto parents, 1, 2, 3 see also Cadent Houses
onto partners, 1, 2 see also Earth Houses
onto siblings, 1 soul, definition of, 1
see each planet in the Fourth, Seventh and Tenth Space Systems, 1

Houses spirituality, see each planet in the Ninth, Eleventh and
Twelfth Houses

quadrants, 1, 2 Succedent Houses, 1
quadrant systems, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Sun, astrological meaning, 1

Sun and Leo through the Houses, 1
recreation, definition of, 1 in the First House, 1

see Fifth House in the Second House, 1
see each planet in the Fifth House in the Third House, 1

Regiomontanus System, 1 in the Fourth House, 1
reincarnation, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 in the Fifth House, 1
relationships, see Seventh House in the Sixth House, 1
repression, of sex and aggression, 1, 2 in the Seventh House, 1
rising sign, see Ascendant in the Eighth House, 1
rituals, daily, 1 in the Ninth House, 1

see each planet in the Sixth House in the Tenth House, 1
romance, 1 in the Eleventh House, 1



in the Twelfth House, 1 in the Eighth House, 1
syntropy, 1 in the Ninth House, 1

in the Tenth House, 1
Taurus, on the Ascendant, 1 in the Eleventh House, 1

through the Houses, 1 in the Twelfth House, 1
Tenth House, 1, 2

see each planet in the Tenth House values, 1, 2
see also Angular Houses other people’s, 1
see also Earth Houses see each planet in the Second and Eighth Houses

Therapy, primal, 1, 2 Venus, mythology and astrological meaning, 1
psychosynthesis, 1, 2 Venus, Taurus, and Libra through the Houses, 1
transactional analysis, 1 in the First House, 1

Third House, 1, 2 in the Second House, 1
see each planet in the Third House in the Third House, 1
see also Cadent Houses in the Fourth House, 1
see also Air Houses in the Fifth House, 1

Time Systems, 1 in the Sixth House, 1
Topocentric House System, 1 in the Seventh House, 1
Twelfth House, 1, 2 in the Eighth House, 1

see each planet in the Twelfth House in the Ninth House, 1
see also Cadent Houses in the Tenth House, 1
see also Water Houses in the Eleventh House, 1

in the Twelfth House, 1
umbilical effect, 1, 2 Virgo, on the Ascendant, 1
unconscious mind, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 through the Houses 1

see each planet in the Fourth, Eighth
and Twelfth Houses ‘watches’, 1

Uranus, mythology and astrological meaning, 1 Water Houses: Trinity of Soul, 1
Uranus and Aquarius through the Houses, 1 womb, experience of, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6

in the First House, 1 see each planet in the Twelfth House
in the Second House, 1 work, attitudes towards, 1
in the Third House, 1 see each planet in the Sixth House
in the Fourth House, 1
in the Fifth House, 1 Zodiac Belt, 1
in the Sixth House, 1 Natural, 1
in the Seventh House, 1



Dickson, Anne, 1
Dillinger, John, 1

INDEX OF PEOPLE Disraeli, Benjamin, 1
Dobyns, Zipporah, 1, 2, 3
Dooley, Dr Tom, 1
Durant, Will, 1
Dyer, Albert, 1

Addey, John, 1 Dylan, Bob, 1, 2, 3, 4
Adopted Boy, 1
Ali, Muhammad, 1 Eastwood, Clint, 1
Alpert, Richard, 1 Eddy, Mary Baker, 1, 2
Andersen, Hans Christian, 1 Einstein, Albert, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
Andrew, Prince, 1 ‘Eliot’, 1
Anne, Princess, 1 Eliot, T. S., 1
Asner, Ed, 1 Epictetus, 1
Assagioli, Roberto, 1, 2, 3, 4

Fagan, Cyril, 1
Ballard, Guy, 1 Ferguson, Marilyn, 1, 2, 3, 4
Bell, Alexander Graham, 1 Ferrucci, Piero, 1
Bergen, Candice, 1 Filbey, John, 1
Bismarck, Otto von, 1 Fischer, Bobby, 1
Blake, William, 1, 2, 3, 4 Fitzgerald, F. Scott, 1
Bohm, David, 1 Fleming, Alexander, 1
Boomer–Trent, Laura, 1 Franco, Francisco, 1, 2
Brando, Marlon, 1 Frankl, Viktor, 1, 2
Brazilian Boy, 1 Freeman, Martin, 1, 2, 3, 4
Bremer, Arthur, 1 Freud, Sigmund, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
Browning, Robert, 1 Friedan, Betty, 1
Bruce, Lenny, 1 Frost, Robert, 1
Buber, Martin, 1, 2 Fry, Christopher, 1
Burton, Sir Richard, 1
Byron, Lord, 1, 2 Gacy, John Wayne, 1

Galileo, 1, 2
Campanus, Johannes, 1 Gandhi, Mohandas, 1, 2, 3
Campbell, Glen, 1 Gardner, Ava, 1
Camus, Albert, 1 Gauguin, Paul, 1
Capra, Fritjof, 1 Gauquelin, Michel and Françoise, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
Carson, Johnny, 1 10, 11
Cervantes, Miguel, 1 Geller, Uri, 1
Chamberlain, Richard, 1 Glenn, John, 1, 2
Chamberlain, Wilt, 1 Goebbels, Paul Joseph, 1
Charles, Prince, 1, 2, 3 Goethe, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
Chevalier, Maurice, 1 Greene, Liz, Foreword 2007 and 1985, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
Churchill, Winston, 1, 2 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15
Cicero, 1 Guggenbühl Craig, Adolf, 1
Cliburn, Van, 1
Clift, Montgomery, 1 Haldeman, H. R., 1
Cocteau, Jean, 1 Hammarskjöld, Dag, 1
Cornelius, Geoffrey, 1 Hardy, Thomas, 1
Costello, Darby, 1, 2 Harrison, Rex, 1

Harvey, Charles, 1
Dean, Geoffrey, 1, 2, 3 Hefner, Hugh, 1
Debussy, Claude, 1, 2 Heisenberg, Werner, 1
De La Mare, Walter, 1 Hemingway, Ernest, 1, 2
DeLorean, John, 1, 2 Hendrix, Jimi, 1
Desoille, Robert, 1 Hesse, Hermann, 1, 2
Diana, Princess, 1 Hickey, Isabel, 1, 2



Hillel, Rabbi, 1 Maslow, Abraham, 1, 2, 3
Hillman, James, 1 Matisse, Henri, 1, 2
Hitler, Adolf, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 May, Rollo, 1
Holden, William, 1 Menuhin, Yehudi, 1, 2
Holden, Ralph William, 1, 2 Merchant, Nathalie, 1
Hölderlin, 1 Meyer, Michael, 1, 2
Holiday, Billie, 1 Michelangelo, 1, 2
Hone, Margaret, 1, 2 Miller, Henry, 1
Horney, Karen, 1 Mitchell, John, 1, 2
Houston, Jean, 1, 2, 3 Monroe, Marilyn, 1, 2
Hugo, Victor, 1, 2 Mozart, 1, 2, 3
Huxley, Thomas, 1 Muller, Johannes, 1

Munkasey, Michael, 1, 2, 3
Idemon, Richard, 1

Napoleon, 1, 2
Jackson, Eve, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Naumann, Eileen, 1, 2
Jacobi, Derek, 1 Nicholson, Jack, 1
Jagger, Mick, 1 Nietzsche, 1, 2, 3
Janov, Arthur, 1, 2, 3 Nixon, Richard, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
Jung, Carl, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,

O. Henry, 1
Kant, Immanuel, 1 Olivier, Lord, 1, 2
‘Kate’ (A Case Study), 1
Keats, John, 1 Packard, Vance, 1
Keenan, Diane, 1 Peckinpah, Sam, 1
Kemp, Chester, 1 Pelletier, Robert, 1
Kennedy, John F., 1 Pessoa, Fernando, 1
Kierkegaard, Søren, 1, 2 Placidus de Titus, 1
Kissinger, Henry, 1 Plato, 1
Klein, Melanie, 1, 2 Plotinus, 1
Knievel, Evel, 1, 2 Polich, Wendel and Nelson Page, A. P., 1
Koch, Dr Walter, 1, 2 Presley, Elvis, 1
Krishnamurti, 1, 2 Proust, Marcel, 1, 2
Kübler-Ross, Dr Elisabeth, 1, 2, 3, 4

Raphael, 1
Laing, R. D., 1 Ray, James Earl, 1
Lauder, Sir Harry, 1 Redford, Robert, 1
Lee, Bruce, 1 Regiomontanus, see Muller, Johannes
Leigh, Vivien, 1, 2 Reinhart, Melanie, 1
Lenin, 1 Rimbaud, Arthur, 1, 2
Leonardo da Vinci, 1 Rodden, Lois, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
Leopold, Nathan, 1 Rodin, Auguste, 1
Liberace, 1 Rommel, General, 1
Lincoln, Abraham, 1, 2 Rooney, Mickey, 1
London, Jack, 1 Rose, Christina, 1, 2
Lorenz, Dona Marie, 1 Rostand, Edmond, 1
Luther, Martin, 1 Roth, Philip, 1
Lutin, Michael, 1 Rubin, Jerry, 1, 2

Rudhyar, Dane, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
Machiavelli, 1, 2, 3 Ruperti, Alexander, 1
Maharaji, Guru, 1 Russell, Bertrand, 1
Mailer, Norman, 1
Mann, Thomas, 1 St Augustine, 1, 2
March, Marion and McEvers, Joan, 1 St Catherine, 1
Marconi, Guglielmo, 1 St Francis, 1
Martin, Dean, 1 St Matthew, 1
Marx, Karl, 1, 2, 3 Sandburg, Carl, 1



Sanders, George, 1 Tillich, Paul, 1
Schlesinger, Arthur Jr., 1 Toulouse-Lautrec, Henri, 1
Schubert, Franz, 1, 2, 3
Schweitzer, Albert, 1 Van Gogh, Vincent, 1
Shaw, George Bernard, 1, 2 Verlaine, Paul, 1, 2
Sheldrake, Rupert, 1 Von Ribbentropp, Joachim, 1
Shelley, Percy Bysshe, 1, 2
Shields, Brooke, 1 Walker, Patric, 1
Sinclair, Upton, 1 Walker, Robert, 1, 2, 3
Speck, Richard, 1, 2 Wangemann, Edith, 1, 2
Speer, Albert, 1 Welles, Orson, 1
Stalin, 1 Whitehead, Alfred North, 1
Stokowski, Leopold, 1 Wilde, Oscar, 1, 2, 3
Streisand, Barbra, 1 Wilson, Colin, 1
Sullivan, Erin, 1 Windsor, Duke of, 1, 2, 3
Swinbume, A. C., 1 Wittgenstein, 1

Tagore, 1 Yalom, Irvin, 1
Teilhard de Chardin, Pierre, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Yogananda, Paramhansa, 1
Tesla, Nikola, 1
Thatcher, Margaret, 1  
Thomas, Dylan, 1



OTHER TITLES FROM FLARE PUBLICATIONS






COMING SOON FROM FLARE PUBLICATIONS:
   

Titles from Frank Clifford: The Midheaven: Spotlight on Success, 
Humour in the Horoscope, Getting to the Heart of the Chart, 

The Astrologer’s Notepad, and Birth Charts: Horoscopes of the Famous
   

ALSO AVAILABLE FROM FLARE’S MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT:
   

Aspects in Astrology 
by Sue Tompkins 

(0–7126–1104–5, 310pp, Rider, 2001) 
The essential and informative guide to astrological aspects and planetary combinations.

A modern classic.
   

The Draconic Chart 
by Rev. Pamela Crane 

(978–1–903353–13–4, 2009 revised edition) 
This pioneering work reveals the history and importance of the Draconic Zodiac, which

offers deep insights into your life meaning, driving principles, spiritual purpose,
vocation and karma. Plus Reverend Crane’s own impassioned journey from her first

apprenticeship to the discovery of the horoscope of Christ’s Nativity.
   

Shorthand of the Soul: the Quotable Horoscope 
by David Hayward 

(978–0–9530261–2–8, 256pp) 
An inspirational collection of over 2000 quotations (with astrological significators)

embracing every aspect of life. The wit and wisdom of poets, philosophers, authors and
celebrities bridges the gap between the symbolic worlds of literature and astrology.

With full index.
   

The Sun Sign Reader 
by Joan Revill 

(978–0–9530261–3–5, 224pp)  
Drawing from literature, radio and television, this astrological birthday book is an

entertaining cocktail of fictional birth and event dates. A stimulating introduction to
hundreds of authors and their works.

   
Venus: Your Key to Love 

Mars: Your Burning Desires 
by Frank C. Clifford and Anna Stuart 

(Venus: 978–0–9530261–5–9, 36pp; Mars: 978–0–9530261–6–6, 32pp) 
In these two fun guides, discover what your individual Venus placement has to say

about your relationships and attitudes to love and sex, and what your Mars placement



reveals about your desires, attitudes to love, sexual turn-ons and turn-offs.






Copyright

First published in 2007 
by Flare in conjunction with London School of Astrology 

BCM Planets 
London WC1N 3XX 
+44 (0)20 8402 7772 

info@flareuk.com
This ebook edition first published in 2010

All rights reserved 
© HOWARD SASPORTAS, 1985

The right of HOWARD SASPORTAS to be identified as author of this work has been asserted in accordance
with Section 77 of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988

This ebook is copyright material and must not be copied, reproduced, transferred, distributed, leased, licensed
or publicly performed or used in any way except as specifically permitted in writing by the publishers, as

allowed under the terms and conditions under which it was purchased or as strictly permitted by applicable
copyright law. Any unauthorised distribution or use of this text may be a direct infringement of the author’s and

publisher’s rights, and those responsible may be liable in law accordingly
ISBN 978–1–903353–26–4