WITH AN 
INTERACT IVE 

CD-ROM

the only 
astrology book 

you’ll ever need
JOANNA MARTINE WOOLFOLK

OVER 
600 ,000 

COP IES  SOLD!

Astrology_Pbk.indd   1 5/9/08   2:15:24 PM



THE ONLY ASTROLOGY BOOK 
YOU’LL EVER NEED

7



Also by Joanna Martine Wo olfolk

Sexual Astrology

Honeymoon for Life



THE ONLY ASTROLOGY BOOK 
YOU’LL EVER NEED

7
New Edition

JOANNA MARTINE WOOLFOLK

Taylor Trade Publishing
Lanham | New York | Boulder | Toronto | Plymouth, UK



First Taylor Trade Publishing edition 2006 The paper used in this publication meets the minimum require-
ments of American National Standard for Information Sciences—Perma-

This Taylor Trade Publishing paperback edition of The Only Astrology nence of Paper for Printed Library Materials, ANSI/NISO Z39.48–1992.
Book You’ll Ever Need is a revised and updated edition of the work first
published in hardcover in 1982 and in paperback in 1990 and then issued Manufactured in the United States of America.
by Taylor Trade Publishing in 2006. It is published by arrangement with
the author.

Photo Credits
Copyright © 1982, 1990, 2001, 2006, 2008 by Joanna Martine Woolfolk p. 12 Colin Powell (Corbis), Peyton Manning (© Frederick M.

Brown/Getty Images), Maya Angelou (Photofest)
All rights reserved. p. 17 John Paul II (© Porter Gifford/Getty Images), Stephen Colbert
No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic (© Scott Wintrow/Getty Images), Audrey Hepburn (Photofest)
or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval sys- p. 22 Marilyn Monroe (Photofest), John F. Kennedy (Courtesy of the
tems, without written permission from the publisher, except by a re- Library of Congress), Paul McCartney (Corbis)
viewer who may quote passages in a review. p. 27 Princess Diana (Corbis), George W. Bush (Corbis), Ernest

Hemingway (Photofest)
Published by Taylor Trade Publishing p. 32 Mick Jagger (Photofest), Madonna (Corbis), Bill Clinton
An imprint of The Rowman & Littlefield Publishing Group, Inc. (Corbis)
4501 Forbes Boulevard, Suite 200 p. 37 Richard Gere (Corbis), Mother Teresa (Photofest), Lance
Lanham, Maryland 20706 Armstrong (© Rob Loud/Getty Images)

p. 42 Jesse Jackson (Photofest), Barbara Walters (© Brad Barket/Getty
Estover Road Images), Simon Cowell (© Jeffrey Mayer/Getty Images)
Plymouth PL6 7PY p. 47 Whoopie Goldberg (© Brad Barket/Getty Images), Hillary
United Kingdom Rodham Clinton, Julia Roberts (Corbis)

p. 52 Frank Sinatra (Photofest), Jon Stewart (© Jeff Vespa/Getty
Distributed by National Book Network Images), Miley Cyrus (© Kevin Mazur/Getty Images)

p. 57 Martin Luther King Jr. (Photofest), Elvis Presley (Photofest),
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data Tiger Woods (© Donald Miralle/Getty Images)
Woolfolk, Joanna Martine. p. 63 Oprah Winfrey (© Evan Agostini / Getty Images), Franklin

The only astrology book you’ll ever need / Joanna Martine Woolfolk. Delano Roosevelt (Photofest), Justin Timberlake (© Steve
—new ed. Granitz/Getty Images)

p. cm. p. 68 Kurt Cobain (Corbis), Carrie Underwood (© Alberto E.
Includes bibliographical references and index. Rodriguez/Getty Images), Albert Einstein (Photofest)
ISBN-13: 978-1-58979-377-4 (pbk.: alk. paper)
ISBN-10: 1-58979-377-3 (pbk.: alk. paper)
1. Astrology.  I. Title

BF1708.1 .W68 2001
133.5—dc21 2001031798



I dedicate this book to William,
who, with his Sun in Cancer, taught me

the meaning of love
and, with his Moon in Virgo,

the meaning of work.

7



8
C O N T E N T S

About the Book viii PA RT  T H R E E

About the Author ix Understanding Astrology 291
Acknowledgments x 8 • The Houses of Astrology  293

Introduction xii 9 • How to Interpret Your Horoscope  319

10 • Aspects and Synastry: Probing Deeper into
PA RT  O N E Your Birth Chart  349
Sun Sign Astrology 1
1 • Sun Signs  3 PA RT  F O U R

2 • The Sun Signs in Love  71 Astrology in History and Legend 369

3 • The Decanates and Cusps of Sun Signs  145 11 • The Story of Astrology  371

4 • Astrology and Health  167 12 • The Zodiac: The Legend behind Each 
Sign  383

PA RT  T WO  
Less Well-Known Influences 191 PA RT  F I V E

Astrology in Our Time 397
5 • Moon Signs  193

13 • The Age of Aquarius  399
6 • Your Ascendant and Its Power  221

7 • You and the Planets: Their Role in Your 
Destiny  237

v i



8

PA RT  S I X Bibliography 515
An Astrologer’s Lexicon 405 Recommended Reading List for Chart Casting and

An Explanation of Terms  407 Interpretation 520

Recommended Ephemerides 521

PA RT  S E V E N Sources for Astrological Books, Ephemerides,
Computer Charts and Software 522

Astrological Tables for the Years
1900–2100 423 Index 523

Sun Tables  425

Moon Tables  429

Ascendant Tables  481

Planetary Tables  485

v i i



8
A B O U T  T H E  B O O K

here has never been an astrology book like by typing in the birth information, this CD gives you a

Tthis. Here is a book that with a few hours of read- complete chart within seconds. The CD even provides the
ing will help you to see yourself better, interpret page numbers of this book on which to find the meaning

your own chart, and use your chart year after year to un- of every influence in your chart.
derstand and predict trends and opportunities. The Only Astrology Book You’ll Ever Need, first pub-

The Only Astrology Book You’ll Ever Need gives explana- lished in 1982, is a classic in its field. On its original publi-
tions of the influences that are often given scant attention cation it was a choice of Book-of-the-Month Club, the Lit-
in conventional astrology books: the Moon sign, the Ris- erary Guild, and One Spirit Book Club, and has since
ing sign, the placement of the planets, and the significance become one of the best-selling astrology books published
of the twelve Houses. in the last 25 years. This new revised edition contains sec-

The value of this book is that an immense amount of tions on the inner life of each sign; insights on one’s rela-
knowledge is put into easy-to-understand language. The tionship, emotional needs, and drives; and how others see
book is also easy to use, for it supplies simplified Tables you. This edition is also updated to include the latest in-
that in most cases require only the laying down of a ruler formation about new discoveries in astronomy, projec-
across the birthdate. tions of world events in the 21st century, and extended

Even simpler, for those who have access to a computer, Planetary Tables for every year from 1900 to 2100.
is to utilize the CD-ROM packaged with this book.  Just

v i i i



8
A B O U T  T H E  A U T H O R

strolo ger Joanna Martine Woolfolk has had a

Along career as an author, columnist, lecturer, and
counselor. She has written the monthly horoscope

for numerous magazines in the U.S., Europe and Latin
America—among them Marie Claire, Harper’s Bazaar,
Redbook, Self, YM, House Beautiful, and StarScroll Interna-
tional.  In addition to the best-selling The Only Astrology
Book You’ll Ever Need, Joanna is the author of Sexual As-
trology, which has sold over a million copies worldwide,
and Astrology Source, an interactive CD-ROM.

Joanna is a popular television and radio personality
who has been interviewed by Barbara Walters, Regis
Philbin, and Sally Jessy Raphael. She has appeared in a
regular astrology segment on New York Today on NBC-TV
and on The Fairfield Exchange on CT Cable Channel 12,
and she appears frequently on television and radio shows
around the country. You can visit her website at
www.joannamartinewoolfolk.com.

i x

Photo by Fran Collin



8
A C K N O W L E D G M E N T S

am grateful for having known the late Capel And I give special thanks to Matrix Software. This 

IMcCutcheon, the brilliant astrologer who devised the innovative astrological computer-software company gra-
unique, comprehensive, and easy-to-use Planetary ciously supplied for this revised edition additional Plane-

and Ascendant Tables in this book. None of these tables tary Tables updated to the year 2100.  Matrix Software was
requires more than the simple laying-down of a ruler (or founded in the early 1980’s by Michael Erlewine, a vision-
two) in order to read the information that applies to you. ary genius in the field of computer astrology.
These tables are computer accurate and are based on Matrix Software also created the CD-ROM that is
United States time, rather than Greenwich, England, time packaged with this book. You who have computers can
usually found in other planetary tables. now cast astrological charts within seconds. Just enter the

Capel McCutcheon was a caring and inspiring teacher, birth information, and your chart is ready. The CD will
counselor, and lecturer, as well as the founder of the even give you the page numbers in this book on which key
Astrological Society of Connecticut. I miss his warmth, information about your chart is to be found.
support, and generosity.

x



8

We are born at a given moment, in a given place, 
and like vintage years of wine, we have the 

qualities of the year and of the season 
in which we are born.

Carl Gustav Jung



8
I N T R O D U C T I O N

he longer I  am an astrolo ger—which written about, refined, and pondered astrology’s signifi-

Tat this point is half my lifetime—the more I real- cance. It is the world’s oldest science and our own genera-

ize that what we all want to know is about our- tion’s newest subject of inquiry. According to a Gallup

selves. “Who am I?” you ask. You want to know what poll, 35 percent of American adults believe their lives are

makes you tick, why you have such intense feelings, and influenced by the position of the heavenly bodies. The

whether others are also insecure. People write me asking great majority of newspapers and magazines published in

questions like “What kind of man should I look for?” the United States carry an astrology column. Astrology as

“Why am I discontented with my job?” or “The woman a serious subject is being offered in over a dozen university

I’m dating is a Gemini; will we be happy together?” They courses.

ask me if they’ll ever find true love and when they will get Despite this new surge of interest, however, the general

out of a period of sadness or fear or the heavy burden of public has only a smattering of knowledge about the sub-

problems. They ask about their path in life and how they ject. The average person will say, “I’m interested, but I

can find more fulfillment. don’t know much about astrology.”

So I continue to see that the reason astrology exists is to One of the problems people encounter when trying to

answer questions about you. Basically, it’s all about you. learn more about astrology is that most books deal with

Astrology has been described as a stairway leading into only one phase of the subject. If you want to know about

your deeper self. It holds out the promise that you do not your Sun sign, there are many books on this topic. If you

have to pass through life reacting blindly to experience, want to know about your Moon sign, you will find books

that you can within limits direct your own destiny and in on this topic also. If you want to learn about your birth

the process reach a truer self-understanding. chart, you will have to look for yet another book that ex-

One surprising thing about the science of the stars is plains charts (these are harder to find).

its constant newness. Down through the centuries Not long ago, while talking to a friend, I casually men-

philosophers, mystics, and spiritual teachers have studied, tioned that my birth chart shows I have three planets in

x i i



Taurus. “Oh,” she said, “can you tell me where my three This book is an easy-to-understand, all-in-one guide to
planets are?” She did not know that everyone has ten plan- what astrology is about. If you want to know where all
ets* in his or her birth chart. your planets are in your birth chart or how compatible

But how would my friend know this? Most astrology your Sun sign is with your lover’s Sun sign or what the in-
books don’t deal with birth charts. Unless you are willing fluence of the Moon is in your life—it is here in one book.
to hunt down esoteric volumes hidden in the occult sec- I’d like to make one more important point. Astrology
tion of bookstores or in special libraries, where would you cannot transform your life—only you can do this. We as-
go to get that information? Any astrology book will tell trologers are often guilty of overpromising or encouraging
you whether your Sun sign is Aries or Pisces or one of the people to become overdependent. Astrology will not change
other signs of the zodiac. But then what? the ups and downs of your life drama. What it can do is

This book tells you all you should know about the give you insight on how to deal with your drama. Astrology
whole topic of astrology. You will learn about Sun signs— offers information and direction and, best of all, reassur-
and also about Moon signs, Ascendants, Planets, and ance. Sometimes all one is looking for is a nugget of guid-
Houses. You will come to understand how these factors in- ance, and I know you will find many, many nuggets in this
teract to shape your life. You will discover the meaning of book.
Aspects in your horoscope, and how to compare your birth I assume you picked up this book because you are inter-
chart with another person’s to reveal areas of compatibility. ested in astrology. And I hope this is only the beginning of
You will learn how astrology began and developed. And if your exploration. One can easily spend a lifetime exploring
you have access to a computer, the CD-ROM packaged the uncountable facets of this ever-evolving, ever-new topic.
with this book will enable you to cast a birth chart within Together we are about to enter more deeply into this fasci-
seconds. nating, vast, and complicated arena of knowledge. I hope

However, I want to say a word about what this book this will not be the only astrology book you’ll ever want—
is not. It is not an encyclopedia—nor does it encompass merely the only one you’ll ever need.
all the astrological wisdom that has been discovered dur-
ing the last 5,000 years. No single book could possibly Joanna Martine Woolfolk
do that even if it were twenty times as long as the pres- Stamford, Connecticut
ent volume. June 2008

*In a birth chart (which is a chart of the heavens at the time of your birth), the Sun and Moon are counted as planets. The Earth, because it is our
home-planet, is not.

I n t r o d u c t i o n  •  x i i i






8
Part One

SUN SIGN ASTROLOGY






8
1  

S U N  S I G N S

hen a man says to an attractive woman at a party, “I’m a Leo. What’s your sign?”, he is not only

Wusing an opening conversational gambit (and behaving just like Leo), he is also talking about Sun
signs.

What is a Sun sign?
From our viewpoint here on Earth, the Sun travels around the Earth once each year. Within the space of that

year the Sun moves through all twelve signs of the zodiac,* spending approximately one month in each sign.
The sign that the Sun was traveling through at the time of your birth is your Sun sign.

The Sun is our most powerful planet. (In astrological terms, the Sun is referred to as a planet even though it,
like the Moon, is actually a “luminary.”) It gives us life, warmth, energy, food. It is the force that sustains us on
Earth. The Sun is also the most important and pervasive influence in your horoscope, and in many ways deter-
mines how others see you. The position of the Sun in your birth chart governs your individuality, your distinc-
tive style, and your drive to fulfill your goals in life.

I often liken your Sun sign to the role you’ve been given in your grand drama. One can think (as Shake-
speare did) of life as a play that one enters into at the time of birth. You are the leading actor in this drama, and
the role you are acting is your Sun sign.

Another analogy is that your horoscope is a painting of you. The characteristics of your Sun sign are the
broad strokes that the artist first lays down on the canvas. The artist outlines your general shape, the planes and
angles of your face, the way in which you hold your body. In the same way, your Sun sign delineates your general
character. Are you introspective? Do you make friends easily? How do you cope with responsibility? Are you
high-strung or easygoing? The answers may be found in a study of your Sun sign.

*A detailed explanation of the zodiac appears on page 383 (chapter 12, “The Zodiac”).

3



Yet a typical remark often made to astrologers goes something like this: “I’m a Capricorn, but when I read those
descriptions of Capricorn, they don’t describe me very accurately.”

Remember, the Sun sign is just the start of your portrait, the broad strokes. You also have a Moon in your
birth chart, and it’s probably in a different sign from the one the Sun is in. You have planets in your birth chart,
and each may be in a different sign.

You are a complex and unique combination, unlike anyone else. Any attempt to give an accurate description
from only a Sun sign falls into the kind of error H. L. Mencken was referring to when he remarked that “for
every complicated problem, there is a solution that is short, simple, and wrong.”

Only by studying the entire birth chart can an astrologer begin to get a complete picture of a personality. Even
then, there is a certain latitude for error simply because human beings are not carved in stone. We change a little
every day and with every person we meet. Love, tragedy, success—each circumstance of life alters us. However, the
essential person remains. And the Sun sign is the outline of that essence.

Astrology is a fascinating tool for the study of human nature. When you first meet someone, that person is a
mystery. You see the color of eyes and hair, the mode of dress, whether he or she is tall or short. You must wait
for further information to know anything more. If you know the person’s Sun sign, you can put a few pieces of
the puzzle together. But, just as when you are beginning a complex jigsaw puzzle, too many pieces are missing.
The Sun sign merely gives you an edge, an extra insight that you would not otherwise possess.

Of course, knowledge of Sun signs is not only useful in casual social meetings. It is invaluable in close rela-
tionships. If your Cancer husband nags and criticizes, you’ll know it’s just his way of showing how much he
cares about you. If your ten-year-old Virgo daughter acts like a premature old maid, fussing about putting every-
thing exactly where she wants it, you’ll understand why she needs to have her possessions neatly arranged.
Knowing how scattered and forgetful a Gemini can be, you will find it easier to forgive your Gemini lover when
your birthday present shows up two days late.

Most important of all, an understanding of your own Sun sign will give you an added measure of self-
knowledge, a deeper insight into the stranger that is yourself.

4 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8 To begin with, the twelve signs of the zodiac are di-
vided into several sets of groups, or numbers. They are di-

Some Astrological Background on the Twelve vided into twos, threes, fours, and sixes.
Signs of the Zodiac

Dualities
In the 5,000 years that have passed since the study of as-
trology was first recorded, the twelve signs of the zodiac The twelve signs are divided into two groups, mascu-

have acquired special associations, characterizations, and line and feminine. Six signs are masculine, and six signs

meanings. are feminine. This is known as the sign’s duality. In astro-

Hundreds of years before the time of Christ, Greek logical terms, a masculine sign is direct and energetic; a

philosophers formulated the theory of Man in Micro- feminine sign is receptive and magnetic. These masculine

cosm—that is, the human being is a miniature version of and feminine attributes were given to the signs about

the cosmos. According to this concept, everything in nature 2,000 years ago. Today modern astrologers try to avoid

has a parallel in human beings, and thus humankind and the sexism implicit in these distinctions. A masculine sign

the universe are linked together in a system of correlations. does not mean “positive and forceful” any more than a

Out of this idea, known as the Hermetic Theory, sprang feminine sign means “negative and weak.” In modern ter-

such divinatory arts as palmistry, which holds that the solar minology, the masculine signs are defined as outer-

system corresponds to various parts of the human hand. directed and strong through action. The feminine signs 

In keeping with the Hermetic Theory, a vast body of are self-contained and strong through inner reserves.

correspondences grew up surrounding the twelve signs of
the zodiac. Many of these affinities date back thousands of A R I E S Masculine

years. Most were known when Claudius Ptolemy recorded G E M I N I Masculine

them in his definitive astrological treatise, the Tetrabiblos, L E O Masculine

during the second century A.D. Some knowledge is more L I B R A Masculine

recent: the three modern planets, for example, were only S AG I T TA R I U S Masculine

discovered within the last 250 years,* and with their dis- AQ UA R I U S Masculine

covery have come new associations and definitions.
One could say that each astrological sign is a miniature TAU RU S Feminine

Book of Knowledge, and all twelve put together give a pic- C A N C E R Feminine

ture of human beings, our bodies, minds, and emotions, V I R G O Feminine

and of the surrounding world in which we live. S C O R P I O Feminine

Like an intricate Chinese box, the zodiac is a whole en- C A P R I C O R N Feminine

tity that can be taken apart and examined in different ways. P I S C E S Feminine

*The three modern planets are Uranus (1781), Neptune (1846), and Pluto (1930).

S u n  S i g n s  •  5



Triplicities Sagittarius, and Pisces. Mutable signs are flexible, versatile,
and adaptable. They are able to adjust to differing circum-

The twelve signs are also divided into four groups con- stances.

taining three signs each. Each three-sign group is called a
triplicity, and each of these triplicities denotes an element. 3
The four elements are Fire, Earth, Air, and Water. In as- You will notice that each of the twelve signs falls into a dif-

trology, an element symbolizes a fundamental characteri- ferent combination. No one sign in the zodiac has exactly

zation of the sign. the same duality, element, and quality as another sign. For

Three signs are fire signs. They are Aries, Leo, and example, Aries is a Masculine, Fire, Cardinal sign; there is

Sagittarius. Fire signs are active and enthusiastic. no other Masculine, Fire, Cardinal sign in the zodiac.

Three signs are earth signs. They are Taurus, Virgo, and Because each sign is a unique combination, each sign

Capricorn. Earth signs are practical and stable. expresses the characteristics of its quality, element, and

Three signs are air signs. They are Gemini, Libra, and duality differently.

Aquarius. Air signs are intellectual and communicative. Example: Aries is Masculine, meaning it is active rather

Three signs are water signs. They are Cancer, Scorpio, than receptive; Fire, meaning it is excitable and energetic;

and Pisces. Water signs are emotional and intuitive. Cardinal, meaning it is outgoing and open to new experi-
ences. The sign of Leo is also Masculine and Fire, but unlike

Quadruplicities Aries (which is Cardinal) Leo is Fixed. Therefore Leo is ex-

Next, the twelve signs are divided into three groups troverted and passionate like Aries, but also firm in its opin-

containing four signs each. Each four-sign group is called ions, convinced of being on the side of truth in its passions,

a quadruplicity, and each of these quadruplicities denotes and not as willing as Aries to abandon an unworkable plan

a quality. The three qualities are Cardinal, Fixed, and Mu- and go on to something new.

table. In astrology, the quality signifies the sign’s interac-
Polarities

tion with the outside world.
Four signs are cardinal * signs. They are Aries, Cancer, Finally, the twelve signs are divided into six groups

Libra, and Capricorn. Cardinal signs are enterprising and containing two signs each. Each two-sign group is called a

outgoing. They are the initiators. polarity (meaning “opposite”). Each sign in the zodiac has

Four signs are fixed signs. They are Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, a polarity, which is its opposite sign in the other half of

and Aquarius. Fixed signs are resistant to change. They are the zodiac. The two signs express opposite characteristics.

perfectors and finishers, rather than originators. Aries and Libra are a polarity. Aries is the sign of self.

Four signs are mutable signs. They are Gemini, Virgo, The opposite sign, Libra, is the sign of partnership.

*When the Sun crosses the four cardinal points in the zodiac, we mark the beginning of each of our four seasons: Aries begins spring; Cancer be-
gins summer; Libra begins fall; Capricorn begins winter.

6 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Taurus and Scorpio are a polarity. Taurus is the sign of only in Boston and raising morning glories in your win-
personal possessions. The opposite sign, Scorpio, is the dow box. The affinities to various colors, jewels, places,
sign of legacies and shared possessions. flowers are simply part of the long, long history of sym-

Gemini and Sagittarius are a polarity. Gemini is the bols and connections that has grown up around the signs
sign of self-expression. The opposite sign, Sagittarius, is of the zodiac.
the sign of philosophy and higher thinking, of expression Sometimes, however, it is fun to experiment with your
on a wider level. zodiacal affinities. I have a client, for example, who gives

Cancer and Capricorn are a polarity. Cancer is the sign “astrological” dinner parties and chooses flowers, table set-
of home life. The opposite sign, Capricorn, is the sign of tings, and food that have certain connections to the zodiacal
public life. signs of her guests. Another client, who is a Gemini, recently

Leo and Aquarius are a polarity. Leo is the sign of per- took a trip to Melbourne, Australia, simply because of the
sonal pleasure and creativity. The opposite sign, Aquarius, affinity of his sign for that distant city. He wrote me ec-
is the sign of hopes and ideals on a large scale. statically: “The minute I stepped off the plane I just knew

Virgo and Pisces are a polarity. Virgo is the sign of work that I was truly at home!”
and self-improvement. The opposite sign, Pisces, is the Part of the fascination of astrology is in its complexity;
sign of dreams and self-delusion. the various associations and symbolism surrounding the

twelve signs are part of that rich tapestry. No two astrolog-
3 ical signs are alike. Each one is different and unique. Each

Each of the twelve signs is attached to special associations holds clues to who we are and the things and places to
in the outer world. There are lucky numbers, lucky days of which we are drawn.
the week, special colors, plants, metals, jewels, cities, etc.
Each sign also has particular pitfalls and areas of danger What Is Your Sun Sign?
attached to it. The dates listed for each Sun sign may vary by a day or

In this modern day, however, some of these associa- two in certain years. To be sure of your exact Sun sign,
tions are quoted more for amusement than for guidance look up the year and month of your birth in the Sun Ta-
and instruction. Astrologers do not seriously suggest that bles starting on page 425 or cast your chart using the en-
if you are Aries you will like only the color red and wear closed CD-ROM.
diamonds, or if you are Virgo you will be happy living

S u n  S i g n s  •  7



Aries
( m a r c h  2 1  –  a p r i l  1 9 )

7
DUALITY Masculine
TRIPLICITY (ELEMENT) Fire
QUADRUPLICITY (QUALITY) Cardinal

Aries is active, energetic, excitable and impulsive, optimistic, open to change and new experiences,
RULING PLANET Mars: Ancient god of war, aggression, and conflict. In astrology, Mars’s influence denotes courage,

passion, and competition. It can foster tension and accidents, and rules over fire and danger.
SYMBOL The Ram: Assertive, sexual, able to climb to great heights.
GLYPH ( WRITTEN SYMBOL) The pictograph represents the horns and long nose of the Ram. It also pic-

tures the eyebrows and nose of the human face (the head is the part of anatomy that Aries rules). In symbolic
terms, the glyph is two half moons joined by a straight line, which indicates idealism tied to authority and leader-
ship.

DOMINANT KEYWORD I AM.
POLARITY Libra:

Aries is a “me-first” sign. People with Aries tendencies strongly project their own personalities and can be very
self-oriented. Libra, which is Aries’s opposite sign, is the sign of partnership. Natives of Libra feel incomplete with-
out a partner or lover, and strive for happiness as a pair.

PART OF THE BODY RULED BY ARIES The head: Aries people are prone to headaches, and subject to minor
injuries around the head and face.

LUCKY DAY Tuesday    LUCKY NUMBERS 1 and 9
MAGICAL BIRTHSTONE Diamond: Attracts love, financial success, and brings luck in new ventures. The diamond

is particularly lucky for Aries people when worn on the left side of the body.
SPECIAL COLOR Red: The color of fire and excitement.
CITIES Florence, Naples, Verona, Marseilles   COUNTRIES England, Germany, Poland  
FLOWERS Geranium, Honeysuckle, Sweet Pea   TREES All thorn-bearing trees
METAL Iron 
ANIMALS RULED BY ARIES Sheep and, especially, rams
DANGER Aries people are susceptible to harm from fire and sharp instruments. They are also prone to accidents in-

volving high speed, and tend to get into violent and dangerous situations.

8 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
Your Most Likeable Trait

COURAGE

Aries  is  the first sign of the zodiac, the sign lucky if they can get a word in edgewise. If someone brings
that symbolizes new beginnings. It connotes quick up a topic, you will be delighted to tell in great detail ex-

changes and sudden forks in the road. Your life is marked actly what you think about it.
by arriving at a certain place and then being turned in a As an Aries person you gravitate toward the center of
new direction. Certainly, one can say your life is adventur- action. You are audacious and intent on getting your own
ous! way. Since your nature is to express power, you treat oppo-

There is a dynamic restlessness to the Aries character. sition as an annoyance to be brushed out of the way. You
With the Sun in this sign, you are an activist and doer. If are a natural leader who exudes self-confidence. From an
you have a new plan or idea—if an enterprise strikes your early age you feel you are headed for success.
fancy—you can’t wait to plunge right in. The amusing lit- Happily, you are also generous about helping others in
tle prayer, “Grant me patience NOW!” is typical of the a crisis. You are an openhearted friend who shares ideas
Arien attitude. and advice, and likes to pick up the check. You have a

When others first meet you their instant impression is quality of largesse. You are not interested in the small or
of someone exciting, vibrant, talkative. Others will be petty. “Go for the best” is your motto.

S u n  S i g n s  •  9



There is nothing faint or half-hearted about an Arien. Your aggressive and combative spirit cannot be broken by
Whereas others may be more cautious, you actually enjoy anyone—except yourself.
living on the edge. A touch of recklessness makes you feel One of the pitfalls of being an Aries is that you’re es-
alive. The chase is always more thrilling than getting the sentially self-involved. Unless you make an effort to look
goal. (As one Aries recently remarked rather insightfully, outward at others and their feelings, you can easily be-
“Wanting is always better than getting.”) You are willing to come a spoiled brat.
take a gamble, follow a dream, set your mind on a goal, Though generally sincere and honest, you will tell a
and pursue it with irresistible enthusiasm. Your supreme white lie if it seems advantageous. You are not a very adept
quality of optimism attracts others. Underneath there may liar, however; others see right through you. Sometimes
lurk insecurity, but no one will ever know about it. you lack tact and diplomacy, but no malice is intended.

This is not to say you don’t get depressed or moody. Sagittarians also lack this quality of tact because they
But the winter of despair doesn’t last a week with Aries. don’t know how to be oblique or roundabout. With you,
You have an uncrackable optimism. It is true, however, tactlessness is an impulsive act—a careless expression of
that Aries people are notorious for taking offense at fan- your innate force. Too often you speak without thinking
cied slights and injuries. Hot tempers and childish and say whatever pops into your mouth, and usually re-
tantrums abound, and your threshold of boredom is ex- gret your impulsiveness later.
tremely low. If success is not immediate, you tend to lose Aries is lucky with money, but has trouble holding on to
interest and go in search of other excitement. As a result, it. You tend to run up big bills, live extravagantly, soar over
patient, plodding types often get to the head of the class budget. However, you usually find a way to pay off what you
before you do. owe. You have too much pride to remain in anyone’s debt.

Ariens have a well-deserved reputation for not finish- In friendship you give magnanimously if someone is in
ing what they have begun. You are very short of patience, need, but you want to get credit for your good deeds. In
and your lack of stick-to-itiveness is your weak spot. Also, the garden of Aries, there are few shrinking violets.
you spend your energy in too many different ways, like the You are creative, openhearted, high-spirited, pioneer-
Ring Lardner hero who mounted a horse and rode off in ing, also vain, feisty, and impatient. Those who deal with
all directions at once. you on an intimate basis will have one chief problem:

Independence is a keyword. You can turn sulky and How are they going to keep up the pace?
peevish if you have to take orders. You would much rather
be the world’s largest lizard than the world’s smallest The Inner You
dragon. You want to run the whole show. If you can’t, you You like to be in charge—you want to control your
pull up stakes and look for a situation in which you can own projects and plans and not be under anyone else’s
show off your style and brilliance. Should you come up thumb. You have an intense drive to succeed and put a lot
against a superior force, you will bend but never break. of pressure on yourself. Inside, you’re filled with nervous

1 0 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



energy and worry about how you’re going to handle every- How Others See You
thing. You hate to be bored; you’re always looking for

Your upbeat, magnetic personality pulls people toward
something different—new people and places that promise

you—you bring excitement into their lives. They envy
excitement and adventure. You have very little patience;

your aggressiveness in meeting a challenge. Whatever the
you need to practice sticking things out. You’re also impa-

problem, you give the impression that you have an answer
tient with people who can’t resolve a problem. You believe

ready. You’re also admired for your honesty; you don’t
in taking action. What you do have are great generosity

gloss over difficulties. What people don’t like is your ten-
and enthusiasm. And although you suffer from occasional

dency toward bossiness and your deserved reputation for
self-doubt, you know that if you really want to do some-

being sharp-tongued. They’re afraid to cross you in an ar-
thing, you can!

gument because they know you can cut them to the quick.

S u n  S i g n s  •  1 1



8
Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  S u n  i n  A r i e s

Maya Angelou Isak Dinesen Peyton Manning Omar Sharif
Johann Sebastian Bach Celine Dion Eugene McCarthy Stephen Sondheim
Alec Baldwin David Frost Steve McQueen Edward Steichen
Warren Beatty Robert Frost Ann Miller Rod Steiger
Marlon Brando James Garner Dudley Moore Gloria Steinem
Matthew Broderick John Gielgud Eddie Murphy Leopold Stokowski
Charles Chaplin Alec Guinness Leonard Nimoy Gloria Swanson
Cesar Chavez Hugh Hefner Rosie O’Donnell Arturo Toscanini
Tom Clancy Billie Holiday Sarah Jessica Parker Spencer Tracy
Billy Collins Harry Houdini Danica Patrick Peter Ustinov
Joan Crawford Henry James Gregory Peck Ludwig Mies Van Der Rohe
Russell Crowe Thomas Jefferson Anthony Perkins Vincent van Gogh
Clarence Darrow Elton John Mary Pickford Andrew Lloyd Webber
Bette Davis Keira Knightley Colin Powell Thornton Wilder
Doris Day David Letterman Sergei Rachmaninoff Tennessee Williams
Daniel Day-Lewis Ali MacGraw Diana Ross Florenz Ziegfeld

Colin Powell Peyton Manning Maya Angelou

1 2 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Taurus
( A p r i l  2 0  –  M ay  2 0 )

7
DUALITY Feminine
TRIPLICITY (ELEMENT) Earth
QUADRUPLICITY (QUALITY) Fixed

Taurus is quiet, affectionate, patient, stable, determined and practical, stubborn, and resistant to change.
RULING PLANET Venus: Roman goddess of beauty and the arts, pleasure, emotions. In astrology, Venus’s influence in-

clines toward a love of luxury and exceptional creative ability.
SYMBOL The Bull: Strong, stubborn, plodding, can be both fierce and gentle.
GLYPH (WRITTEN SYMBOL) The pictograph represents the horns and head of the Bull. It also outlines the chin

and Adam’s apple of the human throat (the part of the anatomy that Taurus rules). In symbolic terms, the glyph is a
half-moon forming a cup that rests on the circle of the Sun. The cup represents material power and wealth derived
through the force of will (the circle).

DOMINANT KEYWORD I HAVE.
POLARITY Scorpio:

Taurus is the sign of property and money. Its natives put a high regard on collecting possessions and are known to
cling to what is theirs. Scorpio, Taurus’s opposite sign, is the sign of legacies and shared wealth. The wealth of Scorpio
people tends to be spiritual rather than material, which they give to others in the form of teaching, writing, and the
healing arts.

PART OF THE BODY RULED BY TAURUS Neck and throat: Many Taurus people have beautiful speaking and
singing voices. But they are vulnerable to colds, laryngitis, sore throats, and thyroid problems.

LUCKY DAY Friday   LUCKY NUMBERS 6 and 4
MAGICAL BIRTHSTONE Emerald: Protects against infidelity and deceit, ensures loyalty, and improves memory.
SPECIAL COLORS Pale blue and mauve: The soft colors of refinement and gentleness.
CITIES Dublin, Lucerne, Leipzig, St. Louis   COUNTRIES Ireland, Switzerland, Cyprus, Greece  
FLOWERS Violet and Poppy    TREES Cypress and Apple 
METAL Copper 
ANIMALS RULED BY TAURUS Cattle
DANGER Taurus people have a tendency to get involved in violent situations that have to do with love or money. They of-

ten antagonize others and incite the passions of lovers because of their stubbornness and possessiveness.

S u n  S i g n s  •  1 3



8
Your Most Likeable Trait

DEPENDABILITY

You are the person others count on in the clutch, make it a success. You are the original immovable object and
the one who perseveres when less determined spirits fall irresistible force.

by the wayside. Because perseverance is the quality most Taurus is a fixed sign, which means its natives are not
needed for success, you tend to be successful. fond of change. You simply cannot be rushed into anything

You are not the pioneer who first strikes out for new ter- new. A different approach creates unease and anxiety in
ritory, but the determined settler who follows and builds you. You are most comfortable and secure with the familiar,
houses and towns and cultivates the soil. If you were born and your attitude might be summed up as “If everything is
under this second sign of the zodiac, there is a pronounced working fine the way it is, why try something new?”
stubborn streak in you. Your greatest strength resides in your Everyone knows you have a temper, although you rarely
tenacity and steady, relentless drive. You are a purposeful show it. As a subordinate remarked of a Taurean executive,
achiever who has endless patience to see a thing through, to “No one actually saw him lose his temper, but no one ever

1 4 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



doubted that he had one.” Generally, you are equable and byword. You look for permanence in career, love, mar-
patient, as patient as time itself, and it is only when op- riage, and home. Let others gad about, jet-set, gallivant,
posed (even then, it will take a lot of pushing) that you be- and sleep around. You are happiest at home, surrounded
come angry. However, there is volcanic activity going on by the beautiful, expensive things you have collected, se-
underneath your easygoing, genial exterior. Like a bull cure in the warmth of a mate’s devotion, steadfast and
quietly grazing in a pasture, you’re not looking to chal- faithful to those whom you love.
lenge anyone, but it would be a fatal mistake for anyone to Beneath the surface you are sensuous and sentimental.
challenge you. You don’t give lavish gifts as tokens of affection because

However, unless someone seriously provokes the fierce you are not a carefree spender—value is what you expect
side to your personality, you are like Ferdinand the Bull, for your hard-earned dollar. Although you are willing to
the gentle cartoon character who loves to sit and smell the follow where your heart leads, you find it difficult to dis-
flowers. You are caring, giving, and affectionate, and have a play your feelings openly. Your personality is private and
great fondness for all things beautiful. Ruled by Venus, god- self-contained.
dess of love and beauty, you are endowed with genuine cre- Living with you isn’t always easy. You can be dogmatic,
ative gifts, responsive to color and design, inspired by art secretive, stingy, opinionated, and suspicious, and your
and music. The Taurean taste is supremely elegant. You silent manner may conceal feelings of envy and rivalry. It’s
have a keen eye for what is valuable and are usually an avid hard to get you moving, for you tend to be self-indulgent,
collector. Indeed, you were born under one of the two even lazy.
money signs in the zodiac (Cancer is the other one), for You have great stores of energy, however, which you put
Taurus represents material possessions. It’s a rare native of to use when you want to—not when others want you to.
this sign who does not think that possessions, objets, Venus emphasizes the social side of Taurus. Although
wealth, and money are definitely for having—and the more basically shy and reserved with strangers, you can be a
the better. wonderful host or hostess. You like to entertain those you

Others are fascinated by your rare blending of a down- are fond of. You may not indulge as freely in frivolous
to-earth person who is such a romantic, poetic sort. In Tau- pleasures as, say, Leo or Libra natives, but you are
rus, the stability of an earth sign combines with the esthetic renowned for enjoying good food and good wine in plush
influence of Venus to create a responsible, steadfast personal- surroundings. You believe in pampering yourself with the
ity with a deep appreciation for the finer aspects of life. comforts of the good life.
Again and again, you’ll find that the unique pairing of your As a person born under this sign, you are an endearing
artistic vision with your determination to reach a goal is one combination of the dependable and sensible, the sensitive
of the great secrets to your success. and emotional. Inside every practical, stolid-seeming Tau-

You are also driven by the search for security—your rean, there is a romantic dreamer struggling to get out.

S u n  S i g n s  •  1 5



The Inner You How Others See You
You need order in your life—you get anxious when You’re thought of as a serene influence, someone to

things are out of control. And because the unfamiliar depend on, and you’re admired for your organized mind.
makes you feel insecure, you tend to cut yourself off from Not many people realize that you’re sensitive and easily
fresh experiences. You need to be more open to change. wounded. You are trusted as a tastemaker, and your artis-
Having beautiful things is important to you, and your in- tic and esthetic opinion is welcomed. Because you have
stinct for collecting even spills over into relationships. You sound instincts about money, your financial advice is also
hold fast to those you care about. You have a few close sought. On the other hand, people resent your tendency to
friends rather than many casual acquaintances. In love, be dogmatic. Even if you’re right, others don’t understand
you’re happiest when involved in a caring, committed re- why you have to be so unyielding.
lationship. You’re deeply sensitive—a rebuff or harsh word
is very upsetting to you—and with strangers, you often
feel self-conscious. 

1 6 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  S u n  i n  Tau ru s

Akon Kirsten Dunst Sugar Ray Leonard Roberta Peters
Ann-Margret Albert Finney Leonardo da Vinci Michelle Pfeiffer
Fred Astaire Ella Fitzgerald Liberace Ezio Pinza
Mary Astor Henry Fonda Anita Loos Pope John Paul II
Burt Bacharach Sigmund Freud Joe Louis Sergei Prokofiev 
Stephen Baldwin Martha Graham Karl Marx Anthony Quinn
Lionel Barrymore Ulysses S. Grant Rod McKuen Bertrand Russell
Candice Bergen William Randolph Hearst Shirley MacLaine Pete Seeger
Irving Berlin Joseph Heller Bernard Malamud William Shakespeare
Yogi Berra Audrey Hepburn Tim McGraw Benjamin Spock
Cate Blanchett Katharine Hepburn Golda Meir James Stewart
Johannes Brahms Glenda Jackson Yehudi Menuhin Barbra Streisand
Carol Burnett Janet Jackson Patrice Munsel Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky
George Carlin Reggie Jackson Vladimir Nabokov Shirley Temple
Cher Bianca Jagger Willie Nelson Uma Thurman
George Clooney Jasper Johns Jack Nicholson Harry S. Truman
Stephen Colbert Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson Florence Nightingale Rudolph Valentino
Perry Como Grace Jones Ryan O’Neal Orson Welles
Gary Cooper Harper Lee Al Pacino
Bing Crosby Jay Leno Eva Perón

Pope John Paul II Stephen Colbert Audrey Hepburn

S u n  S i g n s  •  1 7



Gemini
( M ay  2 1  –  Ju n e  2 0 )

7
DUALITY Masculine
TRIPLICITY (ELEMENT) Air
QUADRUPLICITY (QUALITY) Mutable

Gemini is lively, energetic, versatile, and intellectual, lives primarily in the mind rather than the emotions, and is ex-
tremely adaptable to new situations.

RULING PLANET Mercury: Ancient messenger of the gods. In astrology, Mercury rules communication and travel. Its
influence emphasizes quick cleverness and a nervous temperament.

SYMBOL The Twins: Associated with duality, humanism, versatility, communication.
GLYPH (WRITTEN SYMBOL) The pictograph represents the two figures of the Twins. The dual symbol also pic-

tures the human arms or lungs (the parts of the body that Gemini rules). In symbolic terms, two upright lines
bounded by top and bottom lines represent wisdom, learning, and the powers of the mind to synthesize information.

DOMINANT KEYWORD I THINK.
POLARITY Sagittarius:

Gemini is the sign of thought and communication on a personal level. Natives of Gemini strive for self-expression, and
try to impose their point of view on others. Sagittarius, which is Gemini’s opposite sign, is the sign governing the wider
provenance of philosophy and mental exploration. Sagittarian people tend to shrink from close personal involvement
and, unlike Gemini, are shaped by what others think of them.

PART OF THE BODY RULED BY GEMINI Hands, arms, shoulders, and lungs: Geminis are susceptible to strains
and accidents involving arms and hands; also prone to bronchitis and respiratory ailments.

LUCKY DAY Wednesday    LUCKY NUMBERS 5 and 9
MAGICAL BIRTHSTONE Agate: A multicolored precious stone that protects from deception and falsehood, and bestows

eloquence, especially in declarations of love.
SPECIAL COLOR Yellow: Bright and luminous, the color of novelty.
CITIES London, San Francisco, Versailles, Melbourne   COUNTRIES United States, Wales, Belgium  
FLOWERS Lily of the Valley and Lavender   TREES Nut-bearing trees 
METAL Mercury 
ANIMALS RULED BY GEMINI Brightly colored birds and butterflies
DANGER Gemini people are prone to accidents while traveling, especially by air. Their fickle natures also tend to arouse

unexpected anger in others, the depth of which Geminis often misjudge.

1 8 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
Your Most Likeable Trait

RESPONSIVENESS

People born under this sign are many-sided, Unlike Leo, who wants only to be the star, Gemini wants
quick in thought and action, clever with words, skill- to play all the parts—and be the director, the producer,

ful at handling others, brimful of new ideas. and the stagehand!
Astrologers regard this third sign of the zodiac as the Duality is your most famous trait. You usually want

quintessentially human sign, for it seems to sum up quali- more than one of everything. That includes jobs, hobbies,
ties that are the distinguishing hallmarks of the human careers, and lovers. Basically your nature is restless, on the
race—intelligence (Gemini is an air sign), adaptability go, in quest of new ideas and fresh experiences. Things get
(Gemini is a mutable sign), and communicativeness very dull for you unless you have a constant change of
(Gemini is ruled by Mercury). scenery. Variety is your game. As a result, you often leave a

Gemini people do not sit back and watch the scenery trail of unfinished tasks. Your tendency is to fritter away
go by. As a Gemini, you are endlessly curious about every- energy on too many projects instead of concentrating your
thing and must be part of the busy passing scene. If all the cleverness on one task.
world’s a stage, Gemini must be the actor on that stage. Gemini is the sign of communication, and its natives

S u n  S i g n s  •  1 9



have an urgent and continual need to communicate. You born with the Sun in Gemini are Sir Arthur Conan Doyle,
enjoy writing notes, chatting with strangers, surfing the Dashiell Hammett, Lillian Hellman, Laurence Olivier,
web, tossing off e-mails, IM’s, and text messages—and the Marilyn Monroe, and Judy Garland.
telephone is a major means of communication. People Amusing, versatile and witty, you are a wonderful
should learn not to give you their number if they don’t friend who lifts people out of their doldrums. Does some-
like to spend a lot of time on the phone! one need advice? Instruction? An introduction? You’re

Your astrological symbol should really be the question right there, ready to jump in, and others are energized by
mark. You’re a perpetual student of life who never stops your enthusiasm. It’s easy to see why you are usually sur-
asking questions. You love to talk to people, and this is the rounded by friends and admirers because you’re such fun
great secret of your charm. Others open to you like flow- to be with. True, you can be impatient with persons who
ers. As a result, you’re a marvelous people-manager who aren’t as quick as you are, or who can’t keep up with the
can rev up enthusiasm and loyalty. rapid flow of your thought and speech. However, your nat-

Born with the gift of persuasion, you could sell ice in ural exuberance sweeps even the most reluctant and surly
Greenland. Your quick mind can explain any action, defend along with you. In almost any situation you can be as
any position, justify any course. A mental magpie, you pick charming as you want to be—with a little extra thrown in.
up information here, gossip there, tidbits everywhere. This

Life is a jest and all things show it;
makes you an ideal conversationalist, for you know a little

I thought so once and now I know it,
about everything, though, some have said, not a lot about
anything. You also are inclined to have firm opinions on spells out the philosophy of Gemini. You don’t waste time
everything (subject to revision at a moment’s notice). What plumbing dark emotional depths, and you certainly don’t
you value most is intellectual independence, and what you want to get sucked into anyone’s problems that might sab-
lack most is perseverance. otage your freedom. Though you do have a brooding side

Another Gemini weakness is superficiality. Because to your Jekyll and Hyde disposition, you determinedly put
you are so quick to grasp an idea or size up a situation, on a cheerful face so you make the best impression. You try
you tend to skim its surface, not bothering to explore it in not to let anything dampen your high spirits or throw cold
any depth. The other side of the coin, however, is that with water on the fun and games.
very little preparation you can make a marvelous initial Geminis have a wide range of contacts and benefit
impression. from the advice and help of influential people. You will at-

Your facile gifts of writing, speaking, and self-expres- tract financial luck, but a tendency toward extravagance
sion make you a success in dealing with the public. You often more than offsets it. In your ledger, income always
have a quicksilver personality that can adapt to many adds up to something a little short of outgo.
kinds of people. You are often drawn to the stage and the Routine and monotony are two things you dread, and
dramatic arts. Among famous writers and performers you will go to any lengths to avoid them. Change is your

2 0 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



keyword, and what you value most is freedom. It’s useless giving, but you also need time for yourself. You like to per-
for anyone to try to pin you down. For you, the fun is in form, using your wit and intelligence to move to center
traveling, not in arriving at a destination. You love to ex- stage. You love to gossip, mostly because you find out such
plore new territory, see the way people live on the other interesting things! You’re generous with your time, friend-
side of the world. Inquisitive and imaginative, you are ship, and possessions. One problem is that instead of look-
open to a different way of looking at things. Your trendy, ing at people’s deeper qualities, you tend to judge them by
up-to-date lifestyle has you constantly living off the fad of their reaction to you. Are you coming off well; are you
the land. mesmerizing them?

For the sheer fascination of it, people should have at
least one Gemini in their lives. (Two might be exhausting.) How Others See You

People like to be around you because you’re interesting
The Inner You and amusing. They admire you for your talent with words
You react instantly to new situations, but because and sense of humor. Although you’re considered more of a

you’re so keenly attuned to your environment, you tend to cerebral type, friends trust your judgment about emo-
have a nervous temperament. And though you give off tional matters. They also know you’ll jump in to help
sparks of energy, excitement, and charm, inside you feel when asked. Only those closest to you know you can be
like a wound-up spring. Others are fascinated by your en- moody and discouraged. When crossed you can be sarcas-
thusiasm while inwardly you’re already bored with this tic, which makes some people think you’re arrogant.
person or that project. In your relationships, you’re very

S u n  S i g n s  •  2 1



8
Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  S u n  i n  G e m i n i

Paula Abdul Ralph Waldo Emerson Allen Iverson Marilyn Monroe Maurice Sendak
Tim Allen Douglas Fairbanks Angelina Jolie Bill Moyers Tupac Shakur
F. Lee Bailey Ian Fleming Tom Jones Joe Namath Brooke Shields
Josephine Baker Errol Flynn Louis Jourdan Liam Neeson Harriet Beecher 
Annette Bening Michael J. Fox John F. Kennedy Joyce Carol Oates Stowe
Mel Blanc Judy Garland Nicole Kidman Jacques Offenbach Richard Strauss
George Bush Paul Gauguin Henry Kissinger Laurence Olivier William Styron
Rachel Carson Lou Gehrig Anna Kournikova Frank Oz Kathleen Turner
Rosemary Clooney Allen Ginsberg Lenny Kravitz Cole Porter Donald Trump
Joan Collins Benny Goodman Hugh Laurie Prince Richard Wagner
Courtney Cox Steffi Graf Peggy Lee Alexander Pushkin Kanye West
Jacques Cousteau Che Guevara Federico García Lorca Basil Rathbone Ruth Westheimer
Mario Cuomo Nathan Hale Robert Ludlum Sally Ride Walt Whitman
Tony Curtis Marvin Hamlisch Paul McCartney Joan Rivers Gene Wilder
Johnny Depp Dashiell Hammett Malcolm McDowell Isabella Rossellini Hank Williams Jr.
Arthur Conan Doyle Lillian Hellman Larry McMurtry Henri Rousseau Venus Williams
Albrecht Dürer Bob Hope Barry Manilow Salman Rushdie Herman Wouk
Bob Dylan Gerard Manley Hopkins Thomas Mann Marquis de Sade Frank Lloyd Wright
Clint Eastwood Hubert Humphrey Dean Martin Jean-Paul Sartre William Butler Yeats

Marilyn Monroe John F. Kennedy Paul McCartney

2 2 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Cancer
( Ju n e  2 1  –  Ju ly  2 2 )

7
DUALITY Feminine
TRIPLICITY (ELEMENT) Water
QUADRUPLICITY (QUALITY) Cardinal

Cancer is receptive, sensitive, and imaginative, sympathetic, kind, and emotional, and possesses an active, shrewd, and in-
tuitive mind.

RULING PLANET The Moon: Earth’s one satellite, which waxes and wanes and exerts a powerful magnetic influence. In as-
trology, the Moon governs emotions and intuitive behavior.

SYMBOL The Crab: Possessing an impenetrable exterior covering soft flesh underneath. At the first sign of danger, it with-
draws into its shell and scuttles back to the sea, where it feels safe.

GLYPH (WRITTEN SYMBOL) The pictograph represents the claws of the Crab. It is also a picture of the human breasts
(a part of the anatomy that Cancer rules). In symbolic terms, the glyph is two circles of the Sun connected to two crescent
moons. The moons represent Cancer’s desire to store memories and possessions; the circles tied to the moons represent force
and energy expressed through emotions and imagination.

DOMINANT KEYWORD I FEEL.
POLARITY Capricorn:

Cancer is the sign of home and family life. Cancerians seek close personal relationships and are happiest surrounded by the
familiar and those whom they love. Capricorn, Cancer’s opposite sign, is the sign of reputation and public standing. Natives
of Capricorn are concerned with the image they project, and they search for power and fulfillment in the outside world.

PART OF THE BODY RULED BY CANCER The breasts and stomach: Cancerians love to eat and have to fight weight
gain in later years. They are also subject to digestive ailments caused by tension and emotional stress.

LUCKY DAY Monday    LUCKY NUMBERS 3 and 7
MAGICAL BIRTHSTONE Pearl: Changes bad fortune into good and discord into harmony. It also brings support from in-

fluential people.
SPECIAL COLORS Sea green and silver: The shimmering colors of the water and the moon.
CITIES Venice, Amsterdam, New York, Algiers   COUNTRIES Scotland, Holland, New Zealand  
FLOWERS Larkspur and Acanthus   TREES Trees rich in sap
METAL Silver
ANIMALS RULED BY CANCER Those with shell coverings
DANGER Cancer people are susceptible to accidents in the home. They are also prone to becoming victims of theft.

S u n  S i g n s  •  2 3



8
Your Most Likeable Trait

LOYALTY

No one has ever said Cancerians are easy to un- What’s your secret? Cancer, which is ruled by the Moon
derstand. You may appear gentle, kind, sympathetic, and has water as its element, can be likened to the shifting

and a patient listener. Then someone asks for advice, and tides of the oceans. Like the tides, Cancer is the sign of pow-
you turn cranky, snappish, and appear to be completely in- erful forces moving under the surface. That surface, however,
different to anyone’s problems but your own. You may wal- is quite difficult to penetrate, for Cancerians tend to build up
low in self-pity and complain endlessly about how mis- an elaborate array of defenses to hide their deep feelings and
treated you are by the world. Turn another page of the extreme sensitivity.
calendar and suddenly you are back being helpful, solici- Complex, fragile, unpredictable, temperamental, the
tous, ready to do anything asked of you. More than any typical Cancerian needs constant support and encourage-
other sign, Cancer is a series of contradictions. You prize ment. You want desperately to be loved and approved of
security above all else, yet love new adventure. You are the but resent needing approval so badly. Cancer’s big lesson
soul of caution but you’re also a courageous initiator who is to recognize the hidden anger you carry within you and
goes out of your way to push over obstacles with your driv- not allow this to corrode the relationships that give you
ing personality. the emotional support you seek. Happily, when you get

2 4 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



what you need, you give the best you have in return. Those Cancer’s symbol, the Crab, has a hard outer shell that
who make you feel secure command your undying loyalty. protects soft, vulnerable flesh underneath. The same is
When you really care for someone there is nothing any- true of Cancerians, who are often crusty, gruff, and
one can say about that person that will make the least bit grumpy, but possess a proverbial heart of gold. Beneath
of difference. You have a real blind spot when it comes to your tough exterior you are a sentimental softie who will
seeing a failing in those you love. make any sacrifice for someone in need. If someone asks

If you could wave a magic wand and do the one thing for a favor, your first reaction will probably be no, but the
that would make you happier it is to crack open that Crab final answer is always yes. You should be judged not by
shell and venture out into the world of possibility. Staying what you say but by what you do.
enclosed emotionally and psychically keeps you fearful. You are possessive. Anyone who becomes part of your
Cancer’s fears are based on the fact that you have a difficult life will never again be entirely free. You try to stay in
time trusting. You don’t trust others or the universe or touch with friends, ex-lovers, former spouses, business asso-
yourself. One Cancer told me recently, “We’ve been sold a ciates, persons you knew as children. Cancer is the cosmic
bill of goods by the stories we were told as children. There collector—if you let anyone go out of your life, it is un-
is no joy or happiness in life. Life is just plain hard.” The willingly and never completely. This reflects your preoccu-
problem with this point of view is it leaves very little open- pation with the past. An aura of nostalgia dwells about
ing for any kind of abundance to flow in. It’s hard to see the you; the events and people of bygone years continue to in-
kindness in loved ones or the generosity of strangers or un- habit your memory and usually grow dearer to you as time
expected luck in an arduous situation if one has decided goes by. You are devoted to family and home and continue
from the start that it’s a dog-eat-dog world. to believe in the old-fashioned idea that marriage is for-

Yet most contradictory of all is the fact you’re such a ever—even if the events of your own life contradict this.
nurturer who gives unselfishly to anyone who needs you. It is hard to deceive you, for you can spot the tiniest
Your greatest impact is in human relationships; you have an nuances of behavior. In fact, you are almost psychic in
instinct for making others feel cared for and understood. your intuitions. A photographic memory added to intense
Among your most endearing traits is your loyalty. powers of observation makes you extremely canny about

You tend to be a worrier and a silent brooder. People divining other people’s inner motivations.
may pour out their hearts to you, but the flow never goes Cancerians are crablike in their indirect approach to an
in the other direction. You are cautious about revealing too intended target. Observe a crab moving on a beach and
much of yourself; you guard your secrets well. you will notice its strange sidewise movement toward a

If offended, you do not strike back directly. Your goal. People born under the sign of the Crab never take
method of retaliation is to sulk, and it is often very effec- the direct approach. You step to one side, then step to the
tive. The technique is somewhat like being whipped to other side, and sometimes go completely around. But you
death by a dozen strands of boiled spaghetti. get where you intend to go.

S u n  S i g n s  •  2 5



If channeled in the right direction, your enormous are also extraordinarily in sync with other people’s feel-
sensitivity can be a great source of strength. Once you ings. In fact, you get almost as involved in your friends’
overcome your shyness and touchiness and master your problems as you do in your own. When you’re close to
turbulent emotions, your intellect and imagination enable someone, you believe you are supposed to help that per-
you to become a success in almost anything you under- son. Harmony is important to you—any kind of conflict
take. You have the ability to dig into your own inner life or quarrel leaves you feeling depressed. However, you’re
and turn creativity into practical ideas. Contrary to the definitely not wishy-washy; you have the courage of your
impression you often give, you can be shrewd and canny convictions and the strength to stick up for what you
in business. Cautious, conservative in your approach, you think is right. You don’t welcome change, and are hesitant
possess an antenna that quickly gauges public taste and about going ahead with something untried, yet this does-
opinion and senses new trends in the making. You’re also n’t stop you from doing what has to be done.
an on-the-mark judge of people. You are artistic and cre-
ative, and have formidable intellectual talents. This in- How Others See You
stinct for business combined with imagination is magical Those in your circle think of you as a den mother—
for acquiring financial security, and Cancer is called a the one who tries to fix other people’s problems and make
“money sign” because of its ability to attract wealth. sure everyone is happy. They like your concern for their

Cancer people hold on to money as tenaciously as they well-being and cherish your wise counsel. But why, even if
do to everything that belongs to them. To you money they follow your advice, do they keep it a secret from you?
spells security, yet no matter how much wealth you accu- Because they think you’re controlling and don’t want to be
mulate you never feel really secure. That is true of your a puppet on your string. They also think you’re moody.
emotional security also. A Cancerian never gets enough One minute you seem to care about them, and the next
love and approval; you always need more. It is very easy to you’re crabby and to be avoided at all costs. In your career,
fall in love with this loyal, devoted, affectionate, and pro- you’re viewed as someone who can quickly spot an oppor-
tective Moon-child. tunity for financial gain.

The Inner You
On the surface you’re the picture of calm and strength,

but underneath you tend to feel insecure and inadequate.
You are positive that other people know what they’re do-
ing while you’re just winging it. You also imagine the
worst outcome to a scenario, never the best. You are a very
emotional person; you are constantly feeling. Hearing a
song on the radio makes you feel sentimental, and a par-
ticular scent, flower, or picture can jar your memory. You

2 6 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  S u n  i n  Ca n ce r

Alexander the Great Oscar de la Renta Randy Jackson Ross Perot Sylvester Stallone
Louis Armstrong Diana, Princess Derek Jeter Prince William Barbara Stanwyck
Polly Bergen of Wales Frida Kahlo Marcel Proust Ringo Starr
Ingmar Bergman Phyllis Diller Franz Kafka Gilda Radner Isaac Stern
Bill Blass Marty Feldman Helen Keller Nancy Reagan Patrick Stewart
David Brinkley M. F. K. Fisher Rose Kennedy Erich Maria Remarque Irving Stone
Mel Brooks Harrison Ford Ann Landers Diana Rigg Meryl Streep
Yul Brynner Bob Fosse Janet Leigh Geraldo Rivera Donald Sutherland
George W. Bush Stephen Foster Lindsay Lohan Nelson Rockefeller William Makepeace
James Cagney Erle Stanley Gardner Gina Lollobrigida Ginger Rogers Thackeray
Pierre Cardin John Glenn Sidney Lumet Linda Ronstadt Twyla Tharp
Barbara Cartland Merv Griffin Tobey Maguire Jean-Jacques Rousseau Henry David Thoreau
Marc Chagall Susan Hayward Nelson Mandela Françoise Sagan Mike Tyson
Gower Champion Tom Hanks Mary McCarthy Antoine de Abigail Van Buren
John Chancellor Nathaniel Hawthorne George McGovern Saint-Exupéry James Whistler
Van Cliburn Ernest Hemingway Marshall McLuhan George Sand E. B. White
Jean Cocteau Al Hirschfeld Bess Myerson Carly Simon Billy Wilder
Bill Cosby Judy Holliday Clifford Odets Neil Simon Robin Williams
Tom Cruise Lena Horne George Orwell Jessica Simpson Andrew Wyeth
Olivia de Havilland Anjelica Huston Camilla Parker-Bowles Jimmy Smits

Princess Diana George W. Bush Ernest Hemingway

S u n  S i g n s  •  2 7



Leo
( Ju ly  2 3  –  Au g u s t  2 2 )

7
DUALITY Masculine
TRIPLICITY (ELEMENT) Fire
QUADRUPLICITY (QUALITY) Fixed
Leo is enthusiastic, powerful, expansive and creative, generous and extravagant, dogmatic and fixed in opinion.
RULING PLANET The Sun: Center of our solar system, a star that burns with intense fire and supplies us with light,

heat, and energy. In astrology, the Sun is the most powerful planetary influence, bestowing vitality and authority.
SYMBOL The Lion: Regal, brave, dominating, sometimes indolent. Possessing nobility and pride.
GLYPH (WRITTEN SYMBOL) The pictograph represents two valves of the human heart (a part of the anatomy

that Leo rules). It is also the Greek symbol for the first letter of Leo. In symbolic terms, it is two incomplete circles of
the Sun joined by a crescent Moon, symbolizing power derived from both the intellect and the emotions.

DOMINANT KEYWORD I WILL.
POLARITY Aquarius:

Leo is the sign that governs pleasure and creativity. Natives of Leo look for what they can get out of life for them-
selves, and tend to dominate others. Aquarius, Leo’s opposite sign, is the sign of hopes and wishes and the higher 
aspirations of mankind. Aquarian people are concerned with larger ideals, humanitarian concepts, and are more im-
personal and aloof in their relationships.

PART OF THE BODY RULED BY LEO Back, spine, and the heart: Emotional strain and physical overexertion cause
back and spine ailments in Leo people.

LUCKY DAY Sunday    LUCKY NUMBERS 8 and 9
MAGICAL BIRTHSTONE Ruby: Protects against physical injury and ensures faithfulness. It also brings its wearer

serenity of mind.
SPECIAL COLORS Gold and orange: The magnetic colors of the Sun.
CITIES Rome, Prague, Damascus, Hollywood    COUNTRIES France, Italy, Romania 
FLOWERS Sunflower and Marigold    TREES Orange and all citrus trees
METAL Gold
ANIMALS RULED BY LEO All felines
DANGER Leo people tend to be bombastic and challenging, and often unknowingly provoke others into impulsive vio-

lence. They are also prone to being victims of slander.

2 8 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
Your Most Likeable Trait

EXUBERANCE

Your loyalt y is beyond question. You are devoted the evening. Witty, vivacious, a fluent talker, you are a
to yourself. All Leos possess a kingdom. The kingdom born entertainer who can lend spice to any occasion. Your

may be big or small, it may be your home or a lover or a energy is electric, and people gravitate to you as steel fil-
piece of creative work or your whole career. But whatever ings to a magnet.
it is, you are unquestioningly ruler of this kingdom. Self- Your Sun sign confers a great flair for drama and an in-
assurance surrounds Leo people like a ghost image on a stinct for getting attention. Because your nature is flam-
television set. While others wait in the wings, you bask in boyant and expansive, you despise the humdrum, the ordi-
the spotlight. Whatever you do, you do with a flair for the nary, and the dull. When real life does not supply all the
dramatic—everything about you is theatrical. You don’t excitement you need, you try to create your own. Hyper-
have to look for a role to play in life. You’ve found it. You bole is second nature to you. You are born to do things in
are the monarch of all you survey. a r-r-really big way.

When you enter a room you secretly hope everyone If you invite people to your castle (which is how you
will stand up and sing a few stanzas of the Hallelujah Cho- think of your home), you entertain them royally. You are a
rus! At a party it isn’t long before you assume control of splendid host.

S u n  S i g n s  •  2 9



Others may become reconciled to accepting second because you’re too proud to ask for appreciation, you often
best; not Leos. Born under the most royal sign of the zo- suffer silently from a wounded ego. Your hidden secret is
diac, there is absolutely nothing Leo people can think of you need to be needed.
that’s too good for them. Luxury is as vital to you as In business you are the one in command. Another sign
breathing. You want to enjoy the good life, and never that gravitates toward authority is Capricorn, but its na-
mind what it costs. You are not a good haggler or bar- tives steadily climb toward a high position. Leos simply as-
gainer because basically you want what you want when sume that they were born to high position. One of your
you want it. most useful assets in career is an unerring instinct for get-

Your public image is very important to you. When a ting along with people who are in a position to be helpful.
Leo woman’s checking account is down to two figures You know the value of socializing and work best in group
somehow she’ll find the means to buy a glorious new enterprises rather than solitary pursuits. You’re an order-
dress, and when his credit cards are overdrawn a Leo man giver, not an order-taker, but you’re usually so cheery and
will still make reservations at the best restaurant in town. enthusiastic others don’t mind taking orders from you.
Leos are the most lavish spenders in the zodiac (Librans You are also a hard worker who doesn’t ask more of any-
run a close second). one else than you do of yourself. You won’t quail before a

Generous, kind, and openhearted, you find it hard to challenge or flinch from a confrontation. You will do the
believe ill of others. If injured, you strike back quickly, but thing that scares you because to do otherwise spells failure
you also forgive easily and never hold a grudge. Mar- to your eyes. You are ambitious, but not ruthless. All you
velously affectionate and cheerful, you have genuine joie de ask is to be in the limelight.
vivre. The Sun is your ruler, and you always bring some Among your most striking characteristics is a refusal to
sunshine into the lives of others. Obviously, this is one of be hampered by petty rules. Day-to-day routine quickly
your most endearing traits. In many ways you are like the leads to boredom and makes you desperately unhappy.
Sun itself—life-enhancing, radiating energy and magnet- Your unhappiness doesn’t last long, because you simply
ism, burning with steady fixity. Astrologers call Leos eter- won’t put up with it. You have an unshakable belief in
nal children, for you take pleasure from the moment and your luck and quickly bounce back from despondency.
are uninhibited in giving affection. It is difficult (though not impossible) to dislike a Leo.

No one could ask for a better friend. If approached in the True, you can be bombastic and overbearing at times.
right way (flattery is the right way), you will do almost any- True, you love to give advice and tell people how to run
thing, but you expect praise and appreciation and admira- their lives. Like your symbol, the Lion, you can be quite
tion in return. Pride is your Achilles’ heel. Your ego demands indolent and lazy; you like to sit back and bask in your
not respect but adoration, not compliments but flattery, and own glory. But your great warmth and sunny disposition
when you receive lavish praise you never stop to wonder if it is very hard to resist. The world would be much less fun
is insincere. Despite your self-centeredness, you need others without Leos.
to give to if only to get back their appreciation. However,

3 0 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



The Inner You How Others See You
You have larger-than-life emotions; whether you’re ex- You have a regal quality, a way of standing out in a

periencing joy, despair, excitement, or love, it might as well crowd. The unique combination of the excitement you
be playing on a giant movie screen. You feel you have an project, your sense of style, your way of speaking, and
important role to play in life and you’re going to find it. your laugh is what draws people to you. They’re also se-
You need to be involved in the world; in fact, you tend to duced by the fact that you think big, which feeds their own
think of any plan or project that you’re part of as an ex- fantasies of success and power. They’re attracted to your
tension of who you are. You believe in taking action. Your energy and enthusiasm and your take-charge attitude.
immediate reaction to any problem is to do something They assume you’ll take a leadership position. But some
about it rather than sit around pondering it.  But you’re people dislike what they consider your king-sized ego.
extremely sensitive and you try to hide this fact under a They think you hog the spotlight and that you’re perform-
lot of bravado. It’s very important to you to get others’ ing even when you’re perfectly serious and sincere; they
approval. What makes you special, though, is that in spite question your sincerity. Others regard you as a showoff
of all your inner qualms, you jut out your chin and walk who merely talks a big game. And there are those who
head-on into any challenge. You have a deep-seated need think you have the temperament of a demanding, spoiled
to prove your worth—not to others but to yourself. You’ll child.
tackle any job just so you can say, “I wasn’t afraid to try!”

S u n  S i g n s  •  3 1



8
Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  S u n  i n  L e o

Ben Affleck Ramond Chandler Al Gore Madonna Gene Roddenberry
Gracie Allen Julia Child Melanie Griffith Steve Martin Kenny Rogers
Neil Armstrong Bill Clinton Mata Hari Maureen McGovern J. K. Rowling
Lucille Ball Paula Creamer Alfred Hitchcock Herman Melville Yves Saint Laurent
Antonio Banderas Guy de Maupassant Dustin Hoffman Robert Mitchum Pete Sampras
Count Basie Cecil B. DeMille Whitney Houston Benito Mussolini Arnold Schwarzenegger
Ethel Barrymore Robert De Niro John Huston Annie Oakley George Bernard Shaw
Tony Bennett Elizabeth Dole Aldous Huxley Barack Obama Percy Bysshe Shelley
Simon Bolívar Madame du Barry Mick Jagger Carroll O’Connor Kevin Spacey
Napoleon Bonaparte Marcel Duchamp Peter Jennings Jacqueline Kennedy Danielle Steel
Barry Bonds Leo Durocher Magic Johnson Onassis Martha Stewart
Ray Bradbury Amelia Earhart Carl Jung Peter O’Toole Alfred, Lord Tennyson
Diamond Jim Brady Zelda Fitzgerald Garrison Keillor Dorothy Parker Leon Uris
Sandra Bullock Jerry Garcia Francis Scott Key Maxfield Parrish Andy Warhol
Claus von Bulow Frank Gifford T. E. Lawrence Sean Penn Mae West 
Ken Burns Kathie Lee Gifford Monica Lewinsky Roman Polanski Shelley Winters
Fidel Castro Jeff Gordon Jennifer Lopez Robert Redford Orville Wright

Mick Jagger Madonna Bill Clinton

3 2 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Virgo
( Au g u s t  2 3  –  S e p t e m b e r  2 2 )

7
DUALITY Feminine
TRIPLICITY (ELEMENT) Earth
QUADRUPLICITY (QUALITY) Mutable

Virgo is reserved, modest, practical, discriminating and industrious, analytical and painstaking, seeking to know and
understand.

RULING PLANET Mercury: Ancient god of communication and commerce. In astrology, Mercury rules intelligence and
reason, and predisposes toward a highstrung temperament.

SYMBOL The Virgin: Representing purity of motive, modesty, industriousness, and service of oneself and one’s talents
toward helping others. The virgin is usually pictured holding a sheaf of wheat that symbolizes the utilization of ideas
and skills to benefit (nourish) the world.

GLYPH (WRITTEN SYMBOL) The symbol represents a Virgin, for it is a pictograph of the human reproductive
organs closed and untouched. In symbolic terms, the glyph is a straight line connected to two curved lines, one of
which is crossed. This represents wisdom tied to feeling and emotion, and crossed by practicality.

DOMINANT KEYWORD I ANALYZE.
POLARITY Pisces:

Virgo is the sign of work and self-improvement. Its natives are perfectionists who dissect facts in order to find the truth
and obtain all the information available. Pisces, Virgo’s opposite sign, is the sign of illusion and self-deception. Pis-
ceans are prone to dreaminess, imagination, vagueness, self-delusion, and escapism.

PART OF THE BODY RULED BY VIRGO The nervous system and the intestines: Virgoans are prone to illness
caused by stress and nervous tension. They are particularly susceptible to ulcers.

LUCKY DAY Wednesday    LUCKY NUMBERS 5 and 3
MAGICAL BIRTHSTONE Sapphire: Brings tranquility of mind and protects against illness and injury while traveling.
SPECIAL COLORS Navy Blue and Gray: Classic colors of refinement and taste.
CITIES Paris, Boston, Heidelberg, Strasbourg    COUNTRIES Turkey, Greece, Crete, West Indies
FLOWERS Morning glory and Pansy   TREES Nut-bearing trees 
METAL Mercury 
ANIMALS RULED BY VIRGO Small domestic pets
DANGER Virgo people sometimes arouse anger and violence in others because of their tendency to interfere, their critical

tongues, and their unemotional attitudes.

S u n  S i g n s  •  3 3



8
Your Most Likeable Trait

CONSCIENTIOUSNESS

The real drama of Virgo’s personality is interior. work to most people. You are not a daydreamer, you’re a
To the world you may give an impression of calm au- day-doer.

thority, but you are aware of your own nervous, restless, Your emotional life is a constant striving to bring order
controlled intensity, the desire to be up and doing, re- out of chaos. Although you have a great capacity for love,
arranging, improving. You can exhaust yourself more by love alone is not enough for you to be happy. You need
simply sitting still than others do moving around. more than a mate, home, children, friends. You must jus-

The planet Mercury, which rules both Virgo and Gem- tify your life, conduct yourself as a good bookkeeper keeps
ini, inclines its subjects toward constant activity. However, a ledger—always ready to give a reckoning on whether
in Gemini the nervous energy is directed primarily toward there’s a profit or a loss. You’re ambitious, but not just for
stimulation and adventure, while in Virgo the ceaseless money. You want to know more, to gain in wisdom, and
drive is to accomplish and perfect. It’s impossible for Vir- put this wisdom to practical use.
gos to put off until tomorrow what might be done today, Your astrological symbol of the Virgin tends to be
or to do later what might be done now. You are, in a word, misunderstood. It does not mean you’re a prude or lack
organized. Your idea of taking it easy would seem like hard sensuality. The Virgin stands for purity of purpose. You’re

3 4 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



not in the game of life to cheat or extract from others. If you hold on to a negative attitude, then your reality will
You have higher motives. You want to be of use. In an- also unfold negatively.
cient times Virgo was the sign of the harvest—and the You tend to have difficult getting in touch with your
symbolic meaning of the Virgin holding a sheaf of wheat deeper feelings because your mechanism of denial is so
is that Virgo people take what has been sown (knowledge, firmly set in place. “I’m not upset,” you’ll say. “I feel okay
information, skills) and harvest this energy to do some- about [this other person being promoted instead of me,
thing of practical benefit. In the same way wheat is turned him dating another woman, etc.]” Saying you feel “okay”
into bread to feed our bodies, you want to utilize the gifts covers a lot of messy feelings you’d rather not examine.
you were born with to nourish the world. Also, you often don’t see the forest for the trees. A pre-

Intelligence is the hallmark of your sign. You have an occupation with neatness and precision sometimes limits
excellent memory, an analytical mind, and are known for your breadth of vision. That estimable faith in logic also
crystal-clear thinking. You also have a keen ability to probe confines your imagination and leaves you a little shy on
into human motivations. People like to check their plans inspiration, too dependent on established practices and
with you before putting them into action because you methods. Your nature is to look back and analyze rather
have microscopic vision when it comes to detecting a flaw. than push forward in a new direction. You must know the
Your superb logic cuts through muddled thinking like a why and how of everything. Virgo is a mutable sign, how-
laser beam. You instantly zero in on a problem, take apart ever, so you can adjust easily to change once you find a
difficulties, and put them back together in proper order. way of fitting the new situation into your routine.
Because you believe life should be approached rationally, You may run into difficulty because of a tendency to
you are without peer in solving knotty problems or tan- complicate everything. No problem is ever simple for Virgo.
gled disputes. You are convinced that a reasoned presenta- For every answer you’ve got a question, and making moun-
tion of the facts will carry the day. Until you have the facts tains out of molehills is one of your specialties.
before you, you are reluctant to make a decision; you want Your nature is shy and reserved; it’s hard for you to re-
to know why and how a thing will work. Your faith is not lax, to make small talk or be gregarious with strangers.
in Chinese fortune cookies but in facts, and you distrust You prefer one-on-one encounters, in which you can offer
vague ideas that don’t stand up to critical appraisal or peo- the full benefit of your sharp insights and discerning opin-
ple who make emotional judgments. ions. That’s also when people discover how well-read, per-

Yet it would do you a world of good to have a little ceptive, charming, and witty you are.
more faith in general and to trust in synchronicity—that The first thing you learned about money matters is
certain events occur or people connect for a fortuitous that money does matter. Although you tend to downplay
reason. Your important life lesson is to expand your vision, your own ability in financial affairs, no one is better than
to look at things in larger terms and believe in the power you at staying within a budget. You aren’t tempted into
of faith. Virgo is ruled by Mercury, the planet of thought foolish ventures. Your bank balances usually jibe to the
and mental perceptions, and your ideas form your reality. decimal point. You want the finest but rarely overpay, and

S u n  S i g n s  •  3 5



you have a built-in resistance against self-indulgence. animals, tending sick plants—but you need to be appreci-
A highly developed sense of discrimination may lead ated for the kind things you do. Above all, you want to be

you to be hypercritical. You are unsatisfied with things as useful because you truly care about people.
they are and continue to analyze situations and people in
the hope of finding a way to make them better. At times How Others See You
your finely tuned sensibilities can even make you unhappy, You’re regarded as a real go-getter. People trust you to
for they give you a heightened awareness of the world’s im- handle any job. They think of you as a person who can
perfections. However, you resist criticism of your faults analyze almost any problem in a logical way. Others come
from others. It’s a rare Virgo who takes criticism well or to you when they want their own actions explained to
who can admit to being in the wrong. them, or are feeling confused about relationships. You are

You are health-conscious and try to make sure you get valued for your ability to set priorities and to create order
enough vitamins and go for regular checkups at the dentist. out of confusion. Because you’re both discriminating and
However, in this as in other areas, you can’t help being a truthful, people trust your judgment on books, theater,
worrier. As a result you are prone to tension and nervous ail- and clothes. However, you don’t wear your heart on your
ments. Hypochondria is common among Virgos. sleeve, and as a result others often perceive you as haughty

A warm, loving relationship brings out the best in any- and cold.
one born under this sign because basically you are kind, de-
voted, and very loyal. When your affections are engaged you
tirelessly try to serve loved ones. They will never have to
worry about who’s going to keep the checkbook balanced
or look after them when they are ill.

The Inner You  
You have plenty of willpower and dedication, and you

work harder than anyone to make sure something is per-
fect. Why? Because if you can’t do everything superbly,
you begin to fear that you’re failing. You are much too
critical of yourself. Actually, you’re an enigma that no one
has quite figured out. You hold back with people you don’t
know well and are reserved even with those you love. In-
wardly, though, you feel very deeply. Intensity and ex-
treme sensitivity are part of your secret self. You like look-
ing after others—giving advice to friends, feeding stray

3 6 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  S u n  i n  Vi r g o

Marc Antony Jimmy Connors Jesse James Ryan Phillippe
Yasir Arafat Jackie Cooper Samuel Johnson River Phoenix
Lance Armstrong Macaulay Culkin Tommy Lee Jones Keanu Reeves
Lauren Bacall Roald Dahl Michael Keaton LeAnn Rimes
Anne Bancroft Cameron Diaz Gene Kelly Cal Ripken Jr.
Ingrid Bergman Theodore Dreiser Stephen King Margaret Sanger
Leonard Bernstein Queen Elizabeth I (the Peter Lawford William Saroyan
Jacqueline Bisset Virgin Queen) D. H. Lawrence Claudia Schiffer
Charles Boyer Peter Falk Alan Jay Lerner Jerry Seinfeld
Kobe Bryant Greta Garbo Rocky Marciano Peter Sellers
Sid Caesar Richard Gere Judith Martin (Miss Manners) Charlie Sheen
John Cage Johann Wolfgang von Goethe John McCain Upton Sinclair
Taylor Caldwell Hugh Grant Freddie Mercury Oliver Stone
Agatha Christie Buddy Hackett Grandma Moses Mother Teresa
Craig Claiborne O. Henry Paul Muni Leo Tolstoi
Patsy Cline Faith Hill Bob Newhart Lily Tomlin
Confucius Jeremy Irons Arnold Palmer Shania Twain
Sean Connery Christopher Isherwood Itzhak Perlman George Wallace
Harry Connick Jr. Michael Jackson Regis Philbin H. G. Wells

Richard Gere Mother Teresa Lance Armstrong

S u n  S i g n s  •  3 7



Libra 
( S e p t e m b e r  2 3  –  O c to b e r  2 2 )

7
DUALITY Masculine
TRIPLICITY (ELEMENT) Air 
QUADRUPLICITY (QUALITY) Cardinal

Libra is active, artistic, easygoing, peaceable, prizes beauty and harmony, is diplomatic, polished, and very socially in-
clined.

RULING PLANET Venus: Goddess of love and beauty. In astrology, Venus rules pleasure, social pursuits, art, and adorn-
ment. Its influence also inclines toward self-indulgence and love of luxury.

SYMBOL The Scales: Signifying balance, equilibrium, order, and justice.
GLYPH (WRITTEN SYMBOL) The pictograph represents the Scale, which is in perfect equilibrium. This was

the ancient Egyptian symbol for the setting sun, which was regarded as the doorway between two worlds. In symbolic
terms, the glyph is a crescent moon connected to two straight lines resting above a third line. This represents emotion
bounded on either side by reason; the line below symbolizes partnership.

DOMINANT KEYWORD I BALANCE.
POLARITY Aries:

Libra is the sign of partnership and marriage. Its natives are happiest functioning within a union, and often lose their
equilibrium and positive outlook when forced to be alone. Aries, Libra’s opposite sign, is the sign of ego, personality,
and self. Aries people tend to put themselves first, and selfishness is one of their negative traits.

PART OF THE BODY RULED BY LIBRA The lower back and buttocks, and the kidneys: Librans suffer from lower
back strain and problems in the lumbar region. They are also subject to kidney infections.

LUCKY DAY Friday    LUCKY NUMBERS 6 and 9
MAGICAL BIRTHSTONE Opal: Brings financial success, frees its wearer from jealousy and greed, and imparts clear

insight.
SPECIAL COLORS Blue and Lavender: The colors of romance, harmony, and refinement.
CITIES Vienna, Copenhagen, Charleston, Lisbon   COUNTRIES Burma, China, Tibet, Argentina, Japan 
FLOWERS Rose, Cosmos, and Hydrangea   TREES Almond, Cypress, and Ash 
METAL Copper 
ANIMALS RULED BY LIBRA Snakes and lizards
DANGER Libra people tend to stir up ill feelings from others in situations having to do with love. Because they are inde-

cisive and sometimes make a declaration of love too easily, Librans both anger and disappoint lovers. They also have
a tendency to be fickle and faithless.

3 8 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
Your Most Likeable Trait

CHARM

Librans are easy to like , for you have a capti- pagne, lovely jewelry and clothes, beautiful (and expen-
vating charm, possess elegant taste, and are usually sive) objets, luxurious surroundings—these are the orna-

beautiful to look at. In addition, you have the gift of mak- ments of life to you. You enjoy all the things that money
ing others feel important, for you are a superb listener and can buy.
instinctively know how to draw out another person. You’re A narcissist at heart, you expect admiration. You wish
famous for how effortlessly you smooth ruffled feathers, to be the jewel in the center of any setting, and you have a
bring out smiles, and make others think they’re the most computer memory for any compliment ever paid to you.
wonderful people in the world. You’re a born charmer. You tend to judge others by outward appearances. If some-

Ruled by Venus, goddess of love and beauty, you ad- one has a charming facade, you won’t look any deeper. As
mire loveliness in all its forms, in music, art, decoration, a result you may become easy prey for a sophisticated
and people. Your home will always have a touch of ele- schemer with an affable manner.
gance, and you love to entertain in style. Flowers, cham- Libra is the zodiacal sign of Partnerships—in psycho-

S u n  S i g n s  •  3 9



logical terms the sign is outer-directed. Your energies are able to move one way or another, balancing pro with con,
focused on melding and combining with other people; advantage with disadvantage, risk with gain. Underneath
you are at your best in personal relationships. Your real your genial, calm surface, you have to struggle in order to
energy, however, goes into people. Whether they be part- make decisions.
ners, lovers, mates, family, friends, business associates, or The problem is that at Libra’s center is someone who
even guests at your party—relationships are your metier. does not feel complete in himself or herself. Beneath
You’re simply not a loner. Instinctively, you try to magnet- your brilliance and charm, you feel a psychic lack, some-
ize and pull others toward you. However, your main inter- thing missing—whether this something is a perfect lover,
est is on yourself within the relationship. You deal intu- a fulfilling career, a wonderful project that shows off
itively with other people’s emotions, and no one is better your talents, etc. And so you spend a lot of time feeling
at understanding and taking into consideration another you’re not “real,” that you’ve conned others into thinking
person’s point of view. Yet all too soon that outside view- you’re smart and successful, but very soon they’ll find
point will be lost or subsumed within your own subtly out you’re a fraud. One of Libra’s best-hidden secrets is
self-centered concerns. how shaky your self-confidence is—and certainly your

In the professional world you’re a superb team player. sense of not being whole and creating a false front is at
You’re able to meld many disparate egos into one smooth- the core of your insecurity.
working union. Your friendships and associations bring Although you have superb instincts, you don’t trust
opportunities, and your best luck comes when you pool them enough. You are likely to be an underachiever be-
your creative talents and intelligence with powerful indi- cause of your easygoing attitude. For the most part, you
viduals who open doors for you. don’t want anything badly enough to fight for it. The ex-

Born under the sign of the Scales, you strive for bal- ception is when you’re denied a privilege to which you feel
ance and harmony and are happiest when your environ- entitled. That ruffles your fur. Librans have a reputation for
ment is ordered and serene. Peace is worth any price to stubbornness, but that’s because you are sticklers for fair-
you and usually you will go a long way out of your way to ness. You resent being treated unfairly and become upset at
avoid friction and dissension. Because you see clearly inequity in the world at large. In general, it seems your
every side of an argument, every possibility of a given strength is only brought out by crisis. This is when you’re
course, you have the tact and ability to smooth over dis- at your most courageous.
putes. You are a born diplomat. In order to avoid an un- You get along harmoniously with people who are
pleasant scene, you will even stifle your own true feelings. even-tempered, particularly those who can laugh in the
In fact, far too often you are not sure what your true feel- face of difficulties. You are particularly appreciative of tal-
ings are. Because you try to be all things to all people, ent in any field, whether art, literature, or music, and if
there is a general impression that you are indecisive. You you lack talent yourself you often indulge in artistic hob-
appear to be constantly poised on an edge, seemingly un- bies. Often people are surprised at the wide range of your

4 0 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



interests because you hide your superior intellect under an vulgarity, or strife. If life were a play, you’d always insist on
agreeable, easygoing exterior. Libra is a cardinal sign, a happy ending. The problem with trying to have constant
which means you’re an initiator. You love new projects, peace and harmony is that you have trouble making deci-
unusual people, different ideas, and you’ll travel anywhere. sions. At times you fear that any move you make will bring
Gifted with imagination, flair, and enthusiasm, you have an something terrible crashing down around you. If you
open, independent mind that tries to evaluate the world could just lighten up and not be so hard on yourself, you’d
dispassionately and rationally. You also have a good head be much more satisfied with what you do achieve. You
for money (though your great weakness is a love of lux- have every ingredient for happiness!
ury).

Indeed, money has a way of slipping through your fin- How Others See You
gers because it isn’t money you love, it is the things money People feel important when they’re with you because
can buy. Essentially frivolous, people born under this sign you always seem to understand their point of view. You are
dislike hard work—unless someone else is doing it. A love considered warm and outgoing because you know how to
for beauty leads many natives of this sign to careers in art, draw people out, and you’re thought of as someone with
decorating, the theater, and composing, but the approach an unparalleled ability to deal with the public. However,
often remains that of a dilettante who enjoys the reward because you want others’ approval, you tend to go along
but avoids the effort needed to attain it. with what they want—and this sometimes makes you look

You are an incorrigible idealist and quintessential ro- wimpy. To some people, you also appear vain and overly
mantic. Affectionate, warmhearted, sentimental, naturally concerned with your appearance.
optimistic, you do everything in your power to please.
Your stock-in-trade is charm.

The Inner You
You work hard trying to please others and as a result,

they find you captivating. However, beneath your friendly
exterior, you desperately long for love and approval. You
have trouble saying no to others’ requests and you take on
too many jobs or commitments—and then to prove how
nice you are, you keep smiling through the strain while
you hide a lot of resentment. It might be more useful to
spend time building up your self-esteem rather than look-
ing to others to give it to you. Basically, you give away your
power. You hate anything unpleasant and avoid conflict,

S u n  S i g n s  •  4 1



8
Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  S u n  i n  L i b r a

Julie Andrews Hilary Duff Donna Karan Arthur Miller Paul Simon
Hannah Arendt Eleanor Duse Buster Keaton Yves Montand Ashlee Simpson
Armand Assante Dwight D. Eisenhower Deborah Kerr Martina Navratilova Will Smith
Brigitte Bardot Britt Ekland Evel Knievel Admiral Horatio Nelson Annika Sorenstam
David Ben-Gurion T. S. Eliot Angela Lansbury Louise Nevelson Bruce Springsteen
Joyce Brothers William Faulkner Ralph Lauren Eugene O’Neill Gwen Stefani
Art Buchwald Carrie Fisher John LeCarré Gwyneth Paltrow Wallace Stevens
Truman Capote F. Scott Fitzgerald Ursula K. LeGuin Luciano Pavarotti Sting
Al Capp Annette Funicello John Lennon Juan Perón Ed Sullivan
Miguel de Cervantes John Kenneth Galbraith Walter Lippmann Luke Perry Margaret Thatcher
Ray Charles Mohandas K. Gandhi Carole Lombard Paul Potts Cheryl Tiegs
Montgomery Clift George Gershwin Yo-Yo Ma Mario Puzo Desmond Tutu
Jackie Collins Bryant Gumbel Mickey Mantle Christopher Reeve Usher
Simon Cowell Linda Hamilton Wynton Marsalis Anne Rice Giuseppe Verdi
e. e. cummings Helen Hayes Groucho Marx Kelly Ripa Ben Vereen
Matt Damon Rita Hayworth Marcello Mastroianni Rex Reed Gore Vidal
Catherine Deneuve Jim Henson Johnny Mathis Tim Robbins Barbara Walters
Angie Dickinson Vladimir Horowitz Walter Matthau Mickey Rooney Sigourney Weaver
Michael Douglas Lee Iacocca John Mayer Eleanor Roosevelt Oscar Wilde
William O. Douglas Julio Iglesias Mark McGwire Susan Sarandon Serena Williams
Alfred Drake Jesse Jackson Melina Mercouri George C. Scott Thomas Wolfe

Jesse Jackson Barbara Walters Simon Cowell

4 2 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Scorpio
( O c to b e r  2 3  –  N ove m b e r  2 1 )

7
DUALITY Feminine
TRIPLICITY (ELEMENT) Water
QUADRUPLICITY (QUALITY) Fixed

Scorpio is imaginative, passionate and emotional, subtle, persistent, intense, obstinate, and unyielding.
RULING PLANET Pluto: Ancient god of the netherworld and of the dead. In astrology, Pluto rules regenerative forces,

and the beginnings and ends of phases in life.
SYMBOL The Scorpion: A secretive, deadly creature that can poison its enemies. Its sting is often fatal.
GLYPH (WRITTEN SYMBOL) The pictograph is the stinger of the Scorpion connected to a representation of the

human reproductive organs (the part of the anatomy that Scorpio rules). This was the symbol in ancient times for the
phoenix, bird of immortality and regeneration. In symbolic terms, the curved lines and arrow represent strong emo-
tions tied to practicality and aiming toward higher consciousness.

DOMINANT KEYWORD I DESIRE.
POLARITY Taurus: 

Scorpio is the sign of inheritance and legacies. Its natives are given a sense of purpose and destiny, and find truest
happiness in dispensing their life-force to others. Taurus is the sign of possessions and owning, and people born un-
der this sign want to possess, collect, and have. They will not easily let go of what belongs to them.

PART OF THE BODY RULED BY SCORPIO The genitals: Scorpio people are susceptible to infections of the uri-
nary system and venereal disease. In addition, their volatile emotions are often the cause of exhaustion and ill health.

LUCKY DAY Tuesday    LUCKY NUMBERS 2 and 4
MAGICAL BIRTHSTONE Topaz: Releases occult powers and brings serenity of mind. It also protects from enemies

and illness.
SPECIAL COLORS Crimson, Burgundy, Maroon: The glowing colors of passion.
CITIES Liverpool, New Orleans, Washington, D.C., Newcastle    COUNTRIES Norway, Algeria, Morocco, Tahiti
FLOWERS Chrysanthemum and Rhododendron  TREES Blackthorn and bushy trees 
METAL Plutonium 
ANIMALS RULED BY SCORPIO Insects and crustaceans
DANGER Scorpio people evoke anger in others by their secretiveness and jealousy. Their sharp, stinging tempers can also

enrage others to the point of violence.

S u n  S i g n s  •  4 3



8
Your Most Likeable Trait

IDEALISM

This is  the sign of extremes. Scorpio people are You live on many levels. While you present a calm and
variously described as powerful, weak, independent, smiling face to the world, you’re ferociously persistent and

clinging, passionate, and cold. Clearly, you are a bundle of extremely strong-willed. You’re also flexible when it comes
contradictions encompassing the best and worst in human to working out solutions. When thwarted, you don’t just
nature. accept defeat. You’re extremely agile when it comes to

The key to your personality is intensity. You do noth- sidestepping obstacles and figuring out a dozen new ways
ing by half-measures. Magnetic, emotional, capable of ex- to get to your goal. In a wonderful paradox, flexibility is
erting tremendous force, your strength is hidden in the one of your most effective methods of controlling situa-
depths. In the sign of Scorpio the element of water is tions.
fixed, an image that suggests an iceberg or a bottomless Scorpio is the most misunderstood sign in the zodiac
well. You may appear impassive, sometimes unapproach- because of its complications and convolutions. Basically,
able, but turbulent passions are always roiling underneath, you always have a hidden agenda. You’re someone of in-
invisible on the surface. credible depth and brilliance, and your inner psyche is a

4 4 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



labyrinth of wheels within wheels, boxes within boxes. Even afraid of. This is the zodiacal sign of birth, sex, death, and
when you seem to be at ease and relaxed, you are always regeneration—areas of human existence in which a person
evaluating, figuring out your moves, working out strategy. confronts the mysteries of the universe. Many Scorpio na-
Much of this has to do with control, which is what you are tives are brilliant doctors, surgeons, scientists, and spiritual
all about. For Scorpio to be out of control is to be in psy- leaders. Jonas Salk, Christiaan Barnard, Marie Curie, and
chic danger. Nothing is worse for you than to feel swept Martin Luther are among them.
away by outside forces. When you control you are safe. The complexity of your mind makes it difficult for you
Your Scorpio evolution is the journey toward controlling in to skim the surface; you must uncover what lies beneath.
positive ways—putting order into chaotic situations, being Whether you are studying a new subject, learning a lan-
of use to others and therefore meeting an unfulfilled need, guage, hunting down a fact, or just reading for amuse-
arranging your personal environment so it works smoothly ment, there is a quality of penetration in the way your
for you. The unevolved Scorpio tries to control other peo- mind works.
ple and manipulate situations for its own greed. Thus, as Your finest attributes—and your worst—are revealed
you see, the forces of light and dark continually oppose in relationships. With Scorpio, relationships are usually
each other in your turbulent psyche. complicated. This is not surprising when you consider that

What you need is to transmute your fervor into posi- you can be simultaneously generous and affectionate, vio-
tive relationships and meaningful work. It is very easy to lent and unpredictable; in your sunniest moods there is al-
waste yourself on what is unworthy of you, and then your ways a hint of an imminent change in the weather. You are
feelings turn inward, become imprisoned, at times even deeply loyal to friends but are also intensely jealous and
destructive. More than natives of any other sign, Scorpios possessive. You cannot tolerate the thought that anyone
live at a high pitch of emotion. Its negative aspects are you love might have a yearning, or even a simple yen, for
brooding, jealousy, resentment, even vengefulness. The anyone else. With you, it is usually all or nothing at all.
positive aspect is your unswerving dedication once your Moderation, restraint, and certainly casual are not in your
emotions are engaged. The Scorpion energy, drive, and en- emotional vocabulary.
durance are legend. Above all, you seek to give your life a You never forget a kindness and will try to repay it
meaningful pattern, to find a deeper purpose. handsomely. Conversely, you never forgive an injury and

You have a philosophical turn of mind and may be- will wait years to get even. In fact, most of the time getting
come interested in religion and the occult. Your sixth sense even isn’t enough—you want vengeance. It is strictly not
enables you to intuit things before they happen. You are advisable to do harm to any Scorpion. You make a danger-
blessed with a native understanding of the human heart ous enemy, for you are as subtle and deadly as the symbol
and a great awareness of life’s secrets. All the water signs of your sign.
(Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces) tend to be psychic, but you Scor- You are a fierce competitor, though often you manage
pios delve into the powers of the mind that others are to conceal this from others. You file away pieces of infor-

S u n  S i g n s  •  4 5



mation, facts, and names, and don’t hesitate to use what The Inner You
you know if the occasion arises. When you spot a weak-

You have great strength, determination, and willpower.
ness in a rival, you move in quickly for the kill.

But no matter how calm and cool you appear on the out-
You are adaptable, able quickly to channel your for-

side, you’ve got a well of seething emotions underneath. For
midable energies into new paths and to embark on an

the most part, though, you keep your intensity under con-
entirely different career. Confronted with disaster, you

trol by channeling it into useful activities. You’re a high
will try to turn it into success. Practical and shrewd, you

achiever, and you seem to “get” things in a flash—with
believe in tangible immediate goals, and your single-

powerful psychic feelings you’ve learned to trust. Your in-
minded concentration on getting what you want is formi-

stincts tell you that you’re destined to do something im-
dable.

portant and you’re not going to let yourself fail along the
Clever with money, conservative about spending it,

way. When you latch on to a new opportunity, you explore
you have an excellent chance to amass wealth. In business,

it in great depth before going ahead. Deep inside you is a
you tend to accomplish things first and announce them

gladiator spirit, and if you channel this fighting energy
second. By the time an opponent is aware of your

into positive goals (your continuing lesson), you will al-
progress, it is a fait accompli.

ways be one of life’s great winners. At times, however, you
Your nature makes you subject to obsessive drives that

feel you are a lone warrior in a harsh world. You’re a com-
can be resistant to reason. You will dominate and control

plex person who can’t always express how you feel, but
anyone who lets you. Suspicious and wary, you are reluc-

one thing is certain: The things you want, you want badly.
tant to trust your heart to anyone. But once you do, you
love deeply. How Others See You

Too many astrologers, in describing the sign of Scor-
It’s probably your secretiveness that makes people so

pio, forget to emphasize how loving, generous, kind, loyal,
interested in finding out what you think. You’re often the

even gentle a Scorpio can be. Many idealists who adhere to
guru in a group, the one with uncanny hunches about the

high principles and are a great positive force for helping
future and piercing insights into other people’s motiva-

others are born under this sign.
tions. Many believe that even your humor contains the

What all Scorpios have in common is intensity of feel-
barb of truth. People are aware of your reputation for sen-

ing. Emotion not only rules, it characterizes you. You are
suality and fantasize about you as a lover. You’re fre-

passionate in love, and passionate about everything in
quently viewed as over-controlling and too ambitious—

which you become involved: work, relationships, hobbies,
even power-hungry—but also as someone who can be

causes. You are an individual painted in vivid colors; there
trusted, because you never make false promises.

is no such thing as a pastel Scorpio.

4 6 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  S u n  i n  S c o r p i o

Spiro Agnew Clinton Harry Hamlin Joseph McCarthy Theodore Roosevelt
Marie Antoinette Barbara Cook Goldie Hawn Joni Mitchell Hermann Rorschach
Ed Asner Peter Cook Shere Hite Margaret Mitchell Meg Ryan
Christiaan Barnard Stephen Crane Bob Hoskins François Mitterand Winona Ryder
Roseanne Barr Walter Cronkite Rock Hudson Claude Monet Carl Sagan
Sarah Bernhardt Marie Curie Mahalia Jackson Demi Moore Jonas Salk
Edwin Booth Rodney Dangerfield Peter Jackson Mike Nichols Martin Scorsese
Charles Bronson Bo Derek James Jones Georgia O’Keeffe Maria Shriver
Tina Brown Danny DeVito George S. Kaufman George Patton Grace Slick
Richard Burton Leonardo DiCaprio John Keats Joaquin Phoenix Robert Louis Stevenson
Laura Bush Feodor Dostoevski Grace Kelly Pablo Picasso Lee Strasberg
Albert Camus Richard Dreyfuss Robert Kennedy Sylvia Plath Billy Sunday
Johnny Carson Sally Field Larry King Emily Post Joan Sutherland
James Carville Jodie Foster Calvin Klein Ezra Pound Dylan Thomas
Dick Cavett Felix Frankfurter Kevin Kline Claude Rains Leon Trotsky
Benvenuto Cellini Indira Gandhi Hedy Lamarr Dan Rather Ted Turner
Charles, Prince of Bill Gates Burt Lancaster Ann Reinking Voltaire

Wales Whoopi Goldberg k.d. lang Condoleeza Rice Kurt Vonnegut
Chiang Kai-shek Ruth Gordon Fran Lebowitz Julia Roberts Sam Waterston
John Cleese Billy Graham Vivien Leigh Auguste Rodin Stanford White
Michael Crichton Ken Griffey Jr. Martin Luther  Roy Rogers Owen Wilson
Hillary Rodham Moss Hart Charles Manson Will Rogers

Whoopie Goldberg Hillary Rodham Clinton Julia Roberts

S u n  S i g n s  •  4 7



Sagittarius
( N ove m b e r  2 2  –  D e ce m b e r  2 1 )

7
DUALITY Masculine
TRIPLICITY (ELEMENT) Fire
QUADRUPLICITY (QUALITY) Mutable

Sagittarius is energetic, ambitious, generous, freedom-loving, and a seeker of challenge, open to new ideas and ex-
ploration.

RULING PLANET Jupiter: The most important Roman god, ruler of the heavens. In astrology, Jupiter is the planet of
good fortune, optimism, expansion, abundance.

SYMBOL The Archer: Representing directness, high aims, a love of outdoor activity and the chase.
GLYPH (WRITTEN SYMBOL) The pictograph represents the free-ranging, pointed arrow of the Archer. It is

also a picture of the human leg from thigh to knee (the part of the anatomy that Sagittarius rules). In symbolic terms,
it is the line of wisdom angled away from trouble and earthly concerns and pointing toward higher ideals.

DOMINANT KEYWORD I SEE.
POLARITY Gemini:

Sagittarius is the sign of philosophy, higher learning, and broad concepts. Its natives are happiest discovering new
ideas, exploring distant places, and not getting tied down with personal commitments. Gemini, Sagittarius’s opposite
sign, is the sign of personal expression and communicating “one-on-one.” Gemini people are extremely verbal, love
to give advice, and tend to try to guide (even to control) other people’s lives.

PART OF THE BODY RULED BY SAGITTARIUS The liver, the hips, and the thighs: Sagittarian natives need lots
of outdoor exercise in order to keep healthy. They have a sensitive liver and are susceptible to overuse of alcohol and
to hepatitis.

LUCKY DAY Thursday   LUCKY NUMBERS 5 and 7
MAGICAL BIRTHSTONE Turquoise: Attracts love, protects from harm, and gives its wearer the ability to see into the

future.
SPECIAL COLOR Purple: Uncommon color of royalty and the artistic.
CITIES Budapest, Cologne, Toledo, Acapulco   COUNTRIES Spain, Hungary, Australia
FLOWERS Narcissus, Holly, and Dandelion  TREES Mulberry, Oak, and Birch 
METAL Tin 
ANIMAL RULED BY SAGITTARIUS Horse
DANGER Sagittarian people are subject to accidents of fire and explosion, especially while traveling. Their strong desire

for freedom may also incite jealousy and possessiveness on the part of a lover.

4 8 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
Your Most Likeable Trait

OPTIMISM

Ruled by Jupiter, planet of fortune, you appear Independence is your guiding principle. You are progres-
to breeze through life. You are Lady Luck’s compan- sive, restless in spirit, eager to get on with the business of

ion who seems always to be in the right place at the right living—a free, adventurous spirit who thrives on new
time. Astrologers say you have the gift of providence— ideas and constant change of scene. Somewhere you
luck protects you. In work, friendships, career, money— picked up a chronic case of wanderlust, and you have no
a door opens just when you need it. Naturally, this makes desire to be cured. The grass is always greener someplace
for a cheerful and ebullient disposition. You have your else, and your restless, inquiring nature requires travel, ex-
dark moments, but clouds roll over quickly. You are too citement, and the unconventional. Sagittarius, like its op-
interested in what is going to happen tomorrow to fret posite sign Gemini, wants to know. But whereas Geminis
long about what went wrong today. You are always sure are happy to sample a new idea, Sagittarians will follow it
that around the next bend of the road something wonder- as far as it will go. In the zodiac, Sagittarius symbolizes the
ful is about to happen. search for wisdom; this is the sign of the philosopher and

In Sagittarius, the enthusiasm of fire, the restless muta- the explorer.
ble quality, and the jovial influence of Jupiter combine to Sagittarians are hard to pin down emotionally. You
produce an expansive personality who cannot be confined. don’t want to get bogged down in messy entanglements or

S u n  S i g n s  •  4 9



anything that ties you down. You’ve got places to go and have wide-ranging interests—music, nature, philosophy,
you’re not about to sign up for anything that keeps you in computer technology, theater, animals—and enough en-
one spot. The way to stay unfettered is to shy away from ergy to do six things at once. What you lack is staying
emotion. Sagittarians rarely talk about their feelings—they power. Before you finish with one project, you are off to
talk about what they think about their feelings. Time and meet the next challenge. One reason is that you become
again Sagittarians are bewildered when their romantic bored doing the same things, and boredom is your worst
partners ask for more passion and feeling. Because you enemy, but another is simply that you must move on—
keep one eye on the exit door and don’t welcome endur- and up.
ing, profound relationships, sooner or later, you’ll unknot In business you are imaginative and clever, ready to ac-
the tie that binds. cept the new and to use it. But you perform best when

Friendship, however, is a different matter. You are al- there’s something really important at stake. When you’re
ways willing to be a pal—and you are the nicest friend in down to your last chance to win, when it’s now or never,
the zodiac. Kind, openhearted, jovial, completely free of you’ll put everything you own on the turn of a card and
malice, you are always doing favors for others. Your way of redouble the stakes. You believe in your luck.
helping doesn’t put the recipient under heavy obligation. You are straightforward and honest. Your frankness
“No strings” is a guiding Sagittarian motto. makes you easy to deal with because one doesn’t have to

Freedom is your most valuable possession. If it comes spend time figuring out the hidden significance of unspo-
to a choice you’ll take a difficult path, accept less money, ken clues or nuances. There is no hidden significance.
dispense with security, do anything as long as you have to What you say is what you mean. And you’re willing to tell
answer only to yourself. Your passion for liberty underlies all who ask exactly what you think of them, their lifestyle,
all your other qualities. Prizing it as you do, you also will- hairstyle, choices, lovers, you name it. The best part, how-
ingly grant it to others. You don’t meddle in other people’s ever, is people can trust what you tell them. Your candid
plans or interfere with what they think best for them- remarks are not meant to hurt; they spring from a desire
selves, and you aren’t possessive or jealous. to tell the truth. Ironically, you are rather thin-skinned

A sense of humor is among your most endearing and too easily hurt by a thoughtless action or careless re-
traits. High-spirited and congenial, you are a gifted con- buff.
versationalist, a wonderful storyteller, and a born enter- The keyword in understanding Sagittarius is possibil-
tainer. Writing, publishing, TV, communications are en- ity. To be restricted or feel your choices are diminished is
terprises in which there are many Sagittarians. Famous very depressing for you. You tend not to look at life as it
Sagittarians in these fields include Noel Coward, James is but as you want it to be. In many ways, you rebel
Thurber, Mark Twain, Garson Kanin, William Buckley, against being a grownup. Certainly, you know how to
and Woody Allen. take on responsibility and you’ve proven yourself strong

You Jupiter-ruled people are unusually versatile. You in the face of setback. Crisis brings out the best in you.

5 0 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



It’s the “dailiness” of life that defeats you. You have grand bored. You may think no one cares about you or under-
and wonderful ideas for an adventurous career or carving stands you when you’re feeling this way, but luckily your
out a utopian life or helping the world become a better belief that you’re someone special always sees you through.
place. Then you procrastinate, let others deal with the de-
tails, lose interest in a plan—and wonder why you’re How Others See You
stuck in the same place. People like your sense of humor and your buoyant

However, Sagittarians are among the most likeable presence. No matter what goes wrong, you’re ready with
people in the zodiac. True, you can be extravagant and an upbeat explanation and forecast for the future. You’re
wasteful, even on occasion reckless and irresponsible. True, also the first to volunteer help; colleagues and friends ap-
your life is full of forgotten appointments, missed dead- preciate your willingness to do favors. People like your
lines, unfinished projects. True, your emotions can be frankness, although sometimes they think you can be too
shallow and your commitments almost nonexistent. Over- frank and that you put your foot in your mouth too often.
riding everything, though, is the fact that you’re fun to be To some you seem fickle and undependable, perhaps a bit
with. So what if you promise the moon and everyone too detached emotionally. In general, you’re viewed as an
knows you won’t deliver. You know it too. There’s nothing unpredictable, independent spirit. 
underhanded or secretive in the way you deal. You play
with all your cards on the table.

Impetuous, buoyant, charming, you hitch your wagon
to the merry-go-round of life and ride it with insouciant
elegance.

The Inner You
Like Scarlett O’Hara, your motto is, “Tomorrow is an-

other day.” Even in your darkest moods, you believe there’s
a light shining around the corner. Your confidence in the
future is genuine, but you hate anything interfering with
your plans. You have a hunger to experience life to its
fullest—to travel, meet interesting people, and see things
you’ve never seen before. Anything new sparks your inter-
est. In fact, you’ll usually say yes to a suggestion without
weighing its merits simply because it lifts your spirits. And
while you’re not exactly a moody person, you are high-
strung and can become irritable when you start to get

S u n  S i g n s  •  5 1



8
Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  S u n  i n  Sag i t ta r i u s

Christina Aguilera Noel Coward Margaret Hamilton Carry Nation John Stewart
Louisa May Alcott Jamie Lee Curtis Ed Harris Mandy Patinkin Kiefer Sutherland 
Woody Allen Miley Cyrus Teri Hatcher Drew Pearson Jonathan Swift 
Christina Applegate Sammy Davis Jr. Jimi Hendrix Edith Piaf Michael Tilson Thomas
Jane Austen Emily Dickinson Abbie Hoffman Brad Pitt James Thurber
Tyra Banks Joan Didion Katie Holmes Richard Pryor Henri de Toulouse-
Kim Basinger Charles de Gaulle Jay-Z Rainer Maria Rilke Lautrec 
Ludwig van Beethoven Joe DiMaggio Boris Karloff Edward G. Robinson Tina Turner
Busby Berkeley Walt Disney John F. Kennedy Jr. Lillian Russell Mark Twain 
William Blake Benjamin Disraeli Billie Jean King William Safire Cicely Tyson
Kenneth Branagh Kirk Douglas Fiorello La Guardia George Santayana Liv Ullmann 
Leonid Brezhnev Patty Duke Max Lerner Charles Schulz Dick Van Dyke 
Beau Bridges George Eliot John Malkovich Eric Sevareid Gianni Versace
Jeff Bridges Chris Evert David Mamet Garry Shandling William Wegman
William F. Buckley Douglas Fairbanks Jr. Howie Mandel Frank Sinatra Rebecca West 
Hoagy Carmichael Jane Fonda Mary Martin Margaret Chase Smith Eli Whitney 
Dale Carnegie Lynn Fontanne Harpo Marx Alexander Solzhenitsyn John Greenleaf
Winston Churchill Jamie Foxx Margaret Mead Britney Spears Whittier
Dick Clark Redd Foxx Bette Midler Steven Spielberg Andy Williams
Joseph Conrad Ira Gershwin John Milton Rex Stout Flip Wilson

Frank Sinatra Jon Stewart Miley Cyrus

5 2 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Capricorn
( D e c e m b e r  2 2  –  Ja n ua ry  1 9 )

7
DUALITY Feminine
TRIPLICITY (ELEMENT) Earth
QUADRUPLICITY (QUALITY) Cardinal

Capricorn is reserved, prudent, patient, uses strategy instead of force, seeks security, is acquisitive, disciplined, determined,
and quick to seize opportunity.

RULING PLANET Saturn: Roman god who presided over the sowing and reaping of grain. In ancient times, the outermost
planet of the known universe. In astrology, Saturn represents obstacles, limitation, restriction, discipline, responsibility.

SYMBOL The Goat: A surefooted animal who is able to ascend the heights by taking advantage of every foothold. The goat
butts its way through obstructions.

GLYPH (WRITTEN SYMBOL) The pictograph represents the V-shaped beard of the Goat and the curved tail of the
Fish (the Sea-Goat, which was the ancient symbol for Capricorn). It also pictures the human knee and circular kneecap
(the part of the anatomy that Capricorn rules). In symbolic terms, the glyph is two straight lines that meet one another,
connected to a circle and a crescent. This represents the melding of authority and responsibility that is strengthened by
both energy and passion.

DOMINANT KEYWORD I USE. 
POLARITY Cancer:

Capricorn is the sign governing reputation, career, standing in the community. Its natives seek honor, praise, and approval
in the world at large, but tend to be emotionally reserved in personal relationships. Cancer, Capricorn’s opposite sign, is
the sign of domesticity and home life. Cancerians derive security from the love and closeness of mates and family mem-
bers.

PART OF THE BODY RULED BY CAPRICORN The bones, joints, and knees: Capricorn natives often have beautiful
bone structure, but they are subject to stiff joints, rheumatism, and orthopedic problems.

LUCKY DAY Saturday    LUCKY NUMBERS 2 and 8
MAGICAL BIRTHSTONE Garnet: Attracts popularity, high esteem, and true love.
SPECIAL COLORS Dark Green and Brown: Classic, comforting colors of nature and the earth.
CITIES Oxford, Boston, Brussels, Chicago, Montreal  COUNTRIES Mexico, Afghanistan, Bulgaria, India 
FLOWERS Carnation and Ivy    TREES Pine, Elm, and Poplar 
METAL Lead 
ANIMALS RULED BY CAPRICORN Goats and animals with cloven hoofs
DANGER Other people may harbor hidden grudges and resentments because of Capricorn’s coldness and reserve. Secrets

from the past are often used against Capricorns.

S u n  S i g n s  •  5 3



8
Your Most Likeable Trait

STEADINESS

Capricorns are ambitious, and the lives of one knows how goats bound up impassable terrain, find-
those born under this sign are marked by a purpose- ing footholds where no one thought they existed. You al-

ful pursuit of their destiny. Your motivating force is desire ways carry with you the knowledge that there are tasks to
for success, money, status, position, authority, and (though be fulfilled and if you can’t move mountains, then at least,
you may not realize it) for love. like the Goat, you can scale the heights.

Capricorn is both an earth sign and a cardinal sign, Your ruler Saturn is the planet of limitations, which in-
and the combination of practicality (earth) and initiative cludes the limitation of time. (To the ancients, Saturn was
(cardinal) produces a personality geared toward leadership the symbol for Father Time.) You have a heightened sense
and power. In the zodiac Capricorn is linked to the Mid- of the value of time, which helps to make you a superb or-
heaven—the point at the top of the horoscope that repre- ganizer and planner. Unlike those who don’t look beyond
sents high achievement. You’re a born climber who’s not next month, you will carefully examine your goal, separate
content to poke along down in the valleys. As long as there it into all its necessary steps, and plot out a long-term
is a top to get to from the bottom, you will persevere in timetable that often involves years. In the sign of Capri-
your upward striving. Your symbol is the Goat, and every- corn the quality of patience reaches new heights. One of

5 4 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



the hallmarks of your sign is that you learn to wait for Your remoteness of spirit is often misunderstood by
things you want. You are willing to give up today’s tempta- others; it has been described as cold passion. But you are
tion for tomorrow’s reward. not cold as much as self-sufficient. Because you need to

An aura of melancholy and sternness often surrounds organize and control your surroundings, on occasion you
you. Saturn has been called the Celestial Taskmaster, for it take a strong hand in other people’s lives. To you, it’s not
symbolizes responsibility, discipline, and restriction.  As a meddling but handling things better. Beneath your reserve
child of Saturn, you need something to improve and to there is a sensitive and sympathetic person, and anyone
perfect. You could have been the prototype for Lewis Car- who needs a strong shoulder to lean on needn’t look fur-
roll’s sly and charming jingle about industriousness: “How ther than Capricorn.
doth the little crocodile improve its shining tail…?” You are Certainly you do not deserve your reputation for being
ambitious, practical, and, above all, determined. You are sober and gloomy. One of your more striking characteris-
not interested in vague theory; you want to put any knowl- tics is a sense of humor. Your wit may be dry, incisive, but
edge to use. Your active mind quickly grasps ideas, and you it is extremely funny and has a way of erupting when oth-
have an admirable ability to concentrate. You are precise ers least expect it.
and orderly, and generally don’t trust others to look after As is your nature with everything else in life, you are
details. When you give your word you stick to it, and when cautious and conservative with money. Chances are you will
you undertake a task you complete it to the best of your amass wealth during your lifetime (usually in the later
ability. You tend to fuss over details and to make sure all years), for you know how to make sound investments. In
contingencies are covered. It’s your way of being in control. business your success is due to painstaking preparation. The

Because of your diligence, people sometimes fail to give journey of ten thousand miles may begin with a single step,
you credit for creativity. Yet you are highly creative—your but you know you can’t get anywhere unless you first know
skill is to link this to your talent for organization. You put where you’re going. You may not size up a situation as
dreams into action, and are especially drawn to the artistic quickly as some, but this can be an advantage, for it means
arena and the performing arts.  you won’t heedlessly plunge in. Instead, you will research,

You think of yourself as a real person in a real world examine what others have done before, and gather all rele-
that allows little time for idle pleasure-seeking. In certain vant data. Only then, with a thorough understanding of the
ways, Saturn is an austere and strict parent that lives inside details, will you begin to move. And then you won’t be
each Capricorn. Essentially, you feel you can depend only on stopped until you reach your goal.
yourself. The child in you feels unworthy—and your life- You are not comfortable with ambiguity. You seek cer-
long lesson is to shed this feeling and learn to love yourself. tainty and tend to see things in black and white. Emo-
You do not need to be your own parent who disciplines tional gray areas are troublesome, and you turn away from
and keeps you toeing the line. You yourself must allow the them. To the unevolved Capricorn there is only one
spontaneous part of you to play and run. “right” way, which is his or her way. Capricorn can be

S u n  S i g n s  •  5 5



closed-minded and critical, and put value only in power The Inner You
and success. 

You don’t need anyone to convince you that life is seri-
Your basic concern is for security. That goal comes first

ous business; you’ve known it all along. That’s what keeps
and you are usually materialistic. You can be spiteful to-

you anxiously asking yourself: Am I fulfilling my responsi-
ward those who stand in the way. You have a great sense of

bilities? Am I achieving as much as I should? Am I self-re-
pride and will not forgive anyone who belittles or slights

liant enough? You know you have the persistence and
you. By the same token you will repay favors done for you.

strength of purpose to reach your goals. But you also have
Scorpios also go out of their way to repay a kindness, but

a deep need to connect on an emotional level in your rela-
in their case it is done out of a sense of gratitude and fi-

tionships so that you won’t feel separated from those you
delity. With you the motivation is pride that does not al-

care about. You worry about keeping all that’s valuable to
low you to live comfortably under an obligation.

you—which includes relationships. Despite your intelli-
More than any other sign of the zodiac, Capricorns

gence and the fact that you’re so determined, you often
marry for money and prestige. In most relationships you

feel insecure. You’re a bundle of conflicting emotions. You
must dominate, because when you are in control you do

require discipline and order—chaos drives you crazy and
not feel vulnerable to another person’s power. In small

makes you doubt yourself and what you’re capable of. But
ways you are continually testing the loyalty of those close

maybe the gods meant for you to have some doubt; if you
to you. You are the loner of the zodiac, but have a great

believed you’re as powerful as you really are, you’d be im-
need to be loved and appreciated. Unfortunately, you

possible to live with!
won’t let this need be known—in fact, you are a past mas-
ter at concealing it. How Others See You

Underneath the mask, you wear still other masks, and
You’re often seen as an irresistible force and an im-

it can take a long time to discover the real you. To others
movable object. People put you in charge because you’re

you may appear aloof, indifferent, hard to reach because
decisive—you’re famous for having a great sense of real-

you are so self-contained. But the very elusiveness of your
ism. When others need a rational head in a crisis, they call

Capricorn personality can be hypnotically attractive. Like
on you. In personal relationships, some friends will stand

a riddle wrapped inside a sphinx, there seems to be a fas-
in line to unload their problems on you; others avoid you

cinating secret buried in your depths.
because they think your outlook is too downbeat. Every-

Anyone who cares enough to penetrate your shell of
one agrees that it’s difficult to divert you from your course

reserve will be greatly rewarded. Your affections and loy-
when you’ve set a goal. Some people feel that in order to

alty run deep, and you cherish and protect those you love.
find the real you they have to strip away layers of secrecy,

And you stick around when the going is toughest.
but most understand that your aloofness stems from a
deep sense of personal privacy.

5 6 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  S u n  i n  Ca p r i c o r n

Muhammad Ali Mary Higgins Clark Howard Hughes Jack London Helena Rubinstein 
Steve Allen Kevin Costner Joan of Arc Howie Long Anwar Sadat 
Matthew Arnold Katie Couric Janis Joplin Mao Tse-tung Carl Sandburg
Isaac Asimov Ted Danson Danny Kaye Ricky Martin Dianne Sawyer 
Joan Baez Ellen DeGeneres Diane Keaton Henri Matisse Albert Schweitzer 
Simone de Beauvoir John Denver Johann Kepler Dave Matthews Rod Serling 
Robert Bly Marlene Dietrich Val Kilmer Henry Miller J. D. Salinger 
Humphrey Bogart Faye Dunaway Martin Luther King Jr. A. A. Milne Al Smith 
Ray Bolger Robert Duvall Rudyard Kipling Moliere Maggie Smith 
Victor Borge Benjamin Franklin Gelsey Kirkland Mary Tyler Moore Sissy Spacek
David Bowie Diane von Furstenberg Andre Kostelanetz Kate Moss Joseph Stalin 
Tycho Brahe Ava Gardner Gene Krupa Sir Isaac Newton Rod Stewart
Louis Braille Kahlil Gibran Frank Langella Richard M. Nixon Alfred Stieglitz 
Lloyd Bridges Barry Goldwater Matt Lauer Aristotle Onassis Michael Stipe
Nicolas Cage Cary Grant Jude Law Dolly Parton J. R. R. Tolkien 
Al Capone Oliver Hardy Gypsy Rose Lee Louis Pasteur Jon Voight
Jim Carrey Stephen Hawking Robert E. Lee Edgar Allan Poe Denzel Washington
Carlos Castaneda Conrad Hilton John Legend Elvis Presley Woodrow Wilson 
Paul Cezanne J. Edgar Hoover Oscar Levant Jean-Pierre Rampal Tiger Woods
Anton Chekhov Anthony Hopkins Shari Lewis Paul Revere Loretta Young

Martin Luther King Jr. Elvis Presley Tiger Woods

S u n  S i g n s  •  5 7



Aquarius
( Ja n ua ry  2 0  –  Fe b rua ry  1 8 )

7
DUALITY Masculine
TRIPLICITY (ELEMENT) Air 
QUADRUPLICITY (QUALITY) Fixed

Aquarius is assertive, independent, progressive, analytical, original, and inventive, has strong dislikes and firm opinions.
RULING PLANET Uranus: Ancient Greek sky god, first ruler of the universe. It was the first modern planet to be discov-

ered (in 1781). In astrology, Uranus is the planet of change, disruption, the unconventional, and the unexpected. It rules
invention, aerodynamics, and modern science.

SYMBOL The Water Bearer: Dispensing a gift that flows freely and equally to all; representing creation and the giving of life.
The water that the Water Bearer pours out symbolizes truth, which you freely give out to the world.

GLYPH (WRITTEN SYMBOL) The pictograph represents the water that flows from the vessel of the Water Bearer.
It is also a picture of the human ankle in motion (the part of the anatomy that Aquarius rules). In symbolic terms, the
ridged unbroken lines represent electric energy, universal thought, and the wisdom of the future.

DOMINANT KEYWORD I KNOW.
POLARITY Leo:

Aquarius is the sign of hopes and dreams, friends and wishes. Its natives tend to be idealistic humanitarians who are
concerned with the larger issues of the world but remain personally detached in their own relationships. Leo, Aquarius’s
opposite sign, is the sign of pleasure, affection, and love affairs. Leo people look for fun and good times to make them
happy; they need close ties with others and tend to dominate in love affairs.

PART OF THE BODY RULED BY AQUARIUS The circulatory system, shins and ankles: Aquarius natives are prone
toward ankle sprains and breaks; also to varicose veins and hardening of the arteries.

LUCKY DAY Wednesday    LUCKY NUMBERS 1 and 7
MAGICAL BIRTHSTONE Amethyst: Brings faithfulness in love and bestows the gift of prescience. 
SPECIAL COLOR Electric blue: The clear color of the sky.
CITIES Stockholm, Moscow, Buenos Aires, Salzburg   COUNTRIES Russia, Sweden, Ethiopia 
FLOWER Orchid    TREES Fruit trees 
METAL Uranium 
ANIMALS RULED BY AQUARIUS Large birds
DANGER Aquarians are innovative, unconventional, and sometimes eccentric, and are therefore often targets for attack 

by narrow-minded people. Aquarians also have a tendency to get into unusual situations and take up with oddball 
individuals.

5 8 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
Your Most Likeable Trait

FRIENDLINESS

Astrolo gers are fond of this eleventh sign of with your penchant for unconventionality). It may be in
the zodiac, for Aquarius is the sign of the future, of defense of an idea you have, a trip you’ve decided on, a

the visionary, some say of astrology itself. Aquarians are habit of yours that you refuse to give up—whatever the
unorthodox, original people—sort of wacky, witty mad- cause, someone will suddenly come in conflict with your
caps who refuse to follow the crowd and go their own way. Aquarian obstinacy. You refuse to compromise or give an
You like being different. You not only march to a different inch. You’re a strange mix of an avant-garde thinker whose
drummer, you make up new music as you go along. opinions are written in stone. You cheerfully ignore what

Intellectual independence is your most marked charac- others think and strike off on new paths, unbound by
teristic. In the sign of Aquarius, the combination of a fixed precedent, because there are so many more exciting things
quality (representing persistence) and an air element (rep- for you to discover that way. You think boredom is a com-
resenting intellect and communication) under the influ- municable disease and take every opportunity to avoid it.
ence of the planet of change, Uranus, creates a personality Your character is a system of paradoxes. You enjoy be-
that is liberal, progressive, yet fixed in opinion. Your inflex- ing with people but are content to be alone. You like to
ibility shows up when others least expect it (in keeping travel but love relaxing at home. You are friendly and out-

S u n  S i g n s  •  5 9



going but also detached and reserved. You have both a human beings and an inveterate people-watcher.  Outgo-
scientific and an artistic turn of mind. In career you of- ing and amiable, you attract friends wherever you go.  You
ten are involved in two distinct areas of work. have a talent for making people laugh with a pithy phrase

Your astrological symbol is the Water Bearer—often that sums up a situation—though those who tangle with
Aquarius is mistaken for a water sign. Aquarius is an air you quickly discover how your sharp verbal skills can de-
sign. You are a communicator, an idea person. People born flate pomposity and pretension. You possess a true com-
under this sign live most intensely in their minds. The mon touch, yet never lose your own strong individuality.
“water” being poured out by the Water Bearer stands for Whomever you meet, you remain you—that amusing, in-
truth. You are a truth-teller; you give out opinions and ob- quisitive, interested person who wants to know what
servations. You dispense wisdom. You are a seeker of makes others tick. Your gift is for dealing with all kinds of
knowledge, rational, open-minded, gifted with breadth of personalities from every walk of life, no matter what their
vision. Chock full of information, you still search for station or status. You never put on airs, nor are you cowed
more. You always want to know what lies on the other side by anyone’s wealth or position. If you met the Queen of
of the mountain. One Aquarian recently declared, “It an- England, you would be your natural self. We’re all related,
noys me to find out there’s something out there I’ve never you believe, because we’re all human beings. You are gen-
heard of. I need to know what it is!” uinely interested in why a person thinks this way or that.

You can be objective in judgment, for you don’t let The nicest part is that you do not judge. You willingly
emotion get in the way. This appears to give you the abil- grant to others what you consider an inalienable right: the
ity to stand outside yourself, to rise above ordinary human freedom to be unique. For you, the ultimate liberation is
frailty. Your built-in distrust of emotion compels you to simply the freedom to be oneself.
struggle against its chains, and this may become a source As a student of human behavior, you have great toler-
of inner conflict. ance for the weaknesses and foibles to which all mankind

Problems arise when your sense of identity becomes is heir. You are a humanitarian, concerned with the wel-
inextricably linked to your ideas. Like Gemini, another air fare of the world, but do not get deeply involved in inti-
sign, you have a lot of ego invested in your opinions. mate relationships. There is always a certain distant qual-
When others disagree, you take this as an attack on your ity to you, a detachment or aloofness of spirit. You seem
personhood. Your fixity turns into willfulness and rebel- to disassociate yourself from emotion. However, the cool,
liousness for the sake of being a rebel. You deliberately re- arm’s-length impression you give can be deceiving. In the
fuse to recognize that your idea isn’t working in the real zodiac Aquarius symbolizes friendship, and you can form
world of your relationships or career—and you sabotage close and enduring ties. Beneath your detached, seemingly
yourself by insisting on your way even if your way proves unemotional exterior beats a stubbornly loyal heart. No
to be unfeasible. one is a truer, finer friend than Aquarius. Completely free

You are very people-oriented, addicted to the study of of malice, you’ll do anything to be helpful. Yet you’ll never

6 0 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



let the other person become dependent on you. Your affec- the least regard for convention of any zodiacal sign, which
tion comes with no strings attached. often gives you a reputation for being eccentric. Just as you

Because independence is your way of life, you will sac- are broad-minded about the faults of others, you take for
rifice even a close personal relationship in order to main- granted that your shortcomings will be overlooked.
tain it. Trying to fence you in or tie you down won’t work. Sometimes you will be argumentative not because you
If you feel trapped, you try to break free at any cost. Your feel deeply, but simply because you enjoy the intellectual
sign of Aquarius also represents future hopes and yearn- exercise. You are quickly bored and take delight in verbally
ings, and for you, what’s over is done with. You want to es- provoking anyone you consider stodgy and dull.
cape the past and, like Peter Pan, head straight on to Nevertheless, Aquarians are among the kindest people in
morning. You’re wonderful at hatching schemes and the world. Easygoing, reasonable, slow to take offense, never
dreams, plotting trips, setting goals. The unusual—in peo- mean-hearted, you believe in live-and-let-live. Honest, help-
ple, places, and projects—is what really interests you. ful, altruistic, and best of all never boring, you can change

As an idealist you would like to see that everybody is anyone’s life for the better just by becoming part of it.
happy, and your ambition is to do something important
and meaningful. Many Aquarians go into politics or be- The Inner You
come involved in social causes. This is the astrological sign The most frequent question you ask is “Why?” You
of hopes and wishes, and you are the kind who follows a want to understand what makes other people tick. Their
dream. History is dotted with progressive Aquarian thinkers lives fascinate you because you hope they will offer you in-
such as Charles Darwin, Abraham Lincoln, Susan B. An- sights into your own. You have plenty of love to give, and
thony, Thomas Edison, and Franklin Delano Roosevelt. you want nothing more than to have lots of interesting

An Aquarian will hatch up a grandiose scheme for im- friends, a wonderful love relationship, fulfilling work, and
proving the way things are, but your main interest is in for the world to be a better place and everyone to be
creating the idea, not translating it into action through happy. Not much to ask, is it? One of your best-kept se-
work. Hard work doesn’t interest you. You are creative, crets is how shy and insecure you are. You wonder if the
imaginative, endlessly willing to experiment, but the people you care about feel the same way about you—this
drudgery of detail and the minutiae of management are is why you work so hard to make others like you. You want
not your style. to share yourself, but are afraid of losing who you are or

You’d rather invent a new utopian scheme and let oth- becoming what other people think you should be. Yet
ers grapple with the hard realities. somehow your feelings of insecurity manage to coexist

Your great weakness is a tendency to inflate your own with a belief that you are someone special.
importance, to pose as an expert on any subject.

You are so determined not to be like anyone else that
you are sometimes contrary just to be different. You have

S u n  S i g n s  •  6 1



How Others See You They know you’re open to new ideas, especially when
these ideas are yours. People are drawn to your friendli-

You’re often regarded as slightly eccentric—not neces-
ness and enthusiasm, but they withdraw quickly when you

sarily strange, but certainly an independent character, a
turn acid-tongued. Sometimes, because you need so much

kind of daredevil with an unusual way of looking at
personal freedom, you give the impression of being uncar-

things. People consider you a pathfinder, a member of the
ing or distant. Those around you may also become an-

real avant-garde. They think you have a wicked sense of
noyed at your stubbornness.

humor, an ability to shock and amuse at the same tine.

6 2 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  S u n  i n  Aq ua r i u s

Jennifer Aniston Geena Davis John Grisham Ida Lupino Yoko Ono Jane Seymour
Susan B. Anthony James Dean Paris Hilton David Lynch Thomas Paine Cybill Shepherd
Corazon Aquino Neil Diamond Langston Hughes Douglas MacArthur Anna Pavlova Susan Sontag 
Tallulah Bankhead Charles Dickens Holly Hunter John McEnroe S. J. Perelman Gertrude Stein 
Mikhail Baryshnikov Matt Dillon Virginia Johnson- Norman Mailer James Pike Stendhal 
John Belushi Christian Dior Masters Edouard Manet Jackson Pollock George
Jack Benny Placido Domingo Michael Jordan Christopher Marlowe Leontyne Price Stephanopoulos
Christie Brinkley Dr. Dre James Joyce W. Somerset Ronald Reagan Adlai Stevenson
Tom Brokaw Thomas Alva Edison Jerome Kern Maugham Vanessa Redgrave Justin Timberlake 
George Burns Sergei Eisenstein Alicia Keys Felix Mendelssohn Burt Reynolds John Travolta
Robert Burns Mia Farrow Nastassja Kinski Carmen Miranda Jackie Robinson François Truffaut
Aaron Burr Farrah Fawcett Eartha Kitt James Michener Chris Rock Lana Turner
Lord Byron Federico Fellini Ted Koppel Jeanne Moreau Norman Rockwell Barbara Tuchman 
Eddie Cantor W. C. Fields Mario Lanza Toni Morrison Franklin Delano Jules Verne 
Lewis Carroll Clark Gable Heath Ledger Robert Motherwell Roosevelt Robert Wagner
Carol Channing Zsa Zsa Gabor Jack Lemmon Wolfgang Amadeus Arthur Rubinstein Edith Wharton 
Stockard Channing Philip Glass Sinclair Lewis Mozart Babe Ruth John Williams
Paddy Chayefsky Christopher Guest Joseph Lieberman Paul Newman Telly Savalas Oprah Winfrey
Natalie Cole Germaine Greer Abraham Lincoln Jack Nicklaus Franz Schubert Elijah Wood
Charles Darwin Zane Grey Charles Lindbergh Nick Nolte Andres Segovia Virginia Woolf
Angela Davis D. W. Griffith Ernst Lubitsch Kim Novak Tom Selleck

Oprah Winfrey Franklin Delano Roosevelt Justin Timberlake

S u n  S i g n s  •  6 3



Pisces
( Fe b rua ry  1 9  –  M a r c h  2 0 )

7
DUALITY Feminine 
TRIPLICITY (ELEMENT) Water 
QUADRUPLICITY (QUALITY) Mutable

Pisces is receptive, intuitive and emotional, imaginative, romantic, impressionable and mystical, adaptable, and very
changeable.

RULING PLANET Neptune: Ancient god of the sea; second of the modern planets to be discovered (in 1846). In astrol-
ogy, Neptune is the planet of illusion, glamour, mystery, deception.

SYMBOL Two Fishes tied to one another and swimming in opposite directions: Signifying hidden depths, shifting emo-
tional currents, conflicting desires, and extremes of temperament.

GLYPH (WRITTEN SYMBOL) The pictograph represents two Fishes tied together. It is also a picture of the hu-
man feet (the part of the anatomy that Pisces rules). In symbolic terms, the glyph is two crescent moons connected
by a straight line. This represents emotion and higher consciousness tied to and limited by the material world.

DOMINANT KEYWORD I BELIEVE.
POLARITY Virgo:

Pisces is the sign of dreams and mysticism. Its natives trust their intuitions and feelings and tend to seek more spiri-
tual values in life. Virgo, Pisces’s opposite sign, is the sign of work and service. Virgo people deal in facts and reality;
they are practical and strive for material success.

PART OF THE BODY RULED BY PISCES The feet: Pisceans have beautifully shaped, sensitive feet that are unfortu-
nately prone to aches, bunions, corns. Ill-fitting shoes are a particular hazard to people of this sign.

LUCKY DAY Friday   LUCKY NUMBERS 2 and 6
MAGICAL BIRTHSTONE Aquamarine: Magnifies occult powers and brings serenity of mind. It also protects its

wearer while traveling on the sea.
SPECIAL COLORS Pale green and turquoise: The dreamy colors of the sea.
CITIES Casablanca, Alexandria, Lisbon, Seville, Dublin    COUNTRIES Portugal, the Sahara Desert 
FLOWERS Water Lily, White Poppy, Jonquil   TREES Fig and Willow 
METAL Platinum 
ANIMALS RULED BY PISCES Fish
DANGER Pisceans have a high susceptibility to alcohol and drugs. They are also easily drawn into unpredictable situa-

tions and to unbalanced people.

6 4 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
Your Most Likeable Trait

COMPASSION

Just as  the first sign of the zodiac, Aries, repre- prophecy, and may even become involved in the occult,
sents a new beginning so the twelfth and last sign, ESP, and spiritualism. Because you have a close relation-

Pisces, is the end of the circle, the sign of eternity, reincar- ship with astral forces, you feel things before you know
nation, and spiritual rebirth. Many astrologers say that them and your feelings are rarely wrong. If you get a
Pisces is a link to the spirit world and that you who are hunch, others would be wise to pay attention. Part of your
born under this sign are old souls, for they believe Pisceans clairvoyance stems from the fact that you understand first
to have experienced other lives in the past. with your heart, and only then do you rationalize what

Pisceans have an otherworldly quality. In mystical you know intuitively.
terms, you are described as being half-body and half-spirit, Ruled by Neptune, planet of mystery and illusion, your
pulled between material existence and spiritual concerns, personality is elusive, fey, and quicksilvery. Your element is
possessed of the knowledge that you will never be entirely water, and the imagery of the sea is evident in how easily
at home in the real world. you adapt to the ever-shifting currents around you. More

Like natives of the other water signs (Cancer and Scor- than natives of any other sign, you are enormously influ-
pio), you have the ability to see deeply into the human enced by your surroundings and by the people who touch
psyche. Subtle and intuitive, you are born with the gift of your life. Indeed, you have a unique ability to get under an-

S u n  S i g n s  •  6 5



other person’s skin, to take literally as your own another’s pable of great sacrifice and hard work in the service of a
problems, joys, and woes. You have tender sympathy for cause or an ideal. Intellectually you are curious and like to
anyone or anything that hurts; sick plants, hungry animals, explore the unusual and hidden. Although you can be im-
and friends in need—they all find a home with you. At practical, even lazy, you are also capable of prodigious work
times you give away the very strength and emotional secu- when you are involved in a project you truly care about. The
rity you need for yourself. thing is that despite the fact that you work unselfishly for

You possess superb intuitions and a seemingly bottom- others, you find it hard to be strict and disciplined with
less understanding of other people, yet your extraordinary yourself. Not many natives of this sign are suited to the
sensitivity can be your most vulnerable point. You are too harsh, rough-and-tumble world of business and commerce.
impressionable to each passing influence, too susceptible Pisces is the mystical sign of the poet and the dreamer, and
to someone else’s hard-luck story or plea for help. For you, you are more successful as a writer, musician, or artist.
learning to say no can be a lifetime project and you may You’re intensely imaginative and addicted to make-believe,
never learn how to do it at all. and you strive to create a world that comes closer to your

Ancient astrologers called Pisces the sign of Sorrow from own unique vision. When you put your energy into creating
Self-Undoing, and you can easily become the creator of your fantasies, you’re the most creative artist in the zodiac.
own downfall. You are impractical and fall prey to Among famous Piscean creators are Pierre-Auguste Renoir,
overindulgence. You also have a penchant for picking the Frederic Chopin, Enrico Caruso, Vaslav Nijinsky, Rudolph
wrong companions. A fatal flaw in Pisces is the tendency to Nureyev, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, and Edna St. Vin-
flee from what you don’t want to deal with, and this can lead cent Millay.
you into a world of addictive behavior. At times, your life Because you blend compassion and understanding
may become so punctuated with trouble and heartache that with great verve, you exert a unique power on people
you try desperately to escape, and then you are like Eliza whose lives touch yours. You may feel you lack self-confi-
jumping from ice floe to ice floe, with no clear sense of dence to be a leader, but you are definitely a guide,
where you are headed. Your symbol, two fishes tied together teacher, and role model to many. You are also a fey
swimming in opposite directions, represents conflicting charmer and a mischievous wit who loves to laugh. Yet be-
emotions and desires that pull you to and fro. You must cause you are fundamentally unsure of yourself, you pre-
fight hard for stability, for the strength of purpose and bal- fer to work alone rather than with people. You have an in-
ance needed to combat the negativity of laziness, careless- stinct for finding what appears to be the easy way out, and
ness, and emotional confusion. You need to develop a posi- founder in the shallows of least resistance. This is why so
tive self-image, play on your strengths and ability to take many talented, charming, superior natives of this sign
responsibility, not let yourself fall victim to bad choices and never attain the position in life to which their gifts entitle
your predilection for self-undoing. Your life lesson is to learn them.
self-doing. You are a very special person whose sensitivity and

Certainly, you do not lack backbone. Indeed, you are ca- awareness will always appeal to a select group. You are ca-

6 6 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



pable of high intellectual achievement and your magnetic, happy endings and where everyone has the best possible
mysterious, engaging and delightful personality is height- motives. You’re a big bundle of feelings. You feel intense
ened by an intriguing sense of drama. joy and happiness when you’re involved in a creative proj-

You are also loyal, unselfish, and generous, always ect or a loving relationship. The opposite is also true: you
ready to help a friend who has fallen on hard times. In can suffer greater depths of sadness than most. Yet you’re
fact, you often create a special kind of magic—when you tougher than most people think. Push you down and you
concentrate on the best and reject what is ugly and mean- keep bouncing back like a rubber bathtub toy. You’re
spirited, people are likely to live up to your vision. You charged with energy and get caught up in what’s going on
have a deep appreciation for the inner qualities of others; around you. Your greatest strength is in giving to others;
you are not concerned with the superficial and with what you’re always ready to help whoever needs you. 
others see on the surface. You look at the inner soul, the
essence. There is no more sensitive, perceptive friend, nor How Others See You
one more warmhearted, caring, devoted, and sentimental. Everyone thinks you are his or her special friend, that

they have your undivided attention. You’re thought of as
Your Inner Self solicitous and concerned. You’re also known as a sparkling
You absorb impressions, images, and emotions from social presence—witty, vivacious, and always interested in

everything around you, and then filter them through your new activities. People consider you artistic and somewhat
rose-colored view of how you’d like things to be. This is bohemian, and are impressed by your psychic sensibility.
not to say you cannot deal with reality—it’s just that you They value you as a confidant but, oddly, the more people
like to think of life as an ultraromantic movie filled with lean on you, the weaker they think you are.

S u n  S i g n s  •  6 7



8
Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  S u n  i n  P i s ce s

Edward Albee Kurt Cobain Jean Harlow Sybil Leek Merle Oberon John Steinbeck 
Mario Andretti Roy Cohn George Harrison Jerry Lewis Shaquille O’Neal Dean Stockwell
W. H. Auden Nat King Cole Rex Harrison Rob Lowe Sidney Poitier Sharon Stone
Tammy Faye Bakker Nicolaus Copernicus Patricia Hearst James Madison Aidan Quinn Darryl Strawberry
Drew Barrymore Tom Courtenay Ben Hecht Anna Magnani Tony Randall Jimmy Swaggart 
Harry Belafonte Cindy Crawford Jennifer Love Hewitt Gabriel García Sally Jessy Raphael Elizabeth Taylor 
Alexander Graham Billy Crystal Winslow Homer Marquez Lynn Redgrave James Taylor

Bell Honore Daumier Ron Howard Michelangelo Carl Reiner Ellen Terry 
Osama bin Laden Michael Dell Victor Hugo Edna St. Vincent Rob Reiner Franchot Tone 
Erma Bombeck Jimmy Dorsey William Hurt Millay Pierre-Auguste  Renoir Tommy Tune 
Elizabeth Barrett Lawrence Durrell Henrik Ibsen Glenn Miller Miranda Richardson Carrie Underwood

Browning Wyatt Earp John Irving Liza Minnelli Bobby Riggs John Updike 
Luther Burbank Albert Einstein Steve Jobs Piet Mondrian Nicolai Rimsky- Gloria Vanderbilt 
Michael Caine Bobby Fischer Jennifer Jones Zero Mostel Korsakov Irving Wallace
Karen Carpenter Peter Fonda Barbara Jordan Rupert Murdoch Philip Roth Earl Warren 
Enrico Caruso Galileo Galilei Jon Bon Jovi Ralph Nader Kurt Russell George Washington 
Johnny Cash Ruth Bader Ginsburg Kiri Te Kanawa Kate Nelligan Willard Scott Kurt Weill
Edgar Cayce Jackie Gleason Edward M. Kennedy Vaslav Nijinsky Neil Sedaka Lawrence Welk
Cyd Charisse Mikhail Gorbachev Jack Kerouac David Niven Dr. Seuss Vanessa Williams
Frederic Chopin Kelsey Grammer Ring Lardner Pat Nixon Irwin Shaw Bruce Willis
Glenn Close Cedric Hardwicke Spike Lee Rudolph Nureyev Dinah Shore Joanne Woodward

Kurt Cobain Carrie Underwood Albert Einstein

6 8 •  S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y









8
2

T H E  S U N  S I G N S  I N  L O V E

ove, L’A M O U R , romance—it makes the world go round. In this chapter you will discover the basic

Lamorous nature of the Sun signs. Because men and women have a somewhat different approach to love
and sex, I have divided the signs into Woman and Man. Also, for those readers interested in how to attract

a person born under a particular sign, I have included tips that should prove helpful.
Remember, however, that the descriptions are based on Sun signs alone, not on the other important influ-

ences in a person’s chart. This chapter merely gives you clues to a person’s amorous nature, but you can never
judge a person entirely on his or her Sun sign.

Let’s say a woman has just met an attractive Taurus man and he has invited her to have dinner with him. By
all means, she should read the description of Taurus man’s amorous nature to get an inkling of the kind of man
he is. But she should not cancel her dinner date if she doesn’t like everything she reads. The Taurus she dines
with will have other planetary influences in his chart, and he will not exactly match his Sun sign description. On
the other hand, he is a Taurean and his basic nature will have Taurean characteristics. She should go to dinner
and find out more about the man. When it comes to 1’amour, take a chance.

Later on in the book you will find a chapter on how to compare a lover’s horoscope with your own. That
takes you further into the various planetary influences. By the time you reach that chapter, you will know a great
deal more about astrology.

Meanwhile, this preliminary survey provides a general guide and a useful insight into how each Sun sign
deals with love. In addition, I include for each Sun sign a guide, called “Amorous Combinations,” that tells how
the sign relates to all the other signs in the zodiac.

Let me caution you, however, that the descriptions in this guide are painted in broad strokes, and should not
seriously affect a decision about whom to make love with, whom to marry, or even whom to have dinner with—
decisions that should be based on many other factors.

7 1



With the above caveat, I include in this chapter a summary of general compatibilities for your Sun sign in the hope
that it may prove both instructive and amusing.

Vive l’amour!

7 2 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Aries
The Amorous Nature

8
You and Aries Woman In love she will be faithful, but she expects total fidelity

in return. Her jealousy is rooted in possessiveness. She
If you fall in love with an Aries woman, you’ll never doesn’t want a lover who has too many other interests. She

lack for excitement. But are you the kind of man who can wants all of him—or nothing at all.
handle a full-blooded independent, forceful female? Be- There is an important distinction to make about her
cause that’s what Aries woman is. jealousy that may be useful in helping to understand her

This passionate, intense creature can’t give a tepid re- fundamental character. She isn’t jealous because of a feel-
sponse. She’s a fully stocked fireplace, with logs, kindling, ing of insecurity (the root cause of most jealousy), but
and paper, waiting for the touch of a match to set her on fire. because she has to be number one. She’ll become a tow-

What Aries woman wants, she gets. When a man meets ering inferno if her man so much as thinks about two-
an irresistible force like her, he tends to become a highly timing her.
movable object. Indeed, when she is first attracted to a The Aries woman finds happiness in a long-term rela-
man she throws herself into the enthralling game of seeing tionship. She enjoys sharing everything with a lover, and is
how fast she can capture him. For her, one of the peak ex- a giver of and partaker in pleasure. She is a highly affec-
periences of an affair is the beginning of the stalk. She’s tionate and demonstrative lover who exudes sexuality and
fascinated by challenge. The more aloof you are, the more magnetism. Every sex encounter (even with the same
she wants you; her goal is to make you her love slave. lover) takes on the drama of a conquest. She will also be

A love affair with her is not easy. She wants freedom your staunchest ally, fight side by side with you, believe in
and total togetherness and ecstasy all at once. She has an you, encourage you. She’s a marvelous companion for a
enormous need for love and gets more than her share, but man on the way up or fighting to stay at the top because
no man becomes her lord and master. She meets a man on she’ll give him all the strength and determination she has.
equal terms. If he offers loyalty, she repays him in kind. If She’s definitely ambitious.
he is untrustworthy, she also repays him in kind. Basically, When she does not feel she is loved she can become
in her relations with men she is domineering. You can ei- shrill and demanding. Above all, she won’t tolerate being
ther accept it or leave. If you stay, you’ve made the first ignored or neglected. The straight road to perdition is a
concession on a long road. At the end, you’re likely to find relationship with an unhappy Aries woman.
you’ve been molded and shaped to fit her image of what She wants to be understood and appreciated for her
her lover should be. unique qualities. If you handle her with tact and give her the

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 7 3



admiration she needs, this vivacious, active, mischievous, beautiful goddess whom he will sweep off her feet. He 
sensual, fascinating woman will do anything you ask. doesn’t understand deviousness in a relationship, and if a

woman appears innocent and yielding he won’t look further.
You and Aries Man If he discovers that he has been duped and taken advantage
It would be superfluous to say he has fiery emotions of, his bewilderment and hurt quickly turn to anger.

because he has practically no other kind. He’s always in Aries acts out sexual fantasies. The minute he finds
search of something that will satisfy his pioneering, ever- himself daydreaming about a sexual situation, he sets to
aggressive lust for adventure. He moves within a self- work trying to make it a reality. And something about his
created aura of excitement and somehow things happen blunt, direct approach, “the battering ram,” gets results
wherever he is. where more subtle means might fail. He leaves no doubt of

He won’t be easy to resist. Think it over before you say his intention from the first, but comes at you directly. His
even a tentative no. Where else will you find a lover as ad- manner is forceful, aggressive, and winning. He is used to
venturous, original, virile, and vital? A woman who is at- winning. On your first date you’ll learn that you cannot
tracted to an Aries male should be willing to settle for a take the lead. He will tell you where you’re going and when;
brilliant, exciting—and generally short—affair. Romanti- you can simply relax and leave it all in his capable hands.
cally, he dotes on challenge and novelty. To him, the world He is impulsive to the point of rashness. When he
is a garden of feminine flowers and he can’t afford to miss wants you, he wants you. He has no control over his pas-
the scent of a single lovely bloom. sions and must go anywhere his desires impel him. He

There are so many delights to sample before winter doesn’t worry about consequences.
comes. He is always eager for a new experience. At first, This man has energy, imagination, and sheer physical
that’s all a woman represents to him. exuberance. Any woman who has had an Aries man

However, there is a vulnerable side to this man. He be- around the house will tell you she had an exciting time—
lieves in the Eternal Woman, a romanticized version of the while it lasted.

7 4 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
How to Attract Aries

Don’t be timid. Faint heart never won Aries, male or fe- Before an important date, take a nice long nap. Aries is
male. Let Aries people know how much you admire them no clock-watcher, and the fun may go on and on into the
right at the beginning. Aries people will never think you wee hours. Aries people pick up steam while everyone else
brash if you are paying them a compliment. They feel they is running out of gas.
deserve it. Be a bit careful, though, about laying it on too By all means, bring your problems to Aries. There is
thick. They can always spot insincerity. nothing they like better than to be asked for advice. They

Aries people think of themselves as intellectuals, so are generous with their time, counsel, money, and sympa-
don’t appeal to them purely on a physical plane. They will thy. And there’s an additional advantage. No Aries is in
enjoy a lively discussion of theater, music, politics, or even doubt as to what should be done in any given situation.
more esoteric subjects such as history, art, or philosophy. You’ll get a forthright, black-and-white, no-quibbles-or-

A good suggestion for a date early in the relation- evasions answer.
ship is a sporting event. (With Aries, it can never be Important: Never try to dictate to an Aries. They don’t
more than a suggestion.) They are enthusiastic sports know how to take orders. If you want to put an idea into
fans. If you don’t know much about the game you’re his or her head, do it so that Aries thinks the idea origi-
watching, let them explain it to you. They’ll do so in a nated there.
way that will make it interesting and exciting.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 7 5



8
Aries’s Amorous Combinations

ARIES AND ARIES This can be a passionate affair, but bility, for Gemini is as restless and eager to try new
neither is content with an inferior role. The Aries fe- things as Aries is. There are no inhibitions on either
male tends to dominate (generally because domineer- side. Gemini is clever enough to counter Aries’s need
ing females have to try harder to get their way than to dominate. Gemini may seek extra outside stimula-
domineering males). However, there will be fierce tion, but is discreet about it. Their minds mesh well;
competition to be number one. Eventually, the flare- Aries is dynamic and intelligent, Gemini is versatile
ups and heavy cannonading take their toll in the bed- and ingenious. Aries is likely to be the leader sexually,
room, and what starts out so promisingly ends in and Gemini delights in thinking up variations to keep
disharmony. The prognosis is a little better if each has Aries’s interest at a peak. The signals are definitely go.
outside interests and/or a career separate from the
other. When their energies are diverted into other ar- ARIES AND CANCER These two are fascinated with
eas, conflict between the two becomes a bit more play- each other at the beginning, but sexual attraction
ful and less destructive. fades in the face of many temperamental differences.

Aries leaps without looking; Cancer is cautious. Cancer
ARIES AND TAURUS Both are highly sensual, but Aries loves hearth and home; Aries hates being tied down.

may be annoyed by the deliberate pace and unimagi- Resentments build up and they argue over trifles.
native lovemaking of Taurus. Taurus is a homebody, Aries has a sharp tongue that wounds vulnerable
while Aries is definitely not. Aries is impulsive, and Cancer. The more aggressive Aries is, the more defen-
looks for new experiences and freedom. Taurus is pos- sive Cancer becomes. There’s too little compatibility
sessive and jealous, set in its ways, and views Aries’s to work with. When Cancer starts to nag, Aries looks
need to be an individual as a rejection. Taurus is good for the way out.
at making money, but Aries is even better at spending
it. The long haul can be hard going, though if they ARIES AND LEO Both have got egos to burn and both
hang on long enough Aries will come to appreciate like to lead. Aggressive Aries wouldn’t dream of taking
Taurus’s steadiness and dependability. second place, and kingly Leo needs constant admira-

tion. Usually they can work it out by having Leo play
ARIES AND GEMINI They won’t bore each other be- the emperor and Aries play the general. The trick is for

cause both love to talk. (It’s a close contest, but Gemini neither to take the other all that seriously. It’s a fine
will probably win.) And they share a special compati- combustible sexual match, for both are fiery and ro-

7 6 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



mantic. Aries is optimistic and open to life; Leo is gen- undoing. Aries’s many outside interests make Scorpio
erous and good-hearted. If neither tries to deflate the feel insecure and that brings out Scorpio’s tyrannical
other—and if they can find room to compromise about streak. Aries won’t take orders and Scorpio will never
who dominates whom—this should be a happy mating. take a backseat. This is an unstable partnership with a

low ignition point.
ARIES AND VIRGO Aries’s boldness should intrigue

shy, reserved Virgo for a time. But they have totally dif- ARIES AND SAGITTARIUS Sagittarius is a perfect tem-
ferent ideas about what should happen in the bed- peramental match for Aries. They are both active, spon-
room—and elsewhere. Aries’s passions are impulsive taneous people who like socializing, have extravagant
and direct. Virgo’s sexuality is more enigmatic and tastes in common, and enjoy the good life. There may
takes time to be revealed. In other areas Aries is full of be a little conflict because both are impulsive and bru-
exciting new plans and ideas, and insists on being boss. tally frank. Arguments can reach the boiling point.
Virgo is critical and fussy, and likes things to be done Aries’s forceful sexual approach is not always playful
the way Virgo wants. Virgo disapproves of Aries’s ex- Sagittarius’s style. However, they have wonderful senses
travagance; Aries thinks Virgo cold and carping. They of humor and enjoy each other’s company. If they make
end up making war, not love. it in the bedroom, they’ll make it everywhere else.

ARIES AND LIBRA There is a powerful initial attraction ARIES AND CAPRICORN Aries’s taste for innovation
between these two opposites, for in certain areas each and experimentation may not please conservative
supplies what the other lacks. For one, Aries’s aggressive- Capricorn. Aries is restless, fiery, impulsive; Capricorn
ness arouses Libra’s sensual potential. Their love life may is ordered, settled, practical. Capricorn needs to domi-
be unconventional. However, Libra really wants peace, nate and so does Aries. Problems also crop up over
quiet, and harmony, while Aries wants action and adven- money—Aries is extravagant, Capricorn is security-
ture. Both like social life, entertaining, and pleasure, but minded. Oddly enough, the auguries are better for the
both are restless in different ways. In time Libra will look long haul than the short. Aries’s responsive sexual na-
for someone less demanding, and Aries will find some- ture meets its match in Capricorn’s deep-seated pas-
one more adoring. Marvelous affair; poor marriage. sions. And Capricorn’s strength and endurance will in

time win Aries’s respect.
ARIES AND SCORPIO Love can be a bonfire between

these two. They’re both physical, energetic, and pas- ARIES AND AQUARIUS They’re well suited tempera-
sionate. Sexually, everything should be fine—it’s the mentally—both are active, ambitious, enjoy a wide
emotional side of the relationship they can’t handle. range of interests, and are equally eager for sexual ad-
Each has a forceful personality and wants to control venture. Depending on whim, Aquarius may or may not
the other. In the end, Scorpio’s jealousy may prove the let Aries take the lead. Both are independent—Aquarius

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 7 7



even more than Aries—and Aries may at times feel neg- tive and mysterious sexuality. The boldness and confi-
lected. Aries finds the Aquarian unpredictability excit- dence of Aries plus Pisces’s intuitions and fantasies add
ing, but also never feels entirely secure. However, with a up to an eventful union. Personality differences com-
bit of tact and understanding on both sides, this is a plement each other. Aries is self-assured and vivacious;
great affair that could turn into something even better. Pisces is somewhat shy and easily led. Aries likes to be

dominant; Pisces likes having someone to lean on. For
ARIES AND PISCES Aries will draw Pisces out of that a happy coupling this requires only a little more tact

shell, and in turn will be hypnotized by Pisces’s seduc- on Aries’s part.

7 8 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Taurus
The Amorous Nature

8
You and Taurus Woman never really won. She makes up her own mind long before

what you may consider the decisive moment. She plans
She is a da Vinci in the art of seduction. From her ahead, for she doesn’t believe such an important matter as

Mona Lisa smile to the sensual look in her eyes, she is a sex should be left entirely to chance. The stage is set care-
consummate mistress of love. However, she is not promis- fully. Every attention will be given to detail, for the woman
cuous, and any hopeful male who picks up her seductive born under this sign is marvelous at detail. While you preen
signal had better turn off his antenna if all he wants is a yourself on your supposed conquest, she never lets you
casual affair. Taurus woman is not a lady for a day, or even know that you never had a choice.
for a weekend. Her need is for security and stability, and If she loves you, nothing anybody can say against you
casual is not a word in her vocabulary of love. will affect her in the slightest degree. She has a secure

In many ways Taurus woman is the perfect personifica- sense of her own judgment and her own needs, and she
tion of the old-fashioned woman, for she is devoted and trusts her instincts.
protective, a natural earth mother who loves and nurtures Taurus woman is a true romantic—serene, unaffected,
and gives of her strength. She is also earthy in her pas- sexy, artistic, good-natured, yet with elegance and taste. If
sions—once she falls in love. Being in love brings out the you capture this woman’s fancy, count yourself blessed.
best in her. She isn’t coy or provocative in a love relation-
ship. She is open, affectionate, and demonstrative with the You and Taurus Man

man she cares for, and abundantly generous with her af- He won’t sweep you off your feet and ride away with
fection, caresses, and verbal endearments. Her sexual ap- you into a crimson sunset. It’s not that he’s afraid to do
petite borders on the lusty—indeed, she has a great ap- this, it’s just that the idea would never occur to him. If his
petite for life. Her first sexual experience is likely to be maiden fair were locked up in a tower, he’d be far more
with an older, sophisticated man who teaches her the likely to call at the front gate to negotiate for her release.
pleasures of fine food and wines and traveling first class. That’s the sensible thing to do.

A passionate bed partner and a devoted mate, Taurus Above all, this man is sensible, down-to-earth, and
woman has a great deal to offer. But she demands a lot in practical about love. In his approach to women he is delib-
return. She believes in giving her all and taking all she can erate, looking over the field before he decides. You won’t
get. No bargain hunters need apply. find him trying to win the prize every other man is after.

She likes to be courted, pursued, and wooed—but is He wants a woman who will satisfy him for the long haul,

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 7 9



not a glittering chromium-plated model that’s all too soon more verbal types such as Gemini or Libra, but he will
ready for the junk heap. He prizes security and stability. show his devotion by being unexpectedly generous. Of
This is not to say he will turn down an invitation to a course, his gifts won’t be frivolous because he never loses
weekend frolic with a beautiful blonde. The world is pop- sight of the value he gets for money spent. He’s the kind
ulated with millions of sexy, sensual, casual-seeming Tau- of man who will buy you a single high-priced piece of
rus men who certainly enjoy making love. But scratch the jewelry rather than a dozen gaudy trinkets.
surface and you’ll uncover a man who doesn’t want a rela- Beneath a Taurus male’s reserve is a passionate, highly
tionship unless he thinks it’s going to last. When it comes physical nature. For him, romance and sensuality are prac-
to his emotional life he can afford to be patient. tically interchangeable. Like his female counterpart, he is

He is very sensitive to a rebuff, but is so good at con- simple and direct about his sexual pleasures.
cealing this that most women never suspect it. He may ap- He sees no need for variations on the theme, but on
pear too stolid to be really sensitive, but his tough-looking the other hand, he has all the stamina a woman could ask
hide is only tissue thin. It isn’t always apparent at first meet- for. His immense physical vitality more than makes up for
ing, but, in his own way, Taurus is supremely romantic. He any lack of variety.
puts the woman he cherishes on a pedestal, though he cer- Here is a sensual, strong-willed, sensible man you can
tainly doesn’t treat her like a statue. Unlike some men who depend on. He’s loyal, affectionate, kind, and faithful, with
have an idealized vision that they try to superimpose on a a fine understated sense of humor. A lot of women who
woman, Taurus loves the real you. are looking for Mr. Right need look no farther than a Tau-

This man isn’t able to say “I love you” as readily as the rus male.

8 0 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
How to Attract Taurus

Taureans are not going to be rushed. They like everything, mor tends to be broad, robust, Rabelaisian. Physical jokes
including a friendship or a love affair, to be built on a firm strike their funnybones.
foundation. That may require restraint and patience, but If you’re feeding a Taurus, feed him or her well. Take
these are qualities Taureans appreciate, for they possess her to a restaurant where the chef knows his business and
those traits themselves. where you can get a good bottle of wine. Cook him a meal

Hint: The first move is up to you. Taurus is slow to at home that shows you know your way around a kitchen,
make up his or her mind, and the opportunity will be and don’t skimp on the portions.
gone if you don’t seize the initiative. If the conversation starts to lag, try that never-failing

Show them you like to be in their company, and try to topic of interest: money. By all means, show off your
amuse them. These quiet, easygoing people respond to prized possessions, from stamps to ivory miniatures to
those from whom they can borrow laughter. You’ll find jade, or even Indian-head pennies. To a Taurean, it’s all
them charming companions, interested and interesting. A endlessly fascinating.
tendency to be somewhat ponderous or to go on at exces- Don’t monopolize the conversation. Once Taureans get
sive length can be corrected with an apt remark at the started, they like to talk. And don’t be niggardly with
right time. praise—for their home, their car, clothes, jewelry, their just

If you tell a joke, remember that Taurus’s sense of hu- plain good taste, and, above all, for them.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 8 1



8
Taurus’s Amorous Combinations

TAURUS AND ARIES Taurus is not as quick on the that very reason—for a little while. Gemini is attracted
trigger as Aries, but both have a mutual interest in to Taurus’s passions, but in time Taurus’s instinct for
making love. Aries is emotional and Taurus is sensual, security and stability will be offended by volatile Gem-
and they’re bound to have fun while the affair lasts. In ini. Taurus is too much a creature of habit to go along
time, though, Taurus’s possessiveness will strike angry with Gemini’s constant need for new stimulation.
sparks from fiery Aries. They’ll also argue about Eventually, Taurus’s demands are simply too much for
money—Taurus tends to be careful and conservative, Gemini, who seeks escape.
Aries is reckless and a spendthrift. Aries’s impulsive-
ness in making decisions annoys fixed Taurus, who TAURUS AND CANCER They have a lot going for
dislikes a sudden change in routine. An affectionate af- them. Both are home-lovers, sentimentalists, and highly
fair can turn into a difficult marriage. sexed. Taurus’s easy-going, placid nature is a good anti-

dote for Cancer’s moodiness, though sometimes plain-
TAURUS AND TAURUS This isn’t the most exciting spoken Taurus must be careful not to slight Cancer’s

union ever, for both are domestic creatures who prefer feelings. Cancer needs someone strong like Taurus to
safety to adventure. However, both share a fondness depend on; in turn, Cancer gives Taurus the loyalty and
for money and, are hardworking, loyal, and affection- feedback it needs. Taurus is ambitious for money and
ate. She tends to be more sentimental than he, but security, and Cancer has exactly these same goals. Simi-
each is as possessive as the other, which works out fine. lar interests and desires make for a harmonious mating.
Because they are both earthy and direct about sexual
needs, there should be no problem in that department. TAURUS AND LEO Leo demands constant praise and
Boredom is the threat. The perfect solution is for each adulation, and is forever competing with Taurus. As a
to develop some outside hobbies and friends without result, Taurus digs in its heels and gets more sullen
raising the possessive hackles of the other. with each passing day. Taurus needs appreciation and

Leo needs worship, but neither will get what it needs
TAURUS AND GEMINI These two are completely un- from the other. In addition, Leo is extravagant and

alike in temperament. Taurus is stolid, fixed in opin- Taurus parsimonious. There is a basic conflict between
ions, resistant to change. Gemini is flighty, restless, Taurus’s desire for a well-ordered schedule and Leo’s
vacillating. But they may find each other intriguing for need for a larger-than-life existence. Sexually, these two

8 2 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



are well matched, but Leo thinks life is a circus and strong wills at work here. Taurus’s passionate sexual
tries to perform in all three rings at once. Taurus finds nature meets more than its match in Scorpio—in fact,
that hard to take, or even to watch. the sexual element in this affair borders on the obses-

sive. But Scorpio’s overbearing, possessive, jealous na-
TAURUS AND VIRGO It’s love at first sight. Both are ture makes Taurus simmer with resentment. This is a

homebodies and they share the same intellectual pur- tempestuous affair, and neither has the tolerance to
suits. Taurus’s tenacity and Virgo’s sharp mind are a make the union last.
good combination for success as a team. And Taurus
keeps a careful eye on expenditures, which pleases TAURUS AND SAGITTARIUS This might work if Tau-
thrifty Virgo. Although they lack what might be called a rus can tie a string to Sagittarius’s kite and hold on
spontaneous approach to life, neither puts a high value tight. They are attracted to each other physically, for
on that. They may have to adjust sexually, for Taurus is Taurus’s passions are ignited by Sagittarius’s uninhib-
more physical. However, Taurus will probably waken ited lovemaking. But Taurus finds it difficult to deal
Virgo’s sleeping passions. And they have everything else with Sagittarius’s roving eye and search for novelty.
in common. Sagittarius has an easy, live-and-let-live attitude about

sex and everything else, whereas Taurus is both serious
TAURUS AND LIBRA Taurus finds Libra a warm, ro- and possessive. Sagittarius refuses to stay under some-

mantic, vibrant partner. Libra was born to charm and one else’s thumb. No dull moments—but a good deal
titillate. Steady Taurus balances Libra’s indecisiveness. of quarreling. An affair can be fun.
Money may be a problem, for Libra doesn’t share Tau-
rus’s reverential attitude toward a dollar, but both tend TAURUS AND CAPRICORN Capricorn is a strong
to be acquisitive and like to collect beautiful things. match for Taurus, for they both have passions that are
Both signs are ruled by Venus and have sensual natures, straightforward and uncomplicated. There won’t be
but each expresses this quality differently. In time, Li- much romance but plenty of healthy sex. They share
bra’s fickleness and casual air toward love can drive the same goals and like the same kinds of friends, and
Taurus wild; and Libra will certainly resent Taurus’s both are fond of security and money. Capricorn is a bit
possessiveness. This romantic pairing may not last long. more secretive than Taurus would like, but all the same

Capricorn’s loyalty makes Taurus feel secure. And Tau-
TAURUS AND SCORPIO These two are opposites in rus is charmed by Capricorn’s unexpected sense of hu-

the zodiac, but they have more in common than other mor. Auguries for the long term are promising.
opposites. Both are determined and ambitious, and
neither is much of a rover. However, there are two

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 8 3



TAURUS AND AQUARIUS Neither is likely to approve TAURUS AND PISCES Pisces may not altogether un-
of the other. Taurus is conservative, careful, close- derstand Taurus’s materialistic approach to life. But the
mouthed. Aquarius is unconventional, innovative, and dependability of Taurus supplies the anchor Pisces
vivacious. Taurus is lusty and passionate, while Aquarius needs to keep from drifting away into a private sea of
operates on a mental plane. Taurus finds it hard to keep fantasy. Hardworking Taurus sets a good example for
Aquarius at home or satisfied with the delights of do- lazy Pisces. Also, Taurus’s practical, easygoing nature
mesticity. Aquarius looks for openness and self-expres- helps Pisces through its frequent changes of mood. In
sion in a relationship, while Taurus needs security and love, Taurus is devoted and Pisces is adoring. Though
comfort. Aquarius, a fancy-free loner who resents ties Pisces can be a little fey for Taurus, they’re well suited
that bind, sooner or later slips away from possessive sexually. Taurus is passionate, Pisces is sensual, and
Taurus. what’s wrong with that?

8 4 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Gemini
The Amorous Nature

8
You and Gemini Woman about her, she’s also calculating whether you’re worth her at-

tention. She experiences sexual desire in her mind before it
When you meet this coquette you are likely to become becomes a reality. As a lover, she’s quick tinder—she has an

enchanted, for she casts a spell better than Merlin. How- endless sexual curiosity and a charming willingness to exper-
ever her love affairs have a touch of the casual, and even iment. Sometimes she tends to emphasize too much the
when she becomes deeply involved or marries there will be physical responses of sex and fails on the emotional follow-
as much friendly feeling as heavy-breathing passion. through. That’s because, basically, she doesn’t commit herself

Many men who agree that Gemini women are fascinat- too deeply or reveal herself too openly.
ing think they are too difficult to figure out. If you keep Gemini woman is inclined to be restless and change-
her dual nature firmly in mind you won’t be so confused. able, and is often not satisfied with just one man on her
There is a part of her that needs love and security: to be string. Her dualistic and fickle nature demands more than
coddled, catered to, looked after, made to feel she is the one man can usually provide. To fulfill all her needs, he
most important woman in the world. But the stronger part must satisfy on several planes at once—mental, emotional,
of her nature needs stimulation and novelty. There is an ir- and sexual. Variety is the name of her game.
repressible frivolity to the personality of this high-spirited, All this makes a problem if you are out to become num-
pleasure-loving woman. ber one in her life. You have to be a composite man who

Gemini’s secret fantasy is to be a smoldering and lan- can interest her on both a sexual and a mental level. If you
guorous femme fatale. But in real life she just doesn’t have can, she will be your devoted companion, faithful lover, and
the patience, much less the time. Besides, half the men she all-seasons charmer. You can almost be sure of her.
meets aren’t worth the effort: They’re too dull. She likes to think her love is greater than that of the

She has a connoisseur’s appreciation for a really inter- one she loves, a subtle form of control that is both a re-
esting man, but if an affair loses zest, she looks for the es- proach and an encouragement for him to prove otherwise.
cape hatch. When love goes out the window she doesn’t Don’t take what Gemini woman says at face value. Even if
waste time wondering where it went. A bad experience is she believes what she says, there’s another motive behind
quickly put out of mind. In order to fall in love again, she the apparent one.
knows that she must forget having been in love before. Underneath her bewildering variety of masks, however,

Sometimes in the game of seduction she can appear there is a solid, enduring person who shows her real face
heartless because, while trying to keep you head-over-heels when she is in love. Then she may become quite possessive

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 8 5



and is even inclined to be jealous. It’s a rare lover who can tional women. (Of course, they don’t usually stay in-
deceive her and get away with it. volved.) Something about women who live on a dramatic

But why would he want to? Tempestuous, brilliant, vi- level, who really feel emotions and express them, intrigues
brant, and witty, she’s more than enough for any man. and fascinates Gemini. It’s as if through them he hopes to

uncover a new facet in himself.
You and Gemini Man If you ask him why he flits from one female to another,

He’s the world’s best date—quick-witted, charming, inter- he’ll tell you it’s because he’s searching for his own iden-
ested in his companion, generous, and imaginative about tity, or the perfect love, or some elusive goal of perfection.
places to go and things to see. A date with him is like an He was born under the sign of the Twins, and in a way he
entertainment that never ends. is looking for his astral twin, the spiritual soulmate who

Women are drawn like moths to the bright flame of his will complete his nature and put an end to his duality.
vivacity, his zest for living. And like moths, women flare It’s all too easy for you to fall into this man’s silken
briefly in his life and are gone. It won’t do any good to try web. He’s a past master at the art of seduction. Many a
to pin him down. See that bright flash of color in the gar- woman has begun a friendly relationship with a nice,
den? It’s a living butterfly, not a specimen in a case. Enjoy seemingly unaggressive, intellectual Gemini, only to find
it while you can; its stay will be brief. herself in bed with him—and not quite sure how she got

This Mercury-ruled man loves women, which is one of there. A variation of this approach is when he seems not
his secrets of success with them. The Gemini man is gen- to be interested, or is acting cool and indifferent, or is
uinely interested in what women have to say, how their even pursuing someone else for a time. Then when you
minds work, what he can learn from them. But he also start making an effort to attract him, it’s too late. He’s
needs his minimum daily requirement of fun, and when slipped the halter around your neck.
the fun leaves a relationship so does he. Just as a woman As a lover he has imagination, assurance, and flair, but
begins to take him seriously he vanishes in a puff of smoke. he may not seem fully committed. His attention is always

The truth is that the Gemini male is made uneasy by partly occupied elsewhere.
too much emotion, by a woman who takes love too seri- A romance will prove intriguing and exciting but may
ously. He thinks sex is fascinating because it continually not survive the rough spots. The initial glow rubs off, the
renews itself; but love is terminal. Curiously, though, flame starts to sputter. No regrets, though, when smoke gets
many Gemini men tend to get involved with intense, emo- in your eyes. He’s been fascinating to know.

8 6 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
How to Attract Gemini

Meet them on the high ground. Geminis’ interests are weapons. Geminis enjoy intellectual talk but they also love
wide rather than deep—they know a little about every- gossip. If you know any interesting anecdotes about the fa-
thing, but not much about any one thing. If you know one mous, near famous, or even just mutual acquaintances,
thing well, you’ll impress them. you’ll have an appreciative audience. Geminis are also fond

Gemini likes to give a friend or a lover a kind of IQ of anyone who can make them laugh.
test. If you pass, you’re welcome. You can even choose the Want to give a gift? Bracelets and rings will set off their
subject on which you’re being tested. Books, music, art, expressive hands. Or give them something to stimulate
politics—Gemini is interested in all. their busy minds: books, word games, puzzles, interesting

Beware of being too smugly conservative or conform- computer software, the latest dictionary.
ist. In Gemini’s scoring this rates as dull. However, speak Warning: Geminis are deeply sensitive, and need to
your mind frankly on any subject. Gemini admires candor have people around they trust. Never give them a reason to
and honesty, and a good exchange, even of contrary opin- suspect you are playing fast and loose with them (even if
ions, can be a firm foundation for better acquaintance. you are). And don’t you be suspicious of them; nothing dis-

Don’t try to match wits, unless you’re sure you have the tresses Geminis more than to have their motives distrusted.
verbal ammunition. Geminis of either sex wield words as

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 8 7



8
Gemini’s Amorous Combinations

GEMINI AND ARIES This lively, energetic pair can be velous parties. Sex is fun and games. But this couple is
good friends as well as good lovers. They thrive on ac- also superficial, unstable, and very restless. When they
tivity, adventure, and variety; enjoy each other’s hu- move out of the bedroom, everything becomes too
mor; and like social life. Aries will probably make the chaotic—even for twin Geminis.
decisions because Gemini has difficulty in that area.
There will be bedroom high jinks, for both are enthu- GEMINI AND CANCER Passionate Cancer fulfills
siastic about sex. Aries’s domineering streak will give Gemini’s physical needs, and Gemini’s cheerfulness
Gemini the firm direction it needs—and Gemini’s oc- brightens Cancer’s disposition. But all too soon Gem-
casional wanderings from the straight and narrow will ini’s tendency to play at love wounds oversensitive
keep Aries on its toes. Cancer. Flirtatious Gemini makes Cancer feel very in-

secure and an affair is likely to be volatile. These two
GEMINI AND TAURUS An unpromising match, have too little in common for a long-term relationship.

though at the beginning Taurus responds to Gemini’s Cancer needs security and domesticity; Gemini loathes
sparkle and Gemini is intrigued by Taurus’s uncompli- being tied down. Gemini hasn’t any patience with Can-
cated directness. But Taurus wants life to be stable and cer’s moodiness, and Gemini’s sharp tongue is too bit-
ordered, while Gemini is easily bored and looks for ing for Cancer’s fragile ego. They are doomed to a
new experiences. Taurus is devoted to home sweet downhill run.
home, while Gemini follows the lure of the open road.
Gemini finds Taurus’s lovemaking a bit on the dull GEMINI AND LEO An affectionate pair who really en-
side, and also resents the restrictive net Taurus tries to joy each other. Gemini’s amorous playfulness finds a
construct. In turn, jealous, possessive Taurus can’t han- responsive partner in eager, extroverted Leo. Leo’s self-
dle Gemini’s outside dalliances. Passions cool. confidence blinks at Gemini’s flirtatiousness with oth-

ers. Gemini’s penchant for ridicule can annoy regal
GEMINI AND GEMINI You won’t find a more versa- Leo, though, and Leo will probably demand more ado-

tile, charming, or vivacious pair. These two will never ration than Gemini is willing to give. Socially, each
bore each other, for they are interested in everything. tries to upstage the other, but they have a lot of fun to-
The pace is frenetic, but neither would dream of slow- gether doing it. They both love to laugh, and in bed
ing down. They are fascinating conversationalists, have they set off sparks. What more can they ask?
tons of friends, and together they’ll throw some mar-

8 8 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



GEMINI AND VIRGO Both are Mercury-ruled and have GEMINI AND SAGITTARIUS These two are opposites
a mental approach to life. But similarity ends there; in the zodiac and are attracted to each other like mag-
these two are star-crossed from the beginning. Virgo nets. They’ll especially enjoy each other’s minds, for
considers Gemini scatterbrained and immature. Gem- both have wide-ranging and varied interests. Sagittar-
ini thinks of Virgo as a stick-in-the-mud and a bore. ius tends to be more intellectual, Gemini more social.
Virgo’s analytical approach seems like indifference to Both are too restless and argumentative, and both need
Gemini. Virgo looks on Gemini’s busy social life as su- freedom. They may be disappointed sexually, since nei-
perficial and a waste of time. Virgo is critical; Gemini is ther is demonstrative—and Gemini is very quick to
tactless. Passions run on a low thermostat; their sex life criticize. This affair probably began impulsively and
soon turns chilly. Gemini’s eye is certain to rove. will end the same way.

GEMINI AND LIBRA These two air signs are well GEMINI AND CAPRICORN Gemini’s freewheeling,
suited intellectually and every other way. They are anything-goes attitude meets opposition from conven-
stimulating companions who will enjoy a lighthearted, tional, steady, conservative Capricorn. Capricorn worries
lovely affair. Neither is combative and they’re likely to about security, while Gemini frets about losing its liberty.
agree on everything. They are affectionate, fun-loving, Order and routine keep Capricorn content, but drive
and like social life, entertaining, and travel. Sexually Gemini to distraction. Gemini’s need for a stimulating ex-
both are fervent, neither is jealous or demanding, and istence does nothing to make Capricorn feel secure. And
Libra goes along with Gemini’s taste for experiment. Capricorn’s sober outlook puts a damper on Gemini’s
Their one problem is that they both love to spend high spirits. This isn’t an affair with high voltage—but
money. Otherwise it’s a perfect match. Gemini can help develop Capricorn’s sensual potential.

GEMINI AND SCORPIO Gemini’s imagination and GEMINI AND AQUARIUS Versatile Gemini and inno-
Scorpio’s dynamism would make a good combination vative Aquarius get along famously. They share a taste
if only these two were able to get along together. There for novelty, travel, meeting new people. Because both
is combustion in the bedroom, but they soon find out are unpredictable, things can’t always go smoothly. But
that sex isn’t everything. Scorpio is sensual, passionate, love keeps getting better, for Aquarius adores Gemini’s
demanding, jealous, inflexible. Gemini is fickle, flighty, wit and good cheer. If Gemini is somewhat inconstant
superficial, lighthearted, changeable. Gemini is a social or unstable, Aquarius understands. If the affair should
creature, Scorpio likes privacy. Scorpio’s suspicious na- end, they’ll still remain friends. In marriage, these two
ture is in constant turmoil over Gemini’s casual atti- are affectionate, devoted companions more than pas-
tude about love. It won’t be long before enough be- sionate lovers.
comes too much.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 8 9



GEMINI AND PISCES The passion quotient is high, Gemini needs freedom and new vistas; Pisces needs
and so are the problems. Emotional Pisces is too easily unending adoration. Pisces just can’t feel secure with
hurt by thoughtless Gemini. Gemini is mischievous gadabout Gemini, and tries to pull the net tighter. The
and playful, but Pisces is sensitive and takes things to claustrophobic atmosphere eventually makes it hard
heart. Each practices deception in his or her own way: for Gemini to breathe.
Gemini dissembles, Pisces won’t deal with reality.

9 0 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Cancer
The Amorous Nature

8
You and Cancer Woman flirting is done in a quiet way. Hers is not a flamboyant per-

sonality, but rather one of gentleness, depth, and richness. She
She may appear like the photograph of that dream girl is not only romantic, she’s convinced that love, love, love is the

most men carry around in a hidden locket of their minds. secret of life. She wants to discover the secret with the man of
But lurking just below the surface of that shy, sweet image her dreams. This sounds old-fashioned, but that’s part of her
is a superbly sensual woman. There are secret emotional charm: she is old-fashioned. It’s a special quality that makes
depths to her, and like the story of Sleeping Beauty and men feel protective toward her.
her Prince it takes love to awaken her eroticism. She is a A confirmed sentimentalist, she loves to collect memen-
highly sensual woman, and love unlocks the smoldering tos from the past and pore over them. She frames old photo-
fire hidden by her diffident manner. graphs, keeps old letters, stays in touch with old friends. She

Don’t expect her to be forward, however, because she is devoted to her mate and to her family.
doesn’t know how to be. You must pick up the subtle clue, Affectionate, romantic, feminine, sympathetic, imagi-
the unspoken invitation. She may be trying to get in touch native, and sweetly seductive, this quintessential woman
with you while your emotional phone is off the hook. If you can make home a place that a man never wants to leave.
miss that first chance, you’re probably out of luck. Her feel-
ings are too vulnerable for her to risk another overture. You and Cancer Man

As with all the water signs (Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces), the This sensual man doesn’t come at you directly. He’d
quality of trust is very important to her in a relationship. rather play the attentive courtier, the one who brings candy,
The Cancer woman is very cautious about giving her heart flowers, and champagne and takes you to nice places. At
away. The two things she needs more than anything else are most, he’ll make an oblique suggestion that could as easily
love and security, and she offers undying loyalty to a man be taken for a mere risqué quip. That’s to leave himself an
who makes her feel secure. She has eyes only for him, and avenue of escape, for he can’t stand rejection.
she’ll cling as tenaciously as if she had pincers instead of He falls in love easily, for he is inclined to be a roman-
arms. A betrayal in love is devastating, and takes a long, long tic daydreamer. His imagination becomes quickly engaged
time for her to forgive. In truth, she never forgives—ra- and anything will start him off: a wisp of a remembered
tionally, yes, perhaps, but emotionally, never. fragrance, an almost-familiar face, the sound of a foghorn

On first meeting Cancer woman you will find that she can across the water. He begins to visualize scenes out of the
be flirtatious, although in true subtle Cancerian fashion her past or to fantasize about the future. He can work up a

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 9 1



whole romantic scenario out of very little raw material. man heart, especially of its pain. He can actually feel his way
Unfortunately, this also applies when he becomes jealous. into your emotions and sense your problems. Loving and
He must know that his chosen mate is faithful at all times. attentive, he is willing to go to any lengths to please the ob-
His own fidelity runs very deep, and he demands total ject of his desire. He has a gift to amuse and will spoil you
fealty in return. Anything else is a threat to the stability outrageously if given half a chance.
that he prizes, the security that he needs. Above all, he wants the woman of his dreams to share

Cancer male is very affectionate, and he certainly does- his dreams with him. He is faithful and takes his role as a
n’t insist on having a number of women around. (“If strong male protector very seriously. He is a very masculine
you’ve got one good woman, who needs two?” a Cancer man, not necessarily in an outer show of brawn and rugged-
male would ask.) Lovemaking is best for him when it hap- ness but in his inner strength of tenderness and sensitivity. If
pens at the whim of the moment. you’re the kind of woman who likes being pampered and

He is intensely imaginative and expressive, with remark- looked after—having a constant devoted companion—Can-
able empathy and an instinctive understanding of the hu- cer is definitely your man.

9 2 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
How to Attract Cancer

Cancerians are vulnerable—to praise as well as criticism. advice. Finances, politics, and sports are other areas that
Let them know directly and forthrightly how much you interest them greatly.
admire them. Nothing will draw Cancerians out of their For a date, get tickets to the theater or to some art or
shells more readily than the warmth of approval. Pick out cultural event. Cancerians respond to romantic, strongly
a quality that you can, in all sincerity, compliment them melodic music, and are inclined to enjoy concerts and
on. Do you like what he’s wearing? Her smile? Their ability opera. A nice touch would be to pick a restaurant where
to listen attentively? (No one is better at this than Cancer.) there are strolling musicians.
Tell them so. Don’t be insincere and single out some qual- Cancerians don’t rush headlong into anything. They
ity merely for the sake of having something complimen- are essentially cautious, not to say skittish, about making a
tary to say. Cancerians can always spot the difference be- commitment. They try to avoid giving a definite yes or no.
tween the compliment that is sincere and the one meant Tip: The longer they delay, the less likely that there will be
only to cajole. a favorable outcome.

Show Cancerians the softer side of your nature. Are A true Cancerian sooner or later finds some cause for
you interested in charities? Talk about that. Or children? feeling injured. Their amazing memory dwells on the past
By all means. Or discuss a genuine personal problem that’s and constantly recalls old wounds. A Cancerian who for-
troubling you. Then Cancerians will be able to show their gives and forgets is as rare as a vegetarian snake.
best side: their empathy and ability to give constructive

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 9 3



8
Cancer’s Amorous Combinations

CANCER AND ARIES These two may start out like a sexual energies are well matched, Cancer will have a
house on fire, but it won’t take long for the fire to burn hard time adjusting to Gemini’s playful, nonchalant at-
out. Aries’s venturesome spirit and wandering eye en- titude toward love. Possessive Cancer will try to keep
flame Cancer’s jealousy. And Cancer is too easily hurt Gemini hemmed in, and Gemini can’t abide that. It’s a
by Aries’s aggressiveness and sharp tongue. Cancer short countdown to the finish.
likes security and domesticity; Aries needs freedom to
explore new worlds. Cancer wants to cherish and pro- CANCER AND CANCER They have a lot in common,
tect a lover, an attitude that Aries finds too claustro- and that’s the trouble. They understand each other
phobic. Both like money, but Aries wants to spend it perfectly and can wound each other without even try-
and Cancer wants to keep it. Too many temperamental ing. Both are too sensitive, too demanding, too depend-
problems here. ent. Cancers are obsessively concerned with their emo-

tional psyches: Each needs an enormous amount of
CANCER AND TAURUS Both need security and a attention, coddling, and reassurance, and resents the

sense of permanence, and both are loving, affectionate, other for not giving enough. On the plus side, they’re
and passionate as well. Cancer adds a dash of imagina- sensual bedmates whose erotic imaginations are sparked
tion to Taurus’s otherwise staid approach to sex. Tau- by each other. But that’s rarely enough. This treadmill
rus is possessive and that’s just fine with clinging Can- goes nowhere.
cer. Both are acquisitive moneymakers, and together
they enjoy the delights of hearth and home. Taurus CANCER AND LEO Cancer has to get used to Leo’s ex-
likes being catered to, and Cancer is the one to do it. troverted exuberance. Otherwise, generous, open-
Steady-going Taurus is also good for Cancer’s moodi- hearted, strong Leo is just what insecure Cancer is
ness. What each needs the other supplies. looking for. Cancer’s marvelous intuitions tell it ex-

actly how to handle proud and flamboyant Leo. Admi-
CANCER AND GEMINI Gemini’s sparkle immediately ration and a lot of flattery are what are needed to keep

intrigues Cancer, but Cancer won’t find security with Leo purring with contentment. Leo is domineering in
fickle, fly-by-night Gemini. Basically, Cancer’s nature is the bedroom and a little too forthright sexually for
emotional and Gemini’s is cerebral, and that makes it Cancer. But Leo’s sunny disposition is a wonderful an-
difficult for them to understand each other. Although tidote for Cancer’s moodiness.

9 4 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



CANCER AND VIRGO Cancer’s responses are emotive they feel safe and loved. This relationship has great in-
while Virgo’s are analytical, but their personalities mesh timacy, intensity, and depth. Things just get better all
so well that it doesn’t seem to matter. Cancer may have the time.
to warm up Virgo a little, but there is fire under the ice.
This can turn into a secure, comfortable, and affection- CANCER AND SAGITTARIUS Outgoing Sagittarius
ate relationship. Cancer’s struggle for financial security can open intellectual vistas for imaginative Cancer, but
works perfectly with goal-oriented Virgo. Cancer un- unfortunately Sagittarius won’t give Cancer the secu-
derstands Virgo’s fussy ways, and steady Virgo helps rity in love that it always needs. Cancer’s jealousy is
balance variable Cancer. Cancer’s dependency neatly aroused by Sagittarius’s flighty, faithless ways; Sagittar-
complements Virgo’s need to protect, and each is anx- ius is bored by Cancer’s dependency. Sagittarius likes to
ious to please the other. Good auguries. wander, while Cancer is a stay-at-home. Cancer’s com-

mitment to total togetherness only makes Sagittarius
CANCER AND LIBRA This pair operates on entirely desperate to get away. In addition, outspoken Sagittar-

different levels: Cancer wants love to be emotionally ius’s bluntness continually wounds sensitive Cancer.
transcendent, Libra seeks perfect intellectual commun- Better friends than lovers.
ion. Libra has no sympathy for Cancer’s moods, and
Cancer is made insecure by Libra’s detachment and CANCER AND CAPRICORN There’s an initial sexual
shallow emotions. Cancer is too temperamental and attraction because they are a polarity in the zodiac. If
possessive for airy Libra. They have a hard time estab- they can overcome their opposites in temperament, they
lishing real sexual rapport, and that exasperates Can- can make a winning combination. But career-oriented
cer. They both love a beautiful home, but Libra also Capricorn has too many other interests to give Cancer
needs parties and people and outside pleasures. When all the attention it needs. Cancer is shy and sensitive and
Cancer turns critical, especially about Libra’s extrava- needs affection, while Capricorn is brusque, aloof, and
gance, Libra starts looking elsewhere. domineering. Cancer takes Capricorn’s reserve as a per-

sonal rebuff and becomes moody and critical. The dif-
CANCER AND SCORPIO Cancer’s sensuality is ignited ferences may prove too great for long-term happiness.

by Scorpio’s dynamic passions, and because Cancer is
loyal, Scorpio’s jealousy isn’t provoked. Cancer’s pos- CANCER AND AQUARIUS Cancer’s warm, responsive
sessiveness will actually make Scorpio feel secure. Can- nature is chilled by Aquarius’s cool self-possession. In
cer admires Scorpio’s strength, while Scorpio finds a turn, Cancer’s clinging, cloying demonstrativeness
haven in Cancer’s emotional commitment. Both are makes Aquarius feel hemmed in. Aquarius is quick-
extremely intuitive and sense what will please the minded, unpredictable, apt to be impatient with cau-
other. Together they can build a happy cocoon where tious, hesitant Cancer. And thin-skinned Cancer is

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 9 5



easily hurt by Aquarius’s caustic humor. Cancer doesn’t worker—together they can make their dreams a real-
understand Aquarius’s essential detachment. Cancer ity. Pisces provides romance in Cancer’s life, and
needs to feel close and secure; Aquarius is a lone Cancer is the all-protective lover Pisces needs. Both
wolf. Sex may be all right, but there’s little else going are emotional, intensely devoted, sensitive to each
for them. other’s moods. They’ll hit it off in the boudoir, for

both are responsive sexually. Cancer has to take the
CANCER AND PISCES This is an affectionate, sensi- lead, but Pisces is a very willing, erotic follower. A

tive couple who will bolster each other’s ego. Pisces is harmonious match.
an imaginative dreamer, but Cancer is an imaginative

9 6 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Leo
The Amorous Nature

8
You and Leo Woman that she has an intense drive toward self-realization. Leo

woman feels she was born to be someone special, and she
What she wants most is praise. A lover has to ignore must express this feeling. Happily, she finds enormous

her shortcomings (she doesn’t really think she has any) self-expression in love.
and dwell on her virtues. In the same way applause makes A Leo woman in love gives her heart without reserva-
the star of a play seem larger than life, the lavish admira- tions. Her romantic nature is intense, vital, and uninhibited.
tion of a lover makes Leo woman feel plugged into a life- She doesn’t hold anything back, but by the same token she
enhancing incandescence. If you hope to get anywhere expects her chosen mate to be just as fervid as she is. Al-
with her, you had better begin by accepting her inalienable though Leo is a marvelously sensual creature, kinky varia-
right to be marvelous. You may go on from there to a tions are not her game. She prefers to heighten and drama-
sounder, more realistic relationship, but that’s the founda- tize the familiar by her passionate involvement.
tion stone on which to build. Leo woman thrives in marriage, but her partner may

You would be wise not to let her know if you have an find living with her a bit overwhelming at times. It isn’t
eye for other women. As far as she’s concerned, she’s a cos- easy being attendant to a queen, and Leo woman can be
mology of one. The mere suggestion that she’s in competi- tyrannical. The worst scenario is when a Leo woman
tion with other women turns her off completely. She’s marries a man she can dominate completely. In this rela-
above that sort of rivalry, and is actually a little afraid of it. tionship she may get total submission, but that is too lit-
She can’t be a loser—and one way to avoid being a loser is tle compensation for the full, deep, robust kind of love
not to get into the race. she needs. When she feels shortchanged in love, Leo

However, she has to be free to rack up male conquests. woman will turn bitter and carping.
You’ll hardly ever see her without a man in tow, and often On the other hand, with a genuine prince consort, a
several. There is something about her flamboyance, her queen can bestow her truly royal gifts—and Leo female
queenlike assurance, that dazzles and attracts. She wears certainly has them to bestow. If you give her the affection
men as other women wear jewelry—to embellish her im- and admiration that her nature requires, you will waken a
age—and rarely lacks for admirers. tender passion in this extraordinary woman. And you will

Most descriptions of Leo woman make her sound have a mate who is truly fit for a king.
hopelessly self-centered. It would be more accurate to say

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 9 7



You and Leo Man he is openhearted, trusting, asking nothing but what he is
entitled to. If told that he sometimes asks too much of

He falls in love readily, then finds it hard to sustain the those close to him, he simply wouldn’t understand how. Af-
emotion. For him, falling out of love is as simple as falling ter all, why should anyone refuse him? In pleasing him, they
out of bed. please themselves. A true democrat, he believes everyone is

Don’t make the mistake of thinking Leo man is casual equal—equally ready to serve him.
about love. He isn’t; in fact, he sees love in practically If this sounds like an overbearingly self-assured type
mythic terms. To him, a love affair is never minor or mild riding for a fall, look a bit closer. Underneath Leo’s surface
or murky. It is high drama; it is a grand passion. No one majesty is a sensitive, vulnerable man who needs reassur-
else in the zodiac can more easily make you believe that ance—and praise. Praise is as necessary to him as food
you and he are the first, original, quintessential lovers in and drink.
the world. The woman who wins his favor moves instantly In sexual relationships he won’t voyage beyond the far-
to center stage. The spotlight is on her, she radiates in the thest limits of the known to find a new continent of sen-
bright circle of his admiration. It’s a heady experience to suality. He’s a cautious navigator who sticks close to
have a Leo lover. Then suddenly the lights are turned off, charted waters. On the other hand, a woman will never
the curtain falls, the play is over—and she doesn’t know end up with a sunken wreck.
why. And he won’t explain. Most likely, it’s because Leo If you rub his mane the right way, Leo the Lion is a mar-
was in love with a mythical creature of his imagination— velously affectionate, cheerful companion. He is kind,
a beautiful adoring princess completely fulfilled by him. strong, generous, something of a spendthrift, but usually
When the real woman supersedes the myth, Leo gets on successful in business. A woman who gets this flamboyant,
his white horse and rides off. magnetic overachiever with the sunny disposition has only

Leo man likes a woman to cater to his every whim. Yet one problem. Somehow she has to teach him that the sole
he would be surprised to hear himself described as de- object of his adulation does not have to be himself.
manding. He doesn’t see himself that way at all. He thinks

9 8 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
How to Attract Leo

You can always win over anyone born under this sign if Pet peeve for Leo men: Heavy makeup on women.
you show by your actions, your attention, and your un- Pet peeve for Leo women: A tightwad date.
ceasing compliments that you are completely and hope- Bear in mind that both male and female Leos think the
lessly lost in admiration. If you really feel that way, you’re best is none too good for them. Leo travels first class. If
in clover. If you don’t, fake it. Leos won’t suspect your sin- you’re trying to impress a Leo woman, take the rubber
cerity because they think they’re fully as wonderful as you band off your bankroll, never wince at a restaurant check,
tell them they are. Leos almost never think compliments get the best orchestra seats, and don’t overlook the flowers,
go too far. champagne, and telephone calls.

There is another way to make an impression on Leo: be If you’re trying to impress a Leo male, get the best cut
funny. They have a fine sense of humor and love to be en- of steak from the butcher and don’t spare the wine. If he
tertained. (Didn’t every monarch have a court jester?) brings a good bottle of wine (and he will), exclaim over

You can’t go wrong attending a cultural event, espe- the astute choice he made, then exclaim again over the
cially a preview of some kind. Accompany Leo to a cock- wine’s bouquet and taste. And then bring out your final
tail party that marks the opening of a new art gallery, an surprise—that flaming dessert or special after-dinner
advance movie screening, or a lecture by an author about brandy.
his or her forthcoming book. Keep the ambiance posh.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 9 9



8
Leo’s Amorous Combinations

LEO AND ARIES These two are the superstars of the great fun, but Leo may also become jealous because of
zodiac. These well-matched partners get along mar- Gemini’s lighthearted approach to love. Leo is more
velously in the bedroom. They’re an unbeatable com- intense than airy Gemini. Life together will be stimu-
bination for deriving sheer joy and excitement from lating and exasperating, but the outlook is good if
sex. They also share the same likes and dislikes in other Gemini can stay faithful. Otherwise—poof!
areas of life. However, they need all that rapport to
overcome one big problem—the head-on collision of LEO AND CANCER Both are romantics, though in dif-
two super egos, each of whom wants to play the lead- ferent ways: Leo wants a relationship to be glorious and
ing role. They have to learn to share center stage. Oth- exciting, Cancer wants it to be meaningful and fulfilling.
erwise, a glorious mating. Leo doesn’t get as overwrought as Cancer, who takes

things more seriously. Cancer needs security and tran-
LEO AND TAURUS Leo’s sovereign right to rule runs quility and is a stay-at-home. Leo is boisterous and a

smack up against Taurus’s determination to have its gadabout who loves to be on constant display. Cancer’s
own way. Both are fixed signs, so neither will give an dependency will please Leo provided a little adoration
inch. Leo merely becomes angrier and Taurus more is thrown in. Leo is flamboyant in love, and Cancer is
obstinate. Thrifty Taurus is also appalled at Leo’s care- responsive, loyal, and intense; Leo likes that. Mixed
less spending habits. Taurus is cautious and deliberate; signals.
Leo expansive and extravagant. Taurus stubbornly re-
fuses to give Leo constant worship, and Leo is too self- LEO AND LEO When a king and queen are together,
centered to give Taurus the devotion it needs. Leo is heads turn. This couple can have a royal mating—a
much more exuberant than Taurus, both in and out of grand passion conducted on a grand scale. Both are
the bedroom. Too many personality conflicts here. romantic, colorful, exuberant about life, and highly

sexed. The main question is: Who’s going to be in
LEO AND GEMINI They strike it off immediately be- charge? It’s difficult for one Leo to make room for an-

cause they like so many of the same things—glam- other ego as large as its own, but that’s exactly what’s
orous social life, parties, theater, lots of friends. Lively, needed here. Each not only wants to sit on the throne,
independent Gemini brings out Leo’s joie de vivre. each wants to be the power behind it as well. Grand
Their affair is a merry chase after variety and amuse- lovers and interesting rivals.
ment. Leo finds Gemini’s imaginative sexual high jinks

1 0 0 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



LEO AND VIRGO Leo is drawn to Virgo’s intellectual- LEO AND SAGITTARIUS Leo is enthralled by opti-
ism, but Virgo doesn’t understand Leo’s dramatic na- mistic, extroverted Sagittarius, and fun-loving Sagittarius
ture. Leo can’t get from cool, reserved Virgo the sexual is enchanted with Leo’s sunny openness to life. To-
responsiveness it demands. Virgo is practical and pru- gether they share a liking for freedom, adventure, and
dent; Leo is extravagant and a spendthrift. Leo likes to meeting new people. Both are passionate and fiery sex-
live life in a really big way, but Virgo is conservative, ual types, and if anyone can keep Sagittarius faithful
frugal, and a nitpicker, which puts a damper on Leo’s it’s Leo. Leo’s natural quality of leadership brings out
high spirits. Virgo won’t be dominated either. Leo what loyalty Sagittarius can give. Leo is very proud, but
needs lots of flattery, but Virgo’s tendency is to punc- self-confident and expansive Sagittarius is perfectly
ture inflated egos. Both of them should look elsewhere. happy to let Leo strut.

LEO AND LIBRA Leo’s creative side meshes well with LEO AND CAPRICORN Leo’s romantic, expansive na-
Libra’s penchant for artistic and esthetic pursuits. Leo ture is curbed by cautious, practical Capricorn. Merry
is more interested in the strictly physical side of love Leo likes to kick up its heels, but Capricorn disap-
than Libra, but Leo’s style and brio can win Libra over. proves of too much self-indulgence. Both are highly
Libra is indecisive and Leo will naturally take charge. sexed, but with basic differences. Leo needs glamour in
The checkbook may not always balance because they’re lovemaking and Capricorn can’t supply it. Leo will
both extravagant and love a beautiful setting in which think Capricorn stingy with affection because Capri-
to shine. Each will also try to outdo the other in order corn’s reserved, undemonstrative nature cannot give
to get attention. But in the bedroom, Leo is the mas- Leo the adoration it needs. Neither will take a backseat
ter—and that’s what Leo likes. or let the other dominate. This affair will be on the

rocks before it even leaves the dock.
LEO AND SCORPIO There’s immediate sexual fascina-

tion with each other. But Leo finds it hard to cope with LEO AND AQUARIUS There is initial physical attrac-
Scorpio’s jealousy and possessiveness. Intense, smolder- tion between these two, but Aquarius’s tendency to ana-
ing Scorpio is on a too-short fuse, while Leo is much lyze and criticize will shake Leo’s confidence and deflate
more buoyant. Leo thinks Scorpio difficult and tem- its ego. Leo views Aquarius’s aloof emotions as a per-
peramental; Scorpio considers Leo pretentious and a sonal rejection. Also, Aquarius’s unconventional, experi-
showoff. Scorpio doesn’t understand Leo’s need to be mental approach to love may prove upsetting to Leo,
continually surrounded by an admiring audience. who doesn’t like to wander too far afield. Both like so-
Scorpio would rather dominate than admire, and that cializing and meeting new people, but Leo always needs
doesn’t suit Leo’s kingly state. Sex isn’t everything. to perform on center stage, which makes Aquarius im-

patient and irritable. Aquarius is too independent to
become Leo’s devoted subject. And that’s where it ends.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 0 1



LEO AND PISCES Leo is flamboyant, domineering; Pisces while Pisces prefers the sheltered life. Both are more in-
is unworldly and mystical. They intrigue each other be- clined to take than to give. Leo can’t tolerate Pisces’s ul-
cause they are so different, but the differences don’t mesh trasensitivity, nor Pisces’s inclination toward exotic
well. Leo’s active, outgoing nature doesn’t harmonize with boudoir activity. Before long, the lion will start to roam.
Pisces’s dreamy introspection. Leo needs public acclaim,

1 0 2 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Virgo
The Amorous Nature

8
You and Virgo Woman lot of trouble for. Also, she fears being trapped into a long-

term living arrangement with the wrong man. Before she
She keeps her passions on a tight rein, but underneath marries or enters into a meaningful affair, she is careful to

emotions are surging. Outwardly she may appear calm, note where the exit doors are. For a Virgo woman, falling in
sometimes even remote and unreachable, for the quintes- love can take a long time. She moves forward step by step, re-
sential Virgo has a serene, almost classic repose. Yet hers is vealing the layers of her deep sensitivity, learning to trust.
one of the most conflicted signs. She is discriminating. Rather than go out with a man

Basically, Virgo woman distrusts and is a little afraid of who doesn’t interest her, she’ll stay home and read a good
emotion. To her it represents the unknown, turbulent sea book. This does not mean (as some have tried to imply)
on which she may be set adrift without map or compass or that she thinks lovemaking is a poor substitute for a good
rudder. Because of this a man may wonder if she isn’t a bit book. It’s just that she doesn’t mind waiting for Mr. Right
cold. She isn’t. Virgo’s enormous capacity for loving will to come along. When he does he will find behind her cool
pour out, as from a rich treasury, once her emotions are facade a real woman waiting, warm and responsive. Mean-
unlocked. Virgo is a much misunderstood sign, and Virgo while, her off-putting manner has served a useful purpose.
women particularly are often characterized as timid, eva- It kept Mr. Wrong from intruding where he was not
sive, reserved. This is also untrue. What Virgo women do wanted.
have is self-possession, a sense of passion that is controlled The real clue to understanding Virgo woman’s amorous
by discipline. nature is to remember that she believes in true love. When

Virgo is an earth sign, and like all the earth signs (Taurus, she truly loves, her inhibitions are never in control of her
Virgo, Capricorn) she is an enigmatic combination of sensu- passions. She adores pleasing her man and can be extrava-
ality and conservatism. The Virgo woman likes men, but she gantly sensual, endlessly willing to experiment with tech-
is very careful about allowing herself to become too involved niques that heighten the ecstasy. However, this is not a
with them. Even if she’s wildly attracted to you, she has an woman you can take for granted. You must strive hard to
aloofness. Her eyes and body may say come close, but her win her, please her, fulfill her. If you can, you will have a
manner puts up a shield. To begin with, she would never partner who pays you back in lifelong dividends of love,
stoop to be obvious. She knows she’s worth a man going to a loyalty, and happiness.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 0 3



You and Virgo Man While he doesn’t find it easy to express himself directly
about his emotional needs, he has a way of making his

He gives an impression of being in firm control of his dissatisfactions known. He can be demanding. He can find
emotions, but this is often a disguise. The Virgo man is fault. The woman who finds this annoying has one impor-
sensitive, receptive, sensuous, and cautious all at the same tant consolation: His demands and his fault-finding are
time. He will never sweep you into the bedroom and take proof he cares about her. Otherwise, he wouldn’t bother.
you by force. For one thing, he has too much respect for a To some women he may seem lacking in romance, at
woman. least in the cinematic tradition of moonlight, roses, and

Because he does not find it easy to express his own masked men riding into a cobbled courtyard. A woman
deep feelings, he is often drawn to women who are effu- will never look down from her balcony to find him
sive and vivacious. Yet he has a horror of getting em- strumming his guitar and singing romantic ballads. But
broiled in tempestuous scenes and angry tantrums. Emo- in the cold light of dawn, in the real world we all inhabit,
tionality upsets him, but because he is both attracted to it Virgo men have a lot more to offer than masked riders or
and disturbed by it, his love life never runs as smoothly as lovesick troubadours. For one, a Virgo lover will still be
he’d like. This man’s love nature can be described as pri- there with the dawn’s early light. He won’t be riding off
vate. At times there is even a surface quality of untoucha- to sing ballads to someone else.
bility about him, but this is an expression of his self- Virgo dreams about changing his image. He would like
containment. He has a keen sense of the dividing line be- to be a love-’em-and-leave-’em type, a Don Juan, a bon
tween your psyche and his. vivant. The woman who taps this secret Virgoan fantasy

The woman a Virgo man ultimately chooses has to will reap the surprisingly rich and memorable rewards of
measure up to very high standards. What he particularly his pent-up sensuality. It’s all there under the surface, and
doesn’t like in a woman is any suggestion of coarseness, it’s the kind of sensuality that improves with time. As a
cheapness, or loose and careless conduct. Fastidious is a lover, he is simple, direct, and for real.
good word for what he does like. If you are looking for quality, not glitter, Virgo is your

man.

1 0 4 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
How to Attract Virgo

The rule to bear in mind is: Don’t overpower. Underplay. Don’t let Virgo’s worrying upset you. People born under
Always try to be a good sport. If that drink you’re invited this sign are natural worriers. Will they be on time for the

for turns out to be at a health food store and consists of carrot show? Will they catch the plane? Will it rain or snow? Will
and cucumber juice, smile and gulp it. Virgos are finicky eaters the mail arrive? The list of their worries is endless. It’s no
and careful about their health. With them, the laws of nutri- use pointing out that most of the things they worry about
tion rate just behind the Ten Commandments. never actually happen. They’ll go right on worrying any-

In addition to the old standby of discussing work- way; it’s their way of coping with what might go wrong.
connected topics, another good conversational subject is pets. Both male and female Virgos appreciate gifts that are
Virgos like the smaller variety, especially the exotic kind. useful and practical. They are also great hobbyists and are

Quickly establish your cultural credentials. Virgos are sure to have at least one special interest.
drawn to people whose intelligence or learning is superior Very few special occasions with Virgo will occur on the
to their own. spur of the moment—at least not if Virgo can help it.

Don’t probe too closely into their personal affairs. They There will be careful planning; all the moves will be fig-
guard their private life. Avoid noisy places or entertain- ured out in advance. Virgo is marvelous at working behind
ment that is vulgar or offensive. Virgos pride themselves the scenes to accomplish this. All you have to do is relax
on their good taste. and enjoy it.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 0 5



8
Virgo’s Amorous Combinations

VIRGO AND ARIES Virgo can be intrigued by Aries’s Gemini needs freedom to pursue its varied interests.
audaciousness, but Virgo’s prudent ways soon clash Virgo resents this, and will nag and try to dominate.
with Aries’s colorful personality. They have difficulty Gemini will soon stray to other lovers.
communicating, because Virgo wants to talk and Aries
wants to act. Their arguments will probably be more VIRGO AND CANCER A stimulating affair, for they
passionate than their lovemaking. Aries will think arouse each other’s beneath-the-surface sensuality.
Virgo is inhibited; Virgo will consider Aries impulsive Cancer isn’t too forceful, which suits Virgo fine. And
and wild. Aries likes a flamboyant social life; Virgo is the little attentions won’t be neglected, which suits
happy with quiet, intellectual friends. Aries is also the Virgo even better. Cancer is affectionate and sentimen-
type to bring out Virgo’s worst habits of nitpicking and tal and makes Virgo feel secure. This couple also likes
nagging. Exit romance. money and domestic comfort, and Cancer’s depend-

ency fits perfectly with Virgo’s protectiveness. On the
VIRGO AND TAURUS Virgo is analytical while Taurus downside, both tend to be overcritical. On the upside,

is sensuous, but Taurus’s strong passions can spark each draws the other out of its shell.
Virgo. If that happens, they make lovely love. Practical,
down-to-earth, satisfied with the tried-and-true, these VIRGO AND LEO Highly physical Leo takes it as a per-
two have much in common. Both try to build for a se- sonal affront if Virgo doesn’t match its leonine ardor.
cure future, both are homebodies, both share a fond- Virgo’s passive and reserved nature frustrates Leo and
ness for money. Virgo’s rational approach and Taurus’s leads to quarrels. Virgo isn’t quick to hand out praise,
persistence are also a good moneymaking combination. and Leo lives on nothing but. Leo is a spendthrift,
Auguries couldn’t be more promising. Virgo is careful with pennies. They’re both very inde-

pendent, but Leo exhibits this in a temperamental way,
VIRGO AND GEMINI They are attracted to each other while Virgo is very private. Virgo simply will not be

because of a mutual interest in intellectual ideas. Both dominated by tyrannical Leo, and always has its guard
have active minds, but the rapport ends there. Gemini’s up. This affair has a shorter life than a mayfly.
amorous nature is too impulsive and unstable to suit
Virgo. Gemini dismisses Virgo as a stick-in-the-mud. VIRGO AND VIRGO All is smooth sailing as long as
Virgo considers Gemini irresponsible and adolescent. these perfectionists curb their instincts for finding

1 0 6 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



fault. Actually, they bring out the very best in each VIRGO AND SAGITTARIUS These two are like the
other. They are responsible, sensitive, intelligent, and grasshopper and the ant. Sagittarius’s free spirit has
take love seriously. They also share passions of the nothing in common with hardworking Virgo. Sagittar-
mind and will never bore each other. Both think that ius has a reckless gambler’s spirit, while Virgo carefully
there are more important things in life than sex; they builds for future security. Both are intellectual signs,
may end up just talking in bed. There will probably be but the way their minds work clashes with each other.
a continual contest over who is leader, but they have Sagittarius is expansive and extravagant, while Virgo
too much else in common for that to matter. prefers a simple, ordered, and unpretentious life. Sagit-

tarius considers Virgo’s sexual attitudes rather prudish,
VIRGO AND LIBRA Libra is too frivolous and shallow and won’t stay long in one bedroom anyway.

for Virgo’s taste. Libra enjoys spending money, going to
parties, and being the center of attention. Virgo criti- VIRGO AND CAPRICORN A harmonious pairing.
cizes and makes Libra feel unloved. Libra may tap Capricorn’s ambition and drive for success meshes well
Virgo’s hidden sensuality, but their personalities are al- with Virgo’s perfectionism and energy. Both are diligent,
together too different for real compatibility. Virgo disciplined, and have a sense of purpose. They admire one
will try to curb and dominate Libra’s fickle and outer- another and take great pride in pleasing each other. Both
directed nature. Virgo is reserved and practical, and need respect and approval (though neither will confess
Libra views this as a personal rebuff. Libra will soon this), and each intuitively gives the other exactly that. Sex-
drift away in search of more fun-loving companions. ual compatibility becomes a mutual achievement; in love-

making, though, Capricorn usually takes the lead.
VIRGO AND SCORPIO Sensual Scorpio keeps trying to

entice Virgo into ever-bolder sexual adventures. But VIRGO AND AQUARIUS They are both rational and
Virgo is pleased because Scorpio is also possessive and intellectual and tend to view love in the abstract, but
fiercely loyal, which makes Virgo feel loved and pro- the similarity ends there. Aquarius has venturesome
tected. They also admire each other’s minds. Virgo is ideas and thinks Virgo unresponsive or cold. Actually,
logical, intellectual, analytical. Scorpio is imaginative, each has a distant quality: Virgo is cautious about
visionary, and perceptive. Each sometimes has trouble emotional giving; Aquarius’s thoughts are in the far-off
expressing real feelings: Scorpio is volatile but secretive; clouds. Aquarius is interested in other people, in
Virgo is self-restrained and reserved. There may be causes, and in setting the world right. Virgo seeks per-
some conflict about who runs things, but Virgo’s will- sonal achievement and financial security. Aquarius is
ingness to compromise keeps Scorpio tractable. outgoing, inventive, a visionary. Virgo is reserved, pru-

dent, and very practical about its ambitions. This cou-
ple may not even make it as friends.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 0 7



VIRGO AND PISCES To Virgo, love means security and Pisces is fascinated by Virgo’s incisive, analytical mind.
mental compatibility. To Pisces, love is a sweeping, all- However, disillusion quickly sets in. Pisces’s extrava-
enveloping emotion. At first Virgo is powerfully at- gance, secretiveness, and dreaminess frustrate prag-
tracted to Pisces, as opposites often are: sentimental, matic, orderly Virgo. Also, Virgo isn’t likely to adapt to
in-love-with-love Pisces is very intriguing to Virgo, and some of Pisces’s sexual preferences.

1 0 8 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Libra
The Amorous Nature

8
You and Libra Woman begins losing interest. You must wait until she’s ready to give

her next performance and dazzle you again.
As a true child of Venus, Libra woman is in love with To some people, the Libra woman appears to project a

the idea of being loved. Expert in the art of enchanting succession of images rather than an integrated personality.
men, she views seduction as an art form. She is, first and She deals in moods and nuances, and expects others to sense
foremost, an actress, and her lovemaking is high drama, her desires without her having to declare them. She is always
even though there is only an audience of one. looking for a perfect companion to enhance her image, but

She is the sole person on the stage. The spotlight is on that companion exists only in her mirror.
her. In many ways the signs of Libra and Leo share this star A lover is expected to provide her with the proper set-
quality. But Leo likes to star on a bare stage with no accom- ting in which she can glow and glitter. And she wants all
paniment—and no distracting elements—whereas Libra is the trappings of romance—flowers, champagne, surprise
the prima ballerina who moves in a special and rarified weekend getaways. That is why so many Libra women are
nimbus of beauty she creates around her. To her the set- attracted to older, richer men with experience in the art of
ting is important. Libra wants to be the brightest star in pleasing a woman. In addition to affection, understanding,
the heavens; Leo wants to be the Sun and fill the heavens and sympathy, she wants a lover who will cater to her
with solitary splendor. whims. She usually attracts such men and often marries

The allure of Libra woman involves all the senses. She more than once.
is a creative artist, knows about food and wine, has refined In her youth her quest for love may lead her down differ-
taste in dressing and decoration. She has a talent for bring- ent paths. In another era, she’d have fallen for the handsome
ing out beauty in life, and she also brings these esthetic cardplayer working on a riverboat out of Natchez. But as
skills to sexual relationships. She uses romantic touches time goes on she becomes discriminating. The glamour of
(such as tucking little gifts and love notes in her man’s transient affairs fades and she is increasingly drawn to the
pocket) to make a love affair glow. luster of a permanent relationship.

Sometimes, though, a Libran woman in love feels that Most Libra women actually prefer romance to sex (the
the emotional demands of the role are too much and she physical side of love strikes them as just a little sordid). A
needs a rest from her histrionics. This is because Libra is as man who tries to appeal to this woman on a primitive
lazy in love as in most other areas. Besides, once she has sat- level isn’t going to get anywhere. She will leave him like a
isfied her primary need—to enchant and dazzle you—she ship deserting a sinking rat.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 0 9



When a love affair fades she tries to arrange an amica- tween what he knows is impossible for him to have and
ble parting. Even a discarded lover can remain an admirer, what he has.
can’t he? She doesn’t like to lose any admirers. Libra male will go a long way out of his way to steer

clear of upsetting influences. A woman will find it hard to
You and Libra Man pick a fight with him, for he never wants to give even the
Libra man is almost too popular with women because appearance of being unreasonable. In real life it takes

he has the rare ability to relate to them on what might be only one to make a quarrel, and he’ll do anything to avoid
called a feminine level. He has great personal charm and being the one. He’d rather call the whole thing off.
elegance and a refined esthetic sense. He gets so much at- Rarely does this happen, however. He is the diplomat
tention from the opposite sex that he’s a little spoiled. If a of the zodiac, the one who is able to strike a perfect bal-
woman doesn’t catch his interest quickly, he moves to a ance between what he wants and what you want.
more promising conquest. Practice has made him a suave Lovemaking is his favorite recreation. He enjoys it and
lover. Roger Moore and Marcello Mastroianni are typical is good at it. But he likes to be told how good he is, and
examples of the Libran male. told as often as possible. The Libran man is very respon-

Libra man spends an enormous amount of time and sive to admiration and flattery, and can be a most imagi-
energy cultivating relationships. (Remember, Libra is the native lover. His intimate, intuitive knowledge of female
zodiacal sign of Partnerships.) He may claim that what he anatomy and his active erotic imagination are a very at-
wants is a stable, long-term love affair, but if so he wants it tractive combination. If you want love to be a sensuous
to be the perfect love affair. He is an incorrigible idealist, experience that transcends the merely physical, Libra man
always looking for the perfect mate, someone to appreciate is what you are looking for. If you’re looking for a cave-
and understand (even idolize) him. He also has an inclina- man, however, look elsewhere.
tion toward indecisiveness and tries to strike a balance be-

1 1 0 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
How to Attract Libra

Librans are the jewels of the zodiac—the kind you see dis- you tell Librans how smart they are and how much you’ve
played in Tiffany’s windows, not on Woolworth’s shelves. learned, you won’t be making a mistake.
They exist to be admired. Their milieu is that of the social Librans dote on luxury and often judge people by the
arts, the world of good manners and pleasantries. kind of places they go to. They believe first-class people

Don’t fret about what topics to discuss. Librans have a never go to second-class places—unless they’re slumming.
great many interests—theater, antiques, decorating, art Atmosphere means a good deal, and the wrong kind of
collecting—and are marvelous conversationalists. Of setting is psychically disturbing. They don’t care how ex-
course, their favorite topic is themselves. You’ll discover pensive the right place is. Librans always think their pleas-
that even when they appear to be discussing something ure is worth the price.
else, they’re really talking about their own interests—in If you’re trying to please a Libran, show that you have
disguise. Pay the most generous compliment you can think taste. Don’t dress sloppily. Librans like to be proud of
of that has some grounding in truth and they’ll be their dates. If you invite a Libran to your house, be sure
charmed by you. the ambiance is right. No noisy stereo, no garish lighting.

If this becomes a bit wearing for you, switch to some Dinner had better be delicious (even if you order it sent
controversial problem currently in the news. Take a strong up from an expensive restaurant) and served on your
position without being challenging or disagreeable. Li- very best china and crystal—preferably by candlelight.
brans are always interested in both sides of a question, Good music is always helpful. Librans respond to harmo-
and if you express a strong opinion they will take pleasure nious sounds.
in pointing out what’s to be said for the other side. This In general, don’t hold back on anything. Go all out.
won’t lead to an argument or unpleasantness—Librans Whatever may be said against too much, too soon, Librans
dread that—but might make for lively conversation. And if believe that that’s a lot better than too little, too late.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 1 1



8
Libra’s Amorous Combinations

LIBRA AND ARIES While they’re immediately attracted care as long as they’re having fun. No jealousy or pos-
to each other, tensions also immediately arise. Libra sessiveness will spoil their good times. Both tend to be
looks for harmony and peace, while restless Aries ag- quite indecisive, so there will be lots of discussion but
gressively seeks new challenges and new worlds to con- not a lot of action. However, both know how to use
quer. Libra considers Aries rude and tactless; Aries charm to get other people to do things for them.
thinks Libra hopelessly unwilling to face facts. Aries
needs to feel independent but wants unquestioning fi- LIBRA AND CANCER Cancer might eventually under-
delity from its partner, and can’t forgive Libra’s indeci- stand Libra’s romantic nature, but Cancer is too cautious
siveness about making a commitment. Passionate Aries to press indecisive Libra for the emotional response it
is also offended by Libra’s shallow emotions. Physical needs. Disappointed at Libra’s shallowness, Cancer turns
rapport is wonderful for a while, but then what? sharply critical, and those crab-claws cut deep. Money-

oriented Cancer is also annoyed by Libra’s extravagance.
LIBRA AND TAURUS This couple shares a love of mu- Libra loves the glittering social life; Cancer is happiest in

sic and art, but hasn’t much else in common. Taurus is the warmth of its own home. Problems might be solved
a homebody, which bores Libra, who likes to shine so- in time, but the wait usually isn’t worth it.
cially. Libra spends lots of money on luxuries; Taurus
advocates financial caution. Libra dislikes Taurus’s dic- LIBRA AND LEO Libra’s amorous playfulness blends
tatorial ways and quickly loses patience with Taurus’s marvelously with Leo’s dash and energy. Leo’s gener-
stodgy attitudes. To boot, Taurus is jealous of Libra’s ous, expansive sensuality really lights Libra’s fire, and
romantic and fickle nature. They are sexually in tune, the thermometer moves up to torrid. Libra does have
but when the song is ended the malady lingers on. to approach Leo carefully on matters involving ego,

but that won’t be a problem for tactful Libra. In a real
LIBRA AND GEMINI Pleasure-loving Libra and high- conflict, Libra knows how to yield gracefully. Together

spirited Gemini are an ideal mating. Both are curious, they share a love of luxury, going to parties, and creat-
vivacious, and affectionate. For them, love is a carousel ing a beautiful home that serves as a stage set for these
that never stops. True, the fun and games are more two stars.
frolicsome than deeply passionate, but these two don’t

1 1 2 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



LIBRA AND VIRGO Libra is too affectionate and frivo- LIBRA AND SAGITTARIUS Libra is stimulated by
lous for emotionally inhibited Virgo, who takes love very Sagittarius’s eagerness for adventure, and Sagittarius is
seriously. Virgo won’t express flowery admiration, which drawn to Libra’s affectionate charm. Both are highly ro-
is the stuff of life to Libra. Stay-at-home Virgo mantic, though this quality is more dominant in Libra.
resents Libra’s social-butterfly instincts and pursuit of Libra will want to settle down before flighty Sagittarius
pleasure. Libra’s tastes are expensive. Virgo is careful, not does, but they can work that out. Charming, clever Li-
to say miserly. Libra finds Virgo fussy, critical, com- bra knows how to appeal to Sagittarius’s intellectual
pletely inflexible. Love will have a short season for side and easily keeps Sagittarius intrigued. This pairing
these two. should develop into a fun-filled, free, delightful rela-

tionship.
LIBRA AND LIBRA Equally demonstrative, lively, warm,

sociable, in love with beautiful things, they enjoy pleas- LIBRA AND CAPRICORN Libra is drawn to Capri-
ing each other in sexual ways. But with these two there’s corn’s strong sexuality, but that’s as far as it goes. Libra
a great sense of playing at love. A problem is that nei- needs flattery and attention, but Capricorn keeps its af-
ther wants to face reality. Though they are charming, fections buried. Sentimental, in-love-with-love Libra
peace-loving, and adaptable, each needs a stronger bal- won’t get much understanding from realistic, material-
ance than the other can provide. Also, because they are istic Capricorn. And Libra’s lazy, easygoing ways will of-
so much alike, the specter of boredom lurks around the fend Capricorn, who believes in hard work and achieve-
edges. But if both of them can find enough outside ment at any price. Libra is fond of socializing and
stimulation to whet their appetites, this can be an inter- nightlife, while Capricorn tends to be a loner, comfort-
esting liaison. able with only a chosen few. A short-lived romance.

LIBRA AND SCORPIO At first, Scorpio’s intensity in LIBRA AND AQUARIUS Libra’s indolently sensual na-
love flatters Libra, who is always looking for any new ture is stirred to life by Aquarius’s bold and experimen-
form of attention. But Scorpio is also touchy, moody, tal lovemaking. And these two have all the makings of a
and quick to lash out in anger, which is just the kind of beautiful friendship: harmonious vibes in socializing,
person Libra cannot bear. Possessive Scorpio tries to artistic interests, even an involvement in public affairs.
control a lover, but Libra has a need for diversion and These two will enjoy the friendship side of an affair as
won’t stay in Scorpio’s net. Libra’s flirtatiousness and much as the romantic part. Indecisive Libra is delighted
casual attitude toward sex infuriates sensual Scorpio. As with the fact that quick-minded Aquarius likes to make
Scorpio seethes and becomes steadily more jealous and decisions. With a satisfying love life and a mutual enjoy-
demanding, Libra has either to submit or to leave. ment of living, all signals are go.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 1 3



LIBRA AND PISCES They start off fine, since both are tive. Libra is gregarious and fun-loving. Pisces feels
sentimental and affectionate. In a way they are alike: neglected, and whines and scolds. Pisces senses that Li-
Both want to impose their romantic visions on reality. bra’s commitment is often insincere and that Libra’s
But Pisces needs domination, reassurance, and constant charm is mostly superficial. Sexually, Libra has to take
attention, and Libra soon finds that cloying and restric- the lead and finds that most annoying.

1 1 4 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Scorpio
The Amorous Nature

8
You and Scorpio Woman special, she is willing to play the role of aggressor. Her dy-

namo starts to whir as soon as her remarkable intuitions
Faint hearts never won a Scorpio female. It takes a man tell her that this man is someone she’ll be happy with. Her

who knows exactly what he wants to hold his ground intuitions are rarely wrong. She is gifted with the ability to
against a woman born under this sign. penetrate into hidden secrets of human nature. She can

Scorpio woman is very emotional, very affectionate, also see into a man’s sex fantasies, and with her imagina-
and very demanding. She is not interested in a light flir- tive techniques keep him hooked.
tation or a bed for the night. Neither does she believe in Scorpio is a water sign, and like all the water signs
sharing. Any man who thinks it isn’t necessary to sign a (Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces) this woman is very susceptible to
treaty just because he’s having an affair with a woman the feelings of others. Her most intense desire is for a
would do well to avoid getting involved with a Scorpio close, committed union. In a relationship she cannot bear
female. She believes in treaties with irrevocable clauses coldness or casualness or a feeling that she is being
and lots of fine print spelling out just what you can’t do. shunted aside. When she is in love she is at her most vul-

How does she get away with being so possessive and nerable, for then a lover can hurt her without even know-
jealous? Because she is a marvelous, fascinating, irresistible ing it. Another woman might forgive and forget, but when
woman—exciting in the bedroom, entertaining in the liv- Scorpio woman is hurt she will always strike back. If nec-
ing room. She carries with her an enticing air of mystery. essary, she will destroy.
She can drive a man to the brink of despair and with a However, despite what you’ve heard about Scorpio’s
gesture summon him back to the heights of happiness. willful, passionate nature, she is a faithful mate to the man

There is no in-between with this explosive female. With she chooses for her own. Hers is a fixed sign, and she pos-
any other woman of the zodiac, you can work out some sort sesses an enduring capacity for loyalty. A man could not
of compromise about who has rights and who has suffered have a fiercer ally. If Scorpio woman loves you, she will de-
wrongs. Not with her. You have to knuckle under and make fend and protect you with her dying breath. What she de-
the best of your bargain, or settle for living in the middle of mands is constancy—what she offers is fidelity. She is pos-
a permanent earthquake. sessive, but most men with a Scorpio woman in their lives

Love is very important to her, and she can turn on will tell you they want nothing more than to be possessed
enough magnetism to attract any man. If a man is really by her.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 1 5



You and Scorpio Man In matters of love he always knows the cost of what he
wants to the last decimal point. If the cost is too high—

Women sense in him a magnetic life force, and sexual- emotionally, financially, or otherwise—he won’t haggle.
ity is only one part of this magnetism. He projects an aura He’ll simply walk away.
of mystery and power, of a disturbing, unpredictable, The Scorpio man is secretive and hard to fathom, al-
thoroughly masculine presence. One reason Scorpio has though he often appears likeable, affable, and easygoing.
such a bad press is that the flaws in his character show up What you see on the surface is what he wants you to see.
more in his love life than in any other area. Nothing But even when he’s being most amiable, and he can be,
brings out the extremes to which his nature is subject as there’s a simmering danger to this man.
much as sex. He is aware of how attractive he is to women and

He has so much energy and passion you’ll have no makes the most of it. In his approach to lovemaking he
trouble seducing him—if that’s all you want. What is plans his moves carefully, not wasting time but never ap-
harder is to form a relationship with him. This is not be- pearing to be in haste. He is direct and forceful, and there
cause he doesn’t want a relationship, for it is, in fact, ex- aren’t too many women around who can avoid responding
actly what he does want. He is an intensely sensitive man to his uncomplicated physical passion. He brings out the
who can be easily hurt and who often feels lonely and un- full sensual potential in any woman with whom he’s hav-
fulfilled. The problem is that jealousies and unexpressed ing an intimate relationship. One of the things that makes
angers are very difficult to live with. He has the most inde- him really unique as a lover is that he truly understands a
fensible defenses in the zodiac. And the one thing he will woman’s needs and, if he is not threatened, will try to
never let you see is his vulnerable side. He will never allow meet them.
a woman to dominate him. If he chooses, he can keep a This vigorous, virile male can be a lot to handle, but
woman dangling on his string as long as he wants her. Scorpio man makes a woman feel like she’s the best female
When he cuts her loose, no matter how ruthless the part- she can be.
ing may be, he’ll be surprised if she shows any rancor.
He’s the only one who has a right to be vindictive.

1 1 6 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
How to Attract Scorpio

Scorpios are noted for their unpredictability, but here are a They enjoy most forms of recreation, particularly water
few general rules that may serve as a guide. sports. If you’re the type who likes a day at the beach or to be

Listen to a Scorpio carefully with full attention. There’s out on a fishing boat or to take a waterskiing lesson, you and
no way of faking it. Scorpios always know when you’re Scorpio will have that much in common. Scorpios also enjoy
pretending, and that will be the end before there’s even a parties, social affairs, charity bazaars, and places where
beginning. they can associate with successful people.

Remember an overriding Scorpio trait: curiosity. Never If you get into an argument (and you shouldn’t with
tell a Scorpio that something happened without including anyone born under this sign), please remember to be re-
the how or why. If you leave that out, you’ll be classified as spectful. Scorpios are proud, serious, and don’t believe that
either dull or superficial. Neither type gets far with persons any of their opinions should be trifled with, even good-
born under this sign. humoredly.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 1 7



8
Scorpio’s Amorous Combinations

SCORPIO AND ARIES The initial attraction is strong. Scorpio’s unceasing sexual demands. But Gemini is too
Sexually, Aries is more imaginative and more willing to changeable and inconstant for intense Scorpio, who
experiment, but Scorpio’s smoldering desires prove a needs and demands total commitment. Restless Gemini
fair match. Trouble looms in other areas, though. Both has a strong penchant for independence, while Scorpio
are selfish and both want to make the decisions. There wants to dominate and possess. Scorpio is basically a
is a basic clash of wills because Aries wants to domi- loner; Gemini likes to glitter in social settings. They’ll
nate and Scorpio wants to control. Scorpio’s secretive have some lively frolics, but all too soon the fun palls—
and brooding nature frustrates open, impulsive Aries. and Gemini starts looking for an exit.
Aries is freedom-loving, outgoing, and flirtatious, and
this enrages possessive, jealous Scorpio. Temperamental SCORPIO AND CANCER This can be a rewarding
differences undermine the sexual rapport. combination. Cancer is the passive partner, but there’s

plenty of combustible material to catch fire from Scor-
SCORPIO AND TAURUS Taurus has the stamina and pio’s abundant passions. The heat in the bedroom will

the desire to satisfy Scorpio in the bedroom. But what help cool off disputes that can arise between two jeal-
will this passionate pair do with the other twenty-three ous people. Scorpio offers strength and protectiveness,
and a half hours in the day? Both are very jealous and which is just what clinging, insecure Cancer is looking
stubborn. The difference between these two is that Tau- for. In turn, Cancer is affectionate, generous, loving,
rus wants to own a lover, like a valuable object, and and devoted—all that Scorpio wants. These two get
Scorpio tries to possess in an emotional sense. Though along together like bread and jam.
they share an affinity for finances, Scorpio is thrifty and
spurns laziness, whereas Taurus likes to spend on crea- SCORPIO AND LEO Scorpio won’t flatter Leo’s ego or
ture comforts. Scorpio is willful, Taurus is obstinate, accept Leo’s dominance. Scorpio seeks to plumb the
and both want to be the captain of what may turn out erotic psyche of a lover, whereas Leo looks for a grand
to be a sinking ship. romance. Passions and tempers are equally strong on

both sides. Fiery Leo is extravagant and likes to live on
SCORPIO AND GEMINI Scorpio is drawn to Gemini’s a majestic scale, but Scorpio disapproves of conspicu-

vivacity, and Scorpio’s complex personality fascinates ousness and waste. There’s a great deal of physical at-
curious Gemini. For a time Gemini is also intrigued by traction between them, but both are on a very short

1 1 8 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



fuse. Scorpio’s jealousy will probably provide the spark, SCORPIO AND SAGITTARIUS Scorpio is tantalized by
and when the explosion comes, the sky’s the limit! Sagittarius’s freewheeling, uninhibited style. Scorpio will

dominate but can’t keep restless, flighty Sagittarius sub-
SCORPIO AND VIRGO Restrained Virgo has trouble missive for long. Sagittarius thinks the accent should be

keeping up with highly demonstrative Scorpio and on fun and new adventure; Scorpio wants security and
doesn’t understand what all the fuss and bother is constant loving. Sagittarius is open, talkative, and casual
about. But there’s a marvelous meeting of minds and a about relationships; Scorpio is reticent, secretive, and
fine mixing of personalities. Both are devoted to family very jealous in love. Scorpio wants Sagittarius at home,
and to financial security. Neither is flighty or superfi- Sagittarius wants to roam. An affair without a future.
cial; the deep feelings that each harbors lead to a strong
commitment and loyalty. They have so much in com- SCORPIO AND CAPRICORN All of Scorpio’s power-
mon that maybe Scorpio won’t mind that Virgo’s pas- ful passions find a welcome here. Scorpio’s volatile
sions are more intellectual than physical. emotions tend to open up brooding, inner-directed

Capricorn, and the zesty goings-on add savor to a
SCORPIO AND LIBRA Scorpio’s unpredictable nature warm emotional relationship. Capricorn even likes

immediately intrigues Libra, who enjoys collecting inter- Scorpio’s jealousy—for this makes Capricorn feel se-
esting people. Scorpio satisfies Libra’s need for affection— cure. These two share a sense of purpose: they are am-
and then some—and Scorpio’s jealousy will flatter Li- bitious, determined, and serious about responsibility,
bra. But Libra is an inconstant flirt, and Scorpio is and as a team have good auguries for financial success.
supersensitive and touchy. Intense Scorpio takes love They should have clear sailing.
and commitment seriously; Libra wants a partner to
enhance its own image. Libra’s on-again-off-again atti- SCORPIO AND AQUARIUS Scorpio makes heavy
tude toward love will frustrate and upset Scorpio. This emotional demands, but to Aquarius even a love affair
mating isn’t likely to lead to anything permanent. is simply another way to broaden its horizons. Scorpio

can’t tolerate Aquarius’s independence within a rela-
SCORPIO AND SCORPIO Plenty of sexual attraction tionship or understand Aquarius’s casual air toward

here, but the emotional temperature can’t keep rising love. Aquarius is altogether too impersonal and has too
forever. These two people who are so much alike under- many outside interests to suit possessive, jealous Scor-
stand each other very little. They are highly jealous and pio. Scorpio will try to dominate and will be upset by
demanding. They are so intense that every little storm Aquarius’s unpredictable moods and love for freedom.
quickly becomes a hurricane. Both are sulky, brooding, Scorpio wants to stay at home; Aquarius wants to be
possessive. Both are in a continual struggle to force the free to go. And so on—to the finish.
other to relinquish control. Something has got to give,
and when it does it’s likely to spell The End.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 1 9



SCORPIO AND PISCES Scorpio’s strength is a perfect spice to Scorpio’s desires, and the intense emotional
bulwark for Pisces’s indecisiveness. In turn, Pisces’s needs of both signs neatly complement each other.
imagination sparks Scorpio’s creativity. Pisces is able to Pisces’s intuitive awareness and Scorpio’s depth of feel-
give Scorpio the devotion and admiration it craves, ing unite in a special closeness. This kind of mating
and their mutual fascination with lovemaking provides lasts.
a fine romantic aura. Pisces’s flair for the bizarre adds

1 2 0 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Sagittarius
The Amorous Nature

8
You and Sagittarius Woman She doesn’t always perceive the consequences of ro-

mantic entanglements. To her, life means moving forward
Like all fire sign women (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius) she is into the future, and each new love is a learning experience.

at her most vibrant when she is in love. She is drawn to the She doesn’t take into account that when a romance is over
excitement, passion, and sheer adventure of romance. Her it may leave behind a trail of wounded feelings. If an old
attitude toward life is enthusiastic and positive, and being lover harbors resentment, she is genuinely surprised.
in love intensifies these glowing feelings. Where another She likes men and enjoys the flirtations and maneuvers
woman might walk around in a dreamlike haze, a Sagittar- of a developing affair. In turn, men like her charming, easy-
ius woman in love positively radiates happiness and energy. going manner and her acceptance of what the world is like.

Sagittarius is also the sign of mental exploration. To Other women may prefer the straight and narrow path, but
her, love is not just passion but a challenge. This free spirit Sagittarius can’t help wandering over to the primrose path
finds domesticity boring. She is the perfect playmate but to pluck whatever blooms strike her fancy. When she does
only as long as she finds the game worth playing. She is find her big romance, however, this is a woman who be-
not one to make the best of a bad bargain. If she is un- lieves in loyalty to her man. She is a romantic who will
happy, she won’t resign herself or compromise or try to marry for love’s sake rather than for money or social posi-
work things out. She’ll just walk out. tion. She wants a true soul-companion.

She can’t take love as seriously as other women do. It’s A sense of humor is one of her nicest traits, and she is-
part of life to her, not the end or the beginning. If she n’t interested in a man who lacks a sense of fun. She does-
finds a man who’s a real companion, who shares her pleas- n’t welcome tempestuous, heavy-breathing relationships
ure in sports and the outdoor life, who likes to travel and that put her through an emotional wringer. What she
hates to be tied down to any one place, then love is a won- looks for is a lover who can share her sense of adventure.
derful extra added attraction. She prefers men who are intellectually stimulating, well

Her exploratory nature may lead her to have a number read, and well traveled. Sexually, she doesn’t play control
of early sex experiences, especially the kind that begin games. She wants sex to be truthful, genuine, very roman-
quickly in an exotic setting and have a passion-in-the- tic, very impulsive.
moment edge (for example, a tryst on a train speeding Basically, Sagittarius woman enjoys life and tries to
through Europe, wild sex with a new lover on a beach in make sure everyone around her enjoys it too. When this
Barbados). clever, amusing, optimistic, high-spirited woman finally

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 2 1



settles down with some lucky man, she’ll be the most de- He’s much more likely to ask you to an informal
lightful companion he can hope to find. lunch at an outdoor cafe than to a grand dress-up din-

ner. This isn’t because he is reluctant to spend money but
You and Sagittarius Man simply because he prefers the easygoing approach in all
This charming lover can be a poor choice as a hus- things. He hates whatever is artificial, pompous, or pre-

band. The symbol of his sign is the Archer, and he is al- tentious.
ways on the hunt. He likes nothing better than the chase. If practice made perfect, he’d be the world’s best lover.
As the song has it, “When he’s not near the girl he loves, However, he doesn’t consider love to be an experience
he loves the girl he’s near.” anything like the novelists tell it. He is passionate but not

He’s perfectly sincere when he tells you he loves you. intense: His great quality is enthusiasm, a sense of sheer
And he will be perfectly sincere when he tells someone enjoyment. What bothers him is that everyone else seems
else the same thing the next night. Whatever he believes at to take love so seriously. Why can’t everyone be like him—
the moment is true. relaxed, buoyant, undemanding?

The Sagittarian male has a deserved reputation as the Very often he isn’t interested in marriage or a long-
Don Juan of the zodiac. This is not because he has an insa- term relationship. He wants to tarry for the fun and laugh-
tiable sexual desire, but because love to him is an elusive ter, and move on. Happiness for this man is not a fixed
adventure, an unexplored path. He is the archetypal foot- goal, it’s a way of traveling. If you put enough happy days
loose and fancy-free lover searching for his feminine ideal. together, you end up with a happy life!
Along the way he manages to garner more than his share If he’s decided that you’re his kind of woman, don’t be
of female admirers who can’t help responding to his open, coy. He doesn’t regard a romantic fling as all that impor-
honest, cheerful, intelligent lovemaking. Sagittarius has a tant, and he won’t understand if you do. If casual amour
captivating sense of humor, and the woman he squires can isn’t your style, then maybe Sagittarius isn’t for you.
count on good times.

1 2 2 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
How to Attract Sagittarius

You won’t have trouble striking up a conversation. Sagit- rect, sometimes overly frank inquiries that Sagittarians will
tarians are interested in almost anything. When they’ve make. When they get to know you, they like you to share
talked themselves out on their favorite subjects, they’ll de- confidences with them or ask for their advice.
cide you’re a fascinating conversationalist! Sagittarians like outdoor dates: dancing under the

Ask about their work, their friends, books they have stars, open-air concerts, picnics at the beach, skiing or sail-
read, and their reactions to a current news event. If you ing outings. They usually avoid large parties or too-close
happen to like animals or outdoor sports, you are already quarters because they cannot bear to be hedged in or con-
halfway home with a Sagittarian. fined. Never infringe on their freedom. Never let your

There is a fine line between taking an interest in their emotional needs intrude on their private lives. And you’d
interests and prying. Don’t overstep that boundary. Sagit- be wise not to put too much stock in their promises. Their
tarians are very wary of anyone who might be trying to words are writ on water.
corner them. If talking about generalities gives you the Enjoy being with Sagittarius but don’t think you’ve
feeling that you’re sliding rapidly over ice, don’t worry. signed a lifelong contract, because Sagittarius doesn’t
Matters will improve on better acquaintance. You may dis- think so. And don’t look back with regret when it’s over.
cover, in fact, that your problem is trying to ignore the di- Sagittarius won’t.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 2 3



8
Sagittarius’s Amorous Combinations

SAGITTARIUS AND ARIES Both share a similar ap- room for a while, but when the fireworks fizzle the
proach to sex (they make the most of every opportu- bickering begins. Both have bright minds, but Sagittar-
nity). Add to this a mutual love of the outdoors and a ius is outspoken and bossy, while Gemini likes to poke
fondness for socializing, and you can see why they get verbal fun. Too rootless and discontent to settle down,
along. They’re also intellectually well suited: Both have they eventually both succumb to the siren call of other
a wide range of interests and love to talk about them. interests, other loves. But parting should be amicable.
Sagittarius is more philosophical about problems than
Aries, who becomes more personally involved. The one SAGITTARIUS AND CANCER Cancer’s sensuality and
question mark is their combustible temper. Arguments romantic imagination intrigues inquiring Sagittarius.
are heated but short-lived, and the making up will be But Sagittarius is both venturesome and cerebral while
fun. A perfect match. Cancer is cautious and emotional, and this pair will

never understand each other. Sagittarius can’t supply the
SAGITTARIUS AND TAURUS Taurus wants to run security and stability Cancer needs or endure Cancer’s

things, but Sagittarius won’t be controlled. Sagittarius moodiness and jealousy. Without even being aware of it,
needs change, variety, and adventure. That proves irri- blunt Sagittarius wounds sensitive Cancer at every turn.
tating to steady, disciplined, home-loving Taurus. Tau- When Sagittarius seeks outside stimulation away from
rus approves of tried-and-true ways of doing things, home, Cancer nags and whines and tries to hold on
but Sagittarius will try anything. Blunt Sagittarius will tighter. They’d be better as friends.
say what it thinks at the drop of a hat, and that brings
Taurus’s temper to a slow simmer. There are also SAGITTARIUS AND LEO There are exciting times
money problems, since Sagittarius gambles today while ahead for this ardent pair. Self-confident Leo holds the
Taurus hoards for tomorrow. A short future for this key to unlocking Sagittarius’s deeper passions, and
pair. their love life is an adventure. They also enjoy travel,

meeting new people, and each other’s company. Leo
SAGITTARIUS AND GEMINI They’re both restless, loves freedom as much as Sagittarius, so there won’t be

adventuresome, imaginative, and fun-loving. No other problems with jealousy or possessiveness. Sagittarius
opposite signs in the zodiac enjoy each other more has the lightness of touch necessary to cope with Leo’s
than these two. There’ll be shooting stars in the bed- monumental ego. A grand mating.

1 2 4 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



SAGITTARIUS AND VIRGO Shy, reticent Virgo can’t quickly, while Scorpio’s anger seethes until it erupts in
take the initiative, which makes Sagittarius think Virgo fury. A temperamental, difficult union.
is prudish. Both have intellectual leanings, so they may
end up having some interesting conversations in bed. SAGITTARIUS AND SAGITTARIUS Some astrologers
Elsewhere, Virgo looks for order and simplicity whereas believe the only fit mate for a Sagittarian is another
Sagittarius looks for excitement and new experiences. Sagittarian. They do seem perfectly suited: two inde-
Virgo wants a long-term commitment; Sagittarius has pendent, freedom-loving roamers. But this exciting,
to be free to roam. Sagittarius’s slapdash ways irritate chaotic, eventful relationship is too unpredictable to
meticulous Virgo. When Virgo carps and criticizes this suit either of them. They have a tendency to bring out
is sometimes a way of showing it cares, but Sagittarius the worst in each other. Each remains uncommitted
will never understand that. Little bodes well in this and has so many outside interests that this pair in-
affair. evitably drifts apart. But they’ll be good sports when

the fun is over.
SAGITTARIUS AND LIBRA Sagittarius is charmed by

Libra’s artistic, elegant, easygoing nature, and Libra is SAGITTARIUS AND CAPRICORN Capricorn’s de-
fascinated by Sagittarius’s lust for adventure. Libra is mands can’t be satisfied by Sagittarius’s flighty, light-
more romantic than Sagittarius; otherwise the sexual hearted approach to love. Both have high aspirations in
harmony is delightful. Libra casts a tolerant eye on life, but their approaches are totally different. Capri-
Sagittarius’s frolicking, and may even slow down Sagit- corn wants to climb to the top of the mountain; Sagit-
tarius’s pace, for Libra knows how to turn on sensual tarius wants to fly over the top. Sagittarius’s frank out-
charm. Libra loves home and luxury, and Sagittarius spoken nature is sure to rile Capricorn’s sensibilities.
prefers the outdoor life. But Librans are artists at work- Capricorn is restrictive, a loner, known for its dour
ing out such problems. outlook. Sagittarius is venturesome, sociable, and ex-

pansive. Capricorn is cautious with money and con-
SAGITTARIUS AND SCORPIO Scorpio tries to clip cerned with appearances—and Sagittarius is neither.

Sagittarius’s wings and keep it in a cage. Brooding, Both should look elsewhere.
pent-up Scorpio just can’t deal with open, ebullient,
outspoken Sagittarius. Sagittarius’s far-roaming interests SAGITTARIUS AND AQUARIUS These two share a
constantly make Scorpio jealous. Romantically, this is a great zest for living and a forward-looking viewpoint.
volatile combination. Sagittarius is playful about sex Neither will try to tie down the other. Both seek to ex-
and finds Scorpio’s intense, dominating passions too plore possibilities to the fullest, and they share an ide-
much to cope with. Soon Sagittarius’s inclination is to alism about love and life. Aquarius is innovative. Sagit-
fly. Sagittarius is also quick-tempered and cools tarius loves to experiment. There’ll be imaginative fun

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 2 5



in the bedroom, and they’ll probably find out things SAGITTARIUS AND PISCES Pisces is drawn to Sagit-
that would surprise even Masters and Johnson. They’ll tarius’s life force, and Sagittarius is attracted to Pisces’s
like each other too. True emotional intimacy may be spirituality. But Sagittarius needs a pal and Pisces
slower to develop—but prospects are wonderful for needs a dream lover—and neither can help the other.
the long haul. Sagittarius’s naturally buoyant spirits are anchored by

Pisces’s dependency and timidity. Highly emotional
Pisces is looking for more than an occasional sex part-
ner, and restless, freedom-loving Sagittarius is looking
for nothing but. Bedroom high jinks keep things going
for a while, but this affair slowly sinks into a quagmire.

1 2 6 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Capricorn
The Amorous Nature

8
You and Capricorn Woman ples of Capricorn females are Marlene Dietrich, Maggie

Smith, Ava Gardner, Faye Dunaway, Mary Tyler Moore—all
Though she may not show it, this woman cares a great intensely feminine, yet with a reserve of inner strength.

deal about love. Deep in her inner core, she is an extrava- If you have your mind set on winning a Capricorn
gant romantic, but she is very private, restrained, and beauty, you’d better prepare for a long siege. She is not
aloof. Some women are content to leave love to fate, but easy to win. She expects to be pursued, wooed, and put
Capricorn woman takes a hand in determining her own into the mood. No Don Juan can leap into her bed and
fate. She is discriminating in her choice of men, the least leap out again. If a man lets the issue of sex become a con-
likely of all the zodiacal signs to fall in love at first sight. test of wills, he is a good bet to lose. In a head-to-head
She has no time to waste in silly flirtation; love is a serious contest this woman could wear down a glacier.
matter to her. If a man doesn’t measure up, she wants him She sometimes becomes involved with men who are
out of her way. If a man does interest her, she will observe younger than she is. One reason is that she wants to domi-
him from an emotional distance before moving closer. She nate in the male-female relationship. On a date, she will
takes the time to get to know him and considers carefully often try to dictate the terms. She’ll pick the restaurant
the consequences of her involvement. Like all earth signs and the kind of entertainment and arrange for tickets. If
(Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn), she has a deep-rooted sensual- you begin living together, she will handle the division of
ity that flowers only when she feels safe and secure. household chores.

To Capricorn woman, happiness in love is crucial. She Capricorn women are not particularly lucky in love.
wants someone who will cherish and understand her, who Perhaps they demand too much, perhaps they’re too in-
will not rob her of her self-sufficiency or ask her to relin- volved with a career to inspire the kind of love and devo-
quish control of her life and goals. But she is a realist and tion they want, or perhaps the men they choose tend to be
knows how hard he is to find. too inexperienced or naive. Whatever the reason, it’s too

She will not put her neck into any man’s yoke. A Capri- bad because Capricorn women, in addition to their sexual-
corn woman may appear shy or submissive, but she is like a ity, have many practical virtues. They are loyal, depend-
rubber ball: You can push a dent into it, but the ball always able, excellent at handling money, canny about people.
springs back to its original shape. She is self-disciplined; They are very helpful to a mate and will stand by him
she has a clear mind, a commonsense approach. She is a when the going is toughest. All a Capricorn woman asks in
most womanly woman, a lady with “class.” Typical exam- return is to share in the spoils when the battle is won.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 2 7



Her passions run deep, and so does her impact. Long to the Capricorn man. But his sense of discipline—or,
after transitory affairs have run their courses, this smol- more specifically, his need to make the very best choice for
dering siren will hold her place in a man’s affections. the future, not just for the present—is stronger. He will
Cherish her, honor her, love her, and respect her. She’ll pay sacrifice romance and look for a woman who will be use-
you back in the richest coin of the realm—the kind of lov- ful to his ambitions. Generally, Capricorn men marry ei-
ing relationship that lasts. ther very early in life or in their later years. The ones who

marry later are usually happier. By the time a Capricorn
You and Capricorn Man man is successful he has become more relaxed, less wary
Women are intrigued by his frank, earthy approach. To of love; it is no longer a burden to his climb up the ladder.

him, physical desire is a necessary part of love. He doesn’t Few women have reason to complain about a Capricorn
see how one can exist without the other. lover. His charged passions are never far from the ignition

However, love relationships are not easy for him emo- point. He may not be the most imaginative or poetic partner,
tionally. There is always a certain loner quality about him. but he is lusty and skillful. His interest in the physical side of
He has difficulty placing his trust in another human be- love never wanes. The older Capricorn male gets, the more
ing. To some extent he cuts himself off from spontaneous attractive he becomes, and the more potent. When other
feeling. In his career Capricorn man has complete respon- men are resigned to their rocking chairs, Capricorn will still
sibility for decisions, and in relationships he finds it hard be inviting you into his bedroom.
to share responsibility. He prefers a comfortable setting. Others may like to

Like his female counterpart, he has a very cool exterior. make love on a bare floor or standing in a closet. Capri-
He appears totally self-assured, but he needs a woman to corn likes a nice, spacious bed, dim lights, soft music, and,
show how much she likes and admires him. Because he is if possible, a chilled bottle of champagne close at hand.
private, even secretive, he doesn’t always let this need be There is a sensual, poetic side to Capricorn, although it
known—but it is there. Give his ego the encouragement it may take a while to reveal itself. This man will probably
needs and he will tie himself to your strings for as long as not send you flowers or love letters, but on your twenty-
you want him. He is a faithful lover who doesn’t feel or fifth wedding anniversary he may charter a plane to whisk
even understand the need to stray. the two of you to Paris so you can spend the evening

Contrary to popular opinion, there is a romantic streak dancing on the floodlit banks of the Seine.

1 2 8 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
How to Attract Capricorn

If Capricorns appear aloof at first, it’s because they are cal- to state an opinion, listen as if you were hearing the Get-
culating the risks of a new friendship. tysburg Address for the first time. And don’t come up with

They are quite willing to be your audience, so don’t be radical or far-out opinions. They shun unconventionality.
afraid to take the initiative in conversation. A sure way to You can’t go wrong getting a Capricorn something
capture Capricorns’ interest is to be amusing, for they are practical as a gift. Be sure it is of the best quality, not
basically melancholy types who need an emotional lift. something gaudy or showy. Persons born under this sign

They often try to mask their feelings because they are appreciate luxury, but are far too aware of the value of a
afraid of exposing too much of themselves. Never mind dollar to respect anyone who splurges merely to make an
that their fears are unfounded; this is how they feel. Even impression. Books are always a good item, especially biog-
at their most open, Capricorns will be pretty hard to raphies, self-help books, and books dealing with invest-
fathom. ments.

Capricorns are interested in art, music, and theater and Tip: Always be on time. Time is money—and you
are drawn to people who are intellectually stimulating. know how Capricorns feel about that.
They prefer to talk of serious subjects. When they decide

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 2 9



8
Capricorn’s Amorous Combinations

CAPRICORN AND ARIES They’ll get along as lovers, travagant, and scatterbrained. Capricorn prizes order
but even in bed there’ll be arguments about money, and control, and approaches life in a practical, deter-
friends, socializing, and who’s boss. A major difference mined manner. Gemini is disorganized, high-strung,
is that Capricorn won’t make a move unless sure of and erratic. Also, Gemini’s verbal quickness has a way
winning, whereas Aries is completely headstrong and of making Capricorn secretly feel inadequate. Neither
impulsive. Arguments never fade away, for both are is particularly sentimental, so whatever flamelets ignite
strong-willed and aggressive and need to dominate. at the beginning will quickly cool.
Jealousy also raises its head as Aries’s lively passions
stray toward more fun-loving company. Temperamen- CAPRICORN AND CANCER These two are sexually at-
tally and emotionally, this mating is better suited to an tracted to each other, but need all the harmony they find
arena than to hearth and home. in the bedroom to offset the discordance they create

everywhere else. Sensitive Cancer will resent Capricorn’s
CAPRICORN AND TAURUS Taurus admires Capri- domineering manner. Capricorn isn’t willing to put up

corn’s strength of purpose, and Capricorn is delighted with Cancer’s endless emotional demands. Cancer’s need
with Taurus’s affectionate stability. Taurus can get for warmth will be frustrated by Capricorn’s aloof cool-
through to aloof, cautious Capricorn and give the en- ness. Both fear rejection, but Cancer’s tendency is to
couragement and responsiveness needed. Both have withdraw and Capricorn’s is to become tyrannical. These
earthy, passionate natures, and sensual Taurus can tap two are zodiac opposites with all that implies.
the deep well of romanticism that lies under Capri-
corn’s reserve. Capricorn is loyal and Taurus is devoted, CAPRICORN AND LEO Ordered, organized Capricorn
so jealousy is not a problem between these two. In ad- neither understands nor approves of Leo’s exuberant im-
dition, both value money and security and are home- pulsiveness. Capricorn cannot stand Leo’s habit of leap-
lovers. One union, strong and indivisible. ing first and looking afterward. Extroverted Leo will be

impatient with Capricorn’s secretive tendencies. Capri-
CAPRICORN AND GEMINI Capricorn will have a corn is too reserved to give Leo the adoration it needs,

hard time holding the reins on excitable, flirtatious, and proud Leo will not give in to Capricorn’s domineer-
wayward Gemini. All of Capricorn’s patience is needed ing ways. Spendthrift Leo adores luxury, while Capricorn
to deal with a partner it considers to be capricious, ex- puts financial security above all. Also, they both want to

1 3 0 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



rule in the bedroom. This unpromising couple will find native shrewdness. Both prize discipline and accomplish-
their way to a quick ending. ment. Each is strong-willed, and sometimes Scorpio’s

renowned temper comes up against Capricorn’s stub-
CAPRICORN AND VIRGO Virgo’s neat orderly mind bornness. Their battles will be royal, but so will their

meshes well with Capricorn’s self-discipline and capac- makings-up.
ity for hard work. Both take pride in their home, enjoy
having a few close friends rather than many acquain- CAPRICORN AND SAGITTARIUS Capricorn is
tances, and admire each other’s intellectual abilities. cheered by optimistic Sagittarius, and Sagittarius is in-
There’s no reason this duo shouldn’t click—except in trigued by Capricorn’s depth and self-containment. All
the bedroom, where Virgo’s reticence needs a stronger too soon, though, Capricorn becomes annoyed by
push than reserved Capricorn likes to give. Neither Sagittarius’s fickle attitude and total need for freedom
finds it easy to be spontaneously affectionate. However, without strings. Capricorn senses that it cannot count
this is the only minus entry on a balance sheet full of on Sagittarius’s loyalty through thick and thin, and is
pluses. frustrated by Sagittarius’s nonchalance in love. Also,

Sagittarius is impetuous and has free-and-easy spend-
CAPRICORN AND LIBRA Capricorn is intrigued by ing habits, while Capricorn is serious-minded and a

magnetic Libra, and Libra is charmed by Capricorn’s stay-at-home. The ties that bind are soon cut.
slowly revealed passions. But over the long term Libra
needs more excitement, romance, and beauty than CAPRICORN AND CAPRICORN Capricorns approve
Capricorn can provide. Capricorn is not oriented to- of people like themselves, so with these two there’s no
ward social and artistic pursuits, which are Libra’s fa- lack of mutual respect and regard. Both are cautious,
vorite activities. Capricorn prizes discipline and re- reserved personalities who work hard and love to save
sponsibility, and finds Libra altogether too frivolous, money. But even compatibility can sometimes be dull.
vain, and self-centered. Libra turns restive and starts to They’re well matched sexually, but in other areas they
look elsewhere. Throw in some Capricorn jealousy to encourage each other’s tendencies to be gloomy and
keep the cauldron bubbling. A recipe for disaster. pessimistic. Neither one can relax or let down its hair.

As partners they’re okay, but not too much fun. Love
CAPRICORN AND SCORPIO Scorpio’s powerful sen- travels an almost imperceptibly downhill road.

suality kindles Capricorn’s slumbering passions. Scor-
pio is the more imaginative lover, but Capricorn’s CAPRICORN AND AQUARIUS Capricorn finds
stamina is a delightful match. Scorpio’s possessiveness Aquarius too unpredictable, and Aquarius’s impersonal
spells security to Capricorn. These two work well as a attitude makes Capricorn uneasy. Capricorn’s conven-
team—Capricorn is highly organized and Scorpio has tional approach quickly irritates adventurous Aquarius.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 3 1



Aquarius believes in self-expression; Capricorn believes CAPRICORN AND PISCES Capricorn provides ballast
in self-discipline. Aquarius is somewhat a rover, while for Pisces’s drifting dreaminess and supplies the stability
Capricorn prefers home and hearth. Freedom-loving that Pisces needs and admires. And there’s nothing
Aquarius won’t stay bound for long to earnest, staid Capricorn likes better than being admired. Capricorn
Capricorn. However, they should like each other, and is the boudoir captain, but Pisces is a willing crew.
love can turn into friendship. Pisces’s taste for the bizarre may even influence Capri-

corn’s conventional passions. Pisces’s generous affec-
tions and Capricorn’s strong sense of loyalty combine
to make each feel safe and protected. These very differ-
ent people meet each other’s needs.

1 3 2 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Aquarius
The Amorous Nature

8
You and Aquarius Woman She expects to be courted, and a man should not press

matters to a conclusion until he knows more about her
This charming, funny, brainy, tantalizing woman than her telephone number. Passion is not important to

doesn’t have to play games to fascinate a man. She plays her; communication is. Aquarius sees a man as an individ-
herself. There is a special magnetism to Aquarius that ual first and a bed partner second.
some astrol-ogers have called distant glamour. Like all the In marriage or a serious relationship she often finds it
air signs (Gemini, Libra, Aquarius), she lives in a world of hard to give of herself. She is an unconventional person
ideas and possesses a certain detached quality. Curiously, who lives most intensely in her mind. She’s too concerned
this attracts men who want to stir her emotions. with her projects, hobbies, interests, and friends, so her

She is not aloof, cold, or removed from feeling, but love tends to be diffuse. She has been accused of loving
warm, vibrant, friendly, and outgoing, concerned with mankind rather than one particular man.
others. She’s a woman with a strong romantic streak. Ro- Once her passions are aroused and directed toward a
mance for Aquarius is an idea, an ideal, not a sweeping specific man, however, she is loyal and devoted. When
passion. In truth, she is wary of emotion, for it can be Aquarius makes a promise she stands by her word. After
troublesome and tiresome. She is above that; she is able to all, that is what honor and idealism are about, and those
deal rationally with life. are hallmarks of this sign.

Aquarius female is subject to no man’s whim and fol- Some say Aquarian woman is the perfect mate because
lows no dictates but her own. She was a liberated woman she is easy to deal with—tolerant, slow to take offense, never
before anyone ever heard of the women’s movement. This jealous or unreasonable, never overemotional or clinging.
supremely independent woman cares little what the rest of All she asks is for a man to respect her privacy and not
the world thinks. She is definitely unpredictable. Part of stand in the way of her far-reaching interests.
her attitude is reflected in her imaginative approach to sex. The quickest way to lose her is to try to hold her fast.
Her boudoir behavior is usually innovative and creative; What intrigues her is the hill beyond the unexplored hori-
she seeks novelty and diversion more than heavy-breathing zon. She is never content to stay where she is. There’s too
passion. much out there waiting to be discovered. A man has to

However unconventional her attitudes may be, and share her love of a challenge or he will soon be left behind.
however flirtatious she may seem, a man will have to con- She will move on without a backward glance, a grand ship
vince her that she’s not simply his target for tonight. He sailing on without an inkling of the tragedy in her wake.
cannot make the mistake of treating her as a sex object.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 3 3



You and Aquarius Man The Aquarius man does not expect any woman to be
easily won. His patience is proverbial and a woman may

His first contact with a woman has to be made finally make the proposition herself. Then, surprisingly,
through the mind. Before he can become physically stimu- she’ll discover how intensely and passionately her Aquar-
lated, he must be intellectually stimulated. For Aquarius ius lover has wanted her. When a love affair is under way
the meeting of minds always precedes the meeting of bod- he makes up for lost time. A woman will find that making
ies. He wants to make love to somebody, not just any body. love with him is like living in the midst of a carnival—

Give him half a chance and he’ll fall in love. He thinks there’s always a new exciting ride.
that that is a natural—and delightful—condition. But Aquarius is the sign of truth, and this man doesn’t lie
falling in love and loving mean two different things to this or misrepresent himself. This is, of course, a winning
man, and the latter is likely to bring out his inner conflicts. quality—though in Aquarius’s case it sometimes has unex-
One reason is that Aquarius tends to repress emotion. His pected consequences. One young woman I know spotted
is a cerebral sign, and he’s somewhat unnerved and embar- this quality in her Aquarius lover. She compelled him at
rassed by emotion. Also, love represents a demand on him, various times throughout the day to tell her how he felt
and he has a fierce need for independence. In addition, lov- about her at that exact moment: “To tell you the truth,
ing means making room for another person, and in com- right now I’m not as much in love with you as I was this
mon with the other fixed signs (Taurus, Leo, and Scorpio), morning.”
Aquarius does not adapt easily to others. Others have to In a love affair Aquarius is generous and tolerant, the
adapt to him. kind who tries never to encroach on your rights or to

He is very attractive to women, but he may not linger give orders. A love relationship with him has many of
long in a liaison. To him, love passes like a train in the night the elements of friendship—intellectual interests and
and there is always another train coming along the track. social compatibility. He won’t be selfish or domineering
Yet Aquarius isn’t a Don Juan. He is remarkably true to his either. He may be less than fiery, but he is a surprising,
women—in his fashion. He doesn’t try to keep many stimulating, broad-minded, and inventive lover.
women on his string at one time. Rather, he believes in con- Don’t fence him in. Once this man is in love with you
secutive monogamy. Even if he marries, he doesn’t consider he will stay pretty much in his pasture. But he must feel
the bond to be forged in steel. Aquarius men are the most the escape routes are open.
often married in the zodiac.

1 3 4 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
How to Attract Aquarius

These highly social creatures make friends easily. They are their interests, at least try not to be jealous of the fact that
amusing, interesting conversationalists who nonetheless Aquarians have so many. They can’t help it; it’s in their
prefer to discuss what is significant or important. Don’t be stars.
surprised if they don’t reach any conclusions, though. Aquarians are not steak-and-potatoes people; they pre-
When you’re dealing with eternal verities, it’s hard to come fer to try the little place that features Chinois cuisine—a
to the point. combination of Chinese and continental cooking. Aquari-

Aquarians are usually courteous but elusive. There is ans are always delighted with the different.
no way to breach this demeanor, especially not with a di- Give them time to know you, trust you, and depend on
rect attack. When faced with a head-on approach, Aquari- you. Aquarians may take advice but are too smart to be
ans tend to retreat. fooled. They won’t keep taking bad advice; they’ll just

It is easy to draw out their compassionate qualities. avoid the adviser.
They are humanitarians whose interests stretch far beyond Important: Never nag Aquarians about a mistake. They
the horizon. They see the big picture, not its little flaws. will acknowledge one readily enough, but then forget it. A

They are interested in books, art, or scientific matters. mistake seems genuinely unimportant to them, and if you
Most Aquarians have an interest in science. They are also keep harping on it they’ll just think you are strange.
fascinated by hobbies and gadgets. If you can’t share all

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 3 5



8
Aquarius’s Amorous Combinations

AQUARIUS AND ARIES They’ll enjoy plenty of fun Drang. They love to socialize, they have a wide range of
and frolicking. Aquarius’s imaginativeness meshes well outside activities, and neither is particularly jealous or
with Aries’s forcefulness. Sexually, Aries’s passion in- proprietary. They’ll be fine bedmates and fascinating
spires Aquarius’s originality. They won’t try to tie each friends.
other down, for each understands the other’s need for
freedom, adventure, and outside interests. Neither likes AQUARIUS AND CANCER Aquarius bristles at Can-
to be dominated, however, and Aries must take the cer’s possessiveness and can’t understand why Cancer
lead. If this problem can be worked out satisfactorily, won’t hang loose. Aquarius is careless and free with af-
the track is clear ahead as far as anyone can see. fection, making sensitive Cancer feel neglected and re-

jected. Aquarius hates Cancer’s clinging restrictiveness
AQUARIUS AND TAURUS Aquarius’s careless attitude and complaining, which stem from Cancer’s constant

toward love will baffle and finally enrage highly pas- need for proofs of love. Cancer wants a safe, secure
sionate Taurus, who doesn’t want someone just to play home, but Aquarius needs a very flexible living
with. Taurus’s possessiveness and jealousy make Aquar- arrangement. Cancer wants Aquarius to stay, but soon
ius anxious to pack a suitcase and go. Aquarius loves to Aquarius is inclined to wander away.
wander anyway, while Taurus loves home. These two are
stubborn in very different ways: Aquarius refuses to be AQUARIUS AND LEO Leo is delighted by Aquarius’s
conventional, while Taurus rigidly adheres to the values sexual inventiveness, and Aquarius is drawn to Leo’s
of family and security. Aquarius is interested in humane fire and robust zest for living. These two opposites in
concerns; Taurus is single-minded about itself and its the zodiac start off on a high note, but then the notes
possessions. And so on and on and on. go sour. Basically, Leo is physical and Aquarius is men-

tal. Leo can’t get the cooperation or the admiration it
AQUARIUS AND GEMINI Gemini is willing to go along requires, and Aquarius resents Leo’s attempt to rule.

with Aquarius’s taste for experiment. In addition, Aquar- They have different views of independence: to Aquarius
ius calms down Gemini’s flightiness and is a stabilizing it means freedom to explore new horizons; to Leo it
influence. They enjoy each other’s quick, intelligent means pursuing a glamorous, extravagant lifestyle.
minds and will have fascinating conversations about Aquarius is interested in the world; Leo is strictly inter-
people, ideas, and places. Both desire harmony and com- ested in Leo.
panionship with not a lot of emotional Sturm und

1 3 6 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



AQUARIUS AND VIRGO Both are mental signs rather AQUARIUS AND SAGITTARIUS These two are so in-
than emotional, but Virgo looks on the darker side of novative about lovemaking that they ought to charge
life while Aquarius is imaginative and optimistic. admission. In addition, they inspire each other intellec-
Aquarius needs activity, social events, a wide circle of tually, for Aquarius has far-out, inventive ideas and
acquaintances. Virgo enjoys a quiet existence with a Sagittarius is optimistic and visionary. Aquarius can be
few close friends. Their goals are very different: Aquar- dogmatic in its libertarian views, but that doesn’t
ius wants to be as brilliant as possible; Virgo wants to bother live-and-let-live Sagittarius. Both are highly so-
be as efficient as possible. They’re compatible intellec- cial, fun-loving creatures who like people, seeing new
tually but won’t celebrate many anniversaries. places, and whatever is unpredictable. The best part is

that neither one is jealous when the other isn’t home.
AQUARIUS AND LIBRA Warm, sensual Libra joins with

enthusiasm in Aquarius’s erotic fun and games. Also, AQUARIUS AND CAPRICORN Both signs have a
diplomatic Libra knows just how to get around Aquar- strong sense of self, but Aquarius wants to be free and
ius’s quirky stubborn streak. They like the way each Capricorn wants to dominate. Aquarius has a great
other’s minds work and share interests in music, theater, many opinions about everything and welcomes neither
and the arts. Both love parties and other people and advice nor orders from rigid Capricorn. Aquarius is con-
have numerous projects in common. There won’t be ar- tinually on the go and likes to spend money. Capricorn
guments about who leads and who follows because they considers that frivolous and tries to impose strict con-
are both great egalitarians. This should be a lovely affair, trols. Capricorn is cautious, solid, and straightforward,
but for the long term someone will have to settle down. and doesn’t understand Aquarius’s adventurous ideas.

A brief rapport at best before boredom sets in and
AQUARIUS AND SCORPIO Fueled by Scorpio’s damps the fire.

volatility and Aquarius’s imaginativeness, sex is quite
out of the ordinary. But Aquarius is turned off by Scor- AQUARIUS AND AQUARIUS They admire and like
pio’s powerful and jealous passions, and Scorpio is up- each other, and especially enjoy each other’s sense of
set by Aquarius’s unpredictable moods. Aquarius is humor. Inventive, progressive, attracted to the new and
looking for a companion in adventure, whereas Scor- unusual, they are sexually suited and share wide-ranging
pio wants a committed consort. Aquarius is aloof, un- interests. Each is involved in all kinds of projects and
emotional, and restless; Scorpio is demanding, critical, friendships. With so many outside activities going, they
and intensely possessive. Aquarius starts looking for are likely to be apart as much as they are together and
happiness outside the home and might as well keep that’s fine with them. They haven’t a thing to quarrel
right on traveling. about since they agree on everything: Both of them are

much more rational than emotional. Their love won’t
be as deep as a well, but it will draw water.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 3 7



AQUARIUS AND PISCES Aquarius is intrigued by ments of love. Dependent, indecisive Pisces needs
Pisces’s romantic charm, and Pisces is drawn to Aquar- someone strong to take control. Aquarius shuns any
ius’s visionary ideals. Sensual, imaginative Pisces will kind of emotional demands. When Aquarius feels
go along with anything Aquarius wants, and they hemmed in by that all-enveloping Piscean web, it will
achieve an unusual intimacy. However, things begin to struggle free and go its own way.
go downhill as Pisces insists on more and more testa-

1 3 8 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Pisces
The Amorous Nature

8
You and Pisces Woman To her love is the ballast, the center from which all else

radiates. When she is happy in love, everything else in life
Pisces woman is a fascinating mixture of earthly pas- seems marvelous. When she is miserable over a love affair,

sion and unworldly fantasies. It’s no wonder that men are nothing else matters. Her greatest need is to lose herself in
captivated by her at first glance and haunted by her forever someone else, to unite in an almost mystical communion.
after. They may try to recall what it is about her that’s so She wants to enter into the psyche of her lover.
enchanting, but they can’t plumb the depths of her entic- More than any other woman in the zodiac, Pisces will
ing allure. change herself to fit the image that her partner wants.

Her knack for getting around men is uncanny. She has Hers is a mutable sign and she is completely adaptable. Yet
an instinctive ability to make men feel masculine. Her gen- this woman of a thousand faces remains uniquely herself:
tleness and softness and innocence bring out their need to elusive, untouchable, mysterious. She has a fascination that
be strong and protective. no one quite understands.

Pisces lady doesn’t pick her mate on the whim of the The Piscean woman’s charms can be a little too other-
moment. Like all water signs (Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces), she worldly. Daydreams are her truest reality. One of the many
has a mysterious way of uncovering the secrets that lie be- things men find bewitching about her is that she can give
neath a person’s social mask, and her psychic vision sees full expression to her sexual fantasies. Pisces woman is ac-
through to real motives. Sensitive to the slightest nuance complished at all varieties of erotic play and can employ
in what someone says or how someone behaves, she’ll the skills of a courtesan to heighten the delight of her lover.
quickly beat her way to the exit if what she sees and hears Sometimes her abundantly affectionate nature goes
isn’t quite right. over the brink into dependency. But her psychic intuition

The lovers that Piscean woman chooses tend to fall lets her know when she’s reached the limits of a man’s pa-
into two extremes. Because she needs to be needed, she tience. She can, if she wishes, take steps to win back a
finds herself attracted to emotionally handicapped men man’s favor. Sometimes though, she becomes touchy and
whom she can mother and envelop with compassionate oversensitive at another’s lack of understanding. What she
care. She also falls in love with the opposite kind of man— needs most is patience and sympathy. She can’t stand the
one who is strong, decisive, with a great sense of self, a least hint of rejection. When she’s treated with care and af-
man who will protect and cherish her, and give her the fection, however, the sensual, ultrafeminine side of her na-
support and firm direction that she needs. ture comes shining through. She has the ability to blend a

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 3 9



grand romance, an intense sexual bonding, and profound prefers clandestine meetings and secret affairs with high
spiritual communion all within the same relationship. risk quotients. Married women are his natural prey. Pisces

The secret of pleasing this ethereal, unworldly, quick- man falls in love easily, but his is the sign of self-undoing,
silvery, sensitive woman is never to come up short on ro- and he has an instinct for choosing the wrong woman. His
mance. Romance is the breath of life to her. love life often tends to be chaotic and turbulent, and over

his lifetime he may lose his heart many times to the wrong
You and Pisces Man partner. Indeed, it’s been said that in every woman’s past
Pisces man has rare charisma. The secret of his ex- there is a Pisces man.

traordinary appeal to women is a deep and sensitive ap- He is intensely emotional about making love because
preciation for their inner qualities. He always sees a he considers it not a merely physical act but the culmina-
woman at her best. Pisces male is a real charmer, the eter- tion of a romantic yearning. His bedroom behavior, like
nal romantic. that of female Pisces, tends toward the offbeat. But he is

All the water signs have the quality of emotional imag- tender and loving and considerate, and won’t insist on
ination. Cancer uses it to create a protective environment; having his way. He is a marvelously sensuous, understand-
Scorpio seeks to delve into the secrets of the human psy- ing, innovative lover.
che. Pisces tries to live in a world of dreams and romance. As a husband, he probably won’t be a good provider.
He lives for the whim of the moment, and while the mo- His career problem is that he looks for the easy way—not
ment lasts he can make it seem enchanted, everything a realizing there is no easy way. But he won’t neglect you
woman ever dreamed of, champagne and caviar, moon- and is generously willing to share what he has. This man is
light and poetry and passion. Unfortunately, when the sun a giver in an emotional sense. He will do almost anything
comes up the words don’t quite rhyme and the cham- for someone he cares for. Once he commits himself to a
pagne is flat. In the cold light of day you may reflect on woman, he will give unselfishly of his time, energy, sympa-
what a fool you were to have thought it could be other- thy, and concern.
wise. If you’re looking for an attentive, romantic lover, a

Basically, he would like to find happiness with one kind and compassionate man to fulfill your spiritual needs
woman, but the vagaries of his character and the constant as well as your physical ones, Pisces male is for you. He
appeal to him of change make that unlikely. He is unable may be a dreamer, but he can make the right woman’s
to steer a steady course between his conflicting desires. He dreams come true.

1 4 0 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
How to Attract Pisces

You can always interest them in conversation about the pressed by your ability to smile your troubles away.
world of entertainment, art, books, poetry, and dramatics. Ask them about a subject they know well. (Tip: Pis-
Another sure way to get their attention is to discuss any ceans are artistic, or at least have a real appreciation for
topic touching on the occult, mysticism, spiritualism, and the arts, so you can hardly go wrong moving in that direc-
the supernatural, particularly anything involving reincar- tion.) Pisces will soon open up. In fact, your problem may
nation. Pisceans who don’t actually believe in it (there be getting back in control of the conversation. Pisceans
aren’t many) are fascinated by discussions about it. love to expound and explain and expatiate.

Tell them your problems. They’re great listeners and Always greet them with a compliment about their ap-
their sympathy is mostly genuine. But avoid giving the ap- pearance or social presence, or remember to repeat a flat-
pearance of being overwhelmed by your problems. While tering comment someone else made about them. Pisces
Pisceans have an unusual compassion for losers, they pre- soaks up flattery like the Sahara soaks up water.
fer people who are strong and supportive, with definite Above all, be sentimental. Remember each birthday
goals and a positive approach to life. and anniversary. Pisceans are grateful and they don’t 

A good compromise tactic is to discuss your difficul- forget kindness or thoughtfulness. You’ll be richly 
ties humorously. Pisceans like to laugh and will be im- rewarded.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 4 1



8
Pisces’s Amorous Combinations

PISCES AND ARIES Sensual Pisces is drawn to Aries’s Gemini’s fickleness and thoughtlessness. Gemini can’t
dynamic passions, and Pisces’s desire to shower affec- stand Pisces’s emotionalism and dreaminess. Insecure
tion on a lover will flatter Aries. Pisces’s imagination Pisces is possessive and clinging, while Gemini wants to
and mysterious allure bring out a new sensitivity and have fun and move on. In different ways, each is as
romanticism in this aggressive lover. Aries will handle shifting and changeable as the other. Pisces lacks direc-
decisions and fight battles for Pisces, which is just what tion, while Gemini goes off in too many directions.
Pisces is looking for. Headstrong Aries will dominate, Both need more dominant partners.
but that doesn’t necessarily displease Pisces, who likes
to have someone to lean on. What may trouble Pisces PISCES AND CANCER Pisces enjoys Cancer’s sexual
more is Aries’s tendency to criticize. Tact is needed to demands, for Cancer is equally sensual. This romantic
cement this otherwise sexy partnership. duo finds passion, sensitivity, and tenderness in each

other. Pisces doesn’t mind if Cancer makes most of the
PISCES AND TAURUS Taurus is a strong, authoritative decisions; Cancer’s concern for security and excellent

figure who can provide security and stability for vacil- money sense provide a very practical stability. These
lating Pisces. Also, Taurus’s artistic bent enhances two are sentimental types who like to stick close to
Pisces’s creative imagination. Pisces will accentuate home. Loyal Cancer devotes itself exclusively to inse-
Taurus’s taste for comfort, and together they’ll furnish cure Pisces, and, in turn, Pisces idolizes Cancer. A very
a luxurious setting for love. Both are highly passionate compatible pair.
and sensual, although Pisces is volatile and more emo-
tional than Taurus. While Taurus’s possessiveness PISCES AND LEO Pisces’s tendency to think rather than
makes Pisces feel secure, Taurus is a bit too practical act annoys Leo, who considers Pisces wishy-washy. These
and down-to-earth to satisfy Pisces’s romantic nature. two are very unalike: Pisces is shy, introverted, and vul-
If they work out this problem, all goes well. nerable, while Leo is arrogant, brash, and domineering.

Both behave emotionally, but Leo is given to tempera-
PISCES AND GEMINI Pisces is drawn by Gemini’s wit mental outbursts while Pisces withdraws into private fan-

and communicativeness, and Gemini is fascinated by tasy. Leo won’t tolerate Pisces’s sensitivity and dreami-
Pisces’s mystery. But this combination is as unstable as ness. Highly social Leo needs lots of feedback, while
nitroglycerin—and likely to blow up. Pisces can’t stand Pisces demands exclusivity. Leo likes to roam; Pisces

1 4 2 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



doesn’t. This combination is like fire and water—they ousy and possessiveness won’t bother Pisces—in fact, it
won’t mix. makes Pisces feel loved. Pisces’s dependency is just

what Scorpio is looking for. These two share a special
PISCES AND VIRGO Pisces’s affectionate nature in- communion, much of it on a sensual, unspoken level.

trigues Virgo at first, but these two personalities are Both have intense feelings and are loyal, intuitive, and
just too opposite for any rapport. Virgo, being a mental interested in the mystical and the unusual. An ideal
sign, distrusts emotions, whereas Pisces runs its life mating.
emotionally rather than intellectually. Reserved, fault-
finding Virgo won’t satisfy sexually, and when Virgo’s PISCES AND SAGITTARIUS These two ignite in the
sexual rebuffs start, this awakens all the Piscean insecu- bedroom, but the compatibility ends there. Pisces is an
rities. Virgo also can’t give Pisces the romance or ego- imaginative dreamer, not a doer, whereas Sagittarius
bolstering Pisces needs, and Pisces proves to be too un- thrives on constant activity. Independent Sagittarius is
stable for exacting Virgo. Virgo will resent Pisces’s too much of a rover to satisfy Pisces’s need for atten-
dependency. This soon becomes a toboggan to tion and devotion. Sagittarius’s sharp tongue will hurt
nowhere. Pisces’s romantic sensibilities. Pisces wants to get close

but is constantly confused and rebuffed by Sagittarius’s
PISCES AND LIBRA These affectionate, creative, artis- struggle to free itself of the heavy emotional demands.

tic people take to each other immediately. But Pisces is Pisces is dependent and home-loving, but restless, ad-
looking for emotional support and won’t find that with venturous Sagittarius won’t stay home long.
Libra. Libra wants romance and harmony, but flees
from the responsibility of any kind of demands or en- PISCES AND CAPRICORN These two very different
tanglements. They both like luxury and a lovely home, people please each other. Capricorn’s strong, dominant
but Pisces is too lazy about making money and Libra is personality is just what Pisces needs. Pisces feels secure
too extravagant about spending it. Libra has numerous with practical, determined Capricorn, who can take
outside interests and feels stifled by Pisces. Physical charge and make decisions. In turn, Pisces brings a
rapport isn’t enough for the long term. But as long as it breath of romance and idealism to Capricorn’s staid ap-
lasts, this is likely to be fun. proach to life, and Pisces’s lavishness with praise and af-

fection delights Capricorn. Capricorn does not easily
PISCES AND SCORPIO Pisces finds its match here— verbalize its deep feelings, but Pisces intuitively recog-

and then some. Scorpio will provide a deep, exciting nizes Capricorn’s loyalty and passion. Sex is fine, and
sexual union for Pisces, and gives Pisces valuable emo- their contrasting temperaments neatly complement each
tional support, strength and leadership. Scorpio’s jeal- other.

Th e  S u n  S i g n s  i n  L ove • 1 4 3



PISCES AND AQUARIUS Pisces’s romantic eroticism PISCES AND PISCES If all life’s problems could be re-
inspires Aquarius to experiment in new areas. Sexually, solved in the bedroom they’d be happy, but both need
this might be fun since they are both venturesome in what the other does not have. Each is weak-willed and
entirely different ways. But Aquarius is detached, inter- dependent and drains the other emotionally. Both have
ested in ideas and the world at large, while Pisces is in- a tendency to sink into a mire of self-pity and negativ-
terested in sensual fulfillment. Eventually, outgoing, so- ity, and they accentuate each other’s confusion, self-in-
cial-minded Aquarius will start looking around, and dulgence, and muddled thinking. They find it hard to
Pisces can’t endure that. Independent Aquarius needs cope with practical realities, and there’s no strong part-
freedom and after a while resents Pisces’s struggle to ner around to push either one in the right direction.
keep Aquarius caged at home. This sexy affair has no place to go.

1 4 4 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
3

T H E  D E C A N A T E S  A N D
C U S P S O F S U N  S I G N S

rom time to time when looking through astrology books or magazines you may have run across 

Fthe terms decanate and cusp, but you probably don’t have a clear idea of what these words mean.
These are astrological terms that subdivide your Sun sign. The subdivisions further define and empha-

size certain qualities and character traits pertaining to your Sun sign.
Everyone is born within a particular decanate of a sign, and some people are also born on the cusp. In this

chapter I hope to make clear the meaning of decanates and cusps in your life.

8
What Is a Decanate?

Each astrological sign is divided into three parts, and each part is called a decanate or a decan (the terms are used
interchangeably).

The word comes from the Greek word dekanoi, meaning “ten days apart.” The Greeks took their word from
the Egyptians, who divided their year into 360* days. The Egyptian year had twelve months of thirty days each,
and each month was further divided into three sections of ten days each. It was these ten-day sections the
Greeks called dekanoi.

Astrology still divides the zodiac into decanates. There are twelve signs in the zodiac, and each sign is di-
vided into three decanates. You might picture each decanate as a room. You were born in a certain sign, for ex-
ample, Gemini, that consists of three rooms (decanates). Which room of Gemini were you born in?

The zodiac is a 360-degree circle. Each decanate is ten degrees of that circle, or about ten days long, since the

*The Egyptians soon found out that a 360-day year was inaccurate, and so added on five extra days. These were feast days and holidays and not
counted as real days.

1 4 5



Sun moves through the zodiac at approximately the rate of one degree per day. (This is not exact because not all
of our months contain thirty days.)

The decanate of a sign does not change the basic characteristics of that sign, but it does refine and individu-
alize the sign’s general characteristics. For example, if you were born in the second decanate of Gemini, that
does not change the fact that you are Geminian. It does indicate that you have somewhat different and special
characteristics from those Geminians born in the first decanate or the third decanate.

Each decanate has a constellation in the heavens that represents it. These constellations have special mystical
meanings that also add to the unique quality of your decanate.

Finally, each decanate has a specific planetary ruler, sometimes called a subruler because it does not usurp
the overall rulership of the sign. The subruler can only enhance, or add to, the distinct characteristics of that de-
canate. For example, the entire sign of Gemini is ruled by Mercury, but the second decanate of Gemini is sub-
ruled by Venus. The influence of Venus, the subruler, combines with the overall authority of Mercury to make
the second decanate of Gemini unlike any other in the zodiac. In the following guide, I have outlined the subtle
differences and special characteristics of your own unique decanate.

1 4 6 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



The Decanates of Aries
FIRST DECANATE: MARCH 21 an ardent and excitable love nature, and your sexual energy is
THROUGH MARCH 31 high. The Sun here indicates a great fondness for change. You are

Keyword never content to take things as they come. Because you are ambi-
: Inspiration

Constellation tious, you go out and try to put your mark on the world. Others
: Andromeda, the Chained Woman. She was freed

tend to cluster around you, for you have joie de vivre and a mag-
of her chains by Perseus, the Rescuer. The constellation sym-

netic personality. More than the other two decanates of Aries,
bolizes the power of love.

Planetary subruler you seek pleasure out of life. You have a taste for the expensive
: Mars

and can be quite imperious if you don’t get what you want. A lik-
ing for too much good food is one of your downfalls.

Mars is both your ruler and subruler, giving your personality ex-
tra force and impact. You are a dominant person and can some- THIRD DECANATE: APRIL 11 
times be too aggressive. In an argument or clash of wills, you ride THROUGH APRIL 19
right over the opposition. You are impetuous and energetic and

Keyword: Foresight
tend to throw yourself into activities with all your heart. A person

Constellation: Cassiopeia, a beautiful queen seated on her
of conviction, you will never take an action that you think is

throne who symbolizes good judgment. Down through the
wrong. You are a clear, incisive thinker and can carry a plan to

ages she has been a celestial guide to travelers.
conclusion. Your best quality is your ability to inspire confidence

Planetary subruler: Jupiter
in others. At times you tire yourself out because you don’t know
when to stop. You also tend to monopolize conversations.

The expansive qualities of Jupiter combine with Aries’s Mars to give
you a wide or lofty outlook, a love of ambitious ideas and of travel.

SECOND DECANATE: APRIL 1  
You resent restriction of any kind and prize your personal freedom.

THROUGH APRIL 10
For you, the perfect life is to be successful doing something creative,

Keyword: Innovation where you are in charge and call all the shots. Your sense of adven-
Constellation: Cetus, the Whale or Sea Monster, tied to two ture often takes you far from home. You like to find out new infor-

fishes and led by a lamb. Cetus symbolizes energy harnessed mation, to explore different fields of knowledge. The occult interests
to imagination and love. you. You are shrewd and clever in business matters and may possess

Planetary subruler: Sun an insight or sixth sense about other people. There is a warm-
hearted geniality about you that allows you to make friends easily.

The Sun in this decanate adds to the power of Aries’s Mars, At times you can be too extravagant with money.
which gives your character dignity, pride, and vitality. You have

Th e  D e c a nat e s  a n d  C u s p s  o f S u n  S i g n s • 1 4 7



The Decanates of Taurus
FIRST DECANATE: APRIL 20 should use more often. Because you are a determined worker,
THROUGH APRIL 30 you inspire trust on the part of others. You have an instinct for

Keyword cooperation, but you also need the independence to set your own
: Acquisition

Constellation pace, free from distractions. Your mental powers are very strong,
: Triangulum, the Triangle, mystic symbol of truth

and you can take complex ideas and make them understandable
and harmony.

Planetary subruler to others. Mercury here bestows an ability to speak and write ef-
: Venus

fectively, perhaps even eloquently. Sometimes you meddle too
much into other people’s affairs, and you have a tendency to for-

Venus is both your ruler and subruler, and its gracious influence
get small details.

is prominent in your character. Though you have strong likes and
dislikes, you are not abrasive about them. You have a charming

THIRD DECANATE: MAY 11 
social touch, and many friends are devoted to you. Your kind and

THROUGH MAY 20 
sympathetic nature is easily imposed on. You have an artistic eye
for beauty and design and may possess musical ability. Venus in Keyword: Determination 

this decanate indicates a love of beautiful possessions. Generally, Constellation: Perseus, the Rescuer, the hero with winged feet

your instinct for value is useful; in time many of your possessions and a sword who slew the Gorgon Medusa. Perseus is sym-

should be worth more than you paid for them. Sometimes you bolic of victory.

are too acquisitive and materialistic. Your worst faults are your Planetary subruler: Saturn

stubbornness and a refusal to venture out into new areas.
The meditative qualities of Saturn combine with harmonious
Venus to give you quiet determination and strength of charac-

SECOND DECANATE: MAY 1 
ter. People think of you as stable and reliable, for you are not

THROUGH MAY 10 easily deterred once you are set on a goal. You possess an active
Keyword: Evaluation mind and are keenly observant. Usually you deal with problems
Constellation: Eridanus, the River Po, a winding current that by thoroughly analyzing them before you act. You are not

symbolizes justice. wishy-washy about letting others know where you stand; you’d
Planetary subruler: Mercury rather confront a difficulty than evade and worry about it. You

have strong, deep feelings, and in romantic relationships are
Mercury combines with Venus (Taurus’s ruler) to give you an in- loyal and protective. A fault is that you tend to be too serious.
quisitive mind and a great talent for organization. You are con- Sometimes you are hurt by what others say because you take
servative in approach, but also possess intuitive powers that you things too much to heart.

1 4 8 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



The Decanates of Gemini
FIRST DECANATE: MAY 21 ture. The approval and esteem of others are important to you,

THROUGH MAY 31 and you tend to function best with people rather than as a loner.
There is a sense of adventure in your outlook, and you enjoy

Keyword: Ingenuity travel because it exposes you to new experiences. Once you have
Constellation: Lepus, the Hare, who triumphs over enemies by made up your mind about a pursuit, you eagerly give it your best

outwitting them. effort. Sharing is part of your life; you are generous with your
Planetary subruler: Mercury time and friendship, and also with possessions. You have a great

deal of sex appeal and are ardent in your expression of love. At
Mercury is both your ruler and subruler, and your mental acu- times you can be argumentative because you are so fond of your
men is sharp. You enjoy new ideas and look for chances to ex- own ideas.
press yourself. Your ability to speak or write influences the direc-
tion of your life. You have a forceful personality because you are THIRD DECANATE: JUNE 11 
able to decide quickly and then act. Logic and rationality are two THROUGH JUNE 20
rules you live by; you try not to cloud issues by sentimentalizing

Keyword: Reason
them. This is not to say you don’t have warm feelings. You have a

Constellation: Auriga, the Charioteer. He was the serpent-footed
unique capacity for forming close relationships, and if you love

king who invented the four-wheeled chariot, which symbol-
someone you tend to involve yourself completely in that person’s

izes communication.
affairs. Underneath you are a tense worrier who suffers and frets

Planetary subruler: Uranus
too much. You try to handle all details brilliantly, but often they
overwhelm you.

Uranus, planet of knowledge, combines with Gemini’s Mercury to

SECOND DECANATE: JUNE 1  give you clear and perceptive reasoning powers. You are known

THROUGH JUNE 10 for your original point of view, and other people often seek your
advice. You tend to be intellectual and approach life on a mental

Keyword: Union rather than an emotional basis. Though you have many friend-
Constellation: Orion, the Giant Hunter of magnificent strength ships and love affairs, it is your mind that must be first engaged

and beauty. Orion was placed in the heavens to commemorate before your heart can follow. In your work you take the practical
his great bravery. approach and disregard anything you cannot put to use. You are

Planetary subruler: Venus both witty and loquacious and are never reluctant to say what you
think. At times you are too demanding and domineering, for you

Harmonious Venus combines with Gemini’s Mercury to give you expect others to live up to your high standards.
a deft social touch. People respond to your warm and effusive na-

Th e  D e c a nat e s  a n d  C u s p s  o f S u n  S i g n s • 1 4 9



The Decanates of Cancer
FIRST DECANATE: JUNE 21 interested in things unseen. People are drawn to your sensitivity

THROUGH JUNE 30 and often tell you their secrets. Your intellectual talents are formi-
dable even though your strong feelings predominate when mak-

Keyword: Receptiveness ing decisions. Both curious and intuitive, you are able to gather
Constellation: Canis Minor, the Small Dog, who symbolizes facts and information from all sources and use them for your

reason. benefit. In work you are disciplined and practical; in relationships
Planetary subruler: Moon you are the opposite—sentimental, emotional, and often posses-

sive. You have a tendency to become too fixed and rigid once
The Moon is both your ruler and subruler, and so you tend to be you’ve set your mind.
very receptive and sensitive to other people. You see deeply into
human nature, and your insights and guidance are often sought
after. You would make an excellent teacher or instructor. Ratio- THIRD DECANATE: JULY 12 
nality is important to you. Even though you are an emotional THROUGH JULY 22
person, you are able to sift through facts and arrive at a fair deci- Keyword: Empathy
sion. You have an excellent memory for feelings and impressions Constellation: Argo Navis, the magical ship of adventure that
(both yours and those of others), but ordinary day-to-day details symbolizes strength of mind. Placed in the heavens by Posei-
escape you. In relationships, you look for harmony and security. don to be a guide to travelers on the southern seas.
You dislike quarrels and dissension, and any kind of emotional Planetary subruler: Neptune
disturbance leaves you depressed. At times you are too moody
and pessimistic. The spiritual planet Neptune is your subruler, which joins forces

with the Cancerian Moon to accentuate an impressionable and

SECOND DECANATE: JULY 1  romantic nature. You may be very artistic, and you try to create

THROUGH JULY 11 beauty and harmony around you. Your adaptability to different
kinds of people is one of your secrets of success. Many of you are

Keyword: Intensity destined for some kind of public life. You have an ability to touch
Constellation: Canis Major, the Great Dog, companion to the people’s feelings and to form close ties. In love you have deep

mighty hunter Orion. He symbolizes triumph. emotions. You are loyal and protective toward your family and
Planetary subruler: Pluto mate, and you believe only the best about them. Cautious and

conservative are the words that best describe your approach to
Pluto is the planet of depth and intensity, and combines with problems. Even in the midst of crisis, you look for balance. Often
your Cancer Moon to give you a forceful yet thoughtful personal- you are prone toward discontent and dissatisfaction.
ity. Of the three Cancer decanates, yours is the most mystical and

1 5 0 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



The Decanates of Leo
FIRST DECANATE: JULY 23 very proud nature and a quick temper. Your ability to dissect
THROUGH AUGUST 1 problems and see immediately what needs to be done gives you

Keyword an authority that others respond to. Though you are jovial and
: Self-expression

Constellation good-humored, it’s hard for you to laugh at yourself. You are am-
: Ursa Minor, the Small Bear. This is the constella-

bitious, but not just for money; what you want is to know more,
tion of the Little Dipper. The Small Bear symbolizes goals and

to gain in intelligence. While you can do manual labor, you much
true direction.

Planetary subruler prefer mental pursuits. Sometimes you are thought of as being
: Sun

brash and overconfident, but this is simply a genuine expression
of your enthusiasm and willingness to try.

The Sun is both your ruler and subruler, and you are doubly un-
der its beneficent influence. You enjoy being in the spotlight and

THIRD DECANATE: AUGUST 13 
may be known as a colorful personality. You have an artistic flair.

THROUGH AUGUST 22
You also have a knack for drawing attention because of the way
you speak and present yourself. The role of a leader comes easily, Keyword: Creativity

for you are able to excite and stimulate others. In general, you Constellation: Hydra, the water-serpent, who symbolizes ac-

don’t keep your feelings to yourself. When you are happy the tivism and mental energy.

world knows about it. When you are melancholy you are usually Planetary subruler: Mars

vocal in expressing your moods. You are impulsive in love and
tend to follow the dictates of your heart without thinking. At The aggressive planet Mars combines with Leo’s Sun to underline

times, you can be very stubborn about wanting your own way. your impetuousness and willpower. You plunge into new projects
with verve, but you want tangible results for your efforts. Day-to-

SECOND DECANATE: AUGUST 2  day routine quickly bores you; you need fresh ideas, new stimula-
THROUGH AUGUST 12 tion, and challenge to keep you at your best. Your life is often

Keyword marked by furious bursts of energy, followed by periods of com-
: Expansion

Constellation plete lethargy. In personal relationships, people are never in
: Ursa Major, the Great Bear. This is the constella-

doubt about where they stand with you. Love may be trouble-
tion of the Big Dipper. The Great Bear symbolizes wisdom.

Planetary subruler some because you want it to be perfect and you can be too de-
: Jupiter

manding of a lover. You find waiting very difficult. Since you are
outspoken, you dislike secretive people. Sometimes you have a

The expansive planet Jupiter co-rules your decanate with Leo’s
reputation for being temperamental.

Sun, accenting intellectual and visionary qualities. You have a

Th e  D e c a nat e s  a n d  C u s p s  o f S u n  S i g n s • 1 5 1



The Decanates of Virgo
FIRST DECANATE: AUGUST 23 details and want to plot your moves in advance so there won’t be

THROUGH SEPTEMBER 1 any mistakes. Though you are versatile and adaptable, most peo-
ple think of you as persistent and tenacious. Your fixity of pur-

Keyword: Analysis pose is simply that you demand perfection of yourself and try to
Constellation: Crater, the Cup, the goblet of Apollo. The Cup give your best performance. In truth you are too exacting and

symbolizes emotional giving. suffer needlessly when you don’t live up to your expectations.
Planetary subruler: Mercury When you are in love you have a gentle and sympathetic nature,

and you do all in your power to please. You are easy to live with
Mercury, planet of the mind, is both your ruler and subruler, giv- as long as no one arouses your strong stubborn streak.
ing you a formidable intellect. You approach problems rationally;
you want to find out the reason things happen, and then apply
your knowledge to working out a better system. Often your in- THIRD DECANATE: SEPTEMBER 13
sights are thought of as prophetic, but they are the result of keen THROUGH SEPTEMBER 22
observation. You have a warm and witty personality that draws Keyword: Discrimination
friends and admirers. However, your standards are high and you Constellation: Bootes, the Bear Driver, the ancient herdsman
expect intelligence and decorum in the people you associate who every day chased the Great Bear around the North Pole.
with. In love you are romantic and devoted and have great sensi- Bootes symbolizes the utilization of knowledge.
tivity toward a lover. There is much nervous energy churning be- Planetary subruler: Venus
neath your surface. You tend to worry secretly and to fuss over
small problems. The gregarious and social qualities of Venus combine with

Virgo’s Mercury to signify a winning way with people. What mo-

SECOND DECANATE: SEPTEMBER 2 tivates you is a desire for approval. You have a special talent for

THROUGH SEPTEMBER 12 using words and can write and speak charmingly. An artistic flair
and use of color is usually present in your surroundings or dress.

Keyword: Efficiency You possess a sense of style and project a strong personal image.
Constellation: Hercules, the strong and virtuous hero who tri- Poise and confidence are assets in your work or career, and you

umphs over evil. are known for your tact and diplomacy. Since you are unhappy
Planetary subruler: Saturn living under restrictions, you are drawn to creative pursuits

where you are free to be your own master. In love you are warm-
Saturn, planet of determination, combines with Virgo’s Mercury hearted and generous, though you demand a lot of attention in
to give special force to your personality. You are concerned with return.

1 5 2 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



The Decanates of Libra
FIRST DECANATE: SEPTEMBER 23 serene and charming. The Scales (Libra’s symbol) also represent a
THROUGH O CTOBER 2 duality that often makes you feel like two different people. There is

Keyword a radiance to you, an artistic and original style, matched with a de-
: Magnetism

Constellation termination to accomplish what you set out to do. You are an inde-
: Corvus, the Crow, symbolizing idealism and a

pendent person, yet you need companionship and love. Endurance
sense of duty.

Planetary subruler and conservatism are hidden in your depths. You are at your best
: Venus

in social situations; this is where you come to life and shine.

Venus is both your ruler and subruler, which intensifies your Li-
THIRD DECANATE: O CTOBER 14

bran love for beauty, pleasure, and luxury. You tend to have extrav-
THROUGH O CTOBER 22

agant tastes and often have trouble holding on to money. Blessed
with great social charm, you strive to make an impact. To a large Keyword: Order

extent, the way you feel about yourself is determined by how much Constellation: Corona Borealis, the Northern Crown, the bridal

love you receive from others, and in general you try to achieve your crown of Ariadne. Christian astronomers called it the Crown

goals through other people. Sometimes you cover up a lack of self- of Thorns. Corona Borealis symbolizes achievement.

confidence by being the aggressor or the one who initiates projects. Planetary subruler: Mercury

You have a creative nature that welcomes new ideas, and you are
fond of travel. In love you are romantic and impulsive, but you The energy and quickness of Mercury join with Libra’s Venus to

have a tendency to choose lovers who take more than they give. give you an attention-getting personality. You have both vitality
and likeableness, a combination that indicates success working

SECOND DECANATE: O CTOBER 3 with the public. Your mind is forceful, curious, open to new

THROUGH O CTOBER 13 ideas. In general, you tend to follow your head rather than your
heart. You enjoy sifting through information and making a rea-

Keyword: Endurance sonable and balanced judgment. Your pronounced intellectual ca-
Constellation: Centaurus, the Centaur, the magical half man, pabilities are part of your allure; you have much sex appeal and

half horse that symbolizes duality in human beings. enjoy attention from a wide range of people. Sometimes the
Planetary subruler: Uranus depth of your true feeling for a lover is not apparent on the sur-

face. Though you have a talent for the written word, you find it
Uranus, planet of the intellect, rules your decanate, giving power to difficult to speak of your emotions.
the romantic qualities of Libra’s Venus. Often people are surprised
at the sharpness of your mind, since your personality tends to be

Th e  D e c a nat e s  a n d  C u s p s  o f S u n  S i g n s • 1 5 3



The Decanates of Scorpio
FIRST DECANATE: O CTOBER 23 THROUGH tend to reach out toward others and give of yourself. You would
NOVEMBER 1 make a superb teacher, healer, or physician; you have a talent for

Keyword inspiring and helping others. It is important to you to find
: Integrity

Constellation deeper meaning in your relationships. You are romantic and in-
: Serpens, the Serpent, symbolizing power and oc-

tense; love fulfills and completes you. Once you can find content-
cult knowledge.

Planetary subruler ment in love, you reach your true potential in other areas of life.
: Pluto

Generally, your luck comes through other people when you least
expect it. You are not a patient person and find it difficult to wait

Pluto is both your ruler and subruler, which gives a hypnotic in-
for the slow unfolding of events in your life.

tensity to your personality. You are loyal and steadfast, and others
quickly sense they can depend on you. You will stand by a lover
long after others in the same situation would let go. Once you let THIRD DECANATE: NOVEMBER 12
go, however, there is usually no turning back. You have fixed THROUGH NOVEMBER 21
opinions, but also a scientific turn of mind that will examine Keyword: Clarification
ideas and arrive at a new opinion should the facts warrant it. You Constellation: Aquila, the Eagle, whom the Greeks considered the
are drawn to the mysterious and the occult, but may keep this a only creature able to outstare the Sun. The Eagle is symbolic of
secret. Should you choose to use it, you have great power of self- rising above earthly limitations.
discipline. Sometimes you let things slide by because you don’t Planetary subruler: Moon
care enough to exert yourself.

The sensuous Moon combines with Scorpio’s Pluto to give an al-
SECOND DECANATE: NOVEMBER 2 lure to your personality. You are at your best dealing with groups
THROUGH NOVEMBER 11 of people, and tend to choose work that projects you into the
Keyword: Regeneration public eye. Your magnetic social touch wins popularity. Fate
Constellation: Lupus, the Wolf, held aloft by Centaurus. The seems to thrust you into situations or relationships that you do

Wolf symbolizes offering. not pick, but are often the most successful for you. You have a
Planetary subruler: Neptune strong sense of ethics, and injustice brings out your fighting

spirit. At times you can be moody, especially when the actions of
Neptune, planet of sensitivity, combines with Scorpio’s Pluto to other people discourage you. You have deep emotions that you
accentuate an idealistic personality. In both work and love, you have difficulty sharing. Once you reveal yourself, you are direct

and honest and don’t evade the truth.

1 5 4 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



The Decanates of Sagittarius
FIRST DECANATE: NOVEMBER 22 gift of being able to influence and inspire others. Often the kind-
THROUGH DECEMBER 1 nesses you show have a much greater impact than you know.

Keyword Your life is usually geared toward a goal; your real respect is for
: Honesty

Constellation achievement. You are dependable, efficient, and thorough when
: Ophiuchus, the Serpent-Holder, who as a child

you undertake to do a job. At times you may be discouraged, but
vanquished his serpent enemies. Ophiuchus symbolizes vic-

the face you show to the world is one of humor and strength of
tory over adversity.

Planetary subruler character. You are a person of fierce independence; you want to
: Jupiter

do things your way, though you will try not to step on any toes.
In love you may seem detached, but you are devoted and loyal.

Jupiter, planet of wisdom, is both your ruler and subruler, which ac-
centuates lofty ideals and a love of knowledge. You look for experi-

THIRD DECANATE: DECEMBER 12
ence and adventure. You want to deepen your understanding of life

THROUGH DECEMBER 21
and are usually a student of human nature. People know they can
trust what you tell them, for you are open and aboveboard. In addi- Keyword: Intuition

tion, you have a special talent for pleasing others by what you say. Constellation: Ara, the Altar of Dionysus (Bacchus). Christian

You believe strongly in freedom, in the right of each person to astronomers called it the Altar of Noah. Ara symbolizes unity

choose an individual pathway. Because you have such wide-ranging and triumph.

interests, you may find it hard to commit yourself completely to a Planetary subruler: Sun

marriage or love affair. Emotional discord is extremely distressing to
you; you strive to surround yourself with harmonious relationships. The Sun, which stands for pride and vitality, joins forces with

beneficent Jupiter; together they give great magnetism to your
SECOND DECANATE: DECEMBER 2 personality and a charming talent for making people laugh. Often
THROUGH DECEMBER 11 your profound intellect is hidden under a social and gregarious

Keyword exterior. Gifted with intuition and insight, you have a deep capac-
: Drive

Constellation ity for learning and discovering deeper meaning. You enjoy travel
: Sagitta, the Arrow that killed the eagle who fed

and meeting new people, for you want to widen your experience.
upon Prometheus. The Arrow symbolizes the destruction of

The world of teaching or writing beckons to you. You have a re-
evil in its path.

Planetary subruler fined and elegant nature that responds to art and beauty. In love,
: Mars

you are passionate and impulsive. You tend to fall head over heels
quickly, but these crushes fade away just as quickly.

Mars, planet of initiative, combines with Jupiter’s expansiveness
to give you a courageous and generous nature. You have the rare

Th e  D e c a nat e s  a n d  C u s p s  o f S u n  S i g n s • 1 5 5



The Decanates of Capricorn
FIRST DECANATE: DECEMBER 22 your warmth and charm. Venus here also indicates an interest in
THROUGH DECEMBER 31 beauty and design, and perhaps some creative ability. In your

Keyword work, you are practical and persistent. You are a doer who does
: Responsibility

Constellation not waste precious time. You enjoy periods of solitude to read,
: Corona Australis, the Southern Crown, garland

think, explore new subjects. Possibly you carry on a large corre-
of the gods. The constellation symbolizes commitment to

spondence, for you write well. Travel holds fascination for you.
knowledge.

Planetary subruler Your lover, family, and friends take first place in your heart; you
: Saturn

are devoted to their wants and needs. You are reticent about your
feelings. Love is a deep emotion, and you don’t readily speak of it.

Saturn, planet of discipline, is both your ruler and subruler,
which gives you a serious mien and a talent for handling respon-

THIRD DECANATE: JANUARY 11
sibility. You are precise and orderly and generally don’t trust oth-

THROUGH JANUARY 19
ers to look after details. When you undertake a task you complete
it to the best of your ability. Once you’ve set your mind on a goal, Keyword: Honor

you are relentless and determined. There is a quiet force to your Constellation: Draco, the Dragon, the “seeing one” who guarded

personality; other people are always aware of your presence. You the Golden Apples. The Dragon symbolizes observation and

are both subtle and aggressive; you have an instinct for knowing intuition.

how far you can push. Ambition usually motivates you, for you Planetary subruler: Mercury

are never content to be an underling. Love brings out your affec-
tionate and demonstrative nature. When aroused you are a pas- Mercury, planet of mental energy, adds impetus to the discipline

sionate person. of Saturn. You have a quick intellect and flexibility of character
that allows you to adapt to different people and situations. When
you give your word you stick to it; you treat others fairly and

SECOND DECANATE: JANUARY 1
with respect. Friends and admirers are drawn to your spiritual

THROUGH JANUARY 10 nature. You are an idealist and a dreamer, but when motivated
Keyword: Fairness you are also an indefatigable worker. Money and material com-
Constellation: Lyra, the Harp, formed by the god Mercury from forts are important to you, and you usually quickly spot where

a tortoiseshell. Lyra symbolizes harmony. your best financial interests lie. You are a person of deep desires,
Planetary subruler: Venus though this may not be apparent on the surface. Life is often

marked by a struggle to fulfill your inner needs.
Venus, planet of love, softens Saturn’s stern influence and gives a
gentleness and serenity to your personality. People respond to

1 5 6 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



The Decanates of Aquarius
FIRST DECANATE: JANUARY 20 THROUGH You have a spontaneity and genuine warmth that draws others
JANUARY 29 to you. One of your most outstanding traits is your honesty and

Keyword frankness in speech. People know they can depend on what you
: Knowledge

Constellation say, for you speak your true mind. Mercury bestows a gift for
: Delphinus, the Dolphin, ancient savior of the

language, and you may have literary interests. You probably
shipwrecked. The Dolphin symbolizes spirituality.

Planetary subruler have the ability to sum up a person or situation in a clever 
: Uranus

and witty phrase. You enjoy knowledge for its own sake and 
are always interested in learning more. You want love to be a

Uranus, planet of originality, is both your ruler and subruler,
consuming and passionate experience, but you are too self-

which accentuates your perception and quick mentality. You are
sufficient to be swept away.

capable and intelligent and deal easily with people. Your wit and
sense of humor are advantages both socially and in your work.

THIRD DECANATE: FEBRUARY 9
What others may consider obstacles, you think of as challenges.

THROUGH FEBRUARY 18
Finding solutions and a better, quicker way of handling things is
what you emphasize. You are intrigued by new problems and Keyword: Association

need change in your activities to keep you from going stale. You Constellation: Equuleus, the Little Horse, brother of Pegasus.

have an affectionate and kindhearted nature, although a lover The Little Horse symbolizes loyalty and the harnessing of

may complain of your detachment. This is probably because you strength.

try to apply logic to emotional situations. You are fond of analyz- Planetary subruler: Venus

ing why a person behaves in this way or that.
Venus, planet of sociability, combines with Aquarius’s Uranus to

SECOND DECANATE: JANUARY 30 make you the most people-oriented of the three decanates. You
THROUGH FEBRUARY 8 have the ability to form close and enduring ties. Often your suc-

Keyword cess in work comes through other people. You probably have an
: Frankness

Constellation artistic nature and take pride in making your surroundings as
: Piscis Austrinus, the Southern Fish that symbol-

beautiful as you can. You like people who do what they say 
izes knowledge and fertility of mind. The Fish drinks from the

they will and who show up on time. In your own life you are
Fountain of Wisdom.

Planetary subruler careful about details and tend to be critical about the lax ways 
: Mercury

of others. Travel and new adventure always excite you, for you 
are a forward-looking person. In love, you are romantic and af-

Mercury, planet of versatility, adds its energy to Aquarius’s
fectionate and you tend to have a flirtatious eye.

Uranus, which gives a liveliness and sparkle to your personality.

Th e  D e c a nat e s  a n d  C u s p s  o f S u n  S i g n s • 1 5 7



The Decanates of Pisces
FIRST DECANATE: FEBRUARY 19 uncanny way of knowing what those around you think or feel,
THROUGH FEBRUARY 29 and can use this power on a much wider scale. You are, or have

Keyword the potential to become, well known not only in your circle but
: Imagination

Constellation in the larger world. Your observations are keen; you are able to
: Pegasus, the Winged Horse who bears the rider of

gather ideas or art forms and transform them with your own
good fortune.

Planetary subruler unique vision. Social occasions enable you to display your special
: Neptune

charm with people and a knack for witty conversation that is one
of your strong points. You are a romantic at heart, and love is a

Neptune, planet of illusion, is both your ruler and subruler,
transforming experience for you. Unfortunately, you don’t find

which emphasizes creativity and imagination. There may be in-
love easy to hold on to.

volvement in artistic or literary work; you have a talent for ex-
pressing your inner thoughts. You are particularly sensitive to the

THIRD DECANATE: MARCH 11 THROUGH
people with whom you share your life. Discord is unbearable to

MARCH 20
you, and you will do your best to shield yourself from unpleas-
antness. Your keen mind is open to ideas, and personal achieve- Keyword: Action

ment is important to you. Often you must struggle to accentuate Constellation: Cepheus, the Monarch who rests one foot on the

positiveness instead of letting negative feelings overwhelm you. Pole Star. He symbolizes constancy.

You may suffer from physical ailments, but your character is very Planetary subruler: Pluto

strong. Love is probably tempestuous, for you have deep pas-
sions. Pluto, planet of power, gives force to Pisces’s Neptune and under-

lines your need for activity and outlets. You possess imagination
and vision; if you harness your energy you can soar to great

SECOND DECANATE: MARCH 1
heights of achievement. Intellectually you are curious and like to

THROUGH MARCH 10 explore the unusual or hidden. You are especially drawn to reli-
Keyword: Compassion gious, spiritual, or occult matters. Solitude and periods of with-
Constellation: Cygnus, the Swan. Also called the Northern drawal from others are necessary for you to think, review, and

Cross. The Swan is the celestial symbol of grace and beauty. meditate. You have a talent for writing or speaking that can move
Planetary subruler: Moon and influence other people. Your emotions are deep and strong;

you understand first with your heart and only then with your
The receptive Moon combines with the spiritual influence of head. Love motivates many of your decisions.
Neptune and heightens your awareness of others. You have an

1 5 8 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
What Is a Cusp?

A cusp is  the p oint at which a new astrological sign begins.* Thus, the “cusp of Aries” means the point
at which Aries begins. (The word comes from the Latin word cuspis, meaning “point.”)

When someone speaks of being “born on the cusp,” he or she is referring to a birth time at or near the begin-
ning or the end of an astrological sign. For example, if you were born on July 23, you were born on the cusp of
Leo, the sign that begins on July 23. Indeed, depending on what year you were born, your birth time might even
be in the last degree of Cancer. The Sun does not move into a new sign at exactly the same moment each year,
and the dates for the different Sun signs may vary by a day or so. Even if the Sun were moving into Leo on that
day, what time of day did this happen? Were you born while the Sun was still in Cancer or after the Sun entered
into Leo? If your birthday is near the beginning or end of a sign, check the Sun Tables starting on page 425 or
cast your chart using the enclosed CD-ROM to be absolutely certain which sign you were born in.

Astrologers differ about when a person is born on the cusp. Some astrologers claim it means only within the
first two days or last two days of a sign. Others say it can be as much as within the first ten days or last ten days
of a sign. The consensus, however, is that you were born on the cusp if your birthday is within the first five days
or last five days of a sign.

With cusp-born people there is always the question, “What sign am I really?” They feel that they straddle the
border of two different countries.

To some extent, this is true. If you were cusp-born, you are under the influence of both signs. However,
much like being a traveler leaving one country and crossing into another, you must actually be in one coun-
try—you can’t be in two countries at the same time. One sign is always a stronger influence, and that sign is
almost invariably the sign that the Sun was actually in (in other words, your Sun sign). The reason I say “al-
most” is that in rare cases a chart may be so heavily weighted with planets in a certain sign that the person
more keenly feels the influence of that specific sign.

For example, I have a friend whose birthday is December 22. On the day of his birth the Sun was leaving
Sagittarius and entering Capricorn. At the moment of his birth the Sun was still in Sagittarius, so technically

*There are two kinds of cusps in astrology—sign cusps and House cusps, i.e., the point at which a sign begins and the point at which a House begins.
Houses are the twelve divisions of a birth chart that represent various departments of life (for example, career, marriage, wealth and possessions). As-
trologers carefully study House cusps when interpreting a birth chart because planets on or near the cusps of the Houses have a stronger influence than
other planets in the chart. For more about Houses, see chapter 8, “The Houses of Astrology.”

Th e  D e c a nat e s  a n d  C u s p s  o f S u n  S i g n s • 1 5 9



speaking he is a Sagittarian. However, the Sun was only two hours away from being in Capricorn, and this per-
son has the Moon, Mercury, and Saturn all in Capricorn. He has always felt like a Capricorn and has always be-
haved as a Capricorn.

This, obviously, is an unusual case. Generally, the Sun is the most powerful planetary influence in a
chart. Even if you were born with the Sun on the very tip of the first or last degree of a sign, that sign is your
Sun sign, and that is the sign you will most feel like.

However, the influence of the approaching sign or of the sign just ending is present, and you will probably
sense that mixture in yourself. If you are cusp-born, you should recognize yourself in one of the following de-
scriptions.

1 6 0 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



The Cusps of Aries
B ORN MARCH 21 THROUGH MARCH 25 B ORN APRIL 15 THROUGH APRIL 19
You are Aries with Pisces tendencies. You are headstrong and im- You are Aries with Taurus tendencies. You are impatient, high-
pulsive, but there is a part of you that longs for peace and soli- strung, and volatile, but also determined and at times very stub-
tude. You resent it when others intrude on or interfere with your born. Ariens have the reputation for not finishing what they be-
plans. Your intellectual powers are keen, and you enjoy probing gin, but you are able to see a project through to the end. You like
into new areas and coming up with different ideas. You are clearly to be the one in charge, and your reaction to disorder and sloppi-
an individual. Warmth and sympathy come easily to you. Gener- ness is irritation. Emotions are a dominant factor in your life.
ally you are fond of entertaining and get along well with people. People always know they can get an honest reaction from you.
Your lovemaking tends to be passionate. You are fiery and romantic. You have strong feelings, whether it

be anger or joy or love.

The Cusps of Taurus
B ORN APRIL 20 THROUGH APRIL 24 B ORN MAY 16 THROUGH MAY 20
You are Taurus with Aries tendencies. You are self- You are Taurus with Gemini tendencies. You are ambitious, have
sufficient and determined, but also spirited and independent. You strong willpower, and are also imaginative and intellectually in-
cannot bear being restricted by other people’s rules, and whatever clined. You have an attractive personality and possess a special
the situation you always assert your own personality. People often persuasive touch that works well with people. Generally, you deal
come to you for advice; you may be known as having great style in a straightforward manner because you prefer to cut through
and confidence. In truth, you sometimes feel insecure, but you deception or secretiveness and lay things out in the open. You
hide it very well. You take the intellectual approach to solving dislike taking orders. Words come easily to you unless you are
problems. In love, however, you are impulsive and extravagant. emotionally involved; then you are often unable to express your

deepest feelings. This is especially true when you are in love.

Th e  D e c a nat e s  a n d  C u s p s  o f S u n  S i g n s • 1 6 1



The Cusps of Gemini
B ORN MAY 21 THROUGH MAY 25 B ORN JUNE 16 THROUGH JUNE 20
You are Gemini with Taurus tendencies. You are inquisitive and You are Gemini with Cancer tendencies. You are quick-witted
changeable, but you also have a stubborn streak and are not easily and communicative, and also analytical, cautious, and conserva-
moved off your course. At times you become irritable when oth- tive in your approach. When you give your word, others know
ers don’t measure up to your expectations. Generally, though, you they can trust you to do exactly as you say. You like to be sur-
deal tactfully with others and you have many friends. Artistic tal- rounded with familiar objects and people, and you put a lot of
ent may be evident, but you are practical and realistic about mak- weight on charming manners and appearance. Yours is a sensitive
ing money. Your attitude in new situations is, “Where do I fit in?” nature that is easily hurt by carelessness or selfishness. You are
Usually you make a marvelous first impression. not satisfied with being ordinary; you want to create beauty or be

known for your brilliance.

The Cusps of Cancer
B ORN JUNE 21 THROUGH JUNE 25 B ORN JULY 18 THROUGH JULY 22
You are Cancer with Gemini tendencies. You have a sympathetic You are Cancer with Leo tendencies. You are idealistic and sensi-
and generous nature, and an incisive, intellectual mind. You may tive, and also clever and forceful, and you probably you have a
be famous for your brain, but those close to you know you are a temper that quickly comes and goes. In work, you like doing
softie inside. Sometimes your heart and mind are at odds with things your own way. You possess a pleasing social grace that
each other; emotions affect you more than you like to admit. You mixes easily with people, but you take a long time to form truly
have a special touch for getting along with people from all walks close relationships. Love is not impulsive. You may be instantly at-
of life. You need stimulation and change, and will become discon- tracted to someone, but you are careful because you fear rejection
tent if stuck in one place for too long. and won’t let yourself become too vulnerable

1 6 2 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



The Cusps of Leo
B ORN JULY 23 THROUGH JULY 27 B ORN AUGUST 18 THROUGH 
You are Leo with Cancer tendencies. You have high aspirations AUGUST 22
and tend to be creative, and at the same time are methodical and You are Leo with Virgo tendencies. You gain attention because of
studious. You want to make the “right” decisions and hate to be your strong personality and sense of style. Determination is one
caught unprepared or off-guard. Mental work stimulates you; of your dominant qualities; you climb over obstacles to reach a
you have good powers of concentration and an ability to express goal or get something your heart is set on. You have a taste for el-
yourself. Because of your ebullience and warmth, you attract egance and like to travel first class. Though you are very level-
many friends. You are often extravagant with money because you headed when analyzing other people’s problems, you are basically
love to buy beautiful things. You also are headstrong and posses- an emotional person. You make decisions first with your heart
sive in love. and then rationalize with your head.

The Cusps of Virgo
B ORN AUGUST 23 THROUGH AUGUST 27 B ORN SEPTEMBER 18 THROUGH 
You are Virgo with Leo tendencies. You are kind, gracious, and SEPTEMBER 22
reliable, and you also possess great flair and personal style. Your You are Virgo with Libra tendencies. You are an idea person, intel-
optimism, wit, and sense of fun magnetically draw people toward lectual and perceptive. You have a gregarious nature and are most
you. Projects you undertake are likely to be successful because of successful dealing with and through other people. Your mind is
your eye for detail and quick intelligence. Often you end up han- alert and lively, and you probably have a facile flair for conversa-
dling the whole show because of your organizational abilities. tion. Your particular gift is for using your social talents in your
Sometimes you are impatient with the irresponsibility of others. work. Your finely honed esthetic sense sets high standards. You
You shine in social settings. In love, you tend to be effusive, may be a collector of beautiful objects or be drawn to creative pur-
warm, and loyal. suits. In love you are sincere and expressive but need a lot of atten-

tion and devotion from a lover.

Th e  D e c a nat e s  a n d  C u s p s  o f S u n  S i g n s • 1 6 3



The Cusps of Libra
B ORN SEPTEMBER 23 THROUGH B ORN O CTOBER 18 THROUGH 
SEPTEMBER 27 O CTOBER 22
You are Libra with Virgo tendencies. You are people- You are Libra with Scorpio tendencies. You have magnetic personal
oriented and possess a talent for making others like you. You are charm and usually try to maneuver situations so you are the one
also industrious and have a keen eye for detail but sometimes take who controls or directs. You know how to work hard, and you ap-
on more than you can handle. It is important to you to be ad- ply yourself wholeheartedly to achieve a goal. You are skillful in
mired. You are aware of your public image and always strive to dealing with people. Your sensuality attracts others, even when you
make the best impression. You would like to keep your emotions are not aware of it. At times you can be impatient and quick-tem-
on an even keel, but you tend to be either enthusiastically happy pered, but basically you don’t like arguments and you are willing to
or else dejected over some little thing going wrong. Love makes keep peace. You have a captivating social nature. Punctuality is not
you feel fulfilled, and you are probably flirtatious. one of your strong points.

The Cusps of Scorpio
B ORN O CTOBER 23 THROUGH B ORN NOVEMBER 17 THROUGH
O CTOBER 27 NOVEMBER 21
You are Scorpio with Libra tendencies. There is an elegance to You are Scorpio with Sagittarius tendencies. You are sensitive,
your personality, a charm and good-naturedness that people re- intuitive, and likely have a lot of nervous energy. You enjoy a
spond to. You have a talent for expressing your opinions in an apt variety of interests and hobbies and attract different types of
and amusing way. You have a strong will, but unless you are friends. Mental activity stimulates you. You are fond of discus-
crossed or thwarted you don’t often show it. In general, you are sion and are never reluctant to share an opinion. Those you
cooperative and friendly, even though you prefer to work alone at love are aware of your loyalty and warm feelings; others usually
your own pace. This is especially true in any creative enterprise. see you as someone who makes dispassionate judgments. The
In love your feelings run deep and you tend to be cautious. You truth is that you are sentimental, but able to stand back and be
don’t commit yourself easily because you fear being hurt or re- objective if this is in your best interests.
jected.

1 6 4 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



The Cusps of Sagittarius
B ORN NOVEMBER 22 THROUGH B ORN DECEMBER 17 THROUGH
NOVEMBER 26 DECEMBER 21
You are Sagittarius with Scorpio tendencies. You are high-strung You are Sagittarius with Capricorn tendencies. You are genial and
and excitable and may be known as a colorful personality. You good-natured and have charming social manners. You are also
are also intelligent, versatile, and forward-thinking. Life is full of ambitious, know how to take responsibility, and are thorough
activity for you. Because you dislike being alone, you surround when doing a job. Since you have both imagination and a strong
yourself with people and projects and sometimes spread yourself sense of self, you like to work without interference from others.
too thin. You know how to spot an advantage and how to make People sometimes look to you for advice, since your quick mind
yourself the center of attention. You have good psychic powers can zero in on important matters. You have a sensitive nature
and an ability to probe into other people’s minds. In love you are and a capacity for loving deeply. You do not always make wise
passionate but changeable. decisions in love, however.

The Cusps of Capricorn
B ORN DECEMBER 22 THROUGH B ORN JANUARY 15 THROUGH 
DECEMBER 26 JANUARY 19
You are Capricorn with Sagittarius tendencies. Underneath your You are Capricorn with Aquarius tendencies. You are a deep person
practical and sometimes unemotional approach, you have a kind who possesses insight and vision, but you are also generous and
and loving heart. People instinctively rely on your integrity. You do fun-loving and like to be in the company of people. You enjoy en-
not betray their confidences and are a sympathetic listener. There tertaining and the “good life,” and may be known as an excellent
is an adventurous quality to you; you like to travel and to explore host or hostess. Success is likely working with the public. In general,
new places and ideas. Even though you are conservative and cau- you look on the positive side, but when things go wrong you are
tious in your judgments, you are always willing to examine another able to see only the negative. Your loyalty is unshakable, and you are
point of view. You often pick up unspoken signals from others be- always ready to help someone you love. In romance you tend to set-
cause of your keen sensitivity. tle for less than you deserve.

Th e  D e c a nat e s  a n d  C u s p s  o f S u n  S i g n s • 1 6 5



The Cusps of Aquarius
B ORN JANUARY 20 THROUGH B ORN FEBRUARY 14 THROUGH 
JANUARY 24 FEBRUARY 18
You are Aquarius with Capricorn tendencies. You have a quick You are Aquarius with Pisces tendencies. You have an easygoing
mind and are versatile enough to handle many varied projects. In charm that fits in well with almost any group. Whereas you may
addition you have a good memory and a methodical approach. have many acquaintances, those who know you really well are few.
Generally you are most successful in enterprises where you can You have a lighthearted exterior that often hides deeper feelings.
run things your own way. Your sociable nature attracts people, In work you are forward-thinking and progressive, but also cau-
and you may be known for a witty sense of humor. At times you tious. You view life with a somewhat jaded eye and won’t rush
need complete privacy and periods of reflection. You have a into anything new without investigation. Nothing offends you
strong streak of independence. You try to deal with love analyti- more than being unfairly dealt with. You tend to have extravagant
cally because you dislike falling prey to feelings. tastes and enjoy spending money.

The Cusps of Pisces
B ORN FEBRUARY 19 THROUGH B ORN MARCH 16 THROUGH 
FEBRUARY 23 MARCH 20
You are Pisces with Aquarius tendencies. You have an elegant and You are Pisces with Aries tendencies. You have keen powers of
refined nature, and also an infectious sense of fun. You possess observation and are drawn to the unusual in people and in ideas.
both determination and good organizational ability, and gener- You have a strong personality that makes an impact, and you
ally are successful at making money. In your work, you can be in- possess the ability to execute personal plans in spite of obstacles.
cisive and objective about solving problems. People are often sur- In short, you are a most original person. You have learned that
prised at the variety and extent of your interests. You have strong luck comes when you least expect it. You have a magnetic social
likes and dislikes, but also an open mind that enjoys toying with touch and are usually surrounded by friends and acquaintances.
new ideas. You need change in scenery to keep from becoming You are flirtatious and changeable, but in love you are capable of
bored. Love may be elusive because you need a special kind of intense devotion.
person to fulfill you.

1 6 6 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



8
4

A S T R O L O G Y  A N D  H E A L T H

mong the most imp ortant questions a client asks an astrologer is, “What does my chart say

Aabout my health?” Health and well-being are of paramount concern to human beings. Love, money, or
career take second place, for without good health we cannot enjoy anything else in life.

Astrology and medicine have had a long marriage. Hippocrates (born around 460 B.C.), the Greek philoso-
pher and physician who is considered the father of medicine, said, “A physician without a knowledge of astrol-
ogy has no right to call himself a physician.” Indeed, up until the eighteenth century, the study of astrology and
its relationship to the body was very much a part of a doctor’s training. When a patient became ill a chart was
immediately drawn up. This guided the doctor in both diagnosis and treatment, for the chart would tell when
the crisis would come and what medicine would help. Of course, Western doctors in the twentieth century no
longer use astrology to treat illness. However, astrology can still be a useful tool in helping to maintain our phys-
ical well-being.

8
The Signs and Anatomy

To begin with, each sign of the zodiac rules or governs a specific part of the body. These associations date back
to the beginning of astrology. Curiously, the part of the body that a sign rules is in some ways the strongest and
in other ways the weakest area for a person born under that sign. Look under your individual sign to see how
this paradox of nature applies to you.

1 6 7



8 8
The Planets and Your Body The association between the signs of the zodiac and the

In addition to the sign’s rulership over parts of the body, different parts of the body and the illnesses connected

the planets are associated with various glands in the body. with them is part of the Hermetic Theory, an ancient

These glands release hormones that keep our bodies func- Egyptian-Greek philosophical science that held that the

tioning. entire cosmos is reflected in the human being. The signs
of the zodiac, beginning with Aries and ending with
Pisces, correlate to the human body, beginning with the

8 head (ruled by Aries) and ending with the feet (ruled by

Astrology and Diet Pisces). Thus, the entire zodiac is contained within the hu-
man body.

Each sign of the zodiac has particular diet needs for min- I want to say a word to you before you read this health
erals that are found in certain foods. Your diet may be fail- chapter. It can be read on both a simplistic and a more ad-
ing to supply these specific needs. Included under your vanced level. If, for example, you were born with the Sun
sign is a list of foods that would be beneficial for you in a in Aries, you will no doubt read the pages about Aries and
healthful eating program. probably discover that many of the health tips and med-

ical issues discussed in the Aries section apply to you. But

8 the story does not end there.
For one thing, modern medical astrology believes

Astrology and Your Erogenous Zones strongly in the “principle of polarity,” that the opposite

Our bodies are very sensitive to the touch of another hu- sign in the zodiac also influences the health of the native.

man being. The special language of touching is understood Thus, if you are Aries, you should also read the pages on

on a level more basic than speech. For each sign in the zo- Libra (Aries’s opposite sign), for there will be guidance in

diac, there are certain zones and areas of the body that are those pages that also relates to Aries.

especially receptive and can receive sexual messages through In addition (as I have emphasized and will continue to

touch. Many books and manuals have been written about emphasize), no person is a pure sign. You may discover

lovemaking, but few pay attention to the unique knowledge when you cast your birth chart that your chart is heavily

of erogenous zones supplied by astrology. You can use as- weighted with planets in a particular sign other than your

trology to become a better, more sensitive lover. Sun sign. Therefore, the health aspects of that particular
sign will also apply to you.

1 6 8 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Still another factor to be considered is your Ascendant and thyroid problems (her Ascendant, Taurus, heavily
(or Rising sign), which in many ways contributes to your weighted with planets, rules the throat). If this woman reads
outward appearance and health. Your Ascending sign also all three sections—Libra, Aries, and Taurus—she will gain a
is a significant part of your health picture. greater understanding of her health issues and needs, and get

I have a woman client whose Sun sign is Libra, whose As- many more tips on care and exercise than if she reads only 
cendant is Taurus, and who has three planets in Taurus, one of Libra (her Sun sign).
them Saturn, a planet that often indicates areas of delicate I urge you to do the same. Later on, when you dis-
health. She has had a long history of lower back problems cover more about your chart, come back to this health
(her Sun sign, Libra, rules the lumbar region), headaches (her chapter and read further about the various signs that
Sun sign’s polarity is Aries, which rules the head), and throat make up your whole birth chart.

A s t r o l o g y  a n d  H e a lt h • 1 6 9



Aries
Part of the Body Ruled by Aries Diet and Health Tips for Aries
Aries rules the head and face. You can often spot an Because the Aries person is usually busy, active, and on

Aries person by his or her fine facial bone structure and a the go, he or she needs a well-balanced diet to maintain
shining, healthy head of hair. Sometimes there is a birth- good health and energy. The cell salt for the sign of Aries is
mark or mole on the face. The head is associated with potassium phosphate. This mineral builds brain cells and
thinking and perception, and natives of Aries tend to be replenishes the liver. Aries people usually expend so much
sharp, shrewd thinkers who use common sense. energy that their supply of this element is depleted and

Aries people are subject to headaches, including mi- must be replenished. Lack of potassium phosphate can
graines, head congestion, and sinus conditions. They are cause depression.
also prone toward minor injuries around the head and Foods rich in this mineral and therefore beneficial for
face, and should use protective headgear if taking part in Ariens to include in their diet are: tomatoes, beans (red
strenuous sports. They have a tendency to overwork them- kidney, navy, lima), brown rice, lentils, walnuts, olives,
selves and overtax their energy. They are prey to eyestrain onions, lettuce, cauliflower, cucumber, spinach, broccoli,
and to having problems with their teeth. brussels sprouts, veal, swordfish, flounder, figs, bananas,

When excited or frustrated, an Aries person will often dried uncooked apricots, pumpkin. A healthy diet should
get red in the face. If he or she has fever, it tends to reach a also include milk, which is good for teeth and bones.
high degree in a short period of time. However, Ariens Salt and liquor are two enemies that Aries people in
have strong recuperative powers and can fight off illness particular should avoid. Too much salt affects bones and
very rapidly. arteries; liquor overstimulates and reacts negatively on the

The glands that Aries rules are the adrenals. These are kidneys. Ariens should enjoy their meals in a quiet, serene
the glands that pump adrenaline into the bloodstream atmosphere, and never eat too quickly or under stressful
during times of stress and emergency. The Aries personal- conditions. They should drink plenty of water and get ade-
ity is known for its excitability and impetuosity, and one quate rest and relaxation.
reason may be that Mars, the planet associated with Aries,
rules the muscular system and the sex glands. Aries people Aries’s Erogenous Zone
are active, have excellent muscle coordination, and are The nerve endings in the face and head are especially
noted for their energetic sexuality. sensitive for Aries people, and gentle stroking of the hair

and scalp is something they respond to favorably.

1 7 0 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Aries woman loves to have her hair combed and played tips from the base of the hairline at the back of the neck
with. If you nibble Aries man’s ear, you will send him a all the way to the top of the skull. Your fingers should
definite sexual message. Other stimulations that people of move in small circles that vibrate the scalp. Use a light but
this sign respond to are featherlight strokes of the lips firm pressure. Repeat this pathway from neck to top of the
with your fingertips, and gentle kisses on their closed eye- crown until the entire head has been massaged. This tech-
lids. nique is also extremely useful for relieving the headaches

One technique that will relax Aries and put her or him due to nervous tension that Aries is subject to.
in the mood for love is to travel a path with your finger-

Taurus
Part of the Body Ruled by Taurus Taurus also rules the thyroid gland, which can cause se-

rious weight problems if it is malfunctioning. In addition,
The sign of Taurus rules the throat and neck, which in-

Taurus’s ruling planet Venus has an effect on the parathy-
cludes the vocal cords, palate, and tonsils. Generally, Taure-

roids, which control the calcium level in the body. Tradi-
ans have long, expressive necks, and women of this sign

tionally, Venus also rules the throat, kidneys, and lumbar
have lovely skin around the throat and collarbone area.

region. Being Venus-ruled, Taurus people sometimes suffer
Both sexes are known for their melodious speaking voices,

from back strain, especially because they tend to be seden-
and many are fine singers. Taurus’s taste buds are keen,

tary.
and Taureans thoroughly enjoy good food. A tendency to
put on weight grows more pronounced as they get older. Diet and Health Tips for Taurus

Taureans are particularly vulnerable to colds, coughs,
A diet low in starch, fat, and sugar is particularly im-

sore throats, laryngitis, swollen glands, stiff necks, and mi-
portant to Taureans because so many have to fight the bat-

nor injuries around the neck. When exposed to wintry
tle of the bulge. They are likely to eat fattening foods, to be

wind and cold weather, they should take care to bundle up
sluggish and indolent, and to dislike exercise. They may

with scarves and mufflers. Taurus people are subject to
suffer from puffy eyes and jowls, and their faces are apt to

tonsillitis and earaches. Colds seem to settle into their
get heavier as time goes by. Moderate exercise and good

throats and are not easily shaken off. When they get physi-
diet should be a strict discipline in every Taurean’s life.

cally tired or overtense, Taureans tend to get coughs and
Taurus’s cell salt is sulphate of sodium, a mineral that

stiff necks. Many go through life with a semipermanent
controls the amount of water in the system. It is present in

“crick” in their necks.

A s t r o l o g y  a n d  H e a lt h • 1 7 1



the liver, the pancreas, and the hormones of the kidneys. Taurus’s Erogenous Zone
An imbalance of this mineral in the body can cause bloat-

The throat and neck is Taurus’s sensitive area, and light
ing, symptoms of congestion around the thyroid gland,

touching, kissing, and fondling of this zone will quickly
and a feeling of being waterlogged. Foods that contain this

raise a Taurean’s sexual temperature. When fixing Taurus
mineral that Taureans need are asparagus, beets, spinach,

man’s tie, lightly glide your fingernails over his throat.
horseradish, Swiss chard, cauliflower, cucumber, onions,

Brush the back of Taurus woman’s neck in an affectionate
pumpkin, cranberries, and raw nuts. Celery can help them

gesture. Both men and women enjoy kisses and gentle
to clear their systems after overindulgence. Carbohydrates

bites on the back of the neck and the throat.
have a way of turning into fat in a Taurean’s body and

Here is a massage technique that will surely please: 1)
should be avoided, along with heavy, rich foods. To keep

While Taurus lies on his or her back, gently vibrate the
the thyroid functioning at its best, Taureans should eat

area under the earlobes with your fingertips, using little
food with natural iodine, such as fish and seafood. Other

circular motions. Trace a path down to the collarbone. Re-
foods that keep Taureans healthy are eggs, liver, kidney

peat until entire front of neck has been massaged. (Be very
beans, wheat germ, fresh fruit, and green salads. They

gentle around the windpipe.) 2) Taurus likes to lie on his
should drink plenty of water to keep their systems flushed

or her stomach while you trace vertical paths from the
out.

hairline to the top of the spine, using your fingertips to vi-
In general, Taurus people should coddle their throats,

brate the flesh and muscles.
try not to catch colds, wear warm head-and-neck covering

This technique will thoroughly relax Taurus and make
in winter, and keep foreign objects out of their ears. Walk-

him or her very receptive to lovemaking.
ing is wonderful exercise for them, and stretching exercises
for the neck are very beneficial.

1 7 2 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Gemini
Part of the Body Ruled by Gemini Diet and Health Tips for Gemini
The sign of Gemini rules the shoulders, arms, hands, For Geminis, relaxation is not just something that’s

and lungs. Natives of this sign are noted for their graceful nice if they can get it. It is essential to their well-being.
arms and beautifully shaped hands. They are dexterous Because they expend so much nervous energy, they should
and well coordinated and often excel at sports and danc- take time to unwind, relax, and soothe their jangled
ing. Geminis are often called jacks-of-all-trades, and are nerves. Coffee and stimulants make matters worse and
happiest when involved with many projects and a wide should be avoided. Herbal teas have a calming effect.
range of people. Gemini persons seem to look young Gemini people are inclined to eat on the run and are
longer. notorious junk-food addicts. To keep up their energy and

Unfortunately, Geminis are vulnerable to upper respi- high spirits, they must have a proper diet. Many Geminis
ratory infections, bronchitis, and asthma. In times of stress can’t tolerate large amounts of food at one time; eating
they may have difficulty breathing and suffer from either four mini-meals a day can be beneficial.
hyperventilation or an inability to draw in enough oxygen. The cell salt for Gemini is potassium chloride, which
They are apt to get sprains and fractures, particularly in builds fibrin in the blood, organs, and tissues of the body.
the bones in their shoulders, arms, and hands. They are A deficiency of this mineral leads to clots in the blood and
also afflicted by bumps, cuts, scratches, and bruises. circulatory problems. Potassium chloride also keeps the

Gemini rules the nerves, so natives of this sign are of- lungs and bronchial tubes unclogged. Foods high in this
ten excitable and high-strung. They vacillate between de- mineral are asparagus, green beans, tomatoes, celery, car-
spondency and euphoria, and seem to run on their nerves. rots, spinach, oranges, peaches, plums, apricots, and wild
The planet Mercury, which rules Gemini, has always been rice. Healthy nerve foods for Gemini include grapefruit,
associated with respiration, the brain, and the entire nerv- almonds, broiled fish and shellfish, grape juice, apples, and
ous system. It also governs the delicate links between the raisins. Lettuce and cauliflower help to combat bronchitis.
mind and the different parts of the body, so with Gemini Geminis need calcium to keep their bones healthy; milk,
people the state of mind has a great deal to do with the buttermilk, and cottage cheese are excellent sources.
state of their health. Anxiety and nervousness literally can Gemini people should protect their chests in cold, in-
make them sick. clement weather, and never smoke tobacco. Not only is to-

bacco smoking detrimental to the lungs, it causes circula-
tory problems in the arms and hands. Geminis should

A s t r o l o g y  a n d  H e a lt h • 1 7 3



practice deep-breathing or yoga exercises to help them re- arms, starting with his or her fingertips and moving up to
lax and breathe easier, and should play tennis and Ping- the armpits.
Pong to strengthen their arms. A massage technique that natives of this sign find espe-

cially stimulating is to grip Gemini’s wrist gently with both
Gemini’s Erogenous Zone hands. Using light but firm pressure, turn one hand in one
Gemini’s sensitive arms and hands are very receptive to direction and the other in the opposite direction in a gentle

erotic stimuli. Light kisses, touches, and fingertip brushes wringing motion. Do this all the way up Gemini’s arm and
of this area will send shivers of delight down a Gemini’s back again. Another way to relax Gemini is to travel the path
spine. Gemini women are fond of handkissers. Gemini of his or her inner arm, from the palm to the armpit, vibrat-
men respond to light stroking of their hands, especially ing the flesh and muscles by using a circular motion on the
the palms and inside of the fingers. As a prelude to love- skin with your fingertips.
making, try lightly kissing the inside of your Gemini’s

Cancer
Part of the Body Ruled by Cancer gallbladder upsets, gas pains, nausea, and gastritis. Their

health is not robust, particularly in childhood, and many

Cancer rules the breasts and the stomach. This part of suffer from upper respiratory infections such as bronchitis.

the anatomy has always symbolized nourishment and Born under a water sign, Cancerians will overindulge in

motherhood, and Cancer natives are characterized as pro- wine and alcohol, which they do not tolerate well. Drink-

tective and clinging. Cancer women often have beautiful ing alcohol aggravates their stomach problems, increases

bosoms, with soft creamy skin and a curving decolletage. weight, and causes fluid retention in body tissues.

Men of this sign have well-shaped chests and flat stom- The Moon, Cancer’s ruler, has dominion over the

achs. All of this changes as Cancerians grow older, for they breasts and the alimentary canal, heightening the suscepti-

are susceptible to gaining weight in later years. They find it bility of Cancerians in these areas.

very difficult to lose excess weight.
Diet and Health Tips for Cancer

Tension, anxiety, and emotional stress are the leading
causes of illness among Cancerians. They have delicate Food means security to Cancer people, and they turn

stomachs and digestive problems and are prone to ulcers, to pies, cakes, ice cream, and candy to make themselves

1 7 4 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



feel better when they are low in spirit. This is a self- serenity of mind. Walking in warm rain (under an um-
accelerating spiral, for excess sweets make their stomachs brella) or by the seashore is excellent, for the moist air
worse. Cancerians need to watch their diets very carefully soothes the lungs.
in order to keep their digestive systems healthy and their If Cancerians get sick, they recuperate faster in their
weight under control. own beds at home.

Cancer’s cell salt is calcium fluoride, which unites with
albumen and oil in the body’s system to keep elastic and Cancer’s Erogenous Zone
connective tissues healthy. It is also an important ingredi- Breasts are an erogenous zone for most people, but this
ent in tooth enamel, fingernails, bones, and the lens of the is especially true for Cancerians. Both men and women
eye. Deficiency of this mineral can cause varicose veins, re- born under this sign respond quickly to oral and manual
ceding gums, curvature of the spine, eye problems, and manipulation of the nipples. Soft caresses, gentle bites, and
cataracts. Food sources for calcium fluoride are egg yolks, kisses on this area heighten Cancer’s sensuality. Run your
whole-grain rye, yogurt, beets, watercress, fish, and oysters. hands over the hairs on Cancer man’s chest, just barely
Cancerians are prone to skin disorders when there is a lack touching them, and you will ignite his passions. A Cancer
of calcium in their diet. They should consume milk, woman derives pleasure from having her breasts touched
cheese, kale, lettuce, and tomatoes, which are high in cal- and kissed by a lover.
cium. Okra, which also contains calcium, is an aid in re- To massage the breast and chest area erotically, begin by
ducing stomach inflammations. Fresh vegetables, fresh placing two fingers on Cancer’s clavicle (the bone that juts
fruit, and lean protein are a daily must for the Cancerian. out at the bottom of the neck). Using featherlight pressure,
Starches, sugar, and salt should be avoided. The first two gently vibrate the flesh of each breast. Then stroke each nip-
cause constipation, and salt produces bloat. Cancer people ple with the tip of one finger. Using your finger pad, gently
should stay away from spicy, highly seasoned food and stroke the pink area around the nipple (the areola). Finally,
should forgo hot pepper sauce and horseradish. stroke each breast with your fingernails, just barely making

Cancerians should always have meals in pleasant sur- contact with the flesh.
roundings—no bickering or heated discussions at the din- This massage technique will create urgent sensations of
ner table. Taking a walk after a meal aids digestion and sexual desire in any Cancer woman or man.

A s t r o l o g y  a n d  H e a lt h • 1 7 5



Leo
Part of the Body Ruled by Leo As a rule, Leos live healthy lives. However, they must learn

to slow down in later years to avoid the risk of heart at-

The sign of Leo rules the spine, the back, and the heart. tack.

The heart is associated with warm emotions, the back with
Diet and Health Tips for Leo

courage. Leo people display these qualities. They are open
personalities who give wholeheartedly of themselves to Leo people enjoy the good life, and eating well is part

others and live life to the fullest. Leos have robust constitu- of this. They like rich food and fine wine. Fortunately

tions, supple spines, and good coordination. They are usu- young Leos have strong stomachs and good circulation,

ally excellent dancers and athletes. and keep in shape because they are active. However, time

Leos have a great need to excel in what they do, and of- does catch up with them, and Leos must learn to eat cor-

ten push themselves so hard that they suffer strain from rectly and cut down on fatty foods.

overexertion and nerves. Their upper back tires more eas- Leo’s cell salt is magnesium phosphate, which keeps the

ily than other parts of their bodies. They are also subject to motor nerves in top functioning order and is also neces-

pains and pressure around the heart. When startled a Leo’s sary to the formation of the skeletal structure. It forms

heart will seem to jump into his or her throat. They can blood albumen, maintains the fluidity of the blood, and

usually feel their pulses beat inside their heads. Heart activates the digestive enzymes. Foods that contain this ele-

problems may crop up later in life; however, Leos are ment so important to Leos are whole wheat and rye prod-

noted for their longevity. ucts, almonds, walnuts, sunflower seeds, figs, lemons, ap-

Leo’s ruler, the Sun, has always been associated with the ples, peaches, coconut, rice, seafood, beets, asparagus,

heart, back, and spinal column. It also influences the romaine, and egg yolk. Foods that aid the circulation and

spleen and the entire body’s vitality. In more recent times, have blood-making properties include beef, lamb, poultry,

astrologers have come to believe that it rules the thymus, liver, fresh fruit, salad greens, cheese, whole milk, and yo-

an endocrine gland that secretes hormones necessary for gurt. Foods rich in iron, such as spinach, raisins, and dates,

growth during the early years of childhood. Scientific stud- are recommended for Leo. Plums, pears, and oranges re-

ies connect the thymus with the immunization of the body duce heart strain.

against bacteria. Leo people should take care of their backs by doing

Thus, the sign of Leo is characterized by growth, vital- simple strengthening exercises. They must learn how to

ity, and good health. Leo people are not inclined to be bend and lift, and never lift anything too heavy. They ben-

sickly, and when they are ill they bounce back very quickly. efit from developing good posture, getting enough rest and

1 7 6 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



relaxation, and enjoying short periods of sunbathing. There are as many different kinds of back massages as
Leos usually have thick shining hair, somewhat like there are masseurs, for this is an area in which tensions

manes. If they keep it clean, healthy, and conditioned, it seem to gather. This technique will relax and soothe a Leo:
should last them a lifetime. Place the heels of your hands on Leo’s upper back with

your thumbs resting directly over the spine. Using a circu-
Leo’s Erogenous Zone lar vibrating motion, describe six-inch circles with the
Sweeping caresses over the back and spine sexually heels of your hands. Trace a path from the shoulder blades

stimulate and excite Leo. An easy and enjoyable prelimi- down to the small of the back. Return. Repeat until the en-
nary is to sponge Leo’s back in the bath with a loofah tire back has been massaged.
sponge. Work gently down along the spine, pausing in the If you find this relaxes Leo so much that he or she falls
small of the back, then circle out to the sides and the ribs. asleep, erotically stimulate the back. Lightly draw long
Sponge until Leo’s skin is rosy. In the bedroom, while Leo lines from shoulder to buttocks with your fingertip or fin-
lies on his or her stomach, shake talcum powder over the gernail just barely touching flesh. Stroke down into the
back (still tingling from the bath). Using your hands or a cleft between the buttocks. Leo will wake up fast.
soft bristle brush, smooth the powder into the skin, paying
particular attention to the spine and small of the back.
Your Leo will be more than ready for love.

A s t r o l o g y  a n d  H e a lt h • 1 7 7



Virgo
Part of the Body Ruled by Virgo Virgo’s cell salt is potassium sulphate, which regulates

oil in the body, carries oxygen to cells, and is essential to
The sign of Virgo rules the nervous system and the in-

muscle contraction. This mineral keeps the skin pores un-
testines. The intestines assimilate food into the body. By

clogged and ventilated. Lack of potassium sulphate in the
the same token, Virgoans assimilate knowledge and turn it

diet causes dandruff, hair loss, eczema, acne, and dry, flaky
into practical use. They have delicate and finely tuned

skin and hair. A deficiency also leads to extreme fatigue
nervous systems, which makes them intuitive and discrim-

and constipation. Foods high in this mineral that Virgoans
inating.

need are green leafy vegetables (endive, chicory, romaine),
As with Cancer, nervous tension, anxiety, and emo-

whole wheat and whole-grain breads, wheat germ oil, oats,
tional stress are Virgo’s worst enemies. People of this sign

almonds, cheese, oranges, bananas, lemons, lean beef, and
can literally worry themselves sick. When things go wrong

lamb. Healthy foods that are easy to digest are corn bread,
they have a tendency to turn the trouble in onto them-

yogurt, brown rice, eggs, and cottage cheese. Melons, ap-
selves, and the problem is instantly reflected in a physical

ples, pears, and papaya are particularly good for Virgoans,
ailment, usually intestinal.

and lemon juice in the diet will ease skin eruptions and
Virgoans have fussy digestive systems, and suffer from

dandruff. Honey should be used as a sweetener instead of
indigestion, gas pains, ulcers, liver upsets, colitis, and

sugar. Herb teas soothe upset stomachs. Virgoans love
bowel problems. In addition, they are often troubled by

chocolate, which unfortunately does not love them; it
skin eruptions, again due to nerves. Virgoans worry about

causes upsets of the skin and digestive system. They do not
their health; they tend to be hypochondriacs.

tolerate drugs well, and medicine should be taken only un-
Virgo’s ruling planet Mercury has dominion over the

der a doctor’s supervision.
brain and the nervous system. It also controls the links be-

Sunshine (in moderate amounts), mild exercise, and
tween the mind and the functions of the body. This inten-

periods of relaxation are important for Virgo. It’s hard not
sifies Virgo’s proclivity for turning mental tension and up-

to worry when one is a worrier, but it helps to get away
sets into illness of the body.

from it all and think about something else.

Diet and Health Tips for Virgo
Virgo’s Erogenous Zone

Virgoans have to coddle their sensitive digestive sys-
As a prelude to love, a playful tête-à-tête in the bath is

tems. A proper diet is essential to good health and to keep-
just the thing to please Virgo. One reason: Virgo is very at-

ing up energy. In addition, food should not be highly sea-
tracted to cleanliness. While in the bath, gently lave Virgo’s

soned, spicy, laden with sauces or gravies, or fried.

1 7 8 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



stomach area with a sponge, soap, and warm water. For the top of the legs. Use your fingertips and cover the entire
Virgoans, the entire stomach area is responsive to erotic area. 2) Using a featherlight touch, stroke long lines from
touching, kissing, and stroking. They also enjoy the feeling the navel to the genitals with your fingertip. Do the same
of a spray of warm water over this area. A handheld thing using just fingernails and scarcely touching flesh. 3)
shower nozzle will do the trick nicely. Moving in a large circle, stroke the stomach area with your

In bed it is very easy to arouse Virgo sexually with this fingertips, describing smaller and smaller circles until you
massage: 1) Begin by slowly and gently stroking the ab- are at the rim of the navel.
domen, starting just under the chest and going down to By this time Virgo is your slave.

Libra
Part of the Body Ruled by Libra In many ways, their health is influenced by their sur-

roundings and relationships. Any disturbance, dissension,
The sign of Libra rules the kidneys, lumbar region

or disagreement makes Librans wretchedly unhappy and
(which includes the lower spine and back), and the but-

undermines their ability to work or function.
tocks. Libra women tend to have graceful lower spines and
curvaceous buttocks, and Libra men have well-shaped, Diet and Health Tips for Libra
muscular backs. As a rule, natives of this sign enjoy good

Balance is the key to Libra’s health and well-being—
health, although sometimes in adolescence it is delicate

balanced diet, balance of work and recreation, and bal-
and then balances out in adulthood.

anced relationships with other people.
Venus, the planet that rules Libra, holds sway over skin,

Libra’s cell salt is sodium phosphate, which equalizes
hair, and veins, as well as the throat, kidneys, and lumbar

the balance of acids and alkalis in the body and rids the
region. Librans are known for their fine (though sensitive)

body of waste material. It’s important for Librans to keep a
skin, pleasing features, and good bone structure. When

proper balance between acids and alkali in the body, for
called upon, their energy level can keep up with the best,

too much acidity will interfere with proper kidney func-
although they are usually slow starters in the morning.

tion. The skin is a good indicator of whether more sodium
Librans are prone toward weakness in the lower back,

phosphate is needed in the diet: Skin tends to get yellowish
and this is the first place in the body to suffer when Li-

and sallow when there is a deficiency. Good food sources
brans overexert themselves. They also are predisposed to-

for this mineral are strawberries, apples, raisins, almonds,
ward kidney ailments and skin breakouts. In winter they

asparagus, peas, corn, carrots, spinach, beets, radishes,
may be afflicted with cold hands and feet because of poor

tomatoes, wheat, brown rice, and oatmeal. Librans func-
circulation.

A s t r o l o g y  a n d  H e a lt h • 1 7 9



tion best with a high-protein diet that is low in fat, sugar, dancing or strolling together. The small of the back and
and acid-producing foods. They should eat lots of broiled the buttocks are very sensitive. When the relationship has
fish, seafood, and poultry (not too much beef or pork), progressed to the point where you are both in the bath or
low-fat cheeses, yogurt, plenty of fresh fruits and vegeta- shower together, pay particular attention with a sponge or
bles, salad greens, and whole-grain breads. washcloth to Libra’s lower back and buttocks. Gently

Librans’s sensitive skins immediately show the effect of sponge this area and lave with warm water until the skin is
lack of sleep, rich food, and too much champagne. They rosy.
should drink plenty of water to keep their systems flushed Both male and female of this sign are very partial to
out and free of toxins, and should avoid alcohol and car- having their buttocks rubbed, fondled, patted, and gently
bonated drinks, which are bad for the kidneys. They pinched. An erotic massage technique that is sure to put
should also use caution when trying new skin prepara- Libra into the mood for love is: 1) With Libra lying face-
tions, many of which cause the skin to break out. Mild ex- down, begin the massage by gently clutching one buttock
ercise, especially back exercises, will strengthen a weak in each hand and moving them in a circular motion. 2)
lower back and keep the body supple. Good posture will With fingertips barely touching flesh, stroke buttocks up
free Librans from vague aches and pains in the back. and down with featherlight touches. 3) Do the same, using

In general, Librans should try to surround themselves just fingernails. 4) Using four fingers of each hand, place
with beautiful things, pleasant music, and harmonious fingertips lightly on the buttocks, one finger at a time.
people. This is good advice for everyone, but emphatically Move quickly and lightly so that all the fingertips touch
important for Librans. the skin in rapid succession. Position hands so that the

fingertips will land in the cleft between the buttocks.
Libra’s Erogenous Zone By now Libra will be sexually aroused.
If you want to get on more intimate terms with Libra,

try unobtrusively caressing his or her lower back when

1 8 0 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Scorpio
Part of the Body Ruled by Scorpio been said that Scorpios look old when they are young, and

young when they are old.

The sign of Scorpio rules the sexual organs. Symboli-
Diet and Health Tips for Scorpio

cally, this part of the anatomy represents life-giving force,
and Scorpio people are renowned for their fund of energy A healthful diet is important for Scorpio people in or-

and imagination. They have a reputation for being highly der to keep up their energy and a positive outlook on life.

sexed, passionate, and possessive, the kind who do nothing When problems strike they have a tendency to overindulge

halfway. A healthy sex life is essential to their well-being. in alcohol and forget about food, which in turn makes

Scorpio people even take out their anger in sexual ways; them more unhappy, listless, and ill.

they use or withhold sex as a weapon. Sexual frustration or Scorpios have a problem handling liquor. Of all the

suppression of their intense feelings results in erratic and signs in the zodiac, alcohol has the worst and most imme-

cruel behavior on their part. diate effects on Scorpio’s looks and skin. It is toxic for their

Natives of this sign are prone to problems and infec- system, it intensifies their already volatile emotions, and

tions of the sex organs. Skin eruptions on the genitals, cys- most Scorpios don’t know how to say no to a second

titis and diseases of the urinary tract, and venereal infec- drink.

tions are ailments to which Scorpios are most susceptible. Scorpio’s cell salt is calcium sulphate, which is the

In addition, Scorpio people are subject to ill health prime factor in the repair of tissues and resistance to infec-

brought on by emotional difficulties. Their intense natures tious diseases. The nose, mouth, throat, esophagus, repro-

brood and seethe over insults and injuries (often imag- ductive organs, and intestinal pathways need this mineral

ined). They seem unable to rest and relax, and as a result for healthy functioning. A deficiency opens the way to

may suffer from exhaustion. colds and sinus infections that hang on forever, skin erup-

The sign of Scorpio is ruled by the planet Pluto, which tions that do not heal, and infertility. Foods rich in cal-

governs the formation of cells and the reproductive func- cium sulphate that Scorpios should include in their diet

tion of the body. Thus, Scorpio’s link with sex and regener- are asparagus, kale, cauliflower, radishes, onions, parsnips,

ative forces is strengthened. As a rule, Scorpios have watercress, tomatoes, figs, prunes, black cherries, and co-

strong, voluptuous bodies and excellent recuperative pow- conuts. Scorpios need calcium foods such as milk, cheese,

ers—though some astrologers have remarked on the fact yogurt, and cottage cheese. They should concentrate on a

that more people born under Scorpio come to a violent diet high in protein, fresh fruits and vegetables, and whole-

and unexpected end than do natives of other signs. It’s grain breads. The following are particularly good for Scor-

A s t r o l o g y  a n d  H e a lt h • 1 8 1



pio: fish and seafood, green salads, beets, escarole, ro- There is almost no wrong way to touch and fondle
maine, brussels sprouts, artichokes, lentils, wheat germ, al- Scorpio’s genitals, unless you are inflicting pain. The fol-
monds, walnuts, citrus fruit, berries, apples, bananas, and lowing technique of erotic touching is one good way to
pineapples. Scorpios should not eat large meals, and the begin sexual arousal: Using fingertips or fingernails, stroke
evening meal should be light. Bottled spring water is often very lightly starting at one knee, up one thigh across the
better for them to drink than regular tap water. genitals, and down the other thigh to just short of the

In general, Scorpio people need rest and recreation, ex- other knee. Repeat in the opposite direction, but this time
ercise, and peaceful surroundings. Born under a water shorten the stroke by a few inches. Continue making each
sign, they benefit from sea travel, vacations at the stroke shorter and shorter until you are just inches away
seashore, and long soaks in warm baths. from the genitals.

Since much of the excitement in erotic touching
Scorpio’s Erogenous Zone comes from anticipation, any manual or oral stimulation
The genitals are everyone’s erogenous zone, but for of the genitals should be done very slowly, and you

Scorpio the genitals are where sexual energy is exclusively should not always follow through as expected. “Teasing”
focused and concentrated. Scorpio starts off with intense with your fingertips can spur Scorpio on to the sexual
sexual feelings, and genital contact adds fuel to the fire. heights.
Even a light fingering of Scorpio’s genital area will turn
him or her into a volcano of passion.

1 8 2 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Sagittarius
Part of the Body Ruled by Sagittarius growth. Sagittarians tend to have an active, sensitive liver

that instantly suffers from overuse of alcohol. They are also

The sign of Sagittarius rules the hips, the thighs, and susceptible to hepatitis.

the liver. In human anatomy the hips and thighs represent With a minimum amount of care, however, they enjoy

locomotion and volition, and it should not be surprising long, healthy lives. There are more octogenarians who were

that most Sagittarians are active people who love freedom, born under Sagittarius than under any other sign.

fresh air, sunshine, and the great outdoors. Physical activ-
Diet and Health Tips for Sagittarius

ity is a must; they will stagnate and become ill if they don’t
get enough exercise. Proper diet is important for on-the-go Sagittarians. A

Both men and women tend to have long, well-shaped poor diet heavy in fats, starches, and alcohol places an ex-

legs. Sagittarians are graceful, coordinated, and well-devel- tra burden on Sagittarius’s sensitive liver and makes it

oped and are often described as having a buoyant walk. In- harder for them to sustain a high energy level.

deed, walking is their favorite form of relaxation and exer- Sagittarius’s cell salt is silica, which strengthens the

cise. nervous system, keeps the connective brain tissue healthy,

Though usually lean and slender in their early years, and prevents numbness in fingers, legs, and feet. Defi-

they have a tendency to put on weight as they get older. In ciency of this mineral results in lank hair, dull skin, and

Sagittarian women the weight unfortunately seems to set- sores and receding of the gums. Best sources for the silica

tle on the hips and thighs. that Sagittarians need are the skins of fruits and vegetables,

Sagittarians are likely to incur injuries and ailments of raw salads, green peppers, figs, prunes, strawberries, pears,

the hips and thighs. The upper legs are the first part of the apples, potatoes, oats, the husks of grains, whole-grain ce-

body to tire and weaken when Sagittarians are under reals, and egg yolk. Foods that particularly do not agree

strain. They often have chronic aches in the hips and with Sagittarius are fats, gravies, cream, butter, candy, and

thighs, and are very susceptible to fractures, sprains, and chocolate. They should go very easy on alcoholic bever-

bruising in this area. They are vulnerable to sciatica, gout, ages, to avoid damage not only to the liver but also to the

hip disease, and sometimes lameness. skin, which coarsens and ages under the effects of liquor.

Sagittarius’s ruling planet Jupiter governs the liver. In To keep their weight at optimum level Sagittarians should

addition, recent astrologers have traced Jupiter’s influence eat a high-protein diet, with lots of broiled poultry and

on the pituitary gland. The pituitary, known as the “master fish, fresh vegetables and fruit (such as brussels sprouts,

gland,” regulates hormone production and physical beets, tomatoes, asparagus, plums, cherries, oranges, and

A s t r o l o g y  a n d  H e a lt h • 1 8 3



lemons), eggs, skim milk, yogurt, brown rice, and whole places. Both male and female enjoy kisses, nibbles and del-
wheat. icate fingering along the inside of the thighs and around

Sagittarius people need constant mental stimulation, the hips.
which can lead them to overwork and overplay. More than Try giving Sagittarius a rubdown of the upper legs
most people, Sagittarians have to have recreation and ex- with warm body oil. He or she is sure to find it sexually
ercise, but moderation is the keyword. They should avoid arousing. Use circular motions on the hips and vertical
the blistering effects of sun and wind, for their skin is apt strokes on the thighs.
to be quite thin and tender. Another erotic massage technique is to begin stroking

Other good tips: they should drink lots of pure water, the outside of Sagittarius’s thighs with four fingers while
avoid smoking tobacco (which constricts blood vessels), exploring the inside of the thighs with your thumbs.
eat four mini-meals a day rather than three large ones, Stroke upward toward the genitals. Then stroke the inside
and be careful when walking, riding, or participating in of the thighs with the palm of your hand. Switch to using
sports. Injuries to the hips and thighs are common among fingertips or fingernails and just barely touch the skin.
people born under this sign. Stroke upward along the inner thigh so that your finger-

In general, Sagittarians are healthy and optimistic, re- tips touch the thighs and your knuckles brush against the
cuperate quickly from illness, and keep their good looks genitals.
and sparkling smiles well into old age. By this time erotic sensations are shooting up the spine

of your Sagittarius.
Sagittarius’s Errogenous Zone
The hips and thighs are special erotic areas for Sagit-

tarians. They like to be touched and caressed in these

1 8 4 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



Capricorn
Part of the Body Ruled by Capricorn Diet and Health Tips for Capricorn
The sign of Capricorn rules the bones, joints, knees, A diet high in protein and calcium is a must for Capri-

and teeth. Capricorns are known for their beautiful bone corn in order to keep the bones, skin, and teeth in prime
structure and stately carriage. Capricorn women often condition. Capricorns tend to do things in excess. They
have a striking angular beauty, especially in their facial overwork, skip meals, then eat too much at one time. They
bones, which makes them very photogenic. Both men and should go easy on the highly seasoned and spicy food they
women have strong constitutions, vigorous and enduring, are fond of, for it causes intestinal upsets. Gloomy Capri-
capable of withstanding stress and illness. Their health corns often seek solace in alcohol, which they do not han-
seems to get better as they get older. Along with Leo and dle well.
Sagittarius, Capricorn is noted for its longevity. Capricorn’s cell salt is calcium phosphate, which is the

Capricorn’s bones, joints, and knees, however, are vul- most important element in bone formation and composi-
nerable to accidents, fractures, bumps, bruises, and cuts. tion of the skeleton. Lack of calcium phosphate causes
The knees tire more easily than other parts of the body. rickets, misshapen bones, spinal curvature, tooth disorders,
Many Capricorns complain of a bothersome trick knee and pains in the joints. Foods rich in this mineral that
and of bone aches throughout the body. Chief dangers to Capricorns need are oranges, lemons, figs, celery, cabbage,
Capricorn are rheumatism, arthritis, neuralgia, stiff joints, kale, dandelion greens, spinach, broccoli, corn, peas, pota-
and orthopedic problems. toes, walnuts, almonds, whole wheat, oats, and brown rice.

Capricorn’s ruling planet Saturn holds sway over the Capricorns should include in their diet every day a fresh
gallbladder, spleen, bones, skin, and teeth. Capricorns usu- raw salad, fresh fruits and vegetables, lean protein, fish,
ally have good-looking teeth, but they require a great deal eggs, and whole-grain breads. They need lots of calcium
of care and dentistry. The skin tends to be dry and sensi- foods, such as cheese, buttermilk, and yogurt. Capricorns
tive. tend to get into a rut about food likes and dislikes, and of-

Capricorn people are inclined to be introspective, ten eat the same things every day. They should try to vary
moody, and depressed. Ill health and indefinable aches and their diet with different vegetables, fruit, meat, and fish.
pains can be brought on by their negative emotions. Worry They are bothered by dry, itchy skin, especially in win-
drains their energy and spirits. Capricorns tend to have tertime. Oils from apricots, sesame, and almond are sooth-
trouble with the demon drink. ing and moisturizing, and drinking plenty of water will

keep the skin clear and plump. Eating chocolate and re-

A s t r o l o g y  a n d  H e a lt h • 1 8 5



fined sugar is bad for Capricorn’s skin. They should never you gently brush, stroke, fondle, or kiss the area around
overdo when sunbathing, for their skin will quickly take the knees.
on the patina of old cracked leather. Either male or female Capricorn will be sexually stim-

Other tips for Capricorn: They should keep warm and ulated by a sensual massage that starts in the small of the
wrapped up in cold, damp weather. If they surround lower back. Use your fingertips or fingernails, and stroke
themselves with color, flowers, soothing music, and pleas- lightly, just touching the skin. Make long strokes from the
ant people, their mood should lighten. They should strive lower back, down along the buttocks, the backs of the
for good posture, sit up straight, and loosen their gait. thighs, and on to the backs of the knees. Return the same
Warm baths, moderate exercise, and long walks in the way, but this time shorten the stroke. Keep shortening
country are very relaxing for Capricorn. your featherlight strokes until they are concentrated

around the back of the knees. A variation would be to use
Capricorn’s Erogenous Zone your tongue and lips in slow short circles on the skin
The special erotic area for Capricorn is the knees. around the knees.

Capricorn’s slumbering passions are instantly awakened if The effect on Capricorn is volcanic!

Aquarius
Part of the Body Ruled by Aquarious The lower part of the legs and ankles is an area that is

very susceptible for Aquarians. At times, their ankles swell

The sign of Aquarius rules the circulatory system and and cause problems. They are prone to varicose veins and

the shins, calves, and ankles. The lower leg represents ac- cramps in the lower legs. Accidents, cuts, bruises, sprains,

tive locomotion, and Aquarius people are characterized as and fractures are suffered more frequently on the shins,

progressive and forward-thinking. They are generally calves, and ankles than on other parts of the body. They

strong and healthy, with good coordination, well-shaped suffer circulatory problems, hardening of the arteries, ane-

legs, and slender ankles. They tend to be very active men- mia, and low blood pressure. Cold weather is particularly

tally, more than they are physically, and there is a slight hard on Aquarians, and they are prone to frostbite.

tendency to put on weight if they are not careful. Often Uranus, Aquarius’s ruling planet, governs the circula-

their health will take an unexpected sudden turn for the tory system and the pineal gland. The exact purpose and

worse, and just as quickly reverse again. Their illnesses function of the pineal gland, which is found at the base of

come on without apparent reason. the skull, remains unknown. The ancients called it the

1 8 6 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



“seat of the soul,” and thought it was what remained of Fresh air and exercise are very important for Aquarians
man’s “third eye.” The sign of Aquarius is associated with in order to relieve tension and rev up energy. They should
the concept of unusual and mystical knowledge. take great care, however, when doing anything that might

injure the calves and ankles. Brisk walks are excellent, for
Diet and Health Tips for Aquarius that gets circulation going in the legs. Aquarians should
Aquarians need a healthy diet to maintain vitality and not run even when they are in a hurry; they are likely to

to keep their weight at the perfect level. Aquarius people trip and fall. Puffiness in the legs and ankles can be coun-
like to immerse themselves in projects and activities, and teracted by elevating the legs, and an afternoon nap keeps
that leaves little time for balanced meals. They are inveter- up vitality. They should cut down on coffee, which makes
ate snackers, and often eat the wrong things while on the them nervous.
run. Aquarians are apt to get gray hair fairly early in life;

Aquarius’s cell salt is sodium chloride, which is com- they shouldn’t worry that this means the onset of prema-
mon table salt. This does not mean, however, that Aquari- ture old age!
ans should heavily salt the food they eat. That will only
lead to bloating, kidney disorders, hardening of the arter- Aquarius’s Erogenous Zone
ies, and problems with sluggish circulation. On the other The sensitive area is the calves and ankles. Touching,
hand, lack of sodium chloride in the blood results in dehy- rubbing, fondling, or kissing this part of the anatomy will
dration. Aquarians need to absorb sodium chloride natu- significantly arouse Aquarius’s sexual desire.
rally, by eating the right foods. These include ocean fish, Absentmindedly caress the ankle, moving up to the
lobster, tuna, clams, oysters, spinach, radishes, celery, cab- calf, and see how quickly Aquarius responds. Aquarians
bage, lettuce, corn, romaine, squash, lentils, almonds, love having their lower legs and ankles laved with a sponge
pecans, walnuts, apples, peaches, pears, lemons, and or- while reclining in a bath.
anges. Aquarians should follow a diet that limits fattening As a preliminary move to lovemaking, give Aquarius an
foods and is high in protein, fresh fruits and vegetables, erotic massage. Use your fingertips or fingernails, and
and whole-grain breads. Fruits high in vitamin C will keep stroke ever so gently. Begin at the ankles, and slowly de-
the veins in their legs healthy. Other foods that are very scribe circles around the ankle bone. Make long strokes up
good for Aquarians are chicken, veal, beets, broccoli, car- the calves until you reach the knees. The area in back of
rots, peppers, tomatoes, strawberries, pineapple, pome- the calves is particularly sensitive.
granates, figs, dates, brown rice, buckwheat, whole wheat, While making love, any position that allows contact
yogurt, and natural cheeses. with the calf and the ankle will increase Aquarius’s sexual

satisfaction.

A s t r o l o g y  a n d  H e a lt h • 1 8 7



Pisces
Part of the Body Ruled by Pisces Diet and Health Tips for Pisces
The sign of Pisces rules the feet and toes and the mu- Pisceans are attracted to glamorous living, which often

cous membranes. Pisceans are noted for their graceful, includes overindulging in eating and drinking and keeping
well-shaped feet, and many become excellent dancers. Their late hours. The key to their good health is to establish
senses of taste and smell are exceptionally acute. In general, moderate habits. With a minimum of care—a well-bal-
health is not robust in Pisces. Natives of this sign tend to anced diet, moderate exercise, rest—Pisceans can feel
have delicate constitutions that do not easily fight off dis- younger than they are and keep their good looks well into
ease. They are vulnerable to colds, sinus trouble, and water old age.
retention in the body. Pisceans have sensitive, emotional Pisces’s cell salt is ferrum phosphate, which is iron. Iron
personalities, and illness is frequently emotionally based. is needed for the manufacture of hemoglobin in the

The feet tend to be a source of trouble for Pisces peo- bloodstream. Hemoglobin is the essential element in the
ple. They find it difficult to do work that requires long red blood cell and is responsible for the transport of oxy-
hours of standing. Many suffer from corns and bunions. gen from the lungs to other body cells. Lack of iron in the
Ill-fitting shoes are particularly troublesome, for many Pis- system leads to anemia, low blood pressure, inflamma-
ceans cannot seem to find shoes that will properly fit their tions, glandular problems, and heart irregularities.
sensitive feet. They usually kick off their shoes at the first Foods rich in iron that Pisceans should include in their
opportunity and walk in slippers or barefooted. Pisceans diet are liver, lean beef, lamb, egg yolks, oysters, kidneys,
are prone to athlete’s foot and other fungus infections. whole-grain cereals, barley, dried beans, beet tops, spinach,
Gout often afflicts the toes. Bruised, stubbed, or broken onions, lettuce, raisins, dates, prunes, apricots, peaches,
toes are also common injuries to Pisceans. grapes, apples, lemons, and oranges. Pisceans function best

Neptune, the planet that rules Pisces, acts on the gen- with a high-protein diet that is low in fat and sugar. Lean
eral nervous system and specifically on the thalamus. The broiled meat, chicken and fish, natural cheeses, yogurt, and
thalamus is the part of the brain that transmits stimuli to nuts are excellent sources of protein. They should cut
and from the sensory organs. down on table salt, for this makes bloat (something Pis-

Pisces people are especially sensitive to stimuli around ceans are quite prone to). Coffee overstimulates Pisces and
them. They are very impressionable, and often involved in should be cut down to a bare minimum.
creative work, music, art, and drama. Unfortunately, they Pisceans are particularly susceptible to the effects of al-
easily fall prey to the influence of alcohol and drugs. cohol, which will age a native of this sign quicker than one

1 8 8 • S u n  S i g n  A s t r o l o g y



of any other in the zodiac. Caution: Drugs and medicine laxation and to increase sexual desire. Here is a relaxing
should be taken by Pisceans only under the supervision of technique: 1) Grasp all five toes and bend them toward
a doctor. and then away from the ankle. Repeat ten times. 2) Using

Pisces people need lots of rest to keep up vitality, thumbs and fingers, knead and rub the soles of the feet.
which tends to be low. Wonderful exercises are swimming Knead the top of the foot, using lighter pressure. 3) Gently
and dancing; both will keep them fit and glowing. They pinch and knead the Achilles tendon. 4) Grasp the foot
should take extra care of their feet and wear comfortable, with both hands and gently wring, starting near the toes
well-fitting shoes. A warm footbath before going to bed and working up to the ankle.
will aid relaxation and a good night’s sleep. They should The best beginning to an erotic massage is a foot soak
never walk around with wet feet or sit on the beach in a in warm, scented water. Follow up with an application of
wet bathing suit. skin lotion all over the feet and toes, paying special atten-

tion to the soles of the feet and to the skin between the
Pisces’s Erogenous Zone toes. Then, using just fingertips or fingernails, gently caress
The feet are the special area for Pisces that is sensitive the heel and arch. At the ankle bone, use a featherlight cir-

to erotic touch. The practice of reflexology is based on a cular motion with your fingertips. Move around to the top
school of thought that maintains that the foot represents of the foot and then down to the toes. If you rub Pisces’s
the body in microcosm—that different parts of the foot toes between the pads of your fingers, you will send a very
correspond to various parts of the body. Thus, massaging, definite sexual message.
touching, and treating different parts of the foot can stim- Pisceans often use their feet to enhance the act of love.
ulate and treat the whole body. If this theory is valid, it Pisces woman will gently masturbate her lover using the
should be particularly true for Pisces. balls of her feet. Male Pisces gets added stimulation by

You can use massage on Pisces’s feet both to induce re- rubbing his feet over the vaginal area.

A s t r o l o g y  a n d  H e a lt h • 1 8 9






8
Part Two

LESS WELL-KNOWN 
INFLUENCES







5

M O O N  S I G N S
Everyone is a moon and has a dark side 

That he never shows to anyone.
Sybil  Leek

he p osition of the Mo on in your horoscope is second only in importance to the position of the

TSun. The Sun sign is the part of you that is most apparent on the surface; it is what others see. The Moon
sign is the part of you that you see.

In astrology the Moon stands for emotions, instincts, the unconscious. Whereas the Sun represents your will,
the Moon represents your instinctive reactions. Evangeline Adams, the most famous astrologer of the early
twentieth century, wrote that the Sun signifies your individuality and the Moon signifies your personality. Other
astrologers define the Sun’s influence as a vital force and the Moon as an unconscious force. In essence, the
Moon represents the side of you that reacts before you have time to think.

The distinction in astrology between the influence of the Sun and the Moon is a forerunner of Sigmund
Freud’s theory of the ego and the id in human personality. According to Freud, the ego is a person’s conscious-
ness (symbolized in astrology by the Sun), and the id represents a person’s instinct (the Moon).

In many ways your Moon personality is the one you keep hidden. Human beings tend to disapprove of in-
stinctive behavior. We call it uncivilized, primitive, animalistic. Thus, in certain respects, your Moon personality
is a part of yourself that you find disturbing. It is your inner core, which feels hate and jealousy, broods and is
fearful, and has fantasies that you often deny even to yourself.

Of course, this is not the complete picture of the Moon’s influence on your personality. It is also your Moon
side that can spontaneously feel and express joy and pleasure, the side that reacts to emotional stimuli. It is the
part of you that enjoys the little sensualities of life—the perfumed aroma of flowers, the smell of the grass after
it rains, the delight of a long, hot shower. The Moon is inextricably linked to what might be called your reaction

1 9 3



to your environment, for the Moon has rulership over the own films made totally outside the studio system. Bette
five senses—sight, hearing, taste, smell, and touch. Midler began her career doing over-the-edge comedy rou-

In astrology, the meaning of the Moon can become tines in the bathhouses of lower Manhattan, playing to
very esoteric. The Moon also stands for infancy, child- mostly homosexual audiences. She has gone on to major
hood, your dreams, memory, and your past. All these stardom in films, stage, and television, as a comedian,
words might be summed up as your inner psyche. As the singer, and dramatic actress—always playing someone a
astrologer Landis Knight Green says, “The Moon is the bit outrageous, wacky, and rule-bending. Both entertain-
threshold of the subconscious.” Often your Moon person- ers have had long careers in which they broke free of
ality is expressed in dreams—both the daydreams you boundaries and expressed their forward-thinking ideas
brush aside as you go on with your daily responsibilities through a sense of humor.
and the sleeping dreams that haunt your waking hours. Let’s look further: Woody Allen has his Moon in

Because the Moon holds dominion over the emotional Aquarius. He displays the rebellious attitude of the free-
sphere, it influences your receptivity to others and also thinking Aquarius-Moon person who lives life his own
how others feel about you. Obviously, therefore, the Moon way. In his politics, creative work, and private life he is
is an extremely important factor in love relationships. A controversial, radical, and progressive. He also exhibits the
strong and lasting bond is indicated in a relationship emotional detachment of an Aquarius Moon. His film
when the woman has her Moon in the same sign in which roles are not deeply passionate; his characters speak tren-
a man has his Sun. For example, if he is a Scorpio Sun chantly about the human condition, but don’t grab the
sign and she has her Moon in Scorpio, they have an excel- audience’s emotions. Instead, they offer Aquarian intellec-
lent chance of a long relationship because each will have a tual stimulation and tickle the funnybone. Aquarius-
deep understanding of the other. Moon people can coldly break off relationships, and the

Many people ask me, “How can two people who have public has witnessed this in Woody Allen’s ongoing private
the same Sun sign be so different from each other?” I usu- soap operas with the women in his life.
ally answer this question by asking another question: Bette Midler has her Moon in Cancer, and in her we
“What are the Moon signs of these two people?” see an emotional quality. She communicates great feeling

Let’s take a brief look at two well-known Sagittarian in her work, and her characters exhibit a certain Cancer-
entertainers: Woody Allen and Bette Midler. They were ian vulnerability. She plays lovable, spunky, and endearing
born on the same day, December 1—Woody Allen in 1935 women who reach out and care for others (a Cancer-
and Bette Midler in 1944. In both people we see the strong Moon specialty). As a singer, Bette Midler has recorded hit
Sagittarius qualities of humor, independence, frankness, songs that have a deeply emotional appeal, including “The
and a candid openness of expression. Woody Allen has a Wind Beneath My Wings,” a song about being supported
brilliant, funny, barbed wit that appeals to intellectuals. He by love (a Cancer-Moon theme). In her private life (which
is an auteur who produces, writes, directs, and stars in his in Cancer-Moon fashion she keeps private), she has been

1 9 4 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



in a stable and enduring marriage and raised a family. self—if you feel you are two different people torn and
Throughout history the Moon has been studied, pulled by each other—astrology can help you. Study both

revered, and worshipped. In ancient civilizations the Moon your Sun sign and Moon sign. Learn the positive and neg-
deity (usually a goddess) reigned side by side with the Sun. ative sides to these signs and try to recognize these ele-
In some religions the Moon was even more powerful than ments within yourself. You may find that with a deeper
the Sun because it dispensed wisdom and spiritual knowl- understanding of the forces that motivate you, you will
edge. The Romans set aside a sacred feast day for the learn to be less hard on yourself and to reconcile what
Moon. The name for it persists to modern times, though seems to be a confusing whirl of contradictions. On the
we now call it Monday rather than Moon Day. other hand, if your Sun and Moon are in the same sign,

Scientists are still studying the Moon’s power over you will probably find the characteristics of that sign dou-
plant life, tides, emotions, fertility, menstruation, bio- bly reinforced in your personality.
rhythms, and crime. Astrologers continue to find new and Know thyself. This is what the ancient Greeks carved on
subtle ways in which the Moon influences our daily lives. the temple at Delphi. It is an ideal that human beings have

The Moon in your horoscope modifies your Sun sign; struggled toward for thousands of years. It is what astrol-
it brings new forces, different motivations, and special ele- ogy can teach us.
ments to the character of your Sun sign. Your Sun sign
personality and Moon sign personality are a blend, a mar- 
riage. As in a marriage, disparate elements sometimes
work together to form a compatible partnership, each What Is Your Moon Sign?
lending the other its strengths. But sometimes there is To find out your Moon sign, look up your year and month
conflict in which opposing traits collide with each other. of birth in the Moon Tables starting on page 429.

If you feel that you are in constant conflict with your-

M o o n  S i g n s • 1 9 5



Moon in Aries
A Moon in Aries modifies your Sun sign in this way:

THE BRIGHT SIDE OF ARIES MOON You are more energetic, enterprising, optimistic, open to change, idealistic.
THE DARK SIDE OF ARIES MOON You are more impulsive, opinionated, domineering, impatient, vain.

Aries  is  an active, fiery sign , but the Moon Where you really excel is on the social scene. You are
is cool and passive. This disparity gives great bril- able both to stimulate and to delight, and no party should

liance and sharpness to the senses, but also results in a be without the wit and sparkle of an Aries Moon. In addi-
nervous temperament. If you have the Moon in Aries, you tion, you are generous when you feel kindly disposed to-
have a high-strung disposition. Your sense-impressions of ward someone. You give unselfishly of your time, atten-
the world around you are swift and instantaneous, and you tion, concern, and even your money. However, a
never doubt them for a moment. As a result, you tend to Moon-Arien who feels slighted or unappreciated will sulk
be very sure of your opinions and don’t like it when people and pout and complain about the world’s harsh treatment.
question or contradict you. On the plus side, you have a great passion for life. A

Patience is not your long suit. You won’t spend time la- basic optimism underlies your personality, and unless your
boriously wading through details; you prefer to plunge Sun is in a water sign (Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces), you don’t
right in and see what happens. hold a grudge for long. Your most striking characteristic is

In the vibrant sign of Aries, the Moon endows you a hatred of restriction. You will do what you want without
with charm, vivacity, and a special knack for getting others any interference, thank you. Because you resent advice, you
to do what you want. You are extremely fond of talking rarely are willing to listen to other people’s opinions. This
(about almost anything) and sound knowledgeable on a obviously has its drawbacks. But in a situation in which a
wide range of subjects. But you have a short attention decision must be made instantly, no one is more decisive
span. Although enthusiasm and energy abound, the long, and forceful than you. You perform best under pressure
hard necessity of really performing often causes you to fall and handle emergencies as quickly as a firefighter answer-
short of your goal. But you are quick to pick yourself up ing an alarm bell.
and move on to something new and exciting, leaving the In emotional relationships you struggle against being
old project to wither away. However, if you are pursuing a tied down or dominated. You have to be the one in con-
goal you really have your heart set on, you will drive your- trol. You demand freedom in a relationship, but this is ex-
self to the limit of your endurance. actly what you won’t give in return. You insist on being the

1 9 6 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



center of your lover’s attention. You want to be loved pas- spirit that runs through your personality. If your Sun is in
sionately, and you want love to be always exciting and ro- a fire sign (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius), an Aries Moon under-
mantic. If an affair dwindles into ordinariness, you quickly lines your impulsiveness and enhances your magnetic abil-
grow dissatisfied and restless. ity to sway others; you have great dash and energy. If your

The sign of Aries symbolically represents a fork in the Sun is in an air sign (Gemini, Libra, Aquarius), an Aries
road, and the lives of Moon-in-Aries people are marked by Moon bestows a shrewd intellect and persuasive powers of
sudden change. They often reach positions of authority expression. If your Sun is in an earth sign (Taurus, Virgo,
and are successful in the world of business and govern- Capricorn), an Aries Moon accentuates your leadership
ment. As a Moon-Arien the essence of your emotional life ability and lends your personality a certain positiveness
is the love of the chase. You view life as a grand quest, and and advanced outlook. If your Sun is in a water sign (Can-
impulsively pursue love, success and attention from others. cer, Scorpio, Pisces), an Aries Moon emphasizes imagina-
The chase, in fact, is far more satisfying than the prize it- tion and intensity; you have an increased ability to create
self. Achieving the prize is never as thrilling as wanting the striking original work.
prize and galvanizing your energy into going after it. Whatever your Sun sign, an Aries Moon confers quick-

No matter what your Sun sign may be, an Aries Moon ness of mind, an outspoken nature, and an inability to live
confers a quality of self-confidence and an adventurous under other people’s strictures.


Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  M o o n  i n  A r i e s

Dante Alighieri Charles de Gaulle Friedrich Nietzsche
Leonard Bernstein Isadora Duncan Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis
Marlon Brando Bobby Fischer Albert Schweitzer
Robert Browning Bill Gates Robespierre
Al Capone Henry VIII Mark Twain
Salvador Dalí Whitney Houston Stevie Wonder

M o o n  S i g n s • 1 9 7



Moon in Taurus
A Moon in Taurus modifies your Sun sign in this way:

THE BRIGHT SIDE OF TAURUS MOON You are more trustworthy, determined, warm, affectionate, artistic.
THE DARK SIDE OF TAURUS MOON You are more obstinate, possessive, rigid, overcautious, a slave to routine.

The Mo on is  at its  best in Taurus (in astrologi- Taurus is the astrological sign of earthly possessions,
cal terminology, the Moon is exalted in this sign). The and a Moon in Taurus indicates a person who is resource-

stable sign of Taurus steadies and strengthens the Moon’s ful, someone who gathers material things. As a Moon-in-
otherwise changeable, erratic influence. The Moon in this Taurus person, you are also blessed in that you seem to
position gives you great powers of concentration. You live have the least emotional problems of any Moon sign. This
your life the way you tackle a job: systematically and get- may be because Taurus is practical and positive in its out-
ting it done right. Whereas others complicate their lives, look, as well as methodical, patient, and responsible. Small
when you’re confronted with a problem you look for the wonder that history is dotted with the achievements of lu-
most effective way to deal with it, and even if it’s person- nar Taureans. A few among many are William Shakespeare,
ally painful for you, you get it handled. Karl Marx, and John Milton.

The sign of Taurus also brings out the quiet, reflective The sign of Taurus is ruled by Venus, planet of ro-
qualities of the Moon: you carefully ponder the sense- mance and the arts, and a Moon in this beauty-loving sign
impressions you receive from the world around you before endows you with a keen artistic sense. You are romantic,
you reach a conclusion. With a Moon in Taurus you do have elegant manners, and usually display a distinctive
not form opinions quickly and are quite the opposite of style of dressing. The Moon is a sensual influence and in
impressionable. It takes a while for you to come to a deci- Taurus indicates a great love of creature comforts. You en-
sion—you must be sure of all the facts—but when you do joy serene surroundings, the pleasures of a luxurious
there is no way to make you change your mind. One can’t home, the joys of good dining. Although socially adept,
change a Moon-Arien’s mind either, but the difference here you dislike big parties and large, noisy groups. Your idea of
is that Aries Moon quickly reaches its decision. With a a wonderful evening is a small, candlelit dinner party at
Taurus Moon you take your time assimilating information. home with four close friends.
Once you have done that, you will purposefully, relent- In love, lunar Taureans are the one-man/one-woman
lessly, and unchangeably follow your course. type, and are happiest in a close, committed union. Some-

1 9 8 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



times it may seem otherwise (especially if the Sun is in a underlined by the stability and persistence of a Taurus
flirtatious or highly sexed sign), but at heart Taurus-Moon Moon; this is an excellent combination to achieve success
wants the comfort of a committed relationship. Your secu- and material wealth. If your Sun is in a water sign (Cancer,
rity is heightened by sharing your home and pleasures Scorpio, Pisces), a Taurus Moon heightens your personal
with the person you love and who, in turn, is devoted to magnetism and gives strength and perseverance to your
you. You look for a true soulmate, and when you find him creative imagination. If your Sun is in an air sign (Gemini,
or her you happily and faithfully settle down. Libra, Aquarius), a Taurus Moon gives you firm resolve

The other side of the coin is that a Moon-Taurean has and inclines your intellectual powers toward practical,
a tendency to stay too long in an unhappy love affair or moneymaking pursuits. If your Sun is in a fire sign (Aries,
marriage. Because of your need for security and resistance Leo, Sagittarius), a Taurus Moon adds to your physical
to change, you shut yourself off from new experiences and strength and your fiery exuberance, and gives your person-
settle for what you have. ality great force and the ability to win popularity with the

No matter what your Sun sign may be, the Taurus- public.
Moon qualities of patience and determination run Whatever your Sun sign, a Taurus Moon gives you en-
through your character. If your Sun is in an earth sign durance, a conservative outlook, and a sensitive, sensual
(Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn), your remarkable endurance is personality that needs love and security.


Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  M o o n  i n  Tau ru s

Bjorn Borg Katharine Hepburn John Milton
Bill Clinton Hubert Humphrey Joe Namath
Prince Charles Mick Jagger Gregory Peck
F. Scott Fitzgerald Carl Jung Ronald Reagan
Greta Garbo Frida Kahlo George Bernard Shaw
Billy Graham Peter Sellers William Shakespeare
Che Guevara Karl Marx C. P. Snow

M o o n  S i g n s • 1 9 9



Moon in Gemini
A Moon in Gemini modifies your Sun sign in this way:

THE BRIGHT SIDE OF GEMINI MOON You are more versatile, witty, charming, lively, amusing.
THE DARK SIDE OF GEMINI MOON You are more disorganized, inconsistent, superficial, cunning, manipulative.

In the lively, restless  sign of Gemini the aside a part of the day to get out and be among people.
Moon’s sway becomes more mutable and erratic. This A Moon in Gemini makes you extremely impression-

does not make all Moon-in-Gemini children flighty, frivo- able to the changing scene around you. Skill in speaking
lous, and frenetic, but almost always indicates an active and writing predisposes many lunar Geminis to become
mind, an imaginative and creative personality, and some- writers, teachers, and journalists. John Keats, Rudyard
one who is inclined toward intellectual pursuits. If you Kipling, Jack London, and George Bernard Shaw are only a
have a Moon in this position you are extraordinarily quick few famous Moon-Geminis of the past.
to receive sensory impressions from the outside world. You As a Moon-in-Gemini person you are always mentally
rapidly sift through information and make your judg- assessing what you are feeling. You tend to dissect your
ments. Because Gemini is a mental sign, your snap deci- feelings and emotions to analyze why you think this way or
sions tend to be more intellectual than emotional. It is not behave that way. The most famous lunar Gemini who pos-
that you are unfeeling, simply that your immediate reac- sessed this quality is Sigmund Freud. Freud also had his
tion to stimuli is on a mental plane. Sun in Taurus and Scorpio Rising, giving him extraordi-

You are a fast learner, probably have a high IQ, and are nary tenacity and depth of insight.
an excellent critic, for you have an ability both to analyze You are quick-witted and vibrant, and when you come
and to verbalize. A Moon in the communicative sign of across a new fact or a different way of looking at some-
Gemini inclines you toward loquaciousness and endows thing, you are likely to undergo a change of mind. One
you with great personal charm. You have enchanting vivac- can’t count on your firm convictions, but your openness to
ity that draws others to you. Conversations with you tend life makes you a fascinating companion.
to run off on unexpected tangents and take sudden turns In emotional relationships lunar Geminis display a cer-
and reverses. At heart, a lunar Gemini is essentially restless tain free spirit. Here is where you are most intensely rest-
and needs constant stimulation. If forced to be indoors or less. You resent being subject to the whims and vagaries of
solitary or inactive, you are unhappy and should try to set other people’s emotions, and struggle to retain independ-

2 0 0 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



ence. At the same time, you search for the “perfect” love, Moon qualities of versatility and intellectualism can be
which of course does not exist. If your would-be lover is discerned in your personality. If your Sun is in an air sign
elusive or hard to figure out, this especially piques your in- (Gemini, Libra, Aquarius), your keen intelligence is accen-
terest. The Moon-in-Gemini personality is high-strung. tuated by a Gemini Moon and you have a superb gift of
You have a streak of discontent that sometimes shows up self-expression. If your Sun is in a water sign (Cancer,
as irritability and snappishness. On the other hand, you Scorpio, Pisces), your emotional nature is sharpened by
are amusing, witty, and have a wonderful sense of humor. the Gemini-Moon mental acumen; you have strong cre-
When you are in the right mood you are a delight to be ative instincts and a talent for research. If your Sun is in an
with. earth sign (Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn), a Gemini Moon

At times your talent can be stymied by the fact that gives you quickness of mind that you can use in a practical
you lose interest in things so quickly and drop what you so way in combination with your Sun sign persistency. If
eagerly began. You thrive on travel, change, and meeting your Sun is in a fire sign (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius), a Gemini
different kinds of personalities. In business, your best Moon bestows high mentality that combined with your
qualities are versatility and a winning way with people. passion and adventurism indicates superior leadership
You perform very well when linked in partnership with ability.
someone practical and hardheaded. Having to make a final Whatever your Sun sign, a Moon in Gemini imparts a
decision is torture for you; you need a strong, decisive witty intellect, an independent spirit, and an imaginative
partner. sparkle to your personality.

No matter what your Sun sign may be, the Gemini-


Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  M o o n  i n  G e m i n i

Fred Astaire Steffi Graf Mary Pickford
Joan Baez Buddy Holly George Bernard Shaw
Brigitte Bardot John Keats Spencer Tracy
Jack Benny Rudyard Kipling Queen Victoria
Pablo Casals Gypsy Rose Lee Barbara Walters
Bette Davis Jack London Andy Warhol
Sigmund Freud Louis Pasteur Christopher Wren

M o o n  S i g n s • 2 0 1



Moon in Cancer
A Moon in Cancer modifies your Sun sign in this way:

THE BRIGHT SIDE OF CANCER MOON You are more imaginative, sympathetic, protective, tenacious, loyal.
THE DARK SIDE OF CANCER MOON You are more possessive, moody, critical, self-pitying, a nag.

The Mo on is  in its  natural home in Cancer, are Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Benjamin Spock,
for this is the sign that the Moon rules. Here the best Humphrey Bogart, and Harrison Ford.

qualities of the Moon—devotion, patience, sensitivity—are At heart, you are refined, delicate, and gentle. You may
brought out. The romantic, intuitive sign of Cancer and appear to be aggressive and forceful, especially if your Sun
the sensuous, receptive Moon are in harmony with each or Mars is in a fire sign (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius), but un-
other. If you have the Moon in Cancer you have strong derneath you are vulnerable and easily hurt. You tend to let
emotions and perceive the world around you through your your feelings fester, and indeed, touchiness, moodiness,
feelings rather than your intellect. However, because you and a kind of quiet self-pity always lie near the surface.
do not openly show your feelings, it is sometimes difficult Though you are subject to greater mood swings than other
for others to figure out where they stand with you. Moon signs, your ups and downs don’t last long. If you are

In general, you are more receptive than active. You left alone for a while, the dark clouds will soon blow away.
store away impressions, reactions, and information until One of the most striking characteristics of Cancer is the
the time comes when you can use them. Lunar Cancerians continual ebb and flow of emotions, which combined with
often excel in an artistic or literary way. Jean-Paul Sartre, the waxing and waning influence of the Moon produces
Lord Byron, and Ethel Barrymore are famous and typical quick shifts in temperament and at times makes you emo-
Moon-Cancerians. Imaginative and creative, you work best tionally exhausted.
when you set your own pace and are not subject to the You are at your best in a deep and committed love rela-
tyranny of time clocks. tionship. Unfortunately, you often have to go through an

Any impression that sinks into your mind makes an in- unhappy love affair before you find the contentment and
delible mark. You have an extremely retentive memory. Lu- security you seek. Even though you are motivated strongly
nar Cancerians are often found in professions where mem- by your feelings, in a curious way you are also afraid of
ory plays an important role: historians, teachers, actors, them. It is your nature to mistrust love, to feel you are
writers. Famous Moon-Cancerians in these walks of life somehow unworthy of someone else’s devotion. You will

2 0 2 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



hold on too long to a relationship that’s destructive be- feeling are accentuated by a Cancer Moon; you have su-
cause deep in your psyche you don’t believe you’ll ever perb intuition and almost hypnotic power in creative
find another love. You also believe that to be alone is a fate work. If your Sun is in an earth sign (Taurus, Virgo,
worse than death. Very often early in life a Moon-in- Capricorn), you have unshakable loyalty and strong pas-
Cancer person must go through an emotional trial. But sions under the influence of a Cancer Moon; this combi-
when at last you find love that feeds your soul and you feel nation gives you an ability to capture the imagination of
secure, your personality blossoms. the public. If your Sun is in an air sign (Gemini, Libra,

You have a tendency to hold on possessively to a loved Aquarius), a Cancer Moon gives your intellectualism a
one, and a knack for subtly instilling guilt in someone you magnetic, daring quality; you have the ability to touch
love, usually to test the person’s depth of feeling. However, other people’s feelings. If your Sun is in a fire sign (Aries,
among your most endearing traits are intense loyalty and Leo, Sagittarius), a Cancer Moon directs your enthusiasm
dedication. and energy into creative channels; you have a flair for

No matter what your Sun sign may be, the Cancer- drama and the theater.
Moon qualities of creativity and emotionalism will be ev- Whatever your Sun sign, a Moon in Cancer gives you
ident in your personality. If your Sun is in a water sign sensitivity and imagination, enormous personal charisma,
(Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces), your intensity and depth of and a warmhearted, romantic nature.


Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  M o o n  i n  Ca n ce r

Humphrey Bogart Clark Gable Isaac Newton
Lord Byron Farrah Fawcett Eleanor Roosevelt 
Tom Cruise Aretha Franklin Franklin Delano Roosevelt 
Phyllis Diller Janis Joplin Jean-Paul Sartre 
Ralph Waldo Emerson Princess Margaret of England Paul Simon
Harrison Ford Bette Midler Benjamin Spock

M o o n  S i g n s • 2 0 3



Moon in Leo
A Moon in Leo modifies your Sun sign in this way:

THE BRIGHT SIDE OF LEO MOON You are more exuberant, creative, broad-minded, colorful, fun-loving.
THE DARK SIDE OF LEO MOON You are more self-indulgent, self-centered, conceited, overbearing, bullying.

In the magnetic , flamboyant sign of Leo the Moon’s You possess a wonderful sense of humor and great per-
power is positive and robust, and even its dark side is sonal charm, which makes you fun to be with. There is a

less dark than in other signs. Leo is a wonderful placement sense of excitement about you. If nothing is happening
for the Moon because it gives great warmth and stability to that is interesting or amusing, you’ll try to create it. Sin-
the Moon’s influence; it also imparts an idealistic quality. cere, open, very sociable, you have a way of lifting the spir-

If you have the Moon in Leo you have strong emotions its of people around you.
and can be reached through your heart rather than your Moon-in-Leo people work very well in group enter-
head. You are a quick and accurate learner when your feel- prises because they have a talent for inspiring people to do
ings are involved. But if a subject does not arouse your af- their best. Your immediate reaction to a problem is to con-
fections, you have no interest in exploring it further. The front it rather than sit around moping about it. A natural
sensory impressions you receive from the world around leader, you often feel you have a mission in life. Sometimes
you come to you on an emotional level. In order to make you may become bossy and overbearing—you are an or-
you change your mind, someone first has to change how der-giver rather than an order-taker—but at heart you are
you feel. so cheerful and enthusiastic that people find it easy to for-

One of your most striking characteristics is a refusal to give you. You have a fund of optimism and energy that
be hampered by other people’s rules. You tend to be ex- others draw upon.
tremely intelligent and are hospitable to new ideas, but you Vanity is a chief weakness; you are a sucker for anyone
have little sympathy for petty or narrow thinking. You like who can deliver an artful compliment. You always need an
to be the center of attention and enjoy taking on public audience and are inordinately fond of attention. It must
roles. You are highly expressive, and are especially drawn to also be said that you will probably get more than your
the world of theater, music, painting, and the arts. In a share of attention because the Moon in Leo imparts a lov-
way, it might be said that you, like all lunar Leos, have a able quality to your personality.
“show biz” personality. You are drawn to the luxuries of life—good food, fine

2 0 4 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



wines, striking clothes. You are an excellent host or hostess because you need everyone to admire you. You are an at-
who delights in giving glittering parties. Unless Taurus or tention addict.
Capricorn is prominent in the horoscope, a Moon-Leo No matter what your Sun sign may be, the Leo-Moon
will always pick up the check. Fortunately, you usually are qualities of warmth, vitality, and charisma will appear in
able to pay for your extravagant tastes. your personality. If your Sun is in a fire sign (Aries, Leo,

In love, you are a great romantic, yet your flamboyant Sagittarius), a Leo Moon accentuates your creativity and
romanticism would never be sparked by someone who leadership abilities. If your Sun is in an air sign (Gemini,
won’t make you look good. You need a partner who sets Libra, Aquarius), a Leo Moon lends a dynamic, compelling
you off to best advantage and keeps up your image to the quality to your people-oriented personality. If your Sun is
world. Your tendency is to put the object of your affection in an earth sign (Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn), a Leo Moon
on a pedestal, to credit a lover with superlative virtues that gives you an even stronger passionate nature and good
may have no basis in reality. When a lover does not live up moneymaking skills. If your Sun is in a water sign (Cancer,
to your expectations you are disappointed—not only be- Scorpio, Pisces), a Leo Moon heightens your already pow-
cause you take love seriously but because your lover always erful emotional impact on others.
becomes an extension of yourself, and his or her failure to Whatever your Sun sign, a Moon in Leo gives you dig-
be wonderful is very wounding to your pride and ego. nity, an affectionate, outgoing nature, and an instinct for
Also, though you are jealous and possessive toward your leadership.
loved ones, you yourself are flirtatious and a bit of a rover


Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  M o o n  i n  L e o

P. T. Barnum Tom Hanks Prince Philip
Pearl Buck James Joyce Margaret Chase Smith
Clint Eastwood Mao Tse-tung Diane Sawyer
Queen Elizabeth II Paul McCartney Gloria Steinem
Ralph Waldo Emerson Ralph Nader Oscar Wilde

M o o n  S i g n s • 2 0 5



Moon in Virgo
A Moon in Virgo modifies your Sun sign in this way:

THE BRIGHT SIDE OF VIRGO MOON You are more intellectual, meticulous, industrious, steadfast, responsible.
THE DARK SIDE OF VIRGO MOON You are more critical, high-strung, standoffish, argumentative, hypochron-

driac.

The sign of Virgo stabilizes the shifting effect of ness and at handling money. Your eye is on the long-term
the Moon. Virgo is the sign of intelligence and practi- profit rather than immediate gain, and you are concerned

cality, which gives a sharp analytical bent to the Moon’s in- with security and providing for your old age.
fluence. If you have the Moon in Virgo you have a fine, dis- As a Moon-in-Virgo person you bring an extra touch
criminating mind. You do not pursue knowledge merely for of perfectionism and professionalism to everything you
the sake of learning; you figure out how to use what you do. Methodical in your approach to problems, you figure
learn. Your immediate reaction to the sense-impressions out exactly what needs to be done and then tackle the issue
you receive from the world around you is to analyze what a step at a time. But you have a tendency to worry, to fret
you have just seen and heard. You are meticulous in sifting over the things that might go wrong and try to cover all
through information and you tend to question whatever is contingencies. You think that too much good work is ru-
told to you. Moon-Virgos are sometimes so skeptical they ined by the lack of just a little more effort, so you don’t
don’t even believe in what they see with their own eyes. You spare yourself and are often fussy and critical with others.
love to discuss ideas and probe into opinions held by oth- Logic is the discipline you live by, and you find it
ers, though you yourself hold fast to preconceived notions. frustrating to deal with minds that are illogical or scatter-
You are not so stubborn, though, that you will hold on to a brained. You think such people belong in Disneyland, not
theory once the facts prove you wrong. You are a seeker of in the real world. Discriminating in the people you
truth, and you believe truth is what is left after falsehoods choose for friends, you are also selective about the cul-
have been exposed. tural activities you take part in. There is a certain judg-

No one would call you a Pollyanna or the kind who mental quality that you bring to almost any situation. No
looks at the world through rose-colored glasses. It’s not experience washes over you aimlessly; you always learn a
that you are dour or pessimistic, it’s just that you deal with lesson from it.
life as it is. This practical realism makes you good at busi- Moon-in-Virgo women are sometimes thought of as

2 0 6 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



unfeminine because they are usually so efficient, thor- vulnerable, and tend to live in the illusion that their love
ough, and well organized—qualities that most people lives are calm, stable, and under control.
don’t associate with the word “feminine.” Both male and No matter what your Sun sign may be, the Virgo-Moon
female of this Moon sign are reserved and shrink from qualities of caution and seriousness show up in your per-
sentimentality or gushiness, and therefore are often per- sonality. If your Sun is in an earth sign (Taurus, Virgo,
ceived as cold. In truth, the less developed types who pick Capricorn), practicality and industriousness are even more
other people apart and exhibit a stingy pettiness are cold. pronounced; you are also very money-conscious. If your
Generally, however, Virgo-Moon people are caring and Sun is in a fire sign (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius), Virgo Moon
giving in practical ways; one can count on them. Virgo is brings strength and endurance to support your expansive
the sign of service, and lunar Virgos want to be useful to creativity; this is an excellent combination for politicians
others. and people in the theater. If your Sun is in an air sign

In matters of love Virgo-Moon people don’t have a lot (Gemini, Libra, Aquarius), Virgo Moon contributes an
of self-confidence. One might think that the ideal mate for even sharper intelligence and a flair for original work. If
you would be someone intelligent, logical, nice looking, your Sun is in a water sign (Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces), Virgo
and neat, but how many can marry a clone? Actually, you Moon lends greater dimension to your emotional nature,
are attracted to people who are quite unlike you—more for you are blessed with a rare combination of psychic
emotional and effusive, less calculating, more readily able truth and hardheaded realism.
to express their feelings. In love relationships, Virgo-Moon Whatever your Sun sign, a Moon in Virgo gives you
people take on the role of a critical but caring parent. Un- keen mental powers, a strong vein of common sense, and
consciously, lunar Virgos are afraid of anger and feeling an intelligent, thoughtful approach to life.


Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  M o o n  i n  Vi r g o

Ingrid Bergman William Faulkner Edward M. Kennedy
Andrew Carnegie Gabriel Garcia Marquez John F. Kennedy
Winston Churchill Mel Gibson Shirley MacLaine
Bill Cosby William Randolph Hearst J. Pierpont Morgan
Marlene Dietrich Lyndon B. Johnson Leo Tolstoy

M o o n  S i g n s • 2 0 7



Moon in Libra
A Moon in Libra modifies your sun sign in this way:

THE BRIGHT SIDE OF LIBRA MOON You are more adaptable, creative, charming, good-natured, diplomatic.
THE DARK SIDE OF LIBRA MOON You are more indecisive, self-indulgent, dependent, frivolous,

changeable.

Libra is  the sign of esthetic perceptions, and here the table is as important as the taste of the food itself.
the Moon’s romantic, glamorous influence is accentu- The Moon in the balanced sign of Libra endows you

ated. If you have the Moon in Libra you have a keen ap- with an open, independent mind that tries to evaluate the
preciation for beauty and art, and an artistic eye un- world dispassionately and rationally. A Moon in Libra also
matched by any other Moon sign. You also have a confers great personal charm and enhances the ability to
heightened awareness of your environment and of other get along with people. You are marvelous at understanding
people. However, what you truly value are those experi- the other person’s point of view (though you never lose
ences that make life more beautiful and pleasing. You ab- sight of your own self-interest). For the most part you are
hor coarseness, vulgarity, or strife. Your immediate reac- pleasing and easy to live with and have a genial disposi-
tion to anything unpleasant is to deny it, or, if that is tion. Libra is the astrological sign of partnership, and as a
impossible, at least to put it in its best possible light. You Moon native you function well in that relationship. Very
try to surround yourself with comfort and lovely objets in often your destiny is tied up with a strong and influential
a tranquil and luxurious environment. If it were possible, person with whom you form a connection early in life. To
you would live forever in a flower-filled room with soft a large extent, what you accomplish depends on other 
music playing in the background. people.

Because you enjoy beautiful things, you are happy to Essentially you love with your head rather than your
spend your (and sometimes other people’s) money on heart. There is something a bit calculated about your care-
possessions that catch your fancy. You are the kind who fully balanced emotional nature. To become your lover, a
will walk into a shop and instantly spot the perfect thing person has to possess certain qualities, such as good looks
to go with what you have in a closet at home. The pres- and elegant social manners. It is not that you are unemo-
entation and ritual surrounding a thing is as important to tional, but love is more an esthetic pleasure than steamy
you as the thing itself. A meal served on fine china and passion. You try to create something beautiful—fanciful if
crystal with embroidered linens, flowers, and candles on need be—from every intimacy. You may go through a

2 0 8 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



number of affairs and marriages before you finally settle purpose with a creative bent; this is a winning combina-
down with someone with whom you are mentally compat- tion for entrepreneurs and those dealing with the public. If
ible (more necessary to you than sexual compatibility). your Sun is in a water sign (Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces), Libra
When you are in a contented marriage, it is a source of Moon underlines the intuitive, imaginative side of your
great satisfaction to you because it answers your need for personality and gives a strong, balanced intellectual ap-
security and reassurance, and you truly enjoy sharing. proach. If your Sun is in a fire sign (Aries, Leo, Sagittar-

No matter what your Sun sign may be, the Libra- ius), Libra Moon heightens your magnetism and flair, and
Moon qualities of refinement and grace can be traced in aids your ability to put original ideas into successful ac-
your character. If your Sun is in an air sign (Gemini, Libra, tion.
Aquarius), Libra Moon accentuates your keen mentality Whatever your Sun sign, a Moon in Libra gives you a
and gives you an unsurpassed ability to win favor with polished, charming manner with people, an instinct for
other people. If your Sun is in an earth sign (Taurus, fairness, and artistic vision.
Virgo, Capricorn), Libra Moon endows your strength of


Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  M o o n  i n  L i b r a

Marie Antoinette Amelia Earhart Bruce Springsteen
Louis Armstrong Henry Fonda Sylvester Stallone
Arthur Ashe Rose Kennedy Twyla Tharp
Elizabeth Barrett Browning Rudolph Nureyev Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec
Maria Callas Sylvia Plath Lana Turner
Frederic Chopin Sydney Poitier Rudolph Valentino
Agatha Christie Wallis Simpson, Duchess of
Walt Disney Windsor

M o o n  S i g n s • 2 0 9



Moon in Scorpio
A Moon in Scorpio modifies your Sun sign in this way:

THE BRIGHT SIDE OF SCORPIO MOON You are more imaginative, determined, ambitious, emotional, idealistic.
THE DARK SIDE OF SCORPIO MOON You are more obstinate, secretive, jealous, resentful, domineering.

Scorpio is  the astrolo gical sign of death and your pain, and through the experience expand your phe-
regeneration, also of extremes of emotion. The effect of nomenal ability to love.

Scorpio is to underline the Moon’s sensuous power and at A Moon-in-Scorpio person possesses enormous
the same time bring out its forcefulness. If you have the willpower and acute powers of observation. Your judg-
Moon in Scorpio you have a spiritual nature and intense ments are shrewd and accurate. You are blessed (and/or
feelings that motivate your actions. cursed) with a phenomenal memory. This is usually a great

You are very clever at hiding your true feelings. A aid to you in your work, but it causes you to brood over an
Moon in Scorpio is one of the more difficult lunar posi- emotional wound or injury. Some Scorpio-Moon types
tions. Though you are driven by strong passions you tend will never forget and will wait years to get revenge. This
to deny that they are your motivation. You often disap- does not necessarily mean that you are cruel and vengeful,
prove of your emotions (for example, your anger or jeal- but at any time in life you can instantly recall a slight to
ousy), and therefore keep your reactions hidden under a your pride—remember exactly what the other person said
calm, agreeable surface. You can exercise great self-control. and how bitter you felt at the time.
If an experience becomes painful, you cut yourself off Your persistence and determination enable you to rise
from your feelings (in effect, kill your pain) rather than above obstacles, and this Moon position unfortunately has
continue to suffer. You particularly dread any form of more obstacles than others. There is usually a secret sor-
rejection. row or trouble in the lives of Moon-Scorpios that very of-

Your ability to deaden feelings allows you to feel in ten concerns family problems or health. This lunar posi-
control, but it is also the path to slow destruction of the tion creates a need for escape into fantasy, although higher
spirit. In Scorpio, the lesson of finding your Moon’s true Scorpio-Moon types use the spiritualism that is so much a
potential for wisdom and self-mastery is often difficult. part of this sign to do work that benefits humanity.
Basically, you must learn to let go emotionally and feel Though passion is always a factor with you, your sexu-

2 1 0 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



ality can be sublimated in other areas, such as creative no security that is secure enough. However, once you feel
work or a career that demands self-sacrifice. Work is im- unthreatened, you are capable of deep love.
portant to you, for it is through work and effort that you No matter what your Sun sign may be, the Scorpio-
are best able to express yourself. You have high standards, Moon qualities of persistence and intensity run through
and pride of craftsmanship is visible in all your endeavors. your personality. If your Sun is in a water sign (Cancer,
You tend to be ambitious and are endowed with executive Scorpio, Pisces), a Scorpio Moon confers energy and cre-
ability. This is especially true if your Sun or Ascendant is ativity, a true gift for turning a dream into reality once you
in an earth sign (Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn). set your mind to it. If your Sun is in an earth sign (Taurus,

Without even being aware of it you possess a sensual- Virgo, Capricorn), a Scorpio Moon accentuates your man-
ity that attracts the opposite sex. This is often a source of agerial talents and capacity for authority and leadership. If
difficulty in your love life, and many lunar Scorpios marry your Sun is in an air sign (Gemini, Libra, Aquarius), a
more than once. A fear of being controlled is at the core of Scorpio Moon bestows deep mental powers and an ability
your relationship issues. For you to be in a position of to captivate the public. If your Sun is in a fire sign (Aries,
emotional vulnerability puts you in a classic Scorpio Leo, Sagittarius), a Scorpio Moon emphasizes your com-
deathlike situation, for to be unsafe means you are at the pelling personality, your vitality and drive for success.
mercy of another person. It is almost impossible for you to Whatever your Sun sign, a Moon in Scorpio gives you
put complete trust in someone else, and it takes a long a strong inner core of self-reliance, an arresting sensuality,
time for you to commit yourself fully. The secret is your and a magnetic flair for influencing others.
great need for emotional security and, in a sense, there is


Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  M o o n  i n  S c o r p i o

Julie Andrews Charles Chaplin Alfred Hitchcock 
Warren Beatty Miles Davis Henry Miller
Truman Capote J. Paul Getty Nelson Rockefeller 
Jimmy Carter George Harrison Elizabeth Taylor

M o o n  S i g n s • 2 1 1



Moon in Sagittarius
A Moon in Sagittarius modifies your Sun sign in this way:

THE BRIGHT SIDE OF SAGITTARIUS MOON You are more adventurous, optimistic, exuberant, open-minded,
sincere.

THE DARK SIDE OF SAGITTARIUS MOON You are more restless, extravagant, irresponsible, careless, uncommit-
ted.

In Sagit tarius, the Moon takes on a sparkle and personalities and to foreign and strange places. Your im-
brightness that it does not have in other signs. Sagittar- mediate reaction to a new experience is to explore and

ius is the astrological sign of higher learning and breadth learn more. To you a chance to expand your horizons is al-
of vision. Here the Moon’s influence loses its passivity. If ways welcome, and you are not exclusively interested in
you have the Moon in Sagittarius you are noted for your making a profit. Money, in fact, does not stay long in your
quick, sharp mind, extraordinary insights, and an ability to pocket or checking account. You feel that the whole pur-
get things done in a flash. Your clear-thinking intelligence pose of money is to buy pleasure. You want to enjoy life.
sifts through sensory impressions swiftly and with startling At times you can be quite careless and reckless. Since
lucidity. you believe in your luck, you tend to abandon yourself to

You are the kind of person who envisions great goals whatever fate has in store. You operate on the theory of
and then, undaunted by possible failure, sets about achiev- optimistic fatalism. The danger is that you may push your
ing them. You rarely listen to advice about pitfalls and luck too far. However, a setback does not keep you down
drawbacks, nor do you wait to find out if a plan is imprac- for long. With renewed high spirits and a fresh outlook,
tical or unworkable. With energy and enthusiasm you rush you hitch up your wagon once more to the stars.
in and usually accomplish what you set out to do. One rea- Because of your charm and geniality, you have a knack
son for your success is your keen judgment. With a Moon for making friends. You also have a witty way with words
in this sign of lofty vision, you have a way of seeing farther and a buoyant sense of humor. Your social gaiety sweeps
than people with the Moon in other signs. others along on a tidal wave of goodwill. One of your most

As a Moon-Sagittarian you are fond of open spaces, endearing qualities is your ability to perceive the best in
travel, new people, different surroundings. Among your people. When you criticize, you do so with such openness
most winning traits is adaptability—to different kinds of and candor that it is comparatively easy to take.

2 1 2 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



Unlike the other fire Moons (Moon-Aries and Moon- Moon qualities of optimism and expansion express them-
Leo), Moon-Sagittarians are not highly sexed and passion- selves in your personality. If your Sun is in a fire sign
ate. You look on love more as an adventure. You enjoy the (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius), a Sagittarius Moon accentuates
thrill of discovery, the stimulating high of being in love, your self-confidence, adventurous nature, and appetite for
but you are unwilling to immerse yourself in deep emo- experience. If your Sun is in an air sign (Gemini, Libra,
tional intensity. After a while your lovers may complain of Aquarius), a Sagittarius Moon lends you vitality, enthusi-
your detachment or unreachableness. A perfect soulmate asm, a keen intellect, and a talent for salesmanship. If your
for you is someone who looks more outward than inward, Sun is in an earth sign (Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn), you
and in time your love affairs become more like friend- combine commonsense practicality with a lofty, creative
ships. You are also noted for a roving eye and a refusal to outlook; this is an excellent position for people in politics
be tied down to one person or one place. You need a lot of and law. If your Sun is in a water sign (Cancer, Scorpio,
personal space and independence. This does not necessar- Pisces), your emotional, imaginative personality is galva-
ily make you a bad marriage partner—you are a mar- nized by the energy and philosophical vision of a Sagittar-
velous companion—it is just that you do have a certain ius Moon; this is a successful combination for writers and
lightheartedness about love and fidelity. Life to you means artists.
change and variety, and this attitude has a way of also ap- Whatever your Sun sign, a Sagittarius Moon gives you
plying to love. a love for learning, humanitarian instincts, and a gift for

No matter what your Sun sign may be, the Sagittarius- being an independent thinker.


Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  M o o n  i n  Sag i t ta r i u s

Neil Armstrong Albert Einstein T. E. Lawrence
Anne Bancroft Vincent van Gogh Henri Matisse
Lewis Carroll Bob Hope Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
Bing Crosby Anthony Hopkins Pablo Picasso
Charles Dickens Howard Hughes Oprah Winfrey

M o o n  S i g n s • 2 1 3



Moon in Capricorn
A Moon in Capricorn modifies your Sun sign in this way:

THE BRIGHT SIDE OF CAPRICORN MOON You are more determined, responsible, disciplined, patient, committed.
THE DARK SIDE OF CAPRICORN MOON You are more rigid, pessimistic, opinionated, materialistic, overexacting.

Capricorn has both a stabilizing and restrictive troduced an entirely new genre of musical comedy and
effect on the shifting influence of the Moon. The changed the very way such movies were filmed.

Moon represents the emotional, sympathetic side of a per- If you have a Moon in Capricorn you are organized,
sonality whereas Capricorn is an unemotional and un- ambitious, and usually a prodigious worker. Self-sufficient
demonstrative sign. People with the Moon in this position and a bit solitary, you are haunted by a feeling of responsi-
have to overcome obstacles and complexities within their bility, of a task you must fulfill.
own natures to find the happiness they constantly seek. You are a determined person but your singleminded-

If you have the Moon in Capricorn you have an alert ness can sometimes turn into obsession. You pin your
mind and are very eager to learn. However, you are not in- hopes on one idea, turn all your energies in one direction;
terested in vague theory; you want to put your knowledge if you fail you may suffer serious depression. Of course,
to use. An example of this talent for practical application is because of their unshakable commitment, most lunar
Thomas Edison, a Moon-Capricorn whose Sun was in Capricorns succeed and often make an imprint on the
Aquarius. In Edison we see the inventive, far-reaching vi- world. Napoleon Bonaparte, George Washington, and
sion of the Aquarian truth-seeker, but the focus of his Abraham Lincoln all had their Moon in Capricorn. Lunar
work was to make his experiments useful, to put them into Capricorns who have their Sun or Ascendant in one of the
everyday utilization. His inventions of the telegraph, cardinal signs (Aries, Cancer, Libra, or Capricorn) have
phonograph, electric light, and moving picture changed particularly auspicious auguries for leadership.
the way we live. Another example of a Capricorn-Moon is Money is important to you, not so much for what it
Gene Kelly, whose Sun was on the Leo-Virgo cusp. In his can buy as for the status it bestows in the world of busi-
life we saw the creativity and exuberance of Leo, the hard ness, politics, finance, and high society where you wish to
work ethic of Virgo; his Capricorn Moon was evident in shine. You have charming social manners and an instinct
how he took his knowledge of dancing and applied it in a for getting to know the right people.
practical way to film choreography. In the process he in- Unknown to all but your closest intimates, you suffer

2 1 4 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



from feelings of insecurity and loneliness. Often you con- No matter what your Sun sign may be, the Capricorn
ceal this with a dry sense of humor. Your secret terror is of Moon qualities of steadfastness and dedication manifest
being abandoned or having someone you love cease to love themselves in your personality. If your Sun is in an earth
you. You find it hard to reveal your deepest feelings and sign (Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn), a Capricorn Moon under-
therefore may be perceived as being cold or calculating. For lines your executive talent and ability to achieve great re-
many lunar Capricorns, authority and power are a compen- wards; you have hidden depths to your character. If your
sation for the difficulties they encounter in emotional areas. Sun is in a water sign (Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces), a Capri-

Lunar Capricorns tend not to find true love in youth. corn Moon lends force and dynamism to your creativity;
Cautious and reserved, you tend to turn your feelings in- this is an excellent position for attracting wealth and fame.
ward, and you need a lot of emotional reassurance before If your Sun is in an air sign (Gemini, Libra, Aquarius), a
you allow them to be drawn out. You also have difficulty Capricorn Moon brings strength and intensity to your re-
putting your complete trust in someone else. But at some sourcefulness and encourages far-ranging interests; this is
point, usually when you are past thirty, you find the per- a good combination for people in communications, televi-
son you can become totally involved with, and then your sion, and publishing. If your Sun is in a fire sign (Aries,
love is durable. When you feel secure within an emotional Leo, Sagittarius), a Capricorn Moon confers a special gift
relationship your commitment may last your entire life- for authority and self-reliance; you have a mesmerizing
time. You are loyal and steadfast, generous and giving. In personality.
fact, you often give more than you get back. This is espe- Whatever your Sun sign, a Capricorn Moon gives you
cially true about the relationships of female lunar Capri- persistence, an ambitious and powerful personality, and an
corns to their lovers and friends. instinct for excellence.


Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  M o o n  i n  Ca p r i c o r n

Lucille Ball Thomas Alva Edison Robert Kennedy 
Yogi Berra Margot Fonteyn Abraham Lincoln 
Napoleon Bonaparte John Glenn Anaïs Nin
Johnny Carson Ernest Hemingway Stephen Sondheim
Dick Cavett Gene Kelly George Washington

M o o n  S i g n s • 2 1 5



Moon in Aquarius
A Moon in Aquarius modifies your Sun sign in this way:

THE BRIGHT SIDE OF AQUARIUS MOON You are more idealistic, creative, tolerant, a humanitarian with a pro-
gressive outlook.

THE DARK SIDE OF AQUARIUS MOON You are more unpredictable, contrary, aloof, fixed in opinion, tactless.

Aquarius is  a  most favorable sign for the Moon The passions of Aquarius-Moon people are passions of
to be in, for here the Moon’s influence confers ad- the mind. You are interested in ideas, philosophy, higher

mirable qualities of sensitivity and perception. Aquarius is learning. You enjoy science and mathematics, as well as art,
the astrological sign of rational thinking and humanitari- music, literature. Again, I repeat, you are not a person of
anism; in this sign the Moon’s effect is to bestow clear logic extremes. You are well-rounded intellectually, for you have
with altruistic concerns. If you have the Moon in Aquarius a wide range of interests in many different fields and asso-
you are rational, intuitive, and imaginative. Your senses are ciate with a large number of varied people.
well balanced and accurate. Your immediate reaction to Aquarius is the sign of future knowledge, and as a
impressions you receive from the outside world is to deal Moon-native you are interested in the unknown and what
with them in a scientific, open-minded way and at the lies ahead. Many lunar Aquarians seem to be clairvoyant,
same time try to understand them from the human point to see things before they happen. On the other hand, you
of view. There are no extremes of temperament in this lu- are not especially practical or down to earth. It can be said
nar position. You are neither too emotional nor too cere- that you have a wide outlook but short sight. You tend to
bral; you are visionary but not eccentric. see things in terms of large concepts, but when it comes to

A Moon-Aquarian has a wonderful gift for expression. the hard work and sweaty toil of turning a concept into a
You crackle with vitality, are a witty conversationalist, and reality, you are likely to drift off in search of a new idea.
make a delightful companion. Your friendliness charms all Moon-Aquarians are often known as giants in promise and
types of people—indeed, you’re people-oriented, sociable, pygmies in performance. The unusual—in people, in
and outgoing, interested in other people’s problems. How- places, and in projects—is what interests you most.
ever, unlike Moon water signs (Moon-Cancer, Moon-Scor- In love, lunar Aquarians have a butterfly quality—
pio, Moon-Pisces), you never become so emotionally in- alighting for a while to sample an experience, flitting off to
volved that it changes your own life. There is a balance that find something new. You are inclined to be somewhat am-
runs through your relationships. bivalent about love affairs. While you have a strong roman-

2 1 6 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



tic streak, you also have a horror of being suffocated by Moon qualities of intelligence and individualism run
another person’s demands. You cannot bear possessive, through your personality. If your Sun is in an air sign
jealous lovers, and you’re often drawn to emotionally un- (Gemini, Libra, Aquarius), an Aquarius Moon emphasizes
available types. Unconsciously, you choose people who your superior mental gifts and ability to deal successfully
shun you; the less interested someone is in you, the more with different kinds of personalities; this is a successful
interested you become. In your early years you spend a lot combination for people in the field of communication. If
of time trying to figure out what you want as opposed to your Sun is in a fire sign (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius), an Aquar-
what you think you want, swinging back and forth be- ius Moon lends imagination and the common touch to
tween romantic longing and feeling totally detached. your dynamic, exuberant forcefulness; this is a wonderful

You seek a fine balance between commitment and in- combination for people in public life. If your Sun is in an
dependence, and many Aquarius-Moon people go through earth sign (Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn), an Aquarius Moon
a number of unsatisfactory amours. When you do marry adds to your practicality a gift for innovation and original
(often in later years), the relationship quickly becomes as work; this placement is excellent for performing artists. If
much friend-and-companion as husband-and-wife. To your Sun is in a water sign (Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces), an
you, the most important glue in a relationship is commu- Aquarius Moon accentuates your imaginative, clairvoyant
nication. In general, male lunar-Aquarians have a some- qualities; you have a unique talent for self-expression.
what easier time emotionally than female Moon-Aquari- Whatever your Sun sign, an Aquarius Moon gives you
ans, apparently because it is still more socially acceptable an independent, stimulating mind, a persuasive charm
for males to be intellectual and emotionally detached. with people, and a side to your personality that is always

No matter what your Sun sign may be, the Aquarius- titillated by the unconventional.


Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  M o o n  i n  Aq ua r i u s

Muhammad Ali Arthur Conan Doyle Eugene McCarthy
Woody Allen George Gershwin Marilyn Monroe 
Fidel Castro Cary Grant Richard M. Nixon
Marc Chagall Timothy Leary Adlai Stevenson 
Angela Davis John Lennon H. G. Wells 
Diana, Princess of Wales Sophia Loren William Butler Yeats

M o o n  S i g n s • 2 1 7



Moon in Pisces
A Moon in Pisces modifies your Sun sign in this way:

THE BRIGHT SIDE OF PISCES MOON You are more compassionate, sensitive, loving, creative, loyal.
THE DARK SIDE OF PISCES MOON You are more indecisive, discontented, vague, secretive, easily confused.

Pisces  and the Mo on have a natural affinity; Gifted with vision and imagination, you express yourself
Pisces is the sign of depths of emotion, and the Moon well in creative areas. It is through the senses and emotions

represents your instinctive emotional reactions and some- rather than the intellect that you perceive things. You are
times your hidden dreams. Pisces is also the astrological extraordinarily intuitive and sometimes are gifted with
sign of sorrow and self-undoing. If you have the Moon in psychic vision; you seem able to strip away the veil that
Pisces you have deep feelings and an innate understanding separates the real world from the spiritual world, and to
of the human condition. know things that others cannot comprehend.

A peculiar danger for anyone with this Moon position In the real world, unfortunately, you do not always
is that the impressions received from the outside world have an easy time. You tend to let your emotions get the
will not accurately reflect the world as it is. Instead, they better of you. Though you seem confident and completely
are filtered through an intense romanticism. Your instant in charge (especially if your Sun is in a fire sign [Aries,
reaction to stimuli is to interpret things as you would like Leo, Sagittarius]), you have a weakness for letting those
them to be rather than as they are. You wear the reality- with strong wills and definite opinions lead you onto un-
distorting glasses of the incurable optimist, the dreamer, suitable paths.
the poet. Although you can work tirelessly and unselfishly for

Your romantic emotionalism is not always apparent on others, you find it hard to be strict and disciplined with
the surface, for you try to keep this part of your nature yourself. Having to make final decisions causes you con-
well hidden. However, even the most pragmatic person flict and anxiety. There is a strong tendency to escape
with a Moon in Pisces feels the need to escape into a world harsh realities and obligations. Sometimes you are per-
of private imagination. ceived as gullible, but it is only your emotional nature that

As a Moon-in-Pisces person you are artistic and have a makes you appear that way. You are easy prey for unprinci-
keen love for beauty and the arts. Many Moon-Pisceans pled types who play on your tender feelings. It is an axiom
have a flair for acting, writing, composing, or painting. in astrology that Moon-Pisceans are born under a special

2 1 8 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



vibration that impels them to befriend humanity. Indeed, Moon qualities of creative imagination and sensitivity af-
it is through helping others that you liberate yourself. fect your personality. If your Sun is in a water sign (Can-

In love, as in the rest of your life, you prefer the illu- cer, Scorpio, Pisces), a Pisces Moon accentuates your intu-
sion to the reality. It is the wild passion, the feeling of be- itive nature and spirituality, and confers unique artistic
ing swept away, that you desire. Your most favorite life- talent. If your Sun is in an earth sign (Taurus, Virgo,
moments are when you feel the euphoria of love Capricorn), you combine strength of purpose with the
enveloping your entire being. You are a romance addict, Piscean-Moon perceptiveness and idealism—an excellent
and many Moon-Pisceans who drift from affair to affair placement for those in politics and humanitarian work. If
keep wanting to experience the fabled glow of love as a your Sun is in an air sign (Gemini, Libra, Aquarius), a
form of psychological escapism. Pisces Moon combines with your keen powers of commu-

You are a romantic who will do everything you can to nication to endow you with clairvoyant ability and a gift
make a mate happy. It is your nature to do this, even if you for touching the emotions of others. If your Sun is in a fire
do not get an equivalent return from the other person. At sign (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius), a Pisces Moon gives your dy-
the same time, you feel vulnerable and dependent and namic energy more depth and profundity; people with this
build up an elaborate array of defenses to avoid being placement have a hypnotic effect on the public.
hurt. However, once you get past playing the role of the Whatever your Sun sign, a Pisces Moon gives you a
victim, you are able to sustain a truly joyful relationship of sympathetic heart, an artistic temperament, and a great
honesty and depth. capacity for doing work that will make a lasting impres-

No matter what your Sun sign may be, the Pisces- sion.


Fa m o u s  P e o p l e  w i t h  t h e  M o o n  i n  P i s ce s

Paul Cezanne Martin Luther King Jr. Percy Bysshe Shelley 
Hillary Rodham Clinton Michelangelo Frank Sinatra 
Marie Curie Paul Newman Susan Sontag 
Audrey Hepburn Edgar Allan Poe Robert Louis Stevenson 
P. D. James Elvis Presley Leonardo da Vinci 
Helen Keller Martin Scorsese Stanford White

M o o n  S i g n s • 2 1 9






8
6

Y O U R  A S C E N D A N T  A N D  
I T S  P O W E R

Your Ascendant or Rising sign (the terms are interchangeable) is a very important part of your
horoscope. Your Ascendant is the sign that reflects your outward demeanor and to a great extent deter-
mines how the outside world looks at you.

The word outer is significant in defining your Rising sign, for this is the sign that represents your outer per-
sonality. In modern terminology, it is your image. Very often your Ascendant is what the world first sees in you,
the impression that you first make on other people. Many astrologers believe that your Rising sign is more im-
mediately revealing than your Sun sign. Your Rising sign has been likened to the door of a house, the entrance-
way that visitors first see and must pass through in order to look into the house itself.

In my own work as an astrologer, I have found that the personality you outwardly project is almost always a
perfect blend of your Sun sign and Rising sign. It is this combination that makes your unique impact on the
world. Your Moon sign is a more hidden aspect of your personality. It is a pervasive influence, but it is likely that
other people sense the influence of your Moon sign in your character rather than see it on the surface.

Your Ascendant is the sign that was rising over the eastern horizon at the time of your birth (hence, your
Rising sign). When you were born you left the condition of being a fetus and became a separate, fully formed
human being. Therefore, the sign that was rising at this precise moment denotes your first experience as a sepa-
rate human being; it expresses the moment in which you began independent existence in this world. As such, it
characterizes the way you deal with others and your distinctive style of interacting with people. It speaks of your
coping mechanisms and how you react to anything new that life throws at you. In many respects, your Ascen-
dant is the sign that makes you feel most comfortable psychically. Its behaviors reassure you that you are coping
well and will be safe as you enter unfamiliar emotional territory.

2 2 1



Your Ascendant is called the sign of your self—your self- When a layperson talks about being “born under a
awareness, your self-sufficiency, your self-interest. In many sign,” he or she means the Sun sign (the sign that the Sun

ways your Rising sign signifies your goals, aims, and ob- was transiting at the time of birth). However, when some

jectives, and indicates the main thrust of your creative astrologers refer to the sign that an individual was born un-

powers. To some degree, this sign also influences your der, they are talking about the Ascendant. In an earlier era

physical characteristics and mannerisms. It is your mask the Ascendant was thought more important than the Sun

of outward appearance. Like any mask, it may hide your sign, but since the twentieth century this view is no longer

real face, but more likely it is simply a part of your real held. However, most astrologers feel that the line of the As-

face. It is the face that you most easily and naturally show cendant is the single most important point in a birth chart,

to others. for many other calculations in a horoscope can be made

What exactly is an Ascendant? In its simplest defini- once that point is established. One thing is certain: Unless

tion, your Ascendant is the astrological sign that was ris- the Ascendant can be determined in a horoscope, interpre-

ing on the eastern horizon at the moment of your birth. tation of that horoscope remains limited; it can never be-

To get a picture of what this means, imagine the Earth as a come a truly personalized natal chart.

small circle in the center of a larger circle. That larger cir- If you know the approximate time of your birth, the As-

cle represents the heavens, the sky bubble that is all cendant Tables on pages 481–84 should make it easy for you to
find your Ascendant.* 

around us. You, as a newborn baby, are lying on that small Or utilize the enclosed CD-ROM,

inner circle (Earth) and looking all around you at the sky which will provide you with this information within sec-

at the very moment of your birth. If you draw a line from onds.

the eastern horizon of the Earth outward to the edge of In reading the description of your Rising sign, keep

the sky bubble, that line marks the exact degree of your in mind that this is not a delineation of you. You are a

Ascendant. (Some clairvoyants claim they can actually see blend, and your Ascendant is only part of your person-

this astral line in a person.) The Ascendant in your birth ality. Only by self-examination can you discern which

chart is always pictured this way: parts of you are your Sun sign, which are your Moon
sign, and which are your Rising sign.

Ascendant

*If you do not know the time and place of your birth, it is still pos-
sible to discover your Ascendant. This is done by a process called “rectifi-
cation”of your chart, in which a competent astrologer determines the
time of your birth using as guideposts the time at which major events in
your life have taken place.

2 2 2 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



8
What Sign Is Your Ascendant?

Consult the Ascendant Tables starting on page 481 in or- the fixed stars; a sidereal day is four minutes shorter than
der to calculate your Rising sign. twenty-four hours.)

Note: The Ascendant Tables in this book were designed All of this can be quite complicated and involve a num-
for ease and simplicity. Using them, you can quickly ascer- ber of mathematical processes. For those of you who are
tain your Rising sign. interested, there are some excellent books that will help

However, for the purposes of analyzing your horo- you to make these calculations in detail. You will find
scope, you really need to know the exact degree of your some of these books listed on page 520 in my Recom-
Ascendant. Calculating this without the aid of a computer mended Reading List.
requires making some mathematical computations. First Of course, these days we let the computer make these
you must know the precise moment of your birth and computations. The enclosed CD-ROM will calculate your
also the exact latitude and longitude of the spot on earth birth chart instantly—providing you with the exact degree
where you were born. You must then convert the local of your Ascendant as well as of every Planet and House
time of your birth to Greenwich Mean Time (named for cusp in your horoscope. And should you want to purchase
the town of Greenwich, England, the official point from a different program, on page 522 I list companies that spe-
which time is reckoned). Then you must convert Green- cialize in an array of interesting astrological computer
wich Mean Time into sidereal time at Greenwich. (Side- programs.
real time, meaning star time, is measured in relation to

Yo u r  A s ce n da n t  a n d  I ts  Pow e r • 2 2 3



Aries Ascendant

Aries  is  a  very strong ascendant. If you were ever, if the obstacle won’t move you won’t butt your head
born with Aries rising, you are adventurous and pio- off. You will quickly lose interest and bound off to find a

neering. You like to take on the role of a leader, even if the new challenge, further excitement. You may be a ground-
leadership is in a small area. For example, in your friend- breaker, but if you should get stuck in the middle of a fur-
ships you are the one who tries to dictate where you will row, you’ll drop the plow and move on to new ground.
meet, what restaurant or movie you will go to. An Aries- Aries is the sign of beginnings. What you’re really best at
Rising child will be the most domineering and ego-cen- is the beginning of a job. You have the exuberance, verve,
tered among his or her brothers and sisters. and energy. Once you master an idea, you won’t stick

As an Aries-Ascendant person you have strong likes around until all the how-to-do-its are in place.
and dislikes and are never shy about expressing them. Aries-Ascendant people are accident-prone. Because you
Your dealings are straightforward and honest. You are un- are impulsive and quick to rush in headlong, you usually
comfortable with lies, fraud, and elaborate deceptions. You don’t look where you are going. You tend to trip and fall,
will always try to get right to the point, say whatever is on bump into things, cut yourself. Often your face and head are
your mind, and see what happens. more prone to injury than other parts of your body.

There is a contagious enthusiasm about you. You are an As a person with Aries rising, you are likely to have a
activist and doer rather than a thinker. Warm, generous, flashing smile, piercing eyes that move quickly from object
lively, you have a very friendly people-oriented quality. to object, gold or reddish coloring in the skin or hair, a mus-
You like to be noticed. cular body, and an agile quick movement to your step.

Sometimes Rising-Aries people have a reputation as The planet Mars, which rules Aries, is very prominent
troublemakers. This is not because you are malicious in your chart. The influence of Mars bestows great
(quite the opposite is true). But you like to throw off old, willpower, stamina, an aggressive sex drive, and a need for
conservative ways of doing things and try a new, brasher, achievement and recognition. It also brings on strain, ten-
more direct approach. You plunge right into whatever the sion, conflict, selfishness, a quick temper, and accidents
problem is and give it your best. As far as you’re con- with fire and sharp instruments.
cerned, obstacles are just there to be butted down. How-

2 2 4 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



Taurus Ascendant

There is  a  steadfastness , a basic calm about a Taurus is the sign of wealth and material possessions,
Taurus Ascendant. If you have Taurus rising you tend both of which are extremely important to you. You have a

to be placid and easygoing. You also have charming social tendency to brood about your future security: Will there be
manners and a strong artistic bent, for the sign of Taurus enough to keep from starving? Are you going to be able to
is ruled by Venus, planet of love and esthetics. You want to pay the rent next year? The fears and worries do not re-
create beauty and harmony in your life, and many Taurus quire a basis in reality. In fact, though you may have to
Ascendants have a flair for writing, decorating, or compos- struggle for money when you are young, Taurus-Rising
ing music. people tend to accumulate wealth as the years roll by. Own-

Taurus-Rising people don’t push their opinions on oth- ing things can sometimes become a mania; you covet pos-
ers. On the other hand, once you make up your mind (af- sessions and once you own something you guard it jeal-
ter due deliberation), you rarely change it. You hold on to ously and are heartbroken should you lose it. You never
your opinions and can be very stubborn and obstinate. resign yourself to the fact that things break, tear, wear out,
You are also quite set in your ways, though this is not al- get lost, and are stolen.
ways apparent at first. It’s the little clues that give you In relationships, as well, you tend to be jealous and pos-
away: you may eat the same breakfast day in and day out; sessive, although you are adept at hiding this. One of your
if you are fond of a particular color (possibly in the blue weak points is your vanity, and you rarely forgive anyone
or rose family, which are Taurean colors), you may use it who ridicules you. Having to cope with rivalry is hard for
repeatedly in your clothes and throughout your house. you. You may try to pretend the prize is not worthy of
Doing things the same way you’ve always done them gives your talents.
you a sense of stability, and this is a fundamental need. As a person with Taurus rising, you tend to have an un-

Taurus-Rising people have a reputation for laziness that usually good-looking face, large round eyes, and clear skin.
is not entirely deserved. It is true that you love creature Often your neck is short and thick, and your body gives the
comforts, elegance, luxury, physical ease, and lots of impression of weight and sturdiness. Becoming overweight
leisure. However, you can and do work very hard, espe- is a problem, especially in later years.
cially if motivated by the promise of money or by the ap- The planet Venus, which rules Taurus, is very prominent
proval of someone you love. Determined, persistent, and in your horoscope. The influence of Venus bestows grace;
strong-willed, you possess endless patience to see a thing charm; a love of pleasure, art, and adornment; and social
through, to make it a success. awareness. It also encourages overindulgence, superficiality,

jealousy, and conceit.

Yo u r  A s ce n da n t  a n d  I ts  Pow e r • 2 2 5



Gemini Ascendant
The first impression others receive of you is of or that person not liking you, about how long everything is

someone in constant motion: your hands gesticulate, taking. However, you have a marvelous mercurial quality, and
your eyes dart here and there, your body does not sit still in your high spirits and interest are quickly revived. You go out
a chair. Restlessness underlies your personality; it is the of your way to keep busy, if not at your vocation then at your
symptom of your yearning for something that is just be- avocation.You love puzzles, games, books, and the com-
yond your reach. You need change and variety and are often puter—anything that will amuse and occupy the mind.
discontent with your present lot. Gemini is the sign of dual- There is a basic coolness to the Gemini-Rising personal-
ity and this is evident in the lives of Gemini Ascendants. You ity. Even though you love to be with people and appear to
can be happy and unhappy at the same time, satisfied yet have charming warmth, yours is a mental rather than emo-
dissatisfied. Of course, this can be said of many people, but tional outlook. You deal with feelings and relationships ex-
in your case you are discontent for a specific reason: You feel actly as you do with facts and figures—as things that can be
you have not lived up to your potential. You sense that there analyzed. There is also a tendency to be egotistical, for fun-
is an experience just over the horizon that will make you feel damentally you know that you know better than others.
truly fulfilled, and you resent the strictures that you may You like to encounter many different situations and
think keep you from venturing out to find it. people. You travel, change residences and occupations, and

A striking characteristic of Gemini-Rising people is often marry more than once. Blessed with a natural sense
their ability to use words to say exactly what is meant. To of drama, you know how to heighten and brighten any ex-
you, clarity is a tribute that words pay to ideas. You are perience.
well informed, witty, mentally quick. Gemini-Rising peo- As a Gemini Ascendant, you tend to have small sharp
ple tend to move into positions of prominence not by features, twinkling eyes that are filled with humor, a
force of will but by their facile way of handling people. friendly smile, and graceful arms and hands that you use
You adore having an audience. Many of you become ac- to great effect. You move with quickness and agility and
tors and writers and are successful in the entertainment hold on to your youthful looks well into old age.
industry, TV, journalism, and the literary world. The planet Mercury, which rules Gemini, is very

As a Gemini-Rising person you have an excitable nature prominent in your horoscope. The influence of Mercury
that is quick to react to any stimulus, to come up with an an- bestows a high intellect, acute perceptions, cleverness,
swer to any question—and also to get upset easily. You throw adroitness in speaking and writing, and a flair for foreign
yourself into a project with verve and enthusiasm, then worry languages. It also encourages arrogance, sarcasm, snob-
and fret (usually quite audibly) about this thing going wrong bishness, cynicism, and disorganization.

2 2 6 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



Cancer Ascendant
If you have Cancer rising , you are very sensitive ness in business. You know how to make wise invest-

to emotional signals from other people. You have ex- ments and where to get the best value. Though you usu-
traordinary insight into human motivation. There is a re- ally have to climb the ladder through your own efforts
serve about you that is sometimes difficult to penetrate, (rather than the efforts of others), you are likely to accu-
but underneath is a warm, affectionate, loving, and giving mulate material success as the years go by.
nature. You are adaptable to different kinds of people even You won’t hog the spotlight, but on the other hand you
though you are not liable to make instant friendships. It want public recognition for your talents. With Cancer ris-
takes a while for you to let someone get really close. ing, acclaim and applause can be hard to come by, so you

Cancer-Rising people tend to moodiness, and others tend to have a way of feeling sorry for yourself. You com-
may not always find you in a receptive frame of mind. plain that the world does not appreciate you, but your
Sometimes you can be crabby and impatient and exhibit a complaint is usually an effort to win reassurance that quite
snappish temper. You are touchy, and others have to be the opposite is true.
careful of what they say lest they hurt your feelings. Your As a Cancer Ascendant you have obstacles in your path,
sensitivities are so heightened that you sometimes take especially when young. However, as you surmount each
offense where none was intended. difficulty and succeed (Cancer Rising has great tenacity of

However, this same sensitivity is what sets you apart purpose), you become stronger and more self-assured.
from the crowd. You possess great imagination and If you have Cancer rising, you are likely to have a round
awareness. Many Cancer Ascendants are extraordinarily expressive face, pale luminous eyes, slender arms and legs,
gifted as writers, poets, and painters. Because you are so and a rolling gait to your walk. Your body may be thickset
tuned in to the nuances of other people’s motivations, through the middle, and you are prone toward putting on
you are able to absorb what others are feeling and think- weight as you get older.
ing. You pick up opinions, thoughts, facts from all The Moon, which rules Cancer, is very prominent in
around you and, being very clever and practical (as well your horoscope. The influence of the Moon bestows kind-
as visionary), you are able to put all this information to ness, imagination, sympathy, deep emotion, an ability to
work for you. Cancer Ascendants are also clever with cherish and protect, a retentive memory. It also encourages
money, prudent and cautious, and have a native shrewd- laziness, inconstancy, restlessness, passivity, and untidiness.

Yo u r  A s ce n da n t  a n d  I ts  Pow e r • 2 2 7



Leo Ascendant

Leo ascending signifies nobility of character, and pull of others. Fame and fortune come to you when
high ideals, and great personal magnetism. If you have you aren’t looking for it.

Leo rising, you are big-hearted, expansive, benevolent, and You are efficient at organizing groups of people and in-
kind. You consider it beneath you to stoop to pettiness, spiring them to give their best. You are happiest in the role
carping, stinginess, or narrow-mindedness. Because you of leader. In fact, you feel wounded if your public doesn’t
are so magnanimous in spirit, you find it hard to believe ill put you in that position. When not given what you feel is
of others. You are the opposite of the Irish as Dr. Samuel your due, you can turn haughty, temperamental, and arro-
Johnson described them: “A fair people; they never speak gant. Leo is the sign of pride, and Ascendant natives have
well of each other.” this in abundance. You are self-confident and have a res-

Of course the world does not always live up to anyone’s olute faith in yourself.
expectations, and Leo Ascendants are puzzled and hurt by There is a basic likeableness about you, partly because
meanness and ungenerosity. At such times you simply put on you give the distinct impression that life is fun. You have a
your regal air and make sure the underling knows in what wonderful sense of humor. (Note: Rising-Leos have a par-
contempt and low esteem he or she is held. ticularly soft spot for children and spoil them outra-

Rising-Leos have a great sense of showmanship. You geously.)
love to put on lavish displays—whether it is decorating As a Leo-Rising person, you tend to have a large, beau-
your house with expensive and elegant things or dressing tifully shaped head, thick shining hair, a dazzling smile
in attention-getting clothes or throwing a splendid dinner with bright, even teeth, and a stately bearing. Many of you
party. To less flamboyant types you may appear ostenta- are benefited by an inheritance later in your lives. What-
tious, show-offy, and extravagant. But your showy displays ever path you choose to follow, you usually emerge on the
are not only to get attention; you see life in larger-than-life sunny side of the hill.
terms and aspire to the highest and the best. This quality The Sun, which rules Leo, is very prominent in your
draws others to you and, in itself, attracts power and influ- horoscope. The influence of the Sun bestows enthusiasm,
ence. generosity, power, warmth, creative self-expression, passion,

Leo-Rising people seem surrounded by luck in money, and courage. It also encourages egotism, arrogance, snob-
career, and friendship. You are not an especially hard bism, conceit, pomposity, and condescension.
worker but tend to achieve success through the influence

2 2 8 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



Virgo Ascendant
Virgo ascending indicates an analytical out- turns out, most Rising-Virgos do gain through their own

look. Though the degree of emotionalism depends on hard work rather than through the influence of others.
other influences in your horoscope, it is generally through You have a charm and elegance that is difficult to pin
the mind that you perceive the world. This is not to say down. You are not always easy to know intimately. Your
you are cold and insensitive. Indeed, the opposite is true, shyness and aloofness (sometimes well disguised by a so-
for Virgo Ascendants have deep and tender emotions and cial veneer) must be penetrated by anyone who wishes to
care a great deal about others. become truly close. Emotionally, it’s hard for you to show

However, it is the process of thinking logically that gives your feelings, though a great deal is always going on under
you the deepest satisfaction. You appreciate the finely tuned the surface.
mechanics of sifting through facts and information, finding As children, Rising-Virgos sometimes suffer from poor
the truth of the matter, introducing order and reason into health. Happily, health improves the older you get. For many
almost any situation. Rising-Virgos are rather fixed in opin- of you, a marriage partner brings property or wealth. Later in
ion, but not so inflexible that they will not change their life Rising-Virgos frequently become property owners, often
minds upon careful review of opposing facts. To you, the in a foreign country. Success for you is often linked to deal-
cardinal sin is to be ignorant of one’s ignorance. ings in and travel to places far from home.

A fault sometimes is your inability to put things in per- As a Rising-Virgo person, you tend to have a gentle,
spective, a proclivity for getting bogged down in minutiae oval face, eyes that sweep around a room and take in
and losing sight of the big picture. You magnify the impor- everything, and a body that gives the impression of frailty
tance of a petty detail and then become resentful if others but is actually very strong.
fail to see its significance. The planet Mercury, which rules Virgo, is very prominent

Work is important to you, and you usually accomplish a in your horoscope. The influence of Mercury bestows a
great deal during your lifetime. Often you are at war within logical mind, acute powers of observation, an intellectual
yourself, both wanting things to come easily and needing to outlook, perception, and a flair for science and writing.
achieve solely through your own efforts. Control—both of It also encourages fussiness, a nervous temperament,
self and of events—is what makes you feel secure. As it sarcasm, fault-finding, and worry.

Yo u r  A s ce n da n t  a n d  I ts  Pow e r • 2 2 9



Libra Ascendant

L ibra is  a  most pleasing and harmonious As- you. You don’t struggle to find success; luck often comes to
cendant. If you have Libra rising, you have natural Libra Ascendants through a partner, mate, or close associa-

charm, grace, and poise. You are extremely social-minded tion.
and take pleasure in being with other people in a convivial You like travel, new people, new projects. You happily
atmosphere. Parties, holidays, laughter, fun, and good throw yourself into enterprises that promise excitement or
times are what Libra Ascendants revel in. You have a gay diversion. The trouble is you don’t have much persever-
and genial personality and are full of hope for the future. ance, so a great many things go unfinished. Another diffi-
No matter what disappointments today may bring, Rising- culty you have is making up your mind. You weigh a deci-
Librans fantasize happy tomorrows and look forward to sion carefully, vacillating between one course of action and
living them. another; when you’ve finally decided you still hesitate.

Of course, you are not this way all the time. One of your There is a timidity behind all this pondering, a fear of
problems is that you are easily thrown into despair and de- taking risks.
pression, especially by downhearted and discouraging peo- You are unhappy when single and fond of being mar-
ple. Libra is the sign of balance, but it doesn’t take much to ried. (This does not necessarily mean that you will stay
push Libra Ascendants off balance. Basically, however, your married to the same person.) Somewhere along the way
spirits are optimistic and blithe. Libra Ascendants are likely to gain wealth and material

You are born with a great sense of fairness, and nothing possessions through a marriage partner. As a rule you
angers you more than to see injustice go uncorrected. You don’t have a lot of children, but you take great delight in
are deeply upset by cruelty, violence, bloodshed, strife. To those you do have.
you life should be serene and content, but it must, above As a Libra-Rising person, you tend to have a strikingly
all, be fair. good-looking face, graceful and symmetrical bone struc-

Libra Ascendants are refined, neat, and discriminating. ture, and a radiant smile. Your body is usually curving or
You breathe rarefied air. Your aloof quality is sometimes round, though not necessarily fat.
hard for others to figure out, but it will never leave you even The planet Venus, which rules Libra, is very prominent in
though you function so well with other people. your horoscope. The influence of Venus bestows beauty,

You gravitate toward artistic and creative endeavors, but charm, social graces, a romantic nature, an appreciation
sometimes your artistic flair lies dormant and unused, for for art, music, and decoration. It also encourages superfi-
you dislike hard work and prefer to take the easy way out. ciality, jealousy, laziness, dependence on others, and a weak
You don’t have to seek the spotlight, however; it shines on will.

2 3 0 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



Scorpio Ascendant
If you were born w ith Scorpio ascending, you will soon notice that it is the other person who is doing most

put the whole force of your personality behind every- of the talking. You are usually quietly watching, waiting, ob-
thing you do. You are not a halfway person. Rising-Scor- serving—filing away information that will be useful later on.
pios have an intensity, a dynamism that seethes and roils Rising-Scorpios have a reputation for a sharp temper;
under the surface. Your willpower and determination are the reputation is deserved. When crossed, you can be cruel
formidable. and biting. You tend to use any weapon at your disposal—

Though you are sometimes viewed as a lone wolf, you from ridicule to playing on a person’s fears. In the heat of
do have an ability to work with people—actually, to lead that moment, Rising-Scorpio must be the victor. Later, you
people. You are strongly persuasive and zealously pursue are remorseful for having dealt wounds, though it is ex-
your goals, and in addition have the power to make others tremely hard for you to say so.
pursue the same goals. Scorpio is the astrological sign of hidden passion; Scor-

Clever, creative, and resourceful, your fertile mind pio Ascendants tend to have a secret love affair at least one
seems to be an inexhaustible source of ideas and sugges- time in their lives, and usually marry more than once. As-
tions. Your brain behind your cool facade is always ticking trologers have observed a strange pattern in which Rising-
away. One of the things you must do is find out how Scorpios often lose their first spouse to death. They seem
something works, to dissect it, study it, and put it back to- to suffer more financial setbacks and disappointments
gether so that it works better. This is also true in artistic than other rising signs; but no other sign is more victori-
terms; you can do great visionary work if you have Scorpio ous in the end.
rising in your chart. As a Scorpio Ascendant you tend to have sharp features,

As a Scorpio Ascendant you are happiest when you can a prominent nose, and large, hypnotic eyes. Sometimes
control from behind the scenes. You tend to be secretive and your brows are thick and dark. Your body is agile and
reserved, and shun the spotlight because you can’t work moves decisively.
there unnoticed. If you are domineering, it is a subtle domi- The planet Pluto, which rules Scorpio, is very prominent in
nance, a kind of mind control. Some people claim that they your horoscope. The influence of Pluto bestows powerful feel-
are hypnotized by Scorpio Ascendants; it’s true that you ings and emotions, a sense of purpose, persistence, determina-
have a way of knowing what others are thinking. Much of tion, plus the imagination and ability to make a successful
this comes from your acute powers of observation. You are a start in a new direction. This planet’s influence also favors 
charming, witty conversationalist, but the acute observer secrecy, suspicion, jealousy, and cruelty.

Yo u r  A s ce n da n t  a n d  I ts  Pow e r • 2 3 1



Sagittarius Ascendant

A Sagit tarius Ascendant favors independence pings or obligations. You like money, but your real appre-
and freedom. You cannot bear to be stifled by out- ciation is for the independence it affords. You fear that if

moded ideas or difficult lovers or tedious work. You are you take success too seriously, life will become boring.
progressive, full of optimism about the future. You are also One of your problems is that you don’t measure the
restless in spirit, anxious to get on with the business of liv- consequences of what you do. You are impulsive, some-
ing, ready to accept a new challenge. times reckless. To take action is the main thing, to do

Sometimes your impatience is misunderstood. Your something about a problem. You don’t always stop to con-
sensitivity toward other people and your need for freedom sider where all the activity may lead.
are part of the same personality. You grant freedom to oth- Marriage is not the most important thing in your life.
ers and never try to limit or restrict another human being. Sagittarian Ascendants have a tendency to marry the

Sagittarius Ascendants are basically humanitarians, ide- wrong person (at least once) and get into unhappy roman-
alists who care deeply about injustice. On a personal level, tic situations from which they must extricate themselves.
you are honest and generous to others and easily wounded Travel is a major theme in your life, and luck surrounds
when confronted with selfishness or thoughtless cruelty. you in foreign countries. Many Rising-Sagittarians live out
It’s true that you can expect too much of your fellow man. their later years in another country.

You have a knack for making friends, for you are very As a person with Sagittarius rising, you tend to have a
open to new people and new ideas. You enjoy a spirited pleasant, cheerful face, a broad forehead, bright, humorous
discussion, an exchange of opinion. (Rising-Sagittarians eyes, and a friendly smile. You often make sweeping ges-
have a reputation for frankness: other people always know tures with your arms and hands, and have a strong, active
where they stand with you.) You are interested in research, body.
blessed with imagination, foresight, and clear thinking. The planet Jupiter, which rules Sagittarius, is very
You like to travel, see new places, learn how the rest of the prominent in your horoscope. The influence of Jupiter 
world lives. Usually you tend to read a great deal, watch bestows good fortune, happiness, generosity, breadth of
the news, subscribe to periodicals, plug into the latest in- vision, sincerity, and a genial social manner. It also encour-
formation on the computer, talk about current events with ages restlessness, self-indulgence, conceit, impatience,
friends. You prefer the simple life, with not too many trap- wastefulness, and gambling.

2 3 2 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



Capricorn Ascendant

If you have Capricorn ascending, you tend to Capricorns are worriers; in youth you worry about life,
have a serious turn of mind. One would not call you in old age about death. In middle age you worry about

melancholy, but you certainly aren’t frivolous. Cautious in success.
your dealings, you are reluctant to commit yourself until It isn’t always easy for Rising-Capricorns to show their
you know the score. With strangers you are often quiet, re- feelings, though powerful feelings do exist. You love deeply,
served, perhaps a bit shy. But once you open up you can be are loyal and protective, and go out of your way to do kind
lively, friendly, warm, and expressive. deeds for others. However, you are often torn by jealousy

Capricorn Ascendants have strong personalities, possess and resentment (which you hide), and down deep you
great willpower and determination, and diligently pursue never really forgive someone who does you an injury.
their goals. These goals are usually for a better life— What you achieve is mainly through your own efforts
money, status, a higher standing in the community for rather than through the influence of others. Though it
your family. It’s important to you to feel that your life is happens that Rising-Capricorns seem to benefit financially
meaningful. You have self-esteem and are reliable, depend- through marriage, your own hard work within the union is
able, and stable. Sometimes, though, you will strive toward largely responsible for your gain. With Capricorn Ascen-
a goal and when you achieve it will still not be happy. You dants there is often a rivalry with brothers and sisters, or
have a sense that something is missing, and you continue some kind of disagreement with their fathers.
your search. As a person with Capricorn rising, you tend to have a

You have an active mind with quick intelligence and an small, well-shaped head, deep and penetrating eyes, and a
ability to concentrate. You can ferret out information, see beautiful smile with good-looking teeth. You have strong
flaws in a plan, map things out ahead in detail. Sometimes feet and usually enjoy walking or jogging.
you may be accused of being too calculating, because you The planet Saturn, which rules Capricorn, is very
add up all the pros and cons before embarking on a proj- prominent in your horoscope. The influence of Saturn be-
ect. If an opponent has a weakness, you are also quick to stows discipline, ambition, patience, determination, good
spot it—and not entirely above using it to your advantage. endurance, and thrift. It also encourages stubbornness,

You tend to fuss over details to make sure all contingen- hardship, melancholy, aloofness, pessimism, and selfish-
cies have been covered. It’s your way of being in control— ness.
you don’t want bad luck to catch you unprepared. Rising-

Yo u r  A s ce n da n t  a n d  I ts  Pow e r • 2 3 3



Aquarius Ascendant
If you have Aquarius ascending, you usually make both a scientific and an artistic turn of mind. In your ca-

friends easily. You are quick-witted and lively, open in reer, you often are involved in two distinct areas of work.
your dealings, honest and truthful. You are an inventive Fame comes rather easily to Aquarius-Rising people,
conversationalist who paints word pictures that amuse and and many times it is just as easily taken away from them.
fascinate. Intelligent and charming, you are particularly Your life tends to be marked by unexpected triumphs and
suited to a position of leadership. reversals. When good fortune smiles there is often a dark

You are idealistic in your outlook and want nothing underside to it. For example, many Rising-Aquarians in-
more than for all the world to be happy and harmonious. herit money, but it often turns out that the legal entangle-
Even the idea of conflict upsets you. You want to see the ments are more trouble than the inheritance is worth.
best in humanity and are hopeful about the future. Aquarius Ascendants approach new places and situa-

Though you have a reputation for fairness and toler- tions with a spirit of adventure, even though the spirit
ance, there is a strong streak of inflexibility to your nature. does tend to wear thin. You become quickly bored. Rising-
Much of this is the impatience you feel toward those who Aquarians usually marry early in life and find contentment
do not have your visionary or lofty ideas. Rising-Aquarians with their mates. Though most of you are comfortably off
are modern, forward-thinking, and progressive, yet you are by the time you reach middle age, you never quite make all
as set in your ways as Capricorn or Taurus. One could say the money you’d like. Friends are helpful to you in both
that you hold firmly far-out opinions. The choice for most career and personal matters.
people is to accept society as they find it or try to improve As a person with Aquarius rising, you tend to have a
it. You want to construct a new society that will corre- wide forehead, fine bone structure in your face, and
spond to your vision of the ideal. dreamy, wandering eyes. Many of you are quite tall and

You are often intolerant of other people’s shortcomings rangy-looking.
and can be wickedly sarcastic and very funny at the same The planet Uranus, which rules Aquarius, is very
time. Your razor-sharp powers of observation help you to prominent in your horoscope. The influence of Uranus be-
uncover flaws that you can poke fun at. stows independence, originality, friendliness, a reforming

You are a system of paradoxes. You enjoy being with spirit, versatility, and a hatred of restriction. It also encour-
people but are perfectly content to be alone. You like to ages rebellion, unpredictability, tactlessness, eccentricity,
travel but love relaxing at home. You are friendly and out- and contrariness.
going but, at other times, moody and reserved. You have

2 3 4 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



Pisces Ascendant
If you were born with Pisces rising, you carry In your private life you tend to be disorganized, a bit

within yourself a strong artistic gift that must sooner or careless, the kind who is forever losing or misplacing be-
later find expression. You have an active fantasy life and a longings. In work, however, you are knowledgeable and
pronounced romantic outlook. You want life to be perfect creative and can be quite disciplined when working within
and since it isn’t, you choose not to see what you don’t a group, especially in artistic projects. You are also success-
want to see. Down deep, many Rising-Pisceans believe that ful in occupations that involve writing and travel. Many
they alone are destined to suffer disillusionment in life; Rising-Pisceans frequently change their residence.
sometimes others sense this secret sorrow in you. Often It often happens with Pisces Ascendants that a person
you feel you were born at the wrong time in the wrong who was an adversary in early years becomes a valuable
place, and you are strongly drawn to the past. friend later on. You may sometimes have trouble with a

Basically, you have a dauntless goodwill toward others. first marriage because of in-laws and relatives. As a Rising-
You tend to be very sociable, fond of entertaining, and en- Piscean you are probably fond of children; your own chil-
joy the warmth of companionship. You love the good dren usually bring you pride and happiness.
life—fine food and drink especially, beautiful clothes, and If you have Pisces rising, you tend to have large, lumi-
travel. At parties Rising-Pisceans are vivacious and verbal nous eyes and a sensuous mouth. You are likely to have
(sometimes you talk too much); you enjoy performing in wavy hair and well-shaped feet.
front of a group. A talent for mimicry makes many Pisces The planet Neptune, which rules Pisces, is very promi-
Ascendants turn to the theater. nent in your horoscope. The influence of Neptune bestows

The word sentimental comes to mind when describing compassion, sensitivity, keen intuition, imagination, cre-
you. Your tender feelings are easily moved by sad stories, ativity, and an interest in spiritual things and the occult.
lost animals, unhappy human beings. Your personality is It also encourages confusion, indecisiveness, worry, vague-
also changeable, at times moody and distressed. Worry and ness, carelessness, and self-deception.
imagined fears overtake and sometimes overcome you.

Yo u r  A s ce n da n t  a n d  I ts  Pow e r • 2 3 5






8
7

Y O U  A N D  T H E  P L A N E T S
Their Role in Your Destiny

ur solar system as we know it  today consists of the Earth, the Sun, the Moon, and eight

Oother planets that revolve around the Sun in a precise and ordered pattern. The dependability of this
pattern allows us to go to bed each night knowing that morning will arrive on schedule tomorrow.

This pattern marks not only our days, but our seasons, our years, and our lives. This “conformity to certain
known laws”(as the Columbia Encyclopedia expresses it) enables us here on Earth to calculate exactly where a
given planet has been, is, or will be at any given point in time.

Because each entity in our solar system moves at a different speed and rate, and in a separate path or orbit,
the combinations of the placement of the planets are almost endless. At the moment of your birth, the Sun,
Moon, and planets were in a particular arrangement in the heavens. This exact arrangement will not be repeated
for 4,320,000 years. This means another person with your exact horoscope will not walk on this earth for an-
other 4,320,000 years! Even then, of course, that person will never be exactly the same because of the entirely
different genetic and environmental factors.

What about twins, one might ask. Wouldn’t they have the exact same horoscope? The answer is no. Every
four minutes the Ascendant changes by one degree. This means that twins born as little as four minutes apart
might have Ascendants in two different signs if one of the twins was born in the last degree of an Ascendant and
the second twin born in the first degree of a new Ascendant. Even a difference of one degree in the same Ascen-
dant makes a change. When the Ascendant shifts, the entire birth chart shifts. True, the changes are slight and
the horoscopes are very similar—but then, twins are very similar.

And what of people born at the same second, perhaps in the very same hospital? People born at the same
time are known as astral-twins or time-twins. A great deal of research is currently being done by astrologers 
and scientists into the life-patterns of time-twins. The results are astounding. In case after case, it has been 

2 3 7



documented that the life-patterns of time-twins are eerily Planetary Tables on pages 485–513 that will give you the
similar. In many cases, they marry at the same time, have exact position of each planet in your chart for your partic-
the same number and same sexes of children; they di- ular day of birth.
vorce, travel, and change jobs and residences at the same
time; in many cases they die at the same time and from 3
the same causes. Note: The astrological community has taken a great inter-

Obviously time-twins are very, very rare. The unique est in a tiny planet or asteroid (it has not yet been deter-
pattern of Sun, Moon, and planets in your horoscope is mined which, and is often referred to as a planetoid) dis-
most likely unduplicated by anyone else. Your Sun sign covered by Charles Kowal on November 1, 1977. This tiny
might be Taurus or Scorpio, but you may be as different as planetary body is named Chiron, who in Greek mythology
night and day from another Taurus or Scorpio. Just as was the wise centaur, a teacher, and a healer. Chiron has a
your fingerprints are like no one else’s, your birth chart is diameter of between 100 and 400 miles and an orbit that
like no one else’s. And if you wish to gain further insight lies between Saturn and Uranus. The astrological signifi-
into the knowledge astrology can provide you, you must cance of Chiron is still under observation. In general it is
know where the various planets are placed in your (or thought of as an influence for spiritual regeneration and
anyone else’s) birth chart. the search for meaningful work. Some astrologers connect

Each planet has a specific influence in astrology and it to Scorpio and Sagittarius, and others to Virgo. A group
governs a certain area of your personality or your ap- has been formed called the Association for Studying Chi-
proach to life. For example, Mercury relates to your men- ron; this society feels that Chiron has no sign rulership
tal outlook; Venus governs your love nature. It is the and that its nature is, in their word, “maverick.” Many as-
placement of these planets in the various zodiacal signs trologers (and computer astrology programs) now rou-
that determines how you express the different facets of tinely note the position of Chiron in horoscopes and,
your personality. If your Mercury is in Gemini, you tend when doing chart readings, include an interpretation of
to be extremely verbal and quick-witted. If your Mercury Chiron’s placement in a birth chart.
is in Capricorn, you handle detail work very well and care- In August 1989, an interesting discovery about Nep-
fully plot out your plans in advance. If your Venus is in tune’s moon Triton was made. Data sent back to Earth
Leo, you are not happy unless you receive a great deal of from our space probe, Voyager 2, has led many as-
attention from a lover. If your Venus is in Aquarius, you tronomers to believe that Triton may once have been a
consider freedom of expression for each person to be the planet that revolved around our Sun, and eons ago was
most important thing in a love relationship. drawn into Neptune’s gravitational embrace.

In the following pages you will find a rundown of In accordance with ancient prediction, many as-
each planet, its power and influence, and what that influ- trologers down through the years have believed that more
ence means when it is in each sign of the zodiac. There are planets will be discovered within our solar system. A pre-

2 3 8 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



vailing theory (one among many) is that two more planets and disappointed when it turned out to be a comet briefly
remain to be discovered—the planet Apollo and the planet orbiting the Sun.
Vulcan. Apollo is said to be the true ruler of Taurus When a new planet is discovered and assigned to a zo-
(which now shares the planet Venus with the sign of Li- diacal sign, that sign undergoes a slow change in appear-
bra), and Vulcan to be the true ruler of Virgo (which now ance. For example, before the end of the eighteenth century
shares the planet Mercury with the sign of Gemini). (and therefore before the planet Uranus was discovered),

Indeed, astronomers continue to search for two other the rulership of Aquarius belonged to Saturn. Back then
planets in our solar system. One, named Vulcan, is Aquarius was a much more sober, practical, melancholy,
thought to be close to the Sun, between Mercury and the and restrictive sign than the bright, modern, forward-
Sun. The other, called Planet X, is being looked for beyond thinking, and electric Aquarius we know today. In the
Pluto. Something out there is exerting a gravitational pull grand plan of the universe according to astrology, the true
on Uranus, but Pluto (the planet beyond Uranus) is far ruler of a sign brings out that sign’s true characteristics.
too tiny in size to influence the orbit of a planet as big as Of course, it is perfectly possible that the ancient pre-
Uranus, and so astronomers continue to search for Planet dictions will not take place and the number of planets in
X. In fact, in April 1998, the scientific world was thrilled our solar system will remain exactly the same as today.
when it seemed that a tenth planet had been discovered, Only time will tell.

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 3 9



Mercury
3

It has been said that Mercury makes life under- your horoscope to find the position of Mercury, planet of
standable, for it is the planet of intelligence. the mind.
How does the power of Mercury express itself in your From the very beginning of man’s observation of this

personality? elusive planet, Mercury has been associated with speed
Do you easily strike up conversations with strangers or and agility. In ancient mythology, Mercury was the mes-

do you only open up with friends? Are you the kind who senger of the gods. He was young, beautiful, and swift as
on a moment’s notice will have a bag packed and rush off the wind, for his feet had wings. His province was com-
on a trip, or do you prefer quiet evenings at home listen- munication, commerce, everything requiring skill and
ing to music, delving among your favorite books? Do you dexterity. Not only was he clever in speech, he also in-
enjoy speaking in front of a group, or would you rather vented music, mathematics, and astronomy. In Roman
tell stories in your own living room? Do you take hold of times, Mercury also became the god of thieves, for he was
one idea and see it through to fruition, or do you prefer a cunning trickster, full of guile.
working on many projects at once? In astrology, Mercury is the planet of mental activities,

You can start to answer these questions by looking at communication, and intellectual energy. It rules over your

2 4 0 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



A n  A s t r o n o m i c a l  L o o k  at  M e r c u ry

Mercury is the second-smallest planet in our solar system (only Pluto is smaller), and the planet nearest the Sun (about 36
million miles away). Its diameter is 3,000 miles compared to Earth’s diameter of almost 8,000 . Mercury moves very
quickly, completing a revolution around the Sun every 88 days, as opposed to Earth’s orbit around the Sun of 3651⁄4 days.

Because Mercury is so near to the Sun it is not easily seen through telescopes; when nearest to Earth, Mercury is
between us and the Sun, and therefore invisible. The planet is never visible long after sunset nor long before sunrise, and so
our observations have always been made in daylight when it is difficult to see. Mercury’s orbit is very near our horizon,
and the haze of the Earth’s atmosphere further clouds our vision of the planet.

Recent space probes, however, have given us a much clearer picture of the planet. Until well into the second half of the
twentieth century, astronomers believed that Mercury did not turn on an axis the way Earth does. However, we now know
that Mercury does rotate on its axis, once every 59 days. Thus the planet makes three rotations during two revolutions
around the Sun, resulting in the rather unusual phenomenon of there being exactly three Mercury-days in every two
Mercury-years! According to photographs made in 1975 by the Mariner 10 probe, the surface of Mercury is similar to our
Moon’s—riddled and pitted with craters—and a magnetic field around the planet protects it from the Sun’s harsh particle
wind.

Mercury appears as an evening star in March and April, and as a morning star in September and October. The ancient
Greeks thought it was two stars—a morning star they named Apollo and an evening star called Mercury. In Egypt it was
also regarded as two stars, Set and Horus, which were known as the stars of thought.

intelligence, perception and reason, memory, speaking and Mercury also rules the voice, and people with strong
writing. It reflects the way you see, hear, understand, and Mercury influences are successful at public speaking,
assimilate information. Day-to-day travel, short trips, and singing, and acting. Mercury protects travelers and bene-
the various means of transportation are under its domin- fits education and research. Its rulership ranges from such
ion. It also controls the functions of the nerves, arms, major areas as the nervous system and the ability to com-
hands, and fingers. municate to such minor things as handwriting, pens 

When Mercury is prominent in a person’s horoscope, and pencils, communication via the computer, and deliv-
that person is likely to be facile in speech; a lively and eries.
amusing storyteller; a clever, shrewd bargainer. He or she The negative side of Mercury’s influence produces a
will probably have a good memory, a talent for debate, and tendency to be critical, sarcastic, argumentative, and sly.
quick, highstrung movements. Lies, deceit, and certain types of crime, such as fraud,

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 4 1



swindling, and forgery, are examples of Mercury’s negative MERCURY IN TAURUS As a Mercury-in-Taurus per-
power. son, you never embark on a project without being

Because Mercury travels so close to the Sun, it is never completely prepared. You have a practical, stable, and
very far from the Sun in your birth chart. It is always ei- constructive mind. There is a rigidity to your intellect:
ther in your Sun sign or in the sign immediately preceding You are quite sure your opinions are the wisest and
or following your Sun sign. you have little use for what others think. You have an

excellent memory and are a good observer, but you are
Where Is Your Mercury? apt to listen inattentively; since you’re not about to
To find out what sign Mercury was in on the day of change your mind, why listen to what someone else

your birth, consult the Mercury Tables on page 485. has to say? You also have a tendency to repeat yourself,
to state what you’ve just said over again in different

MERCURY IN ARIES This is a strong position for Mer- terms, usually to make sure everyone has gotten the
cury because Aries imparts aggressiveness and bril- point. Although you are sociable and attractive, and
liance to the intelligence. If you have Mercury in Aries, have a certain refinement about your manners, you’re a
you tend to be witty, outspoken, and original. There is bit shy with strangers. You’re more at ease reading a
a sharp edge to your conversation, an ironic or sarcas- book while lounging in a comfortable overstuffed chair
tic tone that can sometimes be biting and sometimes than holding court in the middle of a crowded gather-
very funny. You use highly expressive language and ing. You read a great deal, but it is experience that
throw a lot of slang into your speech. You exaggerate. teaches you the lessons you value in life. A Mercury 
An Aries-Mercury makes you impatient, eager to get in Taurus promotes a knack for handling money. Pos-
things done and wanting your way in the proceedings. sessing an eye for both beauty and value, Mercury-
You can be argumentative and tactless. Fond of both Taureans are often successful art and antique dealers.
speaking and writing, you may become active in the
literary world. Even if not a professional writer your- MERCURY IN GEMINI If you have Mercury in Gem-
self, you like to talk to writers and attend literary cock- ini, it’s hard to pin you down. You have a quicksilver
tail parties. A problem is that you are too impulsive; duality to your mind. You tend to change opinions
not enough planning goes into your actions. However, quickly based on the latest news you’re listening to.
you are blessed with luck in this respect: Your first de- You often hold down more than one job or work on a
cisions tend to be the right ones. Mercury-in-Aries number of projects at once. Extremely quick, versatile,
people suffer from headaches, especially in a raucous interested in the world at large, you live mostly on a
and noisy atmosphere. mental plane. You must have facts and information;

what you want is to know. You are good at languages
and math and love to read, study, travel, and talk to

2 4 2 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



new people about what you think. However, because MERCURY IN LEO Mercury in Leo bestows a gift for
you have such a variety of interests, your grasp of eloquence and a skill for leading others. If you are a
knowledge tends to be superficial. You always know a native of this position, you have a magnetic flair for
bit about everything, but sometimes not a lot about dealing with people. You are a superb organizer who
anything. You are clever enough to conceal this and to knows how to direct, manage, and control. It’s true that
give a marvelous impression of being well informed. you can be boastful, arrogant, and bombastic; and if
Another problem is your lack of stick-to-itiveness. At things don’t go your way your fiery temper may ignite.
times there is a distinct lack of order in your life. You But basically you have such a kind heart and sunny
would make a wonderful debater, public speaker, or ac- disposition that people usually forgive you. There is a
tor, and you have lots of friends because of your infec- showy expansiveness to your outlook. Though you
tious good humor. Many popular TV interviewers and would rather play than work, you are determined to be
talk-show hosts have their Mercury in Gemini. successful. You have great enthusiasm and sometimes

get so caught up in a project you ignore everything
MERCURY IN CANCER As a native of this Mercury else. People with Mercury in Leo are in love with the

position, you are sensitive to what others think about theater and the performing arts, and are happiest when
you. You have an almost sixth-sense intuition and pick they are on display. Creative fields attract you; you re-
up signals from all around you. You believe that if we sent tedious work.
had to depend only on our eyes we would see very lit-
tle. You are chameleonlike in the way you are able to MERCURY IN VIRGO This position of Mercury gives a
adapt yourself to different kinds of people. This does fine analytical quality to the mind. You like to deal in
not mean you don’t cling possessively to your own facts; before you make up your mind you must know
ideas. Indeed, you are a bit narrow-minded, but others all sides to the question and get all the information
would need to be as psychic as you are to discern this. available in order to analyze it. Once you form a the-
On the surface it is not evident; you maintain a charm- ory, you’re quite convinced it is the truth. Thencefor-
ing social face. Your outlook is always intensely per- ward, you expect reality to conform to your ideas,
sonal—you’re fond of discussing large events in terms rather than vice versa. You have an intellectual intoler-
of your own feelings. Gifted with powerful imagina- ance for people who are sloppy in their thinking; you
tion, a sense of poetry, and a fine memory, Mercury- don’t really understand human failings. Your emotional
in-Cancer people are successful as scholars, historians, detachment makes you an excellent scientist, re-
teachers, and writers. You are likely to make a profit in searcher, teacher, or reporter. You are very quick to
real estate and may inherit money from the maternal learn and can usually memorize long pages of material.
side of your family. Sometimes you are plagued with A fault is your eagerness to take on too much work or
irrational phobias, such as a fear of flying. too many projects. You wear yourself down, and at

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 4 3



times become nervous and hypercritical. As a Mer- your own ideas. One cannot budge you from a point
cury-Virgo you have a superb talent for creative crafts. of view unless you want to be budged. You consider

other people’s “proofs” to be variations of their opin-
MERCURY IN LIBRA Mercury is the planet of rational- ions, and listen to neither one nor the other. Solitary

ity and Libra the sign of balance. If you have this Mer- work and research are better suited to your tempera-
cury position, you love to make comparisons by listing ment than cooperative ventures. You probably have a
all the pros and cons, looking at both sides, weighing volatile temper, and Mercury-Scorpios are known for
all the factors. What you want is to make the perfect their biting sarcasm when crossed or upset. You have
choice. Even after you’ve made up your mind, however, an emotional intelligence. You will fight for a cause
it isn’t definite. A favorite ploy is to adopt a wait-and- even if it is hopeless, or sacrifice your time and ener-
see attitude. In truth, you have fine intuitions and of- gies for someone you love.
ten know things in a flash. But then you tend to intel-
lectualize and go off in the wrong direction. Toward MERCURY IN SAGITTARIUS If you have this posi-
other people, your attitude is gentle, sympathetic, tion of Mercury you are quick and bright, breezy, to
friendly. You are fond of socializing. Not wishing to the point. You prize freedom of expression and cannot
stir up controversy (oh, never!) in company, you will bear the thought of any power of censorship over what
go along with someone else’s opinion even if you pri- you have to say. Your mind is restless, inquiring, always
vately disagree. Mercury-in-Libra people do their best looking for stimulation. You may jump from project to
creative and intellectual work within a partnership. project or change jobs frequently. Travel is often in-
You are especially successful if you team up with a volved in your work. Mercury-Sagittarians never stop
strong person who can direct you. Left alone, you may learning; yours is an ongoing, lifetime education. You
become lazy and not apply yourself with diligence. love to read, explore new ideas, learn about other peo-

ple. You are fast on your feet and can grasp ideas in-
MERCURY IN SCORPIO As a Mercury-in-Scorpio per- stantly, but a frequent failing is your lack of concentra-

son, you are questioning and probing. You must dig tion. Some people find you too blunt and outspoken,
beneath the surface to discover the real facts. You are but that quality springs from Sagittarius’s basic hon-
especially drawn to things hidden: many of you go into esty. You never deliberately set out to deceive or dis-
the fields of medicine, science, religion, and the occult. semble; if you are tactless it’s because you don’t think
Mercury-Scorpios are particularly suited for investiga- before you speak. Sometimes you find it difficult to
tive work because you are unflagging in your pursuit complete a long, sustained piece of work.
and nothing eludes your keen observation. You take
great pride in your ability not to be fooled. You also
have a stubborn, obstinate mind and are enamored of

2 4 4 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



MERCURY IN CAPRICORN If you have Mercury in terizes the way your mind works. You enjoy intellectual
Capricorn you tend to be ambitious and methodical, discussions about philosophy, metaphysics, and the fu-
careful, calculating, and patient. You are not only su- ture of mankind. Chances are you have read the classic
perb at handling detail, but you also never lose sight of writings of our great thinkers. You are especially suited
the whole picture. When it comes to making decisions for work in progressive professions—science, inven-
you are extremely rational. Logic, the steady progres- tions, the world of television and electronics. Some-
sion from point to point, is what you put your faith in. times you may seem eccentric, for your ideas are ad-
You always have an objective; you always have a secret vanced and you also enjoy saying things that shock
goal you are pursuing. Mercury-Capricorns often at- other people.
tain positions of leadership because they are so de-
pendable and have an air of authority. (This is evident MERCURY IN PISCES Pisces is the sign of psychic rev-
even in very small children who have Mercury in this elation, and Mercury in this sign gives you a subtle and
position.) A problem you have in relating to people intuitive mind. There is an intriguing air of mystery
can be your dictatorial manner. You also tend to have a about the way you think. You don’t logically arrive at
disapproving air about the foibles and frivolities of conclusions; you seem to get flashes of knowledge or
others. Life is serious to Mercury-Capricorns and you sudden feelings that are not based on previous facts or
see its dark side—though a redeeming trait is your dry circumstances. Sometimes you will make a pronounce-
sense of humor. ment, and afterward what you say will turn out to be

true. You have accurate intuition. As a Mercury-Piscean
MERCURY IN AQUARIUS Mercury in Aquarius indi- you are imaginative and creative, but you tend to lack

cates a fine and clever mind, inquisitive, accurate, and self-confidence. At times you appear timid or confused.
inventive. As a native of this position you take a great You have deep sympathy and understanding for the
interest in other people and have excellent judgment of foibles, failings, and follies of other people. In your
human nature. You love to analyze character and moti- opinion everyone, including a liar, has his own truth.
vation, and with your finely tuned powers of observa- You have such sensitivity to your environment that you
tion are able to predict accurately how someone will cannot work or think straight when there is anything
react in a certain situation. You are a notorious people- or anyone upsetting or jarring around you. An apt 
watcher—in trains, buses, airports, and restaurants. image for Mercury-in-Pisces is the absentminded 
Yours is a broad and emotionally detached outlook. professor.
Aquarius is the sign of the truth-seeker, which charac-

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 4 5



Venus
3

Venus is  the planet of love and pleasure. It rules also temperamental and self-indulgent, and at times could
over your capacity to express affection and to enjoy be treacherous and spiteful.

beauty. In addition, Venus lends your personality allure and In astrology Venus rules over love affairs, art and
desirability, and tells what kind of sex appeal you possess. beauty, adornment and decoration, the social graces, affec-

By looking at the position of Venus in your birth chart, tion, harmony and friendship. The planet governs the
you can answer such questions as: What kind of lovers do higher emotions; its greatest gift is the gift of happiness.
you attract? Are you flirtatious? Do you find happiness in It can be said that Venus makes life beautiful.
your love affairs, or are you often disappointed? Where do The influence of Venus in your chart indicates how you
your creative talents lie? relate to the opposite sex, whether you are popular and

From early times, Venus in mythology has been a god- make friends easily, and also what artistic leanings you
dess whose dominion is love and the emotions. It was have. It rules your ability to love and to share with another
Venus who taught the arts of seduction to mortal men person, and also governs your choice of gifts, cosmetics,
and women. Her power over the heart is legend; she “stole flowers, and art objects. Being the planet of pleasure, it
the wits even of the wise.” She was extremely beautiful, points to the kinds of amusements you are drawn to and
and flowers grew wherever she walked. The goddess was in what ways you spend your money.

2 4 6 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



A n  A s t r o n o m i c a l  L o o k  at  Ve n u s

Venus, the second planet from the Sun (a little over 67 million miles away), has long been known as Earth’s sister-planet
because it is very similar to Earth in size, mass, and density. Also, no other planet comes as near to us in its orbit. The orbit
of Venus lies between us and the Sun and is an almost perfect circle.

Venus takes 225 days to complete its journey around the Sun. Like Mercury, the planet at times appears to us as a
morning star and an evening star. In ancient days astronomers thought it was two separate stars—one that heralded the
morning and the other that closed the doors of twilight.

Though Venus is so near to us, until the early 1960s its surface was a mystery due to the impenetrable veil of clouds
that envelops it. Since that time space probes have shown that Venus has a hard crust like the Earth and a rocky surface
covered with volcanoes, mountains, and craters. The most recent space probe to study Venus was the Magellan from 1990
to 1994. Venus’s thick and heavy cloud covering has been analyzed as composed of carbon dioxide and sulphuric acid. The
light of the Sun is reflected on these clouds, which is what makes Venus shine so brightly in the heavens. The planet’s soft
and beautifully luminous appearance has always fascinated earthlings.

When Venus is prominent in your horoscope you are Where Is Your Venus?
usually a delightful companion, very easy to get along
with. Venus also endows its natives with an unerring eye To find out what sign Venus was in on the day of your
for design and beauty, and knowledge of how to dress and birth, consult the Venus Tables on page 491.
present themselves appealingly.

The other side of Venus’s influence is that it can en- VENUS IN ARIES This position of Venus gives a re-

courage a person to put more importance on pleasure, sponsive and impulsive love nature. You are the kind of

ease, and luxury than on self-discipline. A strong streak of person who falls in love at first sight and never thinks

narcissism and a lack of willpower indicate an afflicted* once before following the dictates of your heart. You

Venus in a chart. are strongly sensual and feel at your most complete

The planet Venus never travels far from the Sun. In when you are emotionally involved with someone.

your horoscope, it is always either in your Sun sign or in Physical appearance is what first attracts you, but to

one of the two signs immediately preceding or following sustain a love affair you must also find mental compat-

your Sun sign. ibility. You are turned off by a sloppy appearance or
loud, vulgar behavior. As a Venus-Arien you attract

*A planet is “afflicted” when the negative side of its power is stressed. friends because of your demonstrative and enthusiastic

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 4 7



attitude. You like to bring unexpected gifts to those literature, music, seeing new places (and meeting new
you love. People with Venus in Aries are a curious mix- people)—that a lover just can’t be the single focus of
ture of sentimentality and aggressiveness. Your emo- your life. This lends a certain coolness to your emo-
tions are easily touched but you are also demanding tions. Your inconstancy sometimes causes you difficul-
and somewhat selfish. Others should not expect you to ties in love or marriage, but you bounce back quickly.
settle down into calm domestic peace; you are too rest- Not even a frustrated lover can be angry at you very
less and flirtatious, too enamored of amour. long—you are too charming, witty, and funny. You en-

joy being with people and have lots of friends, and of-
VENUS IN TAURUS As a Venus-in-Taurus person you ten more than one lover. (Venus exerts its most flirta-

are affectionate and romantic, but you don’t give your tious influence in Gemini.) This position of Venus also
love away too quickly. A bad love affair is hard on you stimulates a careless and free hand for spending
emotionally, so you take your time deciding on the money.
right person to love. This process, however, is done by
feeling rather than thinking logically. Yours is a very VENUS IN CANCER As a Venus-in-Cancer person you
physical and earthy love nature. To you, love does not are romantic and sensitive. Being loved is more impor-
exist without sex. You are very demonstrative and gen- tant to you than almost anything else, though you of-
erous toward a lover, sometimes too much so. Your ten conceal this need under a shell of reserve. You are
passion can be smothering; you have an all-consuming not, however, so blindly romantic that you don’t care-
need to make a lover belong to you. With friends, you fully consider future security. For example, if you are a
are willing and ready to help, but you are as cautious man you may not propose marriage until you have
about forming instant friendships as about love. This some reliable means of earning a living; if you are a
position of Venus brings money luck, sometimes woman you make sure you won’t end up sharing your
through inheritance or marriage. Venus-in-Taurus lover’s poverty or struggling to support him. In a love
people have a keen artistic eye and are interested in affair you would much rather be pursued than do the
music. You also love to eat and have to fight over- pursuing; you need the reassurance that someone
weight. wants you enough to go after you. Once you feel se-

cure you are demonstrative and sensual. You have a
VENUS IN GEMINI If you have Venus in Gemini you wonderful gift for eloquence and you are also intensely

must have an intellectual rapport with someone before sentimental. You will make a big fuss over your lover’s
your affections begin to blossom. Basically, you have a birthday and remember the anniversary of the day you
lighthearted attitude toward love. Intense, heavy emo- first met. This position of Venus indicates strong fam-
tional commitments are like an anchor around your ily loyalty. Venus-Cancerians are delightfully content to
neck. You have such a wide range of interests—travel, be at home and often love to cook.

2 4 8 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



VENUS IN LEO Without doing anything, Venus-Leos teacher; you have an excellent business sense and a
are able to attract warm feelings on the part of others. quiet but witty sense of humor. Many of our brilliant
There is something so magnetic, so irresistibly likeable, government leaders and humanitarians are Venus-
about you that you enjoy great popularity. You are ex- Virgos who have given their love to the world at large
travagantly affectionate and generous, buying expen- rather than to one person.
sive gifts for those you love and praising them to the
skies in front of other people. Of course, what you VENUS IN LIBRA You are in love with love. However,
must have back is intense devotion, loyalty, and lots of you are much more romantic than sensual. You skate
attention. You must always be dominant in a love af- gracefully over the profundities of love. Anything
fair. “All the world’s a stage” was written about your coarse, crude, vulgar, or earthy repels you. To you, true
emotional nature. No one can make a scene or con- love is of the spirit. This is not to say you are sexually
frontation as dramatic as a Venus-Leo. Needless to say chaste. Indeed, you fall in love too easily and often have
you are drawn to the world of theater, and many of more than one amour going at a time. However, a love
you are blessed with superb creative gifts. You also love affair for a Venus-Libran must have all the right trap-
fine possessions—money, clothes, jewels, furs. Though pings and ritual. The ambiance created by champagne,
self-indulgent and pleasure-seeking, you are capable of intimate candlelit suppers, poetry written expressly for
making a great self-sacrifice for the happiness of some- you, and beautiful gifts quite undoes your resistance.
one else. You put great store by charming social manners. Peo-

ple who don’t measure up are summarily dismissed no
VENUS IN VIRGO If you have Venus in Virgo, you tend matter what their deeper qualities may be. Venus-in-

to be cautious about falling in love. You sometimes Libra can be cold and aloof toward anyone who pre-
avoid involvement by taking small defects in a person sumes. This position of Venus is superb for an artistic
and blowing them up out of proportion as major char- talent or a flair for design and decoration. You are suc-
acter flaws. You hold yourself on a tight rein, because cessful working in creative projects within a partner-
you fear that your feelings will be exploited by some- ship or marriage (sometimes you combine both).
one unworthy. What you want in a love relationship is Venus-Librans adore creature comforts and luxury and
someone who will regard you as special. Curiously, tend to be extravagant with money.
however, when you do give your heart away it’s often to
the wrong person, who will not appreciate your fine VENUS IN SCORPIO With your Venus in Scorpio, be-
qualities. (For some reason, this position of Venus ing in love is an all-consuming experience for you.
tends to promote scandal.) Venus-Virgos have many There is a profound intensity to your emotions. Your
virtues. You are refined and intelligent, loyal and sym- sex life is passionate and demonstrative, and in a love
pathetic. Often you are an imaginative writer and affair it is the sexual side of the relationship that is em-

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 4 9



phasized. However, you also put love on a spiritual VENUS IN CAPRICORN Venus-Capricorns are as
plane. Your deep need is to possess a lover wholly, to careful and cautious about love as about anything else.
make your partner surrender to you body and soul. You may sometimes be thought of as cold and calcu-
This, predictably, leads to stormy scenes; it is not easy lating because you believe in the dictate “it’s just as
for anyone to deal with such possessiveness. You are easy to fall in love with someone rich as with someone
very sensitive to any rebuff; you can bristle like a por- poor.” In fact, this was probably said originally by a
cupine. If someone does not respond to your love, you Venus-Capricorn. However, it is far from telling the
may even become vindictive. (If you have the Sun in whole story. When in love, you are loyal, faithful, and
Libra or Sagittarius, however, the jealous drive is light- dependable. If you don’t marry rich, you work to give
ened.) Venus-Scorpios tend to become involved in lu- a mate security, and that includes material comforts.
crative marriages or business partnerships. You have a You may not be demonstrative and flowery, but what
sweeping compelling imagination, and many of you do you say you mean. There is a dichotomy between your
highly original artistic work. emotional life and your sexuality: You have earthy pas-

sions but keep them separate from your mental atti-
VENUS IN SAGITTARIUS Venus-Sagittarians begin tude. You can be sexually involved and detached at the

love affairs with a spirit of adventure. You like to expe- same time. Venus in this position indicates a personal-
rience the excitement of love in the same way you ity that is jealous, possessive, and fearful of rejection.
search for diversion in the rest of your life. First attrac- Once snubbed, Venus-Capricorn’s reaction is complete
tions are always wildly romantic; as a Venus-Sagittar- coldness.
ian you never seem to have commonplace or banal
love affairs. However, you cannot sustain the emotion, VENUS IN AQUARIUS Venus in Aquarius promotes a
and therefore never completely sacrifice your freedom kind and loving nature. You are helpful, charitable, and
to another person. What you want is the unobtain- giving, but you are not an emotional person. You have
able—perfect love—and even if you could find it you an intellectually detached attitude toward love. To you,
would shrink from being possessed by it. With such personal freedom is most important, and any relation-
contradictory attitudes, it’s no wonder you leave your ship must leave you free to explore varied interests and
lovers terminally puzzled. Basically, Venus-Sagittarians hobbies, meet new people, and enjoy a wide range of
are high-spirited, outgoing, and highly imaginative. friends. You cannot tolerate jealousy and will walk
You tend to attract powerful and influential friends away from emotional scenes. You believe in fairness
and find it much easier to deal with friends than with and openness. As a Venus-Aquarian, you are most
lovers. For one thing, friendship is less demanding. likely to have platonic friendships because sexual in-
Luck in creative affairs surrounds projects undertaken volvements are more emotionally binding than you
in foreign countries or far from home. like. You are immensely popular, and can attract a

2 5 0 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



great many lovers; often, however, you choose to direct You have an unfortunate penchant for choosing the
your personal magnetism toward larger concerns and wrong kind of lover, the kind who will take emotion-
more enduring verities than mere romance. Aquarius is ally but not give back. Venus-Pisceans often have a se-
the sign of hopes and wishes, and Venus in this sign cret love affair that causes them grief. You are com-
usually grants you what you dream of (though not un- pletely intuitive about love, never logical. No other
til midlife or later). position of Venus can be as self-sacrificing or places

more importance on the happiness of loved ones. You
VENUS IN PISCES As a Venus-Piscean you are inclined have true empathy for the problems of another person.

to have tender emotions and a deep capacity for devo- Venus also indicates an imaginative and creative artistic
tion. In love, you are gentle, kindhearted, extremely flair, which helps you to put your feelings into writing,
sensitive—and fickle. It is not that you mean to be in- acting, or music. Venus-Pisceans are so generous that
constant. It’s simply that being in love is such a won- money slips through their fingers.
derful feeling, and being loved makes you feel complete.

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 5 1



Mars
3

Mars is  the planet of physical energy. It gov- man god of war. Mars, whose name means “bright and
erns your sex drive, your forcefulness, and your ag- burning one,” was a warrior who exulted in battle and

gression. Mars is the planet that spurs you into action. strife. Aggressive and quarrelsome, he never hesitated be-
Are your sexual relationships ardent, tempestuous, and fore leaping into the fray.

quarrelsome? Do you lose your temper quickly, or do you In astrology Mars governs energy, boldness, the will to
simmer for a while and then explode? In a conflict do you win, the ability to turn ideas into action. It is the planet of
display cold contempt or heated anger? Is your willpower passion and sexuality and force. It signifies ambition and
strong or weak? Does competition bring out your fighting desire, courage and strength. A large part of the planet’s
spirit? domain are your sex impulses, for Mars governs the sex

To learn more about your assertive power, you must organs. Mars’s position in your chart indicates what stirs
study the position of Mars in your birth chart. your passions and whether you can get your own way. It

From early times Mars has excited and stirred the tells what kind of physical endurance you possess and how
imagination. Because of its red color, Mars has always accident-prone you are.
been known as a “fiery” planet. It is named after the Ro-

2 5 2 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



A n  A s t r o n o m i c a l  L o o k  at  M a r s

As we travel away from the Sun, Mars is the first planet whose orbit falls outside that of the Earth. It is the fourth planet
from the Sun (about 1411⁄4 million miles away). Mars is about half the size of the Earth, with a diameter of 4,200 miles
compared to Earth’s 8,000 miles. Like the Earth, it rotates on an axis, and its day is very near in length to ours,
approximately 24 hours and 371⁄2 minutes. However, a year on Mars (the length of time it takes to travel once around the
Sun) is 687 days, nearly twice Earth’s 3651⁄4 days.

We have seen Mars very clearly through telescopes and noted its craters and rock formations, and when Viking 1
landed there in 1976 it confirmed that the planet has a barren, desertlike landscape scattered with rocks. We also found
giant volcanoes, one of them over 15 miles high and 350 miles wide, and a 2,000-mile-long canyon. The planet has two
white caps in the polar regions (very like Earth’s North and South Poles), which we believe to be a mixture of ice water and
carbonic acid ice. In 1996 scientists analyzing rocks taken from Mars announced the discovery of markings that might be
microscopic fossils of a bacterialike organism that may have lived on Mars more than 3.6 billion years ago. Scientists
continue to debate whether these are traces of a primitive Martian life form.

From Earth, to the ordinary observer, the most striking and beautiful characteristic of Mars is its color. It glows with
red and ochre hues and is very bright in the heavens. Our space probes indicate that Mars’s surface material is iron oxide,
which accounts for its reddish color. The sky surrounding the planet is also a reddish-pink, most likely because of fine dust
particles stirred up by the wind. Once every fifteen years, Mars comes nearer to the Earth than any other planet except for
Venus. At that time Mars shines with a red splendor that rivals anything in the sky.

Mars’s influence also brings strife and conflict, tension discord in your sex relationships. You may be a strong
and anger, accidents and destruction. It rules heat, fire, leader, adventurous and pioneering, but may also be
earthquakes, violence, and war. The negative side of Mars’s quick-tempered, brash, impulsive, and impatient.
power can cause sudden injury or illness. In its highest form Mars represents your unleashed en-

When Mars is prominent in your chart you have a go- ergy and your human will. It is up to you to use this force
getting personality with enormous energy and a rugged constructively.
constitution. You tend to be enterprising, quick, and ac-
tive, and you hate to be ordered around. Depending on Where Is Your Mars?
how you use Mars’s force, you may be argumentative, To find out what sign Mars was in on the day of your
quarrelsome, and reckless and encounter a great deal of birth, consult the Mars Tables on page 497.

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 5 3



MARS IN ARIES Mars is in its natural home in Aries MARS IN GEMINI Mars in Gemini favors energetic ac-
(the sign that it rules), and emphasizes qualities of tivity of the mind. You are brilliantly intellectual, with
brilliance, force, and energy. As a Mars-Arien you are a steel-trap brain that quickly grasps concepts and
given self-confidence and force of character. Others spins new ideas. You are incisive and practical and ar-
always know how you feel about a subject because rive at conclusions in a flash. The problem is that you
you tell them in no uncertain terms. You are coura- lack force of will. You hesitate, vacillate, and think of
geous and honest, but the opposite side of the coin is yet another delay. In matters of sex, you experience de-
that you can be tactless, blunt, and combative. Your sire in the mind before it becomes a reality. You enjoy
passions are fiery and are quickly ignited. Active and the adventure leading up to lovemaking and have pas-
assertive in your sex life, you aggressively go after sions that are easily aroused. However, as soon as an
what you want (whether it’s a long-term lover or just affair loses zest and becomes ordinary you look for the
a bedmate for the night). The professions of big busi- escape hatch. You tend to have a number of affairs and
ness and politics are populated with Mars-Ariens, for marriages. Mars-Geminis are able to inspire and to
natives of this position have a domineering will to lead others through the power of the spoken and writ-
win. You are able to make others respond to your ten word. Often you have a magnetic voice and a com-
ideas. Your youthful springy appearance lasts a life- pelling talent to convince others of what you say.
time.

MARS IN CANCER Mars’s power turns subtle in Can-
MARS IN TAURUS If you have Mars in Taurus, you cer. You have great strength of will, but it is never

tend to triumph through your own determined and thrust into the open. Like the tides, you wear down op-
persistent efforts. Your vitality is a slow and steady position by repeated assault. Each wave may accom-
force that drives you on to success. Success to you plish little, but the accumulated effect is overpowering.
means money, material possessions, and true love. A In sex, Mars-in-Cancer’s approach is emotional. You
great deal of your energy is spent in sexual pursuits; are sensuous but refined, and your lovemaking is a
your passions are earthy and voluptuous. In love affairs highly intuitive art. Your passion, however, is depend-
you try to dominate and to possess, and the firmness ent on what is forthcoming from a lover. If a lover is
to your nature can become downright obstinate. Diffi- insensitive or unresponsive, he or she may find that
culties tend to arise because you are unwilling to see your get-up-and-go just got up and went. Yet, as a na-
anyone else’s point of view. Because of your tenacity, tive of this Mars placement, you will cling to a rela-
you have the power to create almost anything you can tionship that does not make you happy. You react only
envision. Sometimes a bent toward depression or tem- in outbursts of temper and nervous irritability. What
per tantrums mars your happiness. During your life- you often require is an outlet for your pent-up ener-
time you often accumulate money and are known as a gies. You are noted for your breadth of vision and
big spender. highly emotional work.

2 5 4 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



MARS IN LEO In Leo, Mars’s fire is accentuated. With (such as politicians, psychologists, and investigators).
this Mars position in your chart you are never ordi- When putting a plan into action you must beware of
nary. You make grand plans and possess the force and getting bogged down in detail.
drive to put them into action. No one else can grab the
attention and affection of others the way you can. You MARS IN LIBRA When Mars is in Libra the power of
also have a dramatic sex drive. Hot-blooded and im- this planet seems to fluctuate. You are impulsive and
pulsive, you are successful in sex relationships because sensuous in your sex drive. A great deal of your en-
of your dynamism. You must dominate in affairs and ergy is spent forming emotional relationships. Yet you
demand a great deal of attention, but you are also have a languid attitude toward sex and often must be
warm, expressive, ardent, and affectionate. You prefer sought after rather than be the aggressor. You are ide-
to make love in luxurious, rich surroundings. You are alistic and esthetic; crudeness of any kind turns you
creative at work, but at times can be overbearing, au- off. You prefer liaisons with cultivated, sophisticated
thoritative, and a bit condescending. Mars-Leos see lovers, but tend to become involved in unhappy sex
events in terms of themselves; it would never occur to relationships. This position of Mars is excellent for a
you to be an anonymous observer. You are lucky in unique artistic or literary talent. There is a great
speculation and gambling, and often attract powerful beauty and balance in your work. You have an envi-
friends. able ability to make a pleasing impression on the pub-

lic. Mars-Librans believe passionately in fair play. Your
MARS IN VIRGO As a Mars-in-Virgo person, you are a actions are always preceded by a careful weighing of

prodigious worker who finds your best success in a sys- the pros and cons.
tematized approach. You are ambitious and proud,
though this is not always apparent on the surface. Ex- MARS IN SCORPIO Mars in Scorpio underscores per-
tremely strong-willed, you can separate yourself from sistence and intensity. As a Mars-Scorpio you are a
your emotions when it comes to making decisions. In hard-driving and resourceful person whose strength is
your work you are shrewd, calculating, and quietly de- not so much shown in the heat of action as in determi-
termined. You suspect people who only want to deal nation and relentlessness. Your efforts are well disci-
with big problems because somehow such people never plined, always directed toward a purpose. There are no
seem to reach any useful conclusions. Mars-in-Virgo wasted movements or needless expenditures of energy.
may appear sexually cool, but in truth you glamorize You have a strong and deeply felt sexuality. However, it
sex. You want it to be both physically rapturous and is sometimes an emotional sexuality, displayed in jeal-
mentally exciting. Your passions are strong but kept ousy, anger, hurt feelings, and resentment. Though it is
under tight rein. Mars-Virgos tend to be successful in possible for you to be ruthless in your relationships,
professions where control of emotions is advantageous you are far more often simply quarrelsome and touchy.

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 5 5



This position of Mars enhances imagination and a usually do is channel your formidable power into the
powerful creative drive. You are always able to move an direction that serves you best. In their youth Mars-
audience. Often you are attracted to professions or sit- Capricorns often have a secret love affair with an older
uations that contain an element of danger or death. person. At some point in their lives, strong personal

ambition tends to project Mars-Capricorns into the
MARS IN SAGITTARIUS In Sagittarius, the power of public eye.

Mars exhibits itself in brilliant flashes. It promotes
courage, independence, and daring. Dashing and excit- MARS IN AQUARIUS In Aquarius, the energy of Mars
ing as your actions may be, you are easily distracted. is expressed on a mental plane. You are quick in your
Your attention becomes riveted to a new plan, and actions, but before you act you must be committed in-
your meteoric enthusiasm turns in that direction. This tellectually. You tend to be very people-oriented and
does not mean you do not accomplish anything, for involved in a variety of projects. There is an element of
you can produce remarkable results in a short time. reform or fighting for freedom in your outlook. High-
Passionate and sensual, you may have numerous affairs strung and unpredictable, you struggle between want-
because of your open, exploratory nature. You look on ing to do things alone and getting involved in group
emotional commitments as a form of personal restric- activities. There is also ambivalence in your sexual na-
tion. A sex relationship quickly begins, and just as ture. You have strong desires that are not always reach-
quickly ends. You tend to be impulsive and act rashly. able. You try to deal with sex relationships rationally,
Quick-witted in speech and writing, you have the and swing back and forth between passionate involve-
power to amuse and delight. You make a marvelous ment and detachment. You acknowledge sexual desire
first impression. but don’t want to be fettered by it. This sometimes

leads to your having a number of affairs (often simul-
MARS IN CAPRICORN Mars in Capricorn signifies taneously); that way, each affair can’t be a total com-

force and energy kept under control, to be used when mitment. As a Mars-Aquarian you have acute insights
necessary. As a person with this Mars position, you are into human nature.
fierce, magnetic, and commanding. Your strength lies
in your obstinacy and ability to endure. When obsta- MARS IN PISCES Pisces is an emotional sign, and your
cles block your path you run over them roughshod. strength with Mars in Pisces is your power to stir the
You have vigor and dynamic force, and also quiet self- feelings and grab the emotions. If you have this Mars
reliance. Your sexual nature is earthy and passionate, position you may be noted for your compelling imagi-
but the element of self-control marks your relation- nation. Many artists, writers, and actors have Mars in
ships. At times hot-blooded, sexy, even romantic, at Pisces. Enormously receptive to your environment, you
other times you are chilly and disinterested. What you store impressions in your subconscious and then pro-

2 5 6 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



duce them at the opportune time. You shoulder the re- ship, for this is a way in which you can draw closer to
sponsibilities of others without complaint. Intensity of another human being. You may suffer disappointment
feeling is evident in your sexuality. You are sensuous, in love. During your lifetime you attract influential
have deep passions, and display a high level of fervor. friends and gain monetarily from these associations.
You seek to involve yourself totally in a sex relation-

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 5 7



Jupiter
3

Jupiter is  the planet of good luck, optimism, ruler of the heavens, supreme god of gods. He was an all-
success, and generosity. Jupiter brings joy to life. powerful and benign guardian who symbolized honor,
Are you a generous person? Do you seem to attract good faith, and wisdom.

success through your close associations? Are you able to In astrology, the planet Jupiter is known as the Greater
turn your ideas into profit? Does your luck work for you Fortune (Venus is the Lesser Fortune). Jupiter’s kingdom
when you need it most? is luck, health and happiness, wealth and worldly goods,

If you answer yes to these questions, Jupiter is well as- power and high position. It rules over knowledge, higher
pected in your horoscope. The position of Jupiter in your learning, breadth of vision, and honesty. Its influence be-
birth chart can indicate where your fortunate opportuni- stows a willingness to partake of life, to gather new experi-
ties are to be found. This benevolent planet shows where ences. The knowledge that Jupiter imparts is on a philo-
you have the most room to expand and the areas in which sophical level, as opposed to the day-to-day cleverness that
you will get the best out of life. Mercury confers.

Jupiter has always been identified with the idea of ex- Jupiter’s position in your chart indicates how outgoing
pansiveness and abundance. In mythology, Jupiter was the and genial you are, whether you attract money and posses-

2 5 8 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



A n  A s t r o n o m i c a l  L o o k  at  Ju p i t e r

The fifth planet in our solar system is Jupiter, approximately 4831⁄2 million miles away from the Sun. It is our largest planet,
more than 300 times as massive as Earth, and has a diameter of 89,000 miles compared to the Earth’s 8,000. Jupiter is a
colossal world so big that it could contain the Earth and every other planet in our solar system, and still have lots of room
to spare. At certain times (every 13 months or so) Jupiter is the most brilliant object in the sky, shining with a flashing
white luster that rivals any star.

Jupiter completes its orbit around the Sun in a little under 12 years. Like the Earth, it rotates on its own axis, and for a
planet its size spins very quickly indeed. A day on Jupiter takes only nine hours and 501⁄2 minutes. Because it rotates so
rapidly, Jupiter has a noticeable bulge at the equator.

Astronomers have long noticed that the distances between the planets in our solar system follow a definite sequence or
formula (known as Bode’s Law). Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars all follow this sequence. However, between Mars and
Jupiter there is an enormous gap, and for years astronomers searched for a lost planet in this vacant space. On January 1,
1801, a very small body, an asteroid 485 miles in diameter, was discovered traveling in the orbit that was supposed to have
a planet. Since that time thousands more asteroids have been discovered in this area, which is now known as the asteroid
belt. One theory is that these particles are the result of the breaking up of an ancient planet in our solar system. Another
theory is that the asteroids are part of a planet that has not yet formed.

In 1973 Pioneer 10 discovered that Jupiter emits about twice the amount of heat that it receives from the Sun. Jupiter,
therefore, has an internal heat source and is, in effect, a miniature sun. The famous astronomer Carl Sagan called Jupiter a
“failed star,” meaning that Jupiter is made up of the same elements as our Sun (hydrogen and helium), but it does not have
planets the way our Sun does. However, it is theorized that Jupiter may once have been the center of its own planetary
system, and possibly the parent of Mars, Venus, Earth—and the lost planet that is now the asteroid belt.

In 1979 a new discovery about Jupiter was made when Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 sent back pictures of dusty rings
around the planet. (In the following ten years Voyager 2 found rings around Uranus and Neptune as well.)

In December 1995, after a six-year journey, a probe from our spacecraft Galileo landed on Jupiter. The probe sent back
thousands of detailed photographs of Jupiter’s hot surface, rings, and sixteen moons, until the probe was vaporized by
Jupiter’s extremely hot temperature: 3,400 degrees F.

sions, and in what career you will have the most luck. der. You will often find that Jupiter’s power comes to your
Jupiter signifies the good things that come to you easily and rescue at the last minute. However, it is also true that unless
with little effort—this is the planet of “free lunch.” It is said you put Jupiter’s gifts to good use and not waste them, they
that when Jupiter is working for you, you will never go un- can be taken away as quickly as they were given.

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 5 9



When Jupiter is prominent in your horoscope you tend and Sagittarius. Also, people who have those Sun signs
to be well liked and popular, friendly, broadminded, and are likely to bring you financial benefit.
cheerful, successful in career and business. (An interesting
sidelight: You will probably discover that a large number JUPITER IN TAURUS Jupiter and Taurus are very har-
of the people with whom you have an immediate rapport monious; Taurus is the money sign of the zodiac and
have Jupiter in the same sign as your Sun sign.) Jupiter brings abundance. You are successful in fields

Jupiter can also be too much of a good thing, for its in- where finances are prominent, such as banking and
fluence can make you extravagant, lazy and luxury-loving, stocks and bonds, and investments are likely to bring
profligate with money, and blindly optimistic. If things fall reward. You are conservative about the way you handle
into your lap too easily, you never develop strength of money; security is extremely important to you. (If
character or spiritual wisdom. Jupiter is afflicted, however, you will overspend on lux-

Jupiter is the planet of blessings—blessings we must uries for yourself; this is also true if Venus is promi-
learn to use wisely. nent in your chart.) As a Jupiter-Taurean you have an

eye for beauty and art. You tend to collect paintings
Where Is Your Jupiter? and sculpture, jewelry, and antiques that often increase
To find out what sign Jupiter was in on the day of your in value. In this sign, Jupiter bestows a lovely voice and

birth, consult the Jupiter Tables on page 501. artistic talent. Natives are also successful in careers
they conduct at home, such as writing, interior deco-

JUPITER IN ARIES Luck follows you in professions rating, and art collecting. Jupiter-Taureans tend to
where you can be your own boss. You are discontent marry well; career opportunity often comes to you
when you have to follow other people’s orders and, be- through the opposite sex. Your luckiest times of the
ing independent and brash, you immediately try to year are when the Sun is in the signs of Taurus, Virgo,
change that situation. Confident and enthusiastic, you and Capricorn.
are a natural leader capable of running organizations,
groups, social clubs, and businesses. You have original JUPITER IN GEMINI If you are a Jupiter-Gemini, you
ideas and make swifter progress by relying on your are blessed with an adventurous attitude and a knack
own opinions and abilities. You can be a bit bullying for getting into advantageous situations. Though you
and are sometimes quite extravagant in your spending. don’t necessarily look for moneymaking opportunities,
This position of Jupiter fosters an ability to win over these usually come to you through the many friends
influential people and obtain their help in your career. and contacts that you acquire. You achieve best success
Jupiter-Ariens often achieve high rank in politics, liter- in intellectual areas, such as teaching, lecturing, diplo-
ature, science, and the military. Your luckiest times of matic careers, and law. You would also do well in the
the year are when the Sun is in the signs of Aries, Leo, airline industry. Gemini is the sign of communication,

2 6 0 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



and if your Jupiter is in Gemini you profit financially you are well suited for the theater, television and
in ventures where communicating is prominent—pub- movies, politics, advertising, and public relations. Your
lishing, magazine writing, TV reporting or commentat- full potential is achieved through leadership; you are
ing, and acting. As a Jupiter-in-Gemini person you are wretchedly unhappy if forced to stay on the lowest
versatile and clever, and often you make a name for rung. You think big, are ambitious, and have a pen-
yourself in more than one profession. A change in vo- chant for grandeur and extravagant display. In profes-
cation at one point in your life is almost certain. Your sions where this is useful, such as the entertainment in-
luckiest times of the year are when the Sun is in the dustry, the world of fashion, and high-powered selling
signs of Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius. jobs, you are predestined to succeed. The problem is

that success may come too easily. In that event, Jupiter-
JUPITER IN CANCER This is one of the luckiest posi- Leos can become boastful and power-hungry. Fortu-

tions Jupiter can be in. As a Jupiter-Cancerian you have nately, this does not happen often, for Jupiter gives you
a wonderful disposition, are good-humored, funny, personal charm and warmhearted vitality. Other peo-
and optimistic. You are popular wherever you go, and ple want to do things for you, and you often benefit
this opens many doors for you. Retentive Cancer is a from influential friends. Your luckiest times of the year
sign that holds on to money; people with Jupiter in are when the Sun is in the signs of Leo, Sagittarius, and
this sign are lucky with investments, real estate, inheri- Aries.
tances, and the stock market. You are imaginative and
sympathetic, and do well in creative pursuits. Old JUPITER IN VIRGO Jupiter in the practical sign of
things have a special appeal to you; you would be suc- Virgo gives you a capacity for making a success of a
cessful in the antique business and museum work. hobby or a pastime. Many famous Jupiter-Virgos start
Anything involving food and drink also brings luck; out with a shoestring and build empires. If you have
many of you make successful chefs, restaurateurs, and this Jupiter position you are smart, analytical, and per-
cookbook writers. You will probably acquire enough severing. You figure out the surest route to the largest
material possessions by the time you reach middle age dividends. The power of Jupiter surrounds you in in-
to ensure that your later years are peaceful and secure. tellectual pursuits, but the difference between Jupiter-
You make excellent parents and your children tend to Virgos and other intellectual signs is that Virgos have
bring you benefits. Your luckiest times of the year are an uncommon amount of common sense. You are also
when the Sun is in the signs of Cancer, Scorpio, and superb at handling detail and do your best work a step
Pisces. at a time. You would make a successful teacher, ac-

countant, literary critic, journalist, or news commenta-
JUPITER IN LEO Jupiter in Leo bestows an extraordi- tor. Your ability to grasp facts and then apply them sys-

nary public appeal. If you are a native of this position tematically makes careers in the fields of space

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 6 1



technology, science, and medicine accessible to you. portunity because of sexual liaisons. Scorpio is the sign
Your luckiest times of the year are when the Sun is in of death and regeneration, and Jupiter in this sign pro-
the signs of Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn. motes skill in medicine, surgery, and therapy. You pos-

sess shrewdness in money matters, and many of you
JUPITER IN LIBRA Jupiter in this sign bestows a mag- have a Midas touch for picking lucrative investments.

netic and charming personality. Luck comes to you Sometimes you benefit from inheritances during your
through your artistic talents and your eye for beauty lifetime. Your luckiest times of the year are when the
and harmony. Many of you are talented musicians, Sun is in the signs of Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces.
painters, interior decorators, fashion designers, and art
collectors. You have a knack for getting your talent on JUPITER IN SAGITTARIUS Sagittarius is the sign that
display and winning friends in high places. You like to Jupiter rules, and the planet’s expansive, generous
entertain, and many of your allies are won in the re- qualities are emphasized. With this Jupiter position,
laxed and genial atmosphere you are able to create. you are a person who likes to live well; you have a free
More than natives of any other Jupiter position, you hand when it comes to spending. Fortunately, you usu-
benefit from marriage. Marriage often brings social ally attract financial luck. No other Jupiter position au-
position and wealth, and sometimes an entrée into the gurs as much success in this area. As a native, you have
business world. Jupiter-Librans are most successful in an instinct for turning ideas into cash; you think big
partnerships; you should never start a business com- and profit accordingly. You also tend to marry well,
pletely on your own. Your finely balanced reason and and many of you inherit money. Jupiter in Sagittarius,
impartiality would make you an excellent judge, though, does not make the personality crass or materi-
lawyer, or diplomat. Your luckiest times of the year are alistic. You are high-minded and idealistic. You will of-
when the Sun is in the signs of Gemini, Libra, and ten give up a well-paying position if it doesn’t suit
Aquarius. your inner calling. Gifted with great intellectual capac-

ity, you are drawn to professions in law, government,
JUPITER IN SCORPIO Jupiter in Scorpio is a very diplomacy, and the world of literature and philosophy.

powerful influence on willpower and personal magnet- Your luckiest times of the year are when the Sun is in
ism. If you have this Jupiter position you tend to be the signs of Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius.
successful in artistic work. Many Jupiter-Scorpios excel
at ferreting out hidden information. This would make JUPITER IN CAPRICORN In the strong, materialistic
you an excellent psychiatrist, researcher, politician, or sign of Capricorn, Jupiter’s power is expressed through
security agent in government. Luck comes to you ambition. As a native of this placement, you gain high
through your strong attraction for the opposite sex. position in life through hard work and fierce
Often the door is opened to career and financial op- willpower. Capricorn is an earth sign, and Jupiter’s in-

2 6 2 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



fluence is propitious for enterprises that involve earth become well known in that world. One of the nicest
in some way: mining, construction, land development, benefits of Jupiter in this sign is that you bring luck to
real estate, and the oil industry. Success isn’t a flash in others. You have a sharp intuition about human nature
the pan with you. It is achieved gradually, but over the coupled with idealism. The most auspicious times of
long term you tend to reach the top because you are the year for you are when the Sun is in the signs of
disciplined. Jupiter in Capricorn confers an instinct for Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius.
business; you are a canny trader and tend to handle fi-
nances conservatively. Others may notice a curious JUPITER IN PISCES Jupiter is strong here because it
mixture of economy and extravagance in your spend- endows you with the power to appeal to the emotions.
ing habits. You may pinch nickels but will be lavish Work in which you deal directly with others, especially
with large sums. This can be useful in business: You are where there is a high level of feeling, will bring success.
able to keep to a budget but are not afraid to spend This is especially true for those of you who enter the
when you have to. The luckiest times of the year for healing arts. Jupiter also accentuates imagination, wis-
you are when the Sun is in the signs of Taurus, Virgo, dom, and high ideals. In general, you do your best
and Capricorn. work in fields in which you help humanity. Jupiter-

Pisceans are singled out for success in social or reli-
JUPITER IN AQUARIUS Jupiter in Aquarius con- gious work, politics, and philanthropic organizations.

tributes to a magnetic ability to win friends. You usu- Work that involves travel over water brings other op-
ally find good fortune through your friends and unex- portunities into your life. You also have a deft touch
pected opportunities. Aquarius is also the sign of the with animals, would make a fine veterinarian, and
future, and as a native of this Jupiter position you tend many of you have lucrative businesses breeding horses,
to be successful in professions of the modern era— owning cattle ranches, and raising cats and dogs for
television, computers, electronics, aviation, and the show. Jupiter in Pisces usually grants you your secret
space industry. You easily become bored when the sole ambition. You attract fortune because of your likeable-
purpose of an activity is to make money. You usually ness and popularity. The luckiest times of the year for
find your best opportunity in professions where a you are when the Sun is in the signs of Cancer, Scor-
broader view is necessary. You are also endowed with a pio, and Pisces.
special aptitude for music, and many Jupiter-Aquarians

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 6 3



Saturn
3

Saturn is  the planet of responsibility and sym- was the father of Jupiter, Neptune, and Pluto. Saturn was
bolizes the ethic of hard work. Under its influence a also a symbol for Father Time, for he brought to an end

person’s character is strengthened through trial and diffi- all things that had a beginning.
culty. It has been said that Saturn disciplines us until we In astrology Saturn is the planet of diligence, selfcon-
can learn to discipline ourselves. trol, and limitation. Its domain is patience, stability, matu-

Are you able to stick with a task until you have it com- rity, and realism. Its influence is stern and restrictive, cold
pleted? Do you at times feel beset by problems or see ob- and severe.
stacles at every turn? Would other people call you stub- Saturn is called the Celestial Taskmaster, for it teaches
born? Have you sometimes felt lonely and depressed? us the lessons we must learn in life. In the grand plan of

If you answer yes, then you have felt the presence of the universe, Saturn does not give us more than we can
Saturn in your life. handle. Under Saturn’s influence we achieve by overcom-

The planet is named after the Roman titan-god who ing obstacles and hardship. Sometimes the effort itself is

2 6 4 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



A n  A s t r o n o m i c a l  L o o k  at  Sat u r n

Until the end of the eighteenth century Saturn was the most remote planet in our solar system. It is the sixth planet from
the Sun, over 887 million miles away—almost twice as far from the Sun as Jupiter is. Saturn is a large planet (second only
to Jupiter), measuring over 75,000 miles at its equator compared to Earth’s 8,000 miles. Saturn moves very slowly around
the Sun, taking 291⁄2 years to complete one orbit. For such a large planet it spins with great velocity on its own axis: A day
on Saturn is only 10 hours and 14 minutes.

To the ordinary observer here on Earth, Saturn shines with a steady, yellowish light, rather dim compared to brilliant
Jupiter. In ancient days Saturn was considered the least interesting planet of all, since it does not have Venus’s soft
luminosity, Mars’s red color, or Jupiter’s radiance.

The ancients were wrong about Saturn’s lack of interest as a celestial body. We only recently discovered that Saturn is a
multihued planet, with bands of yellow, golden-brown, and reddish-brown on its surface. Saturn is now considered our
most interesting planet because of its dramatic rings.*

First seen in 1610 by Galileo through his telescope, these bright and dark rings circle Saturn at its equator in a
magnificent spectacle. Until 1969 astronomers believed there were only three rings; in that year a fourth ring was
discovered, shortly followed by the observation of a fifth and sixth ring.

Then, in November 1980, America’s space probe Voyager 1 swept by Saturn and sent back to Earth pictures of this
astronomical wonder that went far beyond our imagination. There were not six, but thousands of separate ringlets—like
the grooves in a phonograph record 170,000 miles wide. Voyager 1’s photographs showed there are rings within rings, like
concentric ripples in a cosmic pond. The rings are made up of swarms of icy particles, ranging in size from snowballs to a
few giant chunks the size of mountains. One of the largest rings, what we call the F-ring, is composed of twisted strands of
ice, each 500 miles long, entwined into a gigantic braid.

When Voyager 2 flew by Saturn in August 1981 the spacecraft reported that a cloud of gases circling the planet is 300
times hotter than the Sun’s corona! This is the hottest spot ever detected in the solar system. In June 2004 the Cassini
spacecraft is expected to arrive at Saturn and begin orbiting the planet over a four-year period. Astronomers continue to
study the complex and “mind-boggling” (as one expressed it) data that our space probes are giving us about this
spectacular planet.

*Saturn’s rings were once thought to be unique in our solar system, but we now know that Saturn is not the only planet that has rings. In
1979, Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 flew by Jupiter, sending back evidence of dusty rings around that planet. In 1986, Voyager 2 found nine dark rings
around Uranus. In 1989, Voyager 2 discovered that Neptune has five rings.

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 6 5



the reward, for effort is what builds character. In the end, Where Is Your Saturn?
what we learn under Saturn’s influence we keep for the

To find out what sign Saturn was in on the day of your
rest of our lives.

birth, consult the Saturn Tables on page 506.
Saturn’s position in your chart indicates how well you

accept responsibility, whether you are self-disciplined, and
SATURN IN ARIES Saturn brings delay to Aries, the

what delays and opposition you can expect to encounter.
sign of initiative, and the result is confusion. If you are

When its influence is prominent you tend to be reliable,
a Saturn-Arien, you can be strong and powerful one

trustworthy, and patient. Saturn gives the power to endure
minute and irresolute and wavering the next. This po-

and provides the tenacity and perseverance to realize your
sition is not an easy one, for you must continually

potential.
fight against obstacles placed in your way. Many of you

Saturn’s effect is to delay rewards until they are earned.
achieve success, but not without disappointment and

It perfects human nature while it bestows an ability to
setback. Saturn in Aries makes you ambitious and de-

wait. It is the planet of courage, steadfastness, and in-
termined, and promotes your power to control other

tegrity.
people. On the negative side, Saturn-Ariens can be

Many people shrink from accepting its burdens, but
stubborn, dictatorial, and sometimes solitary and

Saturn is not to be feared. If you look into your past, you
grumpy. In general, your hardest times come early in

will probably see that you have achieved lasting strength
life. It is then that you develop the strength of charac-

and satisfaction from triumphing over obstacles.
ter that serves you well in later years. As you grow

As a negative influence, Saturn can make a person
older, each year brings less struggle and more success.

overly ambitious, calculating and selfish, solitary, inhib-
Natives of this Saturn position tend to suffer from

ited, and unhappy. Its negative influence is associated with
headaches and dental problems.

inflexibility, cruelty, humorlessness, and pessimism. Saturn
also represents illness, handicaps, and misfortune.

SATURN IN TAURUS In Taurus, the obstinate and
Keep in mind, however, that Saturn is only one of

tenacious qualities of Saturn are emphasized. With this
many influences in a chart. Obviously, it is an important

Saturn position you are determined and capable, and
influence, but Saturn’s power is not necessarily felt in an

take responsibility seriously. Your strong willpower
overwhelming way.

borders on stubbornness and rigidity. You usually try
In its symbolic form, Saturn is our destiny. It rules fate,

to amass possessions and wealth because of your un-
the things we cannot escape, and the payment we must

derlying fear that you will be left alone and bereft,
make for what we receive.

without material resources or love. Unfortunately, Sat-
urn in Taurus does not predict an easy time financially.
Money tends to come in slowly and to be dissipated
along the way. You tend to spend a lot of effort trying

2 6 6 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



to put away the savings, stocks, bonds, and real estate and strive to find material wealth to make your life se-
you feel you must have. As a result, you are sometimes cure. The obstacles that Saturn places in your path are
considered materialistic and selfish. However, once you insecurity and lack of confidence. Sometimes your
achieve material comfort (usually later in life), you are early life is marked by problems with parents, espe-
generous to others in need, for you understand what it cially a mother. Many of you Saturn-Cancerians had to
means not to have enough. Saturn in this position take on family responsibility at a very young age. Na-
makes you susceptible to colds, sore throats, and thy- tives of this position tend to marry someone older in
roid problems. an effort to find an anchor and stability. Saturn endows

you with good business sense, although you must be
SATURN IN GEMINI Gemini is a good home for Sat- cautious in dealings with relatives. The negative side of

urn. This versatile sign’s intellectual qualities are empha- Saturn in Cancer is a tendency to melancholy and self-
sized by Saturn. With Saturn in Gemini, you have a pity. You are prone to digestive and stomach problems;
sharp mind that is deepened with understanding under if you are not careful, you can become quite over-
this planet’s steadying influence. You can, however, be weight.
cynical and sarcastic, skeptical and coldhearted. Much
more likely, you have a happy combination of native SATURN IN LEO Restrictive Saturn and the expansive
wisdom and a youthful wish to learn. Saturn-Geminis sign of Leo are not in harmony. Saturn in Leo is likely
sometimes have a difficult childhood during which you to bring a chill to the emotions and disappointment in
suffer loneliness or sorrow. You may have a hard time love. There are, however, many good points to this Sat-
obtaining an education. Later in life, you are likely to en- urn position: You are proud and strong-willed, self-as-
counter obstacles while traveling. However, Saturn en- sured and authoritative. You are good at organizing
dows you with a good head for finances, and also a mu- people and assuming responsibility. As a Saturn-Leo,
sical ability. You prosper when engaged in work that you have an instinct for knowing how to draw a public
requires both patience and intelligence. Saturn-Geminis to you. You are inclined to be cold and analytical in
are susceptible to ailments of the chest and lungs. choosing your associations, though you are subtle

enough to keep this from being obvious to the casual
SATURN IN CANCER Saturn encourages too much de- observer. You fear appearing mediocre and ordinary,

pendence on others in this emotional and clinging and you hide feelings of envy and jealousy because this
sign. As a Saturn-Cancerian, you love to overindulge in is a weakness you will never admit to. You strive to
eating, drinking, and other sensual pleasures. In this make a dramatic impression, but tend to be suspicious
position, though, Saturn also gives a shrewdness and of compliments and dislike excessive displays of affec-
tenacity to your personality. You are superb at seeing a tion. In your career you often rise to great heights, but
task through to completion. You are also ambitious Saturn in Leo has a way of causing a downfall when

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 6 7



you are at the peak. Natives of this position are suscep- happiness with a mate. Sometimes an early love affair
tible to high blood pressure and heart ailments. turns out to be the love of your life but ends in loss.

Saturn in Libra may suppress the desire to share and
SATURN IN VIRGO The responsible planet Saturn and be close to another person, which often results in lone-

the conscientious sign of Virgo work well together. liness. In general, this is an excellent position for suc-
This Saturn position heightens Virgo’s intellectual abil- cess in public life, and also for a strong showing in
ity and practical turn of mind. You are methodical and artistic pursuits. It has been said that if your Saturn is
organized, willing to work hard to achieve goals. To in Libra, you will only get into trouble when you are
you, theory and practice are one and the same; you doing what you ought not to be doing. Saturn-Librans
immediately put what you learn into use. Saturn does are susceptible to back injuries and kidney problems.
place hardship in your path, usually early in life when
you must sometimes cope with sorrow, disappoint- SATURN IN SCORPIO Saturn is powerful in this secre-
ment, or frail health. You can become bogged down in tive and passionate sign, lending subtlety and force to
trivialities because you are a stickler for details. You are the personality. As a native of this position you under-
also capable of becoming a petty tyrant when others stand human motivation, which enables you to control
don’t see things your way. Saturn gives you wisdom others. Your dominating strength is often hidden un-
but not necessarily vision. Too often you see the dark der a pleasant and genial exterior. Saturn, however,
side of life and fear the unknown—that is, what you places obstacles in your path in the form of emotional
cannot categorize and control. On the plus side, Saturn difficulties and sometimes scandal. You tend to be
endows you with an ability to make money, especially drawn to secret love affairs that bring sorrow or trou-
in real estate. Natives of this Saturn position are vul- ble into your life. When you achieve power you some-
nerable to intestinal upsets and ulcers. times undergo a downfall because of rumor and gos-

sip. When young you often have health problems, but
SATURN IN LIBRA Libra is a favorable sign for Saturn. you get through this and tend to live to a ripe old age.

As a Saturn-Libran you are gifted with good judgment This is an excellent planetary position for executive
and an instinct for making the right impression on ability and an unswerving commitment to a goal. Your
others. You know when to be aggressive and when to strong will can become inflexible. Once you set on a
be diplomatic. Though it is part of Saturn’s lessons to course, you see it through to the end. You are prone to
bring some sorrow and disappointment in relation- secret brooding, but there is usually a touch of dry Sat-
ships, you usually benefit from the stability of mar- urnian humor to relieve it. Saturn-Scorpios are liable
riage. However, there may be a divorce before you find to suffer the loss of loved ones early in life.

2 6 8 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



SATURN IN SAGITTARIUS In Sagittarius, Saturn has don’t listen to advice. However, you do learn from ex-
the effect of delaying success until the lessons of pa- perience. As a child you may have been insecure and
tience and perseverance are learned. You may en- timid, but as you grow older you gain in authority.
counter adversity and setbacks early in life, and often Loneliness and an inability to share is a running thread
must work hard and long to receive what is due you. throughout your life. Many of you are prone to melan-
However, as you get older you acquire wisdom, vision, choly, but you usually have a witty, dry sense of humor.
and a depth of understanding that fashions you into a Generally, you attract faithful friends, but Saturn in
leader. Saturn gives your mind a philosophical bent; Capricorn tends to bring disappointment in love. Na-
you can usually face up to what life offers because you tives of this Saturn position are prone to aches in the
put your faith in the long-term outcome. This is an ex- joints and knees.
cellent position for success in law, politics, writing, and
foreign affairs. Saturn, however, emphasizes Sagittar- SATURN IN AQUARIUS In the humanitarian sign of
ius’s tactlessness and cynical point of view. It is possi- Aquarius, Saturn’s qualities of trustworthiness and self-
ble you may suffer a blow to your reputation because discipline are well placed. As a Saturn-Aquarian, you
of something heedless you have said. As a Saturn- have a talent for dealing with people and appealing to
Sagittarian you experience inner conflict between your the masses. Many of you achieve fame in both the en-
need for order and security and your desire to seek ad- tertainment world and politics because of this ability.
venture and challenge. Natives of this Saturn position Saturn in Aquarius enhances a rational and original
are susceptible to accidents involving the hips and mind, capable of learning and study. Like those with
thighs. Saturn in the other fixed signs of Taurus, Leo, and

Scorpio, you are likely to encounter obstacles and diffi-
SATURN IN CAPRICORN Saturn rules the sign of culties early in life, but you tend to gain the wisdom

Capricorn, and thus its power is strong here. Both the and maturity that serve you well as you get older. You
positive and negative qualities of Saturn are powerfully like to run the show and get your own way, and you are
emphasized in you. You are ambitious and independ- clever about manipulating people so you can. You can
ent, dedicated and unswerving, but your methods can be obstinate and cunning at the same time. Saturn
be dictatorial and overbearing and you may sometimes gives you the aggressiveness to take leadership, but you
be thought of as selfish and mean. Saturn puts many know how to avoid rubbing others the wrong way. You
obstacles in your path, and you learn early in life to be have humor and wit, though your need for independ-
self-sufficient. You want to do everything yourself. It ence sometimes leads to a lonely life. Natives of this
would be easier to take a cub away from a mother bear Saturn position are prone to injuries to the lower legs
than a task away from a Saturn-Capricorn. You also and ankles.
have an instinct for doing things the hard way; you

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 6 9



SATURN IN PISCES Saturn in the mystical sign of an inferior position even though your talents are supe-
Pisces does not favor material success. What you gain rior. In time you can change this, but you must first
in life are sagacity and discernment. Your vivid imagi- develop the courage and determination to do so. Pisces
nation can be translated into creative work; your sym- is the sign of self-undoing, and your greatest power
pathy and intuition enable you to draw others to your- comes when you learn not to be the cause of your own
self. However, more than people of any other Saturn unhappiness. You are drawn to philosophy, writing,
position, you are sensitive to the woes and harshness of and teaching of a spiritual or occult nature. Natives of
the world. Saturn often brings disappointment and this Saturn placement are vulnerable to ailments and
loss; the way it does so for you is to force you to make problems involving the feet.
personal sacrifices for others or dictate that you take

2 7 0 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



Uranus
3

Uranus is  the planet of change and originality, you to know the sign that Uranus occupies in your horo-
symbolizing the element of surprise in your life. scope in order to see where your own originality and spe-

Uranus brings about sudden events and opportunities. It cial self-expression can best be utilized.
awakens, shocks, and revolutionizes. It is responsible for Uranus was not known to the ancients, for the planet
the flash of human genius that creates something new— was discovered only in 1781. Uranus is the first of the three
whether it be in art or science. modern planets, and the first ever to be found through a

Do you often take an action that has no rhyme or rea- telescope. On March 13, 1781, at Bath, England, the British
son? Are you attracted to an unusual line of work or to court astronomer Sir William Herschel discovered what he
odd, colorful people? Do you feel that you are a more in- thought was a comet. After a year of careful observation,
ventive thinker than those around you? Do you take an in- he verified that this heavenly body was a new planet in our
terest in modern science and the latest discoveries in the solar system.
world? Are you known for your startling pronouncements Herschel named the planet Georgium Sidus (Star of
or being an unusual character? George) in honor of King George III of England, but the

A person who has a strong Uranus in his or her birth name never caught on. For a while it was called Herschel,
chart will answer yes to these questions. It is important for and finally was changed to Uranus. (The letter H, for Her-

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 7 1



schel, is still embodied in the symbol for Uranus:.) tric in behavior, undisciplined, reckless, and perverse. He

Uranus was the Roman sky god, the first ruler of the or she may be difficult to get along with because of an

universe. In astrology Uranus is the planet of the future, abrupt manner, rebelliousness, or unpredictable moods.

associated with modern science, invention, electricity, hu- In addition to having a personal meaning in your horo-

manitarian movements, and revolution. It is the planet of scope, Uranus is one of three planets in astrology that

sudden upheaval and swift, unexpected happenings. Its have a generational influence. The three modern planets,

domain is all that is new, original, different, and un- Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto, are so far away from the Sun

orthodox. that they travel very slowly through the zodiac. They

Uranus relates to your inner will and your secret power. spend a long time in each of the signs: Uranus takes seven

In certain respects its power is similar to that of Mars. The years to transit one sign, Neptune spends fourteen years in

difference is that Uranus is a deep-seated energy within one sign, and Pluto takes from thirteen to thirty-two years

the personality, an unconscious purpose that is revealed to go through one sign. Astrologers believe that these

over a lifetime. As the great astrologer Evangeline Adams planets influence a whole generation as well as individuals.

explains, a person can be powerful even if he or she is Uranus was first discovered at the time of the industrial

physically crippled, and another person may have enor- revolution, the beginning of the modern age. The planet’s

mous energy that he or she scatters about to no purpose. journey through the zodiac corresponds with the new dis-

The first person has a strong Uranus and an afflicted coveries of science. For example, between 1996 and 2003,

Mars. The second has a powerful Mars and a weak Uranus traveled through the sign of Aquarius, the sign

Uranus. that it rules. Aquarius represents the airwaves, space, free-

Uranus’s position in your chart indicates whether you dom of opinion and far-flung communication. During

have an inventive or unconventional mind and if you are Uranus’s transit, the computer and micro-technology lit-

attracted to odd and peculiar ideas. It designates what erally took charge of every aspect of our lives—how we

kind of genius you possess, whether you encounter un- communicate, do business, file information. Indeed, the

usual circumstances in work, travel, and relationships, and world is run by the microchip, and scientists say the com-

your propensity for sudden and dramatic events that mark puter has changed the very way human beings think.

your life. Uranus is the ruler of the new Age we are in, the Age of

If Uranus is prominent in your horoscope, you are in- Aquarius (see chapter 13).

clined to be independent and resourceful. You may dress Uranus brings change into our lives, new situations,

in an unusual manner, create your own style, and invent and new people. Its gifts are always sudden and

new gadgets. People may be attracted to you because of ephemeral; you have to take immediate advantage of them

your “far-out” point of view. You may even be psychic. before they flash by. The message of Uranus is to move

Uranus is the guiding force behind the visionary. with change and not be afraid of the future.

Uranus’s influence also tends to make a person eccen-

2 7 2 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



A n  A s t r o n o m i c a l  L o o k  at  U r a n u s

Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sun, and is 1,784,800,000 miles distant from the Sun. Uranus is four times larger
than the Earth, with a diameter of almost 32,000 miles compared to Earth’s 8,000. Its orbit around the Sun is an almost
perfect circle, and it takes 84 years and 7 days to complete one journey. It spins very quickly on its own axis, however; a
day on Uranus lasts only 10 hours and 49 minutes. This means that there are 68,000 Uranian days in one Uranian year!

Uranus tilts rather oddly on its axis, inclined at an angle only eight degrees from being horizontal. In other words, it
practically lies on its side. The Sun, therefore, shines first on one pole and then on the other pole (depending on where
Uranus is in its orbit), while the opposite pole is in complete darkness. When the South Pole has sunlight, the North Pole
is plunged into darkness, and vice versa; each of these periods of night and day on Uranus lasts for 21 Earth years. Uranus
also rotates on its axis in a direction contrary to the other planets in our solar system. On Uranus, the Sun rises in the west
and sets in the east.

These unusual characteristics of Uranus correspond to the planet’s astrological reputation for eccentricity. Uranus has
been called the black sheep of the solar system.

When Voyager 2 flew by Uranus in January, 1986, it photographed ten previously undiscovered moons (bringing the
total to fifteen), and two new rings around the planet (bringing this total to eleven). Voyager 2 also discovered a corkscrew-
shaped magnetic field around Uranus that stretches for millions of miles.

Where Is Your Uranus? fused or disorganized thinking. You immediately try to
put your own ideas into action and have little patience

To find out what sign Uranus was in on the day of your with tried-and-true methods. You believe that people

birth, consult the Uranus Tables on page 510. who play it safe are usually sorry. Often you have an
inimitable style of dressing, a look all your own. You

URANUS IN ARIES Uranus in the active sign of Aries tend to change jobs or residences often and are fond of

favors an original and inventive mind. You need to be traveling.

in charge and, given the chance, you will run other
people’s lives. You can be brusque and blunt because URANUS IN TAURUS Uranus is very strong in Taurus

you feel that you know better than others. What you and its influence promotes willpower and determina-

want is to see things clearly and not be a victim of con- tion. Uranus in Taurus helps you to produce results

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 7 3



through patient and concerted effort. You have a need ters. Uranus in Cancer also promotes success through
to build, to be constructive, and to achieve. You tend to home-oriented activities, such as gourmet cooking,
be blessed with financial luck, particularly with posses- collecting antiques, and interior decorating. Many of
sions that gain in value. Often you have a mania for you have a reputation for being eccentric and unpre-
owning new and different objects, and Uranus some- dictable and for having an artistic temperament.
times brings a sudden find into your life. A taste for
bright colors and vivid patterns is evident in the way URANUS IN LEO Uranus exerts a formidable influence
you dress and decorate. Uranus in Taurus usually indi- in the expansive sign of Leo. As a native of this posi-
cates a happy and prosperous marriage. tion, you have a forceful personality and express your-

self through leadership. You have a desire to be a hero
URANUS IN GEMINI In Gemini, Uranus shows its or heroine. Your creative mind constantly spins new

power through ideas. You are intellectual and imagina- ideas, but you are not content merely to see your con-
tive. You possess a magnetic mind that draws people to cepts carried out. You must be on display as well; you
you, and you have the ability to sway others to your want the credit and the attention. Uranus in this posi-
point of view. Your energy is forceful in mental pur- tion often brings sudden opportunity through roman-
suits. You are attracted to offbeat ideas and fascinated tic relationships. Uranus also takes you far afield in
by psychic phenomena and unexplained events. your search for new and different pleasures. You tend
Uranus in Gemini produces a strong urge to express to have luck in gambling, especially on sporting events.
yourself in writing and speaking and to create some- At times you give an impression of being too defiant
thing striking and startling. Even in ordinary commu- and independent.
nication, such as phone calls and letters, you are origi-
nal and captivating and your amusing way with words URANUS IN VIRGO In Virgo, Uranus shows its power
is evident. You enjoy traveling, easily pick up foreign in the ability to analyze and use facts. Uranus in Virgo
languages, and have an aptitude for music. bestows a marvelous combination of intuition and

common sense. You have a great need to improve the
URANUS IN CANCER In Cancer, the power of Uranus world. You seek complete autonomy when carrying

is expressed through heightened sensitivity to other out your ideas, and rebel against routine and the re-
people. You have a highly developed imagination and a strictions of others. Your independence is sometimes
subconscious that borders on psychic awareness. Your so marked as to be considered eccentric by others.
intuitions can be trusted. Valuable insights come to Uranus brings you luck through sudden changes in
you through sudden and unexpected feelings that ar- work situations, often a reshuffling of staff or a com-
rive in a flash. You receive opportunities through the plete relocation to a new place. Uranus-Virgos are
intervention of other people, often in chance encoun- known for unusual ideas about health and food. You

2 7 4 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



are the first one to know all about the latest reducing URANUS IN SAGITTARIUS In the freedom-loving
or rejuvenating diet. sign of Sagittarius, Uranus exhibits itself as pioneering

and adventurous. You are very independent and rebel
URANUS IN LIBRA In the harmonious sign of Libra, against anything overly organized and structured. At

Uranus expresses its power through partnerships. As a times you are restless and quite reckless. You are proud
native of this position, you are drawn to unusual rela- and courageous and often have an unconventional
tionships and are often thought of as unconventional point of view. Though you don’t necessarily seek it,
in your choice of friends or lovers. Uranus brings you Uranus promotes financial luck through investments
luck through your relationships and also many oppor- and speculation. Often while traveling, unexpected
tunities through persons of foreign birth. In this events or new people bring opportunity into your life.
Uranus position, love affairs and marriages tend to be- Uranus in this position also endows you with
gin quickly and to have abrupt endings. Libra is an prophetic vision and insight, and you can often tell
artistic sign, and Uranus bestows style and imagina- when something important is about to happen.
tion. You are known for your unusual or exotic taste in
art and decoration. You possess an appealing charm in URANUS IN CAPRICORN Uranus’s energy is chan-
the way you present yourself or dress. Uranus confers neled into constructive effort in the disciplined sign of
an ability to make a memorable first impression. Capricorn. You have a strong inner will to succeed. You

need to be in authority and have difficulty accepting
URANUS IN SCORPIO Uranus is strong in the intense the rule of other people. Uranus in this position signals

sign of Scorpio. You have a dominating quality that unexpected shifts in career or working conditions. You
wells up from deep within you. You possess a magnetic have an ability to spot future trends and to move in a
sexuality that is sometimes known as star quality. You more lucrative direction. Uranus gives you confidence
are blessed with a penetrating mind. You are able to to break through old established ideas. You are
bring concentration and willpower to bear, and thus thoughtful, forceful, and able to organize people. You
can move mountains through sheer effort. Uranus can also be tyrannical and domineering; there is always
brings you luck through intuitive flashes of knowledge a fighting spirit to your personality. However, Uranus
about people or situations in which you are involved. lightens Capricorn’s seriousness and gives you a lively
Unusual financial turns and reverses can be expected satirical wit.
during your lifetime. Often you benefit through a part-
ner’s money or by an inheritance. At times you may be
thought of as stubborn, secretive, and shrewd.

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 7 5



URANUS IN AQUARIUS Aquarius is the sign Uranus URANUS IN PISCES Uranus’s power becomes subtle
rules, and the Aquarian qualities of inventiveness and and emotional in the sensitive sign of Pisces. You have
originality are strongly emphasized. You have a touch a unique talent for understanding and expressing hu-
of genius plus the ability to make your impact on a man feelings, which often shows up in creative work.
wide group of people. Others are drawn to your Uranus brings you luck through your sharp psycholog-
unique mind, for you are an advanced thinker. You are ical insights and your ability to uncover what is secret
a curious blend: You believe in freedom of thought and unknown. You are blessed with psychic awareness;
and expression but are convinced that you alone are many of you are serious students of philosophy, reli-
right. Uranus causes unexpected turnabouts in your gion, astrology, and the occult. In career and business
life. You may work for years toward a goal, then success affairs, your intuitions tell you when to act and alert
will come through something you did not give a sec- you to when others are most receptive to your ideas.
ond thought to. Friends and associates bring you luck Uranus in this position, however, does not indicate a
in career. As a Uranus-Aquarian you are noted for your strong will. At times you must withdraw from the
wry sense of humor. world and recharge your psychic batteries.

2 7 6 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



Neptune
3

Neptune is  the planet of mystery and illusion. Neptune is named after the Roman god of the sea, who
Its power is that of the imagination. Neptune repre- ruled over oceans, rivers, streams, fountains, and all things

sents your dream life and your mystic qualities. It is the hidden by watery depths. In astrology Neptune is the
planet of bewitchment. planet of idealism and spirituality. Its realm is the subcon-

Do you have an active fantasy life? Have you been told scious world, hidden memory, intuition, and clairvoyance.
there is a hypnotic quality to your personality? Do you The positive side of Neptune’s influence represents
have compassion for the suffering of others? Are you inter- glamour and mystery, artistic imagination, dreams, and vi-
ested in occult and psychic phenomena? sions. Its negative side is characterized by deception, con-

If you answer yes to these questions, Neptune exerts a fusion, fraud, treachery, and sham. Neptune rules over a
strong influence on your life. Anyone who has had an wide domain of human activity, from motion pictures,
artistic vision, or is drawn to spiritual matters, or has ex- drama, dance, and poetry to hypnosis and anesthesia, hos-
perienced an unusual and unexplainable event has felt the pitals, institutions and prisons, poison, and drug addic-
power of Neptune. Knowing the position of this planet in tion.
your horoscope will help you to understand better its ac- This planet’s position in your chart indicates what kind
tion in your affairs. of ideals and goals you have, how psychic and visionary

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 7 7



you are, and whether you possess a magnetic allure that religion and ideology. Between 1998 and 2012 Neptune
people respond to. Neptune’s influence brings great depth journeys through Aquarius; a negative aspect of this tran-
of understanding, ESP ability, and creative genius. Unlike sit may be a rise in anarchy, but a more optimistic view
the power of Uranus, which is sudden and forceful, Nep- looks for greater brotherhood among nations and a more
tune’s power is subtle, ethereal, inspirational, and other- spiritual altruism throughout the world. Interestingly, the
worldly. Many astrologers claim that Neptune brings a final year of Neptune’s presence in Aquarius, the year
person into contact with a higher plane of consciousness. 2012, is predicted by the Mayan calendar to be the “end of
When this planet is prominent in an individual horo- the world.” Many astrologers and spiritual guides predict
scope, that person is likely to become involved in mysti- this means that on a global level there will be a change in
cism, psychic phenomena, or dream interpretation. “consciousness” among human beings, and our values will

When Neptune is afflicted, a person cannot separate shift toward creating a utopian society.
fantasy from reality. He or she may seek release from life’s Because Neptune has a generational influence, you
problems in drugs and alcohol or even exhibit criminal share Neptune’s characteristics with the people of your
tendencies. era. The sign that Neptune is in determines how you and

Like the other two modern planets, Neptune has a your generation will make history. The influence of Nep-
strong generational influence. Because it moves so slowly tune will be perceived much more clearly by historians
through the zodiac, Neptune spends approximately four- once it has passed into a new era.
teen years in each sign. The year 1846, when Neptune was Keep in mind that we have never observed even one
discovered, was a time of renewed interest in spiritualism. complete journey by Neptune through the zodiac. This is
Hypnosis became a new medical treatment, and anesthet- because the planet takes almost 165 years to make one or-
ics were first introduced into general use. Ten years later bit around the Sun and we only discovered Neptune in
Sigmund Freud was born. During his lifetime, Freud’s the- 1846. Of course, mankind has always felt Neptune’s influ-
ory of the unconscious and his new science of psycho- ence even though we did not know of the planet’s exis-
analysis revolutionized the treatment of mental disorders tence. By the year 2011 we will have finally noted Nep-
and changed the very way that human beings looked at tune’s transit through all twelve signs of the zodiac.
themselves. In its highest form Neptune symbolizes perfection. It

All through the decade of the 1960s, Neptune was in represents your unselfish ideals, your spiritual quest, and
Scorpio. During this time we saw the rise of the drug cul- your search for the Impossible Dream.
ture. From the 1970s until 1984, Neptune transited the
sign of Sagittarius, and there was an upsurge of interest in Where Is Your Neptune?
so-called New Age topics—reincarnation, channeling, and To find out what sign Neptune was in on the day of
a quest for deeper meaning. While Neptune was in Capri- your birth, consult the Neptune Table on page 512. I also
corn between 1985 and 1998, drugs became an interna- give Neptune’s dates of transit in the following descrip-
tional trade and governments rose and fell over issues of tions of the planet in the different signs of the zodiac. Be-

2 7 8 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



A n  A s t r o n o m i c a l  L o o k  at  N e p t u n e

Neptune is the second of the three modern planets to be discovered, and the achievement is considered a mathematical
triumph. In the years following the first sighting of Uranus in 1791, astronomers noted that planet’s tendency to wander
from its prescribed orbit. The erratic motion led some to believe there was yet another lost planet exerting a gravitational
pull on Uranus.

The position of this unknown planet was finally computed by two astronomy students, working separately and
independently. In October 1845 , John Couch Adams of Cambridge, England, sent his data about the discovery of an
unknown planet to the royal astronomer. The royal astronomer ignored it because he himself was working on this own
theory to explain Uranus’s orbit. In June 1846, Urbain Jean Joseph LeVerrier of Paris, France, announced his discovery of
the unknown planet’s position. LeVerrier was also ignored. Finally in September of that year, LeVerrier sent his data to
Johann Gottfried Galle, director of the observatory in Berlin, Germany. Galle turned his telescope to the designated spot
and found a planet only one degree away from where LeVerrier claimed it would be. Both Adams and LeVerrier were
subsequently given credit for discovering Neptune, and happily became fast friends.

Neptune is the eighth planet in our solar system, and is 2,795,700,000 miles distant from the Sun—thirty times
farther from the Sun than Earth. The planet cannot be seen by the naked eye, and it is difficult to pick out even with a
telescope, for there are over 200,000 stars in the heavens brighter than Neptune.

When Voyager 2 flew by Neptune in August 1989 , the spacecraft had been traveling for twelve years but it did not
disappoint scientists with its discoveries. One discovery is that Neptune (like Saturn, Jupiter, and Uranus) has rings, five of
them. Voyager 2 also discovered six more moons (bringing the total to eight). One of Neptune’s eight moons is Triton, a
moon that orbits the wrong way—in a direction opposite to Neptune’s orbit. This leads astronomers to believe Triton was
once a small planet that orbited around our Sun but long ago came too close to Neptune and was captured by its
gravitational field.

cause of Neptune’s generational influence, it is interesting Pluto were in retrograde motion for a while, entering a
to look back at the planet’s effect on an entire era. Note: In new sign, then returning to the previous sign before finally
the dates for Neptune’s and Pluto’s transits through the settling down into the new sign. For a detailed explanation
signs, you will note in some cases more than two dates are of retrograde movement, see page 417.
given for a particular sign. This is because Neptune and/or

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 7 9



NEPTUNE IN ARIES (1861/62–1874/75) To Aries, the NEPTUNE IN GEMINI (1887/89–1901/02) In Gemini,
sign of active energy, Neptune brings a reforming Neptune bestows mental genius, imagination, and cre-
spirit and high ideals. Neptune-Ariens favor new ativity. Neptune-Geminis have a magnetic ability to
methods in politics, medicine, and science that will express themselves, a hypnotic way of communicating.
better the lot of mankind. They are idealists and revo- Many create a lasting impression on the public. Nep-
lutionaries. When Neptune was last in Aries, it was a tune in this position gives inspiration for new inven-
time of upheaval. Darwin’s theory of evolution shook tions in science and mechanics. When Neptune was
long-established concepts about man’s history. The last in Gemini, Henry Ford perfected the automobile
American Civil War was fought for the ideal of equal- and the Wright brothers built a prototype of the first
ity among human beings. During this era the Red airplane (Gemini rules both transportation and the
Cross was established, with its emphasis on caring for air). In science the first experiments in relativity laid
the sick and needy; the Theosophical Society was the groundwork for Albert Einstein’s epochal theory.
founded, which renewed popular interest in philoso- On a personal level, Neptune-Geminis are resourceful,
phy and spiritualism. Neptune-in-Aries bestows a vivid versatile, and perceptive. They have a tendency to at-
imagination, and natives get true hunches about the tract unusual friends and to have impractical ideas.
future.

NEPTUNE IN CANCER (1901/02–1914/16) In the
NEPTUNE IN TAURUS (1874/75–1887/89) Neptune in emotional sign of Cancer, Neptune’s influence gives a

the materialistic sign of Taurus brings a deeper aware- psychic, spiritual, and idealistic quality. Neptune-Can-
ness of what is truly valuable in life. Neptune-Taureans cerians are sensitive and compassionate. They tend to
are attracted to artistic and spiritual quests; many pos- hold home and family in high regard and believe in
sess psychic ability. These people are able to make old-fashioned values. However, Neptune also brings a
practical use of (and sometimes profit from) their in- striving for change and innovation to make the world
terest in mysticism. When Neptune was last in Taurus a better place. When Neptune was last in Cancer, the
we had the great expansion of American industrialism, American movement of social protest was part of a
and along with it a revival of interest in mysticism and change affecting Western civilization. Also, while Nep-
the occult. During this era the writings of Karl Marx tune transited this sign of imaginative depths, Sig-
gave rise to a new idealism about the distribution of mund Freud explored the unconscious and Carl Jung
wealth. On a personal level, Neptune in this position formulated his theory of a collective unconscious. On
favors an unusual source of income. Love and mar- a personal level, Neptune in this position promotes a
riage bring happiness and inner wisdom. However, love of luxury. At some point in their lives, Neptune-
there is danger of financial loss through deception or Cancerians are likely to experience an unusual or
fraud. strange occurrence in their home or with relatives.

2 8 0 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



NEPTUNE IN LEO (1914/15–1928/29) In the noble sign NEPTUNE IN LIBRA (1942/43–1955/57) Neptune in
of Leo, Neptune confers great courage and ability for the romantic sign of Libra emphasizes idealism and
leadership. Neptune-Leos are generous, dignified, and love. Those born while Neptune transited Libra have
ambitious. They have high aspirations and the force to been called the love generation. Neptune-Librans seek
make their dreams a reality. Many of the world’s heads harmony and balance, and are deeply bothered by in-
of states and political leaders dedicated to a cause were justice in the world. Many of the people who were
born with Neptune in Leo (e.g., John and Robert born during the early years of Neptune’s journey
Kennedy). Leo is also the sign of drama, and during through Libra became active in the antiwar movement
Neptune’s transit of Leo we saw the rise of the motion of the 1960s. Neptune-Librans strongly believe in the
picture industry to dominance in the field of entertain- concepts of brotherly love and resistance to inequity.
ment. The decade of the Twenties saw the radio be- While Neptune transited this sign of peace the United
come an everyday source of entertainment. This was Nations was founded. Libra is also the sign of partner-
also the flamboyant era of the Roaring Twenties (Leo is ship and marriage; this era brought a new questioning
the sign of showy ostentation). On a personal level, of the values of marriage, with a resultant rise in di-
with Neptune in this position there is a tendency for its vorce and search for happiness in love. On a personal
natives to be egotistical and quite sensual. level, Neptune in this position produces a magnetic at-

traction to the opposite sex, and at times a lack of
NEPTUNE IN VIRGO (1928/29–1942/43) The spiritual willpower and determination.

planet Neptune in the practical sign of Virgo gives a
strong instinct for service to mankind. Neptune-Virgos NEPTUNE IN SCORPIO (1955/57–1970) In the power-
are discontent with the status quo, critical of accepted ful sign of Scorpio, Neptune’s influence is shown in
conventions. Many of those born when Neptune was in depth and intensity of feeling. Neptune-Scorpios are
Virgo—the tumultuous years of the Great Depression drawn to what is hidden from public view and want to
and the onset of World War Two—have in our day be- uncover the truth. In years to come, this generation
come active in civil rights, the women’s movement, and will continue to fight for more open government and
environmental concerns. When Neptune transited to rectify the probable secret damage done to our envi-
Virgo, the sign of health, treatment of disease with ronment by ruthless profitseekers. Neptune-Scorpios
penicillin became widespread and chemotherapy was have a true capacity for innovation and invention and
introduced. On a personal level, Neptune-Virgos pos- are attracted to science, medicine, and genetics. While
sess clairvoyance and psychic ability in which they Neptune traveled through this sign of sex and mysti-
should put more faith. Neptune in this position some- cism, there was a breakdown of sexual taboos in soci-
times shows a tendency to be hypercritical and con- ety and a revival of interest in the supernatural. On a
fused in thinking. personal level, in this sign of spiritual regeneration

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 8 1



Neptune brings an extraordinary psychic awareness people will find a way not only to use them efficiently
and interest in the occult. but also to conserve and replenish the gifts of the

earth.
NEPTUNE IN SAGITTARIUS (1970–1984) In the al-

truistic sign of Sagittarius, Neptune has an uplifting NEPTUNE IN AQUARIUS (1998–2012) In the human-
influence. Astrologers put great store in the generation itarian sign of Aquarius, Neptune’s power brings high
born when Neptune was in this sign, for Sagittarius is ideals and social justice. Neptune-Aquarians are con-
the sign of higher learning, philosophy, and freedom. cerned about the welfare of others less fortunate. This
Neptune-Sagittarians have fine intellects, high pur- generation will have visionary concepts that they put
pose, and humane natures, and as these young people into practice. As revolutionaries, they will not tear
reach their adult years we look forward to new down and destroy; rather, they will build for a grand
philosophers, sages, and humanistic leaders. Neptune future. Neptune in this position has been called by as-
in this position brings a desire for liberty and truth, trologers “the flame of conscience.” The generation
and a visionary outlook. Neptune-Sagittarians will play born during Neptune’s transit of Aquarius will be the
an important role in improving living conditions in authors of unusual and undreamed-of discoveries to
the Third World countries and in discovering new ad- aid mankind.
vances in medicine and science. While Neptune tran-
sited this sign of travel and expansion, more people NEPTUNE IN PISCES (2012–2026) In Pisces, Neptune
had access to foreign cultures through travel, research, will be the sign it rules, and therefore its qualities of
and the World Wide Web. spirituality and creative genius will be enhanced for

those born in this era. Neptune-Pisceans will be deep
NEPTUNE IN CAPRICORN (1984/85–1998) In the thinkers with profound understanding about the

disciplined sign of Capricorn, Neptune’s power is meaning of life. Their compassion will be comple-
practical and concrete. Neptune-Capricorns are des- mented by intense psychic powers. Astrologers believe
tined to be thorough and painstaking and to possess that this generation, born when Neptune next transits
great courage once they are committed to a purpose. Pisces, may usher in the ultimate period of self-realiza-
The generation born during Neptune’s transit through tion. Their ascendancy will help to bring peace and
Capricorn will make use of the inspirational ideas of tranquility to the world. Neptune in this position does
the previous generation, particularly in science, chem- not value materialism, so Neptune-Pisceans no doubt
istry, and medicine. Neptune in this position gives cre- will explore the inner man and woman, and develop a
ative insight into the things of the earth—water, tim- new philosophy based on what they find.
ber, natural resources, oil, and minerals—and these



2 8 2 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



Pluto
3

Pluto is  a  planet of awesome power, but it is a and the nether regions of Hades, and of the spirits of the
power that we still find largely inexplicable and diffi- dead. Originally called Planet X, Pluto was given its name

cult to understand. by a young British girl whose letter suggesting a new name
Pluto was discovered as recently as 1930, and as- for the planet was the first to arrive at the Lowell Observa-

trologers continue to study this planet’s influence in as- tory, where Pluto was first discovered.
trology. What is certain is that wherever Pluto appears in The planet is well named, for in astrology Pluto signi-
your horoscope, that area of life will show a marked fies death and rebirth. It is the planet of regenerative
change, perhaps a transformation. If you have ever experi- forces, of destruction and annihilation, and then complete
enced one of those blinding moments in which you sud- transformation. Its keyword is elimination; Pluto wipes the
denly see your life in an entirely new light and decide to slate clean.
change everything, you have felt the energy of Pluto. Pluto’s immense power is felt in world events and in
Pluto’s action brings to light things hidden in the depths the great tides of history. It influences masses of humanity,
of your subconscious, releases your dormant forces, and enormous groups of people, and large organizations. Mass
causes your suppressed energies to erupt suddenly. media and giant conglomerates are in its domain. Pluto

Pluto is named after the Roman god of the underworld rules over such disruptive elements in nature as earth-

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 8 3



quakes and volcanoes. Its negative influence is shown in analyze properly now, but that the planet will continue to
mob violence, demonstrations, murder, wide-scale terror- govern impulses in our secret psyches that we do not yet
ism, and bombing. fully understand.

Pluto’s power has been likened to that of nuclear fis-
sion, which both destroys and creates. There are two sides Where Is Your Pluto?
to Pluto’s influence, and like the two sides of a coin they To find out what sign Pluto was in on the day of your
are opposite but part of the same. birth, consult the Pluto Table on page 513.

Pluto has a powerful generational influence and also a
personal meaning in your chart. The planet governs the 3
beginnings and ends of the phases in life. If your life has Each of the three modern planets has foreshadowed com-
taken a dramatic shift—if, for example, you have worked ing events of the era during which it was discovered. In
hard for a goal, only to see it destroyed or ended and an the case of Pluto, the planet was discovered exactly three
entirely new direction opened up—Pluto is likely to be months after the great stock market crash set off a world-
prominent in your horoscope. People who have had to wide economic depression. The decade that followed saw
leave their homes behind to begin anew in a foreign coun- the rise of gangsterism and criminal mobs that were a law
try, or those whose lives were irrevocably altered because unto themselves. During this decade Adolf Hitler began
of the death of a key figure, are under Pluto’s influence. his demonic rise, which ended by plunging the entire
The Plutonian character has a deep need to dominate and world into war. During the latter years of the twentieth
control, and often will rise to great heights. People who century, while Pluto transited Scorpio (the sign of sexual-
have brilliant careers in politics and government, in med- ity, death, and rebirth), we witnessed the rise of the AIDS
ical research and archeology are under Pluto’s influence; virus and genetic engineering.
the planet governs the uncovering of secrets of the past in Because Pluto is so new, astrology has not had much
order to clear ground for the future. time to study and refine its knowledge of the planet. It is

Even in the most civilized personality, Pluto’s force is not always easy to see what influence a particular planet
felt as an undercurrent of turbulence and uncontrolled has on an era until time provides perspective.
energy. Its strong negative power may cause some people Since its discovery in 1930, we have noted Pluto’s jour-
to be cruel, sadistic, or treacherous, or even lead a life of ney through only six signs of the zodiac. Pluto is now
crime. Pluto’s power is seen in both idealistic leaders and transiting a seventh sign, Capricorn, in which it will stay
brutal dictators. until 2024. Reckoning backward into the 1800s as well as

Pluto represents the highest and lowest of which hu- projecting forward a few years into the twenty-first cen-
mankind is capable. Some astrologers believe Pluto’s tury, here is a glance at what we are able to discern of
power is too arcane and mysterious for human beings to Pluto’s influence.

2 8 4 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



A n  A s t r o n o m i c a l  L o o k  at  P lu to

In 1914, two years before his death, the American astronomer Percival Lowell began his computations on the position of
an unknown planet beyond Neptune. He was looking for a planet (then called Planet X) to explain disturbances in the
orbit of Uranus. Not until February 18, 1930, however, was Pluto actually discovered, by Clyde W. Tombaugh, who based
his work on Lowell’s reckonings. After years of search, Pluto was at last identified on a photograph taken with the giant
telescope at Lowell Observatory (established by Percival Lowell in 1894). The discovery of Pluto was a mathematical feat,
for the planet is an enormous distance from the Sun and is quite small in size, a mere pinpoint among the over 15 million
stars in the heavens that are brighter than it is.

Pluto is the ninth planet in our solar system, and is 3,680,000,000 miles distant from the Sun. Pluto’s distance from
Earth is approximately 50 times Earth’s distance from the Sun. Pluto is a tiny planet with a diameter of 1,440 miles, less
than one-fifth the width of Earth and less than half the size of Mercury. Because Pluto is so far away from the Sun, it
receives relatively little sunlight. So great is the Sun’s brilliance, though, that noon on Pluto is still 600 times brighter than
a night here on Earth when the full moon is shining.

Pluto has an eccentric orbit. All the other planets in our solar system travel in paths around the Sun that are virtually
circular and are more or less on the same plane as Earth’s orbit. Pluto’s orbit, however, tilts rather wildly, so much so that
at certain times Pluto is nearer to the Earth than Neptune is. In 1989, Pluto was at perihelion (closest to the Sun in its
orbit) and until 1999, contrary to popular belief, it was not our outermost planet. During the years 1979 to 1999 Neptune
was the planet farthest from the Sun. After that, and for the next 228 years, Neptune reverted to being the eighth planet
from the Sun and Pluto the ninth.

When speaking of Pluto’s orbit, one must deal in terms of many years, for Pluto takes nearly 250 Earth years to make
one journey around the Sun. This means Pluto dwells for many years in each sign of the zodiac. The number of years
varies because of the planet’s odd orbit, and may range from as low as 13 years to as many as 32 years.

In January 2006 NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) sent a space probe, New Horizons, out
toward Pluto, which is expected to reach Pluto in July 2015.

Meanwhile, in 2001, controversy erupted over the status of Pluto. It was declared an asteroid, but quickly reinstated as
a planet. Then in August 2006 the International Astronomical Union formerly downgraded Pluto to a “dwarf planet.”
According to new standards, one of the criteria for a planet is it must have cleared away all other objects out of its orbit. Yet
Pluto orbits through the icy wreckage of asteroids in the Kuiper Belt—and thus has now been relegated to the status of
dwarf planet.

Though to astronomers Pluto may be a dwarf, in astrology it looms as large as ever. Pluto continues to represent
profound psychological transformation and the beginnings and endings to the stages of our lives (as well as historical
events).

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 8 5



PLUTO IN ARIES (1822/23–1851/53) Pluto’s influence PLUTO IN GEMINI (1882/84–1912/14) When Pluto
in this adventurous sign set off the great pioneering was last in Gemini, the sign of communication, it rev-
trek westward in America. The first railroad was intro- olutionized the way information reached the masses.
duced in America. It was during this era that the world This was the era when newspapers came into promi-
became larger as mankind ventured to explore the far nence. The phonograph and photography reproduced
reaches of this planet. There were struggles for su- sounds and visual information for wide use by the
premacy as strong nations acquired colonies. It is par- public. The first motion pictures were invented and
ticularly notable that England (which is specifically an gave rise to a new industry (which flowered when
Aries country) achieved world ascendancy during Neptune transited the theatrical sign of Leo). Gemini
Pluto’s transit of Aries, becoming the empire on which rules the airwaves, so it is not surprising that during
the sun never set. When Pluto is in Aries, the planet’s Pluto’s transit the telegraph, the radio, and the tele-
personal influence gives courage, self-reliance, and a phone came into being. This era also introduced two
strong sense of individuality; recklessness and egotism new forms of travel that would revolutionize the
are its negative effects for individuals. world: the airplane and automobile. When Pluto is in

Gemini the planet’s personal influence gives its natives
PLUTO IN TAURUS (1851/53–1882/84) In Taurus, the an inventive and restless mind that seeks change and

sign of wealth and possessions, Pluto brought up- freedom from old restrictions.
heaval. In America, a bloody civil war was fought over
the question of slavery—whether one human being PLUTO IN CANCER (1912/14–1937/39) Pluto’s stormy
could properly be the possession of another. All over transit through Cancer, the sign of home, brought up-
the world the very wealthy exploited the very poor; heaval to family life in America. By the millions people
child labor flourished and the have-nots endured lives left the country to settle in towns and cities. The nega-
of misery and hardship. During this era Karl Marx for- tive side of Pluto-in-Cancer was shown in the hideous
mulated his revolutionary theories, based on the elimi- loss of life in World War One, and the preparations for
nation of the class system and a more equal distribu- World War Two under the leadership of militaristic
tion of wealth. Pluto-in-Taurus saw capitalism finally Nazi Germany, a nation that espoused glorification of
triumph over the last vestiges of feudalism and virtu- the homeland. Our country and our way of life (Can-
ally take over the world. When Pluto is in Taurus, the cerian values) were imperiled. Cancer is the sign of
planet’s personal influence gives its natives determina- agriculture; during Pluto’s transit in the 1930s, we saw
tion and endurance. People with this Pluto position the great drought and the misery of the migrant farm-
seek stability and are often obsessed with material workers forced from their land. We also saw the rise of
advancement. industrial unions formed in violent struggles against

the power of the great corporations. When Pluto is in

2 8 6 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



Cancer, the planet’s personal influence gives intense ety, of achievement in the fight for civil rights and, in
emotions and creative imagination. Negatively, it the mid 1960s, a growing feminist movement. In this
produces a deep resentment of other people’s good sign of health, some of Pluto’s influences on its genera-
fortune. tion are a new awareness of toxic food additives, an

emphasis on holistic medicine, and concern over pol-
PLUTO IN LEO (1937/39–1956/58) During Pluto’s jour- lution of the environment. Virgo is also the sign of

ney through the masterful sign of Leo, the United practicality, of putting facts to useful work. During
States entered World War Two and helped the Allied Pluto’s transit of this sign, the two world superpowers
powers win a victory over Germany and Japan. Leo is were actively involved in space exploration. In 1969 a
also a magnanimous sign (after the war the United human being first walked on the Moon. The dark side
States gave money and assistance to the defeated coun- of Pluto’s power was shown as the United States was
tries in order to help rebuild them). On October 24, plunged into turmoil by the assassinations of John
1945, the United Nations was formed, where each Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, and Martin Luther King Jr.
country would express its point of view and attempt to Southeast Asia was torn by an unending war in Viet-
work out its differences with other nations. The Korean nam, which not only took its toll in lives and misery
War was fought to save a nation from aggression. Pluto but also divided the nation emotionally. When Pluto is
in the power sign of Leo also points to abuse of power, in Virgo, the planet’s personal influence bestows a pro-
and during this era people’s lives and careers were crip- found analytical quality to the personality. People un-
pled and destroyed by the rise of McCarthyism. When der this influence seek perfection but are also suspi-
Pluto is in Leo, the personal influence is to emphasize cious and ready to find fault with the world around
love of power, a domineering ego, and self-aggrandize- them.
ment, but it also confers on its natives strong pride and
a will to prevail despite obstacles. There is a tendency PLUTO IN LIBRA (1971/72–1983/84) Libra is the sign
toward arrogance, selfishness, and sensual pleasures. of peace and harmony, and early in Pluto’s journey
The generation that was born when Pluto transited Leo through Libra the agonizing war in Vietnam finally
introduced the era of the pleasure principle; there is came to an end. On a larger scale, two enormous hos-
also strong emphasis on mass hero-worship of person- tile world powers, the United States and the People’s
alities in the media. Republic of China, moved toward peace and a new

rapprochement in their relationship. Pluto-in-Libra
PLUTO IN VIRGO (1956/58–1971/72) During Pluto’s also indicates deep concern for law and balancing in-

transit of Virgo, the sign of service to others, the justice. The era of Watergate, with its shocking revela-
Kennedy and Johnson administrations were committed tions of corruption, ended by bringing new order to
to social programs. This was the era of the Great Soci- government and restoring the balance of powers be-

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 8 7



tween the executive branch and Congress. A conse- imaginative and passionate, possess psychic ability, and
quence was the adoption of the Freedom of Informa- can be ruthless about getting their own way.
tion Act. Libra emphasizes egalitarianism and equality,
and Pluto’s transit saw the passage of equal opportu- PLUTO IN SAGITTARIUS (1995–2007/08) Pluto zips
nity laws, support for the Equal Rights Amendment, through Sagittarius in a relatively short time, thirteen
and greater equality for homosexuals. Libra also signi- years, and its influence promises to be less heavy. Sagit-
fies a love for luxury, and the early 1980s ushered in a tarius is the sign of truth and open knowledge, and the
period of opulence and ostentation. When Pluto is in years just prior to the turn of the millennium are char-
Libra, the planet’s personal influence promotes a deep acterized as the Information Age. Television reported
need to seek harmony and cooperation. Its negative events in full detail almost before they took place; the
side brings unforeseen problems and disruption in Web links us to information within seconds; endless
close relationships. streams of memoirs have left no one’s secrets untold.

In keeping with full disclosure, we witnessed a U.S.
PLUTO IN SCORPIO (1983/84–1995) The entry of president’s impeachment (and acquittal) that began

Pluto into the sign of Scorpio coincided with George with the exposure of his extramarital sexual affair.
Orwell’s predictions of a totalitarian government and Sagittarius also represents foreign lands and far-flung
loss of individual rights in his famous book 1984. places and, through the computer and the Internet,
Pluto is extremely powerful in Scorpio, the sign that it Pluto has transformed the concept of distance. Inter-
rules, and this period was one of turmoil and revolu- national trade and business takes place in seconds, re-
tion. During this era the Berlin Wall fell, the Soviet tailers sell to the public directly through the computer,
Union disbanded and became a commonwealth, Iran and e-mail instantly connects people on opposite sides
turned militantly conservative, Yugoslavia was torn of the Earth. We are hopeful that the first decade of the
apart by warring Serbs and Croats. Scorpio is the sign twenty-first century is an era of new values in philoso-
of destruction, and Pluto’s transit was rife with world- phy, religion, education, and foreign affairs, areas all
wide terrorism. Pluto’s link to the underworld was under Sagittarius’s influence. Sagittarius is the sign of
seen in the rise of an international drug trade. The freedom, adventure, and exploration. There should be
sign of Scorpio rules sexuality, birth, death, and re- a new spirit of friendliness and spiritual sharing
birth, and Pluto’s journey gave rise to test-tube babies, among nations. Europe has already joined in a Com-
surrogate parenting, cloned animals, and all manner of mon Market. Pluto-in-Sagittarius brings deep hope
genetic engineering. The AIDS virus became rampant, and profound understanding. Its negative influence is
underlining the themes of sex and death. Pluto’s per- toward impractical extremes, but the optimism and
sonal influence in Scorpio produces individuals with enthusiasm that characterizes this transit should make
penetrating minds and strong wills. These people are this an uplifting time for human beings everywhere.

2 8 8 • L e s s  We l l - K n ow n  I n f lu e n ce s



PLUTO IN CAPRICORN (2008/09–2024) Because
Capricorn is the sign of discipline and ambition, 3
Pluto’s influence here should stress responsibility and By the time Pluto enters the following sign of Aquarius,

the ethic of work. Capricorn is the sign of government the world will be in the Age of Aquarius (see chapter 13).

and long-term security, and Pluto may have the effect Pluto will bring even greater emphasis to the humanitar-

of bringing a new world order into being. Individual ian and freedom-loving qualities of Aquarius. This should

nations may join in a system of world government that be a time of unimaginable scientific discovery, for Aquar-

leads to greater stability. Star-watchers are focused on ius is the sign of science and future knowledge.

the year 2012, which the Mayan calendar marks as the When Pluto is in Pisces, human beings may at last com-

“end of the world.” Many spiritual movements believe prehend the fullness of Pluto’s power and add to their

this is a metaphor for a change in “consciousness” knowledge of the meaning of life. Pisces represents the

when the human race will adopt a more spiritual value completion of the circle, the last step before moving on to

system. Astrologically, Pluto in Capricorn holds out the the first rung of a higher ladder. By this time the human

hope there will be an end to war. race may have evolved to a higher and more noble plane.

Yo u  a n d  t h e  P l a n e ts • 2 8 9






8
Part Three

UNDERSTANDING 
ASTROLOGY






8
8

T H E  H O U S E S  O F  
A S T R O L O G Y

s  far back as  Babylonian times, ancient astrologers divided life into different categories.

AThey understood that a life’s journey consists of a myriad of activities and emotions, of work, ambition,
hopes and dreams, and relationships.

Babylonian astrologers named twelve separate categories of life, which have come down to us from that time
almost unchanged. These twelve divisions are called Houses. I recently saw a modern definition for Houses—
“existential arenas”—but this is just a fancy way of saying that each House represents a separate area and specific
function of your life. There is a House of domestic life, a House of personal wealth, a House of marriage, a
House of career, etc.

Your horoscope—which is a map of your individual personality—consists of all twelve Houses. Here, begin-
ning with the first, are the twelve Houses of a horoscope. After you have set up your horoscope (see chapter 9),
you will have a clearer understanding of what the Houses of astrology mean in your life.

2 9 3



FIRST HOUSE This is the House of Self. It is the most personal and most
powerful House in your chart, for it symbolizes you—your mannerisms,
your style, your disposition and temperament. This is the House of your
outward behavior, your likes and dislikes. The First House reveals both the
way you present yourself to others and the way the outside world sees you.
It often indicates your physical characteristics, especially your head and fa-
cial features. Sometimes called the House of self-interest, it denotes what
you want in life and how you go about achieving it. The place in your chart
at which this House begins is the most important point in a horoscope, for
it determines where all the other Houses will follow. In astrology the First
House is thought of as a giant lens through which the rest of your chart is
seen and interpreted.

SECOND HOUSE This is the House of Money and Possessions. It relates to
what you own in life and what you will acquire, your income, and your fi-
nancial prospects. This is the House of movable possessions, the things you
physically take with you as you move through life. The Second House also
tells how you feel about money and possessions, and gives a clue to the
kinds of objects with which you like to surround yourself. To a certain ex-
tent it gives a picture of your earning power and ability to handle money.
The Second House often shows what activities and projects may be a lucra-
tive source of income for you.

THIRD HOUSE This is the House of Communication. The Third House
relates to your immediate environment in three major areas: self-expres-
sion, your family ties, and day-to-day travel. This House governs the way
you think, speak, and write. Logic, memory, and manual skill are in its do-
main. The Third House often indicates what kind of early education you
received, and your ability to study and learn. Your relationships with broth-
ers and sisters, aunts and uncles, cousins and neighbors are part of this
House’s influence. Short trips and the vehicles for this type of travel are
governed by the Third House—especially the travel you do for work or 
education.

2 9 4 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



FOURTH HOUSE This is the House of Home. The Fourth House governs
your home life in the past, the present, and the future. It indicates the kind
of home you had in childhood and your relationship with parents. What
you have brought into this life from your ancestors is in its domain. In the
present, the Fourth House relates to the kind of home you make for your-
self. Your current domestic affairs are under its influence, as are real estate
holdings and the ownership of land. This House also rules over the closing
years of your life, the kind of security you seek for old age. The Fourth
House is one of the more mystical houses in your chart, for it represents
what you keep protected and secluded from the rest of the world—the
place you call home in both a physical and an emotional sense.

FIFTH HOUSE This is the House of Creativity and Sex. The Fifth House
rules over everything you do for pleasure and to express yourself creatively.
Your sexual nature (the most basic creative urge in your psyche) is a large
part of its domain. Children and the joy you receive from them are gov-
erned by this House. The Fifth House also relates to entertainment, holi-
days, amusements, and the arts. It rules love affairs, new undertakings in
life, speculation and gambles, and games of chance. It is the House that ex-
presses your artistic talents as well as your ability to enjoy yourself in life.
In childhood, pets and playmates are part of this House, for it holds sway
over all the things to which you instinctively give affection. This is the
House of your heart.

SIXTH HOUSE This is the House of Service and of Health. Often called
the House of service to others, it indicates your need to help others and to
be useful in the world. In the old days it governed a person’s attitude to-
ward servants and those of inferior standing. In the modern day, this
House rules your relationship with the people you work with, with those
who are subordinates, and with your employers. The Sixth House also re-
lates to your state of health and especially applies to illness brought on by
worry or emotional upsets. This House often signifies whether you have a
robust or delicate constitution, and what kinds of diseases you may be sub-
ject to.

Th e  H o u s e s  o f A s t r o l o g y • 2 9 5



SEVENTH HOUSE This is the House of Partnership and Marriage. On a
personal level, it relates to your husband or wife, the mate you choose in
life. It often indicates what kind of marriage you will have and whether you
might divorce or remarry. This is your House of partnerships, not only in
marriage but also in work, business, legal affairs, and sometimes in politics.
It covers legal unions or contracts you enter into, and both sides of a ques-
tion or dispute. The Seventh House concerns your ability to work harmo-
niously with others. Paradoxically, it also governs what astrologers call your
open enemies, those who are usually your adversaries in the business or
professional world. The Seventh House is the opposite of the First House of
Self; here you blend your personality with others in order to pursue shared
goals.

EIGHTH HOUSE This is the House of Death and Regeneration. The
Eighth House is one of the three mystical houses in your chart (the others
are the Fourth and the Twelfth), and one of the most difficult to under-
stand. Sometimes called the House of spiritual transformation, it rules the
life forces that surround sex, birth, death, and the afterlife. 1t concerns
legacies and what you inherit from the dead—both materially and spiritu-
ally. Money that belongs to your partner, and taxes and debt are also in this
House’s domain. The Eighth House may give some indication of the condi-
tions surrounding your death, although the precise time always remains a
mystery. Surgery is governed by this House, since it relates to regeneration.
This is the House of psychic powers and occult studies and knowledge.

NINTH HOUSE This is the House of Mental Exploration and Long Dis-
tance Travel. The Ninth House can be thought of as a widening of the
Third House; study, travel, and mental pursuits are expanded in the Ninth
House onto a much wider plane. This is the House of the higher mind. Un-
der its domain are higher education, philosophy, and the study in depth of
profound subjects. Long journeys of both the mind and the physical body
are controlled by this House. It concerns actual travel to foreign lands and
business interests in other countries. It governs the meeting of foreigners
who expand your way of thinking, and also the study of languages. The
Ninth House rules your public expression of ideas and is therefore the
House of publishing and literary effort.

2 9 6 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



TENTH HOUSE This is the House of Career and Public Standing. Its op-
posite house (the Fourth House) rules the home; the Tenth House rules all
matters outside the home—your profession, your status in the community,
and your public reputation. It has been called the House of ambition, aspi-
ration, and attainment. This House also reveals in what esteem you are
held by others. The Tenth House reflects your image, as shown in the
power, position, and honors that you may achieve. It is an outward expres-
sion of your talents, the way you accept responsibility, the place you arrive
at through your own efforts. This House has a great influence on your ma-
terial success in life.

ELEVENTH HOUSE This is the House of Friends and of Hopes and
Wishes. Unlike its opposite house (the Fifth House) with its concern for
immediate pleasures, the Eleventh House has to do with long-term dreams
and goals and with intellectual pleasures. This House governs your involve-
ment with groups and organizations that have to do with your work, pro-
fession, or family. The clubs, societies, or political associations you belong
to are under its domain. This House often indicates the kinds of friends
and acquaintances who can best further your interests and objectives in
life. The Eleventh House reflects your ability to enjoy other people. On its
highest level this House represents the harmonious working together of all
people, each one doing what best expresses his or her individual personal-
ity. It is the House of idealism and vision.

TWELFTH HOUSE This is the House of Secrets, Sorrows and Self-Undo-
ing. It is the most mystical of all the Houses, the final House, the end of the
circle. This is not necessarily a negative and gloomy place, but it does de-
fine the limitations placed on your life, including by yourself through self-
undoing behavior. This House governs disappointments, accidents, trouble,
and self-defeat. It rules unseen forces, secret enemies, escapism, asylums,
hospitals, and prisons. The Twelfth House has been called the House of
Karma, the House of spiritual debt, for it contains the rewards and punish-
ments for the deeds one commits in the world. It is associated with psychic
powers and the ability to discover at last the meaning of life.

Th e  H o u s e s  o f A s t r o l o g y • 2 9 7



In a horoscope, the Houses are always pictured as follows:

8
Rulers of the Houses

You may have noticed that the twelve Houses House Natural Ruler
bear a relationship/resemblance to the twelve Signs of First House of Self Aries

the zodiac. The First House shares certain qualities with Second House of Possessions Taurus
Third House of Communication Gemini

the first sign of Aries; the Second House has qualities in
Fourth House of Home Cancer

common with the second sign of Taurus, and so on Fifth House of Creativity Leo
through the zodiac. The zodiacal sign that corresponds to Sixth House of Service Virgo
a House is called the natural ruler of that House. Seventh House of Partnership Libra

Eighth House of Regeneration Scorpio
Ninth House of Mental Exploration Sagittarius
Tenth House of Career Capricorn
Eleventh House of Hopes Aquarius
Twelfth House of Self-Undoing Pisces

2 9 8 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



8
Kinds of Houses

In astrology, the Houses are categorized in groups of three Second House of finances.
and in groups of four. These groups have special meanings Fifth House of creativity.
that help us to see the overall picture of how Houses relate Eighth House of regeneration.
to life. Eleventh House of hopes.

Houses Divided into Three Groups 
1. ANGULAR HOUSES (called Angular because they

mark the four “Angles” of a chart. See pages 343 ff.) These
are the First, Fourth, Seventh, and Tenth Houses. Planets
in these Houses indicate that you will achieve some kind
of prominence in the world.

First House of self and personality.
Fourth House of home and the latter part of life. 3. CADENT HOUSES (called Cadent because they

Seventh House of fortune in partnership or marriage. “fall away” from the Angular and Succedent Houses. The

Tenth House of honor and position in career. word cadent comes from the Latin cadere, meaning “to
fall.”) These are the Third, Sixth, Ninth, and Twelfth
Houses. Planets in these Houses indicate that you are
mentally active and communicate your ideas.

Third House of day-to-day communication.
Sixth House of employment.
Ninth House of mental exploration.
Twelfth House of the subconscious.

2. SUCCEDENT HOUSES (called Succedent because
they “succeed” or follow the Angular Houses.) These are
the Second, Fifth, Eighth, and Eleventh Houses. Planets in
these Houses indicate that you have stability, willpower,
and fixity of purpose.

Th e  H o u s e s  o f A s t r o l o g y • 2 9 9



Houses Divided into Four Groups 3. HOUSES OF RELATIONSHIPS These are the
1. HOUSES OF LIFE These are the First House of Third House of relatives and neighbors, the Seventh House

energy and vitality, the Fifth House of creativity and off- of partnership and marriage, and the Eleventh House of
spring, and the Ninth House of learning and conviction. friends and organizations.

2. HOUSES OF WEALTH These are the Second 4. HOUSES OF ENDINGS These are the Fourth

House of personal property, the Sixth House of employ- House of the latter years of life, the Eighth House of death

ment and work, and the Tenth House of career and public and regeneration, and the Twelfth House of spiritual re-

status. ward and debt.

3 0 0 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



8
Planets in the Houses

One of the guidep osts an astrologer looks at in the occult. Venus (planet of love and beauty) in your
when interpreting your birth chart is which Houses First House of Self accentuates social ease, a refined es-

in your horoscope are occupied by planets. Any House in thetic nature, and a goodlooking physical appearance,
your chart that has one or more planets in it is empha- whereas Venus in your Fourth House of Home indicates
sized and strengthened by their presence in specific ways. that you are likely to have a comfortable, beautiful domi-
For example, Jupiter (planet of luck) in your Second cile and to have enjoyed a happy childhood.
House of Possessions indicates ease in making money, Each planet in each House has a special meaning, and
whereas Jupiter in your Seventh House of Partnership the following rundown will serve as a useful guide. In or-
means you tend to make gains through your partnerships der to apply these descriptions to yourself, however, you
or marriage. Mars (planet of assertiveness) in your Third must first set up your birth chart. Instructions for doing
House of Communication designates intellectual sharp- that are outlined in the next chapter, “How to Cast Your
ness and a powerful talent to communicate effectively, Own Horoscope.” Once you set down your Houses and
whereas Mars in your Eighth House of Regeneration indi- discover which planets occupy which Houses, the follow-
cates strong willpower, volcanic passions, and an interest ing descriptions will help you to interpret your horoscope.

3
FIRST HOUSE (House of Self) want to be appreciated and admired, and would like to be

famous. Good points: receptive, romantic, curious. Bad

SUN in (Planet of vitality and individuality): You have a points: oversensitive, moody, a tendency to dissipate ener-

strong will and sense of self, and you like lots of attention. gies.

You are an independent person with leadership ability.
Good points: healthy constitution, generous, confident, MERCURY in (Planet of the mind): You are mentally alert,

dignified. Bad points: authoritative, egotistical, dictatorial. inquisitive, and humorous, and you need intellectual chal-
lenge. You like to travel and enjoy talking to people. You

MOON in (Planet of emotions and instincts): You are imagi- may be known as an idea person and are probably a good

native in the way you express yourself and intuitive about mimic. Good points: adaptable, active, good at writing

other people. Home and family mean a great deal to you, and speaking. Bad points: restless, indecisive, think too

and you remember your childhood with nostalgia. You much about yourself.

Th e  H o u s e s  o f A s t r o l o g y • 3 0 1



VENUS in (Planet of love and pleasure): You are affection- you want your talents and work to be recognized. Good
ate, flirtatious, and usually quite good-looking. You have points: industrious, good powers of endurance, a keen
charming social manners and like to have companion- sense of responsibility. Bad points: stubborn and set in
ship. Your appearance is important to you and you tend ways, afraid of new beginnings, secretive.
to spend too much money on yourself. Good points:
sympathetic, artistic, a cheerful personality. Bad points: URANUS in (Planet of change and originality): You have an
lazy, narcissistic, too fond of pleasure and luxury. inventive mind and may take up unusual interests or hob-

bies. Your life is often marked by sudden and unexpected
MARS in (Planet of energy and assertiveness): You are im- beginnings. You have a high-strung personality and an in-

pulsive and independent, and dislike taking advice from dependent way of looking at things. You can be strong-
others. You approach new projects with energy and confi- willed about getting your own way. Good points: original,
dence, and are capable of hard work. You have strong sex creative, intuitive. Bad points: inconsiderate, stubborn, ec-
desires and are passionate in lovemaking. Good points: centric.
strong body, self-assertive, courageous. Bad points: incon-
siderate, pushy, domineering, accident-prone. NEPTUNE in (Planet of spirituality and illusion): You are

imaginative and impressionable and can use this in artis-
JUPITER in (Planet of luck and expansion): You have a tic work. You tend to be absentminded because you like

buoyant, cheerful disposition, and are a success socially. to daydream. You are fond of luxury and are sometimes
You inspire confidence, are optimistic, and tend to be lazy. A lot of your time is spent on or near the sea. Good
generous with your time and energy. You are blessed with points: visionary, idealistic, sensitive to other people. Bad
luck, and things usually turn out for the best in life. Good points: procrastinating, changeable, weak-willed, never
points: jovial, broad-minded, expansive, kind. Bad points: satisfied.
self-indulgent, gullible, with a marked tendency to gain
weight. You are sometimes faithless in love. PLUTO in (Planet of transformation): You have an intense

and magnetic personality, and you seek adventure. You
SATURN in (Planet of discipline and limitation): You are learned to be self-sufficient when you were young and are

persistent, have organizing ability, and are capable of self- inclined to be a loner. Good points: great strength, relent-
discipline. You are patient and a bit shy, feel nervous un- less in pursuing a goal, potential for self-transformation.
derneath (which you keep under tight self-control), and Bad points: inscrutable, vindictive, ruthless.

3

3 0 2 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



3
SECOND HOUSE  (House of Possessions) Business ventures with a partner are lucrative. You like to

spend on clothes, jewels, personal adornment, and pleas-

SUN in (Planet of vitality and individuality): You need secu- ures. If you are a man you tend to spend money on

rity and tend to attract money, but it comes into and goes women. Good points: generous, fair and honest in finan-

out of your life rather quickly. You like to spend on luxu- cial dealings, an ability to use beautiful things profitably

ries, and many of your possessions increase in value over (fashion, decorating, art gallery, etc.). Bad points: extrava-

time. You often gain through influential people. Good gance, love of luxury and expensive possessions, inade-

points: generous, great reserves of strength, persistent, cre- quate willpower.

ative in financial affairs. Bad points: possessive, greedy, os-
tentatious, money and possessions become status symbols. MARS in (Planet of energy and assertiveness): You have

good earning power and make gains through your own

MOON in (Planet of emotions and instincts): You are able to effort and competitiveness. Money is important to you,

earn money creatively, by using your imagination, and and you aggressively go after it. You tend to have frequent

through the public—selling to the public, appearing in financial crises, but you recover quickly. Good points: effi-

public, etc. Your financial affairs fluctuate and tend to be cient, enterprising about new profit-making ideas, often

unsettled. You are sometimes thrifty and careful, at other have your own business. Bad points: impulsive spender,

times wasteful and careless. Good points: tenacious with a lavish, careless, vulnerable to losses because of fire, haste,

keen sense for what is lucrative, security-minded with an or rashness.

ability to plan for the future. Bad points: greedy, extrava-
gant, you spend money emotionally and often unwisely. JUPITER in (Planet of luck and expansion): You tend to

make money easily and have a talent for financial deal-

MERCURY in (Planet of the mind): You are able to earn ings. Other people are attracted to your expansive ways

money in intellectual enterprises—writing, teaching, lec- and you often benefit through social contacts. Depending

turing—or in any field of communications. You like to on the other factors in your chart, you will gain affluence

spend money on travel and education, and for gadgets or spend all you get in wild extravagance. Traveling or the

that make your life easier. Sometimes you have more than travel industry is another source of wealth for you. Good

one source of income. Good points: quick mind for finan- points: honest in dealings, generous, visionary about new

cial opportunity, good bargaining powers, talent for sales- moneymaking ideas. Bad points: materialistic, careless,

manship. Bad points: careless with money, impractical, apt to suffer loss through legal entanglements.

vulnerable to trickery and theft.
SATURN in (Planet of discipline and limitation): You are

VENUS in (Planet of love and pleasure): You tend to prosper ambitious about acquiring material comfort and tend to

through social connections, marriage, or artistic pursuits. make long-range financial plans. You are thrifty and

Th e  H o u s e s  o f A s t r o l o g y • 3 0 3



shrewd, cautious about your investments; blue-chip NEPTUNE in (Planet of spirituality and illusion): You are
stocks are more your style than get-rich-quick schemes. intuitive and imaginative about making money. A more
Money doesn’t come in quickly; gain is slow and steady, logical person would say your financial affairs are not run
and you must put in considerable effort. Good points: in a businesslike way. In acquiring objects, you tend to be
practical, persevering, hardworking. Bad points: stingy, more interested in their esthetic value (their meaning to
may encounter delays and obstacles in acquiring money. you), rather than their material value. Good points: gen-

erous to others in need, gain through creative work, un-
URANUS in (Planet of change and originality): You tend to materialistic. Bad points: a careless or indifferent attitude

have an unusual source of income or your money oppor- toward money, too easily imposed on or swindled, lazy.
tunities pop up suddenly and unexpectedly. Your long-
term financial picture will probably have spectacular fluc- PLUTO in (Planet of transformation): You are adventurous
tuations. If there are no opposing influences in your about money and not afraid of taking risks. You like to
chart, you can expect to gain overall. Antiques, curios, diversify, and during your lifetime there may be several
and collectibles are lucrative for you. Good points: inven- changes in your source of income. You tend to become
tive, resourceful, unusual eye for value. Bad points: sud- obsessed with possessions and finances. Good points:
den losses, erratic money dealings, financial problems unique fiscal talent, resourcefulness, ability to win high
with friends. return on your effort. Bad points: squanderer, selfish, ten-

dency to be unscrupulous.

3
THIRD HOUSE (House of Communication) make a good impression when working with or appearing

among the public. Good points: inquisitive mind, good

SUN in (Planet of vitality and individuality): You have an ac- common sense, successful writing about self or family.

tive, creative mind and need to communicate your ideas. Bad points: moody, unstable, tendency to interfere in the

Chances are you will be successful in writing, teaching, or lives of others.

lecturing. Your ability to express yourself often makes you
a leader in your field. Good points: ability to study, fluent, MERCURY in (Planet of the mind): You have an alert man-

cheerful personality. Bad points: disorganized, arrogant, ner and are versatile in handling both people and projects.

tendency for misunderstandings with relatives. You are practical and efficient at coping with details. Peo-
ple are drawn to your wit and humor and your eloquence

MOON in (Planet of emotions and instincts): You tend to in expressing yourself. Good points: curious, logical, intel-

think emotionally and have a strong imagination. You dis- ligent, sociable. Bad points: nervous worrier, indecisive,

like routine and your life is marked by many short trips. apt to quarrel with relatives.

You have a good memory, often change your opinion, and

3 0 4 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



VENUS in (Planet of love and pleasure): You are artistic, make the right decision. You may encounter difficulties or
have an innate sense of taste and design, and win atten- obstacles in getting an education. Good points: contem-
tion for your ideas in a way that people find charming. plative, persevering, conscientious. Bad points: prone to
Your social life may involve taking a number of trips. Love pessimism, estrangement from relatives.
may come about because of travel or through correspon-
dence. Good points: cheerful, creative, eloquent in both URANUS in (Planet of change and originality): You have an
speech and writing. Bad points: mentally lazy, superficial, independent and inventive mind and like to follow your
too swayed by emotion. own road rather than someone else’s. Travel in your life

often comes up suddenly. At times you can be strikingly
MARS in (Planet of energy and assertiveness): You are deter- original in the way you speak and write. Good points: cre-

mined and active and usually speak your mind. You like ative, ingenious, versatile. Bad points: restless, friction
to be a leader and often get your way in things because with relatives because of unconventional ideas, prone to
you are so persuasive. You tend to drive too fast or en- accidents while traveling.
counter difficulties while traveling. Good points: alert, full
of new ideas, can express yourself creatively. Bad points: NEPTUNE in (Planet of spirituality and illusion): Your
argumentative, especially with relatives, vulnerable to loss mind is impressionable and imaginative, and you may
in legal disputes. have psychic feelings about other people. You have a deep

need to learn about life and are attracted to occult studies.
JUPITER in (Planet of luck and expansion): You have an You like to daydream and fantasize. Good points: idealis-

optimistic outlook and like to keep busy with a variety of tic, intuitive, artistic. Bad points: discontented, may un-
intellectual interests. Your mind is not content with a little dervalue your capabilities, confused dealings with rela-
knowledge; you want to know more. Travel is a beneficial tives.
influence for both pleasure and profit. Good points: curi-
ous and open to new experience, able to share ideas, good PLUTO in (Planet of transformation): You have a penetrat-
relationships with relatives. Bad points: restless, impracti- ing mind and seek to learn as much as possible. There is
cal, reckless. an intensity to the way you speak and write, which you

can often use creatively. Travel opens new experiences for
SATURN in (Planet of discipline and limitation): You have a you and sometimes marks a significant turning point in

practical and rather serious mind; you want to learn your life. Good points: curious, good concentration, origi-
things so you can put them to use. You have good powers nal in your thinking. Bad points: suspicious, manipula-
of observation, and prefer to deal in facts rather than the- tive, you want to dominate 
ories. You sometimes procrastinate because you wait to others.

3

Th e  H o u s e s  o f A s t r o l o g y • 3 0 5



3
FOURTH HOUSE (House of Home; also of the Early of childhood and are probably attached to your mother.

and Latter Parts of Life) Circumstances at the end of your life promise to be peace-
ful. Good point: you promote harmony in domestic rela-

SUN in (Planet of vitality and individuality): You take pride tionships. Bad point: you are extravagant in buying pos-

in your home and family; from the time you were young sessions for your home.

you had a deep need to establish roots. One or both of
your parents was a dominant influence in your life; in MARS in (Planet of energy and assertiveness): You have a

some cases you had to struggle for independence. Condi- great desire to own your own home so that you can live

tions surrounding the end of your life promise to be for- independently. In your childhood you may have been in

tunate. Good point: you may benefit through inheritance. conflict with parents, especially your father. Your latter

Bad point: you have a tendency to feel insecure. years promise to be active, and you are unlikely to be de-
pendent on others for a place to live. Good point: enter-

MOON in (Planet of emotions and instincts): You are pro- prising about making money at home. Bad point: quarrel-

tective toward your family and are (may become) a de- some in domestic relations.

voted parent. During your lifetime you can expect to
change residences often, and you like to live near water. JUPITER in (Planet of luck and expansion): You tend to be

During the latter part of life you may achieve public happy and comfortable at home, and take pride in your

recognition. Good point: financial acumen in real estate family. In childhood you probably felt secure and loved by

or family possessions. Bad point: you resist facing up to your parents, and you inherit from them in either a spiri-

reality. tual or material way. The latter part of your life should
find you in comfortable circumstances. Good point: you

MERCURY in (Planet of the mind): Your home is often a should find material success in the city or country of your

place of study or work, and the work you do may lead to birth. Bad point: extravagant and overgenerous in domes-

changes in your residence. Your parents and early home tic affairs or as a 

life stimulated your curiosity to learn. In your latter years parent.

you can expect to be mentally active and to have many
contacts throughout the world. Good point: you deal ra- SATURN in (Planet of discipline and limitation): You are

tionally with family and as a parent. Bad point: restless- concerned about and devoted to your family. In childhood

ness and difficulty in settling down. you may have assumed responsibility at an early age. Sat-
urn in the Fourth House sometimes indicates an early loss

VENUS in (Planet of love and pleasure): Your home is usu- of a father. You will look after those who cared for you as

ally your showplace and you like to surround yourself a child when they are old. You plan carefully for security

with beautiful things. You tend to have happy memories in your old age, and are likely to spend your last years

3 0 6 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



alone and independent. Good point: gain through real es- like and are vaguely dissatisfied with what it really is.
tate. Bad point: difficulty expressing feelings to family There may be family skeletons hidden somewhere. Your
members. latter years will likely be spent in a faraway place. Good

point: you are (may become) an imaginative and stimu-
URANUS in (Planet of change and originality): You are not lating parent. Bad point: tendency for confusion and mis-

a domesticated creature and need a certain amount of in- understandings in family affairs.
dependence. You have had a different childhood from
your friends, or your parents may have had unusual ca- PLUTO in (Planet of transformation): You care intensely
reers. Your life may take a sudden turn and your latter about family matters and want to dominate in your own
years will be spent in an environment you cannot yet en- home. Your parents were probably a profound influence
vision. Good point: successful at entertaining groups in on you but you may never resolve your mixed feelings
your home. Bad point: you can be a disruptive influence about your early home life. Your latter years may be spent
in family relations. secluded and isolated, perhaps working on an important

project. Good point: you feel responsibility toward the
NEPTUNE in (Planet of spirituality and illusion): You prob- family. Bad point: may suffer early loss of parent or

ably have an idealized picture of what home life should be guardian.

3
FIFTH HOUSE (House of Creativity and Sex) MERCURY in (Planet of the mind): You like change and

new people, and probably have a number of love affairs. A

SUN in (Planet of vitality and individuality): You are ener- lover must keep you intellectually interested or you be-

getic and creative, fond of pleasure and good living. You come bored. You have a dramatic way of expressing your-

are interested in art, theater, sports, and like to be with self, and may possess artistic talent. Good point: flair for

people. You may have many love affairs, and you spend communicating with the public. Bad point: overcritical

money with a free hand. Good point: joy in children. Bad with loved ones.

point: pride interferes with love relationships.
VENUS in (Planet of love and pleasure): You like social life

MOON in (Planet of emotions and instincts): You are impul- and being in the spotlight. You attract romance, and usu-

sive about love and tend to follow your heart rather than ally have many lovers. You take pleasure in creative work

your head. You seek out pleasure in life; one of your love and are affectionate with children. Good point: you have

affairs is likely to become public knowledge. You may have the talent to succeed in the artistic and entertainment

a child who becomes famous. Good point: romantic and world. Bad point: self-indulgent and overly fond of ap-

creative imagination. Bad point: overprotective and pos- plause.

sessive of lovers and/or children.

Th e  H o u s e s  o f A s t r o l o g y • 3 0 7



MARS in (Planet of energy and assertiveness): You are rash URANUS in (Planet of change and originality): You are
and impulsive in love affairs, and sometimes too impa- prone to sudden infatuations that also end abruptly. You
tient in lovemaking. You are competitive (in love, sports, may be engaged to marry and then break the engage-
socially) and need to be a winner. You have a personal ment. You like novelty and experimentation in sex. Good
magnetism that draws people to you. Good point: leader- point: innovative and inventive in creative expression.
ship ability. Bad point: conflicts with loved ones because Bad point: may be estranged from children.
of ego.

NEPTUNE in (Planet of spirituality and illusion): You love
JUPITER in (Planet of luck and expansion): You enjoy most pleasure and luxury (sometimes too much); you are very

forms of recreation—sporting events, parties, and theater drawn to the theater or cinema. You bring a fantasy qual-
are special favorites. If there are no opposing influences in ity to lovemaking. You may be involved in one or more il-
your chart, you will be lucky in speculation. You are licit love affairs, which may cause sorrow. Good point:
sometimes indiscreet about love affairs. Good point: chil- artistic talent, especially as actress or actor. Bad point:
dren bring happiness. Bad point: extravagant; sometimes vulnerable to loss through gambling or fraud.
gambling losses.

PLUTO in (Planet of transformation): You are impetuous
SATURN in (Planet of discipline and limitation): Because and passionate and will follow your desires where they

you are disciplined and take life seriously, you often don’t lead you. You exaggerate the importance of your love af-
allow yourself to relax and have fun. You have strong feel- fairs until you become intensely involved. You have a
ings about those you love, but you also need their respect. strong artistic bent. Good point: you feel responsibility to
You may be stern with children. Your periods of unhappi- loved ones. Bad point: you harbor resentment against a
ness have taught you a lesson in life. Good point: con- past love.
scious of duty and responsibility to loved ones. Bad point:
fear of giving too much of yourself in love.

3

3 0 8 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



3
SIXTH HOUSE (House of Service and of Health) Bad point: tendency to laziness and letting others do the

chores.

SUN in (Planet of vitality and individuality): You take pride
in your work and have a talent for organization. You need MARS in (Planet of energy and assertiveness): In your work

to feel appreciated. Health tends to be good, with strong you set out to accomplish things. Keeping impulsiveness

recuperative powers, though you are subject to occasional under control will make you more efficient. You drive

nagging health problems. Good point: you’re an efficient yourself hard and expect others to perform at your level.

problem solver. Bad point: you can be fussy and difficult You have vitality and energy, but are prone to careless ac-

to work for. cidents. Good point: can initiate new work methods. Bad
point: at times intolerant and argumentative with

MOON in (Planet of emotions and instincts): You may coworkers.

change jobs frequently until you find something that truly
suits you. Unhappiness at work may affect your health ad- JUPITER in (Planet of luck and expansion): You tend to be

versely. You may be especially prone to stomach trouble. successful in work and get along well with associates. You

Good point: intuitive and imaginative in work. Bad point: are loyal and dependable, and Jupiter usually brings mon-

unstable and indecisive about responsibility. etary reward. You love good food and tend to gain weight.
Good point: work brings opportunity for travel and ex-

MERCURY in (Planet of the mind): You are something of a pansion. Bad point: health problems because of

perfectionist, which can make day-to-day problems seem overindulgence.

overwhelming. You take an interest in health, diet, and hy-
giene, and are usually well informed about the latest on SATURN in (Planet of discipline and limitation): You are a

these subjects. You have a tendency to be nervous and conscientious and reliable worker and handle responsibil-

may have respiratory or stomach problems. Good point: ity well. You are exacting in your demands on yourself.

practical and efficient, especially in work involving writ- Health may be under strain due to overwork or because

ing or communications. Bad point: a worrier about health you tend to neglect looking after yourself. Good point:

and work. you are admired by colleagues and associates. Bad point:
you can’t accept that there are limitations and obstacles

VENUS in (Planet of love and pleasure): You strive for har- beyond your control.

mony and good relationships with associates on the job.
You don’t like hard or gritty physical labor. Health is URANUS in (Planet of change and originality): You think of

good, though you tend to overindulge in eating and new methods or original ideas in plying your trade. You

drinking. Good point: work situation may bring romance. are also erratic and impatient, and sometimes don’t

Th e  H o u s e s  o f A s t r o l o g y • 3 0 9



achieve as much as a more thorough and disciplined particular hazard and their use should be supervised by a
worker. Your health is subject to unusual complaints that doctor. Good point: a desire to help the unfortunate. Bad
are difficult to diagnose or treat. Good point: ability to point: inclined to laziness and merely drifting along.
modernize, streamline, or improve old ideas. Bad point:
inconsistency in output and devotion to a task. PLUTO in (Planet of transformation): You have great power

of concentration and are intent on seeing results. You
NEPTUNE in (Planet of spirituality and illusion): You are tend to overwork yourself. You take an interest in medi-

idealistic about your work, sensitive to your surroundings cine and health and are sometimes gifted in the healing
and associates. You may have difficulty finding the right arts. Good point: the work you do can inspire others. Bad
circumstances in which you can be happy and comfort- point: physical energy is often sapped by job pressures.
able. Health is subject to strange ailments; drugs are a

3
SEVENTH HOUSE (House of Marriage and MERCURY in (Planet of the mind): You seek intellectual

Partnership) compatibility in marriage and partnerships. You will prob-
ably marry someone lively and talkative; verbal give-and-

SUN in (Planet of vitality and individuality): You are prom- take characterizes your intimate relationships. Business

ised success in marriage and in partnerships. Both should partnerships in law, literary, or communications world are

bring material, monetary, and social benefits. You may not beneficial. Good point: you are sociable, adaptable to all

marry young; your spouse will probably be prominent or kinds of people. Bad point: stress in relationships because

of good and honorable character. Sex is important to you of quarrels and arguments.

in marriage. Good point: you are popular and know how
to attract people. Bad point: clashes at times because of VENUS in (Planet of love and pleasure): You look for har-

your need to be dominant in relationships. mony and fulfillment in both marriage and partnerships.
You are affectionate, romantic, and popular with the op-

MOON in (Planet of emotions and instincts): Security is posite sex. At some point in your life you are likely to gain

very important to you in marriage and relationships. prestige or financial benefit through a mate or partner.

Chances are you will marry a parental figure of some You tend to marry early and possibly more than once.

kind. Your spouse will probably be protective of you. You Good point: you are a natural peacemaker. Bad point: re-

are likely to become popular with the public at some time sentful if others do not make the first move toward you.

in your life. Good point: responsive in partnerships; sen-
sual in marriage. Bad point: changeable in your love rela-
tionships; possible divorce.

3 1 0 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



MARS in (Planet of energy and assertiveness): You are a URANUS in (Planet of change and originality): Partnerships
highly independent individual and won’t give that up in a or marriage may come about suddenly for you. You are
marriage or partnership. Your relationships begin impul- drawn to unusual people and are likely to marry someone
sively, and you are usually the aggressive one. Mars in the intellectually stimulating. As a team you will draw atten-
Seventh House indicates that you may marry more than tion. However, Uranus in the Seventh House indicates the
once, or that a marriage or business partnership may end possibility of sudden divorce and remarriage. Good point:
because of the death of partner. Good point: ardent and you are able to achieve goals through a marriage partner.
sexually passionate in marriage. Bad point: arguments Bad point: your need for independence may cause disrup-
and quarrels in relationships; possible early divorce. tion or jealousy in marriage.

JUPITER in (Planet of luck and expansion): You are suc- NEPTUNE in (Planet of spirituality and illusion): In mar-
cessful in marriage and partnerships, and are likely to gain riage and partnerships you look for compatibility of
power and prestige through both. Jupiter in the Seventh spirit, common goals in life, or an artistic or religious vi-
House often means you will marry twice and that one of sion that you share. However, an unrealistic or confused
your mates is likely to be powerful or wealthy. During attitude about what you want in a partner may lead to the
your lifetime your adversaries often become friends, and possibility of an illicit love affair while married. Good
conflicts have a beneficial ending. Good point: legal part- point: sensitive and responsive to needs of partner. Bad
nerships tend to be fruitful. Bad point: overgenerosity and point: too easily swayed; open to disappointment.
placing your trust in the wrong person.

PLUTO in (Planet of transformation): You are intense and
SATURN in (Planet of discipline and limitation): You are dominating in relationships. You seek fulfillment in mar-

cautious about marriage and partnerships, and may delay riage and are emotionally demanding. Pluto in the Sev-
getting involved until you are sure. You often marry a enth House indicates that you may marry in secret or
widow or widower or someone older than yourself. If elope. Business partnerships are likely to be successful.
there are no opposing influences in your chart, you bene- Good point: you are intuitive about partner’s needs. Bad
fit monetarily or socially through marriage. Good point: point: strife, jealousy, and emotionalism in relationships.
you take commitment to another person seriously. Bad
point: possible legal problems and a setback because of
them.

3

Th e  H o u s e s  o f A s t r o l o g y • 3 1 1



3
EIGHTH HOUSE (House of Death and ment of someone who loves you. Circumstances sur-

Regeneration; also of Legacies) rounding your death promise to be peaceful. Good point:
sexual relationships tend to be harmonious. Bad point:

SUN in (Planet of vitality and individuality): You are philo- laxness and reluctance to handle responsibilities.

sophical and have deep insights; you strive for self-im-
provement. You may benefit from inheritance or from MARS in (Planet of energy and assertiveness): You are pas-

money through a marriage partner. There is the possibility sionate about life and have a strong sex drive. You are at-

of achieving fame near the end of your life or after death. tracted to the occult, also to medicine and the healing

Good point: you take pride in responsibilities. Bad point: arts. There may be conflicts in your family over wills or

may suffer the early loss of father or husband. legacies. Good point: powerful and brilliant researcher.
Bad point: need to protect yourself against financial loss

MOON in (Planet of emotions and instincts): You are a because of an extravagant partner.

deeply sensitive person with a talent for healing. You have
strong powers of suggestion. You are interested in ques- JUPITER in (Planet of luck and expansion): You tend to

tions about death and an afterlife, and quite possibly have have an optimistic and healthy attitude toward life and

psychic ability that you can use in a practical way. You are death, and an abundant sex drive. You will probably enjoy

highly responsive sexually. Finances may be unsettled be- financial gain through inheritance or marriage. Jupiter in

cause of marriage or inheritance. Good point: you can this House promises easy and peaceful conditions at your

guide others in a spiritual way. Bad point: may suffer the death. Good point: your philosophy of life can inspire

early loss of mother or wife. others. Bad point: possibility of wasting other people’s
money.

MERCURY in (Planet of the mind): You have a penetrating
mind and look for some way to communicate your in- SATURN in (Planet of discipline and limitation): You take

sights. You have a talent for research and analysis. Money responsibility for others and may become involved in their

comes to you through other people or a marriage partner, financial affairs. You are inclined to be somewhat inhib-

but there may be insurance or legal problems. Good ited sexually or to have difficulty expressing yourself emo-

point: ability to see into human motivation. Bad point: tionally in sex. Saturn in the Eighth House usually indi-

may suffer the early death of a relative. cates that you will live until ripe old age. Good point: you
are careful about putting aside money to protect loved

VENUS in (Planet of love and pleasure): You are intense ones. Bad point: difficulties over property matters or in-

about sexual involvements and look for fulfillment in heritance.

them. You are likely to inherit money from a loved one or
a marriage partner, or to gain from the career advance-

3 1 2 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



URANUS in (Planet of change and originality): You have an riage partner are a source of trouble or confusion. Good
unusual outlook on life and death, and possibly an inter- point: an idealistic desire to help others in need. Bad
est in the mystical. Sexual tastes or involvements are likely point: may suffer disappointment or be deluded in a sex-
to be unconventional. You may receive sudden financial ual relationship.
benefits from unexpected sources. Good point: you feel a
responsibility to others. Bad point: risk of loss through PLUTO in (Planet of transformation): You have a strong
business deals. drive toward achievement combined with a need to ana-

lyze what you do. You are dominant and passionate in
NEPTUNE in (Planet of spirituality and illusion): You are your sexual nature. Pluto in this House indicates that your

something of a visionary and seek to give your life more death will be of public concern. Good point: self-reliant
meaning. You may be gifted as a medium or possess and resourceful. Bad point: prone toward developing un-
strong ESP powers. Finances that you share with a mar- healthy obsessions.

3
NINTH HOUSE (House of Mental Exploration) MERCURY in (Planet of the mind): You are alert and adapt-

able, quick to establish rapport with new people. Yours is

SUN in (Planet of vitality and individuality): You enjoy see- an exploratory nature, interested in gaining further

ing new places and exploring new ideas. You are a person knowledge. During your middle years you may travel a

who stands by your word and tends to be idealistic. You great deal, both for health and your work. Good point:

may spend a good deal of time traveling abroad. Good mentally advanced. Bad point: inclined to be meddlesome

point: you believe in and pursue an education. Bad point: and to make promises too readily.

may become fanatical about your ideas.
VENUS in (Planet of love and pleasure): You have warmth

MOON in (Planet of emotions and instincts): You have a re- and understanding for people from different backgrounds.

ceptive, imaginative mind capable of delving into philo- You are open to new ideas and experiences. Chances are

sophical ideas. You are attracted by the unknown; in your good that you will receive some kind of honor in life. You

work you may delve into history or the past. At some time may possibly be married abroad or marry a foreigner.

in your career you are likely to benefit from in-laws or rel- Good point: high ideals. Bad point: you long for the unat-

atives of the person you marry. Good point: you will have tainable.

happy experiences on voyages or travel. Bad point: ten-
dency to be vague, dreamy, and impractical. MARS in (Planet of energy and assertiveness): You are inde-

pendent in thought and open to change, and you enjoy
travel and adventure. You will fight for your convictions.
You seek out experience because you want to live life to

Th e  H o u s e s  o f A s t r o l o g y • 3 1 3



the fullest. Good point: will gain in honor or financially horizons. You may be known for your unorthodox views
through higher education. Bad point: can be headstrong or interest in unusual branches of study. Opportunities
and fanatical about ideas. for travel may come up suddenly, or you may experience

exciting events in foreign countries. Good point: adven-
JUPITER in (Planet of luck and expansion): You have turous and open to new experience. Bad point: inclined

strong principles, are adventurous and optimistic. Travel to be rebellious.
and education open new doors for you and may lead to
monetary gain. You have a flair for languages or an ability NEPTUNE in (Planet of spirituality and illusion): You are
to express yourself well. Good point: foreign places drawn to deeper concerns in life, perhaps mystical or
and/or people contribute to your success. Bad point: can philosophical questions. You have imagination and in-
be arrogant and self-righteous. sight, and probably make a fine teacher or counselor.

There may be complications or difficulties in traveling
SATURN in (Planet of discipline and limitation): You are abroad. Good point: visionary and idealistic. Bad point: a

thoughtful and contemplative and have a desire to tendency to be discontented with your lot.
learn. You delve seriously into questions of philosophy,
faith, or religion. Contacts with foreigners are beneficial PLUTO in (Planet of transformation): You have an urge to
in your life, especially with older people. Good point: discover the truth and perhaps change things for the bet-
idealistic principles. Bad point: obstacles or limitations ter. You take an intense interest in other cultures and in
to receiving an education. different religions and philosophies. Travel and foreign

people may affect you deeply. Good point: a desire for
URANUS in (Planet of change and originality): You have an deeper understanding. Bad point: you try to impose your

independent mind, and seek to widen your intellectual views on others.

3
TENTH HOUSE (House of Career) MOON in (Planet of emotions and instincts): You are in-

volved with the public in career, professional, or social ac-

SUN in (Planet of vitality and individuality): You have a tivities, and perhaps will not have much private life. There

strong sense of self and a drive to succeed. Chances are is the possibility that you will change your occupation in

you will achieve success, but most likely in the middle of midlife. The Moon in this House brings career benefits

your life. Problems may arise if ambition and career take through women or female members of your family. Good

precedence over other concerns, such as marriage and re- point: you are intuitive about what the public wants. Bad

lationships. Good point: leadership ability and power to point: a risk of public scandal.

influence others. Bad point: sometimes arrogant and dic-
tatorial.

3 1 4 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



MERCURY in (Planet of the mind): You are able to use facts SATURN in (Planet of discipline and limitation): You are
profitably and can adapt to different kinds of people. Your self-reliant, ambitious, and likely to achieve success. You
career should be intellectually stimulating, for you have have the stamina and perseverance to attain your ambi-
talent in writing or communications. Travel is frequently tion step-by-step. There is the possibility that you will
involved in your work. Good point: success dealing with reach high position toward the end of your life, but that it
persons in authority. Bad point: unforeseen disruptions or will be a lonely place. Good point: self-disciplined and re-
uncertainty in career. sponsible. Bad point: selfish; susceptible to discredit or

disgrace.
VENUS in (Planet of love and pleasure): You have an ability

to use charm and diplomacy to further your interests. You URANUS in (Planet of change and originality): You are an
may be involved in artistic or cultural work or in creating independent type who looks for freedom from interfer-
beauty. You are likely to be popular with the public. Good ence. You achieve success in your work because of your
point: partnership (possibly marriage) should enhance ca- unique or unconventional way of doing things. Your ca-
reer. Bad point: risk of scandal or disappointment reer tends to be marked by sudden or unusual turns and
through or because of women. changes. Good point: original and inventive mind. Bad

point: difficulty dealing with persons in authority.
MARS in (Planet of energy and assertiveness): You have en-

ergy and initiative in career matters and will likely domi- NEPTUNE in (Planet of spirituality and illusion): You have
nate other people. You are ambitious and competitive, high aspirations and are likely to be talented in a creative
and you strive for independence or to get rid of interfer- way. Your imagination and intuition are helpful tools in
ence. Your self-reliance and executive ability should bring your career. Neptune in this House indicates an unusual
status within your occupation. Good point: you deal with profession or possibly success using a different name.
practical problems rather than vague theories. Bad point: Good point: idealistic and spiritual outlook. Bad point: li-
possibility of frustration due to unrealized goals. able to become confused by going in too many directions

at once.
JUPITER in (Planet of luck and expansion): Your desire to

achieve in life will likely have good results in your career. PLUTO in (Planet of transformation): Your intense person-
You are confident, sociable, able to deal successfully with ality makes its mark in career matters. You usually have a
people. Jupiter in this House often confers public honor flair for business and knowledge of how to elicit support
or esteem. Good point: ability to win favor of influentials. from others. During your lifetime you are likely to achieve
Bad point: tendency toward an arrogant, devil-may-care a position of power and independence. Good point: force-
attitude. ful and dynamic energy. Bad point: subject to unforeseen

twists of fate with loss of prestige.

3

Th e  H o u s e s  o f A s t r o l o g y • 3 1 5



3
ELEVENTH HOUSE (House of Hopes and Wishes; MARS in (Planet of energy and assertiveness): You actively in-

also of Friends) volve yourself with friends and tend to be a leader in your
circle. Your associations with others are likely to be based

SUN in (Planet of vitality and individuality): You are socially on mutual assistance or favors. You have definite goals and

popular, able to attract and keep friends. You usually ben- objectives in life that you energetically pursue. Good point:

efit through their faith and support. You have high goals willingness to help or be responsible toward others. Bad

in life, and an optimism that wins others to your cause. point: you can be quarrelsome and argumentative.

Good point: idealistic and creative. Bad point: a tendency
to be domineering with others. JUPITER in (Planet of luck and expansion): You are popu-

lar with others, and your associations bring you luck and

MOON in (Planet of emotions and instincts): Your easy so- happiness. You have high ideals and will likely gain your

cial charm attracts admirers. At some time in your life objectives. You know how to deal successfully with promi-

your goals shift and friendships are likely to change. You nent and important people and will benefit from their in-

have a flair for entertaining in your home. Good point: fluence. Good point: cooperative and generous with

emotionally intuitive in dealing with people. Bad point: friends. Bad point: you rely on undependable or parasiti-

accessible to unreliable friends and scandal not of your cal friends.

making.
SATURN in (Planet of discipline and limitation): You form

MERCURY in (Planet of the mind): You should have a large a few true and lasting friendships rather than cultivate

number of acquaintances, for you adapt yourself to a vari- many superficial acquaintances. You have high aspira-

ety of different people. Your friendships tend to be based tions, but must often cope with mundane delays and ob-

on an intellectual rapport. You are socially minded and stacles. The discipline you learn early in life brings free-

usually become involved with groups, clubs, and societies. dom later on. Good point: determination to reach

Good point: clever at thinking of ways to achieve your objectives. Bad point: victimized by unscrupulous or self-

goals. Bad point: inclined to be impractical and/or cynical. ish motives on the part of others.

VENUS in (Planet of love and pleasure): You are sociable URANUS in (Planet of change and originality): Your attach-

and fond of people and usually have lots of friends. You ments and friendships often form suddenly. You are at-

will likely benefit from your associations in both a social tracted to people with unusual interests and from differ-

and a monetary way. You are drawn to marry a friend or ent walks in life; you may be involved with the occult.

someone you meet through a group or association. Good Your ideals and ambitions are not run-of-the-mill, and

point: a tactful, diplomatic touch with people. Bad point: you are often thought of as a unique personality. Good

you are likely to confuse friendship with love. point: lively and inventive attitude toward achieving

3 1 6 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



goals. Bad point: suffer estrangements from friends, and PLUTO in (Planet of transformation): You are a strong, vital
consequent emotional upsets. force in the lives of your friends, and involve yourself

deeply with them. You are something of a reformer, and
NEPTUNE in (Planet of spirituality and illusion): You are seek to bring about a change for the better in any situa-

drawn to artistic, sensitive people and are likely to form tion. You feel intensely about your goals and may even
friendships because of goals you share in common. You have an obsessive personality. Good point: strong loyalty
are inclined to be an idealistic, compassionate person, to friends. Bad point: vulnerable to separation or sorrow
concerned with giving help to others. You may join a hu- through death of friends.
manitarian organization or a group with visionary aims.
Good point: intuitive to the needs of others. Bad point:
you suffer because of unreliable or treacherous friends.

3
TWELFTH HOUSE (House of Secrets, Sorrows, and MERCURY in (Planet of the mind): You tend to be a con-

Self-Undoing) templative, self-absorbed, insightful thinker who works
things out for yourself, alone or in secret. You worry over

SUN in (Planet of vitality and individuality): You like privacy trifles and inconsequentials, and may be very shy. Good

and quiet and the joys of meditation and reflection. You point: an instinctive researcher or investigator. Bad point:

may be reticent or have difficulty expressing yourself and vulnerable to slander.

are close to only a few people. Success comes later in life
rather than earlier. Good point: a deep spiritual under- VENUS in (Planet of love and pleasure): Emotional and sen-

standing. Bad point: you tend to lead a secluded or lonely sitive, you are capable of giving true and selfless love. You

life. are most content when leading a private and secluded life.
There is the possibility of a secret love affair. Good point:

MOON in (Planet of emotions and instincts): You are sensi- artistic and creative urges. Bad point: danger of an un-

tive, receptive, and intuitive toward other people. Too eas- happy marriage or sexual alliance.

ily hurt, you hide your real feelings. Often you need to get
away to restore yourself, think, and meditate. Good point: MARS in (Planet of energy and assertiveness): You keep your

a creative imagination. Bad point: often insecure; possible deep and vehement feelings secret from the world. You

disappointment comes through mother or family. have strong intuitive powers that can be used to advantage
in personal relationships. Your sexual nature is intense but
repressed. Good point: active imagination. Bad point:
danger from secret enemies.

Th e  H o u s e s  o f A s t r o l o g y • 3 1 7



JUPITER in (Planet of luck and expansion): You lean to- you by others. During one period in your life you may
ward the spiritual or have an uplifting religious or philo- spend time alone in foreign countries or strange places.
sophical faith. Your success in work helps or benefits oth- Good point: you are humanitarian and compassionate.
ers, and you are most attracted to medicine or social Bad point: you are subject to sudden and unexpected ad-
work. You also have a gift for producing inspired versities.
thoughts in seclusion. Good point: a compassionate and
charitable nature. Bad point: impractical; you rely on oth- NEPTUNE in (Planet of spirituality and illusion): You are
ers too much. deep and sensitive and likely to possess a strong artistic

bent. You prefer to work and live in a quiet atmosphere
SATURN in (Planet of discipline and limitation): You are where you can create or meditate. There may be a myste-

reserved, somewhat solitary or reclusive. You place limita- rious or otherworldly quality to your personality. Good
tions on yourself because of cautiousness or fear. You find point: kind and helpful toward others. Bad point: afraid
it hard to share your feelings with others and may carry a of life or harsh experiences.
secret sorrow with you. Good point: successful when
working alone and in seclusion. Bad point: possibility of PLUTO in (Planet of transformation): You have a com-
loneliness or isolation later in life. pelling desire to understand, to see deeply into philosoph-

ical questions. There may be a secret sex involvement in
URANUS in (Planet of change and originality): You are very your life. You are a private person and do not share your

intuitive, perhaps psychic, and are attracted to unusual emotions easily. Good point: profound imagination. Bad
beliefs in religion or metaphysics. Your need to be inde- point: may hide feelings of anger or resentment.
pendent in thought fights against limitations placed on

3

3 1 8 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



8
9

H O W  T O  I N T E R P R E T  
Y O U R  H O R O S C O P E

n this  chapter you w ill learn , step by step, how to interpret your birth chart or horoscope. The

Iterms birth chart and horoscope here are used interchangeably, although they are not precisely the same. A
horoscope is simply a map of the heavens—specifically the part of the heavens we call the zodiac.* A horo-

scope can be cast for any given point in time; for example, at the beginning of a new business enterprise. A birth
chart is a horoscope for the moment of birth. When a person speaks about “my horoscope,” he or she means a
map of the zodiac for his or her birth time.

There was a time, not too long ago, when setting up a horoscope was a laborious process. Many complicated
mathematical steps were involved and, by and large, people were dependent on professional astrologers to do
the job. Happily, though, we are now living in the age of information—the computer has given everyone access
to his or her complete, detailed, accurate natal chart. This book, for example, comes packaged with a CD-ROM
that you can easily slip into your computer. Just key in the birth data and within seconds you can obtain a chart
for anyone.

Casting a chart is easy—the interpretation is more complex. Charts are filled with astrological detail, and
every one of these scores of details has a meaning. Putting together all the intricate denotations is a fine art. It is
similar to the process a physician or therapist goes through looking for a diagnosis. In addition to extensive
knowledge of astrology, this synthesis requires keen observation, an understanding heart, insight, and some-
thing more—an “extra-sensory” sense, a flash of seeing. And like finding a good therapist, finding someone who
can offer an interpretation that is incisive, penetrating, compassionate and revelatory can be tricky.

But this does not mean you cannot read a horoscope. You can—and you can do this using some easy exer-
cises that offer much information. This chapter provides you with simple tools that start delineating an overall

*A detailed explanation of the zodiac is given on page 383.

3 1 9



picture of yourself. Begin with your own horoscope (yours is the most fascinating). Shortly you’ll amass a good
deal of detailed information about your strengths and talents, your likes, weaknesses, needs, and hidden agendas.

Throughout this chapter, I illustrate each exercise with a Sample Chart. For this Sample Chart, I chose the
horoscope of Oprah Winfrey, the charismatic talk show host and media super-celebrity who has touched an ex-
traordinary chord with the public.

8
What Is a Birth Chart?

Just as your fingerprints, blood type, and ge-
netic code were all set at the moment of your birth and

all comprise a picture of you, so your birth chart was im-
printed at the time of your birth and is a composite por-
trait of you.

What is a birth chart? It is a diagram of the zodiac at
the moment you were born. As explained earlier, you can
think of it as a pictograph of you as a newborn baby, lying
on the circle of Earth, looking all around you at the sky
bubble that surrounds you.

3
Nowadays a horoscope is drawn as a circle, though in

old astrology books you will find horoscopes in the shape
of a square. The circle is far easier to use and clearer to see
at a glance.

Every horoscope is divided into twelve parts, like a pie
cut into twelve pieces:

3 2 0 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



Each of the twelve segments in a horoscope represents
one of the houses of astrology, which were described in
the previous chapter. The lines (which look like the spokes
of the wheel) are known as the cusps of the houses. A cusp
is the point at which a house begins.

The houses of a horoscope always follow the same pat-
tern. The First House begins at the “nine o’clock” position.
The houses then go counterclockwise around the wheel 
of the horoscope. The Second House begins at the eight 
o’clock position. The Third House begins at the seven 
o’clock position, and so on through the twelve houses.
Here is what the houses look like pictured in a horoscope:

3
Generally, charts use symbols rather than words. If you The symbols for each planet are:
are looking at a chart produced by a computer, you will
see that the signs, planets and aspects are indicated in Sun   Jupiter  

symbols. The symbols (called glyphs) for each zodiac sign Moon   Saturn  

are: Mercury   Uranus  
Venus   Neptune  

Aries   Libra   Mars   Pluto  

Taurus   Scorpio  
Gemini   Sagittarius  
Cancer  	 Capricorn  

Leo   Aquarius  
Virgo   Pisces  

H ow  to  I n t e r p re t  Yo u r  Ow n  H o r o s c o p e • 3 2 1



8
Oprah Winfrey’s Birth Chart

Oprah Winfrey The Sun is in 9° Aquarius in the Second House

Born January 29, 1954, at 4:30 a.m. Central Standard Time, The Moon is in 4° Sagittarius in the Eleventh House

in Kosciusko, Mississippi Mercury is in 19° Aquarius in the Second House

Latitude 33'03" North, Longitude 89'35" West Venus is in 8° Aquarius in the Second House

Ascendant is 29 Sagittarius Mars is in 23° Scorpio in the Eleventh House
Jupiter is in 16° Gemini Retrograde in the Sixth House
Saturn is in 9° Scorpio in the Tenth House
Uranus is in 20° Cancer Retrograde in the Seventh House
Neptune is in 26° Libra Retrograde in the Tenth House
Pluto is in 24° Leo Retrograde in the Eighth House

3 2 2 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



8
Interpretation

Now you have your computer birth chart. What chapter 8, “The Houses of Astrology,” and read the de-

next? scription for each of your planets now that you know in

You will notice that a chart is made up of three which houses they belong.

components: Planets, Signs, and Houses. These are the For example, Oprah Winfrey has the Sun in her Second

three tools of a chart. Planets are the forces that act. Signs House. On page 303, we will read she needs security and

represent how the planets act. Houses represent where the attracts money that can go in and out of her life quickly.

planets act. She gains through influential people, and her possessions

To begin your interpretation, make a list of your plan- tend to increase in value. She is generous, has great

ets, signs, and houses. List your Sun, Moon, and planets in strength and persistence, but can be possessive and osten-

one column called Planets,* the signs in which they are tatious. As you read through the descriptions for the plan-

found in a second column called In What Sign, and the ets in your particular houses, you should jot down some

houses in which they are found in a third column called In keywords next to the houses in the third column. For ex-

What House. ample, in Oprah’s birth chart I would write down the fol-

At this point, you will find it useful to go back into lowing:

PLANET IN WHAT SIGN IN WHAT HOUSE

Sun Aquarius Second House
Needs security. Attracts money that comes and goes quickly.
Gains through influential people. Possessions increase in value.
Strong, persistent, possessive.

*For the sake of convenience, the Sun and Moon, which are luminaries, are referred to as Planets.

H ow  to  I n t e r p re t  Yo u r  Ow n  H o r o s c o p e • 3 2 3



When you have finished going through all ten planets planets in the various signs that apply to you. This time,
in their houses and made your notes, turn to chapter 7, you should jot down notes in the second column. For ex-
“You and the Planets,” and read the descriptions for the ample, in the above entry I would write the following:

PLANET IN WHAT SIGN IN WHAT HOUSE

Sun Aquarius Second House
Intellectually independent. Enjoys ideas 
and learning. Friendly. A communicator,
visionary and humanitarian. An idealist 
who searches for answers. Gift for 
dealing with all kinds of personalities.
Likes to be contrary and different, can be 
argumentative.

Go through this process for each of the ten planets in This is the beginning of the fine art of synthesis—of
your chart, making notes in both the Signs column and the learning how to interpret a chart. It is not only fun but
Houses column. When you are finished, look down your also will sharpen your observation of other people as well
list. You will see that you have various pieces of informa- as your insights into yourself. The more you do it, the
tion. You can put together these pieces of information to better you will become at it.
form an accurate description of the person.

3 2 4 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y




Sample Chart

In Oprah Winfrey’s birth chart, the list of Planets, Signs, and Houses would look something like this:

Ascendant in Sagittarius

Needs independence and freedom. Cannot bear to be stifled. Is progressive, restless in spirit, ready to accept new challenges.
A humanitarian and idealist who cares deeply about injustice. A knack for making friends. Open to new ideas and enjoys ex-
change of opinions. Honest, frank, impulsive, self-indulgent (food, money), and can make wrong choices in love.

PLANET IN WHAT SIGN IN WHAT HOUSE

Sun In Aquarius In Second House
Intellectually independent. Enjoys ideas Needs security. Attracts money that comes and goes quickly.
and learning. Friendly. A communicator, Gains through influential people. Possessions increase in value.
visionary and humanitarian. An idealist Strong, persistent, possessive.
who searches for answers. Gift for dealing
with all kinds of personalities. Likes to be
contrary and different; can be
argumentative.

Moon In Sagittarius In Eleventh House
Adventurous, exuberant, open-minded Social charm attracts admirers. Goals and friendships may
and sincere. Has expansive outlook and change throughout lifetime. A flair for entertaining. Emotionally
breadth of vision. Loves higher learning. intuitive in dealing with people. May encounter unreliable
Envisions high goals and rushes forward friends or scandal.
to achieve them. Sense of humor; witty
way with words. Has talent for
salesmanship, great adaptability. Perceives
the best in people. Needs personal space
and independence.

H ow  to  I n t e r p re t  Yo u r  Ow n  H o r o s c o p e • 3 2 5



PLANET IN WHAT SIGN IN WHAT HOUSE

Mercury In Aquarius In Second House
Inquisitive, inventive, interested in people Able to earn money in writing, lecturing, any field of
and their motivations. Is drawn to communications. Spends money on travel, education; has more
philosophy, metaphysics, the future of than one source of income. Quick mind for financial
mankind. Advanced ideas. Especially opportunity; can be impractical and vulnerable to trickery.
suited for progressive professions, such as
work in science and television. Can shock
people.

Venus In Aquarius In Second House
Helpful, charitable and giving. Kind and Prospers through social connections. Businesses with partners
loving nature. Needs love relationship that are lucrative. Generous, fair, attracts money though beautiful
allows freedom to explore her interests, things (fashion, decorating). Often extravagant and has lack of
hobbies, new people, and many willpower in spending habits.
friendships. Is immensely popular, but
tends to direct personal magnetism
toward larger concerns than mere
romance. Will realize her dreams, often
later in life.

Mars In Scorpio In Eleventh House
Hard-driving and resourceful. Has great A leader in her circle; actively involved with friends, groups and
persistence, relentlessness, intensity and causes. Involvements with people based on helping each other.
determination. Disciplined efforts are Responsible toward others. Has definite goals she energetically
directed toward a purpose. A powerful pursues. Can be quarrelsome or argumentative.
creative drive, as well as sexual drive.
Attracted to danger or issues around
death. Able to move audiences.

Jupiter In Gemini In Sixth House
Adventurous attitude; knack for finding Loyal, dependable, has success working with associates. Personal
advantageous situations. Moneymaking fulfillment and financial gain being of service. Finds work with
opportunities come through friends and opportunity for travel and expansion. Has weakness for good
contacts. Best success in intellectual areas, food; tends to gain weight and possible health problems because
such as teaching, lecturing, and profits of overindulgence.
financially in communications
(publishing, TV reporting, commentating,
acting). Versatile, clever, makes name in
more than one profession.

3 2 6 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



PLANET IN WHAT SIGN IN WHAT HOUSE

Saturn In Scorpio In Tenth House
Strong will. Has subtlety, force, and Self-reliant, ambitious, disciplined and responsible. Has stamina
dominating strength under a genial and perseverance to attain ambitions. Achieves success. Will
exterior. Understands human motivation. reach high position, though it may be a lonely place. Is
Executive ability; unswerving commitment susceptible to discredit.
to goals. Obstacles in her path in the form
of emotional difficulties and scandal.
Secret love affair may bring sorrow or
trouble. Liable to suffer loss of loved ones
early in life.

Uranus In Cancer In Seventh House
Heightened sensitivity to others. Insight Drawn to unusual people; partnerships or marriage may come
comes through sudden and unexpected about suddenly. Element of the unusual in a marriage-like
feelings. Intuitions can be trusted. Highly relationship; may be broken quickly, or be in relationship
developed imagination. Opportunity without marriage. Achieves goals through partnerships. Need for
comes through chance encounters and independence may cause disruption to marriage or marriage
intervention of other people. Has artistic plans.
temperament; can be eccentric and
unpredictable.

Neptune In Libra In Tenth House
Emphasizes idealism and love; a belief in High aspirations. Idealistic and spiritual outlook. Creative talent.
brotherly love and resistance to inequity. An unusual profession; imagination and intuition are helpful
Deeply bothered by injustice in the world. tools in career. May run into confusion going in too many
Possesses a magnetic attraction; can have directions at once.
unrealistic or unconventional view of
marriage.

Pluto In Leo In Eighth House
A love of power, domineering personality, Dominant and passionate in feelings. Strong drive toward
strong pride and will to prevail despite achievement. A need to analyze. Will move through some kind
obstacles. Can be arrogant and pleasure- of ending or death (or death-like experience) and create new
seeking. Tends to hero-worship beginning.
personalities in the media.

H ow  to  I n t e r p re t  Yo u r  Ow n  H o r o s c o p e • 3 2 7



The most prominent theme in Oprah’s birth chart is derlined by Jupiter (planet of luck and blessings) in Gem-

the power to achieve. Again and again, her planets and ini, the sign of communication. As a very young child

their placements speak of persistence, drive, determina- Oprah was taught to read by her grandmother, and Oprah

tion, and making the most of opportunity. Certainly, she has said books became the most profound influence in her

has needed this in a life that reads like a soap opera. She is life. “When I didn’t have friends I had books, and books

black, a female, an illegitimate child born in extreme opened a window to a world full of possibilities”—a state-

poverty in an area of the United States known for its ment that embodies her Moon in Sagittarius (the sign of

racism and segregation. In earliest childhood Oprah was possibilities) and her expansive Jupiter in Gemini (the sign

raised by her maternal grandmother (who took in laun- of writing and ideas). By the time she was three, Oprah

dry) on a farm that had no indoor plumbing. As a child was memorizing and performing dramatic readings in

she had no shoes or toys, no TV, telephone or store- front of the congregation in her church; the church ladies

bought clothes, and only the food that was grown on the called her the “talkingest child” and a “champion speaker.”

farm. Yet she has become one of the most wealthy, influ- Oprah has been successful in numerous career venues—

ential, instantly recognizable women in the world. TV, movies, book and magazine publishing, theater—but all

Oprah’s Sun sign is Aquarius, and she has Mercury and of them revolve around communication. From her start as a

Venus also in Aquarius with Venus in almost exact con- talk-show host in 1984 in Chicago, Oprah’s shows have won

junction to her Sun. Thus the Aquarian qualities of reach- a phenomenal following; currently The Oprah Winfrey Show

ing out to a larger life, a belief in learning and ideas, and is seen in 122 countries. Oprah’s Book Club has become one

having humanitarian ideals are triply emphasized. Her of the most powerful tools in the world to promulgate read-

Sun-Venus conjunction shows enormous likeability— ing, not to mention create overnight bestsellers. In 2000

Oprah has warmth and genuineness, and seems to speak Oprah launched a magazine, called O, which (like her other

from the heart. Aquarius is noted for intellectualism, evi- projects in the field of communication) became an immedi-

dent in everything Oprah has done in her career in TV, ate and huge success. The magazine concentrates on inspi-

film, magazines and the media. Yet Venus being joined to rational and self-help articles designed, in Oprah’s words,

her Sun says that love is a strong theme—her love of “to help readers live their best life” (Sun in Aquarius, Moon

learning, finding out about people, her humanitarian ef- in Sagittarius). Some critics have called Oprah—and her TV

forts, her love of performing, and especially the way her show and magazine—preachy, self-indulgent, New Agey,

audiences love her. and egotistic. Interestingly, these are some of the negative

She does have Mercury (planet of communication and qualities of Aquarius (where Oprah has her Sun, Mercury,

thinking-processes) in Aquarius, which denotes an inde- and Venus).

pendent, inquiring mind, someone interested in a wide From the beginning, Oprah’s upward climb and the

range of subjects and who is a brilliant communicator. “finding of herself” can be traced to her love of communi-

Her love of ideas and gift for communicating are also un- cating. It also helps that she has benefited from others’

3 2 8 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



opening a door, a chance to try, and especially a willing- Oprah became pregnant, a fact she hid from her father
ness to leap into the lion’s den of situations she knew and his wife, and gave birth to a premature baby who died
nothing about. When she was in high school she joined two weeks later (Saturn in Scorpio, Pluto in the 8th
the debating team, made the honor list, was elected presi- House). In her teens, Oprah took a self-destructive path of
dent of the student body, appeared in school plays, was a sexual promiscuity, experimentation with drugs, lying,
prominent speaker in her church. In her senior year, she running away from home. Her mother was about to place
was voted Most Popular and won a scholarship to college. her in a home for wayward girls, but the home had no im-
She also snagged a part-time job reading news stories on a mediate room for her. Oprah remembers thinking at the
small local radio. This, in turn, lead to her doing a five- time, “I am a smart girl. How did I get here?” She was sent
minute spot on TV when she was a sophomore in college. back to live with her father, and at that point Oprah’s es-

Her career is marked by a pattern in which she was sential belief in herself (Sun in Aquarius), and her deter-
recognized as a natural on air and offered opportunities mination (Mars and Saturn in Scorpio), took hold and she
(first as a newscaster, then as interviewer) that she turned her young life around.
snatched up and made good at. Step by extraordinary step, Oprah’s childhood, home and family life are marked
Oprah would find her niche and turn a small success into by disruption and conflict (Aries, sign of independence as
a bigger one. The Saturn-in-Scorpio themes of persist- well as conflict is on the cusp of Oprah’s 4th House of
ence, jumping into a scary place, not giving up, are re- Home and Childhood). She was first raised by her grand-
peated. In those early years she was described as a “warm, mother because her 18-year-old mother could not care for
bubbly personality who could get people to open up” and her. At the age of six, Oprah was sent to live with her
a “universal woman” (apt descriptions for the Sun, Mer- mother, who over the next several years had two more
cury and Venus in Aquarius, Jupiter in Gemini, an Ascen- out-of-wedlock children (half-siblings to Oprah). At eight,
dant and Moon in Sagittarius, and Neptune in Libra in Oprah was sent to her father, Vernon, and his wife.
the 10th House). Throughout her teens Oprah was shunted back and forth

One of the most interesting parts of a chart is the between her mother and father, which resulted not only in
“dark side”—and another theme in Oprah’s horoscope is a lack of emotional security but in conflict in parental ex-
struggle, pain, separation, and death (in both a literal and pectations. Her mother, gone much of the time and work-
figurative manner). Pluto (planet of darkness and transi- ing long hours, did not care for Oprah’s “book learning,”
tion, as well as power and profound experiences) is in her whereas her father was adamant about education and dis-
Eighth House of Sex, Death (or death-like experiences), cipline. In her horoscope, Oprah’s Moon (an indicator of
Endings and Rebirthing. Oprah has spoken of the sexual one’s relationship to mother) is in the sign of Sagittarius,
abuse she suffered starting when she was nine. The abuse, which points to distance and space to her mother. Oprah’s
by an older male cousin and later an uncle, went on for Saturn (an indicator of relationship to father) is in Scor-
years, and Oprah hid this terrible secret. When she was 14 pio, which shows a far more intense connection to a

H ow  to  I n t e r p re t  Yo u r  Ow n  H o r o s c o p e • 3 2 9



strong, controlling figure. In Oprah’s life, her father’s con- self, her real estate holdings, etc. She has created two huge

trol was a key element in her “rescue” as a young teenager. charities, the Oprah Winfrey Foundation and the Angel

In her open Aquarius-Sagittarius fashion, Oprah has Network, to which she has given more than $60 million of

shared, on-air and in her magazine, about her personal her own money and raised millions more. Her humanitar-

demons—her shame and guilt about her hidden sexual ian work (Sun, Mercury, and Venus in Aquarius, Moon in

abuse, her early history with men who treated her badly, Sagittarius, Neptune in 10th House, Moon and Mars in

her weight problems, and struggle to love herself. She has 11th House) has aided lives around the world, contributed

said much of the pain she has experienced was the result to schools, libraries, hospitals, established educational and

of worrying about what people would think of her. health centers in South Africa for poor children, and

Another theme in Oprah’s chart is money. The public’s helped to change laws in this country (the Oprah Bill

perception of Oprah centers on her superstardom, media signed into law in 1993 tracks convicted child abusers).

presence, power, influence, the humanitarian work. Yet her Oprah says, “You become what you believe—not what

chart definitely outlines major money. Three planets (Sun, you wish or want but what you truly believe.” So it would

Mercury, and Venus) in her House of Money, plus Pluto, seem that with her Sun in Aquarius, and Moon and Ascen-

Neptune and Saturn in Houses that relate to money, show dant in Sagittarius, she truly did believe she was special

an overwhelming theme of financial gain. Indeed, Oprah (she told this to her teacher in kindergarten) and she was

is a billionaire (she became a millionaire at 30 when she going to “fly all over this world” (said to her mother when

made a syndication deal for her Chicago TV talk show). she was eight).

Interestingly she does not spend her wealth only on her-

3 3 0 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



8
Other Things to Look for in a Chart

The Elements Formula Fire Signs Aries, Leo, Sagittarius

There are ten planets in a chart (remember that the Earth Signs Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn

Sun and Moon are referred to as planets), and each planet Air Signs Gemini, Libra, Aquarius

is in a sign. The astrological signs fall into four basic Water Signs Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces

groups called elements. The elements are fire, earth, air,
and water. What do the four elements mean in a chart?

ELEMENT KEYWORD

FIRE Energetic. Active. Enthusiastic. Passionate. A need to express oneself. Impulsive. Takes the 
initiative. Outgoing. Tends to be extroverted.

EARTH Practical. Stable. Places importance on security. Patient. Industrious. Strong-willed. Able to 
apply oneself toward long-range goal.

AIR Communicative. Intelligent. Likes to deal on a mental plane. Quickly grasps ideas. Can 
speak or write effectively. Takes a rational viewpoint.

WATER Emotional. Intuitive. Sensitive to surroundings and to other people. Creative. Good powers 
of imagination. Empathetic. A person of hidden depths.

One of the things to look for in a chart is which ele- To come up with the answer, you must calculate the
ments are dominant and which are weak or lacking. Is Elements Formula in your chart. This is extremely simple
there more earth than fire? Does this chart accent water to do. You just count the number of planets that are in fire
more than air? Does one element dominate or is one ele- signs, in earth signs, in water signs, and in air signs.
ment missing? Is this chart evenly balanced among all four
elements?

H ow  to  I n t e r p re t  Yo u r  Ow n  H o r o s c o p e • 3 3 1



Calculate the Elements Formula for your chart. Now • If a chart is deficient in air—The subject is likely to
note which elements are most stressed, which elements have difficulty expressing exactly what he or she
are least stressed, and which are not present at all. means to say. There may be misunderstandings or

crossed wires in communicating. He or she is proba-
• If a chart is deficient in fire—The subject is likely to bly not too interested in abstract ideas or intellectual

have difficulty putting ideas into action. He or she pursuits.
does not tend to promote himself or herself aggres- • If a chart is deficient in water—The subject likely
sively, and may wait to be motivated by outward cir- does not have a lot of sensitivity to other people’s
cumstances and other people. feelings. He or she may be self-oriented or selfish.

• If a chart is deficient in earth—The subject is likely Also he or she may have difficulty expressing emo-
to be impractical and may have trouble holding on tion and may keep feelings bottled up.
to money. He or she often lacks the ability to work
hard and tends to grow impatient if the results of The Elements Formula is a simple but useful device for
effort are too long in coming. seeing the overall picture of a personality at a glance.


SAMPLE CHART

Let us add up the elements in Oprah Winfrey’s birth chart. Oprah’s chart is heavily weighted toward Air (com-
There are: munication, intelligence, an idea-person, speaks effectively),

with a secondary emphasis on Water (emotion, intuition,
2 planets in fire signs 0 planets in earth signs sensitivity and empathy to others). She also has two planets,
5 planets in air signs 3 planets in water signs one of them the powerful Moon, in Fire, which points to her

energy, emotional courage, enthusiasm and need to express
Her chart therefore has the following Elements Formula: herself. She has no planets in Earth, showing that she is far less

directed toward finding security than in exploring new ideas.
Fire 2 Earth 0 Air 5 Water 3 Her chart says her work in the world is her true “stable home.”

If the Sun and Moon are given double weight, the Elements
(Since every chart contains ten planets, the Formula must Formula looks like this:
always add up to 10. Some leading astrologers, like Charles
Jayne, suggest that the Sun and Moon be given double Fire 3 Earth 0 Air 6 Water 3
weight because they are such important influences in your
horoscope. If you do that, the Sun would count for 2, the With this formula, Oprah’s chart is still overwhelmingly
Moon would count for 2, and the rest of the planets would weighted toward Air, with a secondary emphasis on Water and
be 1 each. The total would therefore be 12.) Fire.

3 3 2 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



The Qualities Formula What do these four qualities mean in a chart?
Just as you look at a chart to determine what elements In the same way that you arrived at an Elements For-

are dominant, you should study a chart to see which mula for your chart, count up the planets in the chart that
“qualities” are prominent. are in Cardinal, Fixed, and Mutable signs and write down

The astrological signs fall into three groups of Quali- the Qualities Formula.
ties. They are Cardinal, Fixed, and Mutable.

Cardinal Signs Aries, Cancer, Libra,
Capricorn 3

Fixed Signs Taurus, Leo, Scorpio,
Aquarius

Mutable Signs Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius,
Pisces

QUALITY KEYWORDS

CARDINAL Open to change. Emphasis on action. Tries to change environment. Projects self onto surroundings.
FIXED Resistant to change. Single-minded in pursuits. Not easily swayed. Tries to mold environment

to the will.
MUTABLE Changeable and flexible. Mentally explorative. Emphasis on intellectual activity. Adaptable

to environment.

If a chart is weighted with the Cardinal quality—The change in life. If a chart has too little of the Fixed quality,
subject is likely to be restless, impatient, or domineering. If the subject may have little endurance or stability.
a chart has too little of the Cardinal quality, the subject If a chart is weighted with the Mutable quality—The
may lack initiative. subject is likely to be vacillating, unreliable, or unable to

If a chart is weighted with the Fixed quality—The sub- accept responsibility. If a chart has too little of the Muta-
ject is likely to be stubborn, rigid, tyrannical, or afraid of ble quality, the subject may lack adaptability.

3

H ow  to  I n t e r p re t  Yo u r  Ow n  H o r o s c o p e • 3 3 3




SAMPLE CHART

For example, in Oprah Winfrey’s birth chart there are: turns her force into those quests. She has an equal secondary
emphasis (two planets apiece) on the Cardinal and Mutable

2 planets in Cardinal signs qualities, meaning she is also open to change, an initiator,
6 planets in Fixed signs likes to explore mentally, and can go with the flow.
2 planets in Mutable signs If the Sun and Moon are given double weight, the Qualities

Formula looks like this:
Therefore, the Qualities Formula is:

Cardinal 2
Cardinal 2 Fixed 7
Fixed  6 Mutable 3
Mutable 2

The emphasis is still overwhelmingly on the Fixed quality,
Here we find a heavy emphasis on Fixed (single-minded in underlining Oprah’s persistence and stubbornness. Her

pursuits; tries to mold environment to her will). She is Mutable quality (of mental exploration) is now ahead of the
strongly directed toward what she wants to make happen and Cardinal quality.

8
What Chart Type Are You?

This interesting personality guide was devised by the well-known American astrologer Marc Edmund Jones in
his book The Guide to Horoscope Interpretation. Jones formulated seven distinct personality types based entirely on the

pattern that the planets form in a chart.
In this chart analysis, you look only at the picture of the chart. To begin, draw a blank horoscope circle and divide it

into twelve sections. Now, referring to your birth chart, place a large dot (one for each planet) in the section of the horo-
scope in which each planet appears. There should be ten dots in all.

3 3 4 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



For example, Oprah Winfrey’s birth chart, which looks has a pattern that looks like this:
like this:

3
Study your pattern, and match it up to one of the fol-

lowing seven types:

This chart is similar to the Splash, but the key differ-
In this chart the planets occupy as many signs as possi- ence is that there is at least one stellium in the chart. (A

ble, scattered all over the twelve sections. This type of per- stellium is a grouping of three or more planets in one
son has a great many interests in life, studies or reads sign.) A Splay person is very individual and refuses to be
about a wide variety of topics, and may be proficient in a regimented by other people’s rules or conventions. He or
number of areas. The problem is that sometimes the she tends to have unusual tastes and interests and will fol-
Splash type scatters his or her energies. low those dictates and no one else’s.

H ow  to  I n t e r p re t  Yo u r  Ow n  H o r o s c o p e • 3 3 5



position) is usually dominant in the chart, and this seg-
ment of the chart is one of the strongest houses. Locomo-
tive people attack problems with drive and energy, and
have a great many resources. The dominant planet and
house usually give an indication of what area the person is
strong in.

In this chart the planets are closely grouped together in
very few signs. In addition, the signs must all be consecu-
tive. This is the rarest pattern of all seven types. Here, the
individual is a specialist—someone whose work or inter-
ests revolve around one concern or point of view. Bundle
types do best applying themselves to one subject and be-
coming expert at it.

In this chart all ten planets fall within six consecutive
signs, which gives the pattern the half-circle look of a
bowl. The Bowl type tends to be thoughtful and self-con-
tained; these people learn and profit from their experi-
ences in life. They have particularly forceful personalities if
the bowl is entirely in the top half or the bottom half of
the horoscope circle, or is entirely on the left-hand side (as
pictured) or the right-hand side of the horoscope circle.

This pattern is easy to spot because it looks something
like a train. The planets range over a large number of
signs, and all the signs are consecutive. The locomotive
(which is the planet that leads the others in a clockwise

3 3 6 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



In this chart eight or nine planets fill one-half of the This chart has a number of planets on one side of the
horoscope circle, and the remaining planet (or two planets horoscope circle in consecutive signs, and a number of
together) is in the opposite half of the circle. This tenth planets on the opposite side of the circle in consecutive
planet forms the handle of the Bucket, and is called the signs. In between the two populated sides of the circle are
Singleton. Bucket people tend to have a single-minded empty spaces. There must be at least two empty signs on
drive toward achieving a goal. They marshal their energies either side of the seesaw. Seesaw personalities are always
in one direction. Often the Singleton planet indicates the able to see two sides of a question. They take into consid-
goal or direction that the Bucket type pursues. eration opposing viewpoints and opinions, and weigh

these when making their decisions. As one astrologer put
it, they “see life through a contrasting set of windows.”


SAMPLE CHART

The birth chart of Oprah Winfrey (page 335) most closely resembles the Splay pattern. She is a highly individual person who even
as a child stood out from others; she has definitely directed herself toward her unusual interests, tastes and projects. Her chart also
bears a secondary resemblance to the Bucket pattern—but in her case the Singleton (the “handle”) is not one but three planets in
Aquarius. Thus her goal-oriented, single-minded drive is triply emphasized, and her direction is toward Aquarian pursuits of
knowledge, new ideas and humanitarian concerns.

Studying the patterns of different charts is both fun and informative. With a bit of practice you’ll soon be able to tell at a glance
what type is pictured is in a birth chart.

H ow  to  I n t e r p re t  Yo u r  Ow n  H o r o s c o p e • 3 3 7



8
In What Part of the Horoscope Are You Strong?

When lo oking at the pattern that the planets form in a birth chart, another thing to consider is where the plan-
ets appear in the horoscope circle. The various parts of the horoscope circle all have specific meanings.

To make this chart analysis, all you will need is your horoscope circle that has the large dots (representing the planets
in the chart). Study the layout of the dots in your horoscope, and note which parts of the circle contain the most dots.

To begin with, the horoscope circle is divided into halves. There are four halves in the circle—the left half, the right
half, the top half, and the bottom half.

half of the horoscope is that they are molded by circum-
stances. These people are influenced by their surroundings
and by the people in their lives; each experience becomes a
part of their personality.

The left half of the circle, called the eastern hemi-
sphere,* represents a person’s impact on the world. The
keyword for people who have many planets on this side of
the horoscope is that they mold circumstances. These peo-
ple are able to stamp their environment with the imprint
of their own personalities.

The top half of the circle, called the southern hemi-
sphere, emphasizes social and public life. The keyword for
this half of the horoscope is outer aim. People with many
planets in this top half of the horoscope tend to be ori-
ented toward career or professional life. They are usually
involved with the community or the world at large; the

The right half of the circle, called the western hemi- approval of the public gives them satisfaction.
sphere, represents the impact of the world on a person.
The keyword for people who have many planets in this

*You will notice that in a horoscope east, west, north, and south are exactly opposite to a geographical map. The reason is that as a horoscoper you
are looking upward at the heavens whereas a mapmaker is looking downward to the earth

3 3 8 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



half of the horoscope is inner aim. People with a majority
of planets in this hemisphere are primarily interested in
personal pursuits and pleasures, inner goals and satisfac-
tions. This does not mean they don’t achieve in life; it
means their primary motivation for achievement is to sat-

The bottom half of the circle, called the northern hemi- isfy themselves.
sphere, emphasizes self and family. The keyword for this


SAMPLE CHART

In Oprah Winfrey’s birth chart, the left hemisphere has a marked preponderance of planets, seven, while the
right hemisphere has only three—a clear indication that she molds circumstances to her liking. When
confronted by obstacles, she takes immediate action to change the situation rather than allow her
environment to shape her. She also has the force to seize opportunity and mold it into what she wants
to make happen.

Oprah’s chart has six planets in the top hemisphere (outer aim), and four planets in the bottom
hemisphere (inner aim). She is oriented toward public life, professional success, and making her mark in
a larger world and gaining public approval. However, she does have four planets in the bottom hemisphere,
not an insignificant number, which shows introspection and great satisfaction in achieving her inner goals.

H ow  to  I n t e r p re t  Yo u r  Ow n  H o r o s c o p e • 3 3 9



There is  another way in which the horoscope is
divided. It is divided into quarters.

The third quarter of the horoscope consists of Houses
Seven, Eight, and Nine. People who have many planets in

The first quarter of the horoscope consists of Houses this quarter are outer-directed and ambitious, but need the

One, Two, and Three. People having many planets in this cooperation of others to achieve their goals. They are

quarter are highly individual and have strong personali- adaptable to a wide variety of situations and people. In

ties. They are primarily self-assertive and self-motivated. their early lives, they usually develop an instinct for coop-

In their early lives they usually develop the character that eration and diplomacy; their relationships are likely to

will make a mark on the world later in their lives. bring them success in their careers.

The second quarter of the horoscope consists of The fourth quarter of the horoscope consists of Houses

Houses Four, Five, and Six. Those who have many planets Ten, Eleven, and Twelve. People with many planets in this

in this quarter are relationship-oriented. They need com- quarter are the most independent and ambitious of all.

panionship in their lives to feel satisfaction and harmony. They make their own way in life, and gain through their

In their early lives they usually develop an instinct for own efforts rather than those of other people. In early life

dealing successfully with other people; their associations they usually learn to depend on themselves; their self-

are likely to bring them contentment later in their lives. sufficiency is likely to bring them success later in life.


SAMPLE CHART

Oprah Winfrey has four planets in the fourth quarter of her horoscope, and three planets in first quarter. A
strong fourth quarter shows independence and great ambition; she is self-directed and from an early age de-
pended on her own hard work and determination. Oprah’s first quarter contains three planets (in close conjunc-
tion), underlining again the theme of a strong and highly individual person who is motivated and self-assertive.

3 4 0 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



What Is the Ruling Planet of Your Chart?

Every chart has a ruling planet, which is easy to discover. Now carefully note in what sign and in what house
Simply look at the sign that represents your First House. your ruling planet appears in your chart. Its position has
The planet that naturally rules this sign in the zodiac is great influence in your life and to a large extent colors
the ruling planet of your chart. For example, if Virgo is your personality.
your First House, the ruling planet of your chart is Mer- Be sure to find your ruling planet and check its posi-
cury. If Sagittarius is your First House, the ruling planet of tion in your chart. This is an important clue when inter-
your chart is Jupiter. preting a horoscope.


SAMPLE CHART

Oprah Winfrey’s First House is Sagittarius, and therefore the ruling planet of her chart is Jupiter. This planet of expansion and freedom is
evident in her independent persona and need to express herself. She loves to explore and wants to “fly” (her wish when she was eight).
Jupiter is the planet of luck; Oprah has always benefited from being in the right place at the right time and others giving her a chance to
perform—the happy “accident” of others recognizing her talent and offering her opportunity to use it. Oprah’s Jupiter is in Gemini, sign
of communicating and dealing with people, and in the Sixth House of utilizing one’s skills, focusing on getting the job done, and serving
the world—exactly the trajectory of her career. The Sixth House also speaks of digestion and utilization of food, and Jupiter here points to
issues around weight gain.

Special Note: Now and again, a birth chart will have Houses that contain “intercepted” signs. This means an entire sign is totally con-
tained within the doorways of one House (a phenomenon based on the longitude and latitude of the birthplace). Oprah’s First House
contains an intercepted sign. The First House begins with 29 degrees Sagittarius, then Capricorn is completely contained within the
House, and the House ends with Aquarius. Because houses that lie opposite each other mirror each other, Oprah’s Seventh House also
contains an intercepted sign, Cancer (the opposite sign to Capricorn). Houses with an intercepted sign speak of complexity; these signs
are said to have “difficulty getting out.” The native of the chart must work extra hard to express these signs. Capricorn in Oprah’s First
House shows a drive to control, to ascend to authority, and certainly executive ability. Capricorn’s ruler is Saturn, planet of discipline and
hard work—and in certain respects, Saturn is the subruler of Oprah’s chart. Certainly her capacity for hard work, her driving passion, and
the obstacles she has had to overcome (personally and professionally) demonstrate the force of Saturn in her First House. In her Seventh
House, Oprah’s intercepted Cancer shows that her nurturing instinct has revealed itself more in her work than in marriage or mother-
hood. Having Uranus (planet of uniqueness) here in Cancer also points to Oprah’s “unusualness” in this respect.

What Is the Ruler of Your Sun?

In a chart, the planet that rules the Sun sign has great sig- study the position of Venus (the ruler of Libra) to see how
nificance. This planet (called the dispositor of the Sun) it influences you.
strengthens the power of the Sun in your chart. It is useful to study the planet that rules your Sun and

If, for example, your Sun sign were Libra, you would to see its influence in your chart.

H ow  to  I n t e r p re t  Yo u r  Ow n  H o r o s c o p e • 3 4 1




SAMPLE CHART

In Oprah Winfrey’s chart, the Sun sign is Aquarius and therefore the dispositor (ruler) of the Sun is Uranus. Oprah’s Uranus is in
her Seventh House (of Partnerships & Marriage or marriage-like relationships). Uranus is the fascinating planet of being different,
not bound to rules, of having a free spirit and special genius. It speaks of out-of-the-blue events and a disruptive, sudden breaking
apart. Oprah’s teenage pregnancy that ended in the death of her baby was a breaking apart of motherhood (a Cancerian instinct).
Oprah’s love relationships have not ended in marriage; an early affair with a married man caused her enough grief to contemplate
suicide. Oprah’s 20-year “marriage-like” relationship to Stedman Graham has still not resulted in a legal marriage. Oprah’s Uranus
points instead to her love of education, her special talent for connecting to people from all walks of life, and her caring humani-
tarian efforts poured into the world. Her latest TV show, Oprah’s Big Give, has contestants giving out bundles of money to
strangers in need.

8
What Is the Ruler of Your Moon?

Just as you looked at the ruler of your Sun sign in your sonality. The position of the ruler of the Moon in your
chart, you should study the planet that is the ruler of your chart underlines the kind of emotional impact you have on 
Moon sign. If, for example, your Moon were in Aries, the others.
planet Mars (which rules Aries) would be important in Be sure to look at the ruler of your Moon sign. You will
your chart. find it interesting to figure out how this planet motivates

The Moon, as you remember, gives an indication of you.
your emotional life, of the hidden currents in your per-


SAMPLE CHART

In Oprah Winfrey’s birth chart, the Moon sign is Sagittarius, and therefore the ruler of the Moon is Jupiter. Jupiter is also the ruler
of Oprah’s chart (see page 341), which doubly underlines Jupiter’s expansive power. The Moon denotes the emotional impact one
has on others, and Oprah’s TV talk shows and acting work are filled with emotion. She connects to people and sheds tears on-air
with them as they tell their life stories. Her magazine accents believing in one’s gut instincts, trusting one’s own feelings of what is
right. Larger-than-life Jupiter is reflected in the incredible numbers of people around the world who hear her inspirational
messages, watch her shows, and are recipients of her charitable work.

3 4 2 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



The Four Power Points in Your Chart

The first things an astrologer examines in a chart are the
four Angles of a horoscope. These four Angles are the
most important points in a chart; they indicate power,
strength, and activity. In astrology, they are sometimes
called wide-open doors, because planets here can act freely
and unimpeded.

The four Angles (Power Points) of a horoscope are:

4. the Midheaven (also called the Medium Coeli, the
Latin word for “middle of the heavens”; often written on
charts as M.C.).

1. the Ascendant.

The line in a horoscope connecting the Ascendant and
Descendant is called the Horizon.

2. the Descendant.

3. the Nadir (also called the Imum Coeli, the Latin The line in a horoscope connecting the Nadir and the

word for “lowest part of the heavens”; often written on Midheaven is called the Meridian.

charts as I.C.).

H ow  to  I n t e r p re t  Yo u r  Ow n  H o r o s c o p e • 3 4 3



In a chart, the line of the Ascendant marks the cusp The line of the Midheaven marks the cusp of the Tenth
of the First House. House.

Planets are extremely forceful in your chart if they
are on or near the cusps of the First, Fourth, Seventh,

or Tenth Houses (called Angular Houses). Indeed, any
planets in these four houses are prominent and powerful.

Planets at the Ascendant or in the First House represent
strength of character and personality—the power of a per-
son’s self.

On the opposite side of the horoscope, planets at the

The line of the Nadir marks the cusp of the Fourth Descendant or in the Seventh House represent strength

House. through relationships, partnerships, and marriage—the
channeling of power in tandem with another person.

Planets at the Nadir or in the Fourth House represent
strength through a person’s beginnings—what he or she inher-
its from previous generations. The Fourth House is a mystical
House, and therefore planets here indicate the subconscious
motivation behind a person’s actions. Planets in this House
also give an indication of what the latter part of life will be like.

The opposite side of the Nadir is the Midheaven. Plan-
ets at the Midheaven or in the Tenth House represent

The line of the Descendant marks the cusp of the strength in the public or outer world—the world of ambi-
Seventh House. tion and status. Planets in the Tenth House indicate the

conscious motivation behind a person’s actions.
Check the four power points in your chart to find out what

are the most active and prominent planets in your horoscope.

3 4 4 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y




SAMPLE CHART

In Oprah Winfrey’s chart, her Midheaven (the Fourth Angle Tenth House) is occupied by two planets,
Neptune and Saturn. Also, her Descendant (the Third Angle Seventh House) contains a planet.

At her Midheaven Oprah’s first planet is Neptune, which represents imagination, deep creativity, going
for the dream, a desire to put ideals into action, and exerting a fascination on others. The Tenth House is the
House of Career, and the force of her Neptune in Libra (sign of affectionate relationships and equality) points to
her ability to fascinate the public and build a strong career based on her utopian principles.

The second planet at her Midheaven is Saturn, representing drive, discipline, concerted effort and ability to push through
obstacles. Saturn is in Scorpio, sign of resilience, relentlessness, and profound power to control. These qualities of Saturn and of
Scorpio also define aspects of Oprah’s career life.

The other Power Point occupied by a planet is the Descendant—with Uranus in Oprah’s Seventh House
of relationships and partnerships. Uranus, planet of genius and unusualness, shows a marked propensity
for long-standing relationships of loyalty that serve her well, personally and in her work. Uranus in the
Seventh also underlines being drawn to powerful and unusual people who open opportunity and to forming
a dynamic relationship with the public.

3

8
Have You Any Planets in Their Dominion?

Each planet in astrology has a sign that it naturally rules— The reason for these two questions is that a planet in its
for example, Mars rules the sign of Aries. If, in your chart, own sign has the strength to advance the affairs of the
a planet is in its home sign (in its dominion), its power is specific house it is in.
strong and it is able to express its qualities most purely. For example, suppose that in your chart Jupiter (planet
For example, Mars is very active, assertive, and energetic of luck) were in Sagittarius (the sign that Jupiter rules and
when it is in its home sign of Aries. the sign of higher learning) and in your Second House (the

If you have a planet (or more) in its dominion in your House of Wealth). You would be likely to earn a very com-
chart, study that planet’s power and also take into account fortable living and have an easy time financially doing work
the House that it occupies. Ask yourself, What kind of that involved your higher intellectual faculties, such as in
power does this planet possess and what house is it in? the professions of law, publishing, teaching, or writing.

H ow  to  I n t e r p re t  Yo u r  Ow n  H o r o s c o p e • 3 4 5




SAMPLE CHART

In Oprah Winfrey’s chart, no planets are in their dominion.

3

8
Have You Any Planets in Mutual Reception?

Two planets are in mutual reception when each one occu- This is a very positive position for two planets to be in,
pies the sign that the other one rules. You might think of for each one strengthens the power of the other. They will
it as two planets visiting each other’s home. For example, work in cooperation with each other, each one emphasiz-
if in your chart Venus is in Sagittarius (ruled by Jupiter) ing the effect of the other planet.
and Jupiter is in Libra (ruled by Venus), Venus and Jupiter Analyze your chart to see if there are any planets in
are in mutual reception. mutual reception. They augur strength and luck in a chart.


SAMPLE CHART

In Oprah Winfrey’s chart, no planets are in mutual reception.

3

3 4 6 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



8
Where are the Head and Tail of Your Dragon?

Your birth chart contains two Lunar Nodes (the North Node  and South Node ). These are not planets but a
pair of points that speak of positive qualities you need to develop and negative qualities to release. In classical astrol-

ogy, the North Node was called the Dragon’s Head and the South Node the Dragon’s Tail, symbolizing a celestial Dragon. A
person entered life “head first” carrying positive qualities to work with, and trailing a “tail” of negative qualities to dispense
with. In your computer chart, only the North Node appears (shown as ); it denotes qualities to expand, gifts to use, your
life purpose, and tasks to be mastered. Your South Node, located in the House opposite to your North Node, shows nega-
tive behavior to release and destructive patterns to let go of.

The following list delineates what the placement of your Nodes mean:

North Node in First House South Node in Seventh House
Courageous, plucky, having true grit and initiative, popular, sponta- Indecisive, calculating, lacks backbone, tries too hard to please, su-
neous, full of energy, vivacious, charismatic. perficial in relationships, sees partner as rival.

North Node in Second House South Node in Eighth House
Decisive, persevering, practical, stable, responsible, offers security to Manipulative, over-controlling, scheming, subject to extremes of
others, a talent for financial gain. emotion, chasing after the forbidden, sexual misbehavior.

North Node in Third House South Node in Ninth House
Curious, imaginative, communicative, intelligent, quickwitted, cheer- Conceited thinker, moral superiority, arrogance, insincerity, cannot
ful, skilled in handling people, good verbal expression. admit weakness.

North Node in Fourth House South Node in Tenth House
Emotionally strong, loyal, nurturing, family oriented and home-lov- Stingy, withdrawn, gruff, a grumbler, egotistical, pushy, power-hun-
ing, deep understanding of others’ feelings. gry, greedy for success, ruthless.

North Node in Fifth House South Node in Eleventh House
Creative, good-natured, confident, passionate, self-expressive, socially Feelings of inferiority, over-dependent on being liked, eccentric, too
skillful, leadership ability. high expectations of friendship, feels misunderstood, isolates self

from group.

North Node in Sixth House South Node in Twelfth House
Diligent, able to work with others, high standards, seeks to be service, Rebellious, takes flight from reality, addictive personality, clandestine
good with detail, sensible about health. relationships, self-destructive behavior.

North Node in Seventh House South Node in First House
Cooperative, sociable, creative, charming, fosters harmonious rela- Selfish, impatient, narcissistic, can hurt others through thoughtless-
tionships, willing to commit, good at partnership. ness, exaggerated need for freedom.

H ow  to  I n t e r p re t  Yo u r  Ow n  H o r o s c o p e • 3 4 7



North Node in Eighth House South Node in Second House
Profound in thinking, analytical, wise advisor, can keep secrets, Stubborn, greedy, a glutton, concentration on materialism, a show-
strong powers of healing, fearless, dedicated. off, shady tricks in moneymaking.

North Node in Ninth House South Node in Third House
Courageous, idealistic, can achieve long-range goals, strives toward Contradictory, intellectual snob, sarcastic know-it-all, superficial,
higher education, faithful to commitments, love of travel. fickle.

North Node in Tenth House South Node in Fourth House
Diligent, dependable, honorable, an achiever, sense of responsibility, Moody, childish behavior, over-dependent, narrow-minded, fears
assumes authority, strives for the top. change, a petty tyrant.

North Node in Eleventh House South Node in Fifth House
Accepting, open, altruistic, able to form deep friendships, trustwor- Needs constant attention, overbearing, exaggerator, a boaster and
thy, a reforming spirit, group leader. self-aggrandizer, indolent pleasure-seeker.

North Node in Twelfth House South Node in Sixth House
Devoted, nurturing, spiritual, sensitive to others, able to love deeply, Fussy, finds fault, nerve-racking perfectionist, fear of rejection, argu-
champion of the underprivileged, love of humanity. mentative.


SAMPLE CHART

In Oprah Winfrey’s chart, the North Node (Dragon’s Head) is in her First House, which indicates she came into this life with a
strong personality—endowed with the gifts of courage, pluck and charisma. Her task was to express her power of self and not be
afraid of her ambitious nature. With her South Node (Dragon’s Tail) in the Seventh House, she needed to stop trying so hard to
please, to be trustworthy in her relationships, keep from being competitive in her partnerships, and learn to make definite
decisions.

3
If you have gone through these exercises, you have now a number of excellent books on chart-casting and analysis,

amassed a great deal of information about your chart. At and I list some of these on page 520 in my Recommended
this point, some of you may want to delve more deeply Reading List.
into chart analysis. For those who are interested, there are

3 4 8 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



8
1 0

A S P E C T S  A N D  S Y N A S T R Y
Probing Deeper into Your Birth Chart

The Aspects in a Chart
hart analysis  is  the cornerstone of modern astrology. Twentieth-first-century practitioners

Cof this oldest science are putting less emphasis on divination and prediction than on exploring the hu-
man psyche. Through the study of astrology they hope to reveal the many facets of the human person-

ality.
As you begin to learn more about chart interpretation you will become familiar with another very impor-

tant branch of astrology. This is called aspects.
Astrologers consider the study of aspects an integral part of horoscope delineation. Modern astrologers are

doing more research on aspects than ever before, and some call this the astrology of the future. Aspects are not a
new study, but they lend themselves to deeper and more complex refinements the more they are studied.

In order for you to calculate the aspects, you will need to know not only in what signs your planets are, but
in what degree of those signs your planets are. For example, in my own birth chart, Jupiter is in Taurus in the
First House. But Jupiter is precisely in 14° of Taurus in the First House.

If you want to do the research, you can find the exact degree of all your planets by consulting an ephemeris
(an almanac listing the planetary positions for each day of the year) or consulting a detailed Table of Planets for
your year of birth. These publications are available in bookstores specializing in astrological publications, and I
list some good sources in the appendix.

However, it is far easier to utilize the computer. These days, astrologers, teachers, students, and the general

3 4 9



public rely on computers to construct horoscopes. Any astrological computer program will give you the exact
degree of all your planets in your birth chart—and will calculate every aspect between those planets. In addi-
tion to making every calculation for you, computers avoid the human error that tends to creep into mathemat-
ical computations.

Computer service is relatively inexpensive and most services take only a day or two to construct your chart.
If you yourself have access to the Internet, you can easily find astrological sites that will cast a chart for you free.
You can also purchase an astrological computer program for your computer that allows you to cast far more
complex charts than a simple birth-chart and provide you with in-depth horoscope analyses. Some reliable 
astrological sources that provide computer charts and sell computer programs are listed in the appendix on
page 522.

Simplest of all is to utilize the CD-ROM packaged with this book. With this CD you can instantly cast a de-
tailed birth chart, and the program also gives you the page numbers of this book on which to find descriptive
information about every planet placement and aspect in your chart.

8
What Is an Aspect?

An aspect is  simply the relationship between two Aspects are categorized as major (most powerful) and
planets and is based entirely on how many degrees minor (less powerful). The major aspects were classified

apart they are in a chart. Remember that the horoscope by Claudius Ptolemy in the second century A.D. In modern

circle contains 360 degrees. The planets within that circle astrology they are still considered the most powerful as-

form different relationships depending on how many de- pects in a birth chart.

grees apart they are from each other. The major aspects and their influences are:

3 5 0 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



NAME OF ASPECT DEGREES APART SYMBOL MEANING

CONJUNCTION 0°  Powerful. A conjunction is the 
Two planets in the strongest aspect in astrology. It 
same degree in the is usually a beneficial influence, though 
same sign (or within not necessarily so. If the planets have 
10° of each other). other difficult aspects in the chart, a 

conjunction may intensify them. A 
conjunction means the two planets 
involved have a powerful influence and 
are a focal point in the chart.

TRINE 120°  Most harmonious. A trine is the most
Two planets 120° favorable aspect, bringing advantage 
apart (or within 9° and ease. The only problem is that 
either way of 120°). too many trines in a chart may make 

a person weak and lazy.

OPPOSITION 180°  Unharmonious. An opposition brings
Two planets 180° strain, discordance, or separation.
apart (or within 9° Modern astrologers look at 
either way of 180°). oppositions less negatively than they 

were regarded in ancient times.
Oppositions in a chart are thought of
as challenges to growth and achievement.

SEXTILE 60°  Harmonious and favorable. A sextile
Two planets 60° apart brings opportunity. Unlike trines,
(or within 6° either sextiles require effort on the part of
way of 60°). the native to work their beneficial 

influence.

SQUARE 90°  Challenging and stressful. A square 
Two planets 90° apart places obstacles and teaches lessons.
(or within 9° either This aspect usually indicates an area 
way of 90°). where the person can develop drive 

and strength of character by overcoming 
difficulties.

A s p e c ts  a n d  Sy na s t ry • 3 5 1



Minor (less powerful) aspects were first introduced astrology, and by Jean-Baptiste Morin, a French mathe-
early in the seventeenth century by Johannes Kepler, the matician and astrologer. The minor aspects and their in-
renowned astronomer who is called the father of modern fluences are:

NAME OF ASPECT DEGREES APART SYMBOL MEANING

QUINCUNX 150°  Originally classified as mildly 
Two planets 150° adverse, the modern tendency is to 
apart (or within 2° consider its influence unpredictable 
either way of and also more powerful than first 
150°). thought. Some astrologers connect a 

quincunx with health problems;
others say it brings “offbeat 
wisdom.”

SEMISQUARE 45° Mildly adverse. Brings tension that
Two planets 45° apart precipitates events but is much less
(or within 2° either powerful than a square.
way of 45°).

SESQUISQUARE 135° ! Mildly adverse. Similar influence to 
(sometimes called a Two planets 135° a semisquare.
SESQUIQUADRATE) apart (or within 2°

either way of 135°)

SEMISEXTILE 30° " Mildly favorable. Brings opportunity 
Two planets 30° but is much less powerful than a 
apart (or within 2° sextile.
either way of 30°).

3 5 2 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



8
The Meaning of the Aspects

When interpreting a birth chart an as- people would be likely to help you. If instead the Sun in
trologer will calculate which planets form an aspect your chart were at 10° Taurus and Jupiter were at 10° Scor-

to other planets. In Ptolemy’s time an aspect was thought pio, you would have an opposition in your chart. The Sun
of as one planet “looking at” another planet; an archaic in opposition to Jupiter indicates carelessness and extrava-
meaning of the word aspect is to look at or glance. This is gance. You would be likely to have financial problems and
still a useful way of regarding aspects. For example, if there need to borrow money. You might make frequent errors of
is a Sun-Jupiter aspect in your chart, you might ask your- judgment or be susceptible to bad advice. You might be a
self, “Does the Sun look at Jupiter in a friendly way (a gambler but luck would not be on your side.
good aspect) or an unfriendly way (an adverse aspect)?” Again, you must keep in mind that the aspects in a chart

To look further at this example: If the Sun in your chart are a contributing influence in your horoscope. The combina-
were at 15° Gemini and Jupiter were at 15° Aquarius, you tion of all influences—Sun sign, Moon sign, Rising sign, Plan-
would have a trine in your chart. The Sun trine Jupiter is a ets, Houses, Aspects, as well as many others—make up the
very good aspect, so harmonious in fact that it helps to unique, distinct, unduplicatable, one-and-only you.
outweigh other adverse aspects in your chart. Its influence Here is a brief rundown of the meanings of the various
tends to make you well liked, popular, broad-minded, and aspects each planet might form with other planets:
generous. You would make money easily and influential

A s p e c ts  a n d  Sy na s t ry • 3 5 3



8
Sun Aspects

SUN and MOON SUN and SATURN
GOOD ASPECTS Well-integrated personality; adaptable to others. GOOD ASPECTS Ability to persevere. Good concentration; well

Tends to have harmonious home life; gets promotions in job. organized. Succeeds through own efforts.
ADVERSE ASPECTS Inner conflicts about self, insecurity. Ac- ADVERSE ASPECTS Indicates disappointment and obstacles.

tions are contradictory. Emotionally oversensitive. Subject must overcome hindrances and feelings of inade-
CONJUNCTION Stubborn and self-willed. Sometimes an un- quacy.

balanced or one-sided personality; deep-rooted habits. CONJUNCTION Gives seriousness and sense of purpose. This
aspect is often found in the charts of self-made men and

SUN and MERCURY women.
The Sun and Mercury are always within 28° of each other and

thus if they form an aspect in your chart, it would only be a SUN and URANUS
conjunction. GOOD ASPECTS Leadership ability; strong initiative. A touch

CONJUNCTION If 5° or less separate the Sun and Mercury, na- of inspiration and genius in thinking.
tive is apt to be rigid and dogmatic in opinion. ADVERSE ASPECTS Rash; erratic. Nervous strain. Possible sep-

aration in marriage.
SUN and VENUS CONJUNCTION Originality and independence. Inclined to be
Because the Sun and Venus are never more than 48° apart, the obstinate. Possible superiority complex.

only aspect considered important between these two planets
is a conjunction. SUN and NEPTUNE

CONJUNCTION A very harmonious aspect bringing warm- GOOD ASPECTS Good imagination; artistic potential. Creative
heartedness, sociability, and charm. self-expression.

ADVERSE ASPECTS Vagueness of mind; unbalanced emotions.
SUN and MARS Susceptible to treachery and deceit.
GOOD ASPECTS Creative. Assertive. Enterprising. Indicates a CONJUNCTION Powerful artistic expression. Fine esthetic

high energy level. taste. Psychic ability.
ADVERSE ASPECTS Tendency to be quarrelsome, combative,

headstrong. Lacks staying power; is hasty and takes risks. SUN and PLUTO
CONJUNCTION Hard worker. Adventurous. Restless. Enthusi- GOOD ASPECTS Strong character. Ability to start afresh with

astic. new ideas. Self-confident.
ADVERSE ASPECTS Inclined toward selfishness, aloofness, and

SUN and JUPITER antisocial behavior.
GOOD ASPECTS Optimism, generosity. Enjoys popularity. At- CONJUNCTION Egotistical. Person may have a power complex.

tracts luck. A dictatorial way with others.
ADVERSE ASPECTS Extravagant and spendthrift tendencies.

Person may be conceited, overbearing, indolent.
CONJUNCTION A cultured mind. A sense of humor.

3 5 4 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y




Moon Aspects

MOON and MERCURY MOON and SATURN
GOOD ASPECTS Indicates common sense and shrewdness. A GOOD ASPECTS Diplomatic. Ambitious. Conservative nature;

witty talker; an entertaining personality. patient. Thoroughness in dealing with problems.
ADVERSE ASPECTS High-strung, frenetic nature. Native in- ADVERSE ASPECTS Shyness; lack of self-confidence. Money

clined to be anxious and nervous. problems. Possible trouble in first marriage.
CONJUNCTION High intelligence, sensitivity, and imagination. CONJUNCTION Thrifty. A perfectionist, though may be too

critical. This aspect brings stability to emotions.
MOON and VENUS
GOOD ASPECTS Affectionate, lighthearted personality. Love of MOON and URANUS

beauty; artistic talent. GOOD ASPECTS Strong intuition. Open to change and the fu-
ADVERSE ASPECTS Careless, self-indulgent. Moody. Disap- ture. Native attracts luck through change.

pointment in love affairs. ADVERSE ASPECTS Too changeable; temperamental. Nervous
CONJUNCTION Friendliness; a tranquil nature. Love of luxury. tension. Perversity.

An artistic eye. CONJUNCTION An original, highly individual personality. Na-
tive may be considered eccentric, unusual—will not conform

MOON and MARS or be restricted.
GOOD ASPECTS Energetic; resourceful. Quick-acting; gets proj-

ects under way without delay. Good health. MOON and NEPTUNE
ADVERSE ASPECTS Changeable moods; touchy; argumenta- GOOD ASPECTS Powerful imagination. Interested in the occult.

tive. Self-indulgent. Problems with health. Native has strong need to create in an artistic way.
CONJUNCTION Courage. Liveliness. Strong powers of concen- ADVERSE ASPECTS A dreamer. Danger of self-delusion. Sus-

tration. ceptible to schemers. Problems in love affairs.
CONJUNCTION Sympathetic. Warmhearted. A preference for

MOON and JUPITER seclusion.
GOOD ASPECTS Optimistic, friendly personality. Good business

ability. Native enjoys travel and literary pursuits. MOON and PLUTO
ADVERSE ASPECTS Weak financial judgment. Laziness. Diffi- GOOD ASPECTS Changes in native’s life are common. Strong

culty accomplishing goals. emotions. Shrewd business ability.
CONJUNCTION Generous and protective nature. Native needs ADVERSE ASPECTS Moods and emotions swing to extremes.

change and new challenge. May be vain. Jealousy prominent. Aspect may bring unpleasant changes.
CONJUNCTION Impulsiveness. Tendency for changes to erupt

suddenly, and for native to make thoughtless moves.

A s p e c ts  a n d  Sy na s t ry • 3 5 5




Mercury Aspects

MERCURY and VENUS MERCURY and URANUS
GOOD ASPECTS Cheerful, lighthearted. Artistic. Native leans GOOD ASPECTS Cleverness, originality. Independent mind.

toward literary and creative pursuits. Self-reliant nature.
ADVERSE ASPECTS These two planets never form major ad- ADVERSE ASPECTS Opinionated, brusque, and tactless. Ten-

verse aspects. At most, they indicate that artistic faculties are dency to waste energy. Native may be discontent, confused.
not expressed. CONJUNCTION A talent for scientific thinking. Can be stub-

CONJUNCTION Charm of speech. Balance between mental ac- born and eccentric, but also a genius.
tivities and love of art and beauty.

MERCURY and NEPTUNE
MERCURY and MARS GOOD ASPECTS High creativity. Artistic imagination. Indicates
GOOD ASPECTS Active, practical mind. Courageous personal- talent for acting. May be clairvoyant.

ity. Literary ability. Forceful debater. ADVERSE ASPECTS Scheming tendencies; native disposed to-
ADVERSE ASPECTS Fault-finding and irritability accentuated. ward deceiving others. Hazy thinking; difficulty in concen-

Native may be belligerent and disputatious. trating.
CONJUNCTION Potential for high intellectualism. A flair for CONJUNCTION Impulsive personality but also powerfully cre-

writing, speaking. Witty and expressive. ative. Native interested in mysticism and spiritual subjects.

MERCURY and JUPITER MERCURY and PLUTO
GOOD ASPECTS An active mind with broad outlook. Good GOOD ASPECTS Native is versatile, flexible, restless. Prone to

judgment. Sense of humor. Native does not like detail. sudden changes of opinion.
ADVERSE ASPECTS Skeptical mind. Susceptible to errors in ADVERSE ASPECTS Illogical reasoning. Nervous tension. Na-

judgment. Native may be indiscreet, open to scandal. tive tends to rush into commitments before considering ac-
CONJUNCTION Above-average intelligence. Optimistic. Phil- tions.

anthropic bent. CONJUNCTION A penetrating mind but susceptible to nerv-
ous tension. Native often has a marked talent to bring about

MERCURY and SATURN change through the use of the written word.
GOOD ASPECTS Disciplined, well-organized mind. Good con-

centration. Serious and practical.
ADVERSE ASPECTS Native may be rigid, a strict disciplinarian,

fearful of change. Abrupt. Blunt.
CONJUNCTION Native is methodical and patient; may also be

obstinate. Good powers of endurance. Prone to depression.

3 5 6 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y




Venus Aspects

VENUS and MARS VENUS and URANUS
GOOD ASPECTS Feelings of warmth and affection easily ex- GOOD ASPECTS Romantic, artistic personality. Intrigues others

pressed. Enthusiastic. Passionate. Romantic. because of unusual ideas about sex and love. Can be very sen-
ADVERSE ASPECTS Impulsive, quarrelsome. Difficulty and timental.

strain in sexual relationships. Hypersensitivity. Discontent- ADVERSE ASPECTS Too much unconventionality in relation-
ment. ships; imbalanced sensuality. Choice of lovers and partners

CONJUNCTION A sensuous personality. Optimistic outlook. may bring unhappiness.
Good balance between charm and aggressiveness. CONJUNCTION Apt to be emotional, excitable. Native may do

original, artistic work. A sensual personality.
VENUS and JUPITER
GOOD ASPECTS Indicates harmonious relationships. Love is VENUS and NEPTUNE

easily expressed. This aspect also brings good money luck. GOOD ASPECTS Heightened creativity. Interest in mysticism.
ADVERSE ASPECTS Too much affectation and insincerity. Nu- Powerful artistic potential but native needs firm direction.

merous love affairs and unhappiness brought on by extremes ADVERSE ASPECTS Disappointment in love. Sometimes vic-
of feeling. Possible weight problem. timized in relationships. Difficulty making decisions.

CONJUNCTION Magnetic sex appeal. Native enjoys much pop- CONJUNCTION Sensitive and kind to others. Artistic talent
ularity and a reputation for charm. present. Also prone to nervous tension, disillusion in love af-

fairs.
VENUS and SATURN
GOOD ASPECTS Constructive influence in business partner- VENUS and PLUTO

ships. Serious and faithful in love. GOOD ASPECTS Passionate nature. Love life marked by sudden
ADVERSE ASPECTS Disappointment or incompatibility in changes that tend to bring benefits. Good financial ability.

marriage and love relationships. Tendency toward a solitary, ADVERSE ASPECTS Reversals in love; attachments broken.
lonely existence. Marriage may be delayed early in life. Strong sexual feelings, but sex relationships cause difficulties.

CONJUNCTION Strong sense of duty. Conservative in picking CONJUNCTION Deep-rooted, intense passions. Native tends to
love partners. Feelings of affection sometimes sublimated or fall in love secretly. Indicates shrewdness in handling finances.
sacrificed for personal ambition.

A s p e c ts  a n d  Sy na s t ry • 3 5 7




Mars Aspects

MARS and JUPITER MARS and NEPTUNE
GOOD ASPECTS Strong willpower, optimism, positive outlook. GOOD ASPECTS Creative impulses. Idealistic and crusading.

Inspires confidence. Good leadership potential. Powerful emotions. Imaginative.
ADVERSE ASPECTS Over-enthusiasm, hastiness, impulsiveness. ADVERSE ASPECTS Prone toward negative escapism in alco-

Extremist temperament. Restless. Extravagant. hol. Native may be oversensitive; wastes energies in hopeless
CONJUNCTION Frank. Energetic. Able to make decisions. An causes.

aggressive streak. CONJUNCTION High artistic gifts may be present. Strong
sense of design and color. Romantic. Passionate.

MARS and SATURN
GOOD ASPECTS Powers of endurance. Ability to succeed in MARS and PLUTO

spite of harsh circumstances. Disciplined. Indomitable. GOOD ASPECTS Great physical energy. Self-confidence. Ambi-
ADVERSE ASPECTS Vacillating energy. Inner feeling of being tious. Courageous.

pulled to and fro. Ill-tempered. Susceptible to injury. ADVERSE ASPECTS Obsessive personality. Combative nature.
CONJUNCTION Rebellious, turbulent personality. May indi- Native unhappy when forced to accept new conditions.

cate accident-proneness. Native resents any opposition. CONJUNCTION High emotional level. Quick, violent temper.

MARS and URANUS
GOOD ASPECTS Practical. Intellectual. Energetic. Resourceful.

Ability to make quick decisions.
ADVERSE ASPECTS Impatient, perverse, touchy nature. Native

may be intolerant, combative. Subject to irritability and ten-
sion.

CONJUNCTION Excitable, willful personality. High energy
level. Also indicates nervous strain.

3 5 8 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y




Jupiter Aspects

JUPITER and SATURN JUPITER and NEPTUNE
GOOD ASPECTS Patience and persistence. Breadth of vision. GOOD ASPECTS Kind, humanitarian instincts. Drawn to spiri-

Sound financial judgment. tual concerns. Creative talent that promises financial success.
ADVERSE ASPECTS Pessimistic; lack of inner satisfaction. Ob- ADVERSE ASPECTS Too emotional and extravagant. Marked

stacles in the way of success. Financial miscalculation. tendency toward self-deception. Weak and easily manipu-
CONJUNCTION Ambitious and single-minded. Ability to lated.

achieve through hard work. Streak of discontentment. CONJUNCTION Sensitive, artistic personality. Active fantasy
life. May possess ESP. Love and concern for animals.

JUPITER and URANUS
GOOD ASPECTS Originality combined with leadership ability. JUPITER and PLUTO

Magnetic personality. Humanitarian outlook. GOOD ASPECTS Intellectual and organizational skill. Strong
ADVERSE ASPECTS Outspokenness. Willful. Tendency toward tendency for native to create new beginnings. Idealistic.

radicalism or militancy. ADVERSE ASPECTS Scheming personality; desire to exploit
CONJUNCTION Freedom-loving, restless, eccentric. Sometimes others. Often destructive tendencies.

an unusual physical appearance, for example, extremely tall or CONJUNCTION Ability to break with the past and start anew.
short. Tendency to be domineering.

A s p e c ts  a n d  Sy na s t ry • 3 5 9




Saturn Aspects

SATURN and URANUS SATURN and PLUTO
GOOD ASPECTS Willpower and initiative; indicates adminis- GOOD ASPECTS Self-disciplined. Capable of deep concentra-

trative talents. Inventive, efficient, resourceful. tion. A self-confident, high-principled personality.
ADVERSE ASPECTS Autocratic, arrogant personality. Prone to ADVERSE ASPECTS Unpredictability. An obsessive personality.

anxiety and depression. Sometimes susceptible to unusual diseases.
CONJUNCTION Great self-reliance and determination. Indi- CONJUNCTION Inclined to be unpredictable. Native is able to

cates a masterful manner with others, an original personality. deal well with disappointment. This conjunction occurs once
every 92 years and is considered a generational influence.

SATURN and NEPTUNE
GOOD ASPECTS Careful, conscientious nature. Orderly com-

mon sense. Creative imagination put to practical use.
ADVERSE ASPECTS Reclusive inclinations. Suspicious, possibly

paranoid nature. Life is marked by disappointment.
CONJUNCTION Hardworking and authoritative. An excellent

aspect that combines idealism with practicality.


Uranus Aspects

URANUS and NEPTUNE URANUS and PLUTO
GOOD ASPECTS Kindness, sensitivity, intuition. Musical abil- GOOD ASPECTS Lofty aims; strong loyalty. Ability to direct en-

ity. Spiritual and mystical interests. ergy into productive channels.
ADVERSE ASPECTS High emotional level. A personality that ADVERSE ASPECTS Disruptive influence. Indicates inner ten-

becomes easily upset. Easily led onto unproductive paths. sion. Tendency toward sudden emotional outbursts.
CONJUNCTION Potential for highly original work. Bias toward CONJUNCTION Strong sense of independence. This conjunc-

eccentricity. A visionary and prophetic nature. This conjunc- tion occurs every 115 years and is considered a generational
tion occurs every 171 years and is considered a generational influence. Power can be positive or negative, depending on
influence. how it is channeled.

3 6 0 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



 	
Neptune and Pluto Aspects

NEPTUNE and PLUTO GOOD ASPECTS Occult traits are positively used.
Neptune spends 14 years in each sign and Pluto from 13 to 32 ADVERSE ASPECTS Obsessive tendencies. Easy prey to tempta-

years in each sign. Any aspects formed last for extremely long tion.
periods of time; they are considered important in an individ- CONJUNCTION Intellectual abilities. An interest in the occult.
ual’s horoscope only if Neptune or Pluto are on the Ascendant Promotes gift of clairvoyance.
or Midheaven, or Pisces or Scorpio are prominent.

A s p e c ts  a n d  Sy na s t ry • 3 6 1



8
The Art of Prediction

Among the most imp ortant uses of astrology moment that the Moon is passing through the degree that
is the art of prediction. When a client consults an as- it occupies in your natal horoscope. A lunar return chart

trologer it is usually to ask questions about the future. As- foretells trends in the coming month.

trologers use many tools to anticipate future conditions. One of the most popular techniques for arriving at pre-

One is the drawing up of a horary chart—a chart that dictions is the casting of a progressed birth chart. There are

represents the present moment in which a person is asking a number of different ways to progress a horoscope, but

a question. The theory behind horary astrology is that the one in most frequent use is the day-for-a-year method.

there is sympathy between the cosmos and the human This method of progression is based on the theory that

mind; therefore, when a question is asked, the positions of there is a relationship in the human psyche between the

the planets at that moment can help to answer the ques- earth’s daily rotation on its axis and its annual revolution

tion. This theory underlies such predictive techniques as around the Sun. The theory postulates that the days fol-

the I Ching, Tarot, and card reading. lowing birth represent a person’s inner development dur-

Another method of prediction is to study the transits of ing the corresponding years. Astrologers also point to bibli-

the planets. You (or an astrologer) would consult an cal references to this method of progression. Numbers

ephemeris to arrive at the exact positions of the planets in 14:34 and Ezekiel 4:6 both speak of “each day for a year,”

the future—say, next week or next month—and then and Genesis 29:27 tells of a week symbolically representing

compare these positions to the planetary positions in your seven years.

natal chart. Let’s take a hypothetical example in which To progress your chart, you would begin by drawing

Jupiter next week was going to be in 27° of Libra, and in up an exact natal birth chart, which includes the precise

your natal chart your Sun is in 27° of Libra. This transit degree of each House cusp and the precise degree and

(called transiting Jupiter conjunct natal Sun) augurs a for- minute of the sign that every planet occupies in your

tunate financial trend, activation of energies, and the chart.

courage to make the most of opportunity. The next step would be to decide what year in the fu-

Another chart drawn for predictive purposes is the so- ture you wish to see. If, for example, you were born on

lar return chart—a horoscope cast for the exact moment May 1, 1975, and you wish to know about the year 2010,

that the Sun is passing through the degree of the sign it you would progress your birth chart ahead to 35 years af-

was in at the moment of your birth. The solar return chart ter your birth. Using the one-day-for-one-year rule, you

is analyzed in respect to your birth chart, and a study is arrive at the number of 35 days. Thirty-five days from May

made of the new aspects formed between the two charts. 1, 1975 (your birthday) brings you to June 5, 1975. At this

This is a useful tool for seeing trends ahead for the coming point, you draw up a brand-new horoscope for the day

year. It is also possible to cast a lunar return chart for the June 5, 1975. This horoscope is your progressed chart.

3 6 2 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



Now you would compare your birth chart with your with your natal Sun, there might be the possibility of mar-
progressed chart. You would calculate the new planetary riage in 2010.

aspects formed within the progressed chart, and also cal- Whatever the method of prediction, it is wise to keep in

culate the planetary aspects formed between the birth mind that astrology is not soothsaying or magic. As-

chart and the progressed chart. trologers do not predict. What they do is assess future

If, for example, your progressed Mars were in opposi- trends and point out possible areas of success or pitfalls.

tion to your natal Sun, 2010 might be a period of strain The true value of prediction is to draw attention to a per-

and ill health. If your progressed Venus formed a trine son’s strengths so that he or she may take best advantage
of them.

A s p e c ts  a n d  Sy na s t ry • 3 6 3



8
Synastry: For Lovers

When reading horoscopes in newspapers are to be found in a birth chart. Now that you can cast a
and magazines, a great many people look for simple birth chart for yourself, it is an easy matter to take

advice about love. When they read astrology books, the two birth charts (yours and someone else’s) and compare
second thing most people turn to (after reading about them in order to answer questions about compatibility
themselves) is a description of their lover or mate—or and love. This comparison of two people’s charts to see
prospective lover or mate. how they might or might not get along with each other is

The problem, however, with most astrological analyses called synastry.
is that they are limited, for they are based on Sun signs Before you read further about the specifics of synastry,
alone. As I have emphasized before, you are not a “pure” you should be aware that chart comparison is based on
Sun sign. You are a unique combination of signs and plan- the relationship between planets in the two charts—in other
ets. If you have set up your birth chart (as outlined in words, on the aspects (the harmonious and inharmonious
chapter 9), you see in front of you a picture of how many influences determined entirely on how many degrees apart
different factors go into your horoscope. The same is true the planets are).
for every other person. Here is an easy way to calculate the aspects between

The most accurate and complete answers about love the two charts. All you have to do is count signs:

HOW FAR APART INFLUENCE NAME OF THE ASPECT

Planets in the same sign Powerful influence. Can be beneficial. Conjunction

Planets one sign away Strain. Common ground is lacking.* Semisextile
from each other.

Planets two signs away Beneficial influence. Indicates harmony. Sextile
from each other 

Planets three signs away Tension, but not necessarily irreconcilable differences. Square
from each other There is usually a lot of energy between these two signs.

Planets four signs away Very harmonious. Pleasant and easygoing. Trine
from each other Sometimes so peaceful things may be dull!

Planets six signs away Opposite in the zodiac. There may be lots of arguments Opposition
from each other and strain, but there is also a strong and stimulating

attraction between opposites.

*The exceptions to this rule are Capricorn and Aquarius, who are one sign apart. Though they are quite different from each other (Capricorn is con-
servative, Aquarius is ultramodern), both are strong and can make a good pairing.

3 6 4 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



To begin your comparison of horoscopes, draw two sim- unconscious level. For more about why we pick the people
plified birth charts: yours and your lover’s.* we do, consult the influence of Mars and Venus in your

love horoscope (page 366).
The Sun and the Moon In comparing your two charts, begin with your Sun.
One of the first things to look at is the position of the What is your Sun sign? Now consult the aspects table on

Sun and Moon in both charts. The Sun is often referred to page 288. Is your Sun in a compatible sign to your lover’s
as the masculine principle in astrology, since it represents Sun? For example, if you have an Aries Sun sign, is your
a person’s outward expression. The Moon is called the lover’s Sun sign Leo or Sagittarius (four signs away) or
feminine principle, since it represents the emotional side. Gemini or Aquarius (two signs away)?
If a man has the Moon in his First House, he is usually the Now look at the two Moon signs. Are they compatible
kind of man who is in touch with his emotions—someone with each other?
who accepts feelings comfortably rather than someone Don’t worry if your two Sun signs or Moon signs are
who tries to repress them. If a woman has the Sun in her not in the most harmonious aspect to each other. Remem-
First House, she tends to have a strong sense of self or an ber that a square or opposition (three signs away and six
authority and dignity about her that is a natural part of signs away) may add fireworks to the relationship, and also
her personality. bring interest and excitement. In any case, this is only the

Very often you can tell the kind of woman whose per- beginning of your comparison. The positions of your re-
sonality will appeal to a man by looking at where the Moon spective Suns and Moons are a factor to consider, but only
is in his chart. Is the Moon in Aries or Leo? He probably one among many.
likes strong, assertive women who refuse to be pushed Here is a very positive factor: If your Moon is in the
around. Is the Moon in Virgo? He’s likely to be attracted to same sign as your lover’s Sun, or vice versa, this is a won-
practical and stable women. Is it in Libra or Pisces? He derful augury. It is a green light to a happy and lasting af-
tends to fall in love with romantic, feminine women. fair and indicates that each of you should have a deep un-

Conversely, you can often find out what kind of man derstanding of the other.
intrigues a woman by looking at the sign her Sun is in. Is it
in Taurus? She probably likes strong, earthy types who have Major Points of Incompatibility
a knack for making money. Is it in Gemini? She tends to be 1. If your Sun sign is the same as your lover’s Ascendant
attracted to brainy men, writers, and intellectual types. (Rising sign), or your Ascendant is the same as your lover’s

Keep in mind, though, that people don’t always end up Sun sign: This is a powerful indication of happiness and
with (or sometimes even go out with) the men and contentment between you. Your personalities mesh well
women who attract them. People also choose lovers on an because you tend to think alike.

*I use the word lover here to mean anyone you are romantically connected to, whether it is someone you only fantasize about or someone you’ve
lived with most of your life.

A s p e c ts  a n d  Sy na s t ry • 3 6 5



2. If your Sun sign is in opposition (six signs away) to Venus and Mars
your lover’s Ascendant, or your Ascendant is in opposition

Venus, planet of love, has always been a feminine
to your lover’s Sun sign: This is also a positive influence

planet in astrology. It represents your capacity for affec-
and bodes well for rapport. In this case, each person would

tion and sharing, your geniality, friendliness, and charm.
be likely to supply what the other needs or even lacks. For

The position of Venus in your chart tells what kind of ef-
example, if she is a Libra Sun sign and he is an Aries As-

fect you have on others. In a woman’s chart, it is usually
cendant, he will probably be able to give a push to her lazy

the placement of Venus that gives an indication of her love
nature, while she can bring a touch of elegance and ro-

nature.
mance to his aggressiveness.

Mars, which represents energy and aggression, is a mas-
3. If your Sun sign is the same as the sign of your lover’s

culine planet. It deals specifically with a person’s sexual
Tenth House, or your Tenth House sign is the same as your

nature, with the fire and passion of sexual response. In a
lover’s Sun sign: You both mix career and love well. In this

man’s chart, it is the placement of Mars that gives an indi-
case, your aims and goals should be compatible, and each can

cation of the way he deals with women.
be a source of power or inspiration to push the other.

Just as the Sun and Moon in your chart indicate to

The Sun and Ascendant some extent what kind of man or woman you are at-
tracted to, so Venus and Mars point to the kind of person

As you have just read, two powerful influences for
who sexually stirs you. In a woman’s chart, the position of

compatibility are when the Suns and Ascendants in the
Mars will often tell what kind of man arouses her. Very of-

two charts are in conjunction or in opposition.
ten the arousal is on a subconscious level. This may be the

If you don’t fall into either category, there are other as-
film star who ignites her imagination, the man at a party

pects to consider. Do your Sun and your lover’s Ascendant
she is immediately intrigued by without even thinking

(or vice versa) form a square (three signs away from each
about it.

other)? There may be quarrels along the way and probably
In a man’s chart, the position of Venus usually indicates

more than a little competition between the two of you.
the kind of women he is drawn to. For example, if his

But the sparks of feeling between you should at least make
Venus is in Gemini, he is likely to be stimulated by a

the affair interesting.
woman who is amusing, lively, and witty. Venus points to

Are your Sun and your lover’s Ascendant (or vice versa)
the woman who, consciously or not, seizes his emotions.

in sextile or trine aspect (two signs away or four signs
Astrologers always look at the positions of Venus and the

away)? There will be a great deal of tolerance for each
Moon in a chart to see where a person’s emotions are most

other’s foibles. You both tend to blend with each other and
strongly attracted.

work harmoniously together.

3 6 6 • U n d e r s ta n d i n g  A s t r o l o g y



There is a powerful sexual attraction when: 3
• Your Venus and your lover’s Mars (or vice versa) are in

the same sign: Both of you are passionate and sexually I hope I have piqued your interest in learning about
responsive. Your love life will be stimulating even if charts. The more you work with charts, the more profi-
there are temperamental differences. cient you will become. You will intrigue friends and family

• Your Venus is in the same sign as your lover’s Ascen- with your insights and observations.
dant (or vice versa): You tend to be imaginative lovers In addition, as I have stressed throughout this book,
and know what pleases each other. you will gain in self-knowledge, which is what astrology is

• Your Venus is in your lover’s Sun sign (or vice versa): all about.
This indicates not only a joyous sex life but also mutual
interests in other areas.

• Your Mars is in your lover’s Moon sign (or vice versa):
Can be a volatile combination because of the emotional
element; a high-keyed sex life is indicated.

A s p e c ts  a n d  Sy na s t ry • 3 6 7






8
Part Four

ASTROLOGY IN HISTORY
AND LEGEND






8
1 1

T H E  S T O R Y  O F  A S T R O L O G Y

s  a  child, lo oking up on a clear evening at a vast, endless sky twinkling with points of

Alight, did you make a wish on the “first star I see tonight”? You were doing what men and women have
done since they first turned their eyes skyward. People have always scrutinized the heavens, looking for

guidance, omens, and meanings.
The study of the Sun, the Moon, stars, eclipses, day and night, began well before recorded history. There are

reindeer bones and tusks of mammoths from the Ice Age that have notches carved on them picturing the phases
of the Moon. These bones and tusks are dated between 25,000 and 10,000 b.c., and some scientists place them as
long ago as 32,000 b.c.!

The path of the stars was recorded 6,000 years before Christ was born. As early as 2767 b.c., a horoscope was
cast in Egypt by Imhotep, the architect of the great Step pyramid in Saqqarah. That horoscope still exists!

Ancient astrologers charted the movement of planets and stars, and made predictions about eclipses, up-
heavals, famine, and fortune. They developed calendars for marking and measuring the passage of time. You can
still read star charts that were made by Egyptian astrologers in 4200 b.c.

In ancient societies, astrology and religion were inextricably linked. The astrologers were mainly priests. In
fact, the Sumerian symbol for divinity was a star. Even the patterns that the stars form in the heavens were given
names and worshipped as gods.

Not too surprisingly, the Sun was the most powerful god. The Sun gave warmth and light, nourished plant
life, and made crops grow. Druids, Egyptians, Incas, and Hindus were all sun worshippers. In the ancient Hindu
religion, Vishnu is the embodiment of the Sun, the symbol for life itself.

We can still visit some of the early observatories that primitive people built to study the skies. The fabled
Pyramids at Giza in Egypt, one of the Seven Wonders of the World, are elaborate tombs for dead royalty. They
are also giant compasses, whose triangular sides directly face the points of a compass and can still be used  to
take sightings. In the old Mayan city of Chichen Itza there stands a pre-Columbian stone structure that some-

3 7 1



what resembles our Capitol building. It is called the Cara- tern of Stonehenge to analysis by an IBM computer. He
col observatory. Inside, a spiral staircase leads to various discovered that these strange stones and holes can be

windows from which the positions of the planets can be used to record the positions of the Sun and Moon, and

observed as they shift throughout the year. that virtually every eclipse of the Sun and Moon can be

If you should find yourself in Brittany, the seaside re- predicted from them. Obviously, the people who built

sort in northwest France, visit the Menhirs (great stones) of Stonehenge in 2500 B.C. were not just barbarians who

Carnac. These are huge upright granite blocks ranging from painted themselves blue with woad. They built what is,

sixteen to twenty feet high. They were built by sun worship- in effect, a sophisticated astronomical observatory!

pers (many historians believe they were Druids), and used In the United States a structure called Casa Grande,

for astrological calculation. built by Hohokam Indians in Arizona around A.D. 1300,

In the south of England there stands the magnifi- has eight openings that are aligned with the risings and

cent structure known as Stonehenge. Stonehenge con- settings of the Sun at both solstices and both equinoxes—

sists of a series of stones, some as high as twelve feet, the four cardinal points of the zodiac.

placed in a circular pattern. Outside the stones is a circle Clearly, there are no new ideas; there are new people

of holes or pits. In 1961 Professor Gerald S. Hawkins, an discovering old ideas. Here is a brief look at the earliest as-

astronomer from Boston University, submitted the pat- trological lore in more or less chronological order.

3
H I N D U (5000 b.c .–3000 b.c .) parts, called Lunar Mansions, each part representing a

Hindus trace their religious wisdom back to seven ancient passage of the Moon through its twenty-eight-day cycle.

sages known as the Rishis. The word rishi means “to The lunar cycle, in fact, is a basis of Eastern astrology.

shine,” and the original Rishis were the seven stars of the Western philosophy is founded much more on the solar

constellation Ursa Major (Big Dipper). Hindu religion lit- cycle. As a result, astrologers often refer to the Western

erally began with the stars. world as children of the Sun and to the Eastern world as

Vishnu, the reigning god of Hinduism, is the Sun in- children of the Moon.

carnate, their most divine being. Sometimes, when the The Indian zodiac has twelve signs, the same number

world is in discord, Vishnu takes various forms and visits our zodiac has. However, in India there is a concept not

the Earth. Some of the shapes he takes on are the Ram, found in Western astrology. This is the doctrine of karma

the Bull, and the Lion, and carvings of these shapes are and reincarnation. Karma is the journey of the soul

found on temple walls dating back 7,000 years. In mod- through various lives (incarnations). A person’s karma is

ern astrology we still use those three symbols: Aries the based on three things: 1) the influence in this life of acts

Ram, Taurus the Bull, Leo the Lion. committed in previous lives; 2) the influence of one’s

The Hindus divided the sky into twenty-eight equal present acts on the next life; 3) unrealized acts. The prac-

3 7 2 • A s t r o l o g y  i n  H i s to ry  a n d  L e g e n d



tice of astrology in India is often linked to the discovery of and each was given a boat in which to cross the sky. See how
what stage a person’s soul has reached. similar the twelve Egyptian sky gods are to our modern as-

trological signs:

E G Y P T I A N (3000 b.c .–300 b.c .)
Egyptian Modern

Egyptian astrology was also bound up in their religion. The Sheep Aries the Ram
The priests held the secrets of the heavens. Within a com- The Bull Taurus the Bull
plicated hierarchy of gods and deities, each god had a spe- Two Men Clasping Hands Gemini the Twins
cific power and ruled over a particular kingdom of influ- The Scarab Cancer the Crab
ence. For example, Osiris was god of the dead. Isis was The Lion Leo the Lion
Osiris’s wife and sister, protectress of the dead. Thoth was The Maiden Virgo the Virgin
the god of learning, inventor of hieroglyphs, and scribe of The Horizon Libra the Scales
the gods. Many Egyptian symbols and deities reappear in The Scorpion Scorpio the Scorpion
the present-day occult study of Tarot cards. He Who Draws a Bow Sagittarius the Archer

The Egyptians were the first people to foretell a person’s The Goat Capricorn the Goat
character by the date of birth. They also gave to each The Water Man Aquarius the Water Bearer
month, and indeed to each day, a special deity who ruled The Fishes Pisces the Fishes
that day and that month.

The River Nile was the focus of Egyptian life. The river The Egyptians believed the Sun, another powerful deity,
made their barren region fertile, and so it is not surprising controlled the waters of the Nile. The Sun brought the
to find the imagery of water used again and again in their Nile to flood stage, providing needed irrigation to the sur-
mythology. The sky was a goddess named Nut, who was rounding countryside and making the deserts fertile.
also an enormous river. Lesser gods crossed the sky-river The Moon was also a special deity. The Egyptians desig-
in their individual boats. When an Egyptian pharaoh died, nated several gods to represent it. The famous Eye of Ho-
he was provided with everything he needed for the jour- rus, sometimes worn as an amulet to protect against dan-
ney across a great river into the afterlife. ger, was a picture of the Moon. When the eye of the

At first, Egyptians divided the sky into thirty-six sections. hawk-god Horus was completely open, the Moon was full.
(The Greeks later called these sections dekanoi, meaning ten Venus had her honored place among the gods. The
days apart, from which we get our words decan and de- planet Venus is a brilliant, silvery star that at times is seen
canate.) These thirty-six decanates remain unchanged to the in the morning and at other times in the evening. She was
present day (see chapter 3). Later, the sky was divided into pictured by the Egyptians as a two-headed goddess, each
twelve parts, and each part was given a form and a name. head wearing a different crown.
Each part of the sky was assigned three stars to call its own, One of the most famous astrologer-kings in ancient

Th e  Sto ry  o f A s t r o l o g y • 3 7 3



Egypt was Ramses II (nineteenth dynasty). At his death tween the forces of heaven and human beings here on
in 1223 B.C., Ramses’s body was placed in a sarcophagus Earth.
covered with astrological symbols, and put inside a pyra- Some historians mark the beginning of Chinese astrol-
mid at Abou-Simbel. There the great pharaoh lay, like ogy during the reign of the Divine Emperor Fu Hsi
Merlin, in his room of wonders. Some of the wonders are around 2800 B.C. The Bamboo Annals (a manuscript
still being discovered. For example, we have learned that found in a Chinese prince’s grave in A.D. 281) tell about
Ramses’s tomb was constructed so that on a certain date Emperor Yao, who named the twelve signs of the Chinese
the rays of the Sun would find their way into the very pit zodiac and divided the sky into twenty-eight Mansions of
of the grave. To this day, and on that very date, they do. the Moon.
When Ramses VI (a successor to the great Pharaoh) died, The Chinese zodiac differs from the zodiac of the West.
a star map drawn in the shape of a seated man was There are twelve years, and each year is represented by a
placed on his tomb. Modern scientists discovered that by different animal. This twelve-year cycle is sometimes
using this map, they can chart the journey of the stars for called the Yellow Road of the Sun. The twelve animals are
each hour of the night throughout the year. the rat, ox, tiger, hare, dragon, snake, horse, ram, monkey,

Not until human beings are replaced by a civilization of cock, dog, and boar. Legend tells us that when Buddha lay
machines run by a great computer are we likely to get any on his deathbed, he asked the animals of the forest to
greater precision than that! come and bid him farewell. These twelve were the first to

arrive. The cat, as the story goes, is not among the animals
because it was napping and couldn’t be bothered to make

C H I N E S E (2800 b.c .–present)
the journey.*

With Marco Polo’s adventurous travels in A.D. 1275, Euro- Chinese astrology is not content to rest with a division
peans learned for the first time of the great beauty, wealth, into twelve animals. There are also five elements (wood,
history, and romance of China. Untouched as they were by fire, earth, metal, and water). A Chinese horoscope is di-
outside influences, the Chinese had developed their astrol- vided into interlocking sets of the numbers ten and twelve
ogy along somewhat different lines from the Egyptians, (e.g., ten Celestial Stem signs and twelve Terrestrial
Chaldeans, Babylonians, and Greeks. Branch signs). In addition, the ancient principle of Yin

Life in ancient China revolved around the Emperor. and Yang (negative and positive forces) is very much in-
His title was Son of the Heavens, and he was an absolute volved in charting a horoscope.
ruler. Confucius wrote of the Emperor: “The sovereign Astrology has been an integral part of everyday life in
who rules by virtue is like the polar star. He stays mo- China. The new Communist regime, which prides itself on
tionless in his place while everything turns around him.” rationalism and materialism and derides astrology as mere
It was the Emperor who maintained good relations be- superstition, has made few inroads on the people’s faith in

*This is only one version of the legend. In certain Far Eastern countries (e.g., Vietnam), the cat is the astrological symbol instead of the hare.

3 7 4 • A s t r o l o g y  i n  H i s to ry  a n d  L e g e n d



the divinations of the horoscope. Not even the authority shepherds and farmers, who apparently spent a great deal
of the state has prevailed against astrology. of time looking up at the sky. They soon noticed a connec-

A Chinese person always knows his or her animal sign tion between the heavenly cycles and the cycles of growth
and will often give his or her age by naming the animal in plants and food. Based on such observations, the Sume-
year in which birth occurred. Major decisions in life are rians began to worship three all-important gods: Sin the
still made according to astrology. This is especially true Moon god, who traveled in a crescent boat and was the
when the Chinese seek guidance about whom to marry and most powerful; Shamash the Sun goddess; and Ishtar the
when. Astrology is also a guide as to when to conclude fi- goddess of fertility, whose home was the bright star of
nancial agreements, begin journeys, start building a new Venus.
house, and even where to bury the dead. As in most early cultures, the astrologers were the priests,

Some modern astrologers have tried to combine West- and the priests were not only religious leaders but leaders of
ern astrology with Chinese astrology. They give each per- government as well. Each priest ruled his separate province
son both an astrological sign and an animal sign. One be- (called city-states) and dispensed divine wisdom to his fol-
comes, for example, a Gemini Tiger or a Libra Dragon. For lowers. Large observatories or watchtowers (called ziggu-
those interested in learning more about this fascinating at- rats) were built for the priests to study the movement of the
tempt to merge two cultures, there are some books on the stars and planets. The ziggurats in the cities of Ur, Uruk,
subject. and Babylon were almost 300 feet high. We can still visit a

In truth, however, the astrology that we practice owes ziggurat built by King U-Nammu, who founded the Third
less to these Eastern influences. We are, after all, children Sumerian Dynasty (2079–1960 B.C.). It is widely believed
of the Sun and rely more on solar astrology than the East- that the biblical story of the Tower of Babel describes the
ern world and its children of the Moon. Our astrological building of a ziggurat, and tells in mythic terms of the folly
lore can be traced back to the Sumerians and to the fasci- of trying to master the secret of the heavens.
nating fragments of documents that contain the astrologi- By the time the Babylonian culture was in full flower
cal predictions of Sargon the Ancient, who ruled around (between 2800 and 500 B.C.), astrology had become more
2800 B.C. in a city known as Babylon. sophisticated. Besides the Sun, Moon, and Venus, four

other planets had been discovered (Mercury, Mars, Jupiter,

B A B Y LO N I A N (4000 b.c .–125  b.c .) and Saturn). The planets were given individual character-
istics and properties, and a god was assigned to each. For

In a fertile plain in the Middle East, bordered by the Tigris example, Mars, reddish in color, became identified with
and Euphrates Rivers, lies a region that was once known as the fiery god of war. Venus, seen early in the morning, was
Mesopotamia. The southern part was called Babylonia; the in a sense giving birth to the day; she was therefore a femi-
north was called Assyria. nine planet, associated with love and fertility. To this day,

The Sumerians were the first people to settle in the Mars and Venus have these same characteristics in modern
area, sometime around 4000–3500 B.C. They were mostly astrology.

Th e  Sto ry  o f A s t r o l o g y • 3 7 5



The four seasons were also given symbols: Spring was a The Babylonian Houses were 1) Life; 2) Riches and
Bull, summer a Lamb, autumn a Scorpion, and winter a Poverty; 3) Brothers; 4) Parents; 5) Children; 6) Health
Turtle. These divisions of the calendar date back to the and Illness; 7) Wife and Husband; 8) Death; 9) Religion
twelfth century B.C., and two symbols, the Bull and the 10) Dignities; 11) Friendship; 12) Enmity. With some ex-
Scorpion, are still used in modern astrology. Note also that ceptions, these are more or less what the Houses in mod-
in today’s astrology, the Bull (Taurus) is the sign for late ern astrology govern.
April and early May (spring), and the Scorpion (Scorpio) By the time of the reign of King Assurbanipal in the
is in late October and early November (autumn). middle of the seventh century B.C., the basic tenets of as-

The invention of the modern zodiac is credited to the trology had been set down. One of the reasons we know
Babylonians. Cicero, the famous Roman orator who lived so much about King Assurbanipal is that he left behind a
during the last century B.C., had an explanation for why the great library, much of which survives. We even have some
Babylonians were such acute astrologers: “They reside in memoranda written to the king by his astrologers. One of
vast plains where no mountains obstruct their view of the them (which reflects a narrowly monarchist point of view)
entire hemisphere, and so they have applied themselves reads in part as follows:
mainly to that kind of divination called astrology.”

It was the early Babylonian priest-astrologers who set To my Lord the King of all Countries—If an eclipse oc-
down the basic principles of astrology that have remained curs but is not observed in the capital, such an eclipse
almost unchanged until today. They divided the sky into is considered not to have happened. The capital means
twelve equal parts, through which the Sun and Moon the city in which the King is staying.
traveled. One theory is that they patterned the twelve di-
visions after the twelve months in the Babylonian year, Astrology was mainly used for wide-scale predictions:
one month for each lunar cycle. The sky was thought of weather forecasts, floods, good and bad harvests, eclipses,
as a circle of 360 degrees with each division being 30 de- war, and the fortunes of the king. Around the fifth century
grees. This is the way astrologers measure the sky today. B.C. astrology became more personal. There is a Babylon-
The twelve sky divisions, or signs as we call them, were ian horoscope dated 409 B.C. that is still in existence. We
given names: Aries, Pleiades, Gemini, Praesepe, Leo, also have a translation of a horoscope cast in 234 B.C. for a
Spica, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricornus, Aquarius, man named Aristokrates:
and Pisces. The Greeks later changed Pleiades to Taurus,
Praesepe to Cancer, and Spica to Virgo. These are the The position of Jupiter means that his life will be regu-
names we still use for the twelve signs of the zodiac. lar. He will become rich and will grow old. The posi-

Each of the signs had a precise influence over events on tion of Venus means that wherever he may go it will be
Earth. Each ruled a plant, an animal, a precious stone, and favorable for him. Mercury in Gemini means that he
a color. The Babylonians also named twelve Houses. These will have sons and daughters.
are divisions of the zodiac that govern various areas of life.

3 7 6 • A s t r o l o g y  i n  H i s to ry  a n d  L e g e n d



In Babylonian astrology the constellation of Cassiopeia The Sun, Moon, and planets revolve in concentric cir-

rules over Syria and Palestine. This constellation was called cles, each fastened to a sphere or wheel. The swift revo-

the Woman with Child because every 300 years it pro- lution of each of these bodies causes a swish, or musi-

duced an unusually bright star. Astrologers calculate that cal hum, in the air. Evidently each planet will hum on a

this star appeared after the birth of Christ, and may be the different pitch, depending on the ratios of their respec-

very Star that the Three Wise Men followed to the Manger. tive orbits just as the tone of a string depends on its

The Jews of that era are also known to have practiced length. Thus the orbits in which the planets move 

astrology. Among modern-day Jews the expression mazel form a kind of huge lyre whose strings are curved into

tov is used on occasions of joy, such as birthdays, wed- circles.

dings, anniversaries. Few people know that mazel tov has
its roots in astrology. The word mazelot in biblical Hebrew Two hundred years after Pythagoras, in the fourth cen-
meant “sign of the zodiac” or “constellation,” and thus to tury B.C., a Greek astronomer and mathematician named
wish anyone mazel tov literally means to wish them a Eudoxos introduced a calendar, based on the Babylonian
“good constellation.” one. Eudoxos also divided the sky into twelve equal signs.

He was the first Greek astronomer to explain the move-

G R E E K ments of the planets in scientific terms. (Our word planet,
(900 b.c .–a.d. 150)

incidentally, comes from the Greek plenetes, meaning
The Greeks, who came later to the study of astrology, were “wanderer.” While the stars remain fixed in their positions
not as patient observers of the skies as the Babylonians. in the firmament, the planets move in their orbits, so they
Not until the ninth century B.C. did the Grecian as- were thought of as travelers who crossed the sky and col-
trologers learn to differentiate between the stars and the lected souls.) Eudoxos’s theory was that the planets were
planets. When they did discover there were five planets, held in place by spherical shells that kept them in their
they gave them names based on their appearance: Venus paths.
was the Herald of the Dawn because it appeared in the A turning point in Greek astrology came when Alexan-
morning. (The Greeks did not yet realize that at times der the Great conquered Babylonia in 331 B.C. We know
Venus also appeared in the evening. They thought that was that Alexander consulted astrologers. There is a legend
a different planet, which they named Vespertine.) Mercury that when he was about to be born, an astrologer named
was the Twinkling Star. Mars was the Fiery Star. Jupiter Nektanebos stood by the bedside. Nektanebos asked
was the Luminous Star, and Saturn the Brilliant Star. Alexander’s mother to hold back the birth until all the

In the sixth century B.C. the philosopher Pythagoras stars and omens were propitious. At last Nektanebos said,
wrote his famous Harmony of the Spheres. He said that “Queen, you will now give birth to a ruler of the world,”
the universe was a giant sphere that contained the earth and Alexander was born.
and the air around it. His thoughts on the subject are There is another story about Alexander’s entry into
poetic: Babylon. It seems that Babylonian astrologers had pre-

Th e  Sto ry  o f A s t r o l o g y • 3 7 7



dicted Alexander would die in their city. To avoid this fate, R O M A N (300 b.c .–a.d. 476)
he entered the city by the west gate, which was apparently

Astrology was brought to Rome by Greek slaves whom the
not the expected route for a conqueror. The prediction did

Romans took captive. These early astrologers were some-
not come true, and Alexander went on to annex all of

times known as “astrologers of the circus”; the Romans
Babylonia, Persia, and India. However, when he did die, in

liked to bet heavily at chariot races and brought along
June 323 B.C. at the age of thirty-three, it was in Babylon.

their Greek astrologer-slaves to predict winners for them.
The Greeks took over Babylonian astrology and made

Astrology soon became a topic of great interest to Ro-
it theirs. They gave the five planets new names, taken from

mans. By the time of Julius Caesar (102–44 B.C.) just
the gods of their mythology. Later, the Romans renamed

about every important Roman statesman and military
the planets again, according to their gods of mythology.

man had his horoscope cast. Julius Caesar had a detailed
The Roman names are the ones we use today. Or, to be

horoscope prepared for him, and Mark Antony’s as-
precise, they are an English translation of a Latin transla-

trologer was a “gift” to him from Cleopatra. Caesar, in
tion of a Greek translation of the original Babylonian

fact, wrote a book about different kinds of divinations. He
nomenclature.

was warned of his death by someone versed in astrology,
The father of modern astrology is Claudius Ptolemy. In

“Beware the Ides of March.”
A.D. 140 this Greek astronomer from Alexandria wrote a

The Roman emperors who followed Caesar took astrol-
four-volume treatise called the Tetrabiblos (meaning The

ogy very seriously. Augustus (27 B.C.–A.D. 14) ordered
Four Books), in which he set down his observations and

coins to be minted that bore his astrological sign of Capri-
theories about the universe. The Tetrabiblos is considered

corn. Two stories have grown up about his early experi-
the first modern textbook on astrology. Ptolemy described

ences with astrologers. One is that on the day Augustus
the function of the planets, houses, and signs of the zo-

was born, his father, who was a senator, arrived late at the
diac. He formulated the theory of aspects, in which the

Senate because of the happy event. He explained to the as-
distances between the planets in one’s astrological chart

sembly that a son had just been born. At that point, Nigid-
have a good or bad influence. The study of aspects is still

ius, a famous Roman scholar and astrologer, stood up and
an important part of modern astrology.

predicted that the new child would grow up to be a ruler.
Ptolemy’s teachings remained unchanged for the next

The second story is about a time, before he was emperor,
1,400 years. It was not until 1543, when Nicolaus Coperni-

when Augustus visited an astrologer. The astrologer did
cus published his treatise, that Ptolemy’s vision of the

not know who Augustus was. Suddenly, upon learning the
earth as the center of the universe was seriously chal-

birth date, the astrologer threw himself at Augustus’s feet
lenged.

and worshipped him as the future master of the empire.
Tiberius (A.D. 14–37), who became emperor after Au-

gustus, studied the horoscopes of political rivals. If he saw
any that were likely to gain power in the future, he had

3 7 8 • A s t r o l o g y  i n  H i s to ry  a n d  L e g e n d



those persons put to death. Life under Tiberius was great and most renowned Arab astrologers is Albumassar
equally hazardous for astrologers. If the emperor was pre- (805–886), and translations of his writings found their
sented with a horoscope he didn’t like, he had the as- way into Europe and were influential in turning the tide
trologer thrown into the sea. Clearly, Tiberius believed that back toward astrology.
astrology should be a science in which never is heard a Another influence in turning the tide was the renowned
discouraging word. Church figure St. Thomas Aquinas (1225–1274). He lent

The infamous Emperor Nero (A.D. 54–68) believed in legitimacy to the study of the stars when he declared, “The
the auguries of the stars so firmly that he waited until his celestial bodies are the cause of all that takes place in the
astrologer told him it was the propitious time before pro- sublunar world.”
claiming himself emperor. By the time of the Renaissance, astrology was in full

Emperor Hadrian (A.D. 117–138) announced on the first bloom again. The Catholic popes now used astrology as a
day of each year the events that his charts told him would matter of course, and Leo X (1475–1521) had many as-
happen during the coming year. Hadrian correctly pre- trologers on staff at the papal court. The di Medici family,
dicted the hour of his own death. If that happened today, the ruling princes of Italy from around 1400 to 1600, were
it would cause the kind of shock among skeptics that great patrons of astrology along with arts and literature.
would register high on the Richter scale. Catherine di Medici was influenced by Nostradamus, the

famous French astrologer and physician. He correctly pre-

M O D E R N  E R A  (a.d. 1200–2000) dicted the death of her husband Henry II—and its exact
circumstances—four years before it happened.

After the fall of Rome, astrology went into a decline—ac- In the sixteenth century, a lonely and frightened young
tually more of a total eclipse—from which it did not re- princess in prison, facing possible death, had her horo-
cover until after A.D. 1200. scope read by a Dr. John Dee. Dee told her that she

One of the reasons for its decline is that astrology be- would live to ascend to the throne. Throughout the long
came very linked with superstition during the Roman era. reign of Queen Elizabeth I, Dr. Dee continued to advise
When Christianity became widespread, astrology was op- her on affairs of state as well as on her more personal af-
posed as the work of the devil and its study vigorously dis- fairs.
couraged. St. Augustine (354–430) was one of those in the One of the famous names in astrology at that time is
early Church who vehemently preached against the prac- William Lilly (1602–1681), an English astrologer who ac-
tice of astrology. curately predicted the Great Fire of London. As a result, he

Though there was little astrology practiced in Europe was summoned before Parliament and charged with hav-
during this time, it did not disappear completely. It merely ing conspired to set the fire. He was later acquitted.
changed its principal residence for a time. In the Arab Toward the end of the seventeenth century, astrology
world astrology remained a serious science. One of the again fell into disfavor. The succeeding century was known

Th e  Sto ry  o f A s t r o l o g y • 3 7 9



as the Age of Enlightenment, and astrology was linked The famed astrologer Evangeline Adams has been
with superstition and occultism. called the First American Astrologer. Miss Adams’s reputa-

During these skeptical times, in 1781, Sir William Her- tion was established during her first visit to New York
schel discovered a new planet, first called Herschel and when she said that the hotel in which she was staying “was
then renamed Uranus. This contributed to a growing feel- under the worst possible combination of planets, bringing
ing by the public that astrologers simply had their facts conditions terrifying in their unfriendliness.” That night
wrong when giving their chart of the heavens. Astrologers the hotel burned to the ground.
also had to accommodate to the discovery of the planet In 1914 (the same year as Alan Leo’s trial in England),
Neptune in 1846 and the discovery of Pluto in 1930. This Miss Adams was also brought to trial in America. She, too,
did not prove hard to do. Just as astronomers were doing, was charged as a fortune-teller. In court she was given an
astrologers simply enlarged their vision of the universe. anonymous horoscope to interpret. The horoscope was
The three new planets are now very much a part of mod- that of the judge’s son. Miss Adams’s reading was so accu-
ern astrology. rate that the judge congratulated her, remarking that “the

The founding of the Theosophical Society in 1875 by defendant raises astrology to the dignity of an exact sci-
Madame Helena Blavatsky started astrology on the come- ence.” He dismissed the charge against her. By 1930 Evan-
back trail. The aims of the society were to encourage the geline Adams had a very popular radio program on astrol-
study of comparative religions and to investigate unex- ogy, which won hundreds of thousands of converts.
plained laws of nature. The Theosophical Society played a During World War Two, Nazi leaders used astrology for
large part in the revival of intellectual interest in astrology, propaganda purposes. Joseph Goebbels, Hitler’s propa-
and many prominent astrologers of the day were active in ganda minister, had a number of astrologers on his staff,
the society. among them one Karl Ernst Krafft, who translated and

Around the turn of the century, two very popular as- reinterpreted the predictions of Nostradamus in ways that
trologers helped to bring astrology to millions. In effect, seemed to favor the Nazi cause. Krafft fell from grace after
they discovered the power of the media to promote ideas. Rudolph Hess’s defection to England. (The Nazis blamed
Alan Leo, a British astrologer, published an influential mag- astrology for Hess’s defection, saying he was “crazed by as-
azine called The Astrologer’s Magazine. In 1914 he was taken trologers.”) Krafft later died in a concentration camp.
to court for being a fortune-teller. The case was dismissed. Beginning in the 1960s, we have seen a new resurgence
In 1917 he was prosecuted again, and this time fined twenty- of interest in astrology. It is not just popular with the
five pounds. Alan Leo’s magazine, renamed Modern Astrol- younger generation or with those who read newspaper
ogy, flourished and gained many new converts to astrology. horoscopes every day. It is also the subject of serious re-
Leo lectured widely and wrote a number of astrology text- search. More people are learning more about this oldest
books, still in use today. His were the first books that ex- science all the time.
plained astrology to the layperson. In 1988, astrology became headline news when a White

3 8 0 • A s t r o l o g y  i n  H i s to ry  a n d  L e g e n d



House adviser revealed that First Lady Nancy Reagan, wife Nancy Reagan’s description of her relationship with her
of President Ronald Reagan, regularly consulted a personal astrologer is interesting. Joan Quigley, the astrologer, be-
astrologer. Mrs. Reagan apparently used her astrologer’s came a psychological support for Mrs. Reagan, an intimate
advice to schedule key events and appointments, both for friend who listened sympathetically to her problems and
herself and her husband. Understandably, this created a anxieties. The value of this role of counselor and sup-
great stir in the media and the general public, who felt that porter is often overlooked when arguing the pros and cons
astrology should not be a controlling factor in national of astrology and, indeed, is in itself a great benefit to those
politics. Mrs. Reagan defended herself, saying she sought who seek the advice of an astrologer.
the support and counsel of an astrologer, who became her More and more, astrology has entered the mainstream
confidante, only after her husband’s near-fatal brush with of our culture. It is no longer considered out of the ordi-
an assassin’s bullet on March 30, 1981. The astrological nary for people in business, commerce, banking, the law,
community has long understood that the Reagans con- the arts, politics––in fact, almost every major profes-
sulted astrologers as far back as the 1960s, when Ronald sion––to consult a personal astrologer.
Reagan was governor of California.

Th e  Sto ry  o f A s t r o l o g y • 3 8 1






8
1 2

T H E  Z O D I A C
The Legend behind Each Sign

n ancient times, the sky above us was seen as a giant hollow dome rising over a flat earth, much like

Ian inverted teacup resting on a saucer. Later, this vision of the Earth and the surrounding sky changed to
that of a hollow sphere––like an enormous soap bubble with the globe of the Earth in its center. The Sun

made a journey every year around the edge of the sky-bubble; within the space of one year it made a complete
circle.

The path of the Sun’s circle around the Earth is known as the ecliptic. This narrow band of the Sun’s path is
the zodiac. The zodiac is a belt circling the earth, 16° wide (8° above the ecliptic and 8° below the ecliptic) and
360° around. Within this belt are contained the orbits of all the planets in our solar system except Pluto, which
has an extraordinarily wide path. Also within this belt are stars, which the ancients arranged in patterns called
constellations. To the early stargazers most of these constellations looked like animals, so this belt of constella-
tions became known as the zodiac—from the Greek word zodiakos, meaning “circle of animals.”

The zodiac is divided into twelve constellations, each with a name and each given the shape of an animal or
figure. Using these constellations, the ancient astrologers named the twelve astrological signs.

The zodiac belt may be imagined (in the sense that it is a man-made division of the heavens), but the stars
within that belt are real. If you could simultaneously stand at various spots circling our globe, you would be able
to see all twelve constellations in the sky at one time. These constellations were known long before Ptolemy cat-
egorized them in his textbooks, and each constellation has a story handed down through ancient myths. This
folklore has become very much a part of our knowledge of each astrological sign.

3 8 3



ARIES, the Ram

The first sign of the zodiac is represented by the ficed to the god Jupiter. The gullible king planned to have his
Ram. In mythology, the Ram has always been coura- son and daughter killed in order to save his people.

geous and enterprising, a lively, energetic animal able to A quick shift now to Phrixus and Helle, who were tending
bound over obstacles and rocky terrain. their sheep. In their flock was a Ram with golden fleece. This

The story of the Ram begins in ancient Greece with a king Golden Ram had been given to their mother Nephele as a
named Athamus who ruled the province of Boetia. Athamus present from the god Hermes (Mercury). Nephele, getting
married a woman called Nephele, and they had two beautiful wind of what evil was afoot, begged the Ram to save her chil-
children, a son and daughter they named Phrixus and Helle. dren. The Ram spoke with the voice of a man to warn

After a time, Athamus grew tired of Nephele and deserted Phrixus and Helle of their danger, then told them to climb
her. He took a second wife, Ino, and they had two sons. Ino onto his back. Then he flew with them across the sea.
was a jealous and conniving woman who hated her stepchil- Unfortunately, as they were crossing the strait that divides
dren Phrixus and Helle, and set about plotting their deaths. Europe and Asia, Helle grew dizzy and faint and slipped off

The first thing she did was convince the women of her the Ram’s back. She fell into the sea and drowned. To this
country to roast the corn before planting it. This effectively day, the strait into which she fell is named after her, the
cancelled out the crops that year. Famine swept the land. The Hellespont.
king sent a messenger to the Oracle at Delphi to find out Her brother Phrixus, however, was carried safely to the
what caused the crop failure. Apparently, it never occurred to land of Colchis. This put an end to the plot of the villainous
him to ask the women who planted the crops, but this is the Ino, though it does not seem to have done much to relieve
sort of oversight of which some modern political leaders are the famine or to have brought King Athamus to his senses.
also guilty. Rather ungratefully it would seem, Phrixus killed the

Ino managed to bribe the king’s messenger to return from Golden Ram as a sacrifice to Jupiter, who in turn placed the
Delphi and tell the king that the crops would not grow again Ram’s likeness among the stars in heaven to honor him for
until the lives of his children Phrixus and Helle were sacri- his heroism.

3 8 4 • A s t r o l o g y  i n  H i s to ry  a n d  L e g e n d



TAURUS, the Bull

The second sign of the zodiac is represented by the image, so he transformed himself into a Bull. He became not
Bull, an animal that is both fierce and gentle and has al- an ordinary bull, but a magnificent white Bull with jewel-like

ways symbolized strength and sexuality. horns and a silver crescent moon in the middle of his fore-
The myth of the Bull begins with Jupiter, supreme god of head.

ancient Greece, ruler of heaven, of lesser gods, and men. Europa was fascinated by the beautiful, gentle Bull, and
Jupiter had a strong romantic streak, and had numerous love began to caress him. Finally she climbed onto his back. That
affairs, wives, and mistresses. One such love affair concerns was just what Jupiter wanted. He sprang into the air and car-
the beautiful Princess Europa, daughter of the King of ried her away to the island of Crete. There, he changed him-
Phoenicia. self back to his true likeness and declared his love for Europa.

Europa led a very sheltered existence in her father’s palace Under the boughs of a large tree, he and Europa became
and knew nothing of the world outside. One night she had a lovers.
prophetic dream in which a strange woman held out her Not long afterward Venus, the goddess of love, appeared to
arms to Europa and said, “I shall bring you to Jupiter, for des- Europa to confess that she was the strange woman in the
tiny has appointed you his beloved.” dream. From now on, Venus told her, the continent to which

Sure enough, that day when Europa and a group of young Jupiter had taken her would be known as Europe.
maidens went out to pick roses and hyacinths in a meadow by This adulterous love story (Jupiter was married to the
the sea, Jupiter saw her and was thunderstruck by her beauty. goddess Juno) has a happy ending. Europa bore Jupiter three
There and then he determined to have her. children, and Jupiter took the likeness of the Bull and placed

Jupiter knew that an innocent young girl like Europa it in the heavens.
would run from him if he showed himself in his own godlike

Th e  Z o d i ac • 3 8 5



GEMINI, the Twins

Gemini  is  the sign of the Twins. It is the third sign up strong and stalwart and inseparable. Castor became fa-
of the zodiac and the first to have a human rather than mous for his skill as a horse-tamer; Pollux was renowned as a

an animal symbol. superb boxer. When they were young men they joined Jason
The myth of the Twins, like that of the previous sign Tau- and his Argonauts on their expedition to find the Golden

rus, also involves Jupiter and his eye for a pretty face. In this Fleece. During a storm at sea, two stars appeared over the
story, the object of his affections is a beautiful woman, Leda, heads of the twins and the storm miraculously ended. Be-
married to Tyndareus, king of Sparta. The lustful god Jupiter, cause of that incident, Castor and Pollux are considered the
apparently unwilling to try the bull ploy twice (see Taurus), patron saints of travelers at sea. (During storms at sea, these
changed himself into the form of a magnificent swan. Details lights are still seen twinkling at the top of ships’ masts and
of the encounter are a bit sketchy, but he did manage to se- other tall spires. They are caused by the discharge of electric-
duce Leda while disguised as a swan. ity. The legend is that if two lights are seen, the storm will

From this remarkable union, Leda bore two eggs. The cease; if only one appears, the storm will grow worse.)
story goes that one of the eggs was the offspring of Jupiter, The twin brothers are described as high-spirited young
and that the other was the offspring of Leda’s mortal hus- men. Unfortunately, during a battle Castor met his death.
band. The two eggs produced four children: two brothers, Pollux was inconsolable. At last he went to his father Jupiter
Castor and Pollux, and two sisters, Helen of Troy and to beg him to bring Castor back to life. In turn, Pollux volun-
Clytemnestra. It is unclear exactly whom Jupiter sired. Some teered to give up his own life as ransom.
versions of the tale say that Castor and Pollux were his im- Jupiter rewarded the brothers’ great love and attachment
mortal offspring. Others have Castor and Helen as Jupiter’s to each other by placing them in the sky as stars. There they
children. shine in the constellation of Gemini, side by side throughout

In either case, the twin brothers Castor and Pollux grew the ages.

3 8 6 • A s t r o l o g y  i n  H i s to ry  a n d  L e g e n d



CANCER, the Crab

The fourth sign of the zodiac is symbolized by the are hard-shelled and move slowly (like the Sun’s movement
Crab, a water creature that is also capable of walking on on entering Cancer).

land. We know that the crab symbol was placed in the zodiac According to Greek legend, Cancer is the giant crab that
some five hundred years before Christ. The Chaldeans gave it attacked the foot of Hercules while he was engaged in battle
the name of Cancer, or Crab, because the crab’s backward or with the monstrous nine-headed serpent Hydra. Hercules,
oblique movement appeared to represent the Sun’s movement son of the god Jupiter and a mortal woman Alcmena, had
upon reaching this sign. When the Sun reaches the sign of been sent on twelve difficult and heroic undertakings, known
Cancer (around June 21) it seems to remain stationary for a as the Twelve Labors of Hercules. One of Hercules’s Labors
few days. The Sun’s entry into Cancer begins the summer sol- was to slay the evil serpent Hydra. Hercules was having his
stice; the very word solstice signifies “the Sun standing still.” hands full as the crab attacked, for every time Hercules cut off

In Egypt, the constellation was called Stars of the Water one of Hydra’s heads, two more grew in its place.
and was represented by two turtles. (This may have been be- The crab’s attack on Hercules was instigated by Juno,
cause the constellation was seen at dawn when the Nile was at Jupiter’s jealous wife, who was set on Hercules’s destruction.
its lowest; Nile turtles were rather plentiful at that time of Unfortunately, the giant crab’s attack sealed its own doom, for
year.) Many astrologers think that Cancer the Crab is a meld- Hercules crushed it before proceeding to dispatch the Hydra.
ing of the Egyptian turtles and a Babylonian water creature However, legend has it that Juno was grateful for the crab’s
called Allul, which was apparently a kind of tortoise. All three attempt to carry out her orders. As a reward for its obedience
water creatures—turtles, tortoise, and crab—are similar in and sacrifice, she placed the crab’s figure in the heavens along
important ways. They resemble each other in form, and all with other heroic symbols.

Th e  Z o d i ac • 3 8 7



LEO, the Lion

Leo, fifth sign of the zodiac, is represented bronze simply bounced off his pelt. Hercules tried to kill the
by the Lion, king of beasts. Traditionally, the mythology lion with arrows, but they just fell away from the lion’s side.

of the Lion is based on the story of Hercules and the Nemean Finally Hercules wrestled with the lion barehanded. Because
Lion. he possessed such great strength, he managed to get a grip

Hercules was the son of the great god Jupiter and the around the lion’s neck and strangle him to death. In the
mortal woman Alcmena. Jupiter’s wife Juno, understandably process, the lion bit off Hercules’s finger, which by any meas-
jealous of Jupiter’s numerous love affairs, set herself against ure would seem to indicate he got off lightly.
Hercules from the time he was a baby. When he was a young After he killed the beast, Hercules skinned the magical
man Hercules was compelled to embark on twelve heroic and pelt. From the skin, Hercules made himself a breastplate, and
desperate undertakings, known as the Twelve Labors of Her- from the lion’s jaw he formed a helmet. This new armor was
cules. to prove very valuable during his subsequent Labors.

The first Labor was to go to the valley of Nemea and there The constellation of Leo is said to commemorate the brav-
kill the savage and fearless Nemean lion. The skin of this lion ery of combat between Hercules and the magnificent Ne-
could not be hurt by the weapons of man. Stone, iron, and mean Lion.

3 8 8 • A s t r o l o g y  i n  H i s to ry  a n d  L e g e n d



VIRGO, the Virgin

Virgo is  the sixth sign of the zodiac and the Jupiter, chief of gods, became so angry at the gods’ secret
second sign to have a human representation rather than of fire being given to man that he bound Prometheus to a

an animal one. Virgo is often depicted as a young woman rock on Mount Caucasus where an eagle constantly tore at his
holding a sheaf of wheat, for the constellation of Virgo has al- liver, though never entirely consuming it. He also sent a curse
ways been associated with the harvest. Babylonians called the to Earth, brought by the first woman. Her name was Pandora,
constellation The Furrow, and it was represented by a corn meaning “a gift of all the gods.”
goddess. The most prominent star in Virgo is named Spica, Pandora brought with her a box, which she was told never
meaning Ear of Corn. to open. One day, seized with curiosity, she lifted the lid of

The legend of Virgo is found in the Greek myth of Cre- the box. Out sprang terrible plagues to haunt mankind for-
ation. The story goes that before men or animals lived on ever after: sickness and death for the body; anger, envy, and
Earth, a race of giants, called titans, ruled the world. Two ti- revenge for the mind. At the bottom of the box lay the one
tan brothers, Prometheus and Epimetheus, were given the thing that had not escaped—hope.
task of creating human beings and animals. When this was During the terrible times that followed, the gods deserted
done, Epimetheus set about giving various gifts to the ani- Earth one by one and went to live in heaven. The very last to
mals—wings to one kind, claws to another, etc. He was so leave was Astraea, goddess of innocence and purity. After
generous that when it came time to dispense something to leaving the Earth, Astraea was placed among the stars and be-
mankind, he had nothing left to give, so he asked Prometheus came the constellation of Virgo. The legend is that one day
for help. Prometheus went into heaven and came back with the Golden Age will come again, and that Astraea (Virgo) will
the gift of fire. This made man superior to other species, for return to Earth.
with fire he could keep warm, make tools, and eventually de-
velop commerce and science.

Th e  Z o d i ac • 3 8 9



LIBRA, the Scales

Libra is  the seventh astrological sign and the only scale rests the heart; in the other bowl Truth sits, symbolized
one to have a symbol that is neither animal nor human. by a feather. In this depiction, the scale is equally balanced. In

The Scales represent balance and justice, harmony and equi- Egyptian religion, the dead heart (or soul) had to be in har-
librium. mony with Truth before it could pass into the afterlife.

Like the previous sign, Virgo, Libra is associated with the The Scales have also long been associated with the concept
harvest, for in ancient times grains and crops were weighed of justice and the law. We have all seen statues of the embodi-
on scales after they were harvested. The Scales also have a ment of Justice. She is a woman who is blindfolded and who
more profound symbolism. They are the scales of judgment holds the scale in her hands. The Scales are the symbol of im-
for the dead, where souls are weighed. partiality, of rendering to each person his or her rightful due.

In Egyptian religion the scales of judgment were the sole In Greek mythology Justice was represented by the god-
province of the god Anubis, Conductor of Souls. Anubis, who dess Themis, mother of Astraea (see Virgo). Themis and her
had the head of a jackal, guided the dead through the under- daughter Astraea are the constellations of Libra and Virgo,
world and made sure they were weighed fairly. He was the who shine side by side in the firmament. The legend is that
master of the balance (the scale). There is in existence a when the human race finally reaches its Golden Age, Themis
painting, called the Papyrus of Ani, dated around 1500 B.C., (symbolizing justice) and her daughter (symbolizing inno-
that shows a judgment scene. Anubis is crouching by a large cence) will return to Earth.
scale weighing the heart of a dead person. In one bowl of the

3 9 0 • A s t r o l o g y  i n  H i s to ry  a n d  L e g e n d



SCORPIO, the Scorpion

The eighth sign of the zodiac is represented by the dawn, fell in love with him and carried him away with her.
Scorpion, a poisonous creature that can paralyze its vic- Diana, the moon-goddess, became jealous that Eos should

tims with the sting of its tail. take a mortal lover and commanded a scorpion to kill Orion.
The sign of Scorpio suffers from its association with the Another version is that Orion tried to rape Diana, and she

scorpion, since its symbol is often hated and feared. The scor- brought a giant scorpion out of the earth that stung Orion to
pion, however, was not always reviled. In ancient Egypt it was death.
deified in the form of Selket, the scorpion-goddess. Selket was After Orion’s death, Jupiter placed both Orion and the
the protectress of the dead, and she is often seen on walls of Scorpion among the stars. They each became a constellation.
tombs with her wings spread out in a protective gesture. Orion, with his golden armor and sword in hand, is one of

The classical myth of the Scorpion begins with the death the brightest and most spectacular constellations in the heav-
of Orion, a beautiful young giant and a great hunter who was ens on a winter night. But when the Scorpion, who was
the son of Neptune (god of the sea). Tales of Orion’s prowess, placed in the zodiac, rises in summer, the brilliance of Orion
strength, and manliness are legend. The story of his death is fades.
related in many versions. One is that Eos, goddess of the

Th e  Z o d i ac • 3 9 1



SAGITTARIUS, the Archer

Sagit tarius, the ninth sign of the zodiac, is de- ous boar, he accidentally struck Chiron in the knee with a
picted as an Archer, but the Archer is not an ordinary poisonous shaft. Chiron suffered the agony of dying, but be-

man drawing a bow. He is a centaur, that mythological crea- cause he was immortal he could not die. Hercules promised
ture who is half man and half horse. Sagittarius is the only to find Death to release him. On his journey Hercules came
astrological sign to have both a human and animal represen- across poor Prometheus, chained throughout eternity to a
tation. rock where an eagle tore at his liver. The supreme god Jupiter

The constellation of Sagittarius, however, is not just any had put a curse on Prometheus: his torture would last until
centaur. It is the great and wise Chiron, a son of the titan-god someone of his own free will consented to suffer in his place.
Saturn. Chiron was a friend and confidant of both gods and The dying Chiron took Prometheus’s place. Thus, the curse
men. The gods taught Chiron the arts of medicine, hunting was fulfilled. Chiron was allowed to die, and Prometheus was
and riding, music, and prophecy. In turn, Chiron himself be- set free by Hercules.
came a renowned teacher. Among his famous pupils were After Chiron’s death Jupiter rewarded his noble character
Achilles, Jason, Castor and Pollux, and Hercules. by placing the heroic centaur among the stars, and he became

One day, while the great Hercules was hunting a danger- the constellation Sagittarius.

3 9 2 • A s t r o l o g y  i n  H i s to ry  a n d  L e g e n d



CAPRICORN, the Goat

The tenth sign of the zodiac is represented by the of the underground sea to dispense his wisdom, and every
Goat, a sure-footed animal who scales the heights by tak- night he returned there.

ing advantage of every foothold. By the time of Greek and Roman culture, Capricorn had
In ancient times, the Goat was depicted as part goat and become associated with the god Pan, a sporting and lusty

part fish, with its front half the goat and its back half the fish. creature who ruled over woodlands and fields, flocks and
In many old drawings and engravings you will see the Goat shepherds. Pan was a man from the waist up and a goat from
pictured with a fish tail, and in some astrology books Capri- the waist down. He had goat ears and goat horns.
corn is known as the Sea-Goat. Pan was fond of music and was famous for playing the

The Sea-Goat in the Babylonian religion was a great and pipes. His shepherd’s pipe, called a syrinx, was actually a
revered god named Ea, who brought learning and culture to nymph who had rejected his sexual advances. Pan turned her
the people of Mesopotamia. In the valley of Mesopotamia, ir- into a musical instrument, saying that if he could not have
rigation of land and crops came primarily from the flooding her one way she would be his in a new guise.
of the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers. Because of this, people be- In time, Pan became known as the god of Nature. Certain
lieved there was an ocean of fresh water underneath the qualities of Pan’s—sexuality, impudence, a love of
earth. The god Ea lived in that ocean. Every day he came out nature––have become part of the character of Capricorn.

Th e  Z o d i ac • 3 9 3



AQUARIUS, the Water Bearer

The eleventh sign of the zodiac has as its symbol of evils, and plagues and sickness of the mind and body were
the Water Bearer, a human figure carrying a jar or recep- released on Earth.

tacle from which water pours out in a stream. The great god Jupiter looked down and decided to rid the
The symbol of the Water Bearer goes back to both Egypt- world of people and create a new race worthier of life. With

ian and Babylonian religion. In Egypt the Water Bearer was the help of his brother Neptune, Jupiter covered the earth
the god Hap, the personification of the river Nile. Hap car- with water. Only two people were saved, Deucalion and his
ried two vases of water, which represented both the South wife Pyrrha, who were both just and pious and who wor-
and North Nile, and was considered the sustainer of life. All shipped the gods faithfully. They took refuge on Mount Par-
living things would die without the waters of Hap. nassus, and when Jupiter saw them he remembered their ex-

In Greek literature the constellation of Aquarius was emplary lives. He caused the waters to recede and the earth to
called the Water Pourer, and is sometimes thought to repre- dry up. Then Deucalion and Pyrrha were commanded to cast
sent the god Jupiter, who at a command caused the waters to the bones of their mother behind them. Deucalion inter-
pour from heaven. It also commemorates Deucalion, the only preted “the bones of his mother” to mean the stones of the
man to come through the Great Flood unharmed. earth, and he and Pyrrha began to pick up stones and cast

At the beginning of creation, gods and humanity lived in them behind themselves as they walked. These stones slowly
harmony during an era called the Golden Age. The earth pro- turned into human beings; the ones Deucalion threw became
duced food without people having to till the soil; the waters men, and the stones Pyrrha threw became women. Thus,
flowed with wine and honey. Then Pandora opened her box Deucalion became the father of a new race of mankind.

3 9 4 • A s t r o l o g y  i n  H i s to ry  a n d  L e g e n d



PISCES, the Fishes

The t welfth and last sign of the zodiac is shot fire, and a voice that was a combination of hissing
represented by two fishes, tied to one another al- snakes, bellowing bulls, and roaring lions.

though swimming in opposite directions. The two fishes One day Venus (goddess of love and beauty) and her
in water symbolize conflicting currents of emotion and son Cupid were walking along the Euphrates River when
hidden depths. Typhon suddenly appeared. His hundred heads flicked

The constellation of Pisces has been known as Two dark tongues and the eyes flashed fire. Typhon was intent
Fishes as long ago as 2000 B.C. The Babylonian name for on the goddess’s and her son’s destruction. Terrified and
this constellation, Kun, has been translated as The Tails (of unable to flee, Venus called on her father Jupiter for help.
the fishes). Kun is also known as The Band or The Leash Jupiter quickly changed Venus and Cupid into two fishes,
(the string that connects the two fishes). Tied to this leash and they jumped into the river and escaped. Another ver-
were two fish goddesses, Anunitum and Simmah, who rep- sion of this story is that two brave fishes leapt out of the
resented the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers. water to rescue Venus and Cupid and carry them off on

In Greek mythology the Two Fishes are associated with their backs through the river to safety. As a reward, Min-
a story of Venus and Cupid. A great and terrible monster erva (the virgin goddess) placed the two fishes among the
named Typhon had a hundred dragon heads, eyes that stars, where they became the constellation of Pisces.

Th e  Z o d i ac • 3 9 5






8
Part Five

ASTROLOGY IN 
OUR TIME






8
1 3

T H E  A G E  O F  A Q U A R I U S

veryone seems to have heard about the Age of Aquarius. Depending on which astrologer you

Econsult, we have either begun or will soon begin the Aquarian Age.
But what exactly is the Age of Aquarius?

To answer that question, we must backtrack a little. As you know, looking at the Sun from our vantage point
here on Earth, it travels around the Earth once every year. On its journey, the Sun travels a narrow path (called
the ecliptic), and passes through the twelve signs of the zodiac.

When the foundation stones of the science of astrology were first formally put in place in Babylonian times,
the signs of the zodiac were named after actual constellations of stars in the sky. Those early astronomers had no-
ticed that the Sun journeyed through the same constellations every year. During the spring, the path of the Sun
crossed over the constellation of Aries. In the fall, the path of the Sun crossed over the constellation of
Libra.

The beginning of the astrological year is a point called the vernal equinox. This is where the Sun’s path
crosses the celestial equator (the line that divides the heavens into a northern half and a southern half). At that
point, day and night are equal in length. The word equinox comes from the Latin, meaning “equal night” (i.e.,
night is equal to the day). There are two equinoxes during the year, vernal and autumnal. The vernal equinox
begins spring; the autumnal equinox begins autumn. The vernal equinox also begins the first astrological sign
(Aries) and the first half of the zodiac; the autumnal equinox begins the seventh sign (Libra) and the second
half of the zodiac.

When astrology was first formalized, the vernal equinox signaled the beginning of the Sun’s entrance not
only into the sign of Aries but also into the constellation of Aries. At that time, the two were considered to be
identical. Since then, however, astrology and astronomy have diverged. The signs of the zodiac no longer corre-
spond to the same constellations in the sky. Thus, nowadays, when an astronomer talks about Taurus, he or she

3 9 9



means the actual group of stars in the heavens that make 2000, the vernal equinox began to take place in the con-
up the constellation of Taurus. When an astrologer talks stellation of Aquarius. Hence, “this is the dawning of the
about Taurus, he or she refers to the second astrological Age of Aquarius.”
sign, that 30° segment of the zodiac that controls a whole Little by little, at the infinitesimal rate of approxi-
set of characteristics, symbols, and associations. mately 1 degree every 71⁄2 years, the equinoxes move

It was in the second century B.C. that a Greek as- through the zodiac. In the space of about 2,150 years, the
tronomer named Hipparchus discovered a phenomenon equinoxes move through one sign of the zodiac. In the
called the precession of the equinoxes. He found that, ever time span of approximately 25,820 years, the equinoxes
so slowly, the Earth shifts in its position as it spins move through the entire twelve signs of the zodiac. This
through the solar system. Scientists sometimes refer to this 26,000-year time span is called a Great Year. Each 2,100-
slight shift as the Earth’s “wobble,” because it somewhat year transit through a sign is called a Great Month; a
resembles a top wobbling as it spins. Instead of remaining Great Month is also referred to as an Age.
upright, the poles of the Earth, like the top and bottom of For the past 2,000 years or so, mankind was living in
a spinning toy, lean from side to side as the Earth rotates the Age of Pisces; we have now entered the Age of Aquar-
on its axis. Over the span of a great many years, this lean- ius. Because such vast amounts of time are involved, it is
ing of the Earth changes the placement of the celestial difficult to give an exact year to the beginning of a new
equator, because the celestial equator is on the same line Age. For example, some astrologers mark the beginning of
as the Earth’s equator except that it is projected out into the Aquarian Age at the end of World War Two. The vener-
the heavens. Therefore, as the position of the Earth shifts, able astrological association, the Church of Light, puts the
the line of the celestial equator shifts. date as early as 1881. Astrologer Capel McCutcheon be-

All of this adds up to the fact that as time passes, the lieved we entered the new Age in the 1970s with the ad-
vernal equinox (the point where the path of the Sun vent of the computer. The psychologist Carl Jung and the
crosses the celestial equator) takes place in an entirely dif- astrologer Charles Jayne both predicted that the new Age
ferent constellation. This slow motion of the Earth’s tilt is would begin during the decade of the 1990s. Others, like
called the precession of the equinoxes because, during the the Irish astrologer Cyril Fagan, set the date as far ahead as
span of many, many years, the equinoxes slowly travel 2300–2400. The consensus, however, is that as of the year
through all the constellations of the zodiac, in backward 2000 we were definitely in the Age of Aquarius.
order. (If they traveled in forward order, no doubt it Each Age is characterized by the astrological sign of
would have been called the procession of the equinoxes.) that era. During its existence, our earth has gone through

When the Babylonians calculated the zodiac, the ver- thousands of Great Years. Scientists estimate our Earth to
nal equinox took place in the constellation of Aries. Around be as old as 4.6 billion years, which means that it has
the time of the birth of Christ (the beginning of A.D.), the passed through almost 177,000 Great Years. But hu-
Earth had shifted enough so that the vernal equinox took mankind’s ancestors, creatures who first walked upright
place in the constellation of Pisces. Around the year A.D. on two legs, have been on Earth for only 115 Great Years

4 0 0 • A s t r o l o g y  i n  O u r  Ti m e



(3 million years). And Neanderthal Man walked this earth Astrologers trace mankind’s written history only as far
only nine Great Years ago. back as the Age of Leo.



AGE OF LEO AGE OF GEMINI
(circa 10 ,000 B. C . to 8000 B. C .)  (circa 6000 b.c . to 4000 b.c .)

This Age is characterized by the energy and creativity of This Age is marked by the development of writing (Gem-
human beings learning how to use their environment. Men ini is the sign of communication). Mankind expanded its
and women lived in caves and learned to refine highly fin- intellectual capacities by beginning to record and to store
ished and polished stone implements. The Sun, ruler of information. The invention of the wheel made rudimen-
Leo, was of paramount importance to Neolithic (New tary commerce and travel possible (both ruled by Gemini).
Stone Age) people, for during this era human beings ac-
quired a limited ability to raise food (agriculture) rather AGE OF TAURUS 

than merely hunt and gather it. According to astrologers, (circa 4000 b.c . to 2000 b.c .)

cave paintings from this age (the first written history) The great Egyptian civilization, with its emphasis on culti-
show a marked Leo influence. vation of land and new technology of building (the pyra-

mids), echoes the influence of earthy Taurus. Both the es-
AGE OF CANCER thetic nature of Taurus and its solidity are reflected in the
(circa 8000 b.c . to 6000 b.c .) beautiful art and architecture of this Age.
It was during this Age that human beings abandoned their
caves and formed fixed dwellings aboveground (the Can- AGE OF ARIES 
cerian influence to make a home). People learned to spin (circa 2000 b.c . to 1  b.c .)
and weave and make pottery. They began to grow varied This era is known as the Iron Age, when mankind learned
crops and to domesticate animals. Moon worship and fer- to fashion weapons from iron (Aries rules the metal iron).
tility rites abounded during this era. (Cancer is ruled by The Age is also characterized by its militancy and aggres-
the Moon and is the sign of domesticity, fertility, and sive spirit. During this era Assyria and the Greek city-states
motherhood.) rose to power, and Alexander the Great conquered the

world. In the latter part of the Age, militaristic Rome be-
came the most powerful empire ever known.

Th e  Ag e  o f Aq ua r i u s • 4 0 1



AGE OF PISCES Christianity. Drawings of fish were used as secret signs be-
(circa a.d. 1  to a.d. 2000) tween early Christians. Christ called His apostles “fishers

The enormous influence of Christianity changed the of men.” This Age is marked by sacrifice and struggle

world during this era (Pisces is the sign of spiritual knowl- (qualities associated with Pisces).

edge). The fish (symbol of Pisces) is also the symbol of

8
What will the Age of Aquarius be like?

For clues we need to examine the sign of Aquarius focuses on the betterment of society but often
Aquarius. Aquarius is the sign of brotherhood and hu- leaves out the betterment of the individual. It gets stuck in

manitarianism, aglow with utopian ideals. In the coming adamant thinking patterns that this is right and that is
era astrologers expect that the concept of individual na- wrong. Extremism, radicalism, and the militant revolu-
tions will fade and humankind will join together as one tionary are archetypes of this sign. Aquarius loves its own
people rather than be separated into nationalities. Within principles and, because it is such a mental sign, is easily
the next 2,000 years, we hope to at last reach the long- cut off from the heart. Negative qualities are coldness and
held ideal of world peace. spitefulness; the shadow side of Aquarius is anger. Astro-

Right now, however, this seems an impossible dream. logically, the journey of Aquarius is to move away from its
The Age of Aquarius has gotten off to a poor start. War- perversity, find the deeper truth of its humanity and tap
ring factions are everywhere. The United States has been into its idealism to create a truly better world.
embroiled in a prolonged war in Iraq. Fundamental Is- Keep in mind I am not speaking of an Aquarian per-
lamism has become strongly militant, dividing the world son but of the sign’s characteristics—and how these might
into “them” and “us.” Suspicions, greed, fear, violence, apply to the state of the world during these beginning
abuses of human rights and genocide throughout the years of the 21st century.
world have not lessened. Indeed they have become more Still, we are roughly only 2% of the way into the new
focused and divisive. Wealth is not distributed more Age of Aquarius, so perhaps we should concentrate on the
evenly, and programs are not implemented to better the positives.
lives of those suffering poverty, neglect and lack of educa- Aquarius is the sign of scientific knowledge and inven-
tion and health care. The haves and the have nots are tion, and rules the airwaves. It is impossible to imagine
more separated, angry, and conflict-ridden. what mind-boggling inventions will take place in the next

Consider the negatives of Aquarius. This is a Fixed Air 2,000 years, but astrologers predict incredible journeys
sign, meaning inflexibility and stubbornness of ideas. through space will definitely be one of them. Not just

4 0 2 • A s t r o l o g y  i n  O u r  Ti m e



travel in our own solar system, or even our own galaxy, Perhaps it is wishful thinking to say that in the Age of
but to the universe beyond. There will be space arks that Aquarius humanity will achieve universal harmony, but af-
can transport multitudes of people, space colonies, and ter all Aquarius is the sign of hopes and wishes. Predic-
interstellar travel. The achievement of travel to the stars tions are there will be a great emphasis on the common
will indeed be remarkable when one considers that Pluto, man, and that special privilege for people of high birth or
our outermost planet, is only 5.0 light-minutes distant wealth will become an antique notion. The aristocrat of
from us, while the nearest star (not counting our own the future will be the person of learning and achievement.
Sun) is 4.3 light-years away! Astrologers hope that in the Aquarian Age we will build on

Aquarius is a mental sign, and the future should be past knowledge to discover new truths (Aquarius is the
marked by as yet unthinkable intellectual achievement. truth-seeker).
There will be concern for the environment, and the dis- These predictions, of course, are based on the positive
covery of new technology to solve the problems of dwin- qualities of Aquarius. In our real world, we have grave
dling supplies of energy and resources on Earth. The problems to surmount. There is a terrible danger of so
power of atomic energy, electronics, and aviation (all over-populating our planet that only global war, disease,
Aquarian inventions)  will be harnessed for the greatest and famine will reduce our numbers. We are using up our
possible use. Already the computer has reshaped the natural resources at an alarming rate, stripping our planet
world, the way we communicate, conduct all business, and bare of plant and animal species and its ability to sustain
keep records. Scientists and psychologists say the com- life. Already, we are feeling early effects of a dire global
puter has already started to reconfigure how the human warming. Most terrifying of all, we have the atomic power
brain thinks. Aquarius is a practical sign; the purpose of to completely destroy ourselves and, quite likely, the Earth
knowledge is to make use of it, not simply for the sake of along with us.
knowing. Still, the Age of Aquarius offers hope. Uranus, ruler of

Astrologers have a special place in their hearts for Aquarius, is called the planet of the future, for within its
Aquarius because it is the sign associated with astrology. dominion lie modern science, invention, electricity, and
We have already seen an upsurge of interest in astrology at humanitarian movements. Uranus is the planet of the
the dawning of the Aquarian Age. As someone once re- power of will and of unconscious purpose. A promise is
marked, “Astrology is the religion of the new generation.” held out to us; we can build a wonderful new world. Or we
In the coming Age astrology will no longer be thought of can lose all that we have. It is up to the new universal
as a superstitious, arcane, or secret knowledge possessed Aquarians—in other words, ourselves.
by a few. It will be a respected scientific inquiry, available
to everyone.

3

Th e  Ag e  o f Aq ua r i u s • 4 0 3



8
About the System of Astrology Used in the Book

Two systems of astrology are in use today. One is diac into twelve equal segments of 30° each, and this group-
traditional astrology, sometimes referred to as tropi- ing has remained valid for thousands of years. Indeed, the

cal astrology. This is the system in most common use in symbols and associations of these signs have become part of
the Western world, and the one described in this book. humankind’s collective consciousness.

A second school of thought adheres to sidereal astrol- Traditionalists say that the Earth’s slow shift through
ogy. Sidereal, which comes from the Latin word for star, the signs of the zodiac relates to the zodiacal Ages of the
sidus, means “determined by the stars.” Siderealists believe Earth. This has nothing to do with the yearly zodiac,
astrology should be measured according to the actual star which is concerned with individual human experience and
groupings. As explained on pages 399–401, as our Earth is marked by the seasons.
slowly shifts position, the stars slowly shift their positions In traditional (tropical) astrology, the vernal equinox
in relation to us. Sidereal astrology is based on the theory marks the entrance of the Sun into the first sign of the zo-
that the dates of the Sun’s entrance into each sign should diac, Aries. That is the turning point, the beginning of the
change along with the Earth’s shift in position. They claim yearly zodiac cycle. (The word tropical comes from the
that this is the most scientific approach, since it is based Greek, meaning “turning point.”) Whichever constellation
on the position of the actual constellations in the zodiac. the vernal equinox may take place in, what remains con-
According to sidereal astrology, the zodiac that Claudius stant is that the vernal equinox begins the Sun’s entrance
Ptolemy calculated back in the second century a.d. has into the first degree of the ecliptic—and the first degree of
now changed by about twenty-five days. Siderealists differ the ecliptic is always the first degree of Aries.
from traditionalists about the dates for the Sun’s entrance In sidereal astrology, the vernal equinox currently takes
into the twelve signs of the zodiac. They believe that as the place about the fifth day of Pisces, and as the Earth moves
Earth continues to shift position, the dates for the Sun’s so will that date. According to sidereal calculation, there-
entry into each sign will also change. fore, someone born on March 22 in the year 5000 a.d.

Traditional astrologers point out that even in ancient would be classified as Capricorn rather than Aries.
times the zodiac never precisely corresponded to the actual All this may seem like making waves in a teacup. After
constellations. Ancient astrologers knew that the various con- all, ancient as astrology may seem, the science is at most
stellations in the zodiac were of unequal size and brilliance only three Great Months old. Much more unfolding of our
(for example, the constellation of Gemini is very large and understanding of astrology lies ahead during the new Age
bright, whereas the constellations of Libra and Pisces are of Aquarius—and a dispute that may loom large to us now
quite dim). Nevertheless, they grouped the signs of the zo- is sure to resolve itself as we learn more.

4 0 4 • A s t r o l o g y  i n  O u r  Ti m e



8
Part Six

AN ASTROLOGER’S 
LEXICON






8
A N  E X P L A N A T I O N  

O F  T E R M S

AFFINITY A mutual attraction between signs. and comprise the air triplicity. In astrology, air signifies
intellect, reason, and communication.

AFFLICTION An unfavorable or adverse aspect between
planets in a birth chart, indicating stress, difficulty, or ANGLES The four cardinal points in a horoscope that mark
disharmony. Modern astrology associates afflictions in a the horizon and meridian. The four angles are the Ascen-
birth chart with psychological problems that the native dant, Nadir (Imum Coeli), Descendant, and Midheaven
must make an effort to overcome in order to achieve his (Medium Coeli). These are the most important and sensi-
or her full potential. tive points in a birth chart. Planets on or near any of the

four angles have a marked influence on the subject’s per-
AGE, ASTROLOGICAL (Also known as a Great Month) A sonality or public image.

time span of approximately 2,150 years, during which the
vernal equinox passes through all 30° of one sign of the ANGULAR HOUSES The four houses in a horoscope that
zodiac. The phenomenon, known as the Precession of the immediately follow the four angles. Angular Houses are
Equinoxes, is caused by the slow but constant shift of the the First, Fourth, Seventh, and Tenth. In a birth chart,
Earth as it spins on its axis. Astrologers believe that in the planets in any of these houses indicate that the native is
latter part of the twentieth century the world left the Age likely to achieve prominence in the world.
of Pisces and entered a new Great Month—the Age of
Aquarius. A Great Year is the time span that it takes the AQUARIUS The eleventh sign of the zodiac, which the Sun
vernal equinox to make a complete revolution through all transits each year from approximately January 20 to Feb-
twelve signs of the zodiac, a period that lasts about 25,800 ruary 18. Aquarius has as its element air and is fixed in
years. (See also Precession of the Equinoxes.) quality. The sign is symbolized by the Water Bearer and

ruled by the planet Uranus. Aquarius natives are charac-
AIR One of the four elements under which the signs of the terized as innovative, idealistic, humanitarian, and intel-

zodiac are classified. The four elements are fire, earth, air, lectual.
and water. Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius are the air signs

4 0 7



ARIES The first sign of the zodiac, which the Sun transits horoscope is a chart for any given moment and a birth
each year from approximately March 21 to April 19. Aries chart is specifically for the moment of birth. In a birth
has as its element fire and is cardinal in quality. The sign is chart, the Ascendant (Rising sign) is the astrological sign
symbolized by the Ram and ruled by the planet Mars. Aries that was rising on the eastern horizon at the moment of
natives are characterized as impulsive, energetic, quick- birth (as opposed to a solar chart in which the Sun sign is
tempered, and having leadership ability. used as the Rising sign). The Rising sign is also the First

House in a birth chart, and thus the houses placed around
ASCENDANT (Also known as Rising sign) The sign of the the chart are known as natal houses. A birth chart is a very

zodiac that was rising on the eastern horizon at the time personal chart, and many astrologers feel it contains the
of birth. Also, the exact degree of the sign rising on the only true delineation of the native.
eastern horizon at the moment of birth, the point in a
birth chart that marks the cusp of the First House. The CADENT HOUSES (From the Latin word cadere, meaning
Ascendant (or Rising sign) characterizes a person’s out- “to fall”) The four houses in a horoscope that immediately
ward approach to life. In a birth chart, planets at or near follow Succedent Houses, so named because they “fall
the line of the Ascendant represent strength and power of away” from both Angular and Succedent Houses. Cadent
a person’s self. Houses are the Third, Sixth, Ninth, and Twelfth Houses.

In a birth chart, planets in any of these Houses indicate
ASPECT The geometrical relationship between planets in a that the native is mentally active and able to communicate

birth chart, which indicates areas of harmony, challenge, ideas.
strain, ease, and/or power. Aspects are classified as major
(Conjunction, Trine, Sextile, Opposition, Square) and mi- CANCER The fourth sign of the zodiac, which the Sun
nor (Quincunx, Semisquare, Sesquisquare, Semisextile).The transits each year from approximately June 21 to July 22.
study of aspects in a birth chart is an important part of Cancer has as its element water and is cardinal in quality.
horoscope interpretation. The sign is symbolized by the Crab and ruled by the

Moon. Cancer natives are characterized as imaginative,
ASTROLOGY (From the Greek, meaning “science of the emotional, sensitive, loyal, and with a tendency to be

stars”) The art and science of studying the celestial bodies moody.
and their cyclical motion, and determining their influ-
ence on human character, behavior, experience, and CAPRICORN The tenth sign of the zodiac, which the Sun
events. transits each year from approximately December 22 to Jan-

uary 19. Capricorn has as its element earth and is cardinal
BIRTH CHART (Also known as natal chart) A diagram of in quality. The sign is symbolized by the Goat (or Sea-Goat)

the heavens, called a horoscope, that charts the position of and is ruled by the planet Saturn. Capricorn natives are
the celestial bodies as they appeared at the time of an in- characterized as disciplined, responsible and hardworking,
dividual’s birth. The terms horoscope and birth chart are ambitious and determined.
often used interchangeably, although precisely speaking a

4 0 8 • A n  A s t r o l o g e r’s  L e x i c o n



CARDINAL One of the three qualities under which the diac. Each decanate has a planetary ruler, called a subruler,
signs of the zodiac are classified. The three qualities are and is also symbolized by a constellation. Decanates serve to
cardinal, fixed, and mutable. Aries, Cancer, Libra, and refine and emphasize certain qualities and character traits
Capricorn are the cardinal signs and comprise the cardinal pertaining to the overall sign.
quadruplicity. The Sun’s entrance into these four signs
marks the beginning of the four seasons: spring, summer, DESCENDANT One of the four angles in a horoscope (the
autumn, and winter. In astrology, the cardinal quality sig- four most important points in a chart). The Descendant,
nifies action, initiative, leadership, and outgoing activity. which marks the cusp of the Seventh House, is the point in

a birth chart directly opposite the Ascendant. The Descen-
CELESTIAL EQUATOR The Earth’s equator projected dant represents the channeling of power through partner-

outward onto the heavenly sphere. ships and relationships; planets at or near the Descendant
indicate that the native may come to prominence through

CONJUNCTION A major aspect, the most powerful in as- his or her associations.
trology, in which two or more planets occupy the same de-
gree (or are within 10° of each other) in a horoscope. DIRECT The forward-moving motion of a planet in its orbit
Conjunctions in a chart exert a marked influence, the pre- through the signs of the zodiac. Direct motion is the nor-
cise nature of which depends on the specific planets in- mal course of a planet. At various times, however, a planet
volved. may appear to turn backward in its orbit, a movement

known as retrograde motion. The retrograde motion of a
CONSTELLATIONS Groups of stars assigned names sug- planet is an optical illusion caused by the angle of observa-

gested by the patterns they form in the heavens. To the an- tion from earth. (See also Retrograde.)
cients, charting the constellations was an invaluable
method of studying and organizing the universe. DISPOSITOR A term used in horoscopes to describe the

ruler of a sign in which another planet appears. For exam-
CUSP 1. The point at which a sign of the zodiac begins. Per- ple, if in a birth chart Mercury is in Sagittarius, Jupiter

sons are said to be “born on the cusp” when their birth (which rules Sagittarius) is called the dispositor of Mer-
times fall at or near the beginning or end of an astrologi- cury.
cal sign. Cusp-born people often exhibit characteristics of
both their Sun sign and the previous or following sign. DRAGON’S HEAD See Nodes.

2. The point or line in a horoscope that marks the be-
ginning of a house. DRAGON’S TAIL See Nodes.

DECANATE (Also known as Decan) A 10° subdivision of the DUALITY One of the classifications under which signs of the
zodiac that divides each astrological sign into three parts of zodiac are grouped. A sign’s duality is either masculine or
approximately ten days each. There are three decanates in feminine. Six signs are masculine: Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra,
each sign, making a total of thirty-six decanates in the zo- Sagittarius, Aquarius. Six signs are feminine: Taurus, Can-

A n  E x p l a nat i o n  o f Te r m s • 4 0 9



cer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn, Pisces. In astrology, mascu- when the Sun enters the sign of Aries; at that point the
line signs are outer-directed, energetic, strong through ac- center of the Sun intersects the celestial equator as the Sun
tion; feminine signs are receptive, magnetic, strong through moves from the southern hemisphere into the northern
inner resources. hemisphere. The autumnal equinox (fall) occurs when the

Sun enters the sign of Libra; at that point the center of the
EARTH 1. One of the four elements (fire, earth, air, and wa- Sun intersects the celestial equator as the Sun moves from

ter) under which signs of the zodiac are classified. Taurus, the northern hemisphere into the southern hemisphere.
Virgo, and Capricorn are the earth signs and comprise the
earth triplicity. In astrology, earth signifies practicality, FEMININE SIGNS The signs of the zodiac belonging to
conservatism, stability, and materialism. the earth and water triplicities, namely, Taurus, Cancer,

2. The planet Earth, which we inhabit. Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn, and Pisces. In astrology, femi-
nine signs are characterized as receptive, magnetic, and

ECLIPTIC The great circle in the heavens that marks the ap- possessing strong inner resources.
parent path of the Sun on its yearly journey around the
Earth. The ecliptic is the path of the Sun when viewed FIRE One of the four elements (fire, earth, air, and water)
from the Earth (although in reality it is the Earth that re- under which the signs of the zodiac are classified. Aries,
volves around the Sun, and the ecliptic is in fact the path of Leo, and Sagittarius are fire signs and comprise the fire
the Earth’s orbit around the Sun). The narrow circular triplicity. In astrology, fire signifies energy, aggressiveness,
band of the heavens that has the line of the ecliptic enthusiasm, and impulsiveness.
through its center is called the zodiac.

FIXED One of the three qualities under which the signs of
ELEMENTS The four fundamental substances (fire, earth, the zodiac are classified. The three qualities are cardinal,

air, and water) under which the signs of the zodiac are fixed, and mutable. Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius
classified. Fire signs are energetic and enthusiastic; earth are the fixed signs and comprise the fixed quadruplicity.
signs are practical and stable; air signs are communicative In astrology, the fixed quality signifies persistence, single-
and intellectual; water signs are emotional and imagina- mindedness, determination, and resourcefulness.
tive.

GEMINI The third sign of the zodiac, which the Sun tran-
EPHEMERIS (Plural, ephemerides) An almanac that lists sits each year from approximately May 21 to June 20.

the positions of the Sun, Moon, and planets for each day Gemini has as its element air and is mutable in quality.
of the year. The sign is symbolized by the Twins and ruled by the

planet Mercury. Gemini natives are characterized as men-
EQUINOXES (From the Latin, meaning “equal night”) The tally facile, versatile, clever, and gifted in the ability to

two points during the year when the path of the Sun (the communicate.
ecliptic) crosses the celestial equator, and day and night
are of equal length. The vernal equinox (spring) occurs

4 1 0 • A n  A s t r o l o g e r’s  L e x i c o n



GEOCENTRIC (From the Greek words ge, meaning “earth,” GREAT MONTH See Age, Astrological.
and kentron, meaning “center”) Viewed or measured from
the center of the Earth. The concept of Earth as the center GREAT YEAR See Age, Astrological.
of the universe is the classical viewpoint of astrology,
which considers the Earth to be the center of human expe- HELIOCENTRIC (From the Greek words helios, meaning
rience and thus studies the positions and movements of “Sun,” and kentron, meaning “center”) Viewed or measured
celestial bodies as seen from the Earth. Most horoscopes from the center of the Sun. Since the death of the astronomer
are geocentric, although some modern astrologers also Nicolaus Copernicus in 1543, humankind’s concept of the
work with heliocentric (Sun-centered) charts. (See also universe has been heliocentric, i.e., that our solar system has
Heliocentric.) the Sun at its center. The roots of astrology go much farther

back in history, to a time when for thousands of years the
GLYPH The written astrological symbol for a planet or a zo- concept of the universe was geocentric. Because astrology is

diacal sign. The glyphs have symbolic meanings; for exam- concerned with celestial movements as they relate to human
ple, the circle represents the spiritual world; the half-circle beings here on Earth and also as seen by human beings on
represents the soul; the cross represents the material world. Earth, modern astrology continues to operate within a geo-

centric framework. However, heliocentric charts are used by
GRAND CROSS The rarest aspect-pattern in a horoscope, many astrologers, usually in combination with geocentric

consisting of two pairs of planets in opposition, the four charts, and a number of heliocentric ephemerides are in
planets involved forming a square aspect to each other. common use.
This pattern forms a cross in the birth chart. Combining
as it does four squares and two oppositions, the Grand HEMISPHERE EMPHASIS The circle of the horoscope is
Cross can be a most difficult configuration, often indicat- divided into four hemispheres––the top half and bottom
ing an obsessive, maladjusted personality. However, it also half (southern and northern hemispheres), and left half and
signifies dynamic energy, intensity, and force. A Grand right half (eastern and western hemispheres). In a birth
Cross often appears in the charts of self-made men and chart a preponderance of planets in the top hemisphere em-
women. phasizes extrovertedness, while a preponderance of planets

in the bottom hemisphere emphasizes introvertedness. A
GRAND TRINE An unusual aspect-pattern in a horoscope, preponderance of planets in the left hemisphere emphasizes

in which three planets are all in trine to each other (i.e., the native’s impact on the world, while a preponderance of
120° away from each other), forming a grand triangle. Be- planets in the right hemisphere emphasizes the world’s im-
cause a Grand Trine by its nature heavily stresses a particu- pact on the native.
lar element, for example, fire or water, it tends to indicate an
imbalance in the chart. However, a trine is also very favor- HERMETIC THEORY The theory, arising out of ancient
able, and a Grand Trine signifies enormous creativity or en- Egyptian philosophical wisdom, that the human being is a
ergy, and usually indicates that the native will be blessed miniature version of the cosmos and that everything in na-
with luck or success. ture has its parallel in man. Out of the Hermetic Theory of

A n  E x p l a nat i o n  o f Te r m s • 4 1 1



“man in microcosm” grew a vast body of correspondences HOUSES The twelve divisions of a horoscope that represent
surrounding the twelve signs of the zodiac: each sign governs different categories or areas of life. The twelve Houses of
a part of the body, rules over specific plants, herbs, colors, astrology are:
jewels, cities, animals, etc. The Hermetic Theory is also the
basis for such divinatory arts as palm reading and phys- First House of Self
iognomy (facial reading). Second House of Money and Possessions 

Third House of Communication
HORARY CHART (From the Greek word hora, meaning Fourth House of Beginnings and Home Life 

“hour.”) A special horoscope cast for the moment in Fifth House of Pleasure, Creativity, and Sex 
which a specific question is asked, as opposed to a natal Sixth House of Service and Health
chart, which is cast for the moment of birth. The theory Seventh House of Partnership and Marriage 
behind horary astrology is that there is a sympathy be- Eighth House of Death and Regeneration
tween the cosmos and the human mind; therefore when a Ninth House of Mental Exploration and Long-Distance  
question is asked, the positions of the planets at that mo- Travel
ment can help to answer the question. Tenth House of Career and Public Standing 

Eleventh House of Friends and of Hopes and Wishes
HORIZON In a horoscope, the line that intersects the circle Twelfth House of Secrets, Sorrows, and Self-Undoing

from east to west and divides the circle into a top half and
a bottom half. The line of the horizon in a horoscope con- Currently, there is a great deal of discussion among as-
nects the Ascendant and the Descendant. trologers about Houses, especially about House division.

While there is little disagreement about the basic concept of
HOROSCOPE (From the Greek words hora, meaning Houses, there is some debate about the number of them. For

“hour,” and skopos, meaning “watcher”) A diagram of the example, the Irish sidereal astrologer Cyril Fagan favored
heavens, specifically that part of the heavens called the zo- eight Houses instead of twelve. A much more hotly debated
diac, that charts the positions of the Sun, Moon, and plan- subject, however, is House division, and there are at least
ets as they appeared at a given moment and in relation to a twenty methods presently in use in the modern astrological
given place on Earth. The word horoscope also refers to the world. Among the most popular House systems are the
analysis and interpretation of that chart. Nowadays, the Placidus system, the Equal House system, the Koch system,
term has also come to mean the predictions for the signs the Campanus system, the Regiomontanus system, the Mori-
that appear in newspapers and magazines, as in one’s “daily nus system, and the Topocentric system. The House division
horoscope.” used in the CD-ROM in this book is the Placidus system.

4 1 2 • A n  A s t r o l o g e r’s  L e x i c o n



IMUM COELI (Latin for “lowest part of the heavens”) See characterized as exuberant, creative, egocentric, and pos-
Nadir. sessing a talent for showmanship.

INGRESS The entrance of the Sun, Moon, or any of the LIBRA The seventh sign of the zodiac, which the Sun tran-
planets into a sign of the zodiac. sits each year from approximately September 23 to Octo-

ber 22. Libra has as its element air and is cardinal in qual-
JUPITER In astrology Jupiter is the planet of good fortune, ity. The sign is symbolized by the Scales and ruled by the

expansion, abundance, and wisdom. The planet is known planet Venus. Libra natives are characterized as peaceable,
as the Greater Fortune (Venus is the Lesser Fortune). artistic, socially adept, and able to see both sides of a ques-
Jupiter rules the sign of Sagittarius, and at one time also tion.
ruled Pisces. (Pisces is now ruled by the planet Neptune,
discovered in 1846.) When Jupiter is prominent in a birth LONGITUDE The distance east or west on the Earth’s sur-
chart, the native tends to be well-liked, cheerful, and suc- face, measured in degrees from the prime meridian, which
cessful in his or her career. Jupiter’s influence can also in- is 0° longitude. The prime meridian (also called Greenwich
cline a person toward extravagance and overconfidence. Meridian) is a vertical line running from the North Pole to

the South Pole that intersects Greenwich, England. Green-
KARMA The philosophical concept, originating in the wich, England, is 0° longitude; New York City is 74° West

Hindu and Buddhist religions, that a person’s past and longitude; Tokyo is 140° East longitude. Longitude also
present deeds determine his or her destiny in this life and represents differences in time; each 15° of longitude repre-
in lives yet to come. Karma is not an astrological term, but sents one hour. When it is 12:00 noon in Greenwich, Eng-
the doctrine of karma is used in esoteric astrology, a form land (known as Greenwich Mean Time), it is 7:00 A.M. in
of astrology and theosophy that stresses spiritual evolution New York City and 9:00 P.M. in Tokyo.
and the unity of the soul with the cosmos.

LUMINARIES The Sun and the Moon. In classical astrol-
LATITUDE The distance north or south of the Earth’s equa- ogy, luminary was the more common term for the Sun or

tor, measured in degrees. Divisions of latitude are depicted the Moon. Nowadays the word planet is applied to the Sun
on a map by horizontal parallel lines. The equator is 0° lati- and Moon as well as to the planets.
tude; the North Pole is 90° North latitude; the South Pole is
90° South latitude. In order to calculate an exact birth chart, LUNAR MANSIONS Division of the zodiac into twenty-
an astrologer must know both the latitude and longitude of eight (or sometimes twenty-seven) parts, based on the
the birthplace of the native. Moon’s twenty-eight-day cycle (27.32166 days, to be ex-

act). Lunar mansions are used primarily in the astrology
LEO The fifth sign of the zodiac, which the Sun transits each of the Eastern world, e.g., Hindu, Chinese, Arab. Eastern

year from approximately July 23 to August 22. Leo has as astrology (“Children of the Moon”) is based on the lunar
its element fire and is fixed in quality. The sign is symbol- cycle, whereas Western astrology (“Children of the Sun”)
ized by the Lion and ruled by the Sun. Leo natives are is based on the solar cycle.

A n  E x p l a nat i o n  o f Te r m s • 4 1 3



LUNAR RETURN CHART A horoscope cast for the mo- zodiac and the planets correspond to various parts of the
ment in which the Moon returns to the exact degree it oc- body, also to the illnesses connected with them, to diet
cupied at the moment of birth. A lunar return chart is needs, and to the glands and hormones. Although modern
used to forecast trends and events in the native’s life dur- astrologers reject the notion of practicing medicine, the
ing the coming month. correlation between astrology and the human body is still

a valid guide to maintaining physical well-being.
LUNATION The moment of conjunction of the Sun and

the Moon, in other words, the New Moon. A lunation is MEDIUM COELI (Latin for “middle of the heavens”) See
also the period between one New Moon and the next, a Midheaven.
time span of approximately twenty-nine days. Modern as-
trologers tend to use the term lunation to mean a New MERCURY In astrology Mercury is the planet of communi-
Moon, which in a horoscope marks the beginning of a cation, intelligence, perception, and intellectual energy.
new cycle. Mercury rules the two signs of Gemini and Virgo. When

Mercury is prominent in a birth chart, the native tends to
MARS In astrology Mars is the planet of energy, force, sexual be clever, facile in speech, quick, high-strung, and likely to

desire, and aggression. Mars rules the sign of Aries and is possess a good memory. Mercury’s influence can also in-
still considered by some astrologers to be the coruler of cline a person toward sarcasm, argumentativeness, cold-
Scorpio, a sign that it once ruled entirely. (Scorpio is now ness, and deceit.
ruled by the planet Pluto, discovered in 1930, and Mars’s
rulership of this sign has greatly diminished.)  When Mars is MERIDIAN In a horoscope, the line that intersects the cir-
prominent in a birth chart, the native tends to be active, en- cle from north to south and divides the circle into a left-
terprising, courageous, and passionate. Mars’s influence can hand side and a right-hand side. The line of the meridian
also incline a person toward impatience, anger, strife, and in a horoscope connects the Nadir and the Midheaven.
accident-proneness.

MIDHEAVEN (Also known as Medium Coeli, “middle of
MASCULINE SIGNS The signs of the zodiac belonging to the heavens”; abbreviated in charts as M.C.) One of the

the fire and air triplicities, namely, Aries, Gemini, Leo, Li- four angles in a horoscope (the four most important
bra, Sagittarius, and Aquarius. In astrology, masculine points in a chart). The Midheaven, which marks the cusp
signs are characterized as energetic, outer-directed, and of the Tenth House, is the point in a birth chart directly
strong through action. opposite the Nadir. The Midheaven represents ambition,

ideals, and public image. Planets at or near the Midheaven
MEDICAL ASTROLOGY Astrology applied to questions indicate that the native is likely to make a mark on the

of health, well-being, nutrition, and susceptibility to cer- outside world.
tain illnesses and diseases. Down through history astrol-
ogy has been used as a tool in medicine. The signs of the

4 1 4 • A n  A s t r o l o g e r’s  L e x i c o n



MODERN PLANETS Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto, referred NADIR (Also known as Imum Coeli, “lowest part of the
to as modern because of their relatively recent discovery. heavens”; abbreviated in charts as I.C.) One of the four
Uranus was discovered in 1781, Neptune in 1846, and angles in a horoscope (the four most important points in
Pluto in 1930. a chart). The Nadir, which marks the cusp of the Fourth

House, is the point in a birth chart directly opposite the
MOON In astrology the Moon represents emotions, in- Midheaven. The Nadir represents a person’s beginnings

stincts, sensitivity, and the unconscious. It is often called and psychological roots: parents, home life, and what he
the feminine principle. The sign that the Moon was tran- or she inherits from previous generations. Planets at or
siting at the time of birth, known as the Moon sign, is a near the Nadir indicate the unconscious motivation be-
most pervasive influence in a birth chart, second only in hind the native’s actions.
importance to the Sun sign. The Moon sign signifies the
emotional, spontaneous, unconscious, and often hidden NATAL CHART See Birth Chart.
part of the personality. In the zodiac, the Moon rules the
sign of Cancer. NEPTUNE In astrology Neptune is the planet of mystery, il-

lusion, imagination, and mysticism. Neptune, discovered in
MUNDANE ASTROLOGY (From the Latin word mundus, 1846, is the second of our modern planets. It rules the sign

meaning “the world”) The branch of astrology that as- of Pisces (which was traditionally ruled by Jupiter). When
sesses and forecasts world events, political movements, na- Neptune is prominent in a birth chart, the native tends to
tional occurrences, and cultural trends according to the be artistic, visionary and clairvoyant, and interested in spiri-
planetary cycles. tual matters. Neptune’s influence can also incline a person

toward escapism, difficulty in separating fantasy from real-
MUTABLE One of the three qualities under which the signs ity, and psychic problems.

of the zodiac are classified. The three qualities are cardinal,
fixed, and mutable. Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, and Pisces NODES The two points, north and south, where the orbit of
are the mutable signs and comprise the mutable quadru- the Moon or any of the planets intersects the ecliptic (the
plicity. In astrology, the mutable quality signifies adapt- path of the Sun). Nodes usually refer to the Moon’s nodes,
ability, versatility, openness to change, and flexibility. called lunar nodes. In classical astrology, the north node

(also called ascending node) was known as Caput Draco-
MUTUAL RECEPTION In a horoscope, a term used to de- nis, meaning “Dragon’s Head,” and the south node (also

scribe the relationship between two planets when each is called descending node) was known as Cauda Draconis,
located in the sign that the other one rules. For example, if meaning “Dragon’s Tail.” This referred to the imagery of a
in a birth chart the Sun is in Libra and Venus is in Leo, the giant celestial dragon swallowing the Moon during its
Sun and Venus are in mutual reception. This “visiting of eclipses. In a birth chart, lunar nodes mark sensitive
each other’s home” strengthens the power of the two plan- points, but there is much discussion currently among as-
ets, for they work in cooperation with each other. trologers as to their exact meaning. Generally, the north

A n  E x p l a nat i o n  o f Te r m s • 4 1 5



node denotes the positive qualities with which you enter the longitude of the Ascendant is added to the longitude
this life, and the south node the negative behavior you need of the Moon, and the longitude of the Sun is subtracted
to release. Some astrologers feel that the Moon’s nodes per- from that sum. The Part of Fortune in a birth chart is still
tain to relationships—the north node to forming ties and considered by modern astrologers to be indicative of ease
the south node to dissolving them. and good fortune. The activities of the sign and house in

which the Part of Fortune appears are those in which the
OPPOSITION One of the major aspects, in which two or native finds success.

more planets are opposite each other in a horoscope, i.e.,
separated by 180° (or within 9° either way of 180°). The PISCES The twelfth sign of the zodiac, which the Sun tran-
traditional view of an opposition in a chart is that it is an sits each year from approximately February 19 to March
unharmonious aspect, one that produces tension and con- 20. Pisces has as its element water and is mutable in qual-
flict. The modern view is that an opposition also brings ity. The sign is symbolized by Two Fishes and is ruled by
challenge for growth and achievement, because the native the planet Neptune. Pisces natives are characterized as
must work through his or her problems and conflicts and emotional, romantic, impressionable and adaptable,
thus gain maturity. highly imaginative, and intuitive.

ORB (Also known as orb of influence) The slight variation PLANET (From the Greek word planetes, meaning “wan-
in degrees within which an aspect is considered potent. For derer”) One of the heavenly bodies (except comets and
example, a trine is an aspect in which planets are 120° meteors) that move around the Sun. From ancient times
apart. An exact trine is 120°; the allowable orb for a trine is planets have been distinguished by their movement across
9° either way of 120°. This means that if two planets are as the face of the fixed stars. In astrology, the word planets
few as 111° apart or as many as 129° apart, the trine is still also includes the Sun and the Moon (traditionally called
effective in the horoscope. luminaries). In classical astrology there were seven planets:

Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn.
ORBIT The path of any heavenly body in its revolution Modern astrology has added three new planets discovered

around another heavenly body. In our solar system, the in the last two centuries: Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto. Each
Earth and planets describe orbits around the Sun. The planet rules one (and in some cases two) astrological signs.
Earth’s orbit around the Sun is called the ecliptic. The The science of astrology is based on the premise that the
ecliptic is also known as the path of the Sun around the movements of the planets significantly relate to human
Earth, but in reality it is the Earth that is orbiting around events, behavior, and personality. A horoscope is a chart of
the Sun. the positions of the planets at a given moment in time.

PART OF FORTUNE (Also known by its Latin name, Pars PLUTO In astrology Pluto is the planet of regenerative
Fortuna) A point in a horoscope, arrived at by the calcula- forces, of destruction, annihilation, and transformation.
tion of an ancient Arabic mathematical formula in which Pluto, discovered in 1930, is the third of our modern plan-

4 1 6 • A n  A s t r o l o g e r’s  L e x i c o n



ets. It rules the sign of Scorpio (which was traditionally QUADRANT (From the Latin word quadrans, meaning “a
ruled by Mars). Pluto spends a great many years transiting fourth”) One of the four quarters of the horoscope circle.
each sign of the zodiac, and its influence is more obvious Each quadrant of the horoscope contains three houses. In
on a whole generation of people than on a single individ- a birth chart, a preponderance of planets in any of the
ual. However, when Pluto is prominent in a horoscope, the four quadrants has specific meanings and interpretations,
native’s life will show marked reversal or change. Pluto depending on which quadrants are heavily populated.
also exhibits its power in a person’s need to dominate and
control. Its positive influence is seen in great leaders; its QUADRUPLICITY A group of four astrological signs be-
negative influence is seen in dictators, mobsters, and mur- longing to the same quality. There are three quadruplici-
derers. ties in the zodiac: the cardinal quadruplicity (Aries, Can-

cer, Libra, Capricorn); the fixed quadruplicity (Taurus,
POLARITY A group of two astrological signs, each sign op- Leo, Scorpio, Aquarius); the mutable quadruplicity (Gem-

posite in the zodiac to the other sign; for example, Aries and ini, Virgo, Sagittarius, Pisces).
Libra are a polarity. Also, the opposite sign in the zodiac; for
example, Aquarius is Leo’s polarity. QUALITIES The three kinds of energy under which signs of

the zodiac are classified. The three qualities are cardinal,
PRECESSION OF THE EQUINOXES The slow, constant fixed, and mutable. Cardinal signs are enterprising, active,

shift of the vernal and autumnal equinoxes backward initiating. Fixed signs are persistent, determined, and re-
through the signs of the zodiac, caused by the earth’s rota- sourceful. Mutable signs are versatile, adaptable, and flexi-
tional tilt as it spins on its axis. The time span that it takes ble.
the vernal equinox to move through one sign, approxi-
mately 2,150 years, is known as an Astrological Age. Sidereal QUINCUNX One of the minor aspects, in which two or
astrology is based on the theory that the dates of the Sun’s more planets in a birth chart are 150° apart (or within 2°
entrance into each zodiacal sign should change along with either way of 150°). The quincunx was originally classified
the earth’s shift in position. (See Age, Astrological. See also as mildly adverse; some modern astrologers think it more
Sidereal Astrology.) powerful than at first regarded.

PROGRESSED HOROSCOPE A special chart cast for a RECTIFICATION The art of correcting a birth chart of
specific date in the future and used in combination with unknown or uncertain birth time, using as guideposts ma-
the native’s birth chart to predict and assess future trends jor events in the life of the native and/or dominant per-
and events. The most popular method of progressing a sonality traits that correspond to planetary aspects govern-
chart is the day-for-a-year formula, in which a horoscope ing such events and traits.
is cast for a date that is as many days following a birth date
as the years following a birth date that the person wishes RETROGRADE The apparent backward motion of a planet
to see. traveling through the zodiac. (The Sun and Moon are

never retrograde.) In reality, planets in our solar system do

A n  E x p l a nat i o n  o f Te r m s • 4 1 7



not move backward in their orbits; they only seem to do Aquarius ruled by Uranus (traditionally ruled by Saturn)
so because of the angle of observation here on earth. Ret- Pisces ruled by Neptune (traditionally ruled by Jupiter)
rograde motion is an illusion similar to looking through
the window of a moving train at a second train that is 2. In a birth chart, the planet that rules the Rising sign
traveling alongside it but moving more slowly. The slower- (Ascendant) is said to be the ruling planet of the chart.
moving train will seem to be traveling backward, although
in fact it is traveling forward. In classical astrology a retro- SAGITTARIUS The ninth sign of the zodiac, which the Sun
grade planet was considered weak and as having a nega- transits each year from approximately November 22 to De-
tive influence. Modern astrologers consider retrograde cember 21. Sagittarius has as its element fire and is mutable
planets in a chart to be positive but as having an influence in quality. The sign is symbolized by the Archer and ruled
that does not manifest itself until later in life. by the planet Jupiter. Sagittarius natives are characterized as

freedom-loving, expansive, seekers of knowledge, and open
RISING SIGN The sign of the zodiac that was rising on the to new ideas and exploration.

eastern horizon at the moment of birth. The Rising sign
(or Ascendant) characterizes a person’s outward approach SATURN In astrology Saturn is the planet of discipline, re-
to life. (See also Ascendant.) sponsibility, restriction, and limitation. The planet has been

called the Celestial Taskmaster. Saturn rules the sign of
RULER (Also known as ruling planet) 1. The planet that has Capricorn, and at one time also ruled Aquarius. (Aquarius

dominion over a specific astrological sign, for example, is now ruled by the planet Uranus, discovered in 1781.)
Mars is the ruler of Aries. In classical astrology rulership When Saturn is prominent in a birth chart the native tends
of the twelve signs was divided among seven planets. Since to be diligent, determined, reliable, and industrious. Sat-
the eighteenth century three signs have been reassigned to urn’s influence can also incline a person toward pessimism,
the three modern planets. The list of rulerships is as fol- inflexibility, and selfishness.
lows:

SCORPIO The eighth sign of the zodiac, which the Sun
Aries ruled by Mars transits each year from approximately October 23 to No-
Taurus ruled by Venus vember 21. Scorpio has as its element water and is fixed in
Gemini ruled by Mercury quality. The sign is symbolized by the Scorpion and ruled
Cancer ruled by the Moon by the planet Pluto. (Some astrologers still consider Scor-
Leo ruled by the Sun pio’s traditional ruler, Mars, to be its coruler.) Scorpio na-
Virgo ruled by Mercury tives are characterized as sensual and secretive, intensely
Libra ruled by Venus emotional, imaginative, and possessing psychic ability.
Scorpio ruled by Pluto (traditionally ruled by Mars) 
Sagittarius ruled by Jupiter SEMISEXTILE One of the minor aspects, in which two or
Capricorn ruled by Saturn more planets in a birth chart are 30° apart (or within 2°

4 1 8 • A n  A s t r o l o g e r’s  L e x i c o n



either way of 30°). Classified as mildly favorable, much less SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC (Also known as astrological
powerful than a sextile. signs) The twelve 30° segments of the zodiac, namely:

Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio,
SEMISQUARE One of the minor aspects, in which two or Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius, and Pisces. The signs of

more planets in a birth chart are 45° apart (or within 2° the zodiac are based on the band of constellations in the
either way of 45°). Classified as mildly adverse, less power- heavens through which the Sun travels on its apparent
ful than a square. yearly journey around the earth. Unlike the actual con-

stellations in the sky, the signs are of equal size and
SESQUISQUARE (Also known as Sesquiquadrate) One of marked by definite 30° boundaries.

the minor aspects, in which two or more planets in a birth
chart are 135° apart (or within 2° either way of 135°). SOLAR CHART A horoscope in which the Sun sign is also
Classified as mildly adverse, similar in influence to a semi- considered to be the Rising sign (Ascendant). This horo-
square. scope is used when the birth time is unknown. In a solar

chart the Sun sign also becomes the First House, and thus
SEXTILE One of the major aspects, in which two or more the houses placed around the chart are known as solar

planets in a birth chart are 60° apart (or within 6° either houses. For many astrologers a solar chart is a useful horo-
way of 60°). Classified by both ancient and modern as- scope that enables one to look at the overall pattern of a
trologers as harmonious and favorable. A sextile brings personality and to ascertain general trends, especially
opportunity, but the native must make an effort in order when used in combination with a natal chart. (See also
to realize its benefits. Birth Chart.)

SIDEREAL ASTROLOGY (From the Latin word sidus, SOLAR RETURN CHART A horoscope cast for the mo-
meaning “star”) A school of astrology that bases its zodiac ment in which the Sun returns to the exact degree it occu-
on the actual star groupings, or constellations, intersected pied at the moment of birth. A solar return chart is used
by the ecliptic. Because of the Earth’s slow, constant tilt as to assess and predict trends and events in the native’s life
it turns on its axis, the vernal and autumnal equinoxes during the coming year.
slowly travel through the constellations of the zodiac—a
phenomenon known as the precession of the equinoxes. SOLSTICES (From the Latin words sol, meaning “Sun” and
Siderealists believe that the Sun’s entrance into the signs of sistere, meaning “to stand still”) The two points during the
the zodiac should be based on the precession of the year when the Sun is at its farthest distance from the celes-
equinoxes, and therefore their zodiac slowly changes along tial equator. Upon reaching these points the Sun appears
with the Earth’s shift in position. Thus, a person born in to stand still. The summer solstice occurs when the Sun
Aries according to traditional (tropical) astrology, would enters the sign of Cancer, and this is the longest day of the
be currently regarded by siderealists as a native of Pisces. year. The winter solstice occurs when the Sun enters the

sign of Capricorn, and this is the shortest day of the year.

A n  E x p l a nat i o n  o f Te r m s • 4 1 9



SQUARE One of the major aspects, in which two or more trology. Daily newspaper horoscopes and many widely-read
planets in a birth chart are 90° apart (or within 9° either books are based entirely on Sun signs.
way of 90°). Originally classified as malefic, squares are
now considered by modern astrologers to be indicative of TABLE OF HOUSES A table used in plotting a birth chart
conflict or challenge that spurs the native to build charac- that shows the signs and degrees of the Houses to be placed
ter. around the horoscope wheel for different latitudes (of

birthplace) and birth times. There are various tables of
STATIONARY The apparent unmoving or standing-still po- Houses for the different House systems in use.

sition of a planet in orbit just prior to its reversing from
direct motion to retrograde motion, or from retrograde TAURUS The second sign of the zodiac, which the Sun
motion to direct motion. Like retrograde motion, the sta- transits each year from approximately April 20 to May 20.
tionary position of a planet is an illusion due to the angle Taurus has as its element earth and is fixed in quality. The
of observation from the Earth. In a birth chart, stationary sign is symbolized by the Bull and ruled by the planet
planets are considered very strong in their influence. (See Venus. Taurus natives are characterized as practical, deter-
also Direct and Retrograde.) mined, artistic and loving, stubborn and resistant to

change.
SUCCEDENT (From the Latin word succedere, meaning “to

follow”) The four Houses in a horoscope that immediately TRANSIT (From the Latin word transitus, meaning “the act
follow Angular Houses. Succedent Houses are the Second, of going across”) 1. The passage of the Sun, Moon, or
Fifth, Eighth, and Eleventh Houses. In a birth chart, plan- planet through a sign of the zodiac, for example, the tran-
ets in any of these houses indicate that the native has sit of Venus through Aries.
strong willpower and fixity of purpose. 2. The passage of the Sun, Moon, or planet through

the same position it or another planet occupies in a horo-
SUN In astrology the Sun represents the ego, individuality, scope. For example, if in a birth chart the Sun were at 15°

the power of self, and the conscious will. The sign that the Aries and next month Jupiter is to be in 15° Aries, this
Sun was transiting at the time of birth, known as the Sun Jupiter transit next month augurs a fortunate financial
sign, is the most pervasive influence in a birth chart. The trend for the native of the chart.
Sun sign governs a person’s distinctive style and drive to
fulfill his or her goals. In many ways the Sun sign deter- TRINE One of the major aspects, in which two or more plan-
mines how the world regards the native. In the zodiac, the ets in a birth chart are 120° apart (or within 9° either way
Sun rules the sign of Leo. of 120°). A trine is the most beneficial and harmonious as-

pect, bringing advantage and ease. Many astrologers feel,
SUN SIGN ASTROLOGY A term used to describe the however, that trines may be conducive to complacency or

form of astrology that concerns itself solely with Sun signs. laziness, because the native does not have to make sufficient
This is, of course, an oversimplification of the science of as- effort in order to realize success.

4 2 0 • A n  A s t r o l o g e r’s  L e x i c o n



TRIPLICITY A group of three astrological signs all belong- VIRGO The sixth sign of the zodiac, which the Sun transits
ing to the same element. There are four triplicities in the each year from approximately August 23 to September 22.
zodiac: the fire triplicity (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius); the earth Virgo has as its element earth and is mutable in quality.
triplicity (Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn); the air triplicity The sign is symbolized by the Virgin and ruled by the
(Gemini, Libra, Aquarius); and the water triplicity (Can- planet Mercury. Virgo natives are characterized as indus-
cer, Scorpio, Pisces). trious, discriminating, logical and analytical, intellectual,

and having a tendency to be critical.
T-SQUARE An unusual aspect-pattern in a birth chart that

consists of three planets, two of them in opposition to WATER One of the four elements (fire, earth, air, and water)
each other and the third halfway between the two (thus under which signs of the zodiac are classified. Cancer,
forming a square to each of the two planets). A T-square Scorpio, and Pisces are the water signs and comprise the
can be a difficult influence in a birth chart, signifying ten- water triplicity. In astrology, water signifies emotion,
sion, obstruction, and conflict. However, it is an energizing imagination, sensitivity, and spirituality.
influence that motivates the native to fight and to resolve
problems. A T-square appears in many charts of famous ZODIAC (From the Greek word zodiakos, meaning “circle of
men and women. animals”) A narrow band of the heavens circling the Earth

that is divided into twelve signs: Aries, Taurus, Gemini,
URANUS In astrology Uranus is the planet of change, origi- Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn,

nality, upheaval, and revolution. Uranus, discovered in Aquarius, and Pisces. These signs correspond to the twelve
1781, is the first of our modern planets. It rules the sign of constellations (groups of stars) of the same name that are
Aquarius (which was traditionally ruled by Saturn). When contained within this narrow band of the zodiac, but the
Uranus is prominent in a birth chart the native tends to be signs and the constellations are not the same. Whereas the
inventive, independent, and of an unconventional turn of constellations are of different sizes, the signs of the zodiac
mind. Uranus’s influence can also incline a person toward are equal segments of 30° each, forming a complete 360°
eccentricity, rebelliousness, and fanaticism. circle. The center of the zodiac band is marked by the path

of the Sun (the ecliptic). The Sun, Moon, and all the plan-
VENUS In astrology Venus is the planet of love, affection, ets except Pluto orbit within the circle of the zodiac.

art, beauty, esthetics, and pleasure. Venus rules the two
signs of Taurus and Libra. When Venus is prominent in a
birth chart the native tends to be friendly, flirtatious, and
socially adept, and to possess great personal charm.
Venus’s influence can also incline a person toward fickle-
ness, extravagance and overindulgence, vanity and narcis-
sism.

A n  E x p l a nat i o n  o f Te r m s • 4 2 1






8
Part Seven

ASTROLOGICAL TABLES FOR
THE YEARS 1900–2100






8
What Is Your Exact Sun Sign?

The Sun travels through each sign of the zodiac at If your birthday falls earlier in the month than that day, the
approximately the same time every year. The dates on beginning of your Sun sign is in the previous month. If your

which the Sun enters and leaves each sign are those that you birthday falls after the day on which the Sun moved into a
usually see published in books and newspapers. For example, new sign, that new sign is your Sun sign.
you may read that the Sun is in the sign of Aries each year
from March 21 through April 19. Example: You were born on August 4, 1970. Find the col-

However, these dates are not exact. Some years the Sun will umn marked 1970, and place a ruler along the line marked
enter or leave a sign one or two days before or after the dates AUG. You will see that the Sun moved into Virgo on the 23rd
you see published. This is because the Sun does not travel at of August in 1970. Since you were born on the 4th of August,
the exact same speed year in and year out. There are slight look at the previous month to find the Sun’s position. You
changes in its forward motion due to the position of the will see that the Sun moved into Leo on the 23rd of July and
Earth. Also, at certain times of the year the Sun travels faster did not move into Virgo until the 23rd of August. Therefore,
than at other times (for example, the Sun is traveling four your Sun sign is Leo.
minutes faster per day in early January than in early Example: You were born on October 29, 1980. Find the col-
June). umn marked 1980, and place a ruler along the line marked

These variations are minor, but even the difference of a OCT. You will see that the Sun moved into Scorpio on the 23rd
day or two may cause confusion for the thousands of people of October in 1980. Since you were born on the 29th of Octo-
whose birthdays fall near the beginning or end of a zodiacal ber, your Sun sign is Scorpio.
sign.* Example: You were born on January 20, 1963. Find the

The following Sun Tables will show you your exact Sun column marked 1963, and place a ruler along the line marked
sign. To use these tables, all you need to do is look up the year JAN. You will see that the Sun moved into Aquarius on the
and month of your birthday. You will see exactly what day of 20th of January in 1963. Your Sun sign, therefore, is Aquarius.
that month the Sun moved into a particular astrological sign.

*If your birthday falls into this category, you should definitely use the enclosed CD-ROM. It will tell you your exact Sun sign (and the exact degree of
this sign your Sun is in). You are known as having been “born on the cusp.” Read more about yourself and your special qualities in the section on Cusps
(beginning on page 159).

S u n  Ta b l e s • 4 2 5



1900    1901    1902    1903    1904    1905    1906    1907    1908    1909    1910    1911    1912    1913    1914 
JAN  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  21 AQU  21 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  21 AQU  21 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  21 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  
FEB  18 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  
MAR  20 ARI  21 ARI  21 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  21 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  21 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  21 ARI  
APR  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  21 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  21 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  21 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  
MAY  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  22 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  22 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  22 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  
JUN  21 CAN  21 CAN  22 CAN  22 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  22 CAN  22 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  22 CAN  22 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  22 CAN  
JUL  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  
AUG  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  24 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  24 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  24 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  
SEP  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  24 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  24 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  24 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  
OCT  23 SCO  23 SCO  24 SCO  24 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  24 SCO  24 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  24 SCO  24 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  24 SCO  
NOV  22 SAG  22 SAG  23 SAG  23 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  23 SAG  23 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  23 SAG  23 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  
DEC  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  

1915    1916    1917    1918    1919    1920    1921    1922    1923    1924    1925    1926    1927    1928    1929
JAN  20 AQU  21 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  21 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  21 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  21 AQU  20 AQU  
FEB  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  
MAR  21 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  21 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  
APR  21 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  
MAY  22 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  
JUN  22 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  22 CAN  22 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  22 CAN  22 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  22 CAN  22 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  
JUL  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  
AUG  24 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  24 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  24 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  24 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  
SEP  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  
OCT  24 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  24 SCO  24 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  24 SCO  24 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  24 SCO  24 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  
NOV  23 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  23 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  23 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  23 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  
DEC  22 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  

1930    1931    1932    1933    1934    1935    1936    1937    1938    1939    1940    1941    1942    1943    1944
JAN  20 AQU  20 AQU  21 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  21 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  21 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  21 AQU  
FEB  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  
MAR  21 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  
APR  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  
MAY  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  
JUN  21 CAN  22 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  22 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  22 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  22 CAN  21 CAN  
JUL  23 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  
AUG  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  
SEP  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  
OCT  23 SCO  24 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  24 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  24 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  24 SCO  23 SCO  
NOV  22 SAG  23 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  23 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  23 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  23 SAG  22 SAG  
DEC  22 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  

1945    1946    1947    1948    1949    1950    1951    1952    1953    1954    1955    1956    1957    1958    1959
JAN  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  
FEB  18 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  
MAR  20 ARI  21 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  
APR  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  
MAY  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  
JUN  21 CAN  21 CAN  22 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  22 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  22 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  
JUL  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  
AUG  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  
SEP  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  
OCT  23 SCO  23 SCO  24 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  24 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  24 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  24 SCO  
NOV  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  
DEC  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  

1960    1961    1962    1963    1964    1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974
JAN  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  
FEB  19 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  
MAR  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  
APR  19 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  
MAY  20 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  
JUN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  
JUL  22 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  
AUG  22 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  
SEP  22 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  
OCT  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  
NOV  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  
DEC  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  

4 2 6 • S u n  Ta b l e s



1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
JAN  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  
FEB  19 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  
MAR  21 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  21 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  
APR  20 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  
MAY  21 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  
JUN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  
JUL  23 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  
AUG  23 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  
SEP  23 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  
OCT  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  
NOV  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  
DEC  22 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  

1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
JAN  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  
FEB  18 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  
MAR  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  
APR  20 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  
MAY  21 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  
JUN  21 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  
JUL  22 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  
AUG  23 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  
SEP  23 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  
OCT  23 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  
NOV  22 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  
DEC  21 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  

2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014    2015    2016    2017    2018    2019
JAN  19 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  
FEB  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  
MAR  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  
APR  19 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  
MAY  20 GEM  21 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  
JUN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  
JUL  22 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  23 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  
AUG  22 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  23 VIR  
SEP  22 LIB  23 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  
OCT  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  
NOV  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  
DEC  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 CAP  

2020    2021    2022    2023    2024    2025    2026    2027    2028    2029    2030    2031    2032    2033    2034
JAN  20 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  
FEB  19 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  19 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  
MAR  19 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  
APR  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  
MAY  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  
JUN  20 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  
JUL  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  
AUG  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  
SEP  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  23 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  
OCT  22 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  
NOV  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  
DEC  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  

2035    2036    2037    2038    2039    2040    2041    2042    2043    2044    2045    2046    2047    2048    2049
JAN  20 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  
FEB  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  
MAR  20 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  
APR  20 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  20 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  
MAY  21 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  21 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  
JUN  21 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  
JUL  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  21 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  21 LEO  22 LEO  
AUG  23 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  23 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  
SEP  23 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  
OCT  23 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  
NOV  22 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  
DEC  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  

S u n  Ta b l e s • 4 2 7



2050    2051    2052    2053    2054    2055    2056    2057    2058    2059    2060    2061    2062    2063    2064
JAN  19 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  
FEB  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  17 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  
MAR  20 ARI  20 ARI  19 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  19 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  19 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  19 ARI  
APR  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  
MAY  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  
JUN  20 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  
JUL  22 LEO  22 LEO  21 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  21 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  21 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  21 LEO  
AUG  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  
SEP  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  
OCT  23 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  
NOV  21 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  
DEC  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  20 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  20 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  20 CAP  

2065    2066    2067    2068    2069    2070    2071    2072    2073    2074    2075    2076    2077    2078    2079
JAN  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  20 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  
FEB  17 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  17 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  17 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  17 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  
MAR  19 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  19 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  19 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  19 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  
APR  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  
MAY  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  19 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  19 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  
JUN  20 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  
JUL  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  21 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  21 LEO  21 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  21 LEO  21 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  
AUG  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  
SEP  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  21 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  21 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  
OCT  22 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  
NOV  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG  
DEC  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  20 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  20 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  20 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  

2080    2081    2082    2083    2084    2085    2086    2087    2088    2089    2090    2091    2092    2093    2094
JAN  20 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  
FEB  18 PIS  17 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  17 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  17 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS  17 PIS  17 PIS  
MAR  19 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI  19 ARI  19 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  19 ARI  19 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  19 ARI  19 ARI  19 ARI  
APR  18 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  18 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  18 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  18 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  
MAY  19 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  19 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  19 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  19 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  
JUN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  
JUL  21 LEO  21 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  21 LEO  21 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  21 LEO  21 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  21 LEO  21 LEO  22 LEO  
AUG  21 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  21 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  21 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  21 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  
SEP  21 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  21 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  21 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  21 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  
OCT  22 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  
NOV  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  
DEC  20 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  20 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  20 CAP  20 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  20 CAP  20 CAP  21 CAP  

2095    2096    2097    2098    2099    2100    
JAN  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU  19 AQU          
FEB  18 PIS  18 PIS  17 PIS  17 PIS  18 PIS  18 PIS          
MAR  20 ARI  19 ARI  19 ARI  19 ARI  20 ARI  20 ARI          
APR  19 TAU  18 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU  19 TAU          
MAY  20 GEM  19 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM  20 GEM          
JUN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  20 CAN  21 CAN          
JUL  22 LEO  21 LEO  21 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO  22 LEO          
AUG  22 VIR  21 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 VIR          
SEP  22 LIB  21 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 LIB          
OCT  22 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  22 SCO  23 SCO          
NOV  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 SAG          
DEC  21 CAP  20 CAP  20 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 CAP        

4 2 8 • S u n  Ta b l e s




What Is Your Moon Sign?

The Mo on moves very quickly, traveling through Capricorn. Since you were born on the 7th of September,
all twelve signs of the zodiac approximately every your Moon sign is Sagittarius.

twenty-nine days. This means that the Moon spends, on
the average, about two and a half days in each sign. However, if in these Moon tables you see that your

The following Moon Tables will help you to locate your birthday falls on a day on which the Moon moved into a
Moon sign. Find your year of birth, then locate the col- new sign, the question is what time of day did the Moon
umn for your birthday month. The tables list for your change signs. The Moon travels fast, and if it changed
month every date on which the Moon moved into a new signs on your birthday the possibility exists that you were
sign. born at an hour when the Moon was in the previous sign.

Example: You were born September 7, 1962. Find the To find out your exact Moon sign, you should definitely
year 1962 and the column marked SEP. You will see that use the enclosed CD-ROM. It will tell you your exact
on the 5th of September in 1962 the Moon moved into Moon sign—and the exact degree of this sign your Moon
Sagittarius, and on the 8th of September it moved into is in.

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 2 9



1900
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 AQU   1 PIS   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP   1 PIS   1 ARI  
4 PIS   3 ARI   4 TAU   3 GEM   5 LEO   3 VIR   3 LIB   5 SAG   3 CAP   3 AQU   3 ARI   3 TAU  
6 ARI   5 TAU   6 GEM   5 CAN   7 VIR   6 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   5 AQU   5 PIS   5 TAU   5 GEM  
8 TAU   7 GEM   9 CAN   7 LEO  10 LIB   8 SCO   8 SAG   9 AQU   7 PIS   7 ARI   7 GEM   7 CAN  

11 GEM   9 CAN  11 LEO  10 VIR  12 SCO  11 SAG  10 CAP  11 PIS   9 ARI   9 TAU   9 CAN   9 LEO  
13 CAN  12 LEO  14 VIR  12 LIB  14 SAG  13 CAP  13 AQU  13 ARI  11 TAU  11 GEM  12 LEO  11 VIR  
15 LEO  14 VIR  16 LIB  15 SCO  17 CAP  15 AQU  15 PIS  15 TAU  13 GEM  13 CAN  14 VIR  14 LIB  
18 VIR  17 LIB  19 SCO  17 SAG  19 AQU  17 PIS  17 ARI  17 GEM  16 CAN  15 LEO  17 LIB  16 SCO  
21 LIB  19 SCO  21 SAG  20 CAP  21 PIS  19 ARI  19 TAU  19 CAN  18 LEO  18 VIR  19 SCO  19 SAG  
23 SCO  22 SAG  23 CAP  22 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  21 GEM  22 LEO  21 VIR  20 LIB  22 SAG  21 CAP  
25 SAG  24 CAP  25 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  24 GEM  23 CAN  24 VIR  23 LIB  23 SCO  24 CAP  24 AQU  
28 CAP  26 AQU  28 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  26 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  26 SCO  25 SAG  26 AQU  26 PIS  
30 AQU  28 PIS  30 ARI  28 TAU  30 CAN  28 LEO  28 VIR  29 SCO  28 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  28 ARI  

30 GEM                  31 LIB                  30 AQU          30 TAU  

1901
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 GEM   2 LEO   1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR  
3 CAN   4 VIR   3 VIR   5 SCO   5 SAG   3 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   4 GEM   3 CAN   4 VIR   4 LIB  
5 LEO   7 LIB   6 LIB   7 SAG   7 CAP   6 AQU   5 PIS   6 TAU   6 CAN   6 LEO   7 LIB   6 SCO  
8 VIR   9 SCO   8 SCO  10 CAP   9 AQU   8 PIS   7 ARI   8 GEM   8 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO   9 SAG  

10 LIB  12 SAG  11 SAG  12 AQU  12 PIS  10 ARI   9 TAU  10 CAN  11 VIR  10 LIB  12 SAG  11 CAP  
13 SCO  14 CAP  13 CAP  14 PIS  14 ARI  12 TAU  12 GEM  12 LEO  13 LIB  13 SCO  14 CAP  14 AQU  
15 SAG  16 AQU  16 AQU  16 ARI  16 TAU  14 GEM  14 CAN  14 VIR  16 SCO  15 SAG  17 AQU  16 PIS  
18 CAP  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  16 CAN  16 LEO  17 LIB  18 SAG  18 CAP  19 PIS  18 ARI  
20 AQU  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  18 LEO  18 VIR  19 SCO  21 CAP  20 AQU  21 ARI  21 TAU  
22 PIS  22 TAU  22 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  21 VIR  20 LIB  22 SAG  23 AQU  23 PIS  23 TAU  23 GEM  
24 ARI  25 GEM  24 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  23 LIB  23 SCO  24 CAP  25 PIS  25 ARI  25 GEM  25 CAN  
26 TAU  27 CAN  26 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  26 SCO  25 SAG  27 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  
28 GEM          28 LEO  29 LIB  29 SCO  28 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  29 TAU  29 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  
31 CAN          31 VIR                          30 AQU  31 ARI          31 CAN          31 LIB  

1902
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
3 SCO   1 SAG   1 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS   3 TAU   2 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR   3 SCO   2 SAG   1 CAP  
5 SAG   4 CAP   3 CAP   4 PIS   4 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN   4 VIR   3 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP   4 AQU  
8 CAP   6 AQU   6 AQU   7 ARI   6 TAU   7 CAN   6 LEO   7 LIB   5 SCO   8 CAP   7 AQU   6 PIS  

10 AQU   9 PIS   8 PIS   9 TAU   8 GEM   9 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO   8 SAG  10 AQU   9 PIS   9 ARI  
12 PIS  11 ARI  10 ARI  11 GEM  10 CAN  11 VIR  10 LIB  12 SAG  10 CAP  13 PIS  11 ARI  11 TAU  
15 ARI  13 TAU  12 TAU  13 CAN  12 LEO  13 LIB  13 SCO  14 CAP  13 AQU  15 ARI  13 TAU  13 GEM  
17 TAU  15 GEM  14 GEM  15 LEO  14 VIR  15 SCO  15 SAG  17 AQU  15 PIS  17 TAU  16 GEM  15 CAN  
19 GEM  17 CAN  17 CAN  17 VIR  17 LIB  18 SAG  18 CAP  19 PIS  18 ARI  19 GEM  18 CAN  17 LEO  
21 CAN  19 LEO  19 LEO  20 LIB  19 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  21 CAN  20 LEO  19 VIR  
23 LEO  22 VIR  21 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  23 AQU  23 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  22 VIR  21 LIB  
25 VIR  24 LIB  23 LIB  24 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  25 ARI  26 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  24 SCO  
27 LIB  26 SCO  26 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  28 ARI  27 TAU  28 CAN  26 LEO  28 LIB  26 SCO  26 SAG  
30 SCO          28 SAG  29 AQU  29 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  30 LEO  28 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  29 CAP  

31 CAP          31 ARI          31 CAN          30 LIB                  31 AQU  

1903
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
3 PIS   1 ARI   3 TAU   1 GEM   1 CAN   1 VIR   1 LIB   1 SAG   3 AQU   3 PIS   1 ARI   1 TAU  
5 ARI   4 TAU   5 GEM   3 CAN   3 LEO   3 LIB   3 SCO   4 CAP   5 PIS   5 ARI   4 TAU   3 GEM  
7 TAU   6 GEM   7 CAN   5 LEO   5 VIR   6 SCO   5 SAG   6 AQU   8 ARI   7 TAU   6 GEM   5 CAN  
9 GEM   8 CAN   9 LEO   8 VIR   7 LIB   8 SAG   8 CAP   9 PIS  10 TAU  10 GEM   8 CAN   7 LEO  

11 CAN  10 LEO  11 VIR  10 LIB   9 SCO  10 CAP  10 AQU  11 ARI  12 GEM  12 CAN  10 LEO   9 VIR  
13 LEO  12 VIR  13 LIB  12 SCO  12 SAG  13 AQU  13 PIS  14 TAU  15 CAN  14 LEO  12 VIR  12 LIB  
15 VIR  14 LIB  16 SCO  14 SAG  14 CAP  15 PIS  15 ARI  16 GEM  17 LEO  16 VIR  14 LIB  14 SCO  
18 LIB  16 SCO  18 SAG  17 CAP  17 AQU  18 ARI  18 TAU  18 CAN  19 VIR  18 LIB  17 SCO  16 SAG  
20 SCO  19 SAG  20 CAP  19 AQU  19 PIS  20 TAU  20 GEM  20 LEO  21 LIB  20 SCO  19 SAG  19 CAP  
22 SAG  21 CAP  23 AQU  22 PIS  22 ARI  22 GEM  22 CAN  22 VIR  23 SCO  22 SAG  21 CAP  21 AQU  
25 CAP  24 AQU  25 PIS  24 ARI  24 TAU  24 CAN  24 LEO  24 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  24 AQU  24 PIS  
27 AQU  26 PIS  28 ARI  26 TAU  26 GEM  26 LEO  26 VIR  26 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  26 PIS  26 ARI  
30 PIS  28 ARI  30 TAU  29 GEM  28 CAN  28 VIR  28 LIB  29 SAG  30 AQU  30 PIS  29 ARI  28 TAU  

30 LEO          30 SCO  31 CAP                          31 GEM  

4 3 0 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



1904
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 CAN   2 VIR   1 VIR   1 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS   3 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   1 LIB  
4 LEO   4 LIB   3 LIB   3 SAG   3 CAP   4 PIS   4 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB   3 SCO  
6 VIR   6 SCO   5 SCO   6 CAP   5 AQU   7 ARI   7 TAU   8 CAN   6 LEO   5 VIR   6 SCO   5 SAG  
8 LIB   9 SAG   7 SAG   8 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   9 GEM  10 LEO   8 VIR   7 LIB   8 SAG   8 CAP  

10 SCO  11 CAP   9 CAP  11 PIS  10 ARI  12 GEM  11 CAN  12 VIR  10 LIB   9 SCO  10 CAP  10 AQU  
12 SAG  14 AQU  12 AQU  13 ARI  13 TAU  14 CAN  13 LEO  14 LIB  12 SCO  12 SAG  12 AQU  12 PIS  
15 CAP  16 PIS  14 PIS  16 TAU  15 GEM  16 LEO  15 VIR  16 SCO  14 SAG  14 CAP  15 PIS  15 ARI  
17 AQU  19 ARI  17 ARI  18 GEM  17 CAN  18 VIR  17 LIB  18 SAG  16 CAP  16 AQU  18 ARI  17 TAU  
20 PIS  21 TAU  19 TAU  20 CAN  20 LEO  20 LIB  19 SCO  20 CAP  19 AQU  19 PIS  20 TAU  20 GEM  
22 ARI  23 GEM  22 GEM  22 LEO  22 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  23 AQU  21 PIS  21 ARI  22 GEM  22 CAN  
25 TAU  26 CAN  24 CAN  24 VIR  24 LIB  24 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  
27 GEM  28 LEO  26 LEO  27 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  26 AQU  28 ARI  26 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  26 VIR  
29 CAN          28 VIR  29 SCO  28 SAG  29 AQU  29 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  28 CAN  29 VIR  28 LIB  
31 LEO          30 LIB          30 CAP          31 ARI                  31 LEO          31 SCO  

1905
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 SAG   3 AQU   2 AQU   1 PIS   3 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG   3 AQU   2 PIS  
4 CAP   5 PIS   4 PIS   3 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN   4 LEO   4 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP   5 PIS   5 ARI  
6 AQU   8 ARI   7 ARI   6 TAU   8 CAN   6 LEO   6 VIR   6 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   7 TAU  
9 PIS  10 TAU   9 TAU   8 GEM  10 LEO   8 VIR   8 LIB   8 SAG   9 AQU   9 PIS  10 TAU  10 GEM  

11 ARI  13 GEM  12 GEM  10 CAN  12 VIR  11 LIB  10 SCO  10 CAP  11 PIS  11 ARI  12 GEM  12 CAN  
14 TAU  15 CAN  14 CAN  13 LEO  14 LIB  13 SCO  12 SAG  13 AQU  14 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  15 LEO  
16 GEM  17 LEO  16 LEO  15 VIR  16 SCO  15 SAG  14 CAP  15 PIS  16 TAU  16 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  
18 CAN  19 VIR  19 VIR  17 LIB  18 SAG  17 CAP  16 AQU  18 ARI  19 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  19 LIB  
21 LEO  21 LIB  21 LIB  19 SCO  20 CAP  19 AQU  19 PIS  20 TAU  21 CAN  21 LEO  22 LIB  21 SCO  
23 VIR  23 SCO  22 SCO  21 SAG  23 AQU  21 PIS  21 ARI  23 GEM  24 LEO  23 VIR  24 SCO  23 SAG  
25 LIB  25 SAG  25 SAG  23 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  26 VIR  25 LIB  26 SAG  25 CAP  
27 SCO  27 CAP  27 CAP  25 AQU  28 ARI  26 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  28 LIB  27 SCO  28 CAP  27 AQU  
29 SAG          29 AQU  28 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  29 CAN  29 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  30 PIS  
31 CAP                  30 ARI                  31 LEO  31 LIB          31 CAP                  

1906
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 ARI   2 GEM   2 GEM   1 CAN   3 VIR   1 LIB   1 SCO   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN  
3 TAU   5 CAN   4 CAN   3 LEO   5 LIB   3 SCO   3 SAG   3 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU   5 CAN   5 LEO  
6 GEM   7 LEO   7 LEO   5 VIR   7 SCO   5 SAG   5 CAP   5 PIS   6 TAU   6 GEM   7 LEO   7 VIR  
8 CAN   9 VIR   9 VIR   7 LIB   9 SAG   7 CAP   7 AQU   7 ARI   9 GEM   9 CAN  10 VIR   9 LIB  

11 LEO  12 LIB  11 LIB   9 SCO  11 CAP   9 AQU   9 PIS  10 TAU  11 CAN  11 LEO  12 LIB  12 SCO  
13 VIR  14 SCO  13 SCO  11 SAG  13 AQU  11 PIS  11 ARI  12 GEM  14 LEO  13 VIR  14 SCO  14 SAG  
15 LIB  16 SAG  15 SAG  13 CAP  15 PIS  14 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  16 VIR  16 LIB  16 SAG  16 CAP  
17 SCO  18 CAP  17 CAP  16 AQU  17 ARI  16 TAU  16 GEM  17 LEO  18 LIB  18 SCO  18 CAP  18 AQU  
19 SAG  20 AQU  19 AQU  18 PIS  20 TAU  19 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  20 AQU  20 PIS  
22 CAP  22 PIS  22 PIS  20 ARI  23 GEM  21 CAN  21 LEO  22 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  
24 AQU  25 ARI  24 ARI  23 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  23 VIR  24 SCO  24 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  
26 PIS  27 TAU  26 TAU  25 GEM  28 LEO  26 VIR  26 LIB  26 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 GEM  
28 ARI          29 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  28 LIB  28 SCO  28 CAP  29 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  
31 TAU                  30 LEO                  30 SAG  30 AQU          31 TAU                  

1907
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 LEO   2 LIB   1 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   1 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO  
3 VIR   4 SCO   3 SCO   4 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   3 TAU   5 CAN   4 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO   4 SAG  
6 LIB   6 SAG   6 SAG   6 AQU   5 PIS   6 TAU   6 GEM   7 LEO   6 VIR   6 LIB   6 SAG   6 CAP  
8 SCO   8 CAP   8 CAP   8 PIS   8 ARI   9 GEM   8 CAN  10 VIR   8 LIB   8 SCO   9 CAP   8 AQU  

10 SAG  10 AQU  10 AQU  10 ARI  10 TAU  11 CAN  11 LEO  12 LIB  11 SCO  10 SAG  11 AQU  10 PIS  
12 CAP  13 PIS  12 PIS  13 TAU  12 GEM  14 LEO  14 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  12 CAP  13 PIS  12 ARI  
14 AQU  15 ARI  14 ARI  15 GEM  15 CAN  16 VIR  16 LIB  17 SAG  15 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  
16 PIS  17 TAU  16 TAU  18 CAN  17 LEO  19 LIB  18 SCO  19 CAP  17 AQU  17 PIS  17 TAU  17 GEM  
18 ARI  19 GEM  19 GEM  20 LEO  20 VIR  21 SCO  20 SAG  21 AQU  19 PIS  19 ARI  20 GEM  19 CAN  
21 TAU  22 CAN  21 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  23 SAG  22 CAP  23 PIS  21 ARI  21 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  
23 GEM  24 LEO  24 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  23 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  
26 CAN  27 VIR  26 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  
28 LEO          29 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  30 GEM  28 CAN  28 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  
31 VIR          31 SCO          31 AQU          31 TAU                  31 VIR          31 SAG  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 3 1



1908
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 CAP   1 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   3 LEO   2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   2 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI  
4 AQU   3 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   4 CAN   5 VIR   5 LIB   4 SCO   5 CAP   4 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU  
6 PIS   5 ARI   5 TAU   6 CAN   6 LEO   8 LIB   7 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   6 GEM  
8 ARI   7 TAU   8 GEM   9 LEO   9 VIR  10 SCO  10 SAG   8 CAP   9 PIS   8 ARI   9 GEM   8 CAN  

11 TAU   9 GEM  10 CAN  11 VIR  11 LIB  12 SAG  12 CAP  10 AQU  11 ARI  10 TAU  11 CAN  11 LEO  
13 GEM  12 CAN  13 LEO  14 LIB  14 SCO  14 CAP  14 AQU  12 PIS  13 TAU  12 GEM  13 LEO  13 VIR  
16 CAN  14 LEO  15 VIR  16 SCO  16 SAG  16 AQU  16 PIS  14 ARI  15 GEM  15 CAN  16 VIR  16 LIB  
18 LEO  17 VIR  18 LIB  19 SAG  18 CAP  18 PIS  18 ARI  16 TAU  17 CAN  17 LEO  18 LIB  18 SCO  
21 VIR  19 LIB  20 SCO  21 CAP  20 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  19 GEM  20 LEO  20 VIR  21 SCO  21 SAG  
23 LIB  22 SCO  22 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  21 CAN  22 VIR  22 LIB  23 SAG  23 CAP  
26 SCO  24 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  25 CAN  23 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  25 AQU  
28 SAG  26 CAP  27 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  
30 CAP  28 AQU  29 PIS  29 TAU  29 GEM  30 LEO  30 VIR  28 LIB  30 SAG  29 CAP  30 PIS  29 ARI  

31 ARI          31 CAN                  31 SCO          31 AQU          31 TAU  

1909
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 GEM   1 CAN   3 LEO   1 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   2 CAP   1 AQU   1 ARI   2 GEM   1 CAN   1 LEO  
5 CAN   3 LEO   5 VIR   4 LIB   4 SCO   5 CAP   4 AQU   3 PIS   3 TAU   5 CAN   3 LEO   3 VIR  
7 LEO   6 VIR   8 LIB   6 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   6 PIS   5 ARI   5 GEM   7 LEO   6 VIR   5 LIB  

10 VIR   8 LIB  10 SCO   9 SAG   8 CAP   9 PIS   8 ARI   7 TAU   7 CAN   9 VIR   8 LIB   8 SCO  
12 LIB  11 SCO  13 SAG  11 CAP  11 AQU  11 ARI  10 TAU   9 GEM  10 LEO  12 LIB  11 SCO  11 SAG  
15 SCO  13 SAG  15 CAP  13 AQU  13 PIS  13 TAU  13 GEM  11 CAN  12 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  13 CAP  
17 SAG  16 CAP  17 AQU  16 PIS  15 ARI  15 GEM  15 CAN  13 LEO  15 LIB  17 SAG  16 CAP  15 AQU  
19 CAP  18 AQU  19 PIS  18 ARI  17 TAU  18 CAN  17 LEO  16 VIR  17 SCO  19 CAP  18 AQU  17 PIS  
21 AQU  20 PIS  21 ARI  20 TAU  19 GEM  20 LEO  20 VIR  18 LIB  20 SAG  22 AQU  20 PIS  20 ARI  
23 PIS  22 ARI  23 TAU  22 GEM  21 CAN  22 VIR  22 LIB  21 SCO  22 CAP  24 PIS  22 ARI  22 TAU  
25 ARI  24 TAU  25 GEM  24 CAN  23 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  23 SAG  24 AQU  26 ARI  24 TAU  24 GEM  
27 TAU  26 GEM  27 CAN  26 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  26 CAP  26 PIS  28 TAU  26 GEM  26 CAN  
30 GEM  28 CAN  30 LEO  29 VIR  28 LIB  30 SAG  29 CAP  28 AQU  28 ARI  30 GEM  28 CAN  28 LEO  

31 SCO                  30 PIS  30 TAU                  30 VIR  

1910
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 LIB   1 SCO   3 SAG   1 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB   1 SCO   3 CAP  
4 SCO   3 SAG   5 CAP   4 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   5 LIB   4 SCO   3 SAG   5 AQU  
7 SAG   6 CAP   7 AQU   6 PIS   5 ARI   6 GEM   5 CAN   6 VIR   7 SCO   7 SAG   6 CAP   8 PIS  
9 CAP   8 AQU   9 PIS   8 ARI   7 TAU   8 CAN   7 LEO   8 LIB  10 SAG   9 CAP   8 AQU  10 ARI  

11 AQU  10 PIS  11 ARI  10 TAU   9 GEM  10 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  11 PIS  12 TAU  
14 PIS  12 ARI  13 TAU  12 GEM  11 CAN  12 VIR  12 LIB  13 SAG  14 AQU  14 PIS  13 ARI  14 GEM  
16 ARI  14 TAU  16 GEM  14 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  14 SCO  16 CAP  17 PIS  16 ARI  15 TAU  16 CAN  
18 TAU  16 GEM  18 CAN  16 LEO  16 VIR  17 SCO  17 SAG  18 AQU  19 ARI  18 TAU  17 GEM  18 LEO  
20 GEM  18 CAN  20 LEO  19 VIR  18 LIB  20 SAG  19 CAP  20 PIS  21 TAU  20 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  
22 CAN  21 LEO  22 VIR  21 LIB  21 SCO  22 CAP  22 AQU  22 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  21 LEO  23 LIB  
24 LEO  23 VIR  25 LIB  24 SCO  23 SAG  24 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  23 VIR  25 SCO  
27 VIR  25 LIB  27 SCO  26 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  25 LIB  28 SAG  
29 LIB  28 SCO  30 SAG  29 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  30 VIR  29 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  

31 PIS          30 GEM  31 LEO                  30 SAG          

1911
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 AQU   3 ARI   2 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU  
4 PIS   5 TAU   4 TAU   4 CAN   4 LEO   5 LIB   4 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU   4 PIS   3 ARI   5 GEM  
6 ARI   7 GEM   6 GEM   7 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   7 SAG   6 CAP   7 PIS   6 ARI   5 TAU   7 CAN  
9 TAU   9 CAN   8 CAN   9 VIR   8 LIB  10 SAG   9 CAP   8 AQU   9 ARI   9 TAU   7 GEM   9 LEO  

11 GEM  11 LEO  10 LEO  11 LIB  11 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  11 PIS  11 TAU  11 GEM   9 CAN  11 VIR  
13 CAN  13 VIR  13 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  15 AQU  14 PIS  13 ARI  13 GEM  13 CAN  11 LEO  13 LIB  
15 LEO  15 LIB  15 LIB  16 SAG  16 CAP  17 PIS  17 ARI  15 TAU  16 CAN  15 LEO  13 VIR  15 SCO  
17 VIR  18 SCO  17 SCO  19 CAP  18 AQU  19 ARI  19 TAU  17 GEM  18 LEO  17 VIR  16 LIB  18 SAG  
19 LIB  20 SAG  20 SAG  21 AQU  21 PIS  22 TAU  21 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  19 LIB  18 SCO  20 CAP  
21 SCO  23 CAP  22 CAP  23 PIS  23 ARI  24 GEM  23 CAN  21 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  20 SAG  23 AQU  
24 SAG  25 AQU  25 AQU  26 ARI  25 TAU  26 CAN  25 LEO  23 VIR  24 SCO  24 SAG  23 CAP  25 PIS  
27 CAP  28 PIS  27 PIS  28 TAU  27 GEM  28 LEO  27 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  27 CAP  25 AQU  28 ARI  
29 AQU          29 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  30 VIR  29 LIB  28 SCO  29 CAP  29 AQU  28 PIS  30 TAU  
31 PIS          31 TAU          31 LEO                  30 SAG                  30 ARI          

4 3 2 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



1912
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 GEM   1 LEO   2 VIR   3 SCO   2 SAG   1 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB  
3 CAN   3 VIR   4 LIB   5 SAG   5 CAP   3 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   3 GEM   5 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO  
5 LEO   6 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   7 AQU   6 PIS   6 ARI   7 GEM   5 CAN   7 VIR   5 LIB   7 SAG  
7 VIR   8 SCO   8 SAG  10 AQU  10 PIS   8 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN   7 LEO   9 LIB   7 SCO   9 CAP  
9 LIB  10 SAG  11 CAP  12 PIS  12 ARI  11 TAU  10 GEM  11 LEO   9 VIR  11 SCO   9 SAG  12 AQU  

11 SCO  13 CAP  13 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  13 GEM  12 CAN  13 VIR  11 LIB  13 SAG  12 CAP  14 PIS  
14 SAG  15 AQU  16 PIS  17 TAU  17 GEM  15 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  13 SCO  15 CAP  14 AQU  17 ARI  
16 CAP  18 PIS  18 ARI  19 GEM  19 CAN  17 LEO  16 VIR  17 SCO  16 SAG  18 AQU  17 PIS  19 TAU  
19 AQU  20 ARI  21 TAU  21 CAN  21 LEO  19 VIR  18 LIB  19 SAG  18 CAP  20 PIS  19 ARI  21 GEM  
21 PIS  22 TAU  23 GEM  23 LEO  23 VIR  21 LIB  21 SCO  22 CAP  21 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  23 CAN  
24 ARI  25 GEM  25 CAN  26 VIR  25 LIB  23 SCO  23 SAG  24 AQU  23 PIS  25 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  
26 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  28 LIB  27 SCO  26 SAG  25 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  
28 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  30 SCO  30 SAG  28 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  28 TAU  30 CAN  28 LEO  29 LIB  
30 CAN          31 LIB                          31 PIS          30 GEM          30 VIR          

1913
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 SCO   2 CAP   1 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI   1 TAU   3 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU  
3 SAG   4 AQU   3 AQU   5 ARI   4 TAU   3 GEM   5 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU   4 PIS  
5 CAP   7 PIS   6 PIS   7 TAU   7 GEM   5 CAN   7 VIR   5 LIB   6 SAG   5 CAP   7 PIS   6 ARI  
8 AQU   9 ARI   8 ARI  10 GEM   9 CAN   7 LEO   9 LIB   7 SCO   8 CAP   8 AQU   9 ARI   9 TAU  

10 PIS  12 TAU  11 TAU  12 CAN  11 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO  10 SAG  10 AQU  10 PIS  12 TAU  11 GEM  
13 ARI  14 GEM  13 GEM  14 LEO  13 VIR  12 LIB  13 SAG  12 CAP  13 PIS  13 ARI  14 GEM  14 CAN  
15 TAU  16 CAN  16 CAN  16 VIR  15 LIB  14 SCO  16 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  15 TAU  16 CAN  16 LEO  
18 GEM  18 LEO  18 LEO  18 LIB  18 SCO  16 SAG  18 AQU  17 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  19 LEO  18 VIR  
20 CAN  20 VIR  20 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  18 CAP  20 PIS  19 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  21 VIR  20 LIB  
22 LEO  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  21 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  
24 VIR  24 SCO  24 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  23 PIS  25 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  
26 LIB  27 SAG  26 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  26 ARI  28 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  27 SAG  27 CAP  
28 SCO          28 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  28 TAU  30 CAN  29 LEO  29 LIB  29 SCO  29 CAP  29 AQU  
30 SAG          31 AQU                  30 GEM          31 VIR          31 SAG          31 PIS  

1914
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
3 ARI   2 TAU   1 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   3 ARI   1 TAU   1 GEM  
5 TAU   4 GEM   3 GEM   4 LEO   4 VIR   4 SCO   4 SAG   4 AQU   3 PIS   5 TAU   4 GEM   4 CAN  
8 GEM   6 CAN   6 CAN   7 VIR   6 LIB   6 SAG   6 CAP   7 PIS   5 ARI   8 GEM   6 CAN   6 LEO  

10 CAN   9 LEO   8 LEO   9 LIB   8 SCO   8 CAP   8 AQU   9 ARI   8 TAU  10 CAN   9 LEO   8 VIR  
12 LEO  11 VIR  10 VIR  11 SCO  10 SAG  11 AQU  10 PIS  12 TAU  10 GEM  13 LEO  11 VIR  11 LIB  
14 VIR  13 LIB  12 LIB  13 SAG  12 CAP  13 PIS  13 ARI  14 GEM  13 CAN  15 VIR  13 LIB  13 SCO  
16 LIB  15 SCO  14 SCO  15 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  15 TAU  17 CAN  15 LEO  17 LIB  15 SCO  15 SAG  
18 SCO  17 SAG  16 SAG  17 AQU  17 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  19 LEO  17 VIR  19 SCO  17 SAG  17 CAP  
21 SAG  19 CAP  18 CAP  19 PIS  19 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  21 VIR  19 LIB  21 SAG  19 CAP  19 AQU  
23 CAP  21 AQU  21 AQU  22 ARI  22 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  23 LIB  21 SCO  23 CAP  21 AQU  21 PIS  
25 AQU  24 PIS  23 PIS  24 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  25 VIR  25 SCO  23 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  24 ARI  
28 PIS  26 ARI  26 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  26 TAU  
30 ARI          28 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  29 CAP  28 AQU  30 ARI  29 TAU  29 GEM  

31 GEM          31 VIR          31 SAG          30 PIS                  31 CAN  

1915
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 LEO   1 VIR   2 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   3 ARI   1 TAU   3 CAN   3 LEO   1 VIR   1 LIB  
5 VIR   3 LIB   5 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU   3 PIS   5 TAU   4 GEM   5 LEO   5 VIR   4 LIB   3 SCO  
7 LIB   5 SCO   7 SAG   5 CAP   7 PIS   5 ARI   8 GEM   6 CAN   8 VIR   7 LIB   6 SCO   5 SAG  
9 SCO   7 SAG   9 CAP   7 AQU   9 ARI   8 TAU  10 CAN   9 LEO  10 LIB   9 SCO   8 SAG   7 CAP  

11 SAG  10 CAP  11 AQU   9 PIS  12 TAU  10 GEM  13 LEO  11 VIR  12 SCO  11 SAG  10 CAP   9 AQU  
13 CAP  12 AQU  13 PIS  12 ARI  14 GEM  13 CAN  15 VIR  13 LIB  14 SAG  13 CAP  12 AQU  11 PIS  
15 AQU  14 PIS  16 ARI  14 TAU  17 CAN  15 LEO  17 LIB  16 SCO  16 CAP  16 AQU  14 PIS  14 ARI  
18 PIS  16 ARI  18 TAU  17 GEM  19 LEO  18 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  18 AQU  18 PIS  16 ARI  16 TAU  
20 ARI  19 TAU  21 GEM  19 CAN  21 VIR  20 LIB  22 SAG  20 CAP  20 PIS  20 ARI  19 TAU  18 GEM  
22 TAU  21 GEM  23 CAN  22 LEO  24 LIB  22 SCO  24 CAP  22 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  21 GEM  21 CAN  
25 GEM  24 CAN  25 LEO  24 VIR  26 SCO  24 SAG  26 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  24 CAN  23 LEO  
27 CAN  26 LEO  28 VIR  26 LIB  28 SAG  26 CAP  28 PIS  26 ARI  28 GEM  27 CAN  26 LEO  26 VIR  
30 LEO  28 VIR  30 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  28 AQU  30 ARI  29 TAU  30 CAN  30 LEO  29 VIR  28 LIB  

30 SAG          30 PIS          31 GEM                          31 SCO  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 3 3



1916
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 SAG   2 AQU   3 PIS   1 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO   3 LIB   1 SCO   1 SAG   1 AQU   1 PIS  
4 CAP   4 PIS   5 ARI   3 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   4 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG   3 CAP   3 PIS   3 ARI  
6 AQU   6 ARI   7 TAU   6 GEM   5 CAN   7 VIR   7 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP   5 AQU   6 ARI   5 TAU  
8 PIS   9 TAU   9 GEM   8 CAN   8 LEO   9 LIB   9 SCO   9 CAP   8 AQU   7 PIS   8 TAU   7 GEM  

10 ARI  11 GEM  12 CAN  11 LEO  11 VIR  11 SCO  11 SAG  11 AQU  10 PIS   9 ARI  10 GEM  10 CAN  
12 TAU  14 CAN  14 LEO  13 VIR  13 LIB  14 SAG  13 CAP  13 PIS  12 ARI  11 TAU  13 CAN  12 LEO  
15 GEM  16 LEO  17 VIR  15 LIB  15 SCO  16 CAP  15 AQU  16 ARI  14 TAU  14 GEM  15 LEO  15 VIR  
17 CAN  18 VIR  19 LIB  18 SCO  17 SAG  18 AQU  17 PIS  18 TAU  16 GEM  16 CAN  18 VIR  17 LIB  
20 LEO  21 LIB  21 SCO  20 SAG  19 CAP  20 PIS  19 ARI  20 GEM  19 CAN  19 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  
22 VIR  23 SCO  23 SAG  22 CAP  21 AQU  22 ARI  21 TAU  23 CAN  21 LEO  21 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  
25 LIB  25 SAG  26 CAP  24 AQU  23 PIS  24 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  24 LIB  24 SAG  24 CAP  
27 SCO  27 CAP  28 AQU  26 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  26 CAN  28 VIR  26 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  26 AQU  
29 SAG  29 AQU  30 PIS  28 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  28 SAG  29 AQU  28 PIS  
31 CAP                          30 GEM          31 VIR                  30 CAP          30 ARI  

1917
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 TAU   2 CAN   2 CAN   3 VIR   3 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   2 ARI   2 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO  
4 GEM   5 LEO   4 LEO   5 LIB   5 SCO   4 SAG   3 CAP   4 PIS   4 TAU   4 GEM   5 LEO   5 VIR  
6 CAN   7 VIR   7 VIR   8 SCO   7 SAG   6 CAP   5 AQU   6 ARI   6 GEM   6 CAN   7 VIR   7 LIB  
9 LEO  10 LIB   9 LIB  10 SAG  10 CAP   8 AQU   7 PIS   8 TAU   9 CAN   9 LEO  10 LIB  10 SCO  

11 VIR  12 SCO  12 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  10 PIS   9 ARI  10 GEM  11 LEO  11 VIR  12 SCO  12 SAG  
14 LIB  15 SAG  14 SAG  15 AQU  14 PIS  12 ARI  12 TAU  13 CAN  14 VIR  14 LIB  15 SAG  14 CAP  
16 SCO  17 CAP  16 CAP  17 PIS  16 ARI  14 TAU  14 GEM  15 LEO  16 LIB  16 SCO  17 CAP  16 AQU  
18 SAG  19 AQU  18 AQU  19 ARI  18 TAU  17 GEM  16 CAN  18 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  19 AQU  19 PIS  
20 CAP  21 PIS  20 PIS  21 TAU  20 GEM  19 CAN  19 LEO  20 LIB  21 SAG  21 CAP  21 PIS  21 ARI  
22 AQU  23 ARI  22 ARI  23 GEM  23 CAN  21 LEO  21 VIR  23 SCO  23 CAP  23 AQU  23 ARI  23 TAU  
24 PIS  25 TAU  24 TAU  25 CAN  25 LEO  24 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  26 AQU  25 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  
26 ARI  27 GEM  27 GEM  28 LEO  28 VIR  27 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  28 PIS  27 ARI  28 GEM  27 CAN  
29 TAU          29 CAN  30 VIR  30 LIB  29 SCO  29 SAG  29 AQU  30 ARI  29 TAU  30 CAN  30 LEO  
31 GEM          31 LEO                          31 CAP  31 PIS          31 GEM                  

1918
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 VIR   2 SCO   2 SCO   3 CAP   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   1 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG  
4 LIB   5 SAG   4 SAG   5 AQU   4 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   3 CAN   4 VIR   3 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP  
6 SCO   7 CAP   7 CAP   7 PIS   7 ARI   5 TAU   6 CAN   5 LEO   6 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   7 AQU  
8 SAG   9 AQU   9 AQU   9 ARI   9 TAU   7 GEM   9 LEO   7 VIR   9 SCO   9 SAG  10 AQU   9 PIS  

11 CAP  11 PIS  11 PIS  11 TAU  11 GEM   9 CAN  11 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG  11 CAP  12 PIS  11 ARI  
13 AQU  13 ARI  13 ARI  13 GEM  13 CAN  11 LEO  14 LIB  12 SCO  14 CAP  13 AQU  14 ARI  13 TAU  
15 PIS  15 TAU  15 TAU  15 CAN  15 LEO  14 VIR  16 SCO  15 SAG  16 AQU  15 PIS  16 TAU  15 GEM  
17 ARI  17 GEM  17 GEM  18 LEO  17 VIR  16 LIB  19 SAG  17 CAP  18 PIS  18 ARI  18 GEM  17 CAN  
19 TAU  20 CAN  19 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  19 SCO  21 CAP  20 AQU  20 ARI  19 TAU  20 CAN  20 LEO  
21 GEM  22 LEO  21 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  21 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  22 TAU  21 GEM  22 LEO  22 VIR  
24 CAN  25 VIR  24 VIR  25 SCO  25 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  24 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  
26 LEO  27 LIB  26 LIB  28 SAG  27 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  26 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  27 SCO  
28 VIR          29 SCO  30 CAP  30 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  28 GEM  29 LEO  28 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  
31 LIB          31 SAG                  30 ARI          30 CAN          31 LIB                  

1919
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 CAP   2 PIS   1 PIS   1 TAU   1 GEM   1 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI  
3 AQU   4 ARI   3 ARI   3 GEM   3 CAN   4 VIR   3 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU  
5 PIS   6 TAU   5 TAU   6 CAN   5 LEO   6 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU   6 PIS   6 TAU   6 GEM  
7 ARI   8 GEM   7 GEM   8 LEO   7 VIR   9 SCO   8 SAG  10 AQU   8 PIS   8 ARI   8 GEM   8 CAN  

10 TAU  10 CAN   9 CAN  10 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG  11 CAP  12 PIS  10 ARI  10 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO  
12 GEM  12 LEO  12 LEO  13 LIB  12 SCO  14 CAP  13 AQU  14 ARI  12 TAU  12 GEM  12 LEO  12 VIR  
14 CAN  15 VIR  14 VIR  15 SCO  15 SAG  16 AQU  16 PIS  16 TAU  15 GEM  14 CAN  15 VIR  14 LIB  
16 LEO  17 LIB  16 LIB  18 SAG  17 CAP  18 PIS  18 ARI  18 GEM  17 CAN  16 LEO  17 LIB  17 SCO  
18 VIR  20 SCO  19 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  20 CAN  19 LEO  18 VIR  19 SCO  19 SAG  
21 LIB  22 SAG  21 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  21 VIR  21 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  
23 SCO  25 CAP  24 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  23 LIB  23 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  
26 SAG  27 AQU  26 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  26 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  
28 CAP          28 PIS  29 TAU  28 GEM  29 LEO  28 VIR  30 SCO  28 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  
30 AQU          30 ARI          30 CAN          31 LIB                  31 AQU          31 TAU  

4 3 4 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



1920
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 GEM   1 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   1 SCO   3 CAP   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR  
4 CAN   3 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO   4 SAG   5 AQU   5 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   4 CAN   4 VIR   3 LIB  
6 LEO   5 VIR   5 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP   8 PIS   7 ARI   6 TAU   6 CAN   6 LEO   6 LIB   6 SCO  
8 VIR   7 LIB   8 SCO   9 CAP   9 AQU  10 ARI   9 TAU   8 GEM   8 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO   8 SAG  

11 LIB   9 SCO  10 SAG  12 AQU  11 PIS  12 TAU  12 GEM  10 CAN  10 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG  11 CAP  
13 SCO  12 SAG  13 CAP  14 PIS  14 ARI  14 GEM  14 CAN  12 LEO  13 LIB  12 SCO  13 CAP  13 AQU  
16 SAG  14 CAP  15 AQU  16 ARI  16 TAU  16 CAN  16 LEO  14 VIR  15 SCO  15 SAG  16 AQU  16 PIS  
18 CAP  17 AQU  18 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  18 LEO  18 VIR  16 LIB  17 SAG  17 CAP  18 PIS  18 ARI  
21 AQU  19 PIS  20 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  18 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  
23 PIS  21 ARI  22 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  21 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  23 TAU  23 GEM  
25 ARI  24 TAU  24 GEM  24 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  25 SAG  23 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  25 CAN  
27 TAU  26 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  27 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  
30 GEM  28 CAN  28 LEO  29 LIB  29 SCO  30 CAP  30 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  29 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  

30 VIR          31 SAG                  31 ARI          31 CAN          31 LIB  

1921
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 SCO   1 SAG   3 CAP   1 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   2 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP  
4 SAG   3 CAP   5 AQU   4 PIS   4 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN   4 VIR   3 LIB   5 SAG   3 CAP   3 AQU  
7 CAP   6 AQU   8 PIS   6 ARI   6 TAU   7 CAN   6 LEO   6 LIB   5 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU   6 PIS  
9 AQU   8 PIS  10 ARI   9 TAU   8 GEM   9 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO   7 SAG   9 AQU   8 PIS   8 ARI  

12 PIS  11 ARI  12 TAU  11 GEM  10 CAN  11 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG  10 CAP  12 PIS  11 ARI  11 TAU  
14 ARI  13 TAU  15 GEM  13 CAN  12 LEO  13 LIB  12 SCO  13 CAP  12 AQU  14 ARI  13 TAU  13 GEM  
17 TAU  15 GEM  17 CAN  15 LEO  14 VIR  15 SCO  15 SAG  16 AQU  15 PIS  17 TAU  15 GEM  15 CAN  
19 GEM  17 CAN  19 LEO  17 VIR  17 LIB  17 SAG  17 CAP  18 PIS  17 ARI  19 GEM  18 CAN  17 LEO  
21 CAN  19 LEO  21 VIR  19 LIB  19 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  21 CAN  20 LEO  19 VIR  
23 LEO  21 VIR  23 LIB  21 SCO  21 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  22 VIR  21 LIB  
25 VIR  24 LIB  25 SCO  24 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  25 ARI  26 GEM  24 CAN  26 VIR  24 LIB  23 SCO  
27 LIB  26 SCO  27 SAG  26 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  28 CAN  26 LEO  28 LIB  26 SCO  26 SAG  
29 SCO  28 SAG  30 CAP  29 AQU  29 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  30 LEO  28 VIR  30 SCO  28 SAG  28 CAP  

31 ARI          31 CAN          30 LIB                  30 AQU  

1922
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 PIS   1 ARI   2 TAU   1 GEM   1 CAN   1 VIR   1 LIB   1 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS   1 ARI   3 GEM  
4 ARI   3 TAU   5 GEM   3 CAN   3 LEO   3 LIB   3 SCO   3 CAP   5 PIS   4 ARI   3 TAU   5 CAN  
7 TAU   6 GEM   7 CAN   6 LEO   5 VIR   5 SCO   5 SAG   6 AQU   7 ARI   7 TAU   6 GEM   7 LEO  
9 GEM   8 CAN   9 LEO   8 VIR   7 LIB   8 SAG   7 CAP   8 PIS  10 TAU   9 GEM   8 CAN  10 VIR  

11 CAN  10 LEO  11 VIR  10 LIB   9 SCO  10 CAP  10 AQU  11 ARI  12 GEM  12 CAN  10 LEO  12 LIB  
13 LEO  12 VIR  13 LIB  12 SCO  11 SAG  12 AQU  12 PIS  13 TAU  14 CAN  14 LEO  12 VIR  14 SCO  
15 VIR  14 LIB  15 SCO  14 SAG  13 CAP  15 PIS  14 ARI  16 GEM  17 LEO  16 VIR  15 LIB  16 SAG  
17 LIB  16 SCO  17 SAG  16 CAP  16 AQU  17 ARI  17 TAU  18 CAN  19 VIR  18 LIB  17 SCO  18 CAP  
20 SCO  18 SAG  20 CAP  18 AQU  18 PIS  20 TAU  19 GEM  20 LEO  21 LIB  20 SCO  19 SAG  20 AQU  
22 SAG  20 CAP  22 AQU  21 PIS  21 ARI  22 GEM  22 CAN  22 VIR  23 SCO  22 SAG  21 CAP  23 PIS  
24 CAP  23 AQU  25 PIS  24 ARI  23 TAU  24 CAN  24 LEO  24 LIB  25 SAG  24 CAP  23 AQU  25 ARI  
27 AQU  25 PIS  27 ARI  26 TAU  26 GEM  26 LEO  26 VIR  26 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  25 PIS  28 TAU  
29 PIS  28 ARI  30 TAU  28 GEM  28 CAN  28 VIR  28 LIB  28 SAG  29 AQU  29 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  

30 LEO          30 SCO  31 CAP                  30 TAU          

1923
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 CAN   2 VIR   2 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB  
4 LEO   4 LIB   4 LIB   4 SAG   4 CAP   4 PIS   4 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   4 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO  
6 VIR   6 SCO   6 SCO   6 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   7 TAU   6 GEM   7 LEO   6 VIR   5 LIB   6 SAG  
8 LIB   8 SAG   8 SAG   8 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   9 GEM   8 CAN   9 VIR   8 LIB   7 SCO   8 CAP  

10 SCO  11 CAP  10 CAP  11 PIS  11 ARI  12 GEM  12 CAN  10 LEO  11 LIB  10 SCO   9 SAG  10 AQU  
12 SAG  13 AQU  12 AQU  13 ARI  13 TAU  14 CAN  14 LEO  13 VIR  13 SCO  12 SAG  11 CAP  13 PIS  
14 CAP  15 PIS  15 PIS  16 TAU  16 GEM  17 LEO  16 VIR  15 LIB  15 SAG  15 CAP  13 AQU  15 ARI  
17 AQU  18 ARI  17 ARI  18 GEM  18 CAN  19 VIR  18 LIB  17 SCO  17 CAP  17 AQU  15 PIS  18 TAU  
19 PIS  20 TAU  20 TAU  21 CAN  21 LEO  21 LIB  21 SCO  19 SAG  19 AQU  19 PIS  18 ARI  20 GEM  
22 ARI  23 GEM  22 GEM  23 LEO  23 VIR  23 SCO  23 SAG  21 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  20 TAU  23 CAN  
24 TAU  25 CAN  25 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  23 AQU  24 ARI  24 TAU  23 GEM  25 LEO  
27 GEM  28 LEO  27 LEO  28 LIB  27 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 GEM  25 CAN  27 VIR  
29 CAN          29 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  29 PIS  28 ARI  29 GEM  29 CAN  28 LEO  30 LIB  
31 LEO          31 LIB          31 CAP                  30 TAU                  30 VIR          

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 3 5



1924
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 SCO   1 CAP   2 AQU   2 ARI   2 TAU   1 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   3 SCO   2 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS  
3 SAG   3 AQU   4 PIS   5 TAU   5 GEM   3 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP   5 PIS   4 ARI  
5 CAP   5 PIS   6 ARI   7 GEM   7 CAN   6 LEO   6 VIR   6 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   7 TAU  
7 AQU   8 ARI   9 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO   8 VIR   8 LIB   8 SAG   9 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   9 GEM  
9 PIS  10 TAU  11 GEM  12 LEO  12 VIR  11 LIB  10 SCO  11 CAP  11 PIS  11 ARI  12 GEM  12 CAN  

11 ARI  13 GEM  14 CAN  15 VIR  14 LIB  13 SCO  12 SAG  13 AQU  13 ARI  13 TAU  14 CAN  14 LEO  
14 TAU  15 CAN  16 LEO  17 LIB  16 SCO  15 SAG  14 CAP  15 PIS  16 TAU  15 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  
16 GEM  18 LEO  18 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  17 CAP  16 AQU  17 ARI  18 GEM  18 CAN  19 VIR  19 LIB  
19 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  19 AQU  18 PIS  19 TAU  21 CAN  20 LEO  22 LIB  21 SCO  
21 LEO  22 LIB  23 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  21 PIS  21 ARI  22 GEM  23 LEO  23 VIR  24 SCO  23 SAG  
24 VIR  24 SCO  25 SAG  25 AQU  25 PIS  23 ARI  23 TAU  24 CAN  26 VIR  25 LIB  26 SAG  25 CAP  
26 LIB  26 SAG  27 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  26 TAU  25 GEM  27 LEO  28 LIB  27 SCO  28 CAP  27 AQU  
28 SCO  28 CAP  29 AQU  30 ARI  29 TAU  28 GEM  28 CAN  29 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  29 PIS  
30 SAG          31 PIS                          30 LEO  31 LIB          31 CAP          31 ARI  

1925
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
3 TAU   2 GEM   1 GEM   2 LEO   2 VIR   1 LIB   3 SAG   1 CAP   1 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   1 CAN  
5 GEM   4 CAN   3 CAN   5 VIR   4 LIB   3 SCO   5 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   4 LEO  
8 CAN   7 LEO   6 LEO   7 LIB   7 SCO   5 SAG   7 AQU   5 PIS   6 TAU   5 GEM   7 LEO   6 VIR  

10 LEO   9 VIR   8 VIR   9 SCO   9 SAG   7 CAP   9 PIS   7 ARI   8 GEM   8 CAN   9 VIR   9 LIB  
13 VIR  11 LIB  11 LIB  11 SAG  11 CAP   9 AQU  11 ARI   9 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO  12 LIB  11 SCO  
15 LIB  14 SCO  13 SCO  13 CAP  13 AQU  11 PIS  13 TAU  12 GEM  13 LEO  13 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  
17 SCO  16 SAG  15 SAG  16 AQU  15 PIS  13 ARI  15 GEM  14 CAN  15 VIR  15 LIB  16 SAG  16 CAP  
20 SAG  18 CAP  17 CAP  18 PIS  17 ARI  16 TAU  18 CAN  17 LEO  18 LIB  18 SCO  18 CAP  18 AQU  
22 CAP  20 AQU  19 AQU  20 ARI  19 TAU  18 GEM  20 LEO  19 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  20 AQU  20 PIS  
24 AQU  22 PIS  21 PIS  22 TAU  22 GEM  21 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  
26 PIS  24 ARI  24 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  23 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  
28 ARI  26 TAU  26 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  26 VIR  28 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  
30 TAU          28 GEM  30 LEO  29 VIR  28 LIB  30 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  28 ARI  29 GEM  29 CAN  

31 CAN                  30 SCO          30 AQU          30 TAU          31 LEO  

1926
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
3 VIR   2 LIB   1 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   3 LEO   3 VIR   1 LIB   1 SCO  
5 LIB   4 SCO   3 SCO   4 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   5 VIR   5 LIB   4 SCO   4 SAG  
8 SCO   6 SAG   6 SAG   6 AQU   6 PIS   6 TAU   6 GEM   7 LEO   8 LIB   8 SCO   6 SAG   6 CAP  

10 SAG   8 CAP   8 CAP   8 PIS   8 ARI   8 GEM   8 CAN   9 VIR  10 SCO  10 SAG   9 CAP   8 AQU  
12 CAP  10 AQU  10 AQU  10 ARI  10 TAU  11 CAN  10 LEO  12 LIB  13 SAG  12 CAP  11 AQU  10 PIS  
14 AQU  12 PIS  12 PIS  12 TAU  12 GEM  13 LEO  13 VIR  14 SCO  15 CAP  15 AQU  13 PIS  12 ARI  
16 PIS  14 ARI  14 ARI  15 GEM  14 CAN  16 VIR  15 LIB  17 SAG  17 AQU  17 PIS  15 ARI  14 TAU  
18 ARI  17 TAU  16 TAU  17 CAN  17 LEO  18 LIB  18 SCO  19 CAP  19 PIS  19 ARI  17 TAU  17 GEM  
20 TAU  19 GEM  18 GEM  19 LEO  19 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  21 AQU  21 ARI  21 TAU  19 GEM  19 CAN  
23 GEM  21 CAN  21 CAN  22 VIR  22 LIB  23 SAG  22 CAP  23 PIS  23 TAU  23 GEM  21 CAN  21 LEO  
25 CAN  24 LEO  23 LEO  24 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  25 GEM  25 CAN  24 LEO  24 VIR  
27 LEO  26 VIR  26 VIR  27 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  28 CAN  27 LEO  26 VIR  26 LIB  
30 VIR          28 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  29 PIS  28 ARI  29 GEM  30 LEO  30 VIR  29 LIB  29 SCO  

30 SCO          31 AQU          31 TAU  31 CAN                          31 SAG  

1927
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 CAP   1 AQU   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   1 CAN   3 VIR   1 LIB   3 SAG   3 CAP   1 AQU   1 PIS  
4 AQU   3 PIS   4 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   3 LEO   5 LIB   4 SCO   5 CAP   5 AQU   3 PIS   3 ARI  
6 PIS   5 ARI   6 TAU   5 GEM   7 LEO   5 VIR   8 SCO   7 SAG   8 AQU   7 PIS   6 ARI   5 TAU  
9 ARI   7 TAU   8 GEM   7 CAN   9 VIR   8 LIB  10 SAG   9 CAP  10 PIS   9 ARI   8 TAU   7 GEM  

11 TAU   9 GEM  11 CAN   9 LEO  12 LIB  10 SCO  13 CAP  11 AQU  12 ARI  11 TAU  10 GEM   9 CAN  
13 GEM  11 CAN  13 LEO  12 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  15 AQU  13 PIS  14 TAU  13 GEM  12 CAN  11 LEO  
15 CAN  14 LEO  15 VIR  14 LIB  16 SAG  15 CAP  17 PIS  15 ARI  16 GEM  15 CAN  14 LEO  13 VIR  
17 LEO  16 VIR  18 LIB  17 SCO  19 CAP  17 AQU  19 ARI  17 TAU  18 CAN  17 LEO  16 VIR  16 LIB  
20 VIR  19 LIB  21 SCO  19 SAG  21 AQU  20 PIS  21 TAU  19 GEM  20 LEO  20 VIR  19 LIB  18 SCO  
22 LIB  21 SCO  23 SAG  22 CAP  23 PIS  22 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  21 SCO  21 SAG  
25 SCO  24 SAG  25 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  24 SAG  23 CAP  
27 SAG  26 CAP  28 AQU  26 PIS  28 TAU  26 GEM  28 LEO  26 VIR  28 SCO  27 SAG  26 CAP  26 AQU  
30 CAP  28 AQU  30 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  29 LIB  30 SAG  30 CAP  28 AQU  28 PIS  

30 TAU          30 LEO          31 SCO                          30 ARI  

4 3 6 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



1928
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO   1 VIR   3 SCO   2 SAG   2 CAP   3 PIS   1 ARI   3 GEM   1 CAN   3 VIR  
3 GEM   4 LEO   5 VIR   3 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP   4 AQU   5 ARI   3 TAU   5 CAN   3 LEO   5 LIB  
5 CAN   6 VIR   7 LIB   6 SCO   8 CAP   7 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   5 GEM   7 LEO   5 VIR   7 SCO  
8 LEO   9 LIB   9 SCO   8 SAG  10 AQU   9 PIS   9 ARI   9 GEM   7 CAN   9 VIR   8 LIB  10 SAG  

10 VIR  11 SCO  12 SAG  11 CAP  13 PIS  11 ARI  11 TAU  11 CAN  10 LEO  11 LIB  10 SCO  12 CAP  
12 LIB  14 SAG  14 CAP  13 AQU  15 ARI  13 TAU  13 GEM  13 LEO  12 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  15 AQU  
15 SCO  16 CAP  17 AQU  15 PIS  17 TAU  15 GEM  15 CAN  15 VIR  14 LIB  16 SAG  15 CAP  17 PIS  
17 SAG  18 AQU  19 PIS  18 ARI  19 GEM  17 CAN  17 LEO  18 LIB  16 SCO  19 CAP  18 AQU  20 ARI  
20 CAP  21 PIS  21 ARI  20 TAU  21 CAN  19 LEO  19 VIR  20 SCO  19 SAG  21 AQU  20 PIS  22 TAU  
22 AQU  23 ARI  23 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  22 VIR  21 LIB  23 SAG  22 CAP  24 PIS  22 ARI  24 GEM  
24 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  26 ARI  24 TAU  26 CAN  
26 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  26 LEO  28 LIB  26 SCO  26 SAG  28 AQU  26 PIS  28 TAU  26 GEM  28 LEO  
28 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  28 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  29 CAP  30 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  
31 GEM                  30 LIB                  31 AQU          30 TAU          30 LEO          

1929
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 LIB   2 SAG   2 SAG   1 CAP   3 PIS   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB   2 SAG   2 CAP  
4 SCO   5 CAP   4 CAP   3 AQU   5 ARI   4 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   4 LIB   4 SCO   5 CAP   5 AQU  
6 SAG   7 AQU   7 AQU   5 PIS   7 TAU   6 GEM   5 CAN   6 VIR   6 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   7 PIS  
9 CAP  10 PIS   9 PIS   8 ARI   9 GEM   8 CAN   7 LEO   8 LIB   9 SAG   9 CAP  10 PIS  10 ARI  

11 AQU  12 ARI  11 ARI  10 TAU  11 CAN  10 LEO   9 VIR  10 SCO  11 CAP  11 AQU  12 ARI  12 TAU  
14 PIS  14 TAU  14 TAU  12 GEM  13 LEO  12 VIR  11 LIB  12 SAG  14 AQU  14 PIS  15 TAU  14 GEM  
16 ARI  16 GEM  16 GEM  14 CAN  16 VIR  14 LIB  14 SCO  15 CAP  16 PIS  16 ARI  17 GEM  16 CAN  
18 TAU  19 CAN  18 CAN  16 LEO  18 LIB  16 SCO  16 SAG  17 AQU  19 ARI  18 TAU  19 CAN  18 LEO  
20 GEM  21 LEO  20 LEO  18 VIR  20 SCO  19 SAG  19 CAP  20 PIS  21 TAU  20 GEM  21 LEO  20 VIR  
22 CAN  23 VIR  22 VIR  21 LIB  23 SAG  21 CAP  21 AQU  22 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  
24 LEO  25 LIB  24 LIB  23 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  25 CAN  25 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  
26 VIR  27 SCO  27 SCO  25 SAG  28 AQU  26 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  
29 LIB          29 SAG  28 CAP  30 PIS  29 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  29 VIR  29 LIB  30 SAG  30 CAP  
31 SCO                  30 AQU                  31 GEM  31 LEO          31 SCO                  

1930
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 AQU   2 ARI   2 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   2 TAU  
4 PIS   5 TAU   4 TAU   5 CAN   4 LEO   4 LIB   4 SCO   5 CAP   4 AQU   3 PIS   5 TAU   4 GEM  
6 ARI   7 GEM   6 GEM   7 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   6 PIS   6 ARI   7 GEM   7 CAN  
8 TAU   9 CAN   8 CAN   9 VIR   8 LIB   9 SAG   9 CAP  10 PIS   9 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN   9 LEO  

11 GEM  11 LEO  10 LEO  11 LIB  10 SCO  11 CAP  11 AQU  12 ARI  11 TAU  11 GEM  11 LEO  11 VIR  
13 CAN  13 VIR  12 VIR  13 SCO  13 SAG  14 AQU  14 PIS  15 TAU  14 GEM  13 CAN  13 VIR  13 LIB  
15 LEO  15 LIB  15 LIB  15 SAG  15 CAP  16 PIS  16 ARI  17 GEM  16 CAN  15 LEO  16 LIB  15 SCO  
17 VIR  17 SCO  17 SCO  18 CAP  18 AQU  19 ARI  19 TAU  19 CAN  18 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  17 SAG  
19 LIB  20 SAG  19 SAG  20 AQU  20 PIS  21 TAU  21 GEM  21 LEO  20 VIR  19 LIB  20 SAG  20 CAP  
21 SCO  22 CAP  21 CAP  23 PIS  23 ARI  24 GEM  23 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  21 SCO  22 CAP  22 AQU  
23 SAG  25 AQU  24 AQU  25 ARI  25 TAU  26 CAN  25 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  
26 CAP  27 PIS  26 PIS  28 TAU  27 GEM  28 LEO  27 VIR  28 SCO  26 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  
28 AQU          29 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  30 VIR  29 LIB  30 SAG  28 CAP  28 AQU  30 ARI  29 TAU  
31 PIS          31 TAU          31 LEO          31 SCO                  31 PIS                  

1931
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 GEM   1 LEO   1 LEO   1 LIB   1 SCO   1 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR  
3 CAN   3 VIR   3 VIR   3 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU   4 PIS   5 TAU   4 GEM   3 CAN   4 VIR   3 LIB  
5 LEO   5 LIB   5 LIB   5 SAG   5 CAP   6 PIS   6 ARI   7 GEM   6 CAN   6 LEO   6 LIB   6 SCO  
7 VIR   8 SCO   7 SCO   8 CAP   7 AQU   9 ARI   9 TAU  10 CAN   8 LEO   8 VIR   8 SCO   8 SAG  
9 LIB  10 SAG   9 SAG  10 AQU  10 PIS  11 TAU  11 GEM  12 LEO  10 VIR  10 LIB  10 SAG  10 CAP  

11 SCO  12 CAP  11 CAP  13 PIS  12 ARI  14 GEM  13 CAN  14 VIR  12 LIB  12 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  
13 SAG  15 AQU  14 AQU  15 ARI  15 TAU  16 CAN  15 LEO  16 LIB  14 SCO  14 SAG  14 AQU  14 PIS  
16 CAP  17 PIS  16 PIS  18 TAU  17 GEM  18 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  16 SAG  16 CAP  17 PIS  17 ARI  
18 AQU  20 ARI  19 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  20 SAG  19 CAP  18 AQU  19 ARI  19 TAU  
21 PIS  22 TAU  21 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  22 CAP  21 AQU  21 PIS  22 TAU  22 GEM  
23 ARI  25 GEM  24 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  24 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  23 PIS  23 ARI  24 GEM  24 CAN  
26 TAU  27 CAN  26 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  26 LEO  
28 GEM          28 LEO  29 LIB  28 SCO  29 CAP  28 AQU  30 ARI  28 TAU  28 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  
30 CAN          30 VIR          30 SAG          31 PIS                  31 CAN          31 LIB  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 3 7



1932
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 SCO   2 CAP   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   3 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   1 SCO   1 CAP   1 AQU  
4 SAG   5 AQU   3 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU   5 CAN   5 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU   3 PIS  
6 CAP   7 PIS   5 PIS   7 TAU   6 GEM   7 LEO   7 VIR   5 LIB   6 SAG   5 CAP   6 PIS   6 ARI  
8 AQU   9 ARI   8 ARI   9 GEM   9 CAN  10 VIR   9 LIB   7 SCO   8 CAP   7 AQU   8 ARI   8 TAU  

11 PIS  12 TAU  10 TAU  12 CAN  11 LEO  12 LIB  11 SCO  10 SAG  10 AQU  10 PIS  11 TAU  11 GEM  
13 ARI  14 GEM  13 GEM  14 LEO  13 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  12 CAP  12 PIS  12 ARI  13 GEM  13 CAN  
16 TAU  17 CAN  15 CAN  16 VIR  16 LIB  16 SAG  15 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  15 TAU  16 CAN  16 LEO  
18 GEM  19 LEO  18 LEO  18 LIB  18 SCO  18 CAP  18 AQU  16 PIS  17 TAU  17 GEM  18 LEO  18 VIR  
20 CAN  21 VIR  20 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  20 AQU  20 PIS  19 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  21 VIR  20 LIB  
23 LEO  23 LIB  22 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  21 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  
25 VIR  25 SCO  24 SCO  24 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  25 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  
27 LIB  27 SAG  26 SAG  26 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  
29 SCO          28 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  30 GEM  30 CAN  28 LEO  29 LIB  29 SCO  29 CAP  28 AQU  
31 SAG          30 AQU          31 TAU                  31 VIR          30 SAG          31 PIS  

1933
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 ARI   1 TAU   3 GEM   1 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   1 GEM  
4 TAU   3 GEM   5 CAN   4 LEO   4 VIR   4 SCO   4 SAG   4 AQU   3 PIS   5 TAU   3 GEM   3 CAN  
7 GEM   6 CAN   8 LEO   6 VIR   6 LIB   6 SAG   6 CAP   6 PIS   5 ARI   7 GEM   6 CAN   6 LEO  
9 CAN   8 LEO  10 VIR   8 LIB   8 SCO   8 CAP   8 AQU   8 ARI   7 TAU   9 CAN   8 LEO   8 VIR  

12 LEO  10 VIR  12 LIB  11 SCO  10 SAG  10 AQU  10 PIS  11 TAU  10 GEM  12 LEO  11 VIR  11 LIB  
14 VIR  13 LIB  14 SCO  13 SAG  12 CAP  12 PIS  12 ARI  13 GEM  12 CAN  14 VIR  13 LIB  13 SCO  
16 LIB  15 SCO  16 SAG  15 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  16 CAN  15 LEO  17 LIB  15 SCO  15 SAG  
19 SCO  17 SAG  18 CAP  17 AQU  16 PIS  17 TAU  17 GEM  18 LEO  17 VIR  19 SCO  17 SAG  17 CAP  
21 SAG  19 CAP  20 AQU  19 PIS  19 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  21 VIR  19 LIB  21 SAG  19 CAP  19 AQU  
23 CAP  21 AQU  23 PIS  21 ARI  21 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  23 LIB  21 SCO  23 CAP  21 AQU  21 PIS  
25 AQU  23 PIS  25 ARI  24 TAU  23 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  23 PIS  23 ARI  
27 PIS  26 ARI  27 TAU  26 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  25 TAU  
29 ARI  28 TAU  30 GEM  29 CAN  29 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  29 CAP  28 AQU  30 ARI  28 TAU  28 GEM  

31 VIR          31 SAG          30 PIS                  30 CAN  

1934
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 LEO   1 VIR   2 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO   1 VIR   3 SCO  
4 VIR   3 LIB   5 SCO   3 SAG   5 AQU   3 PIS   5 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   4 VIR   3 LIB   5 SAG  
7 LIB   5 SCO   7 SAG   5 CAP   7 PIS   5 ARI   7 GEM   6 CAN   7 VIR   7 LIB   5 SCO   7 CAP  
9 SCO   8 SAG   9 CAP   7 AQU   9 ARI   7 TAU   9 CAN   8 LEO   9 LIB   9 SCO   8 SAG   9 AQU  

11 SAG  10 CAP  11 AQU   9 PIS  11 TAU  10 GEM  12 LEO  11 VIR  12 SCO  11 SAG  10 CAP  11 PIS  
13 CAP  12 AQU  13 PIS  12 ARI  13 GEM  12 CAN  15 VIR  13 LIB  14 SAG  14 CAP  12 AQU  13 ARI  
15 AQU  14 PIS  15 ARI  14 TAU  16 CAN  15 LEO  17 LIB  16 SCO  16 CAP  16 AQU  14 PIS  16 TAU  
17 PIS  16 ARI  17 TAU  16 GEM  18 LEO  17 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  18 AQU  18 PIS  16 ARI  18 GEM  
19 ARI  18 TAU  20 GEM  19 CAN  21 VIR  20 LIB  22 SAG  20 CAP  20 PIS  20 ARI  18 TAU  20 CAN  
22 TAU  20 GEM  22 CAN  21 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  24 CAP  22 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  21 GEM  23 LEO  
24 GEM  23 CAN  25 LEO  24 VIR  26 SCO  24 SAG  26 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  24 GEM  23 CAN  25 VIR  
27 CAN  25 LEO  27 VIR  26 LIB  28 SAG  26 CAP  28 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  25 LEO  28 LIB  
29 LEO  28 VIR  30 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  28 AQU  30 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  28 VIR  30 SCO  

30 SAG          30 PIS          30 GEM                  30 LIB          

1935
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 SAG   2 AQU   2 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS  
4 CAP   4 PIS   4 PIS   4 TAU   4 GEM   5 LEO   4 VIR   3 LIB   4 SAG   4 CAP   5 PIS   4 ARI  
6 AQU   6 ARI   5 ARI   6 GEM   6 CAN   7 VIR   7 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   6 TAU  
8 PIS   8 TAU   8 TAU   8 CAN   8 LEO  10 LIB   9 SCO   8 SAG   9 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   8 GEM  

10 ARI  10 GEM  10 GEM  11 LEO  11 VIR  12 SCO  12 SAG  10 CAP  11 PIS  10 ARI  11 GEM  10 CAN  
12 TAU  13 CAN  12 CAN  13 VIR  13 LIB  14 SAG  14 CAP  12 AQU  13 ARI  12 TAU  13 CAN  13 LEO  
14 GEM  15 LEO  15 LEO  16 LIB  16 SCO  17 CAP  16 AQU  14 PIS  15 TAU  14 GEM  15 LEO  15 VIR  
17 CAN  18 VIR  17 VIR  18 SCO  18 SAG  19 AQU  18 PIS  16 ARI  17 GEM  17 CAN  18 VIR  18 LIB  
19 LEO  20 LIB  20 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  21 PIS  20 ARI  18 TAU  19 CAN  19 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  
22 VIR  23 SCO  22 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  21 GEM  22 LEO  21 VIR  23 SCO  23 SAG  
24 LIB  25 SAG  24 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  24 GEM  23 CAN  24 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  
27 SCO  27 CAP  27 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  25 LEO  27 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  
29 SAG          29 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  28 VIR  29 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  29 PIS  
31 CAP          31 PIS          31 GEM                  30 LIB          31 CAP          31 ARI  

4 3 8 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



1936
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 TAU   1 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB   1 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   2 ARI   2 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO  
5 GEM   3 CAN   4 LEO   5 LIB   5 SCO   3 SAG   3 CAP   4 PIS   4 TAU   4 GEM   4 LEO   4 VIR  
7 CAN   5 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   7 SAG   6 CAP   5 AQU   6 ARI   6 GEM   6 CAN   7 VIR   6 LIB  
9 LEO   8 VIR   9 LIB  10 SAG   9 CAP   8 AQU   8 PIS   8 TAU   9 CAN   8 LEO   9 LIB   9 SCO  

11 VIR  10 LIB  11 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  10 PIS  10 ARI  10 GEM  11 LEO  10 VIR  12 SCO  11 SAG  
14 LIB  13 SCO  14 SAG  15 AQU  14 PIS  12 ARI  12 TAU  12 CAN  13 VIR  13 LIB  14 SAG  14 CAP  
16 SCO  15 SAG  16 CAP  17 PIS  16 ARI  14 TAU  14 GEM  15 LEO  16 LIB  15 SCO  17 CAP  16 AQU  
19 SAG  18 CAP  18 AQU  19 ARI  18 TAU  17 GEM  16 CAN  17 VIR  18 SCO  18 SAG  19 AQU  19 PIS  
21 CAP  20 AQU  20 PIS  21 TAU  20 GEM  19 CAN  18 LEO  19 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  21 PIS  21 ARI  
23 AQU  22 PIS  22 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  21 LEO  21 VIR  22 SCO  23 CAP  23 AQU  24 ARI  23 TAU  
25 PIS  24 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  23 VIR  23 LIB  24 SAG  25 AQU  25 PIS  26 TAU  25 GEM  
27 ARI  26 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  26 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  28 PIS  27 ARI  28 GEM  27 CAN  
30 TAU  28 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  29 LIB  28 SCO  28 SAG  29 AQU  30 ARI  29 TAU  30 CAN  29 LEO  

31 LEO                          30 CAP  31 PIS          31 GEM          31 VIR  

1937
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
3 LIB   2 SCO   1 SCO   2 CAP   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   1 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SAG  
5 SCO   4 SAG   3 SAG   5 AQU   4 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   3 CAN   3 VIR   3 LIB   4 SAG   4 CAP  
8 SAG   7 CAP   6 CAP   7 PIS   7 ARI   5 TAU   6 CAN   5 LEO   6 LIB   5 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU  

10 CAP   9 AQU   8 AQU   9 ARI   9 TAU   7 GEM   8 LEO   7 VIR   8 SCO   8 SAG   9 AQU   9 PIS  
13 AQU  11 PIS  11 PIS  11 TAU  11 GEM   9 CAN  11 VIR   9 LIB  10 SAG  10 CAP  12 PIS  11 ARI  
15 PIS  13 ARI  13 ARI  13 GEM  13 CAN  11 LEO  13 LIB  12 SCO  13 CAP  13 AQU  14 ARI  13 TAU  
17 ARI  15 TAU  15 TAU  15 CAN  15 LEO  13 VIR  15 SCO  14 SAG  15 AQU  15 PIS  16 TAU  15 GEM  
19 TAU  18 GEM  17 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  16 LIB  18 SAG  17 CAP  18 PIS  17 ARI  18 GEM  17 CAN  
21 GEM  20 CAN  19 CAN  20 VIR  19 LIB  18 SCO  20 CAP  19 AQU  20 ARI  19 TAU  20 CAN  19 LEO  
23 CAN  22 LEO  21 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  21 SAG  23 AQU  21 PIS  22 TAU  21 GEM  22 LEO  21 VIR  
26 LEO  24 VIR  23 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  23 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  24 GEM  24 CAN  24 VIR  24 LIB  
28 VIR  26 LIB  26 LIB  27 SAG  27 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  26 CAN  26 LEO  26 LIB  26 SCO  
30 LIB          28 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  28 PIS  30 TAU  28 GEM  28 LEO  28 VIR  29 SCO  29 SAG  

31 SAG                  30 ARI          30 CAN          30 LIB          31 CAP  

1938
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
3 AQU   1 PIS   1 PIS   1 TAU   1 GEM   1 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   3 CAP   3 AQU   2 PIS   1 ARI  
5 PIS   4 ARI   3 ARI   4 GEM   3 CAN   3 VIR   3 LIB   4 SAG   5 AQU   5 PIS   4 ARI   4 TAU  
7 ARI   6 TAU   5 TAU   6 CAN   5 LEO   6 LIB   5 SCO   7 CAP   8 PIS   8 ARI   6 TAU   6 GEM  

10 TAU   8 GEM   7 GEM   8 LEO   7 VIR   8 SCO   8 SAG   9 AQU  10 ARI  10 TAU   8 GEM   8 CAN  
12 GEM  10 CAN   9 CAN  10 VIR   9 LIB  10 SAG  10 CAP  12 PIS  12 TAU  12 GEM  10 CAN  10 LEO  
14 CAN  12 LEO  12 LEO  12 LIB  12 SCO  13 CAP  13 AQU  14 ARI  15 GEM  14 CAN  12 LEO  12 VIR  
16 LEO  14 VIR  14 VIR  15 SCO  14 SAG  16 AQU  15 PIS  16 TAU  17 CAN  16 LEO  15 VIR  14 LIB  
18 VIR  16 LIB  16 LIB  17 SAG  17 CAP  18 PIS  18 ARI  18 GEM  19 LEO  18 VIR  17 LIB  16 SCO  
20 LIB  19 SCO  18 SCO  19 CAP  19 AQU  20 ARI  20 TAU  21 CAN  21 VIR  20 LIB  19 SCO  19 SAG  
22 SCO  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  23 LIB  23 SCO  21 SAG  21 CAP  
25 SAG  24 CAP  23 CAP  24 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  25 SCO  25 SAG  24 CAP  24 AQU  
27 CAP  26 AQU  26 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  28 SAG  27 CAP  26 AQU  26 PIS  
30 AQU          28 PIS  29 TAU  28 GEM  29 LEO  28 VIR  29 SCO  30 CAP  30 AQU  29 PIS  29 ARI  

30 ARI          30 CAN          30 LIB  31 SAG                          31 TAU  

1939
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 GEM   1 CAN   2 LEO   3 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   3 AQU   1 PIS   3 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR  
4 CAN   3 LEO   4 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG   3 CAP   5 PIS   4 ARI   5 GEM   5 CAN   3 LEO   5 LIB  
6 LEO   5 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   7 CAP   5 AQU   8 ARI   6 TAU   7 CAN   7 LEO   5 VIR   7 SCO  
8 VIR   7 LIB   8 SCO   9 CAP   9 AQU   8 PIS  10 TAU   9 GEM   9 LEO   9 VIR   7 LIB   9 SAG  

10 LIB   9 SCO  10 SAG  12 AQU  12 PIS  10 ARI  12 GEM  11 CAN  11 VIR  11 LIB   9 SCO  11 CAP  
12 SCO  11 SAG  13 CAP  14 PIS  14 ARI  13 TAU  15 CAN  13 LEO  13 LIB  13 SCO  11 SAG  13 AQU  
15 SAG  14 CAP  15 AQU  17 ARI  16 TAU  15 GEM  17 LEO  15 VIR  15 SCO  15 SAG  14 CAP  16 PIS  
17 CAP  16 AQU  18 PIS  19 TAU  19 GEM  17 CAN  19 VIR  17 LIB  18 SAG  17 CAP  16 AQU  19 ARI  
20 AQU  19 PIS  20 ARI  21 GEM  21 CAN  19 LEO  21 LIB  19 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  19 PIS  21 TAU  
22 PIS  21 ARI  23 TAU  24 CAN  23 LEO  21 VIR  23 SCO  21 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  21 ARI  23 GEM  
25 ARI  24 TAU  25 GEM  26 LEO  25 VIR  23 LIB  25 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  25 ARI  24 TAU  26 CAN  
27 TAU  26 GEM  27 CAN  28 VIR  27 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  26 AQU  28 ARI  27 TAU  26 GEM  28 LEO  
30 GEM  28 CAN  29 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  28 SAG  30 AQU  29 PIS  30 TAU  30 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  

31 VIR                  30 CAP          31 ARI                  30 LEO          

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 3 9



1940
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 LIB   1 SAG   2 CAP   1 AQU   3 ARI   2 TAU   2 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU  
3 SCO   4 CAP   4 AQU   3 PIS   5 TAU   4 GEM   4 CAN   4 VIR   3 LIB   4 SAG   3 CAP   5 PIS  
5 SAG   6 AQU   7 PIS   6 ARI   8 GEM   6 CAN   6 LEO   6 LIB   5 SCO   6 CAP   5 AQU   7 ARI  
7 CAP   9 PIS   9 ARI   8 TAU  10 CAN   9 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO   7 SAG   9 AQU   7 PIS  10 TAU  

10 AQU  11 ARI  12 TAU  11 GEM  12 LEO  11 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG   9 CAP  11 PIS  10 ARI  12 GEM  
12 PIS  14 TAU  14 GEM  13 CAN  15 VIR  13 LIB  12 SCO  13 CAP  11 AQU  14 ARI  13 TAU  15 CAN  
15 ARI  16 GEM  17 CAN  15 LEO  17 LIB  15 SCO  14 SAG  15 AQU  14 PIS  16 TAU  15 GEM  17 LEO  
17 TAU  18 CAN  19 LEO  17 VIR  19 SCO  17 SAG  17 CAP  18 PIS  16 ARI  19 GEM  17 CAN  19 VIR  
20 GEM  20 LEO  21 VIR  19 LIB  21 SAG  19 CAP  19 AQU  20 ARI  19 TAU  21 CAN  20 LEO  21 LIB  
22 CAN  22 VIR  23 LIB  21 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  21 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  
24 LEO  24 LIB  25 SCO  23 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  26 VIR  24 LIB  26 SAG  
26 VIR  26 SCO  27 SAG  26 CAP  28 PIS  27 ARI  26 TAU  28 CAN  26 LEO  28 LIB  26 SCO  28 CAP  
28 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  28 AQU  30 ARI  29 TAU  29 GEM  30 LEO  28 VIR  30 SCO  28 SAG  30 AQU  
30 SCO                  30 PIS                  31 CAN          30 LIB          30 CAP          

1941
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 PIS   2 TAU   2 TAU   1 GEM   3 LEO   1 VIR   1 LIB   1 SAG   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   2 GEM  
4 ARI   5 GEM   4 GEM   3 CAN   5 VIR   4 LIB   3 SCO   3 CAP   4 PIS   4 ARI   5 GEM   5 CAN  
6 TAU   7 CAN   7 CAN   5 LEO   7 LIB   6 SCO   5 SAG   5 AQU   6 ARI   6 TAU   7 CAN   7 LEO  
9 GEM  10 LEO   9 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO   8 SAG   7 CAP   8 PIS   9 TAU   9 GEM  10 LEO  10 VIR  

11 CAN  12 VIR  11 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG  10 CAP   9 AQU  10 ARI  11 GEM  11 CAN  12 VIR  12 LIB  
13 LEO  14 LIB  13 LIB  12 SCO  13 CAP  12 AQU  11 PIS  13 TAU  14 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  14 SCO  
15 VIR  16 SCO  15 SCO  14 SAG  15 AQU  14 PIS  14 ARI  15 GEM  16 LEO  16 VIR  17 SCO  16 SAG  
18 LIB  18 SAG  17 SAG  16 CAP  18 PIS  16 ARI  16 TAU  18 CAN  19 VIR  18 LIB  19 SAG  18 CAP  
20 SCO  20 CAP  19 CAP  18 AQU  20 ARI  19 TAU  19 GEM  20 LEO  21 LIB  20 SCO  21 CAP  20 AQU  
22 SAG  23 AQU  22 AQU  20 PIS  23 TAU  21 GEM  21 CAN  22 VIR  23 SCO  22 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  
24 CAP  25 PIS  24 PIS  23 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  24 LEO  24 LIB  25 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  
26 AQU  27 ARI  27 ARI  25 TAU  28 CAN  26 LEO  26 VIR  26 SCO  27 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  
29 PIS          29 TAU  28 GEM  30 LEO  29 VIR  28 LIB  28 SAG  29 AQU  29 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  
31 ARI                  30 CAN                  30 SCO  31 CAP          31 ARI                  

1942
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 CAN   2 VIR   1 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB  
3 LEO   4 LIB   4 LIB   4 SAG   4 CAP   4 PIS   4 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN   4 LEO   5 LIB   4 SCO  
6 VIR   7 SCO   6 SCO   6 CAP   6 AQU   6 ARI   6 TAU   7 CAN   6 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   6 SAG  
8 LIB   9 SAG   8 SAG   8 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   9 GEM  10 LEO   9 VIR   8 LIB   9 SAG   8 CAP  

10 SCO  11 CAP  10 CAP  11 PIS  10 ARI  11 GEM  11 CAN  12 VIR  11 LIB  10 SCO  11 CAP  10 AQU  
12 SAG  13 AQU  12 AQU  13 ARI  13 TAU  14 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  13 SCO  13 SAG  13 AQU  12 PIS  
14 CAP  15 PIS  14 PIS  15 TAU  15 GEM  16 LEO  16 VIR  17 SCO  15 SAG  15 CAP  15 PIS  15 ARI  
16 AQU  17 ARI  17 ARI  18 GEM  18 CAN  19 VIR  18 LIB  19 SAG  17 CAP  17 AQU  17 ARI  17 TAU  
19 PIS  20 TAU  19 TAU  20 CAN  20 LEO  21 LIB  21 SCO  21 CAP  20 AQU  19 PIS  20 TAU  19 GEM  
21 ARI  22 GEM  21 GEM  23 LEO  23 VIR  23 SCO  23 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  21 ARI  22 GEM  22 CAN  
23 TAU  25 CAN  24 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  23 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  
26 GEM  27 LEO  26 LEO  27 LIB  27 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  
28 CAN          29 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  29 AQU  29 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  29 LIB  
31 LEO          31 LIB          31 CAP          31 ARI                  31 LEO                  

1943
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 SCO   1 CAP   1 CAP   1 PIS   3 TAU   1 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   1 LIB   1 SCO   1 CAP   1 AQU  
3 SAG   3 AQU   3 AQU   3 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN   4 LEO   5 LIB   3 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU   3 PIS  
5 CAP   5 PIS   5 PIS   5 TAU   7 CAN   6 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   6 SAG   5 CAP   6 PIS   5 ARI  
7 AQU   7 ARI   7 ARI   8 GEM  10 LEO   9 VIR   9 LIB  10 SAG   8 CAP   7 AQU   8 ARI   7 TAU  
9 PIS  10 TAU   9 TAU  10 CAN  12 VIR  11 LIB  11 SCO  12 CAP  10 AQU   9 PIS  10 TAU  10 GEM  

11 ARI  12 GEM  11 GEM  13 LEO  15 LIB  14 SCO  13 SAG  14 AQU  12 PIS  12 ARI  12 GEM  12 CAN  
13 TAU  14 CAN  14 CAN  15 VIR  17 SCO  16 SAG  15 CAP  16 PIS  14 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  14 LEO  
16 GEM  17 LEO  16 LEO  18 LIB  19 SAG  18 CAP  17 AQU  18 ARI  16 TAU  16 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  
18 CAN  19 VIR  19 VIR  20 SCO  21 CAP  20 AQU  19 PIS  20 TAU  18 GEM  18 CAN  20 VIR  19 LIB  
21 LEO  22 LIB  21 LIB  22 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  21 ARI  22 GEM  21 CAN  21 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  
23 VIR  24 SCO  23 SCO  24 CAP  26 PIS  24 ARI  23 TAU  25 CAN  23 LEO  23 VIR  24 SCO  24 SAG  
26 LIB  26 SAG  26 SAG  26 AQU  28 ARI  26 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  26 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  
28 SCO          28 CAP  28 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  28 LIB  28 SCO  29 CAP  28 AQU  
30 SAG          30 AQU  30 ARI                  31 LEO                  30 SAG          30 PIS  

4 4 0 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



1944
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 ARI   2 GEM   3 CAN   1 LEO   1 VIR   3 SCO   2 SAG   1 CAP   1 PIS   1 ARI   1 GEM   1 CAN  
3 TAU   4 CAN   5 LEO   4 VIR   4 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP   3 AQU   3 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   3 LEO  
6 GEM   7 LEO   8 VIR   6 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   7 AQU   5 PIS   5 TAU   5 GEM   6 LEO   6 VIR  
8 CAN   9 VIR  10 LIB   9 SCO   9 SAG   9 AQU   9 PIS   7 ARI   8 GEM   7 CAN   8 VIR   8 LIB  

11 LEO  12 LIB  13 SCO  11 SAG  11 CAP  11 PIS  11 ARI   9 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO  11 LIB  11 SCO  
13 VIR  14 SCO  15 SAG  14 CAP  13 AQU  13 ARI  13 TAU  11 GEM  12 LEO  12 VIR  13 SCO  13 SAG  
16 LIB  17 SAG  17 CAP  16 AQU  15 PIS  16 TAU  15 GEM  14 CAN  15 VIR  15 LIB  16 SAG  15 CAP  
18 SCO  19 CAP  19 AQU  18 PIS  17 ARI  18 GEM  17 CAN  16 LEO  17 LIB  17 SCO  18 CAP  18 AQU  
20 SAG  21 AQU  22 PIS  20 ARI  19 TAU  20 CAN  20 LEO  19 VIR  20 SCO  19 SAG  20 AQU  20 PIS  
23 CAP  23 PIS  24 ARI  22 TAU  21 GEM  22 LEO  22 VIR  21 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  23 PIS  22 ARI  
25 AQU  25 ARI  26 TAU  24 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  
27 PIS  27 TAU  28 GEM  26 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  27 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  
29 ARI  29 GEM  30 CAN  29 LEO  29 VIR  30 SCO  30 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  28 ARI  29 GEM  28 CAN  
31 TAU                          31 LIB                  30 AQU          30 TAU          31 LEO  

1945
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 VIR   1 LIB   3 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   2 LEO   2 VIR   1 LIB   3 SAG  
4 LIB   3 SCO   5 SAG   4 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   5 VIR   4 LIB   3 SCO   6 CAP  
7 SCO   6 SAG   8 CAP   6 AQU   6 PIS   6 TAU   6 GEM   6 LEO   7 LIB   7 SCO   6 SAG   8 AQU  
9 SAG   8 CAP  10 AQU   8 PIS   8 ARI   8 GEM   8 CAN   8 VIR  10 SCO  10 SAG   8 CAP  10 PIS  

12 CAP  10 AQU  12 PIS  10 ARI  10 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO  11 LIB  12 SAG  12 CAP  11 AQU  12 ARI  
14 AQU  12 PIS  14 ARI  12 TAU  12 GEM  12 LEO  12 VIR  13 SCO  15 CAP  14 AQU  13 PIS  15 TAU  
16 PIS  14 ARI  16 TAU  14 GEM  14 CAN  15 VIR  15 LIB  16 SAG  17 AQU  17 PIS  15 ARI  17 GEM  
18 ARI  17 TAU  18 GEM  16 CAN  16 LEO  17 LIB  17 SCO  18 CAP  19 PIS  19 ARI  17 TAU  19 CAN  
20 TAU  19 GEM  20 CAN  19 LEO  18 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  21 AQU  21 ARI  21 TAU  19 GEM  21 LEO  
22 GEM  21 CAN  22 LEO  21 VIR  21 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  23 PIS  23 TAU  23 GEM  21 CAN  23 VIR  
25 CAN  23 LEO  25 VIR  24 LIB  23 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  25 GEM  25 CAN  23 LEO  25 LIB  
27 LEO  26 VIR  27 LIB  26 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  26 VIR  28 SCO  
29 VIR  28 LIB  30 SCO  29 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  29 GEM  30 LEO  29 VIR  28 LIB  30 SAG  

31 AQU          31 TAU  31 CAN                  30 SCO          

1946
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 CAP   1 AQU   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   2 CAP   1 AQU   3 ARI  
4 AQU   3 PIS   4 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB   3 SCO   5 CAP   4 AQU   3 PIS   5 TAU  
6 PIS   5 ARI   6 TAU   5 GEM   6 LEO   5 VIR   7 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   7 PIS   5 ARI   7 GEM  
9 ARI   7 TAU   8 GEM   7 CAN   8 VIR   7 LIB   9 SAG   8 CAP   9 PIS   9 ARI   7 TAU   9 CAN  

11 TAU   9 GEM  11 CAN   9 LEO  11 LIB  10 SCO  12 CAP  11 AQU  12 ARI  11 TAU  10 GEM  11 LEO  
13 GEM  11 CAN  13 LEO  11 VIR  13 SCO  12 SAG  14 AQU  13 PIS  14 TAU  13 GEM  12 CAN  13 VIR  
15 CAN  13 LEO  15 VIR  14 LIB  16 SAG  15 CAP  17 PIS  15 ARI  16 GEM  15 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  
17 LEO  16 VIR  17 LIB  16 SCO  18 CAP  17 AQU  19 ARI  17 TAU  18 CAN  17 LEO  16 VIR  18 SCO  
19 VIR  18 LIB  20 SCO  19 SAG  21 AQU  20 PIS  21 TAU  20 GEM  20 LEO  20 VIR  18 LIB  20 SAG  
22 LIB  20 SCO  22 SAG  21 CAP  23 PIS  22 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  22 VIR  22 LIB  20 SCO  23 CAP  
24 SCO  23 SAG  25 CAP  24 AQU  26 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  23 SAG  25 AQU  
27 SAG  26 CAP  27 AQU  26 PIS  28 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  25 CAP  28 PIS  
29 CAP  28 AQU  30 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  28 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  28 AQU  30 ARI  

30 TAU          30 LEO          31 SCO                  30 PIS          

1947
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 TAU   2 CAN   1 CAN   2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO  
3 GEM   4 LEO   3 LEO   4 LIB   3 SCO   5 CAP   4 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   4 GEM   4 LEO   3 VIR  
5 CAN   6 VIR   5 VIR   6 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   7 PIS   6 ARI   6 GEM   6 CAN   6 VIR   6 LIB  
7 LEO   8 LIB   7 LIB   8 SAG   8 CAP  10 PIS   9 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN   8 LEO   8 LIB   8 SCO  
9 VIR  10 SCO  10 SCO  11 CAP  11 AQU  12 ARI  12 TAU  10 GEM  11 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO  10 SAG  

12 LIB  13 SAG  12 SAG  13 AQU  13 PIS  14 TAU  14 GEM  12 CAN  13 VIR  12 LIB  13 SAG  13 CAP  
14 SCO  15 CAP  15 CAP  16 PIS  16 ARI  16 GEM  16 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  14 SCO  15 CAP  15 AQU  
16 SAG  18 AQU  17 AQU  18 ARI  18 TAU  18 CAN  18 LEO  16 VIR  17 SCO  17 SAG  18 AQU  18 PIS  
19 CAP  20 PIS  20 PIS  20 TAU  20 GEM  20 LEO  20 VIR  18 LIB  19 SAG  19 CAP  20 PIS  20 ARI  
22 AQU  23 ARI  22 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  22 VIR  22 LIB  20 SCO  22 CAP  22 AQU  23 ARI  23 TAU  
24 PIS  25 TAU  24 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  23 SAG  24 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  
26 ARI  27 GEM  26 GEM  27 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  25 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  
29 TAU          28 CAN  29 VIR  28 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  
31 GEM          31 LEO          31 SCO                  30 PIS          31 GEM          31 VIR  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 4 1



1948
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 LIB   3 SAG   1 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS   1 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   2 CAP  
4 SCO   5 CAP   3 CAP   5 PIS   5 ARI   3 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   4 LIB   3 SCO   4 CAP   4 AQU  
6 SAG   8 AQU   6 AQU   7 ARI   7 TAU   6 GEM   5 CAN   6 VIR   6 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   6 PIS  
9 CAP  10 PIS   8 PIS  10 TAU   9 GEM   8 CAN   7 LEO   8 LIB   8 SAG   8 CAP   9 PIS   9 ARI  

11 AQU  13 ARI  11 ARI  12 GEM  11 CAN  10 LEO   9 VIR  10 SCO  11 CAP  10 AQU  12 ARI  12 TAU  
14 PIS  15 TAU  13 TAU  14 CAN  14 LEO  12 VIR  11 LIB  12 SAG  13 AQU  13 PIS  14 TAU  14 GEM  
16 ARI  17 GEM  16 GEM  16 LEO  16 VIR  14 LIB  13 SCO  14 CAP  16 PIS  15 ARI  17 GEM  16 CAN  
19 TAU  20 CAN  18 CAN  18 VIR  18 LIB  16 SCO  16 SAG  17 AQU  18 ARI  18 TAU  19 CAN  18 LEO  
21 GEM  22 LEO  20 LEO  21 LIB  20 SCO  18 SAG  18 CAP  19 PIS  21 TAU  20 GEM  21 LEO  20 VIR  
23 CAN  24 VIR  22 VIR  23 SCO  22 SAG  21 CAP  21 AQU  22 ARI  23 GEM  23 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  
25 LEO  26 LIB  24 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  23 AQU  23 PIS  24 TAU  25 CAN  25 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  
27 VIR  28 SCO  26 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  26 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  
29 LIB          28 SAG  30 AQU  29 PIS  28 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  29 VIR  29 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  
31 SCO          31 CAP                          30 GEM  31 LEO          31 SCO          31 AQU  

1949
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
3 PIS   2 ARI   1 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   3 PIS   2 ARI   1 TAU  
5 ARI   4 TAU   3 TAU   5 CAN   4 LEO   5 LIB   4 SCO   5 CAP   3 AQU   5 ARI   4 TAU   4 GEM  
8 TAU   7 GEM   6 GEM   7 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   6 PIS   8 TAU   7 GEM   6 CAN  

10 GEM   9 CAN   8 CAN   9 VIR   8 LIB   9 SAG   8 CAP   9 PIS   8 ARI  10 GEM   9 CAN   9 LEO  
12 CAN  11 LEO  10 LEO  11 LIB  10 SCO  11 CAP  11 AQU  12 ARI  11 TAU  13 CAN  11 LEO  11 VIR  
15 LEO  13 VIR  13 VIR  13 SCO  12 SAG  13 AQU  13 PIS  14 TAU  13 GEM  15 LEO  14 VIR  13 LIB  
17 VIR  15 LIB  14 LIB  15 SAG  15 CAP  16 PIS  15 ARI  17 GEM  15 CAN  17 VIR  16 LIB  15 SCO  
19 LIB  17 SCO  16 SCO  17 CAP  17 AQU  18 ARI  18 TAU  19 CAN  18 LEO  19 LIB  18 SCO  17 SAG  
21 SCO  19 SAG  19 SAG  19 AQU  19 PIS  21 TAU  20 GEM  21 LEO  20 VIR  21 SCO  20 SAG  19 CAP  
23 SAG  22 CAP  21 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  23 GEM  23 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  23 SAG  22 CAP  21 AQU  
25 CAP  24 AQU  23 AQU  24 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  25 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  24 PIS  
28 AQU  26 PIS  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 GEM  28 LEO  27 VIR  27 SCO  26 SAG  28 AQU  26 PIS  26 ARI  
30 PIS          28 ARI  29 GEM  29 CAN  30 VIR  29 LIB  30 SAG  28 CAP  30 PIS  29 ARI  29 TAU  

31 TAU          31 LEO          31 SCO          30 AQU                  31 GEM  

1950
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
3 CAN   1 LEO   1 LEO   1 LIB   1 SCO   1 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   3 GEM   3 CAN   2 LEO   1 VIR  
5 LEO   3 VIR   3 VIR   3 SCO   3 SAG   3 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   5 CAN   5 LEO   4 VIR   3 LIB  
7 VIR   6 LIB   5 LIB   5 SAG   5 CAP   5 PIS   5 ARI   7 GEM   8 LEO   7 VIR   6 LIB   6 SCO  
9 LIB   8 SCO   7 SCO   7 CAP   7 AQU   8 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN  10 VIR  10 LIB   8 SCO   8 SAG  

11 SCO  10 SAG   9 SAG  10 AQU   9 PIS  10 TAU  10 GEM  11 LEO  12 LIB  12 SCO  10 SAG  10 CAP  
14 SAG  12 CAP  11 CAP  12 PIS  12 ARI  13 GEM  13 CAN  14 VIR  14 SCO  14 SAG  12 CAP  12 AQU  
16 CAP  14 AQU  13 AQU  14 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  15 LEO  16 LIB  16 SAG  16 CAP  14 AQU  14 PIS  
18 AQU  16 PIS  16 PIS  17 TAU  17 GEM  18 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  18 CAP  18 AQU  16 PIS  16 ARI  
20 PIS  19 ARI  18 ARI  19 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  20 SAG  21 AQU  20 PIS  19 ARI  19 TAU  
22 ARI  21 TAU  21 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  22 CAP  23 PIS  23 ARI  21 TAU  21 GEM  
25 TAU  24 GEM  23 GEM  24 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  24 AQU  25 ARI  25 TAU  24 GEM  24 CAN  
28 GEM  26 CAN  26 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  28 TAU  28 GEM  26 CAN  26 LEO  
30 CAN          28 LEO  29 LIB  28 SCO  29 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  30 GEM  30 CAN  29 LEO  28 VIR  

30 VIR          30 SAG          30 PIS  31 TAU                          31 LIB  

1951
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 SCO   2 CAP   2 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI   3 GEM   3 CAN   1 LEO   3 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU  
4 SAG   4 AQU   4 AQU   5 ARI   4 TAU   5 CAN   5 LEO   4 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG   3 CAP   4 PIS  
6 CAP   7 PIS   6 PIS   7 TAU   7 GEM   8 LEO   8 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP   5 AQU   6 ARI  
8 AQU   9 ARI   8 ARI   9 GEM   9 CAN  10 VIR  10 LIB   9 SCO   9 CAP   8 AQU   7 PIS   9 TAU  

10 PIS  11 TAU  11 TAU  12 CAN  12 LEO  13 LIB  12 SCO  11 SAG  11 AQU  11 PIS   9 ARI  11 GEM  
12 ARI  14 GEM  13 GEM  14 LEO  14 VIR  15 SCO  14 SAG  13 CAP  13 PIS  13 ARI  11 TAU  13 CAN  
15 TAU  16 CAN  16 CAN  17 VIR  16 LIB  17 SAG  16 CAP  15 AQU  15 ARI  15 TAU  14 GEM  16 LEO  
17 GEM  19 LEO  18 LEO  19 LIB  19 SCO  19 CAP  18 AQU  17 PIS  18 TAU  17 GEM  16 CAN  19 VIR  
20 CAN  21 VIR  20 VIR  21 SCO  21 SAG  21 AQU  20 PIS  19 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  19 LEO  21 LIB  
22 LEO  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 SAG  23 CAP  23 PIS  23 ARI  21 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  21 VIR  23 SCO  
25 VIR  25 SCO  25 SCO  25 CAP  25 AQU  25 ARI  25 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  25 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  
27 LIB  28 SAG  27 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  28 TAU  27 GEM  26 CAN  28 VIR  27 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  
29 SCO          29 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  30 GEM  30 CAN  29 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  28 SAG  29 AQU  
31 SAG          31 AQU          31 TAU                  31 VIR                  30 CAP  31 PIS  

4 4 2 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



1952
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
3 ARI   1 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN   3 VIR   2 LIB   2 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN  
5 TAU   3 GEM   4 CAN   3 LEO   5 LIB   4 SCO   4 SAG   4 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   3 GEM   5 LEO  
7 GEM   6 CAN   7 LEO   6 VIR   8 SCO   6 SAG   6 CAP   6 PIS   5 ARI   6 GEM   5 CAN   7 VIR  

10 CAN   9 LEO   9 VIR   8 LIB  10 SAG   8 CAP   8 AQU   8 ARI   7 TAU   9 CAN   7 LEO  10 LIB  
12 LEO  11 VIR  12 LIB  10 SCO  12 CAP  10 AQU  10 PIS  10 TAU   9 GEM  11 LEO  10 VIR  12 SCO  
15 VIR  14 LIB  14 SCO  13 SAG  14 AQU  12 PIS  12 ARI  13 GEM  11 CAN  14 VIR  13 LIB  15 SAG  
17 LIB  16 SCO  16 SAG  15 CAP  16 PIS  15 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  14 LEO  16 LIB  15 SCO  17 CAP  
20 SCO  18 SAG  19 CAP  17 AQU  18 ARI  17 TAU  16 GEM  18 LEO  16 VIR  19 SCO  17 SAG  19 AQU  
22 SAG  20 CAP  21 AQU  19 PIS  21 TAU  19 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  19 LIB  21 SAG  19 CAP  21 PIS  
24 CAP  22 AQU  23 PIS  21 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  21 LEO  23 LIB  21 SCO  23 CAP  21 AQU  23 ARI  
26 AQU  24 PIS  25 ARI  23 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  
28 PIS  26 ARI  27 TAU  26 GEM  28 LEO  27 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  
30 ARI  29 TAU  29 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  29 LIB  29 SCO  30 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  28 TAU  30 CAN  

30 LEO                  31 SAG          30 PIS          30 GEM          

1953
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 LEO   3 LIB   2 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   1 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO  
4 VIR   5 SCO   4 SCO   3 SAG   5 AQU   3 PIS   5 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   4 VIR   5 SCO   5 SAG  
6 LIB   7 SAG   7 SAG   5 CAP   7 PIS   5 ARI   7 GEM   5 CAN   6 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   7 CAP  
9 SCO  10 CAP   9 CAP   7 AQU   9 ARI   7 TAU   9 CAN   8 LEO   9 LIB   9 SCO  10 CAP   9 AQU  

11 SAG  12 AQU  11 AQU  10 PIS  11 TAU   9 GEM  11 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO  11 SAG  12 AQU  11 PIS  
13 CAP  14 PIS  13 PIS  12 ARI  13 GEM  12 CAN  14 VIR  13 LIB  14 SAG  13 CAP  14 PIS  14 ARI  
15 AQU  16 ARI  15 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  14 LEO  16 LIB  15 SCO  16 CAP  16 AQU  16 ARI  16 TAU  
17 PIS  18 TAU  17 TAU  16 GEM  18 LEO  16 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  18 AQU  18 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  
19 ARI  20 GEM  19 GEM  18 CAN  20 VIR  19 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  21 PIS  20 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  
21 TAU  22 CAN  22 CAN  20 LEO  23 LIB  21 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  22 ARI  22 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  
24 GEM  25 LEO  24 LEO  23 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  26 AQU  24 PIS  24 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  25 VIR  
26 CAN  27 VIR  27 VIR  25 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  28 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  
28 LEO          29 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  28 AQU  30 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  28 LEO  30 LIB  30 SCO  
31 VIR                  30 SAG          30 PIS          30 GEM          31 VIR                  

1954
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 SAG   2 AQU   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   1 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS  
3 CAP   4 PIS   3 PIS   4 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   4 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG   4 CAP   5 PIS   4 ARI  
6 AQU   6 ARI   5 ARI   6 GEM   5 CAN   6 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   6 TAU  
8 PIS   8 TAU   7 TAU   8 CAN   8 LEO   9 LIB   9 SCO  10 CAP   9 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   8 GEM  

10 ARI  10 GEM  10 GEM  10 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO  11 SAG  12 AQU  11 PIS  10 ARI  11 GEM  10 CAN  
12 TAU  13 CAN  12 CAN  13 VIR  12 LIB  14 SAG  14 CAP  14 PIS  13 ARI  12 TAU  13 CAN  12 LEO  
14 GEM  15 LEO  14 LEO  15 LIB  15 SCO  16 CAP  16 AQU  16 ARI  15 TAU  14 GEM  15 LEO  14 VIR  
16 CAN  17 VIR  16 VIR  18 SCO  17 SAG  19 AQU  18 PIS  19 TAU  17 GEM  16 CAN  17 VIR  17 LIB  
19 LEO  20 LIB  19 LIB  20 SAG  20 CAP  21 PIS  20 ARI  21 GEM  19 CAN  19 LEO  20 LIB  19 SCO  
21 VIR  22 SCO  21 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  23 CAN  21 LEO  21 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  
23 LIB  25 SAG  24 SAG  25 AQU  25 PIS  25 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  23 LIB  25 SAG  24 CAP  
26 SCO  27 CAP  26 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  
28 SAG          29 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  28 SAG  30 AQU  29 PIS  
31 CAP          31 PIS          31 GEM          31 VIR                  31 CAP          31 ARI  

1955
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
3 TAU   1 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   1 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   1 PIS   1 ARI   1 GEM   1 CAN  
5 GEM   3 CAN   4 LEO   3 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG   3 CAP   5 PIS   3 ARI   3 TAU   3 CAN   3 LEO  
7 CAN   5 LEO   7 VIR   5 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   5 TAU   5 GEM   5 LEO   5 VIR  
9 LEO   7 VIR   9 LIB   8 SCO  10 CAP   9 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   7 GEM   7 CAN   7 VIR   7 LIB  

11 VIR  10 LIB  11 SCO  10 SAG  12 AQU  11 PIS  11 ARI  11 GEM  10 CAN   9 LEO  10 LIB   9 SCO  
13 LIB  12 SCO  14 SAG  13 CAP  15 PIS  13 ARI  13 TAU  13 CAN  12 LEO  11 VIR  12 SCO  12 SAG  
16 SCO  15 SAG  16 CAP  15 AQU  17 ARI  16 TAU  15 GEM  15 LEO  14 VIR  13 LIB  15 SAG  14 CAP  
18 SAG  17 CAP  19 AQU  18 PIS  19 TAU  18 GEM  17 CAN  18 VIR  16 LIB  16 SCO  17 CAP  17 AQU  
21 CAP  19 AQU  21 PIS  20 ARI  21 GEM  20 CAN  19 LEO  20 LIB  18 SCO  18 SAG  20 AQU  19 PIS  
23 AQU  22 PIS  23 ARI  22 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  21 VIR  22 SCO  21 SAG  21 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  
25 PIS  24 ARI  25 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  23 LIB  25 SAG  23 CAP  23 AQU  24 ARI  24 TAU  
28 ARI  26 TAU  27 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  26 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  
30 TAU  28 GEM  29 CAN  28 LEO  30 LIB  28 SCO  28 SAG  30 AQU  28 PIS  28 ARI  29 GEM  28 CAN  

30 VIR                  31 CAP                  30 TAU          30 LEO  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 4 3



1956
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 VIR   2 SCO   3 SAG   1 CAP   1 AQU   3 ARI   2 TAU   1 GEM   1 LEO   1 VIR   1 SCO   1 SAG  
3 LIB   4 SAG   5 CAP   4 AQU   4 PIS   5 TAU   4 GEM   3 CAN   3 VIR   3 LIB   3 SAG   3 CAP  
6 SCO   7 CAP   8 AQU   6 PIS   6 ARI   7 GEM   6 CAN   5 LEO   5 LIB   5 SCO   6 CAP   6 AQU  
8 SAG   9 AQU  10 PIS   9 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN   8 LEO   7 VIR   7 SCO   7 SAG   8 AQU   8 PIS  

11 CAP  12 PIS  12 ARI  11 TAU  11 GEM  11 LEO  10 VIR   9 LIB  10 SAG  10 CAP  11 PIS  11 ARI  
13 AQU  14 ARI  15 TAU  13 GEM  13 CAN  13 VIR  12 LIB  11 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  13 ARI  13 TAU  
16 PIS  16 TAU  17 GEM  15 CAN  15 LEO  15 LIB  15 SCO  13 SAG  15 AQU  15 PIS  16 TAU  15 GEM  
18 ARI  19 GEM  19 CAN  17 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  17 SAG  16 CAP  17 PIS  17 ARI  18 GEM  17 CAN  
20 TAU  21 CAN  21 LEO  20 VIR  19 LIB  20 SAG  20 CAP  18 AQU  20 ARI  19 TAU  20 CAN  19 LEO  
22 GEM  23 LEO  23 VIR  22 LIB  21 SCO  22 CAP  22 AQU  21 PIS  22 TAU  22 GEM  22 LEO  21 VIR  
24 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  24 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  25 PIS  23 ARI  24 GEM  24 CAN  24 VIR  24 LIB  
26 LEO  27 LIB  28 SCO  26 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  26 TAU  26 CAN  26 LEO  26 LIB  26 SCO  
28 VIR  29 SCO  30 SAG  29 CAP  29 AQU  30 ARI  30 TAU  28 GEM  29 LEO  28 VIR  29 SCO  28 SAG  
31 LIB                          31 PIS                  30 CAN          30 LIB          31 CAP  

1957
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 AQU   1 PIS   3 ARI   1 TAU   1 GEM   1 LEO   1 VIR   1 SCO   2 CAP   2 AQU   1 PIS   1 ARI  
5 PIS   3 ARI   5 TAU   4 GEM   3 CAN   4 VIR   3 LIB   4 SAG   5 AQU   4 PIS   3 ARI   3 TAU  
7 ARI   6 TAU   7 GEM   6 CAN   5 LEO   6 LIB   5 SCO   6 CAP   7 PIS   7 ARI   6 TAU   5 GEM  
9 TAU   8 GEM  10 CAN   8 LEO   7 VIR   8 SCO   7 SAG   8 AQU  10 ARI   9 TAU   8 GEM   8 CAN  

12 GEM  10 CAN  12 LEO  10 VIR   9 LIB  10 SAG  10 CAP  11 PIS  12 TAU  12 GEM  10 CAN  10 LEO  
14 CAN  12 LEO  14 VIR  12 LIB  12 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  13 ARI  15 GEM  14 CAN  13 LEO  12 VIR  
16 LEO  14 VIR  16 LIB  14 SCO  14 SAG  15 AQU  15 PIS  16 TAU  17 CAN  16 LEO  15 VIR  14 LIB  
18 VIR  16 LIB  18 SCO  16 SAG  16 CAP  17 PIS  17 ARI  18 GEM  19 LEO  18 VIR  17 LIB  16 SCO  
20 LIB  18 SCO  20 SAG  19 CAP  18 AQU  20 ARI  20 TAU  21 CAN  21 VIR  21 LIB  19 SCO  18 SAG  
22 SCO  21 SAG  22 CAP  21 AQU  21 PIS  22 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  23 LIB  23 SCO  21 SAG  21 CAP  
24 SAG  23 CAP  25 AQU  24 PIS  23 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  25 SCO  25 SAG  23 CAP  23 AQU  
27 CAP  26 AQU  27 PIS  26 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  27 SAG  27 CAP  26 AQU  25 PIS  
29 AQU  28 PIS  30 ARI  29 TAU  28 GEM  29 LEO  28 VIR  29 SCO  29 CAP  29 AQU  28 PIS  28 ARI  

30 CAN          30 LIB  31 SAG                          30 TAU  

1958
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 GEM   3 LEO   2 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   3 CAP   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN   3 VIR  
4 CAN   5 VIR   4 VIR   3 LIB   4 SAG   5 AQU   4 PIS   3 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN   3 LEO   5 LIB  
6 LEO   7 LIB   6 LIB   5 SCO   6 CAP   7 PIS   7 ARI   6 TAU   7 CAN   7 LEO   5 VIR   7 SCO  
8 VIR   9 SCO   8 SCO   7 SAG   8 AQU  10 ARI   9 TAU   8 GEM   9 LEO   9 VIR   7 LIB   9 SAG  

10 LIB  11 SAG  10 SAG   9 CAP  11 PIS  12 TAU  12 GEM  11 CAN  11 VIR  11 LIB   9 SCO  11 CAP  
12 SCO  13 CAP  12 CAP  11 AQU  13 ARI  15 GEM  14 CAN  13 LEO  13 LIB  13 SCO  11 SAG  13 AQU  
15 SAG  16 AQU  15 AQU  13 PIS  16 TAU  17 CAN  17 LEO  15 VIR  15 SCO  15 SAG  13 CAP  15 PIS  
17 CAP  18 PIS  17 PIS  16 ARI  18 GEM  19 LEO  19 VIR  17 LIB  18 SAG  17 CAP  16 AQU  18 ARI  
19 AQU  21 ARI  20 ARI  19 TAU  21 CAN  21 VIR  21 LIB  19 SCO  20 CAP  19 AQU  18 PIS  20 TAU  
22 PIS  23 TAU  22 TAU  21 GEM  23 LEO  24 LIB  23 SCO  21 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  20 ARI  23 GEM  
24 ARI  26 GEM  25 GEM  23 CAN  25 VIR  26 SCO  25 SAG  23 CAP  24 PIS  24 ARI  23 TAU  25 CAN  
27 TAU  28 CAN  27 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  28 SAG  27 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  25 GEM  27 LEO  
29 GEM          29 LEO  28 VIR  29 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  29 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  
31 CAN                  30 LIB  31 SAG                  31 ARI                  30 LEO          

1959
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 LIB   1 SAG   1 SAG   1 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP  
3 SCO   4 CAP   3 CAP   4 PIS   3 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB   3 SCO   4 CAP   3 AQU  
5 SAG   6 AQU   5 AQU   6 ARI   6 TAU   7 CAN   7 LEO   5 VIR   6 SCO   5 SAG   6 AQU   5 PIS  
7 CAP   8 PIS   7 PIS   8 TAU   8 GEM   9 LEO   9 VIR   8 LIB   8 SAG   7 CAP   8 PIS   8 ARI  
9 AQU  10 ARI  10 ARI  11 GEM  11 CAN  12 VIR  11 LIB  10 SCO  10 CAP  10 AQU  10 ARI  10 TAU  

12 PIS  13 TAU  12 TAU  14 CAN  13 LEO  14 LIB  13 SCO  12 SAG  12 AQU  12 PIS  13 TAU  13 GEM  
14 ARI  15 GEM  15 GEM  16 LEO  16 VIR  16 SCO  16 SAG  14 CAP  15 PIS  14 ARI  15 GEM  15 CAN  
17 TAU  18 CAN  17 CAN  18 VIR  18 LIB  18 SAG  18 CAP  16 AQU  17 ARI  17 TAU  18 CAN  18 LEO  
19 GEM  20 LEO  20 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  18 PIS  19 TAU  19 GEM  20 LEO  20 VIR  
21 CAN  22 VIR  22 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  20 ARI  22 GEM  22 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  
24 LEO  24 LIB  24 LIB  24 SAG  24 CAP  24 PIS  24 ARI  23 TAU  24 CAN  24 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  
26 VIR  27 SCO  26 SCO  26 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  25 GEM  27 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  
28 LIB          28 SAG  28 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  29 GEM  28 CAN  29 VIR  29 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  
30 SCO          30 CAP          30 ARI                  30 LEO          31 SCO          31 AQU  

4 4 4 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



1960
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 PIS   3 TAU   1 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO   1 VIR   1 LIB   1 SAG   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   2 GEM  
4 ARI   5 GEM   4 GEM   5 LEO   5 VIR   3 LIB   3 SCO   3 CAP   4 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   4 CAN  
6 TAU   8 CAN   6 CAN   7 VIR   7 LIB   6 SCO   5 SAG   5 AQU   6 ARI   6 TAU   7 CAN   7 LEO  
9 GEM  10 LEO   9 LEO  10 LIB   9 SCO   8 SAG   7 CAP   7 PIS   8 TAU   8 GEM   9 LEO   9 VIR  

11 CAN  13 VIR  11 VIR  12 SCO  11 SAG  10 CAP   9 AQU  10 ARI  11 GEM  10 CAN  12 VIR  12 LIB  
14 LEO  15 LIB  13 LIB  14 SAG  13 CAP  12 AQU  11 PIS  12 TAU  13 CAN  13 LEO  14 LIB  14 SCO  
16 VIR  17 SCO  15 SCO  16 CAP  15 AQU  14 PIS  13 ARI  14 GEM  16 LEO  15 VIR  16 SCO  16 SAG  
19 LIB  19 SAG  17 SAG  18 AQU  17 PIS  16 ARI  15 TAU  17 CAN  18 VIR  18 LIB  19 SAG  18 CAP  
21 SCO  21 CAP  20 CAP  20 PIS  20 ARI  18 TAU  18 GEM  19 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  21 CAP  20 AQU  
23 SAG  23 AQU  22 AQU  22 ARI  22 TAU  21 GEM  20 CAN  22 VIR  23 SCO  22 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  
25 CAP  26 PIS  24 PIS  25 TAU  24 GEM  23 CAN  23 LEO  24 LIB  25 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  
27 AQU  28 ARI  26 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  26 LEO  25 VIR  26 SCO  27 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  
29 PIS          28 TAU  30 CAN  29 LEO  28 VIR  28 LIB  29 SAG  29 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  29 GEM  
31 ARI          31 GEM                          30 SCO  31 CAP          31 ARI          31 CAN  

1961
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
3 LEO   2 VIR   1 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   3 LEO   2 VIR   1 LIB  
5 VIR   4 LIB   3 LIB   4 SAG   4 CAP   4 PIS   4 ARI   4 GEM   3 CAN   5 VIR   4 LIB   4 SCO  
8 LIB   6 SCO   6 SCO   6 CAP   6 AQU   6 ARI   6 TAU   7 CAN   5 LEO   8 LIB   6 SCO   6 SAG  

10 SCO   9 SAG   8 SAG   9 AQU   8 PIS   8 TAU   8 GEM   9 LEO   8 VIR  10 SCO   9 SAG   8 CAP  
12 SAG  11 CAP  10 CAP  11 PIS  10 ARI  11 GEM  10 CAN  12 VIR  10 LIB  13 SAG  11 CAP  10 AQU  
14 CAP  13 AQU  12 AQU  13 ARI  12 TAU  13 CAN  13 LEO  14 LIB  13 SCO  15 CAP  13 AQU  13 PIS  
16 AQU  15 PIS  14 PIS  15 TAU  14 GEM  16 LEO  15 VIR  17 SCO  15 SAG  17 AQU  15 PIS  15 ARI  
18 PIS  17 ARI  16 ARI  17 GEM  17 CAN  18 VIR  18 LIB  19 SAG  18 CAP  19 PIS  17 ARI  17 TAU  
20 ARI  19 TAU  18 TAU  19 CAN  19 LEO  21 LIB  20 SCO  21 CAP  20 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  19 GEM  
23 TAU  21 GEM  21 GEM  22 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  23 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  21 CAN  
25 GEM  24 CAN  23 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  24 LEO  
28 CAN  26 LEO  26 LEO  27 LIB  27 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  28 CAN  26 LEO  26 VIR  
30 LEO          28 VIR  29 SCO  29 SAG  29 AQU  29 PIS  29 TAU  28 GEM  30 LEO  29 VIR  29 LIB  

31 LIB          31 CAP          31 ARI          30 CAN                  31 SCO  

1962
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
3 SAG   1 CAP   1 CAP   1 PIS   1 ARI   1 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   3 SCO   3 SAG   1 CAP   1 AQU  
5 CAP   3 AQU   3 AQU   3 ARI   3 TAU   3 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB   5 SAG   5 CAP   4 AQU   3 PIS  
7 AQU   5 PIS   5 PIS   5 TAU   5 GEM   6 LEO   5 VIR   7 SCO   8 CAP   7 AQU   6 PIS   5 ARI  
9 PIS   7 ARI   7 ARI   7 GEM   7 CAN   8 VIR   8 LIB   9 SAG  10 AQU  10 PIS   8 ARI   7 TAU  

11 ARI   9 TAU   9 TAU   9 CAN   9 LEO  10 LIB  10 SCO  11 CAP  12 PIS  12 ARI  10 TAU   9 GEM  
13 TAU  12 GEM  11 GEM  12 LEO  12 VIR  13 SCO  13 SAG  14 AQU  14 ARI  13 TAU  12 GEM  11 CAN  
15 GEM  14 CAN  13 CAN  14 VIR  14 LIB  15 SAG  15 CAP  16 PIS  16 TAU  15 GEM  14 CAN  14 LEO  
18 CAN  16 LEO  16 LEO  17 LIB  17 SCO  18 CAP  17 AQU  18 ARI  18 GEM  18 CAN  16 LEO  16 VIR  
20 LEO  19 VIR  18 VIR  19 SCO  19 SAG  20 AQU  19 PIS  20 TAU  20 CAN  20 LEO  19 VIR  19 LIB  
23 VIR  21 LIB  21 LIB  22 SAG  21 CAP  22 PIS  21 ARI  22 GEM  23 LEO  22 VIR  21 LIB  21 SCO  
25 LIB  24 SCO  23 SCO  24 CAP  24 AQU  24 ARI  23 TAU  24 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  24 SCO  24 SAG  
28 SCO  26 SAG  26 SAG  26 AQU  26 PIS  26 TAU  26 GEM  26 LEO  28 LIB  27 SCO  26 SAG  26 CAP  
30 SAG          28 CAP  28 PIS  28 ARI  28 GEM  28 CAN  29 VIR  30 SCO  30 SAG  29 CAP  28 AQU  

30 AQU          30 TAU          30 LEO  31 LIB                          30 PIS  

1963
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 ARI   2 GEM   1 GEM   2 LEO   2 VIR   3 SCO   3 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN  
4 TAU   4 CAN   3 CAN   4 VIR   4 LIB   5 SAG   5 CAP   4 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU   4 CAN   4 LEO  
6 GEM   6 LEO   6 LEO   7 LIB   7 SCO   8 CAP   7 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   6 GEM   6 LEO   6 VIR  
8 CAN   9 VIR   8 VIR   9 SCO   9 SAG  10 AQU  10 PIS   8 ARI   9 GEM   8 CAN   9 VIR   8 LIB  

10 LEO  11 LIB  11 LIB  12 SAG  12 CAP  12 PIS  12 ARI  10 TAU  11 CAN  10 LEO  11 LIB  11 SCO  
12 VIR  14 SCO  13 SCO  14 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  12 GEM  13 LEO  12 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  
15 LIB  16 SAG  16 SAG  17 AQU  16 PIS  17 TAU  16 GEM  14 CAN  15 VIR  15 LIB  16 SAG  16 CAP  
17 SCO  19 CAP  18 CAP  19 PIS  18 ARI  19 GEM  18 CAN  17 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  19 CAP  18 AQU  
20 SAG  21 AQU  20 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  21 CAN  20 LEO  19 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  21 AQU  21 PIS  
22 CAP  23 PIS  23 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  23 VIR  21 LIB  23 SAG  22 CAP  24 PIS  23 ARI  
25 AQU  25 ARI  25 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  25 AQU  26 ARI  25 TAU  
27 PIS  27 TAU  26 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  28 LIB  27 SCO  26 SAG  28 AQU  27 PIS  28 TAU  27 GEM  
29 ARI          29 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  30 SCO  30 SAG  29 CAP  30 PIS  29 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  
31 TAU          31 CAN          31 LIB                  31 AQU          31 TAU          31 LEO  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 4 5



1964
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   2 LEO   2 VIR   3 SCO   2 SAG  
5 LIB   4 SCO   4 SAG   3 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU   4 CAN   5 VIR   4 LIB   5 SAG   5 CAP  
7 SCO   6 SAG   7 CAP   6 AQU   5 PIS   6 TAU   6 GEM   6 LEO   7 LIB   6 SCO   8 CAP   7 AQU  

10 SAG   9 CAP   9 AQU   8 PIS   8 ARI   8 GEM   8 CAN   8 VIR   9 SCO   9 SAG  10 AQU  10 PIS  
12 CAP  11 AQU  12 PIS  10 ARI  10 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO  10 LIB  11 SAG  11 CAP  13 PIS  12 ARI  
15 AQU  13 PIS  14 ARI  12 TAU  12 GEM  12 LEO  12 VIR  13 SCO  14 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  15 TAU  
17 PIS  16 ARI  16 TAU  14 GEM  14 CAN  14 VIR  14 LIB  15 SAG  16 AQU  16 PIS  17 TAU  17 GEM  
19 ARI  18 TAU  18 GEM  16 CAN  16 LEO  17 LIB  16 SCO  18 CAP  19 PIS  19 ARI  19 GEM  19 CAN  
21 TAU  20 GEM  20 CAN  19 LEO  18 VIR  19 SCO  19 SAG  20 AQU  21 ARI  21 TAU  21 CAN  21 LEO  
24 GEM  22 CAN  22 LEO  21 VIR  20 LIB  22 SAG  21 CAP  23 PIS  23 TAU  23 GEM  23 LEO  23 VIR  
26 CAN  24 LEO  25 VIR  23 LIB  23 SCO  24 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  25 GEM  25 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  
28 LEO  26 VIR  27 LIB  26 SCO  25 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  28 CAN  27 LEO  28 LIB  27 SCO  
30 VIR  28 LIB  29 SCO  28 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  29 GEM  30 LEO  29 VIR  30 SCO  30 SAG  

30 AQU          31 TAU  31 CAN          31 LIB                  

1965
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 CAP   2 PIS   2 PIS   3 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   3 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI  
4 AQU   5 ARI   4 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP   4 AQU   5 ARI   5 TAU  
6 PIS   7 TAU   6 TAU   7 CAN   6 LEO   5 VIR   6 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   7 GEM  
9 ARI   9 GEM   9 GEM   9 LEO   8 VIR   7 LIB   9 SAG  10 AQU   9 PIS   9 ARI   9 GEM   9 CAN  

11 TAU  11 CAN  11 CAN  11 VIR  11 LIB   9 SCO  11 CAP  13 PIS  11 ARI  11 TAU  12 CAN  11 LEO  
13 GEM  13 LEO  13 LEO  13 LIB  13 SCO  12 SAG  14 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  13 GEM  14 LEO  13 VIR  
15 CAN  16 VIR  15 VIR  16 SCO  15 SAG  14 CAP  16 PIS  17 TAU  16 GEM  15 CAN  16 VIR  15 LIB  
17 LEO  18 LIB  17 LIB  18 SAG  18 CAP  16 AQU  19 ARI  20 GEM  18 CAN  17 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  
19 VIR  20 SCO  19 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  19 PIS  21 TAU  22 CAN  20 LEO  20 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  
21 LIB  22 SAG  22 SAG  23 AQU  23 PIS  21 ARI  23 GEM  24 LEO  22 VIR  22 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  
23 SCO  25 CAP  24 CAP  25 PIS  25 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  26 VIR  24 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  25 AQU  
26 SAG  27 AQU  27 AQU  28 ARI  27 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  28 LIB  26 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  
28 CAP          29 PIS  30 TAU  30 GEM  28 CAN  29 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  28 CAP  30 PIS  30 ARI  
31 AQU          31 ARI                  30 LEO  31 LIB                  31 AQU                  

1966
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 TAU   2 CAN   1 CAN   2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO  
3 GEM   4 LEO   3 LEO   4 LIB   3 SCO   4 CAP   4 AQU   5 ARI   4 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   4 VIR  
5 CAN   6 VIR   5 VIR   6 SCO   5 SAG   6 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   6 GEM   6 CAN   6 VIR   6 LIB  
7 LEO   8 LIB   7 LIB   8 SAG   8 CAP   9 PIS   9 ARI  10 GEM   9 CAN   8 LEO   8 LIB   8 SCO  
9 VIR  10 SCO   9 SCO  10 CAP  10 AQU  11 ARI  11 TAU  12 CAN  11 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO  10 SAG  

11 LIB  12 SAG  12 SAG  13 AQU  12 PIS  14 TAU  14 GEM  14 LEO  13 VIR  12 LIB  13 SAG  12 CAP  
14 SCO  15 CAP  14 CAP  15 PIS  15 ARI  16 GEM  16 CAN  16 VIR  15 LIB  14 SCO  15 CAP  14 AQU  
16 SAG  17 AQU  16 AQU  18 ARI  17 TAU  18 CAN  18 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  16 SAG  17 AQU  17 PIS  
18 CAP  20 PIS  19 PIS  20 TAU  20 GEM  20 LEO  20 VIR  20 SCO  19 SAG  18 CAP  20 PIS  19 ARI  
21 AQU  22 ARI  21 ARI  22 GEM  22 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  22 SAG  21 CAP  21 AQU  22 ARI  22 TAU  
23 PIS  25 TAU  24 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  23 AQU  23 PIS  25 TAU  24 GEM  
26 ARI  27 GEM  26 GEM  27 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  
28 TAU          29 CAN  29 VIR  28 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  30 PIS  28 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  
31 GEM          31 LEO          31 SCO          31 AQU                  31 GEM          31 VIR  

1967
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 LIB   3 SAG   2 SAG   3 AQU   2 PIS   1 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP  
4 SCO   5 CAP   4 CAP   5 PIS   5 ARI   4 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU  
6 SAG   7 AQU   6 AQU   8 ARI   7 TAU   6 GEM   6 CAN   7 VIR   5 LIB   6 SAG   5 CAP   7 PIS  
9 CAP  10 PIS   9 PIS  10 TAU  10 GEM   9 CAN   8 LEO   9 LIB   7 SCO   9 CAP   7 AQU   9 ARI  

11 AQU  12 ARI  11 ARI  13 GEM  12 CAN  11 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO   9 SAG  11 AQU   9 PIS  12 TAU  
13 PIS  15 TAU  14 TAU  15 CAN  15 LEO  13 VIR  12 LIB  13 SAG  11 CAP  13 PIS  12 ARI  14 GEM  
16 ARI  17 GEM  16 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  15 LIB  15 SCO  15 CAP  14 AQU  16 ARI  14 TAU  17 CAN  
18 TAU  19 CAN  19 CAN  20 VIR  19 LIB  17 SCO  17 SAG  17 AQU  16 PIS  18 TAU  17 GEM  19 LEO  
21 GEM  22 LEO  21 LEO  22 LIB  21 SCO  19 SAG  19 CAP  20 PIS  18 ARI  21 GEM  19 CAN  21 VIR  
23 CAN  24 VIR  23 VIR  24 SCO  23 SAG  21 CAP  21 AQU  22 ARI  21 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  24 LIB  
25 LEO  26 LIB  25 LIB  26 SAG  25 CAP  24 AQU  23 PIS  25 TAU  23 GEM  26 LEO  24 VIR  26 SCO  
27 VIR  28 SCO  27 SCO  28 CAP  27 AQU  26 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  26 CAN  28 VIR  26 LIB  28 SAG  
29 LIB          29 SAG  30 AQU  30 PIS  28 ARI  28 TAU  30 CAN  28 LEO  30 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  
31 SCO          31 CAP                          31 GEM          30 VIR          30 SAG          

4 4 6 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



1968
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 AQU   2 ARI   3 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB   3 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   1 TAU  
3 PIS   4 TAU   5 GEM   4 CAN   4 LEO   5 LIB   4 SCO   5 CAP   3 AQU   5 ARI   3 TAU   3 GEM  
6 ARI   7 GEM   8 CAN   7 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   5 PIS   7 TAU   6 GEM   6 CAN  
8 TAU   9 CAN  10 LEO   9 VIR   8 LIB   9 SAG   8 CAP   9 PIS   7 ARI  10 GEM   8 CAN   8 LEO  

11 GEM  12 LEO  12 VIR  11 LIB  10 SCO  11 CAP  10 AQU  11 ARI  10 TAU  12 CAN  11 LEO  11 VIR  
13 CAN  14 VIR  14 LIB  13 SCO  12 SAG  13 AQU  12 PIS  13 TAU  12 GEM  15 LEO  13 VIR  13 LIB  
15 LEO  16 LIB  17 SCO  15 SAG  14 CAP  15 PIS  15 ARI  16 GEM  15 CAN  17 VIR  16 LIB  15 SCO  
18 VIR  18 SCO  19 SAG  17 CAP  16 AQU  17 ARI  17 TAU  18 CAN  17 LEO  19 LIB  18 SCO  17 SAG  
20 LIB  20 SAG  21 CAP  19 AQU  19 PIS  20 TAU  20 GEM  21 LEO  20 VIR  21 SCO  20 SAG  19 CAP  
22 SCO  22 CAP  23 AQU  21 PIS  21 ARI  22 GEM  22 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  23 SAG  22 CAP  21 AQU  
24 SAG  25 AQU  25 PIS  24 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  25 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  23 PIS  
26 CAP  27 PIS  28 ARI  26 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  28 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  26 ARI  
28 AQU  29 ARI  30 TAU  29 GEM  29 CAN  30 VIR  29 LIB  30 SAG  28 CAP  30 PIS  28 ARI  28 TAU  
31 PIS                          31 LEO          31 SCO          30 AQU                  30 GEM  

1969
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 CAN   1 LEO   2 VIR   1 LIB   1 SCO   1 CAP   1 AQU   1 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   1 VIR  
4 LEO   3 VIR   5 LIB   3 SCO   3 SAG   3 AQU   3 PIS   3 TAU   5 CAN   4 LEO   3 VIR   3 LIB  
7 VIR   6 LIB   7 SCO   5 SAG   5 CAP   5 PIS   5 ARI   6 GEM   7 LEO   7 VIR   6 LIB   5 SCO  
9 LIB   8 SCO   9 SAG   8 CAP   7 AQU   7 ARI   7 TAU   8 CAN  10 VIR   9 LIB   8 SCO   8 SAG  

12 SCO  10 SAG  11 CAP  10 AQU   9 PIS  10 TAU  10 GEM  11 LEO  12 LIB  12 SCO  10 SAG  10 CAP  
14 SAG  12 CAP  13 AQU  12 PIS  11 ARI  12 GEM  12 CAN  13 VIR  14 SCO  14 SAG  12 CAP  12 AQU  
16 CAP  14 AQU  16 PIS  14 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  15 LEO  16 LIB  17 SAG  16 CAP  14 AQU  14 PIS  
18 AQU  16 PIS  18 ARI  16 TAU  16 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  19 CAP  18 AQU  16 PIS  16 ARI  
20 PIS  18 ARI  20 TAU  19 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  20 SAG  21 AQU  20 PIS  19 ARI  18 TAU  
22 ARI  21 TAU  22 GEM  21 CAN  21 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  22 CAP  23 PIS  22 ARI  21 TAU  20 GEM  
24 TAU  23 GEM  25 CAN  24 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  24 AQU  25 ARI  25 TAU  23 GEM  23 CAN  
27 GEM  26 CAN  27 LEO  26 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 GEM  26 CAN  25 LEO  
29 CAN  28 LEO  30 VIR  29 LIB  28 SCO  29 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  29 GEM  29 CAN  28 LEO  28 VIR  

30 SAG          30 PIS  31 TAU                          30 LIB  

1970
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 SCO   2 CAP   2 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO   3 CAP   2 AQU  
4 SAG   4 AQU   4 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU   5 CAN   4 LEO   3 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG   5 AQU   4 PIS  
6 CAP   6 PIS   6 PIS   6 TAU   6 GEM   7 LEO   7 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP   7 PIS   6 ARI  
8 AQU   8 ARI   8 ARI   9 GEM   8 CAN  10 VIR  10 LIB   8 SCO   9 CAP   9 AQU   9 ARI   8 TAU  

10 PIS  11 TAU  10 TAU  11 CAN  11 LEO  12 LIB  12 SCO  11 SAG  11 AQU  11 PIS  11 TAU  11 GEM  
12 ARI  13 GEM  12 GEM  14 LEO  13 VIR  15 SCO  14 SAG  13 CAP  13 PIS  13 ARI  13 GEM  13 CAN  
14 TAU  15 CAN  15 CAN  16 VIR  16 LIB  17 SAG  16 CAP  15 AQU  15 ARI  15 TAU  16 CAN  15 LEO  
17 GEM  18 LEO  17 LEO  19 LIB  18 SCO  19 CAP  18 AQU  17 PIS  17 TAU  17 GEM  18 LEO  18 VIR  
19 CAN  20 VIR  20 VIR  21 SCO  20 SAG  21 AQU  20 PIS  19 ARI  19 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  
22 LEO  23 LIB  22 LIB  23 SAG  23 CAP  23 PIS  22 ARI  21 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  23 LIB  23 SCO  
24 VIR  25 SCO  25 SCO  25 CAP  25 AQU  25 ARI  25 TAU  23 GEM  24 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  25 SAG  
27 LIB  28 SAG  27 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  27 TAU  27 GEM  25 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  28 SAG  27 CAP  
29 SCO          29 CAP  30 PIS  29 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  28 LEO  29 LIB  29 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  
31 SAG          31 AQU          31 TAU                  31 VIR          31 SAG          31 PIS  

1971
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
3 ARI   1 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM  
5 TAU   3 GEM   5 CAN   3 LEO   3 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG   3 CAP   4 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   3 CAN  
7 GEM   5 CAN   7 LEO   6 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   7 CAP   5 AQU   6 ARI   5 TAU   6 CAN   5 LEO  
9 CAN   8 LEO  10 VIR   8 LIB   8 SCO   9 CAP   9 AQU   7 PIS   8 TAU   7 GEM   8 LEO   8 VIR  

12 LEO  10 VIR  12 LIB  11 SCO  11 SAG  11 AQU  11 PIS   9 ARI  10 GEM   9 CAN  10 VIR  10 LIB  
14 VIR  13 LIB  15 SCO  13 SAG  13 CAP  14 PIS  13 ARI  11 TAU  12 CAN  12 LEO  13 LIB  13 SCO  
17 LIB  15 SCO  17 SAG  16 CAP  15 AQU  16 ARI  15 TAU  13 GEM  14 LEO  14 VIR  15 SCO  15 SAG  
19 SCO  18 SAG  19 CAP  18 AQU  17 PIS  18 TAU  17 GEM  16 CAN  17 VIR  16 LIB  18 SAG  17 CAP  
22 SAG  20 CAP  22 AQU  20 PIS  20 ARI  20 GEM  19 CAN  18 LEO  19 LIB  19 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  
24 CAP  22 AQU  24 PIS  22 ARI  22 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  20 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  
26 AQU  24 PIS  26 ARI  24 TAU  24 GEM  24 LEO  24 VIR  23 LIB  24 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  
28 PIS  26 ARI  28 TAU  26 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  
30 ARI  28 TAU  30 GEM  28 CAN  28 LEO  29 LIB  29 SCO  28 SAG  29 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  28 GEM  

30 VIR                  30 CAP          31 ARI          30 CAN  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 4 7



1972
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 LEO   3 LIB   1 LIB   2 SAG   2 CAP   1 AQU   3 ARI   1 TAU   1 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   1 SCO  
4 VIR   5 SCO   4 SCO   5 CAP   5 AQU   3 PIS   5 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO   4 SAG  
6 LIB   8 SAG   6 SAG   7 AQU   7 PIS   5 ARI   7 GEM   5 CAN   6 VIR   5 LIB   7 SAG   7 CAP  
9 SCO  10 CAP   9 CAP   9 PIS   9 ARI   7 TAU   9 CAN   7 LEO   8 LIB   8 SCO   9 CAP   9 AQU  

11 SAG  12 AQU  11 AQU  12 ARI  11 TAU   9 GEM  11 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO  10 SAG  12 AQU  11 PIS  
14 CAP  15 PIS  13 PIS  14 TAU  13 GEM  11 CAN  13 VIR  12 LIB  13 SAG  13 CAP  14 PIS  14 ARI  
16 AQU  17 ARI  15 ARI  16 GEM  15 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  14 SCO  16 CAP  15 AQU  16 ARI  16 TAU  
18 PIS  19 TAU  17 TAU  18 CAN  17 LEO  16 VIR  18 SCO  17 SAG  18 AQU  18 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  
20 ARI  21 GEM  19 GEM  20 LEO  19 VIR  18 LIB  20 SAG  19 CAP  20 PIS  20 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  
23 TAU  23 CAN  21 CAN  22 VIR  22 LIB  21 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  22 ARI  22 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  
25 GEM  25 LEO  24 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  23 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  24 TAU  24 GEM  24 LEO  24 VIR  
27 CAN  28 VIR  26 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  26 CAP  28 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  
29 LEO          28 LIB  30 SAG  29 CAP  28 AQU  30 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  28 LEO  29 LIB  29 SCO  
31 VIR          31 SCO                  30 PIS          30 GEM          30 VIR          31 SAG  

1973
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
3 CAP   2 AQU   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   1 SCO   3 CAP   2 AQU   1 PIS  
5 AQU   4 PIS   3 PIS   4 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO   3 SAG   5 AQU   4 PIS   4 ARI  
8 PIS   6 ARI   5 ARI   6 GEM   5 CAN   6 VIR   5 LIB   7 SAG   5 CAP   8 PIS   6 ARI   6 TAU  

10 ARI   8 TAU   8 TAU   8 CAN   7 LEO   8 LIB   8 SCO   9 CAP   8 AQU  10 ARI   9 TAU   8 GEM  
12 TAU  10 GEM  10 GEM  10 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO  10 SAG  12 AQU  10 PIS  12 TAU  11 GEM  10 CAN  
14 GEM  13 CAN  12 CAN  12 VIR  12 LIB  13 SAG  13 CAP  14 PIS  13 ARI  14 GEM  13 CAN  12 LEO  
16 CAN  15 LEO  14 LEO  15 LIB  14 SCO  16 CAP  15 AQU  16 ARI  15 TAU  16 CAN  15 LEO  14 VIR  
18 LEO  17 VIR  16 VIR  17 SCO  17 SAG  18 AQU  18 PIS  19 TAU  17 GEM  19 LEO  17 VIR  16 LIB  
20 VIR  19 LIB  18 LIB  20 SAG  19 CAP  21 PIS  20 ARI  21 GEM  19 CAN  21 VIR  19 LIB  19 SCO  
23 LIB  21 SCO  21 SCO  22 CAP  22 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  23 CAN  21 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  21 SAG  
25 SCO  24 SAG  23 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  25 LEO  23 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  24 CAP  
28 SAG  26 CAP  26 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  28 SAG  26 CAP  26 AQU  
30 CAP          28 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  29 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  29 PIS  

31 PIS          31 GEM          31 VIR          30 SAG                  31 ARI  

1974
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 TAU   1 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   1 SCO   3 CAP   2 AQU   3 ARI   2 TAU   1 GEM   1 CAN  
5 GEM   3 CAN   4 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO   3 SAG   5 AQU   4 PIS   5 TAU   5 GEM   3 CAN   3 LEO  
7 CAN   5 LEO   7 VIR   5 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP   8 PIS   7 ARI   8 GEM   7 CAN   5 LEO   5 VIR  
9 LEO   7 VIR   9 LIB   7 SCO   9 CAP   8 AQU  10 ARI   9 TAU  10 CAN   9 LEO   8 VIR   7 LIB  

11 VIR   9 LIB  11 SCO   9 SAG  12 AQU  11 PIS  13 TAU  11 GEM  12 LEO  11 VIR  10 LIB   9 SCO  
13 LIB  11 SCO  13 SAG  12 CAP  14 PIS  13 ARI  15 GEM  13 CAN  14 VIR  13 LIB  12 SCO  11 SAG  
15 SCO  14 SAG  16 CAP  14 AQU  17 ARI  15 TAU  17 CAN  15 LEO  16 LIB  15 SCO  14 SAG  14 CAP  
17 SAG  16 CAP  18 AQU  17 PIS  19 TAU  18 GEM  19 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  18 SAG  16 CAP  16 AQU  
20 CAP  19 AQU  21 PIS  19 ARI  21 GEM  20 CAN  21 VIR  19 LIB  20 SAG  20 CAP  19 AQU  19 PIS  
22 AQU  21 PIS  23 ARI  22 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  21 PIS  21 ARI  
25 PIS  24 ARI  25 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  25 PIS  24 ARI  24 TAU  
27 ARI  26 TAU  27 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  28 SAG  26 CAP  28 PIS  27 ARI  26 TAU  26 GEM  
30 TAU  28 GEM  30 CAN  28 LEO  30 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  30 ARI  30 TAU  28 GEM  28 CAN  

30 VIR          30 SAG          31 PIS                          30 LEO  

1975
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SCO   2 CAP   2 AQU   3 ARI   3 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   2 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG  
3 LIB   4 SAG   3 SAG   4 AQU   4 PIS   5 TAU   5 GEM   4 CAN   4 VIR   4 LIB   4 SAG   4 CAP  
5 SCO   6 CAP   5 CAP   7 PIS   7 ARI   8 GEM   7 CAN   6 LEO   6 LIB   6 SCO   6 CAP   6 AQU  
8 SAG   9 AQU   8 AQU   9 ARI   9 TAU  10 CAN   9 LEO   8 VIR   8 SCO   8 SAG   9 AQU   8 PIS  

10 CAP  11 PIS  10 PIS  12 TAU  11 GEM  12 LEO  11 VIR  10 LIB  10 SAG  10 CAP  11 PIS  11 ARI  
12 AQU  14 ARI  13 ARI  14 GEM  14 CAN  14 VIR  14 LIB  12 SCO  13 CAP  12 AQU  14 ARI  13 TAU  
15 PIS  16 TAU  15 TAU  16 CAN  16 LEO  16 LIB  16 SCO  14 SAG  15 AQU  15 PIS  16 TAU  16 GEM  
17 ARI  19 GEM  18 GEM  19 LEO  18 VIR  18 SCO  18 SAG  16 CAP  18 PIS  17 ARI  19 GEM  18 CAN  
20 TAU  21 CAN  20 CAN  21 VIR  20 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  19 AQU  20 ARI  20 TAU  21 CAN  20 LEO  
22 GEM  23 LEO  22 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  23 CAP  23 AQU  21 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  23 VIR  
24 CAN  25 VIR  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  25 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  25 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  
26 LEO  27 LIB  26 LIB  27 SAG  27 CAP  28 PIS  28 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  27 LIB  27 SCO  
28 VIR          28 SCO  29 CAP  29 AQU  30 ARI  30 TAU  29 GEM  30 LEO  29 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  
30 LIB          30 SAG          31 PIS                  31 CAN          31 LIB          31 CAP  

4 4 8 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



1976
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 AQU   1 PIS   2 ARI   1 TAU   3 CAN   1 LEO   1 VIR   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   2 TAU  
5 PIS   4 ARI   4 TAU   3 GEM   5 LEO   4 VIR   3 LIB   4 SAG   4 AQU   4 PIS   5 TAU   5 GEM  
7 ARI   6 TAU   7 GEM   6 CAN   7 VIR   6 LIB   5 SCO   6 CAP   7 PIS   6 ARI   8 GEM   7 CAN  

10 TAU   9 GEM   9 CAN   8 LEO  10 LIB   8 SCO   7 SAG   8 AQU   9 ARI   9 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO  
12 GEM  11 CAN  12 LEO  10 VIR  12 SCO  10 SAG   9 CAP  10 PIS  11 TAU  11 GEM  12 LEO  12 VIR  
15 CAN  13 LEO  14 VIR  12 LIB  14 SAG  12 CAP  12 AQU  13 ARI  14 GEM  14 CAN  15 VIR  14 LIB  
17 LEO  15 VIR  16 LIB  14 SCO  16 CAP  14 AQU  14 PIS  15 TAU  17 CAN  16 LEO  17 LIB  16 SCO  
19 VIR  17 LIB  18 SCO  16 SAG  18 AQU  17 PIS  16 ARI  18 GEM  19 LEO  18 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  
21 LIB  19 SCO  20 SAG  18 CAP  20 PIS  19 ARI  19 TAU  20 CAN  21 VIR  21 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  
23 SCO  21 SAG  22 CAP  20 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  21 GEM  22 LEO  23 LIB  23 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  
25 SAG  24 CAP  24 AQU  23 PIS  25 TAU  24 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  25 PIS  
27 CAP  26 AQU  27 PIS  25 ARI  28 GEM  26 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  27 SAG  27 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  
30 AQU  28 PIS  29 ARI  28 TAU  30 CAN  29 LEO  28 VIR  29 SCO  29 CAP  29 AQU  30 ARI  30 TAU  

30 GEM                  30 LIB  31 SAG          31 PIS                  

1977
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 GEM   2 LEO   2 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO   2 CAP   2 AQU   3 ARI   1 TAU   1 GEM   3 LEO   2 VIR  
4 CAN   5 VIR   4 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG   4 AQU   4 PIS   5 TAU   4 GEM   4 CAN   5 VIR   5 LIB  
6 LEO   7 LIB   6 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP   7 PIS   6 ARI   7 GEM   6 CAN   6 LEO   7 LIB   7 SCO  
8 VIR   9 SCO   8 SCO   9 CAP   8 AQU   9 ARI   9 TAU  10 CAN   9 LEO   9 VIR   9 SCO   9 SAG  

10 LIB  11 SAG  10 SAG  11 AQU  10 PIS  11 TAU  11 GEM  12 LEO  11 VIR  11 LIB  11 SAG  11 CAP  
13 SCO  13 CAP  12 CAP  13 PIS  13 ARI  14 GEM  14 CAN  15 VIR  13 LIB  13 SCO  13 CAP  13 AQU  
15 SAG  15 AQU  15 AQU  15 ARI  15 TAU  16 CAN  16 LEO  17 LIB  16 SCO  15 SAG  15 AQU  15 PIS  
17 CAP  17 PIS  17 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  19 LEO  19 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  17 CAP  18 PIS  17 ARI  
19 AQU  20 ARI  19 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  21 VIR  21 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  19 AQU  20 ARI  19 TAU  
21 PIS  22 TAU  22 TAU  23 CAN  23 LEO  24 LIB  23 SCO  24 CAP  22 AQU  21 PIS  22 TAU  22 GEM  
23 ARI  25 GEM  24 GEM  25 LEO  25 VIR  26 SCO  25 SAG  26 AQU  24 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  25 CAN  
26 TAU  27 CAN  27 CAN  28 VIR  27 LIB  28 SAG  27 CAP  28 PIS  26 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  
28 GEM          29 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  30 ARI  29 TAU  28 GEM  30 LEO  30 VIR  
31 CAN          31 VIR          31 SAG          31 PIS                  31 CAN                  

1978
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 LIB   2 SAG   1 SAG   1 AQU   1 PIS   1 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP  
3 SCO   4 CAP   3 CAP   3 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   4 CAN   5 VIR   4 LIB   3 SCO   4 CAP   3 AQU  
5 SAG   6 AQU   5 AQU   6 ARI   5 TAU   6 CAN   6 LEO   7 LIB   6 SCO   5 SAG   6 AQU   5 PIS  
7 CAP   8 PIS   7 PIS   8 TAU   8 GEM   9 LEO   9 VIR  10 SCO   8 SAG   8 CAP   8 PIS   7 ARI  
9 AQU  10 ARI   9 ARI  10 GEM  10 CAN  11 VIR  11 LIB  12 SAG  10 CAP  10 AQU  10 ARI  10 TAU  

11 PIS  12 TAU  12 TAU  13 CAN  13 LEO  14 LIB  13 SCO  14 CAP  12 AQU  12 PIS  12 TAU  12 GEM  
13 ARI  15 GEM  14 GEM  15 LEO  15 VIR  16 SCO  16 SAG  16 AQU  14 PIS  14 ARI  15 GEM  14 CAN  
16 TAU  17 CAN  16 CAN  18 VIR  17 LIB  18 SAG  18 CAP  18 PIS  17 ARI  16 TAU  17 CAN  17 LEO  
18 GEM  20 LEO  19 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  20 ARI  19 TAU  18 GEM  20 LEO  19 VIR  
21 CAN  22 VIR  21 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  22 TAU  21 GEM  21 CAN  22 VIR  22 LIB  
23 LEO  24 LIB  24 LIB  24 SAG  24 CAP  24 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  23 CAN  23 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  
26 VIR  27 SCO  26 SCO  26 CAP  26 AQU  26 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  26 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  
28 LIB          28 SAG  29 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  28 GEM  30 LEO  28 VIR  28 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  
30 SCO          30 CAP          30 ARI          31 CAN                  31 SCO          31 AQU  

1979
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 PIS   2 TAU   2 TAU   3 CAN   2 LEO   1 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM  
4 ARI   5 GEM   4 GEM   5 LEO   5 VIR   4 LIB   4 SCO   4 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN  
6 TAU   7 CAN   6 CAN   8 VIR   7 LIB   6 SCO   6 SAG   6 AQU   5 PIS   6 TAU   5 GEM   7 LEO  
8 GEM   9 LEO   9 LEO  10 LIB  10 SCO   8 SAG   8 CAP   8 PIS   7 ARI   8 GEM   7 CAN   9 VIR  

11 CAN  12 VIR  11 VIR  12 SCO  12 SAG  11 CAP  10 AQU  10 ARI   9 TAU  11 CAN   9 LEO  12 LIB  
13 LEO  15 LIB  14 LIB  15 SAG  14 CAP  13 AQU  12 PIS  13 TAU  11 GEM  13 LEO  12 VIR  14 SCO  
16 VIR  17 SCO  16 SCO  17 CAP  16 AQU  15 PIS  14 ARI  15 GEM  13 CAN  16 VIR  14 LIB  17 SAG  
18 LIB  19 SAG  19 SAG  19 AQU  18 PIS  17 ARI  16 TAU  17 CAN  16 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  19 CAP  
21 SCO  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 PIS  21 ARI  19 TAU  18 GEM  20 LEO  18 VIR  21 SCO  19 SAG  21 AQU  
23 SAG  24 AQU  23 AQU  23 ARI  23 TAU  21 GEM  21 CAN  22 VIR  21 LIB  23 SAG  22 CAP  23 PIS  
25 CAP  25 PIS  25 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  24 CAN  23 LEO  25 LIB  23 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  
27 AQU  27 ARI  27 ARI  28 GEM  27 CAN  26 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  26 SAG  28 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  
29 PIS          29 TAU  30 CAN  30 LEO  29 VIR  28 LIB  30 SAG  28 CAP  30 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  
31 ARI          31 GEM                          31 SCO          30 AQU          30 TAU          

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 4 9



1980
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 CAN   2 VIR   3 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS   2 TAU   3 CAN   2 LEO   1 VIR   1 LIB  
3 LEO   4 LIB   5 SCO   4 SAG   4 CAP   4 PIS   4 ARI   4 GEM   5 LEO   5 VIR   3 LIB   3 SCO  
6 VIR   7 SCO   8 SAG   6 CAP   6 AQU   6 ARI   6 TAU   6 CAN   7 VIR   7 LIB   6 SCO   6 SAG  
8 LIB   9 SAG  10 CAP   9 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   8 GEM   9 LEO  10 LIB  10 SCO   8 SAG   8 CAP  

11 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  11 PIS  10 ARI  11 GEM  10 CAN  11 VIR  12 SCO  12 SAG  11 CAP  10 AQU  
13 SAG  14 AQU  14 PIS  13 ARI  12 TAU  13 CAN  12 LEO  14 LIB  15 SAG  15 CAP  13 AQU  13 PIS  
15 CAP  16 PIS  16 ARI  15 TAU  14 GEM  15 LEO  15 VIR  16 SCO  17 CAP  17 AQU  15 PIS  15 ARI  
17 AQU  18 ARI  18 TAU  17 GEM  16 CAN  17 VIR  17 LIB  19 SAG  20 AQU  19 PIS  18 ARI  17 TAU  
19 PIS  20 TAU  20 GEM  19 CAN  19 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  21 CAP  22 PIS  21 ARI  20 TAU  19 GEM  
21 ARI  22 GEM  23 CAN  21 LEO  21 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  23 AQU  24 ARI  23 TAU  22 GEM  21 CAN  
24 TAU  24 CAN  25 LEO  24 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  25 PIS  26 TAU  25 GEM  24 CAN  23 LEO  
26 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  26 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  27 ARI  28 GEM  27 CAN  26 LEO  25 VIR  
28 CAN  29 VIR  30 LIB  29 SCO  29 SAG  29 AQU  29 PIS  29 TAU  30 CAN  29 LEO  28 VIR  28 LIB  
30 LEO                          31 CAP          31 ARI  31 GEM                          30 SCO  

1981
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 SAG   1 CAP   2 AQU   1 PIS   1 ARI   1 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG   1 CAP   1 AQU  
4 CAP   3 AQU   5 PIS   3 ARI   3 TAU   3 CAN   5 VIR   3 LIB   5 SAG   5 CAP   3 AQU   3 PIS  
7 AQU   5 PIS   7 ARI   5 TAU   5 GEM   5 LEO   7 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   7 AQU   6 PIS   5 ARI  
9 PIS   7 ARI   9 TAU   7 GEM   7 CAN   7 VIR  10 SCO   8 SAG  10 AQU   9 PIS   8 ARI   7 TAU  

11 ARI   9 TAU  11 GEM   9 CAN   9 LEO  10 LIB  12 SAG  11 CAP  12 PIS  11 ARI  10 TAU   9 GEM  
13 TAU  12 GEM  13 CAN  11 LEO  11 VIR  12 SCO  15 CAP  13 AQU  14 ARI  13 TAU  12 GEM  11 CAN  
15 GEM  14 CAN  15 LEO  14 VIR  13 LIB  15 SAG  17 AQU  16 PIS  16 TAU  15 GEM  14 CAN  13 LEO  
17 CAN  16 LEO  18 VIR  16 LIB  16 SCO  17 CAP  19 PIS  18 ARI  18 GEM  18 CAN  16 LEO  16 VIR  
20 LEO  18 VIR  20 LIB  19 SCO  18 SAG  20 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  20 CAN  20 LEO  18 VIR  18 LIB  
22 VIR  21 LIB  22 SCO  21 SAG  21 CAP  22 PIS  24 TAU  22 GEM  22 LEO  22 VIR  21 LIB  20 SCO  
24 LIB  23 SCO  25 SAG  24 CAP  23 AQU  24 ARI  26 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  23 SCO  23 SAG  
27 SCO  26 SAG  27 CAP  26 AQU  26 PIS  26 TAU  28 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  27 SCO  26 SAG  25 CAP  
29 SAG  28 CAP  30 AQU  28 PIS  28 ARI  28 GEM  30 LEO  28 VIR  29 SCO  29 SAG  28 CAP  28 AQU  

30 TAU  30 CAN          31 LIB                          30 PIS  

1982
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 ARI   2 GEM   1 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN  
4 TAU   4 CAN   3 CAN   4 VIR   4 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU   4 CAN   4 LEO  
6 GEM   6 LEO   6 LEO   6 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   7 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   6 GEM   6 LEO   6 VIR  
8 CAN   8 VIR   8 VIR   9 SCO   8 SAG  10 AQU   9 PIS   8 ARI   9 GEM   8 CAN   9 VIR   8 LIB  

10 LEO  11 LIB  10 LIB  11 SAG  11 CAP  12 PIS  12 ARI  10 TAU  11 CAN  10 LEO  11 LIB  10 SCO  
12 VIR  13 SCO  12 SCO  14 CAP  13 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  13 GEM  13 LEO  12 VIR  13 SCO  13 SAG  
14 LIB  15 SAG  15 SAG  16 AQU  16 PIS  17 TAU  16 GEM  15 CAN  15 VIR  15 LIB  15 SAG  15 CAP  
17 SCO  18 CAP  17 CAP  19 PIS  18 ARI  19 GEM  18 CAN  17 LEO  17 LIB  17 SCO  18 CAP  18 AQU  
19 SAG  20 AQU  20 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  21 CAN  20 LEO  19 VIR  19 SCO  19 SAG  21 AQU  20 PIS  
22 CAP  23 PIS  22 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  22 VIR  21 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  23 PIS  23 ARI  
24 AQU  25 ARI  24 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  23 SCO  24 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  25 TAU  
26 PIS  27 TAU  27 TAU  27 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  27 SCO  25 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  28 TAU  27 GEM  
29 ARI          29 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  29 SCO  29 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  
31 TAU          31 CAN          31 LIB                  31 AQU          31 TAU          31 LEO  

1983
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI   1 TAU   1 CAN   1 LEO   1 LIB   1 SCO  
4 LIB   3 SCO   5 SAG   3 CAP   3 AQU   5 ARI   4 TAU   3 GEM   3 LEO   3 VIR   3 SCO   3 SAG  
7 SCO   5 SAG   7 CAP   6 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   7 GEM   5 CAN   5 VIR   5 LIB   6 SAG   5 CAP  
9 SAG   8 CAP  10 AQU   8 PIS   8 ARI   9 GEM   9 CAN   7 LEO   7 LIB   7 SCO   8 CAP   8 AQU  

12 CAP  10 AQU  12 PIS  11 ARI  11 TAU  11 CAN  11 LEO   9 VIR  10 SCO   9 SAG  10 AQU  10 PIS  
14 AQU  13 PIS  15 ARI  13 TAU  13 GEM  13 LEO  13 VIR  11 LIB  12 SAG  11 CAP  13 PIS  13 ARI  
17 PIS  15 ARI  17 TAU  15 GEM  15 CAN  15 VIR  15 LIB  13 SCO  14 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  15 TAU  
19 ARI  18 TAU  19 GEM  18 CAN  17 LEO  17 LIB  17 SCO  15 SAG  17 AQU  16 PIS  18 TAU  17 GEM  
21 TAU  20 GEM  21 CAN  20 LEO  19 VIR  20 SCO  19 SAG  18 CAP  19 PIS  19 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  
24 GEM  22 CAN  23 LEO  22 VIR  21 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  20 AQU  22 ARI  21 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  
26 CAN  24 LEO  26 VIR  24 LIB  23 SCO  24 CAP  24 AQU  23 PIS  24 TAU  24 GEM  24 LEO  24 VIR  
28 LEO  26 VIR  28 LIB  26 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  25 ARI  26 GEM  26 CAN  26 VIR  26 LIB  
30 VIR  28 LIB  30 SCO  28 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  28 LEO  29 LIB  28 SCO  

31 AQU                  30 GEM          30 VIR          30 SAG  

4 5 0 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



1984
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 CAP   3 PIS   1 PIS   2 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   3 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI  
4 AQU   5 ARI   4 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB   5 SAG   3 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU  
6 PIS   8 TAU   6 TAU   7 CAN   6 LEO   5 VIR   6 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU   5 PIS   7 TAU   6 GEM  
9 ARI  10 GEM   8 GEM   9 LEO   9 VIR   7 LIB   9 SAG   9 AQU   8 PIS   8 ARI   9 GEM   9 CAN  

11 TAU  12 CAN  11 CAN  11 VIR  11 LIB   9 SCO  11 CAP  12 PIS  11 ARI  10 TAU  12 CAN  11 LEO  
14 GEM  15 LEO  13 LEO  13 LIB  13 SCO  11 SAG  13 AQU  14 ARI  13 TAU  13 GEM  14 LEO  13 VIR  
16 CAN  16 VIR  15 VIR  15 SCO  15 SAG  13 CAP  16 PIS  17 TAU  16 GEM  15 CAN  16 VIR  15 LIB  
18 LEO  18 LIB  17 LIB  17 SAG  17 CAP  16 AQU  18 ARI  19 GEM  18 CAN  18 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  
20 VIR  20 SCO  19 SCO  20 CAP  19 AQU  18 PIS  21 TAU  22 CAN  20 LEO  20 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  
22 LIB  23 SAG  21 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  21 ARI  23 GEM  24 LEO  22 VIR  22 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  
24 SCO  25 CAP  23 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  23 TAU  25 CAN  26 VIR  24 LIB  24 SCO  24 CAP  24 AQU  
26 SAG  28 AQU  26 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  28 LIB  26 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  
29 CAP          28 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  28 CAN  29 VIR  30 SCO  28 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  
31 AQU          31 ARI                  30 LEO  31 LIB                  30 AQU          31 TAU  

1985
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
3 GEM   2 CAN   1 CAN   2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   3 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO  
5 CAN   4 LEO   3 LEO   4 LIB   3 SCO   4 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   3 TAU   5 CAN   4 LEO   4 VIR  
7 LEO   6 VIR   5 VIR   6 SCO   5 SAG   6 AQU   5 PIS   7 TAU   6 GEM   8 LEO   6 VIR   6 LIB  
9 VIR   8 LIB   7 LIB   8 SAG   7 CAP   8 PIS   8 ARI   9 GEM   8 CAN  10 VIR   9 LIB   8 SCO  

12 LIB  10 SCO   9 SCO  10 CAP   9 AQU  11 ARI  10 TAU  12 CAN  10 LEO  12 LIB  11 SCO  10 SAG  
14 SCO  12 SAG  11 SAG  12 AQU  12 PIS  13 TAU  13 GEM  14 LEO  13 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  12 CAP  
16 SAG  14 CAP  14 CAP  14 PIS  14 ARI  16 GEM  15 CAN  16 VIR  15 LIB  16 SAG  15 CAP  14 AQU  
18 CAP  17 AQU  16 AQU  17 ARI  17 TAU  18 CAN  18 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  18 CAP  17 AQU  16 PIS  
20 AQU  19 PIS  18 PIS  20 TAU  19 GEM  20 LEO  20 VIR  20 SCO  19 SAG  20 AQU  19 PIS  19 ARI  
23 PIS  21 ARI  21 ARI  22 GEM  22 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  22 SAG  21 CAP  23 PIS  21 ARI  21 TAU  
25 ARI  24 TAU  23 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  23 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  24 GEM  
28 TAU  27 GEM  26 GEM  27 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  25 PIS  28 TAU  26 GEM  26 CAN  
30 GEM          28 CAN  29 VIR  29 LIB  29 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  29 LEO  

31 LEO          31 SCO          31 AQU          30 TAU                  31 VIR  

1986
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 LIB   1 SCO   2 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS   3 TAU   3 GEM   2 CAN   3 VIR   2 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP  
4 SCO   3 SAG   4 CAP   5 PIS   4 ARI   5 GEM   5 CAN   4 LEO   5 LIB   4 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU  
6 SAG   5 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   7 TAU   8 CAN   8 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   7 SAG   5 CAP   6 PIS  
8 CAP   7 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   9 GEM  11 LEO  10 VIR   9 LIB   9 SAG   9 CAP   7 AQU   9 ARI  

11 AQU   9 PIS  11 ARI  12 GEM  12 CAN  13 VIR  12 LIB  11 SCO  11 CAP  11 AQU   9 PIS  11 TAU  
13 PIS  11 ARI  13 TAU  14 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  15 SCO  13 SAG  14 AQU  13 PIS  11 ARI  14 GEM  
15 ARI  14 TAU  16 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  17 SCO  17 SAG  15 CAP  16 PIS  15 ARI  14 TAU  16 CAN  
17 TAU  16 GEM  18 CAN  19 VIR  19 LIB  19 SAG  19 CAP  17 AQU  18 ARI  18 TAU  16 GEM  19 LEO  
20 GEM  19 CAN  21 LEO  21 LIB  21 SCO  21 CAP  21 AQU  19 PIS  20 TAU  20 GEM  19 CAN  21 VIR  
22 CAN  21 LEO  23 VIR  24 SCO  23 SAG  23 AQU  23 PIS  22 ARI  23 GEM  23 CAN  21 LEO  24 LIB  
25 LEO  23 VIR  25 LIB  26 SAG  25 CAP  26 PIS  25 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  25 LEO  24 VIR  26 SCO  
27 VIR  26 LIB  27 SCO  28 CAP  27 AQU  28 ARI  28 TAU  26 GEM  28 LEO  27 VIR  26 LIB  28 SAG  
29 LIB  28 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  29 PIS  30 TAU  30 GEM  29 CAN  30 VIR  30 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  

31 CAP          31 ARI                  31 LEO                  30 SAG          

1987
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 AQU   1 ARI   1 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   3 VIR   3 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU  
3 PIS   4 TAU   3 TAU   4 CAN   4 LEO   5 LIB   5 SCO   4 SAG   4 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   4 GEM  
5 ARI   6 GEM   5 GEM   7 LEO   7 VIR   8 SCO   7 SAG   6 CAP   6 PIS   6 ARI   6 GEM   6 CAN  
7 TAU   9 CAN   8 CAN   9 VIR   9 LIB  10 SAG   9 CAP   8 AQU   8 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN   8 LEO  

10 GEM  11 LEO  10 LEO  12 LIB  11 SCO  12 CAP  11 AQU  10 PIS  10 TAU  10 GEM  11 LEO  11 VIR  
12 CAN  14 VIR  13 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  14 AQU  13 PIS  12 ARI  13 GEM  12 CAN  14 VIR  14 LIB  
15 LEO  16 LIB  15 LIB  16 SAG  15 CAP  16 PIS  15 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  15 LEO  16 LIB  16 SCO  
17 VIR  18 SCO  18 SCO  18 CAP  17 AQU  18 ARI  18 TAU  16 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  18 SAG  
20 LIB  21 SAG  20 SAG  20 AQU  20 PIS  20 TAU  20 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  
22 SCO  23 CAP  22 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  21 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  
24 SAG  25 AQU  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  25 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  
26 CAP  27 PIS  26 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  28 LEO  27 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  
28 AQU          28 ARI  29 GEM  29 CAN  30 VIR  30 LIB  29 SCO  29 CAP  29 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  
30 PIS          30 TAU          31 LEO                  31 SAG          31 PIS          31 GEM  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 5 1



1988
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 CAN   1 LEO   2 VIR   1 LIB   3 SAG   1 CAP   1 AQU   1 ARI   2 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB  
5 LEO   4 VIR   4 LIB   3 SCO   5 CAP   3 AQU   3 PIS   3 TAU   4 CAN   4 LEO   5 LIB   5 SCO  
7 VIR   6 LIB   7 SCO   5 SAG   7 AQU   5 PIS   5 ARI   5 GEM   6 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   7 SAG  

10 LIB   9 SCO   9 SAG   8 CAP   9 PIS   8 ARI   7 TAU   8 CAN   9 VIR   9 LIB  10 SAG   9 CAP  
12 SCO  11 SAG  11 CAP  10 AQU  11 ARI  10 TAU   9 GEM  10 LEO  11 LIB  11 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  
15 SAG  13 CAP  14 AQU  12 PIS  13 TAU  12 GEM  11 CAN  13 VIR  14 SCO  14 SAG  14 AQU  14 PIS  
17 CAP  15 AQU  16 PIS  14 ARI  16 GEM  14 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  16 SAG  16 CAP  17 PIS  16 ARI  
19 AQU  17 PIS  18 ARI  16 TAU  18 CAN  17 LEO  16 VIR  18 SCO  19 CAP  18 AQU  19 ARI  18 TAU  
21 PIS  19 ARI  20 TAU  18 GEM  20 LEO  19 VIR  19 LIB  20 SAG  21 AQU  20 PIS  21 TAU  20 GEM  
23 ARI  21 TAU  22 GEM  20 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  21 SCO  22 CAP  23 PIS  22 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  
25 TAU  23 GEM  24 CAN  23 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  24 SAG  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  25 LEO  
27 GEM  26 CAN  27 LEO  25 VIR  28 SCO  26 SAG  26 CAP  26 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  
30 CAN  28 LEO  29 VIR  28 LIB  30 SAG  29 CAP  28 AQU  28 ARI  29 GEM  29 CAN  30 VIR  30 LIB  

30 SCO                  30 PIS  30 TAU          31 LEO                  

1989
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 SCO   2 CAP   2 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   3 VIR   1 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   2 AQU  
4 SAG   4 AQU   4 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU   4 CAN   4 LEO   5 LIB   4 SCO   4 SAG   5 AQU   4 PIS  
6 CAP   6 PIS   6 PIS   6 TAU   6 GEM   7 LEO   6 VIR   8 SCO   6 SAG   6 CAP   7 PIS   7 ARI  
8 AQU   8 ARI   8 ARI   8 GEM   8 CAN   9 VIR   9 LIB  10 SAG   9 CAP   9 AQU   9 ARI   9 TAU  

10 PIS  11 TAU  10 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO  11 LIB  11 SCO  12 CAP  11 AQU  11 PIS  11 TAU  11 GEM  
12 ARI  13 GEM  12 GEM  13 LEO  13 VIR  14 SCO  14 SAG  15 AQU  13 PIS  13 ARI  13 GEM  13 CAN  
14 TAU  15 CAN  14 CAN  15 VIR  15 LIB  16 SAG  16 CAP  17 PIS  15 ARI  15 TAU  15 CAN  15 LEO  
16 GEM  17 LEO  17 LEO  18 LIB  18 SCO  19 CAP  18 AQU  19 ARI  17 TAU  17 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  
19 CAN  20 VIR  19 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  21 AQU  20 PIS  21 TAU  19 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  19 LIB  
21 LEO  22 LIB  22 LIB  23 SAG  22 CAP  23 PIS  23 ARI  23 GEM  21 CAN  21 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  
23 VIR  25 SCO  24 SCO  25 CAP  25 AQU  25 ARI  25 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  23 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  
26 LIB  27 SAG  27 SAG  28 AQU  27 PIS  27 TAU  27 GEM  28 LEO  26 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  27 CAP  
29 SCO          29 CAP  30 PIS  29 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  30 VIR  29 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  
31 SAG          31 AQU          31 TAU          31 LEO                  31 SAG                  

1990
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 PIS   1 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN   3 VIR   1 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM  
3 ARI   3 GEM   5 CAN   3 LEO   5 LIB   4 SCO   4 SAG   5 AQU   3 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   3 CAN  
5 TAU   5 CAN   7 LEO   5 VIR   8 SCO   6 SAG   6 CAP   7 PIS   6 ARI   5 TAU   6 CAN   5 LEO  
7 GEM   8 LEO   9 VIR   8 LIB  10 SAG   9 CAP   9 AQU   9 ARI   8 TAU   7 GEM   8 LEO   7 VIR  
9 CAN  10 VIR  12 LIB  10 SCO  13 CAP  11 AQU  11 PIS  11 TAU  10 GEM   9 CAN  10 VIR   9 LIB  

11 LEO  12 LIB  14 SCO  13 SAG  15 AQU  14 PIS  13 ARI  14 GEM  12 CAN  11 LEO  12 LIB  12 SCO  
13 VIR  15 SCO  16 SAG  15 CAP  17 PIS  16 ARI  15 TAU  16 CAN  14 LEO  14 VIR  15 SCO  14 SAG  
16 LIB  17 SAG  19 CAP  18 AQU  20 ARI  18 TAU  17 GEM  18 LEO  16 VIR  16 LIB  17 SAG  17 CAP  
18 SCO  20 CAP  21 AQU  20 PIS  22 TAU  20 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  19 LIB  18 SCO  20 CAP  19 AQU  
21 SAG  22 AQU  24 PIS  22 ARI  24 GEM  22 CAN  21 LEO  22 LIB  21 SCO  21 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  
23 CAP  24 PIS  26 ARI  24 TAU  26 CAN  24 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  23 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  
26 AQU  26 ARI  28 TAU  26 GEM  28 LEO  26 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  
28 PIS  28 TAU  30 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  29 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  28 GEM  
30 ARI                  30 LEO                  31 SAG                  30 ARI          30 CAN  

1991
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 LEO   2 LIB   2 LIB   3 SAG   2 CAP   1 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   3 CAN   2 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO  
3 VIR   4 SCO   4 SCO   5 CAP   5 AQU   4 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   5 LEO   4 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG  
6 LIB   7 SAG   6 SAG   8 AQU   7 PIS   6 ARI   6 TAU   6 CAN   7 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   7 CAP  
8 SCO   9 CAP   9 CAP  10 PIS  10 ARI   8 TAU   8 GEM   8 LEO   9 LIB   8 SCO  10 CAP   9 AQU  

11 SAG  12 AQU  11 AQU  12 ARI  12 TAU  10 GEM  10 CAN  10 VIR  11 SCO  11 SAG  12 AQU  12 PIS  
13 CAP  14 PIS  14 PIS  15 TAU  14 GEM  12 CAN  12 LEO  12 LIB  13 SAG  13 CAP  15 PIS  14 ARI  
16 AQU  17 ARI  16 ARI  17 GEM  16 CAN  14 LEO  14 VIR  15 SCO  16 CAP  16 AQU  17 ARI  17 TAU  
18 PIS  19 TAU  18 TAU  19 CAN  18 LEO  16 VIR  16 LIB  17 SAG  18 AQU  18 PIS  19 TAU  19 GEM  
20 ARI  21 GEM  20 GEM  21 LEO  20 VIR  19 LIB  18 SCO  20 CAP  21 PIS  21 ARI  21 GEM  21 CAN  
23 TAU  23 CAN  22 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  21 SCO  21 SAG  22 AQU  23 ARI  23 TAU  23 CAN  23 LEO  
25 GEM  25 LEO  25 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  23 SAG  23 CAP  25 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  25 LEO  25 VIR  
27 CAN  27 VIR  27 VIR  28 SCO  27 SAG  26 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  28 GEM  27 CAN  28 VIR  27 LIB  
29 LEO          29 LIB  30 SAG  30 CAP  29 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  30 CAN  29 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  
31 VIR          31 SCO                          31 ARI  31 GEM          31 VIR                  

4 5 2 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



1992
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 SAG   2 AQU   3 PIS   1 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SAG   2 CAP   1 AQU   1 PIS  
3 CAP   4 PIS   5 ARI   4 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO   5 CAP   4 AQU   3 PIS   3 ARI  
6 AQU   7 ARI   8 TAU   6 GEM   5 CAN   6 VIR   5 LIB   6 SAG   7 AQU   7 PIS   6 ARI   6 TAU  
8 PIS   9 TAU  10 GEM   8 CAN   8 LEO   8 LIB   7 SCO   8 CAP  10 PIS  10 ARI   8 TAU   8 GEM  

11 ARI  12 GEM  12 CAN  10 LEO  10 VIR  10 SCO  10 SAG  11 AQU  12 ARI  12 TAU  11 GEM  10 CAN  
13 TAU  14 CAN  14 LEO  12 VIR  12 LIB  13 SAG  12 CAP  13 PIS  15 TAU  14 GEM  13 CAN  12 LEO  
15 GEM  16 LEO  16 VIR  15 LIB  14 SCO  15 CAP  15 AQU  16 ARI  17 GEM  17 CAN  15 LEO  14 VIR  
17 CAN  18 VIR  18 LIB  17 SCO  16 SAG  17 AQU  17 PIS  18 TAU  19 CAN  19 LEO  17 VIR  16 LIB  
19 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  19 SAG  19 CAP  20 PIS  20 ARI  21 GEM  21 LEO  21 VIR  19 LIB  19 SCO  
21 VIR  22 SCO  23 SAG  21 CAP  21 AQU  22 ARI  22 TAU  23 CAN  24 VIR  23 LIB  21 SCO  21 SAG  
23 LIB  24 SAG  25 CAP  24 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  24 SAG  23 CAP  
25 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  26 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  27 VIR  28 SCO  27 SAG  26 CAP  26 AQU  
28 SAG  29 AQU  30 PIS  29 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  29 LIB  30 SAG  29 CAP  28 AQU  28 PIS  
30 CAP                          31 GEM          31 VIR  31 SCO                          31 ARI  

1993
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 TAU   1 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   2 TAU   1 GEM   3 LEO  
4 GEM   3 CAN   5 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO   3 SAG   5 AQU   3 PIS   5 TAU   4 GEM   3 CAN   5 VIR  
7 CAN   5 LEO   7 VIR   5 LIB   6 SAG   5 CAP   7 PIS   6 ARI   7 GEM   7 CAN   5 LEO   7 LIB  
9 LEO   7 VIR   8 LIB   7 SCO   9 CAP   7 AQU  10 ARI   8 TAU  10 CAN   9 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO  

11 VIR   9 LIB  10 SCO   9 SAG  11 AQU  10 PIS  12 TAU  11 GEM  12 LEO  11 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG  
13 LIB  11 SCO  13 SAG  11 CAP  13 PIS  12 ARI  15 GEM  13 CAN  14 VIR  13 LIB  12 SCO  13 CAP  
15 SCO  13 SAG  15 CAP  14 AQU  16 ARI  15 TAU  17 CAN  15 LEO  16 LIB  15 SCO  14 SAG  15 AQU  
17 SAG  16 CAP  17 AQU  16 PIS  18 TAU  17 GEM  19 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  17 SAG  16 CAP  18 PIS  
19 CAP  18 AQU  20 PIS  19 ARI  21 GEM  19 CAN  21 VIR  19 LIB  20 SAG  19 CAP  18 AQU  20 ARI  
22 AQU  21 PIS  22 ARI  21 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  23 LIB  21 SCO  22 CAP  22 AQU  20 PIS  23 TAU  
24 PIS  23 ARI  25 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  24 AQU  24 PIS  23 ARI  25 GEM  
27 ARI  26 TAU  27 GEM  26 CAN  28 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  26 TAU  28 CAN  
29 TAU  28 GEM  30 CAN  28 LEO  30 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  28 GEM  30 LEO  

30 VIR          30 SAG          31 PIS                  30 CAN          

1994
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SCO   1 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   2 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   2 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG  
3 LIB   4 SAG   3 SAG   4 AQU   3 PIS   5 TAU   4 GEM   3 CAN   4 VIR   4 LIB   4 SAG   4 CAP  
5 SCO   6 CAP   5 CAP   6 PIS   6 ARI   7 GEM   7 CAN   6 LEO   6 LIB   6 SCO   6 CAP   6 AQU  
8 SAG   8 AQU   7 AQU   9 ARI   8 TAU  10 CAN   9 LEO   8 VIR   8 SCO   8 SAG   8 AQU   8 PIS  

10 CAP  11 PIS  10 PIS  11 TAU  11 GEM  12 LEO  11 VIR  10 LIB  10 SAG  10 CAP  11 PIS  10 ARI  
12 AQU  13 ARI  12 ARI  14 GEM  13 CAN  14 VIR  14 LIB  12 SCO  13 CAP  12 AQU  13 ARI  13 TAU  
14 PIS  16 TAU  15 TAU  16 CAN  16 LEO  16 LIB  16 SCO  14 SAG  15 AQU  14 PIS  15 TAU  15 GEM  
17 ARI  18 GEM  17 GEM  18 LEO  18 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  16 CAP  17 PIS  17 ARI  18 GEM  18 CAN  
19 TAU  20 CAN  20 CAN  21 VIR  20 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  18 AQU  19 ARI  19 TAU  20 CAN  20 LEO  
22 GEM  23 LEO  22 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  21 PIS  22 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  23 VIR  
24 CAN  25 VIR  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  23 ARI  24 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  
26 LEO  27 LIB  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  28 LIB  27 SCO  
28 VIR          28 SCO  29 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  28 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  
31 LIB          30 SAG          31 PIS                  31 CAN          31 LIB          31 CAP  

1995
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 AQU   1 PIS   2 ARI   1 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   2 VIR   3 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   1 PIS   3 TAU  
4 PIS   3 ARI   5 TAU   3 GEM   3 CAN   5 VIR   4 LIB   5 SAG   3 CAP   5 PIS   3 ARI   5 GEM  
6 ARI   5 TAU   7 GEM   6 CAN   6 LEO   7 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   5 AQU   7 ARI   5 TAU   8 CAN  
9 TAU   8 GEM  10 CAN   9 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO   8 SAG   9 AQU   7 PIS   9 TAU   8 GEM  10 LEO  

11 GEM  10 CAN  12 LEO  11 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG  10 CAP  11 PIS   9 ARI  12 GEM  10 CAN  13 VIR  
14 CAN  13 LEO  14 VIR  13 LIB  13 SCO  13 CAP  12 AQU  13 ARI  12 TAU  14 CAN  13 LEO  15 LIB  
16 LEO  15 VIR  17 LIB  15 SCO  15 SAG  15 AQU  14 PIS  15 TAU  14 GEM  17 LEO  15 VIR  17 SCO  
19 VIR  17 LIB  19 SCO  17 SAG  17 CAP  17 PIS  17 ARI  18 GEM  17 CAN  19 VIR  18 LIB  19 SAG  
21 LIB  19 SCO  21 SAG  19 CAP  19 AQU  19 ARI  19 TAU  20 CAN  19 LEO  21 LIB  20 SCO  21 CAP  
23 SCO  22 SAG  23 CAP  21 AQU  21 PIS  22 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  22 SAG  23 AQU  
25 SAG  24 CAP  25 AQU  24 PIS  23 ARI  24 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  26 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  
27 CAP  26 AQU  27 PIS  26 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  28 LIB  26 SCO  28 CAP  26 AQU  28 ARI  
30 AQU  28 PIS  30 ARI  28 TAU  28 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  30 SCO  28 SAG  30 AQU  28 PIS  30 TAU  

31 CAN          31 LIB          30 CAP          30 ARI          

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 5 3



1996
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 GEM   3 LEO   1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO   2 CAP   2 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   3 CAN   2 LEO   2 VIR  
4 CAN   5 VIR   3 VIR   4 SCO   4 SAG   4 AQU   4 PIS   4 TAU   3 GEM   5 LEO   4 VIR   4 LIB  
6 LEO   8 LIB   6 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP   6 PIS   6 ARI   7 GEM   6 CAN   8 VIR   7 LIB   6 SCO  
9 VIR  10 SCO   8 SCO   9 CAP   8 AQU   9 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN   8 LEO  10 LIB   9 SCO   9 SAG  

11 LIB  12 SAG  10 SAG  11 AQU  10 PIS  11 TAU  11 GEM  12 LEO  11 VIR  13 SCO  11 SAG  11 CAP  
14 SCO  14 CAP  13 CAP  13 PIS  12 ARI  13 GEM  13 CAN  14 VIR  13 LIB  15 SAG  13 CAP  13 AQU  
16 SAG  16 AQU  15 AQU  15 ARI  15 TAU  16 CAN  16 LEO  17 LIB  15 SCO  17 CAP  16 AQU  15 PIS  
18 CAP  18 PIS  17 PIS  17 TAU  17 GEM  18 LEO  18 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  19 AQU  18 PIS  17 ARI  
20 AQU  20 ARI  19 ARI  20 GEM  19 CAN  21 VIR  21 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  21 PIS  20 ARI  19 TAU  
22 PIS  23 TAU  21 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  23 LIB  23 SCO  24 CAP  22 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  22 GEM  
24 ARI  25 GEM  23 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  26 SCO  25 SAG  26 AQU  24 PIS  26 TAU  24 GEM  24 CAN  
26 TAU  27 CAN  26 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  28 SAG  27 CAP  28 PIS  26 ARI  28 GEM  27 CAN  26 LEO  
29 GEM          28 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  30 ARI  28 TAU  30 CAN  29 LEO  29 VIR  
31 CAN          31 VIR          31 SAG          31 PIS          30 GEM                  31 LIB  

1997
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
3 SCO   1 SAG   1 SAG   1 AQU   1 PIS   1 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   3 LIB   3 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP  
5 SAG   4 CAP   3 CAP   4 PIS   3 ARI   3 GEM   3 CAN   4 VIR   6 SCO   5 SAG   4 CAP   3 AQU  
7 CAP   6 AQU   5 AQU   6 ARI   5 TAU   6 CAN   5 LEO   7 LIB   8 SAG   8 CAP   6 AQU   5 PIS  
9 AQU   8 PIS   7 PIS   8 TAU   7 GEM   8 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO  10 CAP  10 AQU   8 PIS   8 ARI  

11 PIS  10 ARI   9 ARI  10 GEM   9 CAN  11 VIR  10 LIB  12 SAG  12 AQU  12 PIS  10 ARI  10 TAU  
13 ARI  12 TAU  11 TAU  12 CAN  12 LEO  13 LIB  13 SCO  14 CAP  14 PIS  14 ARI  12 TAU  12 GEM  
15 TAU  14 GEM  13 GEM  14 LEO  14 VIR  16 SCO  15 SAG  16 AQU  16 ARI  16 TAU  14 GEM  14 CAN  
18 GEM  16 CAN  16 CAN  17 VIR  17 LIB  18 SAG  18 CAP  18 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  17 CAN  16 LEO  
20 CAN  19 LEO  18 LEO  19 LIB  19 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  20 ARI  21 GEM  20 CAN  19 LEO  19 VIR  
23 LEO  21 VIR  21 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  22 TAU  23 CAN  23 LEO  21 VIR  21 LIB  
25 VIR  24 LIB  23 LIB  24 SAG  24 CAP  24 PIS  24 ARI  24 GEM  25 LEO  25 VIR  24 LIB  24 SCO  
28 LIB  26 SCO  26 SCO  27 CAP  26 AQU  26 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  28 VIR  28 LIB  26 SCO  26 SAG  
30 SCO          28 SAG  29 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  28 GEM  29 LEO  30 LIB  30 SCO  29 SAG  28 CAP  

30 CAP          30 ARI          30 CAN  31 VIR                          31 AQU  

1998
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 PIS   2 TAU   2 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO   3 LIB   3 SCO   2 SAG   3 AQU   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM  
4 ARI   4 GEM   4 GEM   4 LEO   4 VIR   5 SCO   5 SAG   4 CAP   5 PIS   4 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN  
6 TAU   7 CAN   6 CAN   7 VIR   7 LIB   8 SAG   8 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   6 TAU   5 GEM   6 LEO  
8 GEM   9 LEO   8 LEO   9 LIB   9 SCO  10 CAP  10 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   8 GEM   7 CAN   9 VIR  

10 CAN  11 VIR  11 VIR  12 SCO  12 SAG  13 AQU  12 PIS  11 ARI  11 GEM  10 CAN   9 LEO  11 LIB  
13 LEO  14 LIB  13 LIB  14 SAG  14 CAP  15 PIS  14 ARI  13 TAU  13 CAN  13 LEO  11 VIR  14 SCO  
15 VIR  16 SCO  16 SCO  17 CAP  16 AQU  17 ARI  16 TAU  15 GEM  15 LEO  15 VIR  14 LIB  16 SAG  
18 LIB  19 SAG  18 SAG  19 AQU  19 PIS  19 TAU  18 GEM  17 CAN  18 VIR  17 LIB  16 SCO  18 CAP  
20 SCO  21 CAP  21 CAP  21 PIS  21 ARI  21 GEM  21 CAN  19 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  19 SAG  21 AQU  
23 SAG  23 AQU  23 AQU  23 ARI  23 TAU  23 CAN  23 LEO  21 VIR  23 SCO  23 SAG  21 CAP  23 PIS  
25 CAP  25 PIS  25 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  25 LEO  25 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  
27 AQU  27 ARI  27 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  28 VIR  28 LIB  26 SCO  28 CAP  27 AQU  26 PIS  28 TAU  
29 PIS          29 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  30 LIB  30 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  30 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  
31 ARI          31 GEM          31 VIR                  31 CAP                  30 TAU          

1999
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 CAN   1 VIR   1 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG   3 AQU   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   1 CAN   1 VIR   1 LIB  
3 LEO   4 LIB   3 LIB   4 SAG   4 CAP   5 PIS   5 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB   3 SCO  
5 VIR   6 SCO   6 SCO   7 CAP   7 AQU   8 ARI   7 TAU   5 GEM   6 LEO   5 VIR   6 SCO   6 SAG  
7 LIB   9 SAG   8 SAG   9 AQU   9 PIS  10 TAU   9 GEM   7 CAN   8 VIR   8 LIB   9 SAG   8 CAP  

10 SCO  11 CAP  11 CAP  12 PIS  11 ARI  12 GEM  11 CAN   9 LEO  10 LIB  10 SCO  11 CAP  11 AQU  
12 SAG  14 AQU  13 AQU  14 ARI  13 TAU  14 CAN  13 LEO  12 VIR  13 SCO  12 SAG  14 AQU  13 PIS  
15 CAP  16 PIS  15 PIS  16 TAU  15 GEM  16 LEO  15 VIR  14 LIB  15 SAG  15 CAP  16 PIS  16 ARI  
17 AQU  18 ARI  17 ARI  18 GEM  17 CAN  18 VIR  17 LIB  16 SCO  18 CAP  17 AQU  18 ARI  18 TAU  
19 PIS  20 TAU  19 TAU  20 CAN  19 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  19 SAG  20 AQU  20 PIS  21 TAU  20 GEM  
22 ARI  22 GEM  21 GEM  22 LEO  21 VIR  23 SCO  22 SAG  21 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  
24 TAU  24 CAN  23 CAN  24 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  
26 GEM  26 LEO  26 LEO  27 LIB  26 SCO  28 CAP  27 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  26 VIR  
28 CAN          28 VIR  29 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  30 PIS  28 ARI  29 GEM  28 CAN  29 VIR  28 LIB  
30 LEO          30 LIB          31 CAP                  30 TAU          30 LEO          31 SCO  

4 5 4 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



2000
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 SAG   1 CAP   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SAG   3 AQU   2 PIS  
5 CAP   4 AQU   4 PIS   3 ARI   5 GEM   3 CAN   4 VIR   3 LIB   4 SAG   4 CAP   5 PIS   5 ARI  
7 AQU   6 PIS   7 ARI   5 TAU   7 CAN   5 LEO   7 LIB   5 SCO   6 CAP   6 AQU   8 ARI   7 TAU  

10 PIS   8 ARI   9 TAU   7 GEM   9 LEO   7 VIR   9 SCO   8 SAG   9 AQU   9 PIS  10 TAU   9 GEM  
12 ARI  11 TAU  11 GEM   9 CAN  11 VIR   9 LIB  11 SAG  10 CAP  11 PIS  11 ARI  12 GEM  11 CAN  
14 TAU  13 GEM  13 CAN  11 LEO  13 LIB  12 SCO  14 CAP  13 AQU  14 ARI  13 TAU  14 CAN  13 LEO  
16 GEM  15 CAN  15 LEO  14 VIR  15 SCO  14 SAG  16 AQU  15 PIS  16 TAU  16 GEM  16 LEO  15 VIR  
18 CAN  17 LEO  17 VIR  16 LIB  18 SAG  17 CAP  19 PIS  18 ARI  18 GEM  18 CAN  18 VIR  18 LIB  
20 LEO  19 VIR  19 LIB  18 SCO  20 CAP  19 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  20 CAN  20 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  
23 VIR  21 LIB  22 SCO  20 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  24 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  22 SAG  
25 LIB  23 SCO  24 SAG  23 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  26 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  
27 SCO  26 SAG  27 CAP  26 AQU  28 ARI  26 TAU  28 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  
29 SAG  28 CAP  29 AQU  28 PIS  30 TAU  28 GEM  30 LEO  28 VIR  29 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  30 PIS  

30 ARI          30 CAN          30 LIB          31 CAP                  

2001
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 ARI   2 GEM   1 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SAG   3 AQU   1 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN  
4 TAU   4 CAN   4 CAN   4 VIR   3 LIB   4 SAG   4 CAP   5 PIS   4 ARI   4 TAU   4 CAN   4 LEO  
6 GEM   6 LEO   6 LEO   6 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU   8 ARI   6 TAU   6 GEM   7 LEO   6 VIR  
8 CAN   8 VIR   8 VIR   8 SCO   8 SAG   9 AQU   9 PIS  10 TAU   9 GEM   8 CAN   9 VIR   8 LIB  

10 LEO  10 LIB  10 LIB  10 SAG  10 CAP  11 PIS  11 ARI  12 GEM  11 CAN  10 LEO  11 LIB  10 SCO  
12 VIR  12 SCO  12 SCO  13 CAP  13 AQU  14 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  13 LEO  12 VIR  13 SCO  12 SAG  
14 LIB  15 SAG  14 SAG  15 AQU  15 PIS  16 TAU  16 GEM  17 LEO  15 VIR  15 LIB  15 SAG  15 CAP  
16 SCO  17 CAP  16 CAP  18 PIS  18 ARI  19 GEM  18 CAN  19 VIR  17 LIB  17 SCO  17 CAP  17 AQU  
18 SAG  20 AQU  19 AQU  20 ARI  20 TAU  21 CAN  20 LEO  21 LIB  19 SCO  19 SAG  20 AQU  20 PIS  
21 CAP  22 PIS  22 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  21 SAG  21 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  
23 AQU  25 ARI  24 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  24 CAP  23 AQU  25 ARI  25 TAU  
26 PIS  27 TAU  26 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  27 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  26 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 GEM  
28 ARI          29 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  29 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  29 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  
31 TAU          31 CAN          31 LIB          31 CAP                  31 TAU          31 LEO  

2002
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   1 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   1 CAN   1 LEO   1 LIB   1 SCO  
4 LIB   3 SCO   4 SAG   3 CAP   5 PIS   4 ARI   4 TAU   5 CAN   3 LEO   3 VIR   3 SCO   3 SAG  
6 SCO   5 SAG   6 CAP   5 AQU   7 ARI   6 TAU   6 GEM   7 LEO   5 VIR   5 LIB   5 SAG   5 CAP  
9 SAG   7 CAP   9 AQU   8 PIS  10 TAU   9 GEM   8 CAN   9 VIR   7 LIB   7 SCO   7 CAP   7 AQU  

11 CAP  10 AQU  11 PIS  10 ARI  12 GEM  11 CAN  11 LEO  11 LIB   9 SCO   9 SAG  10 AQU   9 PIS  
13 AQU  12 PIS  14 ARI  13 TAU  15 CAN  13 LEO  13 VIR  13 SCO  12 SAG  11 CAP  12 PIS  12 ARI  
16 PIS  15 ARI  16 TAU  15 GEM  17 LEO  15 VIR  15 LIB  15 SAG  14 CAP  13 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  
18 ARI  17 TAU  19 GEM  18 CAN  19 VIR  18 LIB  17 SCO  18 CAP  16 AQU  16 PIS  17 TAU  17 GEM  
21 TAU  20 GEM  21 CAN  20 LEO  21 LIB  20 SCO  19 SAG  20 AQU  19 PIS  18 ARI  20 GEM  19 CAN  
23 GEM  22 CAN  24 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  22 SAG  21 CAP  22 PIS  21 ARI  21 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  
26 CAN  24 LEO  26 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  24 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  23 GEM  24 LEO  24 VIR  
28 LEO  26 VIR  28 LIB  26 SCO  28 CAP  26 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  
30 VIR  28 LIB  30 SCO  28 SAG  30 AQU  29 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  28 LEO  29 LIB  28 SCO  

30 CAP                  31 TAU                  30 VIR          30 SAG  

2003
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 CAP   2 PIS   1 PIS   3 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI  
3 AQU   5 ARI   4 ARI   5 GEM   5 CAN   4 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO   4 CAP   4 AQU   5 ARI   4 TAU  
6 PIS   7 TAU   6 TAU   8 CAN   7 LEO   6 VIR   5 LIB   6 SAG   6 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   7 GEM  
8 ARI  10 GEM   9 GEM  10 LEO  10 VIR   8 LIB   7 SCO   8 CAP   9 PIS   8 ARI  10 GEM   9 CAN  

11 TAU  12 CAN  11 CAN  12 VIR  12 LIB  10 SCO  10 SAG  10 AQU  11 ARI  11 TAU  12 CAN  12 LEO  
13 GEM  14 LEO  14 LEO  14 LIB  14 SCO  12 SAG  12 CAP  12 PIS  13 TAU  13 GEM  15 LEO  14 VIR  
16 CAN  16 VIR  16 VIR  16 SCO  16 SAG  14 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  16 GEM  16 CAN  17 VIR  16 LIB  
18 LEO  18 LIB  18 LIB  18 SAG  18 CAP  16 AQU  16 PIS  17 TAU  18 CAN  18 LEO  19 LIB  19 SCO  
20 VIR  21 SCO  20 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  19 PIS  18 ARI  20 GEM  21 LEO  21 VIR  21 SCO  21 SAG  
22 LIB  23 SAG  22 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  21 ARI  21 TAU  22 CAN  23 VIR  23 LIB  23 SAG  23 CAP  
24 SCO  25 CAP  24 CAP  25 PIS  25 ARI  23 TAU  23 GEM  24 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  25 CAP  25 AQU  
26 SAG  27 AQU  26 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  26 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  
29 CAP          29 PIS  30 TAU  30 GEM  28 CAN  28 LEO  29 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  
31 AQU          31 ARI                          30 VIR  31 SCO          31 AQU                  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 5 5



2004
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 TAU   2 CAN   3 LEO   1 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   1 PIS   2 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN   1 LEO  
3 GEM   4 LEO   5 VIR   4 LIB   3 SCO   4 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   5 GEM   5 CAN   3 LEO   3 VIR  
6 CAN   7 VIR   7 LIB   6 SCO   5 SAG   6 AQU   5 PIS   6 TAU   7 CAN   7 LEO   6 VIR   6 LIB  
8 LEO   9 LIB   9 SCO   8 SAG   7 CAP   8 PIS   7 ARI   8 GEM  10 LEO  10 VIR   8 LIB   8 SCO  

10 VIR  11 SCO  11 SAG  10 CAP   9 AQU  10 ARI  10 TAU  11 CAN  12 VIR  12 LIB  10 SCO  10 SAG  
13 LIB  13 SAG  14 CAP  12 AQU  11 PIS  12 TAU  12 GEM  13 LEO  14 LIB  14 SCO  13 SAG  12 CAP  
15 SCO  15 CAP  16 AQU  14 PIS  14 ARI  15 GEM  15 CAN  16 VIR  17 SCO  16 SAG  15 CAP  14 AQU  
17 SAG  17 AQU  18 PIS  16 ARI  16 TAU  17 CAN  17 LEO  18 LIB  19 SAG  18 CAP  17 AQU  16 PIS  
19 CAP  20 PIS  20 ARI  19 TAU  19 GEM  20 LEO  20 VIR  20 SCO  21 CAP  20 AQU  19 PIS  18 ARI  
21 AQU  22 ARI  23 TAU  21 GEM  21 CAN  22 VIR  22 LIB  23 SAG  23 AQU  23 PIS  21 ARI  21 TAU  
23 PIS  24 TAU  25 GEM  24 CAN  24 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  25 PIS  25 ARI  23 TAU  23 GEM  
25 ARI  27 GEM  28 CAN  26 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  26 GEM  25 CAN  
28 TAU  29 CAN  30 LEO  29 VIR  28 LIB  29 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  28 CAN  28 LEO  
30 GEM                          31 SCO          30 AQU  31 ARI                          31 VIR  

2005
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 LIB   1 SCO   2 SAG   3 AQU   2 PIS   3 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP  
4 SCO   3 SAG   4 CAP   5 PIS   4 ARI   5 GEM   5 CAN   3 LEO   5 LIB   4 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU  
6 SAG   5 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   6 TAU   7 CAN   7 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   7 SAG   5 CAP   7 PIS  
8 CAP   7 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   9 GEM  10 LEO  10 VIR   8 LIB   9 SAG   9 CAP   7 AQU   9 ARI  

10 AQU   9 PIS  10 ARI  11 GEM  11 CAN  12 VIR  12 LIB  11 SCO  12 CAP  11 AQU   9 PIS  11 TAU  
12 PIS  11 ARI  13 TAU  14 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  15 SCO  13 SAG  14 AQU  13 PIS  11 ARI  13 GEM  
15 ARI  13 TAU  15 GEM  16 LEO  16 VIR  17 SCO  17 SAG  15 CAP  16 PIS  15 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  
17 TAU  16 GEM  17 CAN  19 VIR  18 LIB  19 SAG  19 CAP  17 AQU  18 ARI  17 TAU  16 GEM  18 LEO  
19 GEM  18 CAN  20 LEO  21 LIB  21 SCO  21 CAP  21 AQU  19 PIS  20 TAU  19 GEM  18 CAN  20 VIR  
22 CAN  21 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  23 SAG  23 AQU  23 PIS  21 ARI  22 GEM  22 CAN  21 LEO  23 LIB  
24 LEO  23 VIR  25 LIB  26 SAG  25 CAP  25 PIS  25 ARI  23 TAU  24 CAN  24 LEO  23 VIR  25 SCO  
27 VIR  25 LIB  27 SCO  28 CAP  27 AQU  28 ARI  27 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  26 LIB  28 SAG  
29 LIB  28 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  29 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  28 CAN  29 VIR  29 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  

31 CAP          31 ARI                  31 LEO                  30 SAG          

2006
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 AQU   1 ARI   1 ARI   1 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU  
3 PIS   3 TAU   3 TAU   4 CAN   3 LEO   5 LIB   5 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU   4 PIS   4 TAU   3 GEM  
5 ARI   6 GEM   5 GEM   6 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   7 SAG   6 CAP   6 PIS   6 ARI   6 GEM   6 CAN  
7 TAU   8 CAN   7 CAN   8 VIR   8 LIB  10 SAG   9 CAP   8 AQU   8 ARI   8 TAU   8 CAN   8 LEO  
9 GEM  10 LEO  10 LEO  11 LIB  11 SCO  12 CAP  11 AQU  10 PIS  10 TAU  10 GEM  10 LEO  10 VIR  

12 CAN  13 VIR  12 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  14 AQU  13 PIS  12 ARI  12 GEM  12 CAN  13 VIR  13 LIB  
14 LEO  16 LIB  15 LIB  16 SAG  15 CAP  16 PIS  15 ARI  14 TAU  14 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  15 SCO  
17 VIR  18 SCO  17 SCO  18 CAP  18 AQU  18 ARI  17 TAU  16 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  18 SAG  
19 LIB  20 SAG  20 SAG  20 AQU  20 PIS  20 TAU  20 GEM  18 CAN  19 VIR  19 LIB  20 SAG  20 CAP  
22 SCO  23 CAP  22 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  22 GEM  22 CAN  21 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  
24 SAG  25 AQU  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  23 VIR  24 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  
26 CAP  27 PIS  26 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  
28 AQU          28 ARI  29 GEM  28 CAN  29 VIR  29 LIB  28 SCO  29 CAP  29 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  
30 PIS          30 TAU          31 LEO                  31 SAG          31 PIS          31 GEM  

2007
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 CAN   1 LEO   2 VIR   1 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   2 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   3 VIR   3 LIB  
4 LEO   3 VIR   5 LIB   3 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU   4 PIS   4 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   5 LIB   5 SCO  
7 VIR   5 LIB   7 SCO   6 SAG   6 CAP   7 PIS   6 ARI   6 GEM   5 CAN   7 VIR   8 SCO   8 SAG  
9 LIB   8 SCO  10 SAG   8 CAP   8 AQU   9 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN   7 LEO   9 LIB  10 SAG  10 CAP  

12 SCO  10 SAG  12 CAP  11 AQU  10 PIS  11 TAU  10 GEM  11 LEO   9 VIR  12 SCO  13 CAP  13 AQU  
14 SAG  13 CAP  14 AQU  13 PIS  12 ARI  13 GEM  12 CAN  13 VIR  12 LIB  14 SAG  15 AQU  15 PIS  
16 CAP  15 AQU  17 PIS  15 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  14 SCO  17 CAP  18 PIS  17 ARI  
19 AQU  17 PIS  19 ARI  17 TAU  16 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  17 SAG  19 AQU  20 ARI  19 TAU  
21 PIS  19 ARI  21 TAU  19 GEM  18 CAN  19 VIR  19 LIB  20 SAG  19 CAP  21 PIS  22 TAU  21 GEM  
23 ARI  21 TAU  23 GEM  21 CAN  21 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  23 ARI  24 GEM  23 CAN  
25 TAU  23 GEM  25 CAN  23 LEO  23 VIR  24 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  26 CAN  25 LEO  
27 GEM  25 CAN  27 LEO  26 VIR  25 LIB  27 SAG  27 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  28 LEO  27 VIR  
29 CAN  28 LEO  29 VIR  28 LIB  28 SCO  29 CAP  29 AQU  29 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  30 VIR  30 LIB  

31 SAG          31 PIS          30 GEM  31 LEO                  

4 5 6 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



2008
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 SCO   3 CAP   1 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   2 VIR   1 LIB   3 SAG   2 CAP   2 AQU  
4 SAG   5 AQU   3 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU   4 CAN   4 LEO   4 LIB   3 SCO   5 CAP   4 AQU   4 PIS  
6 CAP   7 PIS   6 PIS   6 TAU   6 GEM   6 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   6 SAG   8 AQU   7 PIS   6 ARI  
9 AQU  10 ARI   8 ARI   8 GEM   8 CAN   8 VIR   8 LIB   9 SAG   8 CAP  10 PIS   9 ARI   9 TAU  

11 PIS  12 TAU  10 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO  11 LIB  10 SCO  12 CAP  11 AQU  13 ARI  11 TAU  11 GEM  
13 ARI  14 GEM  12 GEM  13 LEO  12 VIR  13 SCO  13 SAG  14 AQU  13 PIS  15 TAU  13 GEM  13 CAN  
15 TAU  16 CAN  14 CAN  15 VIR  14 LIB  16 SAG  15 CAP  17 PIS  15 ARI  17 GEM  15 CAN  15 LEO  
18 GEM  18 LEO  16 LEO  17 LIB  17 SCO  18 CAP  18 AQU  19 ARI  17 TAU  19 CAN  17 LEO  17 VIR  
20 CAN  20 VIR  19 VIR  20 SCO  19 SAG  21 AQU  20 PIS  21 TAU  19 GEM  21 LEO  19 VIR  19 LIB  
22 LEO  23 LIB  21 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  23 PIS  23 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  21 SCO  
24 VIR  25 SCO  23 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  25 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  24 SAG  
26 LIB  28 SAG  26 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  28 TAU  27 GEM  27 LEO  26 VIR  28 SCO  27 SAG  26 CAP  
29 SCO          28 CAP  30 PIS  29 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  30 VIR  28 LIB  30 SAG  29 CAP  29 AQU  
31 SAG          31 AQU          31 TAU          31 LEO          30 SCO                  31 PIS  

2009
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
3 ARI   1 TAU   3 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   1 LIB   3 SAG   2 CAP   3 PIS   3 ARI   1 TAU   1 GEM  
5 TAU   3 GEM   5 CAN   3 LEO   5 LIB   3 SCO   5 CAP   4 AQU   5 ARI   5 TAU   3 GEM   3 CAN  
7 GEM   5 CAN   7 LEO   5 VIR   7 SCO   6 SAG   8 AQU   7 PIS   8 TAU   7 GEM   6 CAN   5 LEO  
9 CAN   7 LEO   9 VIR   7 LIB   9 SAG   8 CAP  10 PIS   9 ARI  10 GEM   9 CAN   8 LEO   7 VIR  

11 LEO  10 VIR  11 LIB  10 SCO  12 CAP  11 AQU  13 ARI  11 TAU  12 CAN  12 LEO  10 VIR   9 LIB  
13 VIR  12 LIB  13 SCO  12 SAG  14 AQU  13 PIS  15 TAU  14 GEM  14 LEO  14 VIR  12 LIB  11 SCO  
15 LIB  14 SCO  16 SAG  15 CAP  17 PIS  16 ARI  17 GEM  16 CAN  16 VIR  16 LIB  14 SCO  14 SAG  
18 SCO  16 SAG  18 CAP  17 AQU  19 ARI  18 TAU  19 CAN  18 LEO  18 LIB  18 SCO  17 SAG  16 CAP  
20 SAG  19 CAP  21 AQU  20 PIS  21 TAU  20 GEM  21 LEO  20 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  19 CAP  19 AQU  
23 CAP  21 AQU  23 PIS  22 ARI  24 GEM  22 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  23 SAG  23 CAP  21 AQU  21 PIS  
25 AQU  24 PIS  26 ARI  24 TAU  26 CAN  24 LEO  26 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  25 AQU  24 PIS  24 ARI  
28 PIS  26 ARI  28 TAU  26 GEM  28 LEO  26 VIR  28 SCO  26 SAG  28 AQU  28 PIS  26 ARI  26 TAU  
30 ARI  28 TAU  30 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  28 LIB  30 SAG  29 CAP  30 PIS  30 ARI  29 TAU  28 GEM  

30 LEO          30 SCO          31 AQU                          30 CAN  

2010
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 LEO   2 LIB   1 LIB   2 SAG   2 CAP   1 AQU   3 ARI   2 TAU   3 CAN   2 LEO   3 LIB   2 SCO  
3 VIR   4 SCO   3 SCO   4 CAP   4 AQU   3 PIS   5 TAU   4 GEM   5 LEO   4 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG  
5 LIB   6 SAG   6 SAG   7 AQU   7 PIS   6 ARI   8 GEM   6 CAN   7 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP  
8 SCO   9 CAP   8 CAP   9 PIS   9 ARI   8 TAU  10 CAN   8 LEO   9 LIB   8 SCO   9 CAP   9 AQU  

10 SAG  11 AQU  11 AQU  12 ARI  12 TAU  10 GEM  12 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO  10 SAG  11 AQU  11 PIS  
12 CAP  14 PIS  13 PIS  14 TAU  14 GEM  12 CAN  14 VIR  12 LIB  13 SAG  12 CAP  14 PIS  14 ARI  
15 AQU  16 ARI  16 ARI  17 GEM  16 CAN  14 LEO  16 LIB  14 SCO  15 CAP  15 AQU  16 ARI  16 TAU  
18 PIS  19 TAU  18 TAU  19 CAN  18 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  17 SAG  18 AQU  17 PIS  19 TAU  18 GEM  
20 ARI  21 GEM  20 GEM  21 LEO  20 VIR  19 LIB  20 SAG  19 CAP  20 PIS  20 ARI  21 GEM  21 CAN  
22 TAU  23 CAN  23 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  21 SCO  23 CAP  21 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  23 CAN  23 LEO  
25 GEM  25 LEO  25 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  23 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  26 LEO  25 VIR  
27 CAN  27 VIR  27 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  25 CAP  28 PIS  26 ARI  28 GEM  27 CAN  28 VIR  27 LIB  
29 LEO          29 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  28 AQU  30 ARI  29 TAU  30 CAN  29 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  
31 VIR          31 SCO                  30 PIS          31 GEM          31 VIR          31 SAG  

2011
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
3 CAP   1 AQU   1 AQU   2 ARI   2 TAU   3 CAN   2 LEO   1 VIR   1 SCO   3 CAP   1 AQU   1 PIS  
5 AQU   4 PIS   3 PIS   4 TAU   4 GEM   5 LEO   4 VIR   3 LIB   3 SAG   5 AQU   4 PIS   3 ARI  
7 PIS   6 ARI   6 ARI   7 GEM   6 CAN   7 VIR   6 LIB   5 SCO   5 CAP   7 PIS   6 ARI   6 TAU  

10 ARI   9 TAU   8 TAU   9 CAN   9 LEO   9 LIB   9 SCO   7 SAG   8 AQU  10 ARI   9 TAU   8 GEM  
12 TAU  11 GEM  11 GEM  11 LEO  11 VIR  11 SCO  11 SAG   9 CAP  10 PIS  12 TAU  11 GEM  11 CAN  
15 GEM  14 CAN  13 CAN  14 VIR  13 LIB  13 SAG  13 CAP  11 AQU  13 ARI  15 GEM  14 CAN  13 LEO  
17 CAN  16 LEO  15 LEO  16 LIB  15 SCO  16 CAP  15 AQU  14 PIS  15 TAU  17 CAN  16 LEO  15 VIR  
19 LEO  18 VIR  17 VIR  18 SCO  17 SAG  18 AQU  18 PIS  16 ARI  18 GEM  20 LEO  18 VIR  18 LIB  
21 VIR  20 LIB  19 LIB  20 SAG  19 CAP  20 PIS  20 ARI  19 TAU  20 CAN  22 VIR  20 LIB  20 SCO  
23 LIB  22 SCO  21 SCO  22 CAP  21 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  21 GEM  22 LEO  24 LIB  22 SCO  22 SAG  
25 SCO  24 SAG  23 SAG  24 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  24 CAN  24 VIR  26 SCO  24 SAG  24 CAP  
28 SAG  26 CAP  25 CAP  26 PIS  26 ARI  28 GEM  27 CAN  26 LEO  26 LIB  28 SAG  26 CAP  26 AQU  
30 CAP          28 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  30 CAN  30 LEO  28 VIR  28 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  28 PIS  

30 PIS          31 GEM                  30 LIB  30 SAG                  31 ARI  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 5 7



2012
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 TAU   1 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   3 CAN   2 LEO  
5 GEM   4 CAN   4 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   4 GEM   5 LEO   5 VIR  
7 CAN   6 LEO   6 VIR   5 LIB   6 SAG   5 CAP   6 PIS   5 ARI   6 GEM   6 CAN   7 VIR   7 LIB  
9 LEO   8 VIR   8 LIB   7 SCO   8 CAP   7 AQU   9 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN   9 LEO  10 LIB   9 SCO  

12 VIR  10 LIB  11 SCO   9 SAG  11 AQU   9 PIS  11 TAU  10 GEM  11 LEO  11 VIR  12 SCO  11 SAG  
14 LIB  12 SCO  13 SAG  11 CAP  13 PIS  11 ARI  14 GEM  13 CAN  14 VIR  13 LIB  14 SAG  13 CAP  
16 SCO  14 SAG  15 CAP  13 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  16 CAN  15 LEO  16 LIB  15 SCO  16 CAP  15 AQU  
18 SAG  17 CAP  17 AQU  16 PIS  18 TAU  17 GEM  19 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  17 SAG  18 AQU  17 PIS  
20 CAP  19 AQU  19 PIS  18 ARI  20 GEM  19 CAN  21 VIR  19 LIB  20 SAG  19 CAP  20 PIS  20 ARI  
22 AQU  21 PIS  22 ARI  20 TAU  23 CAN  21 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  22 CAP  22 AQU  22 ARI  22 TAU  
25 PIS  23 ARI  24 TAU  23 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  24 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  
27 ARI  26 TAU  27 GEM  26 CAN  28 VIR  26 LIB  28 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  
30 TAU  28 GEM  29 CAN  28 LEO  30 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  30 CAN  30 LEO  

30 VIR          30 SAG          30 PIS          31 GEM                  

2013
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG  
3 LIB   4 SAG   3 SAG   4 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   4 GEM   5 LEO   4 VIR   3 LIB   4 SAG   4 CAP  
6 SCO   6 CAP   5 CAP   6 PIS   5 ARI   6 GEM   6 CAN   7 VIR   6 LIB   6 SCO   6 CAP   6 AQU  
8 SAG   8 AQU   7 AQU   8 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN   9 LEO  10 LIB   8 SCO   8 SAG   8 AQU   8 PIS  

10 CAP  10 PIS  10 PIS  10 TAU  10 GEM  11 LEO  11 VIR  12 SCO  11 SAG  10 CAP  10 PIS  10 ARI  
12 AQU  12 ARI  12 ARI  13 GEM  13 CAN  14 VIR  14 LIB  14 SAG  13 CAP  12 AQU  13 ARI  12 TAU  
14 PIS  15 TAU  14 TAU  15 CAN  15 LEO  16 LIB  16 SCO  16 CAP  15 AQU  14 PIS  15 TAU  15 GEM  
16 ARI  17 GEM  17 GEM  18 LEO  18 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  18 AQU  17 PIS  16 ARI  17 GEM  17 CAN  
18 TAU  20 CAN  19 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  20 PIS  19 ARI  19 TAU  20 CAN  20 LEO  
21 GEM  22 LEO  22 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  23 ARI  21 TAU  21 GEM  22 LEO  22 VIR  
23 CAN  25 VIR  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  24 GEM  23 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  
26 LEO  27 LIB  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  26 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  27 SCO  
28 VIR          28 SCO  29 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  28 TAU  30 CAN  29 LEO  28 VIR  29 SCO  29 SAG  
31 LIB          30 SAG          30 PIS          31 GEM                  31 LIB          31 CAP  

2014
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 AQU   2 ARI   2 ARI   1 TAU   3 CAN   1 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SAG   3 AQU   1 PIS   3 TAU  
4 PIS   5 TAU   4 TAU   3 GEM   5 LEO   4 VIR   4 LIB   5 SAG   3 CAP   5 PIS   3 ARI   5 GEM  
6 ARI   7 GEM   6 GEM   5 CAN   8 VIR   6 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   5 AQU   7 ARI   5 TAU   7 CAN  
8 TAU  10 CAN   9 CAN   8 LEO  10 LIB   9 SCO   8 SAG   9 AQU   7 PIS   9 TAU   7 GEM   9 LEO  

11 GEM  12 LEO  11 LEO  10 VIR  12 SCO  11 SAG  10 CAP  11 PIS   9 ARI  11 GEM  10 CAN  12 VIR  
13 CAN  15 VIR  14 VIR  13 LIB  15 SAG  13 CAP  12 AQU  13 ARI  11 TAU  13 CAN  12 LEO  14 LIB  
16 LEO  17 LIB  16 LIB  15 SCO  17 CAP  15 AQU  14 PIS  15 TAU  14 GEM  16 LEO  15 VIR  17 SCO  
18 VIR  19 SCO  19 SCO  17 SAG  19 AQU  17 PIS  16 ARI  17 GEM  16 CAN  18 VIR  17 LIB  19 SAG  
21 LIB  22 SAG  21 SAG  19 CAP  21 PIS  19 ARI  19 TAU  20 CAN  18 LEO  21 LIB  20 SCO  21 CAP  
23 SCO  24 CAP  23 CAP  21 AQU  23 ARI  21 TAU  21 GEM  22 LEO  21 VIR  23 SCO  22 SAG  23 AQU  
25 SAG  26 AQU  25 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  24 GEM  23 CAN  25 VIR  23 LIB  25 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  
28 CAP  28 PIS  27 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  26 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  26 SCO  28 CAP  26 AQU  28 ARI  
29 AQU          29 ARI  28 TAU  30 CAN  29 LEO  28 VIR  30 SCO  28 SAG  30 AQU  28 PIS  30 TAU  
31 PIS                  30 GEM                  31 LIB          30 CAP          30 ARI          

2015
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 GEM   2 LEO   1 LEO   3 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   2 VIR  
3 CAN   5 VIR   4 VIR   5 SCO   5 SAG   3 CAP   3 AQU   3 ARI   4 GEM   3 CAN   4 VIR   4 LIB  
6 LEO   7 LIB   6 LIB   8 SAG   7 CAP   6 AQU   5 PIS   5 TAU   6 CAN   6 LEO   7 LIB   7 SCO  
8 VIR  10 SCO   9 SCO  10 CAP   9 AQU   8 PIS   7 ARI   8 GEM   8 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO   9 SAG  

11 LIB  12 SAG  11 SAG  12 AQU  11 PIS  10 ARI   9 TAU  10 CAN  11 VIR  11 LIB  12 SAG  12 CAP  
13 SCO  14 CAP  14 CAP  14 PIS  14 ARI  12 TAU  11 GEM  12 LEO  13 LIB  13 SCO  14 CAP  14 AQU  
16 SAG  16 AQU  16 AQU  16 ARI  16 TAU  14 GEM  14 CAN  15 VIR  16 SCO  16 SAG  17 AQU  16 PIS  
18 CAP  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  16 CAN  16 LEO  17 LIB  18 SAG  18 CAP  19 PIS  18 ARI  
20 AQU  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  19 LEO  18 VIR  20 SCO  21 CAP  20 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  
22 PIS  22 TAU  22 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  21 VIR  21 LIB  22 SAG  23 AQU  23 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  
24 ARI  24 GEM  24 GEM  25 LEO  25 VIR  24 LIB  23 SCO  24 CAP  25 PIS  25 ARI  25 GEM  25 CAN  
26 TAU  27 CAN  26 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  26 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  
28 GEM          29 LEO  30 LIB  30 SCO  28 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  29 TAU  29 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  
31 CAN          31 VIR                          30 AQU  31 ARI          31 CAN                  

4 5 8 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



2016
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 LIB   2 SAG   3 CAP   1 AQU   1 PIS   1 TAU   1 GEM   1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP  
3 SCO   4 CAP   5 AQU   4 PIS   3 ARI   3 GEM   3 CAN   4 VIR   5 SCO   5 SAG   3 CAP   3 AQU  
6 SAG   7 AQU   7 PIS   6 ARI   5 TAU   5 CAN   5 LEO   6 LIB   7 SAG   7 CAP   6 AQU   5 PIS  
8 CAP   9 PIS   9 ARI   8 TAU   7 GEM   8 LEO   7 VIR   8 SCO  10 CAP  10 AQU   8 PIS   8 ARI  

10 AQU  11 ARI  11 TAU  10 GEM   9 CAN  10 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG  12 AQU  12 PIS  10 ARI  10 TAU  
12 PIS  13 TAU  13 GEM  12 CAN  11 LEO  12 LIB  12 SCO  13 CAP  14 PIS  14 ARI  12 TAU  12 GEM  
14 ARI  15 GEM  15 CAN  14 LEO  14 VIR  15 SCO  15 SAG  16 AQU  16 ARI  16 TAU  14 GEM  14 CAN  
17 TAU  17 CAN  18 LEO  16 VIR  16 LIB  17 SAG  17 CAP  18 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  16 CAN  16 LEO  
19 GEM  19 LEO  20 VIR  19 LIB  19 SCO  20 CAP  19 AQU  20 ARI  21 GEM  20 CAN  18 LEO  18 VIR  
21 CAN  22 VIR  23 LIB  21 SCO  21 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  22 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  21 VIR  20 LIB  
23 LEO  24 LIB  25 SCO  24 SAG  24 CAP  24 PIS  24 ARI  24 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  23 LIB  23 SCO  
25 VIR  27 SCO  28 SAG  26 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  26 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  26 SCO  25 SAG  
28 LIB  29 SAG  30 CAP  29 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  28 GEM  29 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  28 SAG  28 CAP  
30 SCO                          30 ARI          30 CAN  31 VIR                          30 AQU  

2017
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 PIS   2 TAU   2 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM  
4 ARI   4 GEM   4 GEM   4 LEO   4 VIR   5 SCO   5 SAG   3 CAP   5 PIS   4 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN  
6 TAU   7 CAN   6 CAN   6 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   7 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   6 TAU   5 GEM   6 LEO  
8 GEM   9 LEO   8 LEO   9 LIB   9 SCO  10 CAP  10 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   8 GEM   7 CAN   8 VIR  

10 CAN  11 VIR  10 VIR  11 SCO  11 SAG  12 AQU  12 PIS  11 ARI  11 GEM  10 CAN   9 LEO  11 LIB  
12 LEO  13 LIB  13 LIB  14 SAG  14 CAP  15 PIS  14 ARI  13 TAU  13 CAN  13 LEO  11 VIR  13 SCO  
14 VIR  16 SCO  15 SCO  16 CAP  16 AQU  17 ARI  17 TAU  15 GEM  15 LEO  15 VIR  13 LIB  15 SAG  
17 LIB  18 SAG  17 SAG  19 AQU  18 PIS  19 TAU  19 GEM  17 CAN  17 VIR  17 LIB  16 SCO  18 CAP  
19 SCO  21 CAP  20 CAP  21 PIS  21 ARI  21 GEM  21 CAN  19 LEO  20 LIB  19 SCO  18 SAG  20 AQU  
22 SAG  23 AQU  22 AQU  23 ARI  23 TAU  23 CAN  23 LEO  21 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  21 CAP  23 PIS  
24 CAP  25 PIS  25 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  25 LEO  25 VIR  23 LIB  24 SAG  24 CAP  23 AQU  25 ARI  
27 AQU  27 ARI  27 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  26 PIS  28 TAU  
29 PIS          29 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  28 SAG  29 AQU  29 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  
31 ARI          31 GEM          31 VIR                  31 CAP                  30 TAU          

2018
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 CAN   1 VIR   1 VIR   1 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   1 LIB  
3 LEO   3 LIB   3 LIB   4 SAG   3 CAP   5 PIS   4 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB   3 SCO  
5 VIR   5 SCO   5 SCO   6 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   7 TAU   5 GEM   6 LEO   5 VIR   6 SCO   5 SAG  
7 LIB   8 SAG   7 SAG   9 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   9 GEM   7 CAN   8 VIR   7 LIB   8 SAG   8 CAP  
9 SCO  10 CAP  10 CAP  11 PIS  11 ARI  12 GEM  11 CAN   9 LEO  10 LIB   9 SCO  10 CAP  10 AQU  

12 SAG  13 AQU  12 AQU  13 ARI  13 TAU  14 CAN  13 LEO  11 VIR  12 SCO  12 SAG  13 AQU  13 PIS  
14 CAP  15 PIS  15 PIS  16 TAU  15 GEM  16 LEO  15 VIR  13 LIB  14 SAG  14 CAP  15 PIS  15 ARI  
17 AQU  18 ARI  17 ARI  18 GEM  17 CAN  18 VIR  17 LIB  16 SCO  17 CAP  17 AQU  18 ARI  18 TAU  
19 PIS  20 TAU  19 TAU  20 CAN  19 LEO  20 LIB  19 SCO  18 SAG  19 AQU  19 PIS  20 TAU  20 GEM  
22 ARI  22 GEM  22 GEM  22 LEO  21 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  20 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  22 GEM  22 CAN  
24 TAU  24 CAN  24 CAN  24 VIR  24 LIB  24 SAG  24 CAP  23 AQU  24 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  
26 GEM  26 LEO  26 LEO  26 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  26 VIR  
28 CAN          28 VIR  29 SCO  28 SAG  29 AQU  29 PIS  28 ARI  29 GEM  28 CAN  29 VIR  28 LIB  
30 LEO          30 LIB          31 CAP                  30 TAU          30 LEO          30 SCO  

2019
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 SAG   3 AQU   2 AQU   1 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG   3 AQU   3 PIS  
4 CAP   5 PIS   5 PIS   3 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB   4 SAG   4 CAP   5 PIS   5 ARI  
7 AQU   8 ARI   7 ARI   6 TAU   5 GEM   6 LEO   5 VIR   6 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU   8 ARI   8 TAU  
9 PIS  10 TAU  10 TAU   8 GEM   8 CAN   8 VIR   8 LIB   8 SAG   9 AQU   9 PIS  10 TAU  10 GEM  

12 ARI  13 GEM  12 GEM  10 CAN  10 LEO  10 LIB  10 SCO  10 CAP  12 PIS  11 ARI  13 GEM  12 CAN  
14 TAU  15 CAN  14 CAN  13 LEO  12 VIR  12 SCO  12 SAG  13 AQU  14 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  14 LEO  
16 GEM  17 LEO  16 LEO  15 VIR  14 LIB  15 SAG  14 CAP  15 PIS  17 TAU  16 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  
18 CAN  19 VIR  18 VIR  17 LIB  16 SCO  17 CAP  17 AQU  18 ARI  19 GEM  19 CAN  19 VIR  19 LIB  
20 LEO  21 LIB  20 LIB  19 SCO  18 SAG  19 AQU  19 PIS  20 TAU  21 CAN  21 LEO  21 LIB  21 SCO  
22 VIR  23 SCO  22 SCO  21 SAG  21 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  23 GEM  24 LEO  23 VIR  24 SCO  23 SAG  
24 LIB  25 SAG  25 SAG  23 CAP  23 AQU  24 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  26 VIR  25 LIB  26 SAG  25 CAP  
27 SCO  28 CAP  27 CAP  26 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 GEM  27 LEO  28 LIB  27 SCO  28 CAP  28 AQU  
29 SAG          29 AQU  28 PIS  28 ARI  29 GEM  29 CAN  29 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  30 PIS  
31 CAP                          30 TAU          31 LEO  31 LIB          31 CAP                  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 5 9



2020
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 ARI   3 GEM   1 GEM   2 LEO   2 VIR   2 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   1 PIS   3 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN  
4 TAU   5 CAN   3 CAN   4 VIR   4 LIB   4 SAG   3 CAP   4 PIS   3 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN   4 LEO  
6 GEM   7 LEO   6 LEO   6 LIB   6 SCO   6 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   6 TAU   8 CAN   7 LEO   6 VIR  
9 CAN   9 VIR   8 VIR   8 SCO   8 SAG   8 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   8 GEM  10 LEO   9 VIR   8 LIB  

11 LEO  11 LIB  10 LIB  10 SAG  10 CAP  11 PIS  11 ARI  12 GEM  11 CAN  12 VIR  11 LIB  10 SCO  
13 VIR  13 SCO  12 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  13 ARI  13 TAU  14 CAN  13 LEO  15 LIB  13 SCO  12 SAG  
15 LIB  15 SAG  14 SAG  15 AQU  14 PIS  16 TAU  16 GEM  17 LEO  15 VIR  17 SCO  15 SAG  14 CAP  
17 SCO  18 CAP  16 CAP  17 PIS  17 ARI  18 GEM  18 CAN  19 VIR  17 LIB  18 SAG  17 CAP  17 AQU  
19 SAG  20 AQU  18 AQU  20 ARI  19 TAU  21 CAN  20 LEO  21 LIB  19 SCO  21 CAP  19 AQU  19 PIS  
22 CAP  23 PIS  21 PIS  22 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  21 SAG  23 AQU  21 PIS  21 ARI  
24 AQU  25 ARI  23 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  23 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  24 TAU  
26 PIS  28 TAU  26 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  27 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  26 AQU  28 ARI  26 TAU  26 GEM  
29 ARI          28 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  29 SCO  29 SAG  29 AQU  28 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  29 CAN  
31 TAU          31 CAN          31 LIB          31 CAP          30 ARI                  31 LEO  

2021
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   1 PIS   3 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN   3 VIR   1 LIB   1 SCO  
5 LIB   3 SCO   4 SAG   3 CAP   4 PIS   3 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN   3 LEO   5 LIB   3 SCO   3 SAG  
7 SCO   5 SAG   6 CAP   5 AQU   7 ARI   6 TAU   8 CAN   7 LEO   5 VIR   7 SCO   5 SAG   5 CAP  
9 SAG   7 CAP   9 AQU   7 PIS   9 TAU   8 GEM  10 LEO   9 VIR   7 LIB   9 SAG   7 CAP   7 AQU  

11 CAP   9 AQU  11 PIS  10 ARI  12 GEM  11 CAN  13 VIR  11 LIB  10 SCO  11 CAP   9 AQU   9 PIS  
13 AQU  12 PIS  13 ARI  12 TAU  14 CAN  13 LEO  15 LIB  13 SCO  12 SAG  13 AQU  12 PIS  11 ARI  
15 PIS  14 ARI  16 TAU  15 GEM  17 LEO  15 VIR  17 SCO  15 SAG  14 CAP  15 PIS  14 ARI  14 TAU  
18 ARI  16 TAU  18 GEM  17 CAN  19 VIR  18 LIB  19 SAG  18 CAP  16 AQU  18 ARI  16 TAU  16 GEM  
20 TAU  19 GEM  21 CAN  20 LEO  21 LIB  20 SCO  21 CAP  20 AQU  18 PIS  20 TAU  19 GEM  19 CAN  
23 GEM  21 CAN  23 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  22 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  20 ARI  23 GEM  21 CAN  21 LEO  
25 CAN  24 LEO  25 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  23 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  24 VIR  
27 LEO  26 VIR  28 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  26 AQU  28 ARI  26 TAU  25 GEM  28 LEO  26 VIR  26 LIB  
30 VIR  28 LIB  30 SCO  28 SAG  29 AQU  28 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  29 LIB  28 SCO  

30 CAP          30 ARI                  30 LEO                  30 SAG  

2022
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 CAP   2 PIS   1 PIS   2 TAU   2 GEM   1 CAN   3 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   2 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI  
3 AQU   4 ARI   3 ARI   4 GEM   4 CAN   3 LEO   5 LIB   4 SCO   4 CAP   4 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU  
5 PIS   6 TAU   6 TAU   7 CAN   7 LEO   6 VIR   8 SCO   6 SAG   6 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   6 GEM  
8 ARI   9 GEM   8 GEM   9 LEO   9 VIR   8 LIB  10 SAG   8 CAP   8 PIS   8 ARI   9 GEM   9 CAN  

10 TAU  11 CAN  11 CAN  12 VIR  12 LIB  10 SCO  12 CAP  10 AQU  11 ARI  10 TAU  11 CAN  11 LEO  
12 GEM  14 LEO  13 LEO  14 LIB  14 SCO  12 SAG  14 AQU  12 PIS  13 TAU  13 GEM  14 LEO  14 VIR  
15 CAN  16 VIR  15 VIR  16 SCO  16 SAG  14 CAP  16 PIS  14 ARI  15 GEM  15 CAN  16 VIR  16 LIB  
17 LEO  18 LIB  18 LIB  18 SAG  18 CAP  16 AQU  18 ARI  16 TAU  18 CAN  17 LEO  19 LIB  18 SCO  
20 VIR  21 SCO  20 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  18 PIS  20 TAU  19 GEM  20 LEO  20 VIR  21 SCO  21 SAG  
22 LIB  23 SAG  22 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  20 ARI  23 GEM  21 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  23 SAG  23 CAP  
24 SCO  25 CAP  24 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  23 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  25 CAP  25 AQU  
27 SAG  27 AQU  26 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  25 GEM  28 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  
29 CAP          28 PIS  29 TAU  29 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  29 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  
31 AQU          31 ARI                  30 LEO          31 SCO          31 AQU          31 TAU  

2023
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 GEM   1 CAN   3 LEO   2 VIR   2 LIB   3 SAG   2 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   3 GEM   1 CAN   1 LEO  
5 CAN   4 LEO   5 VIR   4 LIB   4 SCO   5 CAP   4 AQU   4 ARI   3 TAU   5 CAN   4 LEO   3 VIR  
7 LEO   6 VIR   8 LIB   7 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   5 GEM   7 LEO   6 VIR   6 LIB  

10 VIR   9 LIB  10 SCO   9 SAG   8 CAP   9 PIS   8 ARI   9 GEM   8 CAN  10 VIR   9 LIB   8 SCO  
12 LIB  11 SCO  13 SAG  11 CAP  10 AQU  11 ARI  10 TAU  11 CAN  10 LEO  12 LIB  11 SCO  11 SAG  
15 SCO  13 SAG  15 CAP  13 AQU  12 PIS  13 TAU  13 GEM  14 LEO  13 VIR  15 SCO  13 SAG  13 CAP  
17 SAG  16 CAP  17 AQU  15 PIS  15 ARI  15 GEM  15 CAN  16 VIR  15 LIB  17 SAG  16 CAP  15 AQU  
19 CAP  18 AQU  19 PIS  17 ARI  17 TAU  18 CAN  17 LEO  19 LIB  17 SCO  19 CAP  18 AQU  17 PIS  
21 AQU  19 PIS  21 ARI  19 TAU  19 GEM  20 LEO  20 VIR  21 SCO  20 SAG  22 AQU  20 PIS  19 ARI  
23 PIS  22 ARI  23 TAU  22 GEM  21 CAN  23 VIR  23 LIB  24 SAG  22 CAP  24 PIS  22 ARI  21 TAU  
25 ARI  24 TAU  25 GEM  24 CAN  24 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  26 CAP  24 AQU  26 ARI  24 TAU  24 GEM  
27 TAU  26 GEM  28 CAN  27 LEO  26 VIR  28 SCO  27 SAG  28 AQU  26 PIS  28 TAU  26 GEM  26 CAN  
30 GEM  28 CAN  30 LEO  29 VIR  29 LIB  30 SAG  29 CAP  30 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  28 LEO  

31 SCO          31 AQU          30 TAU                  31 VIR  

4 6 0 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



2024
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 LIB   1 SCO   2 SAG   3 AQU   2 PIS   3 TAU   2 GEM   3 LEO   1 VIR   1 LIB   3 SAG   2 CAP  
5 SCO   4 SAG   4 CAP   5 PIS   4 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN   5 VIR   4 LIB   4 SCO   5 CAP   4 AQU  
7 SAG   6 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   6 TAU   7 CAN   6 LEO   8 LIB   7 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   7 PIS  
9 CAP   8 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   8 GEM   9 LEO   9 VIR  10 SCO   9 SAG   9 CAP   9 PIS   9 ARI  

11 AQU  10 PIS  10 ARI  11 GEM  10 CAN  12 VIR  11 LIB  13 SAG  11 CAP  11 AQU  12 ARI  11 TAU  
13 PIS  12 ARI  12 TAU  13 CAN  13 LEO  14 LIB  14 SCO  15 CAP  14 AQU  13 PIS  14 TAU  13 GEM  
15 ARI  14 TAU  14 GEM  15 LEO  15 VIR  17 SCO  16 SAG  17 AQU  16 PIS  15 ARI  16 GEM  15 CAN  
18 TAU  16 GEM  17 CAN  18 VIR  18 LIB  19 SAG  19 CAP  19 PIS  18 ARI  17 TAU  18 CAN  17 LEO  
20 GEM  18 CAN  19 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  21 CAP  21 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  19 GEM  20 LEO  20 VIR  
22 CAN  21 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  23 SAG  23 AQU  23 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  21 CAN  22 VIR  22 LIB  
25 LEO  23 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  26 PIS  25 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  24 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  
27 VIR  26 LIB  27 SCO  28 CAP  27 AQU  28 ARI  27 TAU  28 CAN  26 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  
30 LIB  28 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  29 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  30 LEO  29 VIR  28 LIB  30 SAG  29 CAP  

31 CAP          31 ARI          31 CAN                  31 SCO                  

2025
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 AQU   1 ARI   1 ARI   1 GEM   1 CAN   1 VIR   1 LIB   3 SAG   1 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU  
3 PIS   3 TAU   3 TAU   3 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB   4 SCO   5 CAP   4 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   3 GEM  
5 ARI   6 GEM   5 GEM   5 LEO   5 VIR   6 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   6 PIS   5 ARI   6 GEM   5 CAN  
7 TAU   8 CAN   7 CAN   8 VIR   8 LIB   9 SAG   9 CAP  10 PIS   8 ARI   8 TAU   8 CAN   7 LEO  
9 GEM  10 LEO   9 LEO  10 LIB  10 SCO  11 CAP  11 AQU  12 ARI  10 TAU  10 GEM  10 LEO  10 VIR  

11 CAN  12 VIR  12 VIR  13 SCO  13 SAG  14 AQU  13 PIS  14 TAU  12 GEM  12 CAN  12 VIR  12 LIB  
14 LEO  15 LIB  14 LIB  15 SAG  15 CAP  16 PIS  15 ARI  16 GEM  14 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  14 SCO  
16 VIR  17 SCO  17 SCO  18 CAP  18 AQU  18 ARI  18 TAU  18 CAN  17 LEO  16 VIR  17 SCO  17 SAG  
18 LIB  20 SAG  19 SAG  20 AQU  20 PIS  20 TAU  20 GEM  20 LEO  19 VIR  18 LIB  20 SAG  19 CAP  
21 SCO  22 CAP  22 CAP  23 PIS  22 ARI  22 GEM  22 CAN  23 VIR  21 LIB  21 SCO  22 CAP  22 AQU  
23 SAG  25 AQU  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  24 CAN  24 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  23 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  
26 CAP  27 PIS  26 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  26 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  
28 AQU          28 ARI  29 GEM  28 CAN  29 VIR  29 LIB  30 SAG  29 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  
30 PIS          30 TAU          30 LEO          31 SCO                  31 PIS          31 GEM  

2026
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 CAN   2 VIR   2 VIR   3 SCO   3 SAG   1 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   3 VIR   2 LIB  
4 LEO   5 LIB   4 LIB   5 SAG   5 CAP   4 AQU   4 PIS   4 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   5 LIB   4 SCO  
6 VIR   7 SCO   6 SCO   8 CAP   8 AQU   6 PIS   6 ARI   7 GEM   5 CAN   6 VIR   7 SCO   7 SAG  
8 LIB  10 SAG   9 SAG  10 AQU  10 PIS   9 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN   7 LEO   9 LIB  10 SAG   9 CAP  

11 SCO  12 CAP  11 CAP  13 PIS  12 ARI  11 TAU  10 GEM  11 LEO   9 VIR  11 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  
13 SAG  15 AQU  14 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  13 GEM  12 CAN  13 VIR  11 LIB  13 SAG  15 AQU  14 PIS  
16 CAP  17 PIS  16 PIS  17 TAU  16 GEM  15 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  14 SCO  16 CAP  17 PIS  17 ARI  
18 AQU  19 ARI  18 ARI  19 GEM  18 CAN  17 LEO  16 VIR  17 SCO  16 SAG  18 AQU  20 ARI  19 TAU  
21 PIS  21 TAU  21 TAU  21 CAN  20 LEO  19 VIR  18 LIB  20 SAG  18 CAP  21 PIS  22 TAU  21 GEM  
23 ARI  23 GEM  23 GEM  23 LEO  23 VIR  21 LIB  21 SCO  22 CAP  21 AQU  23 ARI  24 GEM  23 CAN  
25 TAU  26 CAN  25 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  24 SCO  23 SAG  25 AQU  23 PIS  25 TAU  26 CAN  25 LEO  
27 GEM  28 LEO  27 LEO  28 LIB  27 SCO  26 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  28 LEO  27 VIR  
29 CAN          29 VIR  30 SCO  30 SAG  29 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  30 VIR  29 LIB  
31 LEO          31 LIB                          31 PIS          30 GEM  31 LEO                  

2027
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 SCO   2 CAP   1 CAP   3 PIS   2 ARI   1 TAU   1 GEM   1 LEO   2 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   2 AQU  
3 SAG   4 AQU   4 AQU   5 ARI   5 TAU   3 GEM   3 CAN   3 VIR   4 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU   4 PIS  
6 CAP   7 PIS   6 PIS   7 TAU   7 GEM   5 CAN   5 LEO   5 LIB   6 SAG   6 CAP   7 PIS   7 ARI  
8 AQU   9 ARI   9 ARI   9 GEM   9 CAN   7 LEO   7 VIR   7 SCO   8 CAP   8 AQU   9 ARI   9 TAU  

11 PIS  12 TAU  11 TAU  12 CAN  11 LEO   9 VIR   9 LIB  10 SAG  11 AQU  11 PIS  12 TAU  11 GEM  
13 ARI  14 GEM  13 GEM  14 LEO  13 VIR  11 LIB  11 SCO  12 CAP  13 PIS  13 ARI  14 GEM  14 CAN  
15 TAU  16 CAN  15 CAN  16 VIR  15 LIB  14 SCO  13 SAG  15 AQU  16 ARI  15 TAU  16 CAN  16 LEO  
18 GEM  18 LEO  17 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  16 SAG  16 CAP  17 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  18 LEO  18 VIR  
20 CAN  20 VIR  20 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  19 CAP  18 AQU  20 ARI  21 GEM  20 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  
22 LEO  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  21 AQU  21 PIS  22 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  
24 VIR  24 SCO  24 SCO  25 CAP  25 AQU  24 PIS  23 ARI  24 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  
26 LIB  27 SAG  26 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  26 ARI  26 TAU  26 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  27 CAP  
28 SCO          29 CAP  30 PIS  30 ARI  28 TAU  28 GEM  28 LEO  29 LIB  28 SCO  29 CAP  29 AQU  
30 SAG          31 AQU                          30 CAN  30 VIR          31 SAG                  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 6 1



2028
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 PIS   2 TAU   3 GEM   1 CAN   1 LEO   1 LIB   3 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI   1 TAU   1 GEM  
3 ARI   4 GEM   5 CAN   3 LEO   3 VIR   3 SCO   5 CAP   4 AQU   5 ARI   5 TAU   3 GEM   3 CAN  
6 TAU   6 CAN   7 LEO   5 VIR   5 LIB   5 SAG   7 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   7 GEM   6 CAN   5 LEO  
8 GEM   9 LEO   9 VIR   7 LIB   7 SCO   8 CAP  10 PIS   9 ARI  10 GEM   9 CAN   8 LEO   7 VIR  

10 CAN  10 VIR  11 LIB   9 SCO   9 SAG  10 AQU  12 ARI  11 TAU  12 CAN  12 LEO  10 VIR   9 LIB  
12 LEO  12 LIB  13 SCO  12 SAG  11 CAP  12 PIS  15 TAU  13 GEM  14 LEO  14 VIR  12 LIB  11 SCO  
14 VIR  15 SCO  15 SAG  14 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  17 GEM  16 CAN  16 VIR  16 LIB  14 SCO  14 SAG  
16 LIB  17 SAG  17 CAP  16 AQU  16 PIS  17 TAU  19 CAN  18 LEO  18 LIB  18 SCO  16 SAG  16 CAP  
18 SCO  19 CAP  20 AQU  19 PIS  19 ARI  20 GEM  21 LEO  20 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  18 CAP  18 AQU  
21 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  21 ARI  21 TAU  22 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  21 AQU  20 PIS  
23 CAP  24 PIS  25 ARI  24 TAU  23 GEM  24 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  23 PIS  23 ARI  
25 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  26 GEM  26 CAN  26 VIR  28 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  26 ARI  25 TAU  
28 PIS  29 TAU  30 GEM  28 CAN  28 LEO  28 LIB  30 SAG  28 CAP  30 PIS  29 ARI  28 TAU  28 GEM  
30 ARI                          30 VIR  30 SCO          31 AQU                          30 CAN  

2029
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 LEO   2 LIB   1 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO   3 LIB   2 SCO  
4 VIR   4 SCO   3 SCO   4 CAP   4 AQU   5 ARI   5 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   4 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG  
6 LIB   6 SAG   5 SAG   6 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   7 GEM   6 CAN   7 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP  
8 SCO   8 CAP   8 CAP   9 PIS   8 ARI  10 GEM   9 CAN   8 LEO   9 LIB   8 SCO   9 CAP   8 AQU  

10 SAG  11 AQU  10 AQU  11 ARI  11 TAU  12 CAN  12 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO  10 SAG  11 AQU  10 PIS  
12 CAP  13 PIS  12 PIS  14 TAU  13 GEM  14 LEO  14 VIR  12 LIB  13 SAG  12 CAP  13 PIS  13 ARI  
14 AQU  16 ARI  15 ARI  16 GEM  16 CAN  17 VIR  16 LIB  14 SCO  15 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  15 TAU  
17 PIS  18 TAU  17 TAU  19 CAN  18 LEO  19 LIB  18 SCO  16 SAG  17 AQU  17 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  
19 ARI  21 GEM  20 GEM  21 LEO  20 VIR  21 SCO  20 SAG  19 CAP  20 PIS  19 ARI  21 GEM  20 CAN  
22 TAU  23 CAN  22 CAN  23 VIR  23 LIB  23 SAG  22 CAP  21 AQU  22 ARI  22 TAU  23 CAN  23 LEO  
24 GEM  25 LEO  25 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  25 CAP  25 AQU  23 PIS  24 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  25 VIR  
27 CAN  27 VIR  27 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  28 VIR  27 LIB  
29 LEO          29 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  30 PIS  29 ARI  28 TAU  30 CAN  29 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  
31 VIR          31 SCO          31 AQU                  31 GEM          31 VIR          31 SAG  

2030
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 CAP   1 AQU   3 PIS   1 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO   1 VIR   1 SCO   1 SAG   1 AQU   1 PIS  
5 AQU   3 PIS   5 ARI   4 TAU   3 GEM   5 LEO   4 VIR   3 LIB   3 SAG   3 CAP   3 PIS   3 ARI  
7 PIS   5 ARI   7 TAU   6 GEM   6 CAN   7 VIR   7 LIB   5 SCO   5 CAP   5 AQU   6 ARI   5 TAU  
9 ARI   8 TAU  10 GEM   9 CAN   8 LEO   9 LIB   9 SCO   7 SAG   8 AQU   7 PIS   8 TAU   8 GEM  

12 TAU  10 GEM  12 CAN  11 LEO  11 VIR  11 SCO  11 SAG   9 CAP  10 PIS   9 ARI  10 GEM  10 CAN  
14 GEM  13 CAN  15 LEO  13 VIR  13 LIB  13 SAG  13 CAP  11 AQU  12 ARI  12 TAU  13 CAN  13 LEO  
17 CAN  15 LEO  17 VIR  16 LIB  15 SCO  15 CAP  15 AQU  13 PIS  14 TAU  14 GEM  16 LEO  15 VIR  
19 LEO  18 VIR  19 LIB  18 SCO  17 SAG  17 AQU  17 PIS  16 ARI  17 GEM  17 CAN  18 VIR  18 LIB  
21 VIR  20 LIB  21 SCO  20 SAG  19 CAP  20 PIS  19 ARI  18 TAU  19 CAN  19 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  
23 LIB  22 SCO  23 SAG  22 CAP  21 AQU  22 ARI  22 TAU  21 GEM  22 LEO  22 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  
26 SCO  24 SAG  25 CAP  24 AQU  23 PIS  24 TAU  24 GEM  23 CAN  24 VIR  24 LIB  24 SAG  24 CAP  
28 SAG  26 CAP  27 AQU  26 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  25 LEO  26 LIB  26 SCO  26 CAP  26 AQU  
30 CAP  28 AQU  30 PIS  28 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  28 VIR  28 SCO  28 SAG  28 AQU  28 PIS  

31 GEM                  30 LIB          30 CAP          30 ARI  

2031
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 TAU   3 CAN   2 CAN   1 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   2 ARI   2 TAU   3 CAN   3 LEO  
4 GEM   5 LEO   5 LEO   3 VIR   3 LIB   4 SAG   3 CAP   4 PIS   4 TAU   4 GEM   5 LEO   5 VIR  
7 CAN   8 VIR   7 VIR   6 LIB   5 SCO   6 CAP   5 AQU   6 ARI   7 GEM   6 CAN   8 VIR   8 LIB  
9 LEO  10 LIB   9 LIB   8 SCO   7 SAG   8 AQU   7 PIS   8 TAU   9 CAN   9 LEO  10 LIB  10 SCO  

11 VIR  12 SCO  12 SCO  10 SAG   9 CAP  10 PIS   9 ARI  10 GEM  12 LEO  12 VIR  13 SCO  12 SAG  
14 LIB  15 SAG  14 SAG  12 CAP  11 AQU  12 ARI  12 TAU  13 CAN  14 VIR  14 LIB  15 SAG  14 CAP  
16 SCO  17 CAP  16 CAP  14 AQU  14 PIS  14 TAU  14 GEM  15 LEO  17 LIB  16 SCO  17 CAP  16 AQU  
18 SAG  19 AQU  18 AQU  16 PIS  16 ARI  17 GEM  17 CAN  18 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  19 AQU  18 PIS  
20 CAP  21 PIS  20 PIS  19 ARI  18 TAU  19 CAN  19 LEO  20 LIB  21 SAG  21 CAP  21 PIS  20 ARI  
22 AQU  23 ARI  22 ARI  21 TAU  21 GEM  22 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  23 CAP  23 AQU  23 ARI  23 TAU  
24 PIS  25 TAU  25 TAU  23 GEM  23 CAN  24 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  25 AQU  25 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  
26 ARI  28 GEM  27 GEM  26 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  28 GEM  27 CAN  
29 TAU          29 CAN  28 LEO  28 VIR  29 SCO  29 SAG  29 AQU  30 ARI  29 TAU  30 CAN  30 LEO  
31 GEM                          31 LIB          31 CAP  31 PIS          31 GEM                  

4 6 2 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



2032
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 VIR   3 SCO   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO   3 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG  
4 LIB   5 SAG   3 SAG   4 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   3 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG   4 CAP  
6 SCO   7 CAP   5 CAP   6 PIS   5 ARI   6 GEM   6 CAN   7 VIR   6 LIB   8 SAG   6 CAP   6 AQU  
9 SAG   9 AQU   8 AQU   8 ARI   7 TAU   8 CAN   8 LEO   9 LIB   8 SCO  10 CAP   8 AQU   8 PIS  

11 CAP  11 PIS  10 PIS  10 TAU  10 GEM  11 LEO  11 VIR  12 SCO  11 SAG  12 AQU  11 PIS  10 ARI  
13 AQU  13 ARI  12 ARI  12 GEM  12 CAN  13 VIR  13 LIB  14 SAG  13 CAP  14 PIS  13 ARI  12 TAU  
15 PIS  15 TAU  14 TAU  15 CAN  14 LEO  16 LIB  16 SCO  16 CAP  15 AQU  16 ARI  15 TAU  14 GEM  
17 ARI  18 GEM  16 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  18 SAG  18 AQU  17 PIS  18 TAU  17 GEM  17 CAN  
19 TAU  20 CAN  18 CAN  20 VIR  19 LIB  20 SAG  20 CAP  20 PIS  19 ARI  20 GEM  19 CAN  19 LEO  
21 GEM  22 LEO  21 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  22 ARI  21 TAU  23 CAN  21 LEO  21 VIR  
24 CAN  25 VIR  23 VIR  24 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  23 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  24 LIB  
26 LEO  27 LIB  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  25 CAN  28 VIR  27 LIB  26 SCO  
29 VIR          28 SCO  29 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  28 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  29 SAG  
31 LIB          30 SAG          30 PIS          30 GEM          30 VIR                  31 CAP  

2033
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 AQU   2 ARI   2 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   3 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   3 AQU   1 PIS   1 ARI  
4 PIS   5 TAU   4 TAU   5 CAN   4 LEO   3 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG   3 CAP   5 PIS   3 ARI   3 TAU  
6 ARI   7 GEM   6 GEM   7 LEO   7 VIR   6 LIB   8 SAG   7 CAP   5 AQU   7 ARI   5 TAU   5 GEM  
8 TAU   9 CAN   8 CAN   9 VIR   9 LIB   8 SCO  10 CAP   9 AQU   7 PIS   9 TAU   7 GEM   7 CAN  

11 GEM  11 LEO  11 LEO  12 LIB  12 SCO  11 SAG  12 AQU  11 PIS   9 ARI  11 GEM   9 CAN   9 LEO  
13 CAN  14 VIR  13 VIR  15 SCO  14 SAG  13 CAP  14 PIS  13 ARI  11 TAU  13 CAN  11 LEO  11 VIR  
15 LEO  16 LIB  16 LIB  17 SAG  17 CAP  15 AQU  17 ARI  15 TAU  13 GEM  15 LEO  14 VIR  14 LIB  
18 VIR  19 SCO  18 SCO  19 CAP  19 AQU  17 PIS  19 TAU  17 GEM  16 CAN  18 VIR  16 LIB  16 SCO  
20 LIB  21 SAG  21 SAG  22 AQU  21 PIS  19 ARI  21 GEM  19 CAN  18 LEO  20 LIB  19 SCO  19 SAG  
23 SCO  24 CAP  23 CAP  24 PIS  23 ARI  21 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  20 VIR  23 SCO  21 SAG  21 CAP  
25 SAG  26 AQU  25 AQU  26 ARI  25 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  23 LIB  25 SAG  24 CAP  23 AQU  
27 CAP  28 PIS  27 PIS  28 TAU  27 GEM  26 CAN  28 VIR  27 LIB  25 SCO  28 CAP  26 AQU  26 PIS  
29 AQU          29 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  28 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  28 SAG  30 AQU  28 PIS  28 ARI  
31 PIS          31 TAU                  30 VIR                  30 CAP                  30 TAU  

2034
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 GEM   2 LEO   1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO   3 CAP   3 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR  
3 CAN   4 VIR   3 VIR   4 SCO   4 SAG   5 AQU   5 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   3 CAN   4 VIR   4 LIB  
5 LEO   6 LIB   6 LIB   7 SAG   7 CAP   8 PIS   7 ARI   6 TAU   6 CAN   5 LEO   6 LIB   6 SCO  
8 VIR   9 SCO   8 SCO   9 CAP   9 AQU  10 ARI   9 TAU   8 GEM   8 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO   9 SAG  

10 LIB  11 SAG  11 SAG  12 AQU  11 PIS  12 TAU  11 GEM  10 CAN  10 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG  11 CAP  
12 SCO  14 CAP  13 CAP  14 PIS  14 ARI  14 GEM  13 CAN  12 LEO  13 LIB  13 SCO  14 CAP  14 AQU  
15 SAG  16 AQU  15 AQU  16 ARI  16 TAU  16 CAN  16 LEO  14 VIR  15 SCO  15 SAG  16 AQU  16 PIS  
17 CAP  18 PIS  18 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  18 LEO  18 VIR  16 LIB  18 SAG  18 CAP  19 PIS  18 ARI  
20 AQU  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  19 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  
22 PIS  22 TAU  22 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  23 LIB  23 SCO  21 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  
24 ARI  24 GEM  24 GEM  24 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  25 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  25 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  
26 TAU  27 CAN  26 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  28 SAG  28 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  27 CAN  26 LEO  
28 GEM          28 LEO  29 LIB  29 SCO  30 CAP  30 AQU  29 PIS  29 TAU  29 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  
30 CAN          30 VIR          31 SAG                  31 ARI          31 CAN          31 LIB  

2035
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 SCO   1 SAG   3 CAP   2 AQU   2 PIS   2 TAU   2 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP  
5 SAG   4 CAP   5 AQU   4 PIS   4 ARI   4 GEM   4 CAN   4 VIR   3 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP   4 AQU  
7 CAP   6 AQU   8 PIS   6 ARI   6 TAU   6 CAN   6 LEO   6 LIB   5 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU   6 PIS  

10 AQU   8 PIS  10 ARI   9 TAU   8 GEM   8 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO   8 SAG  10 AQU   9 PIS   8 ARI  
12 PIS  11 ARI  12 TAU  11 GEM  10 CAN  10 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG  10 CAP  12 PIS  11 ARI  11 TAU  
15 ARI  13 TAU  14 GEM  13 CAN  12 LEO  13 LIB  12 SCO  14 CAP  13 AQU  15 ARI  13 TAU  13 GEM  
17 TAU  15 GEM  16 CAN  15 LEO  14 VIR  15 SCO  15 SAG  16 AQU  15 PIS  17 TAU  15 GEM  15 CAN  
19 GEM  17 CAN  19 LEO  17 VIR  17 LIB  18 SAG  17 CAP  19 PIS  17 ARI  19 GEM  17 CAN  17 LEO  
21 CAN  19 LEO  21 VIR  19 LIB  19 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  21 CAN  19 LEO  19 VIR  
23 LEO  21 VIR  23 LIB  22 SCO  21 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  22 VIR  21 LIB  
25 VIR  24 LIB  25 SCO  24 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  25 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  23 SCO  
27 LIB  26 SCO  28 SAG  27 CAP  26 AQU  28 ARI  27 TAU  28 CAN  26 LEO  28 LIB  26 SCO  26 SAG  
30 SCO  28 SAG  30 CAP  29 AQU  29 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  30 LEO  28 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  28 CAP  

31 ARI          31 CAN          30 LIB                  31 AQU  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 6 3



2036
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 PIS   1 ARI   2 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO   3 CAP   1 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   2 GEM  
5 ARI   3 TAU   4 GEM   4 LEO   4 VIR   4 SCO   4 SAG   5 AQU   4 PIS   4 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN  
7 TAU   6 GEM   6 CAN   6 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP   8 PIS   6 ARI   6 TAU   7 CAN   6 LEO  
9 GEM   8 CAN   8 LEO   9 LIB   8 SCO   9 CAP   9 AQU  10 ARI   9 TAU   8 GEM   9 LEO   8 VIR  

11 CAN  10 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO  10 SAG  12 AQU  11 PIS  13 TAU  11 GEM  11 CAN  11 VIR  10 LIB  
13 LEO  12 VIR  12 LIB  13 SAG  13 CAP  14 PIS  14 ARI  15 GEM  13 CAN  13 LEO  13 LIB  13 SCO  
15 VIR  14 LIB  14 SCO  15 CAP  15 AQU  17 ARI  16 TAU  17 CAN  15 LEO  15 VIR  15 SCO  15 SAG  
17 LIB  16 SCO  17 SAG  18 AQU  18 PIS  19 TAU  19 GEM  19 LEO  18 VIR  17 LIB  18 SAG  17 CAP  
20 SCO  18 SAG  19 CAP  20 PIS  20 ARI  21 GEM  21 CAN  21 VIR  20 LIB  19 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  
22 SAG  21 CAP  22 AQU  23 ARI  23 TAU  23 CAN  23 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  21 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  
25 CAP  23 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  25 LEO  25 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  25 ARI  
27 AQU  26 PIS  27 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  
30 PIS  28 ARI  29 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  29 LIB  29 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  29 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  

31 GEM          31 VIR          31 SAG                  31 ARI                  

2037
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 CAN   1 VIR   1 VIR   1 SCO   3 CAP   1 AQU   1 PIS   3 TAU   1 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   1 LIB  
3 LEO   3 LIB   3 LIB   3 SAG   5 AQU   4 PIS   4 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB   3 SCO  
5 VIR   5 SCO   5 SCO   5 CAP   8 PIS   6 ARI   6 TAU   7 CAN   6 LEO   5 VIR   6 SCO   5 SAG  
7 LIB   7 SAG   7 SAG   8 AQU  10 ARI   9 TAU   9 GEM   9 LEO   8 VIR   7 LIB   8 SAG   7 CAP  
9 SCO  10 CAP   9 CAP  10 PIS  13 TAU  11 GEM  11 CAN  11 VIR  10 LIB   9 SCO  10 CAP  10 AQU  

11 SAG  12 AQU  11 AQU  13 ARI  15 GEM  14 CAN  13 LEO  13 LIB  12 SCO  11 SAG  12 AQU  12 PIS  
14 CAP  15 PIS  14 PIS  15 TAU  17 CAN  16 LEO  15 VIR  16 SCO  14 SAG  14 CAP  15 PIS  14 ARI  
16 AQU  17 ARI  17 ARI  18 GEM  19 LEO  18 VIR  17 LIB  18 SAG  16 CAP  16 AQU  17 ARI  17 TAU  
18 PIS  20 TAU  19 TAU  20 CAN  22 VIR  20 LIB  19 SCO  20 CAP  19 AQU  18 PIS  20 TAU  19 GEM  
21 ARI  22 GEM  21 GEM  22 LEO  24 LIB  22 SCO  21 SAG  22 AQU  21 PIS  21 ARI  22 GEM  22 CAN  
24 TAU  24 CAN  24 CAN  24 VIR  26 SCO  24 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  23 TAU  24 CAN  24 LEO  
26 GEM  27 LEO  26 LEO  26 LIB  28 SAG  26 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  26 VIR  
28 CAN          28 VIR  28 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  29 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  28 CAN  29 VIR  28 LIB  
30 LEO          30 LIB  30 SAG                  31 ARI                  31 LEO          30 SCO  

2038
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 SAG   2 AQU   2 AQU   3 ARI   3 TAU   1 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS  
4 CAP   5 PIS   4 PIS   5 TAU   5 GEM   4 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB   4 SAG   4 CAP   5 PIS   4 ARI  
6 AQU   7 ARI   6 ARI   8 GEM   7 CAN   6 LEO   6 VIR   6 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   7 TAU  
8 PIS  10 TAU   9 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO   8 VIR   8 LIB   8 SAG   9 AQU   8 PIS  10 TAU   9 GEM  

11 ARI  12 GEM  12 GEM  13 LEO  12 VIR  10 LIB  10 SCO  10 CAP  11 PIS  11 ARI  12 GEM  12 CAN  
13 TAU  15 CAN  14 CAN  15 VIR  14 LIB  13 SCO  12 SAG  13 AQU  14 ARI  13 TAU  15 CAN  14 LEO  
16 GEM  17 LEO  16 LEO  17 LIB  16 SCO  15 SAG  14 CAP  15 PIS  16 TAU  16 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  
18 CAN  19 VIR  18 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  17 CAP  16 AQU  17 ARI  19 GEM  18 CAN  19 VIR  19 LIB  
20 LEO  21 LIB  20 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  19 AQU  19 PIS  20 TAU  21 CAN  21 LEO  22 LIB  21 SCO  
22 VIR  23 SCO  22 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  21 PIS  21 ARI  22 GEM  23 LEO  23 VIR  24 SCO  23 SAG  
25 LIB  25 SAG  24 SAG  25 AQU  25 PIS  24 ARI  23 TAU  25 CAN  26 VIR  25 LIB  26 SAG  25 CAP  
27 SCO  27 CAP  26 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  26 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  28 LIB  27 SCO  28 CAP  27 AQU  
29 SAG          29 AQU  30 ARI  30 TAU  29 GEM  28 CAN  29 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  29 PIS  
31 CAP          31 PIS                          31 LEO  31 LIB          31 CAP                  

2039
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 ARI   2 GEM   1 GEM   3 LEO   2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   1 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN  
3 TAU   5 CAN   4 CAN   5 VIR   5 LIB   3 SCO   4 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   3 TAU   5 CAN   4 LEO  
6 GEM   7 LEO   6 LEO   7 LIB   7 SCO   5 SAG   6 AQU   5 PIS   6 TAU   6 GEM   7 LEO   7 VIR  
8 CAN   9 VIR   9 VIR   9 SCO   9 SAG   7 CAP   9 PIS   7 ARI   8 GEM   8 CAN  10 VIR   9 LIB  

11 LEO  11 LIB  11 LIB  11 SAG  11 CAP   9 AQU  11 ARI  10 TAU  11 CAN  11 LEO  12 LIB  11 SCO  
13 VIR  13 SCO  13 SCO  13 CAP  13 AQU  11 PIS  13 TAU  12 GEM  13 LEO  13 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  
15 LIB  16 SAG  15 SAG  15 AQU  15 PIS  13 ARI  16 GEM  15 CAN  16 VIR  15 LIB  16 SAG  15 CAP  
17 SCO  18 CAP  17 CAP  18 PIS  17 ARI  16 TAU  18 CAN  17 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  18 CAP  17 AQU  
19 SAG  20 AQU  19 AQU  20 ARI  20 TAU  18 GEM  21 LEO  19 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  20 AQU  19 PIS  
21 CAP  22 PIS  21 PIS  22 TAU  22 GEM  21 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  
24 AQU  24 ARI  24 ARI  25 GEM  25 CAN  23 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  24 CAP  24 AQU  24 ARI  24 TAU  
26 PIS  27 TAU  26 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  26 VIR  28 SCO  26 SAG  26 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 GEM  
28 ARI          29 GEM  30 LEO  30 VIR  28 LIB  30 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  28 ARI  29 GEM  29 CAN  
30 TAU          31 CAN                  30 SCO          30 AQU          31 TAU                  

4 6 4 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



2040
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   2 VIR   1 LIB   1 SCO  
3 VIR   4 SCO   4 SAG   3 CAP   4 PIS   3 ARI   5 GEM   3 CAN   5 VIR   4 LIB   3 SCO   3 SAG  
5 LIB   6 SAG   7 CAP   5 AQU   6 ARI   5 TAU   7 CAN   6 LEO   7 LIB   7 SCO   5 SAG   5 CAP  
8 SCO   8 CAP   9 AQU   7 PIS   9 TAU   7 GEM  10 LEO   8 VIR  10 SCO   9 SAG   7 CAP   7 AQU  

10 SAG  10 AQU  11 PIS   9 ARI  11 GEM  10 CAN  12 VIR  11 LIB  12 SAG  11 CAP  10 AQU   9 PIS  
12 CAP  12 PIS  13 ARI  11 TAU  14 CAN  12 LEO  15 LIB  13 SCO  14 CAP  13 AQU  12 PIS  11 ARI  
14 AQU  14 ARI  15 TAU  14 GEM  16 LEO  15 VIR  17 SCO  16 SAG  16 AQU  15 PIS  14 ARI  13 TAU  
16 PIS  17 TAU  17 GEM  16 CAN  19 VIR  17 LIB  19 SAG  18 CAP  18 PIS  18 ARI  16 TAU  16 GEM  
18 ARI  19 GEM  20 CAN  19 LEO  21 LIB  20 SCO  21 CAP  20 AQU  20 ARI  20 TAU  18 GEM  18 CAN  
20 TAU  22 CAN  23 LEO  21 VIR  23 SCO  22 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  22 TAU  22 GEM  21 CAN  21 LEO  
23 GEM  24 LEO  25 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  23 LEO  23 VIR  
25 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  26 VIR  26 LIB  
28 LEO  29 LIB  30 SCO  28 SAG  29 AQU  28 PIS  30 TAU  28 GEM  30 LEO  29 VIR  28 LIB  28 SCO  
30 VIR                  30 CAP          30 ARI          31 CAN                          30 SAG  

2041
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 CAP   2 PIS   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   2 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI  
3 AQU   4 ARI   3 ARI   4 GEM   4 CAN   5 VIR   5 LIB   3 SCO   4 CAP   4 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU  
5 PIS   6 TAU   5 TAU   6 CAN   6 LEO   7 LIB   7 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   6 PIS   6 TAU   6 GEM  
7 ARI   8 GEM   7 GEM   9 LEO   8 VIR  10 SCO   9 SAG   8 CAP   9 PIS   8 ARI   8 GEM   8 CAN  

10 TAU  11 CAN  10 CAN  11 VIR  11 LIB  12 SAG  12 CAP  10 AQU  10 ARI  10 TAU  11 CAN  10 LEO  
12 GEM  13 LEO  12 LEO  14 LIB  13 SCO  14 CAP  14 AQU  12 PIS  12 TAU  12 GEM  13 LEO  13 VIR  
14 CAN  16 VIR  15 VIR  16 SCO  16 SAG  16 AQU  16 PIS  14 ARI  15 GEM  14 CAN  15 VIR  15 LIB  
17 LEO  18 LIB  17 LIB  18 SAG  18 CAP  18 PIS  18 ARI  16 TAU  17 CAN  17 LEO  18 LIB  18 SCO  
19 VIR  21 SCO  20 SCO  21 CAP  20 AQU  20 ARI  20 TAU  18 GEM  19 LEO  19 VIR  21 SCO  20 SAG  
22 LIB  23 SAG  22 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  21 CAN  22 VIR  22 LIB  23 SAG  22 CAP  
24 SCO  25 CAP  24 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  23 LEO  24 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  25 AQU  
27 SAG  27 AQU  26 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  
29 CAP          29 PIS  29 TAU  29 GEM  30 LEO  29 VIR  28 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  
31 AQU          31 ARI          31 CAN                  31 SCO          31 AQU          31 TAU  

2042
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 GEM   1 CAN   2 LEO   1 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   2 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   1 CAN   3 VIR  
4 CAN   3 LEO   5 VIR   4 LIB   3 SCO   4 CAP   4 AQU   5 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   3 LEO   5 LIB  
7 LEO   5 VIR   7 LIB   6 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   5 GEM   7 LEO   5 VIR   8 SCO  
9 VIR   8 LIB  10 SCO   9 SAG   8 CAP   9 PIS   8 ARI   9 GEM   7 CAN   9 VIR   8 LIB  10 SAG  

12 LIB  11 SCO  12 SAG  11 CAP  10 AQU  11 ARI  10 TAU  11 CAN   9 LEO  12 LIB  10 SCO  13 CAP  
14 SCO  13 SAG  15 CAP  13 AQU  13 PIS  13 TAU  13 GEM  13 LEO  12 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  15 AQU  
17 SAG  15 CAP  17 AQU  15 PIS  15 ARI  15 GEM  15 CAN  16 VIR  14 LIB  17 SAG  15 CAP  17 PIS  
19 CAP  17 AQU  19 PIS  17 ARI  17 TAU  17 CAN  17 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  19 CAP  18 AQU  19 ARI  
21 AQU  19 PIS  21 ARI  19 TAU  19 GEM  20 LEO  19 VIR  21 SCO  19 SAG  22 AQU  20 PIS  22 TAU  
23 PIS  21 ARI  23 TAU  21 GEM  21 CAN  22 VIR  22 LIB  23 SAG  22 CAP  24 PIS  22 ARI  24 GEM  
25 ARI  24 TAU  25 GEM  24 CAN  23 LEO  24 LIB  24 SCO  26 CAP  24 AQU  26 ARI  24 TAU  26 CAN  
27 TAU  26 GEM  27 CAN  26 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  28 AQU  26 PIS  28 TAU  26 GEM  28 LEO  
29 GEM  28 CAN  30 LEO  28 VIR  28 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  30 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  

31 SCO          31 AQU          30 TAU          30 LEO          

2043
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 LIB   3 SAG   2 SAG   1 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   1 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB   3 SAG   3 CAP  
4 SCO   5 CAP   5 CAP   3 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   3 GEM   3 LEO   4 LIB   4 SCO   5 CAP   5 AQU  
7 SAG   8 AQU   7 AQU   6 PIS   5 ARI   6 GEM   5 CAN   6 VIR   7 SCO   7 SAG   8 AQU   8 PIS  
9 CAP  10 PIS   9 PIS   8 ARI   7 TAU   8 CAN   7 LEO   8 LIB   9 SAG   9 CAP  10 PIS  10 ARI  

11 AQU  12 ARI  11 ARI  10 TAU   9 GEM  10 LEO   9 VIR  10 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  13 ARI  12 TAU  
13 PIS  14 TAU  13 TAU  12 GEM  11 CAN  12 VIR  12 LIB  13 SAG  14 AQU  14 PIS  15 TAU  14 GEM  
16 ARI  16 GEM  15 GEM  14 CAN  13 LEO  14 LIB  14 SCO  15 CAP  16 PIS  16 ARI  17 GEM  16 CAN  
18 TAU  18 CAN  18 CAN  16 LEO  16 VIR  17 SCO  17 SAG  18 AQU  19 ARI  18 TAU  19 CAN  18 LEO  
20 GEM  21 LEO  20 LEO  18 VIR  18 LIB  19 SAG  19 CAP  20 PIS  21 TAU  20 GEM  21 LEO  20 VIR  
22 CAN  23 VIR  22 VIR  21 LIB  21 SCO  22 CAP  21 AQU  22 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  
24 LEO  25 LIB  24 LIB  23 SCO  23 SAG  24 AQU  24 PIS  24 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  
26 VIR  28 SCO  27 SCO  26 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  28 SCO  27 SAG  
29 LIB          30 SAG  28 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  29 VIR  29 LIB  30 SAG  30 CAP  
31 SCO                          30 PIS          30 GEM  31 LEO          31 SCO                  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 6 5



2044
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 AQU   2 ARI   1 ARI   1 GEM   1 CAN   1 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   3 PIS   2 ARI   1 TAU  
4 PIS   5 TAU   3 TAU   3 CAN   3 LEO   3 LIB   3 SCO   4 CAP   3 AQU   5 ARI   4 TAU   3 GEM  
6 ARI   7 GEM   5 GEM   5 LEO   5 VIR   6 SCO   5 SAG   7 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   6 GEM   5 CAN  
8 TAU   9 CAN   7 CAN   8 VIR   7 LIB   8 SAG   8 CAP   9 PIS   8 ARI  10 GEM   8 CAN   7 LEO  

10 GEM  11 LEO   9 LEO  10 LIB  10 SCO  11 CAP  11 AQU  12 ARI  10 TAU  12 CAN  10 LEO   9 VIR  
12 CAN  13 VIR  11 VIR  12 SCO  12 SAG  13 AQU  13 PIS  14 TAU  12 GEM  14 LEO  12 VIR  12 LIB  
14 LEO  15 LIB  14 LIB  15 SAG  14 CAP  16 PIS  15 ARI  16 GEM  14 CAN  16 VIR  14 LIB  14 SCO  
17 VIR  18 SCO  16 SCO  17 CAP  17 AQU  18 ARI  18 TAU  18 CAN  17 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  16 SAG  
19 LIB  20 SAG  18 SAG  20 AQU  19 PIS  20 TAU  20 GEM  20 LEO  19 VIR  20 SCO  19 SAG  19 CAP  
21 SCO  23 CAP  21 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  22 GEM  22 CAN  22 VIR  21 LIB  23 SAG  22 CAP  21 AQU  
24 SAG  25 AQU  23 AQU  24 ARI  24 TAU  24 CAN  24 LEO  24 LIB  23 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  24 PIS  
26 CAP  27 PIS  26 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  26 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  25 SAG  28 AQU  27 PIS  26 ARI  
29 AQU          28 ARI  29 GEM  28 CAN  28 VIR  28 LIB  29 SAG  28 CAP  30 PIS  29 ARI  29 TAU  
31 PIS          30 TAU          30 LEO          30 SCO          30 AQU                  31 GEM  

2045
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 CAN   2 VIR   2 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG   1 CAP   3 PIS   2 ARI   3 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB  
4 LEO   4 LIB   4 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP   3 AQU   5 ARI   4 TAU   5 CAN   4 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO  
6 VIR   7 SCO   6 SCO   7 CAP   7 AQU   6 PIS   8 TAU   7 GEM   7 LEO   7 VIR   5 LIB   7 SAG  
8 LIB   9 SAG   8 SAG   9 AQU   9 PIS   8 ARI  10 GEM   9 CAN   9 VIR   9 LIB   7 SCO   9 CAP  

10 SCO  11 CAP  11 CAP  12 PIS  12 ARI  11 TAU  12 CAN  11 LEO  11 LIB  11 SCO   9 SAG  11 AQU  
13 SAG  14 AQU  13 AQU  14 ARI  14 TAU  13 GEM  14 LEO  13 VIR  13 SCO  13 SAG  11 CAP  14 PIS  
15 CAP  16 PIS  16 PIS  17 TAU  16 GEM  15 CAN  16 VIR  15 LIB  15 SAG  15 CAP  14 AQU  16 ARI  
18 AQU  19 ARI  18 ARI  19 GEM  18 CAN  17 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  18 CAP  18 AQU  16 PIS  19 TAU  
20 PIS  21 TAU  20 TAU  21 CAN  21 LEO  19 VIR  20 SCO  19 SAG  20 AQU  20 PIS  19 ARI  21 GEM  
23 ARI  24 GEM  23 GEM  23 LEO  23 VIR  21 LIB  23 SAG  21 CAP  23 PIS  23 ARI  21 TAU  23 CAN  
25 TAU  26 CAN  25 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  23 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  25 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  
27 GEM  28 LEO  27 LEO  28 LIB  27 SCO  26 SAG  28 AQU  26 PIS  28 TAU  27 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  
29 CAN          29 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  28 CAP  30 PIS  29 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  28 LEO  29 LIB  
31 LEO          31 LIB                  30 AQU          31 TAU                  30 VIR          

2046
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 SCO   1 CAP   1 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI   3 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   1 LIB   1 SCO   1 CAP   1 AQU  
3 SAG   4 AQU   3 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU   5 CAN   5 LEO   3 VIR   3 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU   4 PIS  
5 CAP   6 PIS   6 PIS   7 TAU   7 GEM   7 LEO   7 VIR   5 LIB   6 SAG   5 CAP   6 PIS   6 ARI  
8 AQU   9 ARI   8 ARI   9 GEM   9 CAN   9 VIR   9 LIB   7 SCO   8 CAP   7 AQU   9 ARI   9 TAU  

10 PIS  11 TAU  11 TAU  12 CAN  11 LEO  12 LIB  11 SCO   9 SAG  10 AQU  10 PIS  11 TAU  11 GEM  
13 ARI  14 GEM  13 GEM  14 LEO  13 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  12 CAP  13 PIS  12 ARI  14 GEM  13 CAN  
15 TAU  16 CAN  15 CAN  16 VIR  15 LIB  16 SAG  15 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  15 TAU  16 CAN  16 LEO  
17 GEM  18 LEO  18 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  18 CAP  18 AQU  16 PIS  18 TAU  17 GEM  18 LEO  18 VIR  
20 CAN  20 VIR  20 VIR  20 SCO  19 SAG  20 AQU  20 PIS  19 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  21 VIR  20 LIB  
22 LEO  22 LIB  22 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  23 PIS  23 ARI  21 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  
24 VIR  24 SCO  24 SCO  24 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  25 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  
26 LIB  26 SAG  26 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  28 TAU  28 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  
28 SCO          28 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  30 GEM  30 CAN  28 LEO  29 LIB  28 SCO  29 CAP  29 AQU  
30 SAG          30 AQU          31 TAU                  30 VIR          30 SAG          31 PIS  

2047
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 ARI   1 TAU   1 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO   2 CAP   3 PIS   2 ARI   1 TAU   1 GEM  
5 TAU   4 GEM   3 GEM   4 LEO   4 VIR   4 SCO   4 SAG   4 AQU   5 ARI   5 TAU   4 GEM   3 CAN  
7 GEM   6 CAN   6 CAN   6 VIR   6 LIB   6 SAG   6 CAP   6 PIS   8 TAU   7 GEM   6 CAN   6 LEO  

10 CAN   8 LEO   8 LEO   8 LIB   8 SCO   8 CAP   8 AQU   9 ARI  10 GEM  10 CAN   9 LEO   8 VIR  
12 LEO  10 VIR  10 VIR  10 SCO  10 SAG  10 AQU  10 PIS  11 TAU  13 CAN  12 LEO  11 VIR  11 LIB  
14 VIR  13 LIB  12 LIB  12 SAG  12 CAP  13 PIS  12 ARI  14 GEM  15 LEO  15 VIR  13 LIB  13 SCO  
16 LIB  15 SCO  14 SCO  14 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  15 TAU  16 CAN  17 VIR  17 LIB  15 SCO  15 SAG  
18 SCO  17 SAG  16 SAG  17 AQU  16 PIS  18 TAU  17 GEM  19 LEO  19 LIB  19 SCO  17 SAG  17 CAP  
20 SAG  19 CAP  18 CAP  19 PIS  19 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  21 VIR  21 SCO  21 SAG  19 CAP  19 AQU  
23 CAP  21 AQU  20 AQU  22 ARI  21 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  23 LIB  23 SAG  23 CAP  21 AQU  21 PIS  
25 AQU  24 PIS  23 PIS  24 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  25 CAP  25 AQU  23 PIS  23 ARI  
27 PIS  26 ARI  25 ARI  27 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  27 SAG  28 AQU  27 PIS  26 ARI  26 TAU  
30 ARI          28 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  29 LIB  29 SCO  29 CAP  30 PIS  30 ARI  28 TAU  28 GEM  

30 GEM          31 VIR          31 SAG  31 AQU                          31 CAN  

4 6 6 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



2048
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 LEO   1 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   3 GEM   1 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO  
5 VIR   3 LIB   3 SCO   4 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU   5 CAN   4 LEO   4 VIR   4 SCO   4 SAG  
7 LIB   5 SCO   6 SAG   6 AQU   5 PIS   7 TAU   6 GEM   8 LEO   6 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP  
9 SCO   7 SAG   8 CAP   8 PIS   8 ARI   9 GEM   9 CAN  10 VIR   9 LIB   8 SCO   9 CAP   8 AQU  

11 SAG   9 CAP  10 AQU  11 ARI  10 TAU  12 CAN  11 LEO  12 LIB  11 SCO  10 SAG  11 AQU  10 PIS  
13 CAP  12 AQU  12 PIS  13 TAU  13 GEM  14 LEO  14 VIR  15 SCO  13 SAG  12 CAP  13 PIS  12 ARI  
15 AQU  14 PIS  14 ARI  16 GEM  15 CAN  17 VIR  16 LIB  17 SAG  15 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  15 TAU  
17 PIS  16 ARI  17 TAU  18 CAN  18 LEO  19 LIB  18 SCO  19 CAP  17 AQU  17 PIS  17 TAU  17 GEM  
20 ARI  18 TAU  19 GEM  21 LEO  20 VIR  21 SCO  20 SAG  21 AQU  19 PIS  19 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  
22 TAU  21 GEM  22 CAN  23 VIR  23 LIB  23 SAG  22 CAP  23 PIS  22 ARI  21 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  
25 GEM  23 CAN  24 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  25 VIR  
27 CAN  26 LEO  27 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  
29 LEO  28 VIR  29 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  29 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  

31 SCO          31 AQU          31 TAU                  31 VIR          31 SAG  

2049
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 CAP   1 AQU   2 PIS   1 ARI   3 GEM   1 CAN   1 LEO   3 LIB   1 SCO   1 SAG   1 AQU   1 PIS  
4 AQU   3 PIS   4 ARI   3 TAU   5 CAN   4 LEO   4 VIR   5 SCO   3 SAG   3 CAP   3 PIS   3 ARI  
6 PIS   5 ARI   7 TAU   5 GEM   8 LEO   7 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP   5 AQU   5 ARI   5 TAU  
9 ARI   7 TAU   9 GEM   8 CAN  10 VIR   9 LIB   9 SCO   9 CAP   8 AQU   7 PIS   8 TAU   7 GEM  

11 TAU  10 GEM  12 CAN  10 LEO  13 LIB  11 SCO  11 SAG  11 AQU  10 PIS   9 ARI  10 GEM  10 CAN  
13 GEM  12 CAN  14 LEO  13 VIR  15 SCO  13 SAG  13 CAP  13 PIS  12 ARI  11 TAU  12 CAN  12 LEO  
16 CAN  15 LEO  17 VIR  15 LIB  17 SAG  15 CAP  15 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  13 GEM  15 LEO  15 VIR  
18 LEO  17 VIR  19 LIB  17 SCO  19 CAP  17 AQU  17 PIS  17 TAU  16 GEM  16 CAN  17 VIR  17 LIB  
21 VIR  20 LIB  21 SCO  20 SAG  21 AQU  19 PIS  19 ARI  20 GEM  19 CAN  18 LEO  20 LIB  19 SCO  
23 LIB  22 SCO  23 SAG  22 CAP  23 PIS  22 ARI  21 TAU  22 CAN  21 LEO  21 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  
26 SCO  24 SAG  25 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  23 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  23 LIB  24 SAG  24 CAP  
28 SAG  26 CAP  28 AQU  26 PIS  28 TAU  26 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  26 SCO  26 CAP  26 AQU  
30 CAP  28 AQU  30 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  29 LEO  30 LIB  28 SCO  28 SAG  28 AQU  28 PIS  

30 TAU                  31 VIR                  30 CAP          30 ARI  

2050
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 TAU   2 CAN   1 CAN   3 VIR   3 LIB   1 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   2 ARI   2 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO  
3 GEM   5 LEO   4 LEO   5 LIB   5 SCO   4 SAG   3 CAP   4 PIS   4 TAU   4 GEM   5 LEO   4 VIR  
6 CAN   7 VIR   6 VIR   8 SCO   7 SAG   6 CAP   5 AQU   6 ARI   6 GEM   6 CAN   7 VIR   7 LIB  
8 LEO  10 LIB   9 LIB  10 SAG   9 CAP   8 AQU   7 PIS   8 TAU   9 CAN   8 LEO  10 LIB   9 SCO  

11 VIR  12 SCO  11 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  10 PIS   9 ARI  10 GEM  11 LEO  11 VIR  12 SCO  12 SAG  
13 LIB  14 SAG  14 SAG  14 AQU  14 PIS  12 ARI  11 TAU  12 CAN  13 VIR  13 LIB  14 SAG  14 CAP  
16 SCO  17 CAP  16 CAP  17 PIS  16 ARI  14 TAU  14 GEM  15 LEO  16 LIB  16 SCO  17 CAP  16 AQU  
18 SAG  19 AQU  18 AQU  19 ARI  18 TAU  16 GEM  16 CAN  17 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  19 AQU  18 PIS  
20 CAP  21 PIS  20 PIS  21 TAU  20 GEM  19 CAN  18 LEO  20 LIB  21 SAG  21 CAP  21 PIS  21 ARI  
22 AQU  23 ARI  22 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  21 LEO  21 VIR  22 SCO  23 CAP  23 AQU  23 ARI  23 TAU  
24 PIS  25 TAU  24 TAU  25 CAN  25 LEO  24 VIR  23 LIB  25 SAG  25 AQU  25 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  
26 ARI  27 GEM  26 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  26 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  28 PIS  27 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  
28 TAU          29 CAN  30 VIR  30 LIB  29 SCO  28 SAG  29 AQU  30 ARI  29 TAU  30 CAN  29 LEO  
31 GEM          31 LEO                          31 CAP  31 PIS          31 GEM                  

2051
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SCO   3 CAP   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   3 CAN   1 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG  
3 LIB   5 SAG   4 SAG   5 AQU   4 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   5 LEO   3 VIR   3 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP  
6 SCO   7 CAP   6 CAP   7 PIS   6 ARI   5 TAU   6 CAN   7 VIR   6 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   7 AQU  
8 SAG   9 AQU   8 AQU   9 ARI   8 TAU   7 GEM   9 LEO  10 LIB   8 SCO   8 SAG   9 AQU   9 PIS  

10 CAP  11 PIS  11 PIS  11 TAU  10 GEM   9 CAN  11 VIR  12 SCO  11 SAG  11 CAP  12 PIS  11 ARI  
13 AQU  13 ARI  13 ARI  13 GEM  13 CAN  11 LEO  13 LIB  15 SAG  13 CAP  13 AQU  14 ARI  13 TAU  
15 PIS  15 TAU  15 TAU  15 CAN  15 LEO  13 VIR  16 SCO  17 CAP  16 AQU  15 PIS  16 TAU  15 GEM  
17 ARI  17 GEM  17 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  16 LIB  18 SAG  19 AQU  18 PIS  17 ARI  18 GEM  17 CAN  
19 TAU  20 CAN  19 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  18 SCO  21 CAP  21 PIS  20 ARI  19 TAU  20 CAN  19 LEO  
21 GEM  22 LEO  21 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  21 SAG  23 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  21 GEM  22 LEO  22 VIR  
23 CAN  24 VIR  24 VIR  25 SCO  25 SAG  23 CAP  25 PIS  26 TAU  24 GEM  23 CAN  24 VIR  24 LIB  
26 LEO  27 LIB  26 LIB  27 SAG  27 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  28 GEM  26 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  27 SCO  
28 VIR          29 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  30 CAN  28 LEO  28 VIR  29 SCO  29 SAG  
31 LIB          31 SAG                  30 ARI  31 GEM                  30 LIB                  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 6 7



2052
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 CAP   1 PIS   2 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   2 AQU   1 PIS   3 TAU  
3 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU   4 CAN   4 LEO   5 LIB   5 SCO   3 SAG   5 AQU   4 PIS   3 ARI   5 GEM  
5 PIS   6 TAU   6 GEM   7 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   7 SAG   6 CAP   7 PIS   7 ARI   5 TAU   7 CAN  
7 ARI   8 GEM   8 CAN   9 VIR   9 LIB  10 SAG  10 CAP   8 AQU   9 ARI   9 TAU   7 GEM   9 LEO  
9 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO  11 LIB  11 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  11 PIS  11 TAU  11 GEM   9 CAN  11 VIR  

12 GEM  12 LEO  13 VIR  14 SCO  14 SAG  15 AQU  14 PIS  13 ARI  13 GEM  13 CAN  11 LEO  13 LIB  
14 CAN  14 VIR  15 LIB  16 SAG  16 CAP  17 PIS  17 ARI  15 TAU  16 CAN  15 LEO  13 VIR  15 SCO  
16 LEO  17 LIB  18 SCO  19 CAP  19 AQU  19 ARI  19 TAU  17 GEM  18 LEO  17 VIR  16 LIB  18 SAG  
18 VIR  19 SCO  20 SAG  21 AQU  21 PIS  22 TAU  21 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  18 SCO  20 CAP  
20 LIB  22 SAG  23 CAP  24 PIS  23 ARI  24 GEM  23 CAN  21 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  21 SAG  23 AQU  
23 SCO  24 CAP  25 AQU  26 ARI  25 TAU  26 CAN  25 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  23 CAP  25 PIS  
25 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  28 TAU  27 GEM  28 LEO  27 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  27 CAP  26 AQU  28 ARI  
28 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  30 VIR  30 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  28 PIS  30 TAU  
30 AQU          31 TAU          31 LEO                  31 SAG                  30 ARI          

2053
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 GEM   1 LEO   1 LEO   1 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR  
3 CAN   4 VIR   3 VIR   4 SCO   4 SAG   5 AQU   5 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   3 CAN   4 VIR   3 LIB  
5 LEO   6 LIB   5 LIB   6 SAG   6 CAP   7 PIS   7 ARI   6 TAU   6 CAN   6 LEO   6 LIB   6 SCO  
7 VIR   8 SCO   7 SCO   9 CAP   9 AQU  10 ARI   9 TAU   8 GEM   8 LEO   8 VIR   8 SCO   8 SAG  
9 LIB  11 SAG  10 SAG  11 AQU  11 PIS  12 TAU  11 GEM  10 CAN  10 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG  10 CAP  

12 SCO  13 CAP  12 CAP  14 PIS  13 ARI  14 GEM  13 CAN  12 LEO  12 LIB  12 SCO  13 CAP  13 AQU  
14 SAG  16 AQU  15 AQU  16 ARI  16 TAU  16 CAN  15 LEO  14 VIR  15 SCO  14 SAG  16 AQU  15 PIS  
17 CAP  18 PIS  17 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  18 LEO  17 VIR  16 LIB  17 SAG  17 CAP  18 PIS  18 ARI  
19 AQU  20 ARI  20 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  18 SCO  19 CAP  19 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  
22 PIS  22 TAU  22 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  21 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  
24 ARI  25 GEM  24 GEM  24 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  23 CAP  24 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  
26 TAU  27 CAN  26 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  27 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  26 LEO  
28 GEM          28 LEO  29 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  29 GEM  29 LEO  28 VIR  
30 CAN          30 VIR          31 SAG                  30 ARI          31 CAN          31 LIB  

2054
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 SCO   3 CAP   2 CAP   1 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   2 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SAG   3 AQU  
4 SAG   5 AQU   5 AQU   4 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   4 CAN   4 VIR   3 LIB   4 SAG   3 CAP   5 PIS  
7 CAP   8 PIS   7 PIS   6 ARI   6 TAU   6 CAN   6 LEO   6 LIB   5 SCO   7 CAP   5 AQU   8 ARI  
9 AQU  10 ARI  10 ARI   8 TAU   8 GEM   8 LEO   8 VIR   8 SCO   7 SAG   9 AQU   8 PIS  10 TAU  

12 PIS  13 TAU  12 TAU  11 GEM  10 CAN  11 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG   9 CAP  12 PIS  10 ARI  13 GEM  
14 ARI  15 GEM  14 GEM  13 CAN  12 LEO  13 LIB  12 SCO  13 CAP  12 AQU  14 ARI  13 TAU  15 CAN  
17 TAU  17 CAN  17 CAN  15 LEO  14 VIR  15 SCO  14 SAG  16 AQU  14 PIS  17 TAU  15 GEM  17 LEO  
19 GEM  19 LEO  19 LEO  17 VIR  16 LIB  17 SAG  17 CAP  18 PIS  17 ARI  19 GEM  17 CAN  19 VIR  
21 CAN  21 VIR  21 VIR  19 LIB  19 SCO  20 CAP  19 AQU  21 ARI  19 TAU  21 CAN  20 LEO  21 LIB  
23 LEO  23 LIB  23 LIB  21 SCO  21 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  
25 VIR  25 SCO  25 SCO  24 SAG  23 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  
27 LIB  28 SAG  27 SAG  26 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  28 CAN  26 LEO  28 LIB  26 SCO  28 CAP  
29 SCO          29 CAP  28 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  29 GEM  30 LEO  28 VIR  30 SCO  28 SAG  30 AQU  
31 SAG                          31 ARI          31 CAN          30 LIB          30 CAP          

2055
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 PIS   3 TAU   2 TAU   1 GEM   3 LEO   1 VIR   3 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   1 PIS   3 TAU   3 GEM  
4 ARI   5 GEM   5 GEM   3 CAN   5 VIR   3 LIB   5 SAG   3 CAP   4 PIS   4 ARI   5 GEM   5 CAN  
7 TAU   8 CAN   7 CAN   5 LEO   7 LIB   5 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   7 TAU   8 CAN   7 LEO  
9 GEM  10 LEO   9 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO   7 SAG   9 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   9 GEM  10 LEO  10 VIR  

11 CAN  12 VIR  11 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG  10 CAP  12 PIS  10 ARI  12 GEM  11 CAN  12 VIR  12 LIB  
13 LEO  14 LIB  13 LIB  12 SCO  13 CAP  12 AQU  14 ARI  13 TAU  14 CAN  14 LEO  14 LIB  14 SCO  
15 VIR  16 SCO  15 SCO  14 SAG  16 AQU  14 PIS  17 TAU  15 GEM  16 LEO  16 VIR  16 SCO  16 SAG  
17 LIB  18 SAG  17 SAG  16 CAP  18 PIS  17 ARI  19 GEM  18 CAN  19 VIR  18 LIB  18 SAG  18 CAP  
19 SCO  20 CAP  19 CAP  18 AQU  21 ARI  19 TAU  21 CAN  20 LEO  21 LIB  20 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  
22 SAG  23 AQU  22 AQU  21 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  24 LEO  22 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  
24 CAP  25 PIS  24 PIS  23 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  26 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  25 ARI  
26 AQU  28 ARI  27 ARI  26 TAU  28 CAN  26 LEO  28 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  26 AQU  28 ARI  27 TAU  
29 PIS          29 TAU  28 GEM  30 LEO  28 VIR  30 SCO  28 SAG  29 AQU  29 PIS  30 TAU  30 GEM  
31 ARI                  30 CAN          30 LIB          30 CAP          31 ARI                  

4 6 8 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



2056
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 CAN   2 VIR   3 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   3 LEO   2 VIR   1 LIB  
4 LEO   4 LIB   5 SCO   3 SAG   5 AQU   3 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   3 CAN   5 VIR   4 LIB   3 SCO  
6 VIR   6 SCO   7 SAG   5 CAP   7 PIS   6 ARI   5 TAU   7 CAN   6 LEO   7 LIB   6 SCO   5 SAG  
8 LIB   8 SAG   9 CAP   7 AQU   9 ARI   8 TAU   8 GEM   9 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO   8 SAG   7 CAP  

10 SCO  11 CAP  11 AQU  10 PIS  12 TAU  11 GEM  10 CAN  11 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG  10 CAP   9 AQU  
12 SAG  13 AQU  13 PIS  12 ARI  14 GEM  13 CAN  13 LEO  14 LIB  12 SCO  13 CAP  12 AQU  11 PIS  
14 CAP  15 PIS  16 ARI  15 TAU  17 CAN  16 LEO  15 VIR  16 SCO  14 SAG  16 AQU  14 PIS  14 ARI  
16 AQU  18 ARI  18 TAU  17 GEM  19 LEO  18 VIR  17 LIB  18 SAG  16 CAP  18 PIS  16 ARI  16 TAU  
19 PIS  20 TAU  21 GEM  20 CAN  22 VIR  20 LIB  19 SCO  20 CAP  18 AQU  20 ARI  19 TAU  19 GEM  
21 ARI  23 GEM  23 CAN  22 LEO  24 LIB  22 SCO  22 SAG  22 AQU  21 PIS  23 TAU  21 GEM  21 CAN  
24 TAU  25 CAN  26 LEO  24 VIR  26 SCO  24 SAG  24 CAP  24 PIS  23 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  24 LEO  
26 GEM  27 LEO  28 VIR  26 LIB  28 SAG  26 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  25 TAU  28 CAN  27 LEO  26 VIR  
29 CAN  29 VIR  30 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  28 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  28 GEM  30 LEO  29 VIR  28 LIB  
31 LEO                  30 SAG                  30 ARI          30 CAN                  31 SCO  

2057
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 SAG   2 AQU   1 AQU   2 ARI   2 TAU   1 GEM   3 LEO   2 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS  
4 CAP   4 PIS   4 PIS   5 TAU   4 GEM   3 CAN   5 VIR   4 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP   4 PIS   4 ARI  
6 AQU   6 ARI   6 ARI   7 GEM   7 CAN   6 LEO   8 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   6 TAU  
8 PIS   9 TAU   8 TAU  10 CAN   9 LEO   8 VIR  10 SCO   8 SAG   9 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   9 GEM  

10 ARI  11 GEM  11 GEM  12 LEO  12 VIR  10 LIB  12 SAG  10 CAP  11 PIS  10 ARI  11 GEM  11 CAN  
13 TAU  14 CAN  13 CAN  14 VIR  14 LIB  13 SCO  14 CAP  12 AQU  13 ARI  13 TAU  14 CAN  14 LEO  
15 GEM  16 LEO  16 LEO  17 LIB  16 SCO  15 SAG  16 AQU  15 PIS  15 TAU  15 GEM  16 LEO  16 VIR  
18 CAN  19 VIR  18 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  17 CAP  18 PIS  17 ARI  18 GEM  18 CAN  19 VIR  19 LIB  
20 LEO  21 LIB  20 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  19 AQU  20 ARI  19 TAU  20 CAN  20 LEO  21 LIB  21 SCO  
22 VIR  23 SCO  22 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  21 PIS  23 TAU  21 GEM  23 LEO  23 VIR  24 SCO  23 SAG  
25 LIB  25 SAG  24 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  23 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  26 SAG  25 CAP  
27 SCO  27 CAP  27 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  25 TAU  28 CAN  26 LEO  28 LIB  27 SCO  28 CAP  27 AQU  
29 SAG          29 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  28 GEM  30 LEO  29 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  29 PIS  
31 CAP          31 PIS                  30 CAN          31 LIB          31 CAP          31 ARI  

2058
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
3 TAU   1 GEM   1 GEM   2 LEO   2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   1 PIS   1 ARI   1 GEM   1 CAN  
5 GEM   4 CAN   3 CAN   4 VIR   4 LIB   3 SCO   4 CAP   3 AQU   3 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   4 LEO  
7 CAN   6 LEO   6 LEO   7 LIB   6 SCO   5 SAG   6 AQU   5 PIS   5 TAU   5 GEM   6 LEO   6 VIR  

10 LEO   9 VIR   8 VIR   9 SCO   9 SAG   7 CAP   8 PIS   7 ARI   8 GEM   7 CAN   9 VIR   9 LIB  
13 VIR  11 LIB  10 LIB  11 SAG  11 CAP   9 AQU  11 ARI   9 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO  11 LIB  11 SCO  
15 LIB  14 SCO  13 SCO  13 CAP  13 AQU  11 PIS  13 TAU  11 GEM  13 LEO  12 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  
17 SCO  16 SAG  15 SAG  15 AQU  15 PIS  13 ARI  15 GEM  14 CAN  15 VIR  15 LIB  16 SAG  15 CAP  
19 SAG  18 CAP  17 CAP  18 PIS  17 ARI  15 TAU  18 CAN  16 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  18 CAP  17 AQU  
22 CAP  20 AQU  19 AQU  20 ARI  19 TAU  18 GEM  20 LEO  19 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  20 AQU  19 PIS  
23 AQU  22 PIS  21 PIS  22 TAU  22 GEM  20 CAN  23 VIR  21 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  
25 PIS  24 ARI  23 ARI  24 GEM  24 CAN  23 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  24 ARI  24 TAU  
28 ARI  26 TAU  26 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  25 VIR  28 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  
30 TAU          28 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  28 LIB  30 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  28 ARI  29 GEM  28 CAN  

30 CAN                  30 SCO          30 AQU          30 TAU          31 LEO  

2059
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 VIR   1 LIB   3 SCO   2 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   3 LEO   2 VIR   1 LIB   1 SCO  
5 LIB   4 SCO   5 SAG   4 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   5 VIR   5 LIB   4 SCO   3 SAG  
7 SCO   6 SAG   8 CAP   6 AQU   5 PIS   6 TAU   5 GEM   6 LEO   8 LIB   7 SCO   6 SAG   6 CAP  

10 SAG   8 CAP  10 AQU   8 PIS   8 ARI   8 GEM   8 CAN   9 VIR  10 SCO  10 SAG   8 CAP   8 AQU  
12 CAP  10 AQU  12 PIS  10 ARI  10 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO  11 LIB  13 SAG  12 CAP  11 AQU  10 PIS  
14 AQU  12 PIS  14 ARI  12 TAU  12 GEM  13 LEO  13 VIR  14 SCO  15 CAP  14 AQU  13 PIS  12 ARI  
16 PIS  14 ARI  16 TAU  14 GEM  14 CAN  15 VIR  15 LIB  16 SAG  17 AQU  17 PIS  15 ARI  14 TAU  
18 ARI  16 TAU  18 GEM  17 CAN  16 LEO  18 LIB  18 SCO  19 CAP  19 PIS  19 ARI  17 TAU  16 GEM  
20 TAU  19 GEM  20 CAN  19 LEO  19 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  21 AQU  21 ARI  21 TAU  19 GEM  19 CAN  
22 GEM  21 CAN  23 LEO  22 VIR  21 LIB  23 SAG  22 CAP  23 PIS  23 TAU  23 GEM  21 CAN  21 LEO  
25 CAN  23 LEO  25 VIR  24 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  25 GEM  25 CAN  23 LEO  23 VIR  
27 LEO  26 VIR  28 LIB  26 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  26 VIR  26 LIB  
30 VIR  28 LIB  30 SCO  29 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  28 ARI  29 GEM  30 LEO  30 VIR  28 LIB  28 SCO  

31 AQU          30 TAU  31 CAN                          31 SAG  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 6 9



2060
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 CAP   1 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR   3 SCO   2 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI  
4 AQU   3 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   3 CAN   4 VIR   4 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP   4 AQU   4 ARI   4 TAU  
6 PIS   5 ARI   5 TAU   6 CAN   5 LEO   6 LIB   6 SCO   8 CAP   6 AQU   6 PIS   6 TAU   6 GEM  
8 ARI   7 TAU   7 GEM   8 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO   9 SAG  10 AQU   8 PIS   8 ARI   8 GEM   8 CAN  

11 TAU   9 GEM   9 CAN  10 VIR  10 LIB  12 SAG  11 CAP  12 PIS  10 ARI  10 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO  
13 GEM  11 CAN  12 LEO  13 LIB  13 SCO  14 CAP  14 AQU  14 ARI  12 TAU  12 GEM  13 LEO  12 VIR  
15 CAN  14 LEO  14 VIR  15 SCO  15 SAG  16 AQU  16 PIS  16 TAU  15 GEM  14 CAN  15 VIR  15 LIB  
17 LEO  16 VIR  17 LIB  18 SAG  18 CAP  18 PIS  18 ARI  18 GEM  17 CAN  16 LEO  17 LIB  17 SCO  
20 VIR  18 LIB  19 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  20 CAN  19 LEO  19 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  
22 LIB  21 SCO  22 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  23 LEO  21 VIR  21 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  
25 SCO  23 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  
27 SAG  26 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  26 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  
29 CAP  28 AQU  29 PIS  29 TAU  28 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  29 CAP  30 PIS  29 ARI  

31 ARI          31 CAN          31 LIB                  31 AQU          31 TAU  

2061
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 GEM   1 CAN   2 LEO   1 VIR   3 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR  
4 CAN   3 LEO   4 VIR   3 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP   4 AQU   5 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   3 LEO   5 LIB  
6 LEO   5 VIR   7 LIB   5 SCO   8 CAP   6 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   5 GEM   7 LEO   5 VIR   7 SCO  
9 VIR   7 LIB   9 SCO   8 SAG  10 AQU   9 PIS   8 ARI   9 GEM   7 CAN   9 VIR   7 LIB  10 SAG  

11 LIB  10 SCO  12 SAG  10 CAP  13 PIS  11 ARI  11 TAU  11 CAN   9 LEO  11 LIB  10 SCO  12 CAP  
13 SCO  12 SAG  14 CAP  13 AQU  15 ARI  13 TAU  13 GEM  13 LEO  12 VIR  13 SCO  12 SAG  15 AQU  
16 SAG  15 CAP  17 AQU  15 PIS  17 TAU  15 GEM  15 CAN  15 VIR  14 LIB  16 SAG  15 CAP  17 PIS  
18 CAP  17 AQU  19 PIS  17 ARI  19 GEM  17 CAN  17 LEO  17 LIB  16 SCO  18 CAP  17 AQU  19 ARI  
21 AQU  19 PIS  21 ARI  19 TAU  21 CAN  19 LEO  19 VIR  20 SCO  19 SAG  21 AQU  20 PIS  22 TAU  
23 PIS  22 ARI  23 TAU  21 GEM  23 LEO  21 VIR  21 LIB  22 SAG  21 CAP  23 PIS  22 ARI  24 GEM  
25 ARI  24 TAU  25 GEM  23 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  23 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  26 ARI  24 TAU  26 CAN  
27 TAU  26 GEM  27 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  26 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  28 TAU  26 GEM  28 LEO  
30 GEM  28 CAN  29 LEO  28 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  29 CAP  30 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  

30 LIB                  31 AQU          30 TAU          30 LEO          

2062
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 LIB   2 SAG   1 SAG   3 AQU   3 PIS   1 ARI   1 TAU   1 CAN   2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   2 CAP  
3 SCO   5 CAP   4 CAP   5 PIS   5 ARI   4 TAU   3 GEM   3 LEO   4 LIB   4 SCO   5 CAP   4 AQU  
6 SAG   7 AQU   6 AQU   8 ARI   7 TAU   6 GEM   5 CAN   5 VIR   6 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   7 PIS  
8 CAP  10 PIS   9 PIS  10 TAU   9 GEM   8 CAN   7 LEO   8 LIB   8 SAG   8 CAP  10 PIS   9 ARI  

11 AQU  12 ARI  11 ARI  12 GEM  11 CAN  10 LEO   9 VIR  10 SCO  11 CAP  11 AQU  12 ARI  12 TAU  
13 PIS  14 TAU  13 TAU  14 CAN  13 LEO  12 VIR  11 LIB  12 SAG  13 AQU  13 PIS  14 TAU  14 GEM  
16 ARI  16 GEM  16 GEM  16 LEO  15 VIR  14 LIB  13 SCO  15 CAP  16 PIS  16 ARI  17 GEM  16 CAN  
18 TAU  18 CAN  18 CAN  18 VIR  18 LIB  16 SCO  16 SAG  17 AQU  18 ARI  18 TAU  19 CAN  18 LEO  
20 GEM  20 LEO  20 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  19 SAG  18 CAP  20 PIS  21 TAU  20 GEM  21 LEO  20 VIR  
22 CAN  23 VIR  22 VIR  23 SCO  22 SAG  21 CAP  21 AQU  22 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  
24 LEO  25 LIB  24 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  24 AQU  23 PIS  24 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  
26 VIR  27 SCO  26 SCO  28 CAP  27 AQU  26 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  
28 LIB          29 SAG  30 AQU  30 PIS  29 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  29 VIR  29 LIB  30 SAG  29 CAP  
31 SCO          31 CAP                          30 GEM  31 LEO          31 SCO                  

2063
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 AQU   2 ARI   1 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   2 TAU  
3 PIS   4 TAU   4 TAU   4 CAN   4 LEO   4 LIB   4 SCO   5 CAP   3 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   4 GEM  
6 ARI   7 GEM   6 GEM   7 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   6 PIS   6 ARI   7 GEM   6 CAN  
8 TAU   9 CAN   8 CAN   9 VIR   8 LIB   9 SAG   8 CAP  10 PIS   8 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN   8 LEO  

10 GEM  11 LEO  10 LEO  11 LIB  10 SCO  11 CAP  11 AQU  12 ARI  11 TAU  11 GEM  11 LEO  11 VIR  
12 CAN  13 VIR  12 VIR  13 SCO  12 SAG  14 AQU  13 PIS  15 TAU  13 GEM  13 CAN  13 VIR  13 LIB  
14 LEO  15 LIB  14 LIB  15 SAG  15 CAP  16 PIS  16 ARI  17 GEM  16 CAN  15 LEO  15 LIB  15 SCO  
16 VIR  17 SCO  16 SCO  17 CAP  17 AQU  19 ARI  18 TAU  19 CAN  18 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  17 SAG  
18 LIB  19 SAG  19 SAG  20 AQU  20 PIS  21 TAU  21 GEM  21 LEO  20 VIR  19 LIB  20 SAG  19 CAP  
21 SCO  22 CAP  21 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  23 GEM  23 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  21 SCO  22 CAP  22 AQU  
23 SAG  24 AQU  24 AQU  25 ARI  25 TAU  25 CAN  25 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  23 SAG  24 AQU  24 PIS  
25 CAP  27 PIS  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  27 SCO  26 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  
28 AQU          29 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  29 VIR  29 LIB  30 SAG  28 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  
31 PIS          31 TAU          31 LEO          31 SCO                  30 PIS                  

4 7 0 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



2064
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 GEM   1 LEO   2 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB  
3 CAN   3 VIR   4 LIB   4 SAG   4 CAP   5 PIS   5 ARI   4 TAU   5 CAN   4 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO  
5 LEO   5 LIB   6 SCO   6 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   7 TAU   6 GEM   7 LEO   7 VIR   5 LIB   6 SAG  
7 VIR   7 SCO   8 SAG   9 AQU   9 PIS  10 TAU  10 GEM   8 CAN   9 VIR   9 LIB   7 SCO   8 CAP  
9 LIB  10 SAG  10 CAP  11 PIS  11 ARI  12 GEM  12 CAN  11 LEO  11 LIB  11 SCO   9 SAG  11 AQU  

11 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  14 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  14 LEO  13 VIR  13 SCO  13 SAG  11 CAP  13 PIS  
13 SAG  14 AQU  15 PIS  16 TAU  16 GEM  17 LEO  16 VIR  15 LIB  15 SAG  15 CAP  13 AQU  15 ARI  
16 CAP  17 PIS  18 ARI  19 GEM  18 CAN  19 VIR  18 LIB  17 SCO  17 CAP  17 AQU  16 PIS  18 TAU  
18 AQU  19 ARI  20 TAU  21 CAN  21 LEO  21 LIB  20 SCO  19 SAG  20 AQU  19 PIS  18 ARI  20 GEM  
20 PIS  22 TAU  23 GEM  23 LEO  23 VIR  23 SCO  23 SAG  21 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  21 TAU  23 CAN  
23 ARI  24 GEM  25 CAN  26 VIR  25 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  23 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  23 GEM  25 LEO  
25 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  28 LIB  27 SCO  28 CAP  27 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  
28 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  30 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  28 LEO  30 LIB  
30 CAN          31 LIB          31 CAP                  31 TAU                  30 VIR          

2065
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 SCO   1 CAP   3 AQU   1 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   1 LIB   1 SCO   1 CAP   1 AQU  
3 SAG   3 AQU   5 PIS   4 ARI   3 TAU   5 CAN   4 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO   3 SAG   3 AQU   3 PIS  
5 CAP   6 PIS   7 ARI   6 TAU   6 GEM   7 LEO   7 VIR   5 LIB   6 SAG   5 CAP   6 PIS   5 ARI  
7 AQU   8 ARI  10 TAU   9 GEM   8 CAN  10 VIR   9 LIB   7 SCO   8 CAP   7 AQU   8 ARI   8 TAU  
9 PIS  11 TAU  12 GEM  11 CAN  11 LEO  12 LIB  11 SCO   9 SAG  10 AQU   9 PIS  11 TAU  10 GEM  

12 ARI  13 GEM  15 CAN  14 LEO  13 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  12 CAP  12 PIS  12 ARI  13 GEM  13 CAN  
14 TAU  16 CAN  17 LEO  16 VIR  15 LIB  16 SAG  15 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  16 CAN  15 LEO  
17 GEM  18 LEO  19 VIR  18 LIB  17 SCO  18 CAP  17 AQU  16 PIS  17 TAU  17 GEM  18 LEO  18 VIR  
19 CAN  20 VIR  22 LIB  20 SCO  19 SAG  20 AQU  20 PIS  18 ARI  19 GEM  19 CAN  21 VIR  20 LIB  
21 LEO  22 LIB  24 SCO  22 SAG  21 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  21 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  
24 VIR  24 SCO  26 SAG  24 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  23 GEM  24 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  
26 LIB  26 SAG  28 CAP  26 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  
28 SCO  28 CAP  30 AQU  28 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  28 LEO  29 LIB  28 SCO  29 CAP  28 AQU  
30 SAG                          31 TAU                  30 VIR          30 SAG          30 PIS  

2066
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 ARI   3 GEM   2 GEM   1 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO   2 CAP   3 PIS   2 ARI   1 TAU   3 CAN  
4 TAU   5 CAN   5 CAN   4 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO   4 SAG   4 AQU   5 ARI   4 TAU   3 GEM   5 LEO  
7 GEM   8 LEO   7 LEO   6 VIR   6 LIB   6 SAG   6 CAP   6 PIS   7 TAU   7 GEM   5 CAN   8 VIR  
9 CAN  10 VIR  10 VIR   8 LIB   8 SCO   8 CAP   8 AQU   8 ARI   9 GEM   9 CAN   8 LEO  10 LIB  

12 LEO  13 LIB  12 LIB  10 SCO  10 SAG  10 AQU  10 PIS  11 TAU  12 CAN  12 LEO  11 VIR  13 SCO  
14 VIR  15 SCO  14 SCO  12 SAG  12 CAP  12 PIS  12 ARI  13 GEM  14 LEO  14 VIR  13 LIB  15 SAG  
16 LIB  17 SAG  16 SAG  14 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  17 VIR  16 LIB  15 SCO  17 CAP  
18 SCO  19 CAP  18 CAP  17 AQU  16 PIS  17 TAU  17 GEM  18 LEO  19 LIB  19 SCO  17 SAG  19 AQU  
21 SAG  21 AQU  20 AQU  19 PIS  18 ARI  19 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  21 SCO  21 SAG  19 CAP  21 PIS  
23 CAP  23 PIS  23 PIS  21 ARI  21 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  23 LIB  23 SAG  23 CAP  21 AQU  23 ARI  
25 AQU  25 ARI  25 ARI  23 TAU  23 GEM  24 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  26 CAP  25 AQU  23 PIS  25 TAU  
27 PIS  28 TAU  27 TAU  26 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  27 SAG  28 AQU  27 PIS  26 ARI  28 GEM  
29 ARI          30 GEM  28 CAN  28 LEO  29 LIB  29 SCO  29 CAP  30 PIS  29 ARI  28 TAU  30 CAN  
31 TAU                          31 VIR          31 SAG  31 AQU                  30 GEM          

2067
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 LEO   3 LIB   2 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO   3 LIB   3 SCO  
4 VIR   5 SCO   4 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   4 VIR   5 SCO   5 SAG  
7 LIB   7 SAG   7 SAG   5 CAP   7 PIS   5 ARI   7 GEM   5 CAN   7 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   7 CAP  
9 SCO  10 CAP   9 CAP   7 AQU   9 ARI   7 TAU   9 CAN   8 LEO   9 LIB   9 SCO  10 CAP   9 AQU  

11 SAG  12 AQU  11 AQU   9 PIS  11 TAU   9 GEM  12 LEO  10 VIR  12 SCO  11 SAG  12 AQU  11 PIS  
13 CAP  14 PIS  13 PIS  11 ARI  13 GEM  12 CAN  14 VIR  13 LIB  14 SAG  13 CAP  14 PIS  13 ARI  
15 AQU  16 ARI  15 ARI  14 TAU  16 CAN  14 LEO  17 LIB  15 SCO  16 CAP  16 AQU  16 ARI  15 TAU  
17 PIS  18 TAU  17 TAU  16 GEM  18 LEO  17 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  18 AQU  18 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  
19 ARI  20 GEM  19 GEM  18 CAN  21 VIR  19 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  20 PIS  20 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  
21 TAU  23 CAN  22 CAN  21 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  22 ARI  22 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  
24 GEM  25 LEO  24 LEO  23 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  24 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  25 VIR  
26 CAN  28 VIR  27 VIR  26 LIB  28 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  27 GEM  26 CAN  28 VIR  28 LIB  
29 LEO          29 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  30 LIB  30 SCO  
31 VIR                  30 SAG          30 PIS          30 GEM          31 VIR                  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 7 1



2068
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   1 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   1 SCO   3 CAP   1 AQU   1 PIS  
3 CAP   4 PIS   4 ARI   3 TAU   5 CAN   3 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO   3 SAG   5 AQU   3 PIS   3 ARI  
5 AQU   6 ARI   6 TAU   5 GEM   7 LEO   6 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP   7 PIS   6 ARI   5 TAU  
7 PIS   8 TAU   8 GEM   7 CAN   9 VIR   8 LIB   8 SCO   9 CAP   8 AQU   9 ARI   8 TAU   7 GEM  

10 ARI  10 GEM  11 CAN  10 LEO  12 LIB  11 SCO  10 SAG  11 AQU  10 PIS  11 TAU  10 GEM   9 CAN  
12 TAU  13 CAN  13 LEO  12 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  13 CAP  13 PIS  12 ARI  13 GEM  12 CAN  11 LEO  
14 GEM  15 LEO  16 VIR  15 LIB  17 SAG  15 CAP  15 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  14 LEO  14 VIR  
16 CAN  18 VIR  18 LIB  17 SCO  19 CAP  17 AQU  17 PIS  17 TAU  16 GEM  18 LEO  16 VIR  16 LIB  
19 LEO  20 LIB  21 SCO  19 SAG  21 AQU  20 PIS  19 ARI  19 GEM  18 CAN  20 VIR  19 LIB  19 SCO  
21 VIR  23 SCO  23 SAG  22 CAP  23 PIS  22 ARI  21 TAU  22 CAN  20 LEO  23 LIB  21 SCO  21 SAG  
24 LIB  25 SAG  26 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  23 GEM  24 LEO  23 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  24 CAP  
26 SCO  27 CAP  28 AQU  26 PIS  28 TAU  26 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  25 LIB  28 SAG  26 CAP  26 AQU  
29 SAG  29 AQU  30 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  28 CAN  28 LEO  29 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  28 PIS  
31 CAP                  30 TAU                  30 VIR          30 SAG                  30 ARI  

2069
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 TAU   2 CAN   1 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB   1 SCO   3 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   2 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO  
3 GEM   4 LEO   3 LEO   4 LIB   4 SCO   3 SAG   5 AQU   4 PIS   4 TAU   4 GEM   4 LEO   4 VIR  
6 CAN   6 VIR   6 VIR   7 SCO   7 SAG   6 CAP   7 PIS   6 ARI   6 GEM   6 CAN   6 VIR   6 LIB  
8 LEO   9 LIB   8 LIB  10 SAG   9 CAP   8 AQU  10 ARI   8 TAU   8 CAN   8 LEO   9 LIB   9 SCO  

10 VIR  11 SCO  11 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  10 PIS  12 TAU  10 GEM  11 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO  11 SAG  
13 LIB  14 SAG  13 SAG  14 AQU  14 PIS  12 ARI  14 GEM  12 CAN  13 VIR  13 LIB  14 SAG  14 CAP  
15 SCO  16 CAP  16 CAP  17 PIS  16 ARI  14 TAU  16 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  15 SCO  16 CAP  16 AQU  
18 SAG  19 AQU  18 AQU  19 ARI  18 TAU  16 GEM  18 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  18 SAG  19 AQU  18 PIS  
20 CAP  21 PIS  20 PIS  21 TAU  20 GEM  18 CAN  20 VIR  19 LIB  20 SAG  20 CAP  21 PIS  21 ARI  
22 AQU  23 ARI  22 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  21 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  23 CAP  23 AQU  23 ARI  23 TAU  
24 PIS  25 TAU  24 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  23 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  25 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  
26 ARI  27 GEM  26 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  25 LIB  28 SAG  27 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  
28 TAU          28 CAN  29 VIR  29 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  30 ARI  29 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  
31 GEM          31 LEO                  30 SAG          31 PIS          31 GEM          31 VIR  

2070
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 LIB   1 SCO   1 SCO   2 CAP   2 AQU   3 ARI   2 TAU   1 GEM   1 LEO   3 LIB   1 SCO   1 SAG  
5 SCO   4 SAG   3 SAG   4 AQU   4 PIS   5 TAU   4 GEM   3 CAN   3 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG   4 CAP  
7 SAG   6 CAP   6 CAP   7 PIS   6 ARI   7 GEM   6 CAN   5 LEO   5 LIB   8 SAG   6 CAP   6 AQU  

10 CAP   9 AQU   8 AQU   9 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN   8 LEO   7 VIR   8 SCO  10 CAP   9 AQU   9 PIS  
12 AQU  11 PIS  10 PIS  11 TAU  10 GEM  11 LEO  10 VIR   9 LIB  10 SAG  13 AQU  11 PIS  11 ARI  
15 PIS  13 ARI  12 ARI  13 GEM  12 CAN  13 VIR  13 LIB  11 SCO  13 CAP  15 PIS  14 ARI  13 TAU  
17 ARI  15 TAU  15 TAU  15 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  15 SCO  14 SAG  15 AQU  17 ARI  16 TAU  15 GEM  
19 TAU  17 GEM  17 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  18 SAG  16 CAP  18 PIS  19 TAU  18 GEM  17 CAN  
21 GEM  20 CAN  19 CAN  19 VIR  19 LIB  20 SAG  20 CAP  19 AQU  20 ARI  21 GEM  20 CAN  19 LEO  
23 CAN  22 LEO  21 LEO  22 LIB  21 SCO  23 CAP  23 AQU  21 PIS  22 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  21 VIR  
25 LEO  24 VIR  23 VIR  24 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  25 PIS  23 ARI  24 GEM  26 LEO  24 VIR  23 LIB  
28 VIR  26 LIB  26 LIB  27 SAG  27 CAP  28 PIS  27 ARI  26 TAU  26 CAN  28 VIR  26 LIB  26 SCO  
30 LIB          28 SCO  29 CAP  29 AQU  30 ARI  29 TAU  28 GEM  28 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  28 SAG  

30 SAG          31 PIS                  30 CAN  30 VIR                  31 CAP  

2071
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 AQU   1 PIS   3 ARI   1 TAU   1 GEM   1 LEO   1 VIR   1 SCO   2 CAP   2 AQU   1 PIS   1 ARI  
5 PIS   4 ARI   5 TAU   3 GEM   3 CAN   3 VIR   3 LIB   4 SAG   5 AQU   5 PIS   4 ARI   3 TAU  
7 ARI   6 TAU   7 GEM   6 CAN   5 LEO   6 LIB   5 SCO   6 CAP   8 PIS   7 ARI   6 TAU   6 GEM  

10 TAU   8 GEM   9 CAN   8 LEO   7 VIR   8 SCO   7 SAG   9 AQU  10 ARI  10 TAU   8 GEM   8 CAN  
12 GEM  10 CAN  11 LEO  10 VIR   9 LIB  10 SAG  10 CAP  11 PIS  12 TAU  12 GEM  10 CAN  10 LEO  
14 CAN  12 LEO  14 VIR  12 LIB  12 SCO  13 CAP  12 AQU  14 ARI  15 GEM  14 CAN  12 LEO  12 VIR  
16 LEO  14 VIR  16 LIB  14 SCO  14 SAG  15 AQU  15 PIS  16 TAU  17 CAN  16 LEO  14 VIR  14 LIB  
18 VIR  16 LIB  18 SCO  17 SAG  16 CAP  18 PIS  17 ARI  18 GEM  19 LEO  18 VIR  17 LIB  16 SCO  
20 LIB  18 SCO  20 SAG  19 CAP  19 AQU  20 ARI  20 TAU  20 CAN  21 VIR  20 LIB  19 SCO  18 SAG  
22 SCO  21 SAG  23 CAP  22 AQU  21 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  22 LEO  23 LIB  23 SCO  21 SAG  21 CAP  
25 SAG  23 CAP  25 AQU  24 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  24 VIR  25 SCO  25 SAG  24 CAP  23 AQU  
27 CAP  26 AQU  28 PIS  26 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  27 SAG  27 CAP  26 AQU  26 PIS  
30 AQU  28 PIS  30 ARI  29 TAU  28 GEM  29 LEO  28 VIR  29 SCO  30 CAP  30 AQU  29 PIS  28 ARI  

30 CAN          30 LIB  31 SAG                          31 TAU  

4 7 2 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



2072
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 GEM   3 LEO   1 LEO   1 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   3 ARI   1 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR  
4 CAN   4 VIR   3 VIR   3 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU   4 PIS   5 TAU   4 GEM   3 CAN   4 VIR   3 LIB  
6 LEO   6 LIB   5 LIB   6 SAG   5 CAP   7 PIS   6 ARI   8 GEM   6 CAN   6 LEO   6 LIB   6 SCO  
8 VIR   9 SCO   7 SCO   8 CAP   8 AQU   9 ARI   9 TAU  10 CAN   8 LEO   8 VIR   8 SCO   8 SAG  

10 LIB  11 SAG   9 SAG  10 AQU  10 PIS  12 TAU  11 GEM  12 LEO  10 VIR  10 LIB  10 SAG  10 CAP  
12 SCO  13 CAP  12 CAP  13 PIS  13 ARI  14 GEM  13 CAN  14 VIR  12 LIB  12 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  
15 SAG  16 AQU  14 AQU  15 ARI  15 TAU  16 CAN  15 LEO  16 LIB  14 SCO  14 SAG  15 AQU  15 PIS  
17 CAP  18 PIS  17 PIS  18 TAU  17 GEM  18 LEO  17 VIR  18 SCO  16 SAG  16 CAP  17 PIS  17 ARI  
20 AQU  21 ARI  19 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  20 SAG  19 CAP  18 AQU  20 ARI  20 TAU  
22 PIS  23 TAU  22 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  22 CAP  21 AQU  21 PIS  22 TAU  22 GEM  
25 ARI  26 GEM  24 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  24 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  
27 TAU  28 CAN  26 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  26 LEO  
29 GEM          28 LEO  29 LIB  28 SCO  29 CAP  29 AQU  30 ARI  29 TAU  28 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  
31 CAN          30 VIR          30 SAG          31 PIS                  31 CAN          31 LIB  

2073
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 SCO   2 CAP   2 CAP   3 PIS   3 ARI   1 TAU   1 GEM   2 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU  
4 SAG   5 AQU   4 AQU   5 ARI   5 TAU   4 GEM   4 CAN   4 VIR   3 LIB   4 SAG   3 CAP   4 PIS  
6 CAP   7 PIS   7 PIS   8 TAU   8 GEM   6 CAN   6 LEO   6 LIB   5 SCO   6 CAP   5 AQU   7 ARI  
9 AQU  10 ARI   9 ARI  10 GEM  10 CAN   8 LEO   8 VIR   8 SCO   7 SAG   8 AQU   7 PIS   9 TAU  

11 PIS  12 TAU  12 TAU  13 CAN  12 LEO  11 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG   9 CAP  11 PIS  10 ARI  12 GEM  
14 ARI  15 GEM  14 GEM  15 LEO  14 VIR  13 LIB  12 SCO  13 CAP  11 AQU  13 ARI  12 TAU  14 CAN  
16 TAU  17 CAN  16 CAN  17 VIR  17 LIB  15 SCO  14 SAG  15 AQU  14 PIS  16 TAU  15 GEM  17 LEO  
18 GEM  19 LEO  19 LEO  19 LIB  19 SCO  17 SAG  16 CAP  17 PIS  16 ARI  18 GEM  17 CAN  19 VIR  
21 CAN  21 VIR  21 VIR  21 SCO  21 SAG  19 CAP  19 AQU  20 ARI  19 TAU  21 CAN  20 LEO  21 LIB  
23 LEO  23 LIB  23 LIB  23 SAG  23 CAP  21 AQU  21 PIS  22 TAU  21 GEM  23 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  
25 VIR  25 SCO  25 SCO  25 CAP  25 AQU  24 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  26 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  
27 LIB  27 SAG  27 SAG  28 AQU  27 PIS  26 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  26 LEO  28 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  
29 SCO          29 CAP  30 PIS  30 ARI  29 TAU  29 GEM  30 LEO  28 VIR  30 SCO  28 SAG  30 AQU  
31 SAG          31 AQU                          31 CAN          30 LIB          30 CAP          

2074
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 PIS   2 TAU   1 TAU   3 CAN   3 LEO   1 VIR   1 LIB   1 SAG   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   2 GEM  
3 ARI   5 GEM   4 GEM   5 LEO   5 VIR   3 LIB   3 SCO   3 CAP   4 PIS   3 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN  
6 TAU   7 CAN   6 CAN   7 VIR   7 LIB   5 SCO   5 SAG   5 AQU   6 ARI   6 TAU   7 CAN   7 LEO  
8 GEM   9 LEO   9 LEO  10 LIB   9 SCO   7 SAG   7 CAP   7 PIS   9 TAU   8 GEM  10 LEO   9 VIR  

11 CAN  12 VIR  11 VIR  12 SCO  11 SAG   9 CAP   9 AQU  10 ARI  11 GEM  11 CAN  12 VIR  12 LIB  
13 LEO  14 LIB  13 LIB  14 SAG  13 CAP  11 AQU  11 PIS  12 TAU  14 CAN  13 LEO  14 LIB  14 SCO  
15 VIR  16 SCO  15 SCO  16 CAP  15 AQU  14 PIS  13 ARI  15 GEM  16 LEO  16 VIR  16 SCO  16 SAG  
17 LIB  18 SAG  17 SAG  18 AQU  17 PIS  16 ARI  16 TAU  17 CAN  18 VIR  18 LIB  18 SAG  18 CAP  
20 SCO  20 CAP  19 CAP  20 PIS  20 ARI  19 TAU  18 GEM  20 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  
22 SAG  22 AQU  22 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  21 GEM  21 CAN  22 VIR  23 SCO  22 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  
24 CAP  25 PIS  24 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  24 CAN  23 LEO  24 LIB  25 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  
26 AQU  27 ARI  26 ARI  28 GEM  27 CAN  26 LEO  26 VIR  26 SCO  27 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  
28 PIS          29 TAU  30 CAN  30 LEO  28 VIR  28 LIB  28 SAG  29 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  29 GEM  
31 ARI          31 GEM                          30 SCO  30 CAP          31 ARI                  

2075
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 CAN   2 VIR   1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB  
3 LEO   4 LIB   3 LIB   4 SAG   3 CAP   4 PIS   3 ARI   5 GEM   3 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB   4 SCO  
6 VIR   6 SCO   6 SCO   6 CAP   5 AQU   6 ARI   6 TAU   7 CAN   6 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   6 SAG  
8 LIB   9 SAG   8 SAG   8 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   8 GEM  10 LEO   8 VIR   8 LIB   9 SAG   8 CAP  

10 SCO  11 CAP  10 CAP  10 PIS  10 ARI  11 GEM  11 CAN  12 VIR  11 LIB  10 SCO  11 CAP  10 AQU  
12 SAG  13 AQU  12 AQU  13 ARI  12 TAU  14 CAN  13 LEO  14 LIB  13 SCO  12 SAG  13 AQU  12 PIS  
14 CAP  15 PIS  14 PIS  15 TAU  15 GEM  16 LEO  16 VIR  17 SCO  15 SAG  15 CAP  15 PIS  14 ARI  
16 AQU  17 ARI  16 ARI  17 GEM  17 CAN  19 VIR  18 LIB  19 SAG  17 CAP  17 AQU  17 ARI  17 TAU  
18 PIS  19 TAU  19 TAU  20 CAN  20 LEO  21 LIB  20 SCO  21 CAP  19 AQU  19 PIS  19 TAU  19 GEM  
21 ARI  22 GEM  21 GEM  22 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  23 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  21 ARI  22 GEM  22 CAN  
23 TAU  24 CAN  24 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  23 TAU  24 CAN  24 LEO  
25 GEM  27 LEO  26 LEO  27 LIB  27 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  
28 CAN          29 VIR  29 SCO  29 SAG  29 AQU  29 PIS  29 TAU  28 GEM  28 CAN  29 VIR  29 LIB  
30 LEO          31 LIB          31 CAP          31 ARI                  31 LEO          31 SCO  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 7 3



2076
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
3 SAG   1 CAP   2 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS  
5 CAP   3 AQU   4 PIS   4 TAU   4 GEM   5 LEO   5 VIR   4 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP   5 PIS   4 ARI  
7 AQU   5 PIS   6 ARI   6 GEM   6 CAN   7 VIR   7 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   6 TAU  
9 PIS   7 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN   9 LEO  10 LIB  10 SCO   8 SAG   9 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   8 GEM  

11 ARI   9 TAU  10 GEM  11 LEO  11 VIR  12 SCO  12 SAG  10 CAP  11 PIS  10 ARI  11 GEM  11 CAN  
13 TAU  12 GEM  12 CAN  14 VIR  14 LIB  15 SAG  14 CAP  13 AQU  13 ARI  12 TAU  13 CAN  13 LEO  
15 GEM  14 CAN  15 LEO  16 LIB  16 SCO  17 CAP  16 AQU  14 PIS  15 TAU  15 GEM  16 LEO  16 VIR  
18 CAN  17 LEO  17 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  19 AQU  18 PIS  16 ARI  17 GEM  17 CAN  18 VIR  18 LIB  
20 LEO  19 VIR  20 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  21 PIS  20 ARI  19 TAU  20 CAN  19 LEO  21 LIB  20 SCO  
23 VIR  22 LIB  22 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  21 GEM  22 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  23 SAG  
25 LIB  24 SCO  25 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  23 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  
28 SCO  26 SAG  27 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  27 SCO  28 CAP  27 AQU  
30 SAG  28 CAP  29 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  30 CAN  29 LEO  28 VIR  29 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  29 PIS  

31 PIS          31 GEM                  31 LIB          31 CAP          31 ARI  

2077
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 TAU   1 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   1 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG   1 CAP   1 PIS   1 ARI   1 GEM   1 CAN  
5 GEM   3 CAN   5 LEO   4 VIR   3 LIB   5 SAG   4 CAP   3 AQU   3 ARI   3 TAU   3 CAN   3 LEO  
7 CAN   6 LEO   7 VIR   6 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU   5 PIS   5 TAU   5 GEM   6 LEO   5 VIR  
9 LEO   8 VIR  10 LIB   9 SCO   8 SAG   9 AQU   9 PIS   7 ARI   7 GEM   7 CAN   8 VIR   8 LIB  

12 VIR  11 LIB  12 SCO  11 SAG  11 CAP  11 PIS  11 ARI   9 TAU  10 CAN   9 LEO  10 LIB  10 SCO  
14 LIB  13 SCO  15 SAG  13 CAP  13 AQU  13 ARI  13 TAU  11 GEM  12 LEO  12 VIR  13 SCO  13 SAG  
17 SCO  16 SAG  17 CAP  16 AQU  15 PIS  15 TAU  15 GEM  13 CAN  14 VIR  14 LIB  15 SAG  15 CAP  
19 SAG  18 CAP  19 AQU  18 PIS  17 ARI  18 GEM  17 CAN  16 LEO  17 LIB  17 SCO  18 CAP  17 AQU  
21 CAP  20 AQU  21 PIS  20 ARI  19 TAU  20 CAN  19 LEO  18 VIR  19 SCO  19 SAG  20 AQU  20 PIS  
23 AQU  22 PIS  23 ARI  22 TAU  21 GEM  22 LEO  22 VIR  21 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  
25 PIS  24 ARI  25 TAU  24 GEM  23 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  23 SCO  24 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  
27 ARI  26 TAU  27 GEM  26 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  27 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  
30 TAU  28 GEM  30 CAN  28 LEO  28 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  28 ARI  29 GEM  28 CAN  

31 LIB                  30 AQU          30 TAU          30 LEO  

2078
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 VIR   3 SCO   2 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   2 LEO   2 VIR   3 SCO   3 SAG  
4 LIB   6 SAG   5 SAG   4 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   5 VIR   4 LIB   5 SAG   5 CAP  
7 SCO   8 CAP   7 CAP   6 AQU   5 PIS   6 TAU   5 GEM   6 LEO   7 LIB   7 SCO   8 CAP   8 AQU  
9 SAG  10 AQU  10 AQU   8 PIS   8 ARI   8 GEM   7 CAN   8 VIR   9 SCO   9 SAG  10 AQU  10 PIS  

12 CAP  12 PIS  12 PIS  10 ARI  10 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO  11 LIB  12 SAG  12 CAP  13 PIS  12 ARI  
14 AQU  14 ARI  14 ARI  12 TAU  12 GEM  12 LEO  12 VIR  13 SCO  14 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  
16 PIS  16 TAU  16 TAU  14 GEM  14 CAN  14 VIR  14 LIB  16 SAG  17 AQU  16 PIS  17 TAU  16 GEM  
18 ARI  18 GEM  18 GEM  16 CAN  16 LEO  17 LIB  17 SCO  18 CAP  19 PIS  19 ARI  19 GEM  18 CAN  
20 TAU  21 CAN  20 CAN  18 LEO  18 VIR  19 SCO  19 SAG  20 AQU  21 ARI  21 TAU  21 CAN  20 LEO  
22 GEM  23 LEO  22 LEO  21 VIR  21 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  23 PIS  23 TAU  23 GEM  23 LEO  23 VIR  
24 CAN  25 VIR  25 VIR  23 LIB  23 SCO  24 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  25 GEM  25 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  
27 LEO  28 LIB  27 LIB  26 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  28 LIB  27 SCO  
29 VIR          30 SCO  28 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  28 ARI  29 GEM  29 LEO  29 VIR  30 SCO  30 SAG  
31 LIB                          30 AQU          31 TAU  31 CAN          31 LIB                  

2079
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 CAP   3 PIS   2 PIS   3 TAU   2 GEM   2 LEO   2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   2 CAP   3 PIS   3 ARI  
4 AQU   5 ARI   4 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN   5 VIR   4 LIB   3 SCO   4 CAP   4 AQU   5 ARI   5 TAU  
6 PIS   7 TAU   6 TAU   7 CAN   6 LEO   7 LIB   7 SCO   5 SAG   7 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   7 GEM  
9 ARI   9 GEM   8 GEM   9 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO   9 SAG   8 CAP   9 PIS   9 ARI   9 GEM   9 CAN  

11 TAU  11 CAN  10 CAN  11 VIR  11 LIB  12 SAG  12 CAP  10 AQU  11 ARI  11 TAU  11 CAN  11 LEO  
13 GEM  13 LEO  13 LEO  13 LIB  13 SCO  14 CAP  14 AQU  13 PIS  14 TAU  13 GEM  13 LEO  13 VIR  
15 CAN  15 VIR  15 VIR  16 SCO  16 SAG  17 AQU  17 PIS  15 ARI  16 GEM  15 CAN  16 VIR  15 LIB  
17 LEO  18 LIB  17 LIB  18 SAG  18 CAP  19 PIS  19 ARI  17 TAU  18 CAN  17 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  
19 VIR  20 SCO  19 SCO  21 CAP  21 AQU  22 ARI  21 TAU  19 GEM  20 LEO  19 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  
21 LIB  23 SAG  22 SAG  23 AQU  23 PIS  24 TAU  23 GEM  22 CAN  22 VIR  22 LIB  23 SAG  22 CAP  
24 SCO  25 CAP  25 CAP  26 PIS  25 ARI  26 GEM  25 CAN  24 LEO  24 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  25 AQU  
26 SAG  28 AQU  27 AQU  28 ARI  27 TAU  28 CAN  27 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  26 SAG  28 AQU  27 PIS  
29 CAP          29 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  30 LEO  29 VIR  28 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  30 PIS  30 ARI  
31 AQU          31 ARI          31 CAN                  30 SCO          31 AQU                  

4 7 4 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



2080
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO   3 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR  
3 GEM   4 LEO   4 VIR   5 SCO   5 SAG   3 CAP   3 AQU   4 ARI   3 TAU   5 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB  
5 CAN   6 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   7 CAP   6 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   5 GEM   7 LEO   5 VIR   7 SCO  
7 LEO   8 LIB   8 SCO  10 CAP   9 AQU   8 PIS   8 ARI   9 GEM   7 CAN   9 VIR   7 LIB   9 SAG  
9 VIR  10 SCO  11 SAG  12 AQU  12 PIS  11 ARI  10 TAU  11 CAN   9 LEO  11 LIB   9 SCO  11 CAP  

11 LIB  12 SAG  13 CAP  15 PIS  14 ARI  13 TAU  13 GEM  13 LEO  12 VIR  13 SCO  12 SAG  14 AQU  
14 SCO  15 CAP  16 AQU  17 ARI  17 TAU  15 GEM  15 CAN  15 VIR  14 LIB  15 SAG  14 CAP  16 PIS  
16 SAG  17 AQU  18 PIS  19 TAU  19 GEM  17 CAN  17 LEO  17 LIB  16 SCO  18 CAP  17 AQU  19 ARI  
19 CAP  20 PIS  21 ARI  21 GEM  21 CAN  19 LEO  19 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  20 AQU  19 PIS  21 TAU  
21 AQU  22 ARI  23 TAU  24 CAN  23 LEO  21 VIR  21 LIB  22 SAG  20 CAP  23 PIS  22 ARI  24 GEM  
24 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  26 LEO  25 VIR  23 LIB  23 SCO  24 CAP  23 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  26 CAN  
26 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  28 VIR  27 LIB  26 SCO  25 SAG  27 AQU  25 PIS  28 TAU  26 GEM  28 LEO  
28 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  28 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  28 CAN  30 VIR  
31 GEM          31 VIR                          30 AQU          30 TAU          30 LEO          

2081
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 LIB   1 SAG   1 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS   1 ARI   3 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP  
3 SCO   4 CAP   3 CAP   4 PIS   4 ARI   3 TAU   5 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB   3 SCO   4 CAP   4 AQU  
5 SAG   6 AQU   6 AQU   7 ARI   7 TAU   5 GEM   7 LEO   5 VIR   6 SCO   5 SAG   6 AQU   6 PIS  
8 CAP   9 PIS   8 PIS   9 TAU   9 GEM   8 CAN   9 VIR   7 LIB   8 SAG   8 CAP   9 PIS   9 ARI  

10 AQU  11 ARI  11 ARI  12 GEM  11 CAN  10 LEO  11 LIB  10 SCO  10 CAP  10 AQU  11 ARI  11 TAU  
13 PIS  14 TAU  13 TAU  14 CAN  13 LEO  12 VIR  13 SCO  12 SAG  13 AQU  13 PIS  14 TAU  14 GEM  
15 ARI  16 GEM  16 GEM  16 LEO  16 VIR  14 LIB  16 SAG  14 CAP  15 PIS  15 ARI  16 GEM  16 CAN  
18 TAU  18 CAN  18 CAN  18 VIR  18 LIB  16 SCO  18 CAP  16 AQU  18 ARI  18 TAU  19 CAN  18 LEO  
20 GEM  21 LEO  20 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  18 SAG  20 AQU  19 PIS  20 TAU  20 GEM  21 LEO  20 VIR  
22 CAN  23 VIR  22 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  21 CAP  23 PIS  22 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  
24 LEO  25 LIB  24 LIB  25 SAG  24 CAP  23 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  25 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  
26 VIR  27 SCO  26 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  25 PIS  28 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  
28 LIB          28 SAG  29 AQU  29 PIS  28 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  29 VIR  29 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  
30 SCO          30 CAP                  30 TAU          31 LEO          31 SCO          31 AQU  

2082
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
3 PIS   1 ARI   1 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   2 VIR   2 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   3 PIS   1 ARI   1 TAU  
5 ARI   4 TAU   3 TAU   4 CAN   4 LEO   5 LIB   4 SCO   4 CAP   3 AQU   5 ARI   4 TAU   4 GEM  
8 TAU   6 GEM   6 GEM   7 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   5 PIS   8 TAU   6 GEM   6 CAN  

10 GEM   9 CAN   8 CAN   9 VIR   8 LIB   9 SAG   8 CAP   9 PIS   8 ARI  10 GEM   9 CAN   8 LEO  
12 CAN  11 LEO  10 LEO  11 LIB  10 SCO  11 CAP  10 AQU  11 ARI  10 TAU  13 CAN  11 LEO  11 VIR  
14 LEO  13 VIR  12 VIR  13 SCO  12 SAG  13 AQU  13 PIS  14 TAU  13 GEM  15 LEO  13 VIR  13 LIB  
16 VIR  15 LIB  14 LIB  15 SAG  14 CAP  15 PIS  15 ARI  16 GEM  15 CAN  17 VIR  16 LIB  15 SCO  
19 LIB  17 SCO  16 SCO  17 CAP  17 AQU  18 ARI  18 TAU  19 CAN  18 LEO  19 LIB  18 SCO  17 SAG  
21 SCO  19 SAG  18 SAG  19 AQU  19 PIS  20 TAU  20 GEM  21 LEO  20 VIR  21 SCO  20 SAG  19 CAP  
23 SAG  21 CAP  21 CAP  22 PIS  21 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  23 SAG  22 CAP  21 AQU  
25 CAP  24 AQU  23 AQU  24 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  25 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  24 AQU  23 PIS  
27 AQU  26 PIS  25 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  27 VIR  27 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  26 ARI  
30 PIS          28 ARI  29 GEM  29 CAN  30 VIR  29 LIB  29 SAG  28 CAP  30 PIS  28 ARI  28 TAU  

30 TAU          31 LEO          31 SCO          30 AQU                  31 GEM  

2083
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 CAN   1 LEO   3 VIR   1 LIB   1 SCO   1 CAP   3 PIS   1 ARI   3 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   1 VIR  
5 LEO   3 VIR   5 LIB   3 SCO   3 SAG   3 AQU   5 ARI   4 TAU   5 CAN   5 LEO   4 VIR   3 LIB  
7 VIR   5 LIB   7 SCO   5 SAG   5 CAP   5 PIS   7 TAU   6 GEM   8 LEO   7 VIR   6 LIB   5 SCO  
9 LIB   8 SCO   9 SAG   7 CAP   7 AQU   8 ARI  10 GEM   9 CAN  10 VIR   9 LIB   8 SCO   7 SAG  

11 SCO  10 SAG  11 CAP   9 AQU   9 PIS  10 TAU  12 CAN  11 LEO  12 LIB  12 SCO  10 SAG   9 CAP  
13 SAG  12 CAP  13 AQU  12 PIS  11 ARI  13 GEM  15 LEO  14 VIR  14 SCO  14 SAG  12 CAP  11 AQU  
15 CAP  14 AQU  15 PIS  14 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  17 VIR  16 LIB  16 SAG  16 CAP  14 AQU  14 PIS  
18 AQU  16 PIS  18 ARI  17 TAU  16 GEM  18 LEO  20 LIB  18 SCO  18 CAP  18 AQU  16 PIS  16 ARI  
20 PIS  19 ARI  20 TAU  19 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  22 SCO  20 SAG  21 AQU  20 PIS  19 ARI  18 TAU  
22 ARI  21 TAU  23 GEM  22 CAN  21 LEO  22 LIB  24 SAG  22 CAP  23 PIS  22 ARI  21 TAU  21 GEM  
25 TAU  24 GEM  25 CAN  24 LEO  24 VIR  24 SCO  26 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  25 TAU  23 GEM  23 CAN  
27 GEM  26 CAN  28 LEO  26 VIR  26 LIB  26 SAG  28 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 GEM  26 CAN  26 LEO  
30 CAN  28 LEO  30 VIR  29 LIB  28 SCO  28 CAP  30 PIS  29 ARI  30 GEM  30 CAN  29 LEO  28 VIR  

30 SAG  30 AQU          31 TAU                          31 LIB  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 7 5



2084
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 SCO   2 CAP   1 CAP   1 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   1 CAN   3 VIR   1 LIB   1 SCO   1 CAP   1 AQU  
4 SAG   4 AQU   3 AQU   3 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   4 LEO   5 LIB   4 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU   3 PIS  
6 CAP   6 PIS   5 PIS   6 TAU   5 GEM   7 LEO   6 VIR   7 SCO   6 SAG   5 CAP   6 PIS   5 ARI  
8 AQU   9 ARI   7 ARI   8 GEM   8 CAN   9 VIR   9 LIB  10 SAG   8 CAP   7 AQU   8 ARI   7 TAU  

10 PIS  11 TAU   9 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO  12 LIB  11 SCO  12 CAP  10 AQU   9 PIS  10 TAU  10 GEM  
12 ARI  13 GEM  12 GEM  13 LEO  13 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  14 AQU  12 PIS  12 ARI  12 GEM  12 CAN  
14 TAU  16 CAN  14 CAN  15 VIR  15 LIB  16 SAG  15 CAP  16 PIS  14 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  15 LEO  
17 GEM  18 LEO  17 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  18 CAP  17 AQU  18 ARI  16 TAU  16 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  
20 CAN  21 VIR  19 VIR  20 SCO  19 SAG  20 AQU  19 PIS  20 TAU  19 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  
22 LEO  23 LIB  21 LIB  22 SAG  21 CAP  22 PIS  21 ARI  22 GEM  21 CAN  21 LEO  22 LIB  22 SCO  
24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SCO  24 CAP  23 AQU  24 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  
27 LIB  27 SAG  26 SAG  26 AQU  26 PIS  26 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  26 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  
29 SCO          28 CAP  28 PIS  28 ARI  29 GEM  29 CAN  30 VIR  29 LIB  28 SCO  29 CAP  28 AQU  
31 SAG          30 AQU          30 TAU          31 LEO                  30 SAG          30 PIS  

2085
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 ARI   2 GEM   2 GEM   3 LEO   3 VIR   1 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   3 GEM   2 CAN  
4 TAU   5 CAN   4 CAN   5 VIR   5 LIB   4 SCO   4 SAG   4 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   5 CAN   5 LEO  
6 GEM   7 LEO   6 LEO   8 LIB   7 SCO   6 SAG   6 CAP   6 PIS   4 ARI   6 GEM   7 LEO   7 VIR  
8 CAN  10 VIR   9 VIR  10 SCO  10 SAG   8 CAP   8 AQU   8 ARI   7 TAU   8 CAN  10 VIR  10 LIB  

11 LEO  12 LIB  11 LIB  12 SAG  12 CAP  10 AQU  10 PIS  10 TAU   9 GEM  11 LEO  12 LIB  12 SCO  
14 VIR  15 SCO  14 SCO  15 CAP  14 AQU  12 PIS  12 ARI  12 GEM  11 CAN  13 VIR  15 SCO  14 SAG  
16 LIB  17 SAG  16 SAG  17 AQU  16 PIS  14 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  14 LEO  16 LIB  17 SAG  17 CAP  
18 SCO  19 CAP  18 CAP  19 PIS  18 ARI  17 TAU  16 GEM  17 LEO  16 VIR  18 SCO  19 CAP  19 AQU  
21 SAG  21 AQU  21 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  19 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  19 LIB  21 SAG  21 AQU  21 PIS  
23 CAP  23 PIS  23 PIS  23 TAU  23 GEM  21 CAN  21 LEO  22 LIB  21 SCO  23 CAP  24 PIS  23 ARI  
25 AQU  25 ARI  25 ARI  25 GEM  25 CAN  24 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  23 SAG  25 AQU  26 ARI  25 TAU  
27 PIS  27 TAU  27 TAU  28 CAN  27 LEO  26 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  28 TAU  27 GEM  
29 ARI          29 GEM  30 LEO  30 VIR  29 LIB  29 SCO  29 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  30 GEM  30 CAN  
31 TAU          31 CAN                          31 SAG          30 PIS  31 TAU                  

2086
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 LEO   2 LIB   1 LIB   3 SAG   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   1 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO  
3 VIR   5 SCO   4 SCO   5 CAP   5 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   3 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG  
6 LIB   7 SAG   6 SAG   7 AQU   7 PIS   5 ARI   7 GEM   5 CAN   6 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   7 CAP  
8 SCO   9 CAP   9 CAP   9 PIS   9 ARI   7 TAU   9 CAN   7 LEO   9 LIB   8 SCO  10 CAP   9 AQU  

11 SAG  12 AQU  11 AQU  11 ARI  11 TAU   9 GEM  11 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO  11 SAG  12 AQU  11 PIS  
13 CAP  14 PIS  13 PIS  13 TAU  13 GEM  11 CAN  13 VIR  12 LIB  14 SAG  13 CAP  14 PIS  13 ARI  
15 AQU  15 ARI  15 ARI  15 GEM  15 CAN  14 LEO  16 LIB  15 SCO  16 CAP  16 AQU  16 ARI  16 TAU  
17 PIS  18 TAU  17 TAU  18 CAN  17 LEO  16 VIR  18 SCO  17 SAG  18 AQU  18 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  
19 ARI  20 GEM  19 GEM  20 LEO  20 VIR  19 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  20 PIS  20 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  
21 TAU  22 CAN  21 CAN  22 VIR  22 LIB  21 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  22 ARI  22 TAU  22 CAN  22 LEO  
23 GEM  24 LEO  24 LEO  25 LIB  25 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  24 TAU  24 GEM  24 LEO  24 VIR  
26 CAN  27 VIR  26 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  26 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  27 LIB  
28 LEO          29 LIB  30 SAG  30 CAP  28 AQU  30 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  28 LEO  29 LIB  29 SCO  
31 VIR          31 SCO                  30 PIS          30 GEM          31 VIR                  

2087
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 SAG   2 AQU   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   1 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS  
3 CAP   4 PIS   3 PIS   4 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   3 VIR   5 SCO   3 SAG   3 CAP   4 PIS   4 ARI  
5 AQU   6 ARI   5 ARI   6 GEM   5 CAN   6 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   6 TAU  
8 PIS   8 TAU   7 TAU   8 CAN   7 LEO   8 LIB   8 SCO  10 CAP   8 AQU   8 PIS   9 TAU   8 GEM  

10 ARI  10 GEM   9 GEM  10 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO  11 SAG  12 AQU  11 PIS  10 ARI  11 GEM  10 CAN  
12 TAU  12 CAN  12 CAN  12 VIR  12 LIB  13 SAG  13 CAP  14 PIS  13 ARI  12 TAU  13 CAN  12 LEO  
14 GEM  15 LEO  14 LEO  15 LIB  15 SCO  16 CAP  16 AQU  16 ARI  15 TAU  14 GEM  15 LEO  14 VIR  
16 CAN  17 VIR  16 VIR  17 SCO  17 SAG  18 AQU  18 PIS  18 TAU  17 GEM  16 CAN  17 VIR  17 LIB  
18 LEO  19 LIB  19 LIB  20 SAG  20 CAP  21 PIS  20 ARI  21 GEM  19 CAN  18 LEO  19 LIB  19 SCO  
21 VIR  22 SCO  21 SCO  22 CAP  22 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  23 CAN  21 LEO  21 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  
23 LIB  24 SAG  24 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  23 VIR  23 LIB  24 SAG  24 CAP  
26 SCO  27 CAP  26 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  27 GEM  26 CAN  27 VIR  26 LIB  25 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  
28 SAG          29 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  29 LIB  28 SCO  28 SAG  29 AQU  29 PIS  
30 CAP          31 PIS          31 GEM          31 VIR                  31 CAP          31 ARI  

4 7 6 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



2088
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 TAU   1 GEM   1 CAN   2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   2 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO  
4 GEM   3 CAN   3 LEO   4 LIB   4 SCO   5 CAP   5 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   4 GEM   4 LEO   3 VIR  
6 CAN   5 LEO   5 VIR   6 SCO   6 SAG   7 AQU   7 PIS   6 ARI   6 GEM   6 CAN   6 VIR   6 LIB  
9 LEO   7 VIR   8 LIB   9 SAG   9 CAP  10 PIS   9 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN   8 LEO   8 LIB   8 SCO  

11 VIR   9 LIB  10 SCO  11 CAP  11 AQU  12 ARI  12 TAU  10 GEM  11 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO  10 SAG  
13 LIB  12 SCO  13 SAG  14 AQU  14 PIS  14 TAU  14 GEM  12 CAN  13 VIR  12 LIB  13 SAG  13 CAP  
15 SCO  14 SAG  15 CAP  16 PIS  16 ARI  16 GEM  16 CAN  14 LEO  15 LIB  15 SCO  16 CAP  16 AQU  
18 SAG  17 CAP  18 AQU  18 ARI  18 TAU  18 CAN  18 LEO  16 VIR  17 SCO  17 SAG  18 AQU  18 PIS  
20 CAP  19 AQU  20 PIS  21 TAU  20 GEM  20 LEO  20 VIR  18 LIB  20 SAG  19 CAP  21 PIS  20 ARI  
23 AQU  21 PIS  22 ARI  23 GEM  22 CAN  23 VIR  22 LIB  21 SCO  22 CAP  22 AQU  23 ARI  23 TAU  
25 PIS  24 ARI  24 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  25 LIB  24 SCO  23 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  25 TAU  25 GEM  
27 ARI  26 TAU  26 GEM  27 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  27 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  
30 TAU  28 GEM  28 CAN  29 VIR  28 LIB  30 SAG  29 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  

30 LEO          31 SCO                  31 PIS          31 GEM          31 VIR  

2089
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 LIB   1 SCO   2 SAG   1 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   2 TAU   1 GEM   1 LEO   3 LIB   1 SCO   1 SAG  
4 SCO   3 SAG   5 CAP   4 AQU   4 PIS   5 TAU   4 GEM   3 CAN   3 VIR   5 SCO   3 SAG   3 CAP  
7 SAG   6 CAP   7 AQU   6 PIS   6 ARI   7 GEM   6 CAN   5 LEO   5 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP   5 AQU  
9 CAP   8 AQU  10 PIS   9 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN   8 LEO   7 VIR   7 SCO   9 CAP   8 AQU   8 PIS  

12 AQU  11 PIS  12 ARI  11 TAU  10 GEM  11 LEO  10 VIR   9 LIB   9 SAG  12 AQU  11 PIS  10 ARI  
14 PIS  13 ARI  15 TAU  13 GEM  12 CAN  13 VIR  12 LIB  11 SCO  12 CAP  14 PIS  13 ARI  13 TAU  
17 ARI  15 TAU  17 GEM  15 CAN  15 LEO  15 LIB  15 SCO  13 SAG  14 AQU  17 ARI  15 TAU  15 GEM  
19 TAU  18 GEM  19 CAN  17 LEO  17 VIR  17 SCO  17 SAG  16 CAP  17 PIS  19 TAU  18 GEM  17 CAN  
21 GEM  20 CAN  21 LEO  19 VIR  19 LIB  20 SAG  19 CAP  18 AQU  19 ARI  21 GEM  20 CAN  19 LEO  
23 CAN  22 LEO  23 VIR  22 LIB  21 SCO  22 CAP  22 AQU  21 PIS  22 TAU  24 CAN  22 LEO  21 VIR  
25 LEO  24 VIR  25 LIB  24 SCO  23 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  23 ARI  24 GEM  26 LEO  24 VIR  23 LIB  
27 VIR  26 LIB  27 SCO  26 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  27 ARI  26 TAU  26 CAN  28 VIR  26 LIB  26 SCO  
29 LIB  28 SCO  30 SAG  28 CAP  28 AQU  30 ARI  29 TAU  28 GEM  28 LEO  30 LIB  28 SCO  28 SAG  

31 PIS                  30 CAN  30 VIR                  30 CAP  

2090
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 AQU   3 ARI   2 ARI   1 TAU   1 GEM   1 LEO   1 VIR   1 SCO   2 CAP   2 AQU   3 ARI   3 TAU  
4 PIS   6 TAU   5 TAU   3 GEM   3 CAN   3 VIR   3 LIB   3 SAG   4 AQU   4 PIS   5 TAU   5 GEM  
7 ARI   8 GEM   7 GEM   6 CAN   5 LEO   6 LIB   5 SCO   6 CAP   7 PIS   7 ARI   8 GEM   7 CAN  
9 TAU  10 CAN   9 CAN   8 LEO   7 VIR   8 SCO   7 SAG   8 AQU   9 ARI   9 TAU  10 CAN  10 LEO  

12 GEM  12 LEO  12 LEO  10 VIR   9 LIB  10 SAG   9 CAP  11 PIS  12 TAU  12 GEM  12 LEO  12 VIR  
14 CAN  14 VIR  14 VIR  12 LIB  11 SCO  12 CAP  12 AQU  13 ARI  14 GEM  14 CAN  15 VIR  14 LIB  
16 LEO  16 LIB  16 LIB  14 SCO  14 SAG  14 AQU  14 PIS  16 TAU  17 CAN  16 LEO  17 LIB  16 SCO  
18 VIR  18 SCO  18 SCO  16 SAG  16 CAP  17 PIS  17 ARI  18 GEM  19 LEO  18 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  
20 LIB  20 SAG  20 SAG  18 CAP  18 AQU  19 ARI  19 TAU  20 CAN  21 VIR  20 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  
22 SCO  23 CAP  22 CAP  21 AQU  21 PIS  22 TAU  22 GEM  22 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  23 CAP  23 AQU  
24 SAG  25 AQU  24 AQU  23 PIS  23 ARI  24 GEM  24 CAN  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  25 PIS  
26 CAP  28 PIS  27 PIS  26 ARI  26 TAU  27 CAN  26 LEO  26 LIB  27 SAG  27 CAP  28 PIS  28 ARI  
29 AQU          30 ARI  28 TAU  28 GEM  29 LEO  28 VIR  29 SCO  29 CAP  29 AQU  30 ARI  30 TAU  
31 PIS                          30 CAN          30 LIB  31 SAG          31 PIS                  

2091
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
2 GEM   2 LEO   2 LEO   2 LIB   2 SCO   2 CAP   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   2 GEM   3 LEO   2 VIR  
4 CAN   4 VIR   4 VIR   4 SCO   4 SAG   4 AQU   4 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   4 CAN   5 VIR   5 LIB  
6 LEO   7 LIB   6 LIB   6 SAG   6 CAP   7 PIS   7 ARI   5 TAU   7 CAN   6 LEO   7 LIB   7 SCO  
8 VIR   9 SCO   8 SCO   8 CAP   8 AQU   9 ARI   9 TAU   8 GEM   9 LEO   9 VIR   9 SCO   9 SAG  

10 LIB  11 SAG  10 SAG  11 AQU  10 PIS  12 TAU  12 GEM  10 CAN  11 VIR  11 LIB  11 SAG  11 CAP  
12 SCO  13 CAP  12 CAP  13 PIS  13 ARI  14 GEM  14 CAN  13 LEO  13 LIB  13 SCO  13 CAP  13 AQU  
15 SAG  15 AQU  15 AQU  16 ARI  16 TAU  17 CAN  16 LEO  15 VIR  15 SCO  15 SAG  15 AQU  15 PIS  
17 CAP  18 PIS  17 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  19 LEO  19 VIR  17 LIB  17 SAG  17 CAP  18 PIS  17 ARI  
19 AQU  20 ARI  19 ARI  21 GEM  20 CAN  21 VIR  21 LIB  19 SCO  19 CAP  19 AQU  20 ARI  20 TAU  
21 PIS  23 TAU  22 TAU  23 CAN  23 LEO  23 LIB  23 SCO  21 SAG  22 AQU  21 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  
24 ARI  25 GEM  25 GEM  26 LEO  25 VIR  26 SCO  25 SAG  23 CAP  24 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  25 CAN  
26 TAU  28 CAN  27 CAN  28 VIR  27 LIB  28 SAG  27 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  28 CAN  27 LEO  
29 GEM          29 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  30 CAP  29 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  29 GEM  30 LEO  30 VIR  
31 CAN          31 VIR          31 SAG                  30 ARI          31 CAN                  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 7 7



2092
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 LIB   1 SAG   2 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI   1 TAU   3 CAN   2 LEO   3 LIB   2 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU  
3 SCO   3 CAP   4 AQU   5 ARI   4 TAU   3 GEM   5 LEO   4 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG   3 CAP   4 PIS  
5 SAG   6 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   7 GEM   6 CAN   8 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   6 CAP   5 AQU   6 ARI  
7 CAP   8 PIS   8 ARI  10 GEM   9 CAN   8 LEO  10 LIB   9 SCO   9 CAP   8 AQU   7 PIS   9 TAU  
9 AQU  10 ARI  11 TAU  12 CAN  12 LEO  11 VIR  12 SCO  11 SAG  11 AQU  11 PIS   9 ARI  11 GEM  

11 PIS  13 TAU  13 GEM  15 LEO  14 VIR  13 LIB  14 SAG  13 CAP  13 PIS  13 ARI  12 TAU  14 CAN  
14 ARI  15 GEM  16 CAN  17 VIR  17 LIB  15 SCO  16 CAP  15 AQU  16 ARI  15 TAU  14 GEM  16 LEO  
16 TAU  18 CAN  18 LEO  19 LIB  19 SCO  17 SAG  18 AQU  17 PIS  18 TAU  18 GEM  17 CAN  19 VIR  
19 GEM  20 LEO  21 VIR  21 SCO  21 SAG  19 CAP  21 PIS  19 ARI  20 GEM  20 CAN  19 LEO  21 LIB  
21 CAN  22 VIR  23 LIB  23 SAG  23 CAP  21 AQU  23 ARI  22 TAU  23 CAN  23 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  
24 LEO  24 LIB  25 SCO  25 CAP  25 AQU  23 PIS  25 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  25 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  
26 VIR  26 SCO  27 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  25 ARI  28 GEM  27 CAN  28 VIR  27 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  
28 LIB  29 SAG  29 CAP  30 PIS  29 ARI  28 TAU  30 CAN  29 LEO  30 LIB  30 SCO  28 SAG  29 AQU  
30 SCO          31 AQU                  30 GEM          31 VIR                  30 CAP  31 PIS  

2093
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
3 ARI   1 TAU   1 TAU   2 CAN   2 LEO   1 VIR   3 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM  
5 TAU   4 GEM   3 GEM   5 LEO   4 VIR   3 LIB   5 SAG   3 CAP   4 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   4 CAN  
8 GEM   6 CAN   6 CAN   7 VIR   7 LIB   5 SCO   7 CAP   5 AQU   6 ARI   5 TAU   6 CAN   6 LEO  

10 CAN   9 LEO   8 LEO   9 LIB   9 SCO   7 SAG   9 AQU   7 PIS   8 TAU   8 GEM   9 LEO   9 VIR  
13 LEO  11 VIR  11 VIR  12 SCO  11 SAG   9 CAP  11 PIS   9 ARI  10 GEM  10 CAN  11 VIR  11 LIB  
15 VIR  14 LIB  13 LIB  14 SAG  13 CAP  11 AQU  13 ARI  12 TAU  13 CAN  13 LEO  14 LIB  14 SCO  
17 LIB  16 SCO  15 SCO  16 CAP  15 AQU  13 PIS  15 TAU  14 GEM  15 LEO  15 VIR  16 SCO  16 SAG  
20 SCO  18 SAG  17 SAG  18 AQU  17 PIS  16 ARI  18 GEM  16 CAN  18 VIR  18 LIB  18 SAG  18 CAP  
22 SAG  20 CAP  19 CAP  20 PIS  19 ARI  18 TAU  20 CAN  19 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  
24 CAP  22 AQU  22 AQU  22 ARI  22 TAU  20 GEM  23 LEO  21 VIR  22 SCO  22 SAG  22 AQU  22 PIS  
26 AQU  24 PIS  24 PIS  24 TAU  24 GEM  23 CAN  25 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  24 CAP  25 PIS  24 ARI  
28 PIS  27 ARI  26 ARI  27 GEM  27 CAN  25 LEO  28 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  26 AQU  27 ARI  26 TAU  
30 ARI          28 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  28 VIR  30 SCO  28 SAG  29 AQU  28 PIS  29 TAU  29 GEM  

31 GEM                  30 LIB          31 CAP          31 ARI          31 CAN  

2094
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
3 LEO   1 VIR   1 VIR   2 SCO   1 SAG   2 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   3 CAN   2 LEO   1 VIR   1 LIB  
5 VIR   4 LIB   3 LIB   4 SAG   4 CAP   4 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   5 LEO   5 VIR   4 LIB   4 SCO  
8 LIB   6 SCO   5 SCO   6 CAP   6 AQU   6 ARI   6 TAU   6 CAN   8 VIR   7 LIB   6 SCO   6 SAG  

10 SCO   9 SAG   8 SAG   8 AQU   8 PIS   8 TAU   8 GEM   9 LEO  10 LIB  10 SCO   9 SAG   8 CAP  
12 SAG  11 CAP  10 CAP  11 PIS  10 ARI  11 GEM  10 CAN  11 VIR  13 SCO  12 SAG  11 CAP  10 AQU  
14 CAP  13 AQU  12 AQU  13 ARI  12 TAU  13 CAN  13 LEO  14 LIB  15 SAG  15 CAP  13 AQU  12 PIS  
16 AQU  15 PIS  14 PIS  15 TAU  14 GEM  15 LEO  15 VIR  16 SCO  17 CAP  17 AQU  15 PIS  15 ARI  
18 PIS  17 ARI  16 ARI  17 GEM  17 CAN  18 VIR  18 LIB  19 SAG  20 AQU  19 PIS  17 ARI  17 TAU  
20 ARI  19 TAU  18 TAU  19 CAN  19 LEO  20 LIB  20 SCO  21 CAP  22 PIS  21 ARI  19 TAU  19 GEM  
22 TAU  21 GEM  20 GEM  22 LEO  22 VIR  23 SCO  22 SAG  23 AQU  24 ARI  23 TAU  21 GEM  21 CAN  
25 GEM  24 CAN  23 CAN  24 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  25 PIS  26 TAU  25 GEM  24 CAN  23 LEO  
27 CAN  26 LEO  25 LEO  27 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  27 ARI  28 GEM  27 CAN  26 LEO  26 VIR  
30 LEO          28 VIR  29 SCO  29 SAG  29 AQU  29 PIS  29 TAU  30 CAN  30 LEO  29 VIR  28 LIB  

30 LIB          31 CAP          31 ARI  31 GEM                          31 SCO  

2095
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 SAG   1 CAP   3 AQU   1 PIS   2 TAU   1 GEM   3 LEO   1 VIR   3 SCO   2 SAG   1 CAP   1 AQU  
5 CAP   3 AQU   5 PIS   3 ARI   4 GEM   3 CAN   5 VIR   4 LIB   5 SAG   5 CAP   3 AQU   3 PIS  
7 AQU   5 PIS   7 ARI   5 TAU   7 CAN   5 LEO   7 LIB   6 SCO   8 CAP   7 AQU   6 PIS   5 ARI  
9 PIS   7 ARI   9 TAU   7 GEM   9 LEO   8 VIR  10 SCO   9 SAG  10 AQU   9 PIS   8 ARI   7 TAU  

11 ARI   9 TAU  11 GEM   9 CAN  11 VIR  10 LIB  12 SAG  11 CAP  12 PIS  11 ARI  10 TAU   9 GEM  
13 TAU  11 GEM  13 CAN  12 LEO  14 LIB  13 SCO  15 CAP  13 AQU  14 ARI  13 TAU  12 GEM  11 CAN  
15 GEM  14 CAN  15 LEO  14 VIR  16 SCO  15 SAG  17 AQU  15 PIS  16 TAU  15 GEM  14 CAN  13 LEO  
17 CAN  16 LEO  18 VIR  17 LIB  19 SAG  17 CAP  19 PIS  17 ARI  18 GEM  17 CAN  16 LEO  16 VIR  
20 LEO  19 VIR  20 LIB  19 SCO  21 CAP  20 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  20 CAN  20 LEO  18 VIR  18 LIB  
22 VIR  21 LIB  23 SCO  22 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  23 TAU  22 GEM  22 LEO  22 VIR  21 LIB  21 SCO  
25 LIB  24 SCO  25 SAG  24 CAP  26 PIS  24 ARI  25 GEM  24 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  23 SCO  23 SAG  
27 SCO  26 SAG  28 CAP  26 AQU  28 ARI  26 TAU  28 CAN  26 LEO  27 LIB  27 SCO  26 SAG  26 CAP  
30 SAG  28 CAP  30 AQU  28 PIS  30 TAU  28 GEM  30 LEO  29 VIR  30 SCO  30 SAG  28 CAP  28 AQU  

30 ARI          30 CAN          31 LIB                          30 PIS  

4 7 8 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



2096
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   3 LIB   1 SCO   1 SAG   3 AQU   1 PIS   1 ARI   1 GEM   1 CAN  
3 TAU   4 CAN   4 LEO   3 VIR   5 SCO   4 SAG   4 CAP   5 PIS   3 ARI   3 TAU   3 CAN   3 LEO  
6 GEM   6 LEO   7 VIR   5 LIB   8 SAG   7 CAP   6 AQU   7 ARI   5 TAU   5 GEM   5 LEO   5 VIR  
8 CAN   9 VIR   9 LIB   8 SCO  10 CAP   9 AQU   9 PIS   9 TAU   7 GEM   7 CAN   7 VIR   7 LIB  

10 LEO  11 LIB  12 SCO  11 SAG  13 AQU  11 PIS  11 ARI  11 GEM  10 CAN   9 LEO  10 LIB  10 SCO  
12 VIR  13 SCO  14 SAG  13 CAP  15 PIS  13 ARI  13 TAU  13 CAN  12 LEO  11 VIR  12 SCO  12 SAG  
15 LIB  16 SAG  17 CAP  15 AQU  17 ARI  16 TAU  15 GEM  16 LEO  14 VIR  14 LIB  15 SAG  15 CAP  
17 SCO  18 CAP  19 AQU  18 PIS  19 TAU  18 GEM  17 CAN  18 VIR  16 LIB  16 SCO  17 CAP  17 AQU  
20 SAG  21 AQU  21 PIS  20 ARI  21 GEM  20 CAN  19 LEO  20 LIB  19 SCO  19 SAG  20 AQU  20 PIS  
22 CAP  23 PIS  23 ARI  22 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  21 VIR  22 SCO  21 SAG  21 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  
24 AQU  25 ARI  25 TAU  24 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  24 LIB  25 SAG  24 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  
26 PIS  27 TAU  27 GEM  26 CAN  28 VIR  26 LIB  26 SCO  27 CAP  26 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  26 GEM  
29 ARI  29 GEM  29 CAN  28 LEO  30 LIB  29 SCO  29 SAG  30 AQU  29 PIS  28 ARI  29 GEM  28 CAN  
31 TAU                  30 VIR                  31 CAP                  30 TAU          30 LEO  

2097
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 VIR   2 SCO   2 SCO   3 CAP   3 AQU   1 PIS   1 ARI   2 GEM   2 LEO   2 VIR   2 SCO   2 SAG  
3 LIB   5 SAG   4 SAG   5 AQU   5 PIS   4 ARI   3 TAU   4 CAN   4 VIR   4 LIB   5 SAG   5 CAP  
6 SCO   7 CAP   7 CAP   8 PIS   7 ARI   6 TAU   5 GEM   6 LEO   6 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   7 AQU  
8 SAG  10 AQU   9 AQU  10 ARI  10 TAU   8 GEM   7 CAN   8 VIR   9 SCO   8 SAG  10 AQU  10 PIS  

11 CAP  12 PIS  11 PIS  12 TAU  12 GEM  10 CAN   9 LEO  10 LIB  11 SAG  11 CAP  12 PIS  12 ARI  
13 AQU  14 ARI  14 ARI  14 GEM  14 CAN  12 LEO  11 VIR  12 SCO  14 CAP  13 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  
16 PIS  17 TAU  16 TAU  16 CAN  16 LEO  14 VIR  14 LIB  15 SAG  16 AQU  16 PIS  17 TAU  16 GEM  
18 ARI  19 GEM  18 GEM  18 LEO  18 VIR  16 LIB  16 SCO  17 CAP  19 PIS  18 ARI  19 GEM  18 CAN  
20 TAU  21 CAN  20 CAN  21 VIR  20 LIB  19 SCO  18 SAG  20 AQU  21 ARI  20 TAU  21 CAN  20 LEO  
22 GEM  23 LEO  22 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  21 SAG  21 CAP  22 PIS  23 TAU  23 GEM  23 LEO  22 VIR  
24 CAN  25 VIR  24 VIR  25 SCO  25 SAG  24 CAP  24 AQU  25 ARI  25 GEM  25 CAN  25 VIR  25 LIB  
27 LEO  27 LIB  27 LIB  28 SAG  27 CAP  26 AQU  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 CAN  27 LEO  27 LIB  27 SCO  
29 VIR          29 SCO  30 CAP  30 AQU  29 PIS  28 ARI  29 GEM  30 LEO  29 VIR  30 SCO  29 SAG  
31 LIB          31 SAG                          31 TAU  31 CAN          31 LIB                  

2098
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 CAP   2 PIS   1 PIS   2 TAU   2 GEM   2 LEO   2 VIR   2 SCO   1 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   2 ARI  
3 AQU   5 ARI   4 ARI   5 GEM   4 CAN   5 VIR   4 LIB   5 SAG   3 CAP   3 AQU   5 ARI   4 TAU  
6 PIS   7 TAU   6 TAU   7 CAN   6 LEO   7 LIB   6 SCO   7 CAP   6 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   7 GEM  
8 ARI   9 GEM   8 GEM   9 LEO   8 VIR   9 SCO   9 SAG  10 AQU   8 PIS   8 ARI   9 GEM   9 CAN  

11 TAU  11 CAN  11 CAN  11 VIR  10 LIB  11 SAG  11 CAP  12 PIS  11 ARI  11 TAU  11 CAN  11 LEO  
13 GEM  13 LEO  13 LEO  13 LIB  13 SCO  14 CAP  13 AQU  15 ARI  13 TAU  13 GEM  14 LEO  13 VIR  
15 CAN  15 VIR  15 VIR  15 SCO  15 SAG  16 AQU  16 PIS  17 TAU  16 GEM  15 CAN  16 VIR  15 LIB  
17 LEO  17 LIB  17 LIB  18 SAG  17 CAP  19 PIS  18 ARI  20 GEM  18 CAN  17 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  
19 VIR  20 SCO  19 SCO  20 CAP  20 AQU  21 ARI  21 TAU  22 CAN  20 LEO  19 VIR  20 SCO  20 SAG  
21 LIB  22 SAG  21 SAG  23 AQU  22 PIS  24 TAU  23 GEM  24 LEO  22 VIR  22 LIB  22 SAG  22 CAP  
23 SCO  24 CAP  24 CAP  25 PIS  25 ARI  26 GEM  25 CAN  26 VIR  24 LIB  24 SCO  24 CAP  24 AQU  
26 SAG  27 AQU  26 AQU  27 ARI  27 TAU  28 CAN  27 LEO  28 LIB  26 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  27 PIS  
28 CAP          29 PIS  30 TAU  29 GEM  30 LEO  29 VIR  30 SCO  28 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  29 ARI  
31 AQU          31 ARI          31 CAN          31 LIB                  31 AQU                  

2099
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC    
1 TAU   2 CAN   1 CAN   2 VIR   1 LIB   2 SAG   1 CAP   2 PIS   1 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO  
3 GEM   4 LEO   3 LEO   4 LIB   3 SCO   4 CAP   3 AQU   5 ARI   3 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   4 VIR  
5 CAN   6 VIR   5 VIR   6 SCO   5 SAG   6 AQU   6 PIS   7 TAU   6 GEM   6 CAN   6 VIR   6 LIB  
7 LEO   8 LIB   7 LIB   8 SAG   7 CAP   8 PIS   8 ARI  10 GEM   8 CAN   8 LEO   8 LIB   8 SCO  
9 VIR  10 SCO   9 SCO  10 CAP  10 AQU  11 ARI  11 TAU  12 CAN  10 LEO  10 VIR  10 SCO  10 SAG  

11 LIB  12 SAG  11 SAG  12 AQU  12 PIS  14 TAU  13 GEM  14 LEO  13 VIR  12 LIB  12 SAG  12 CAP  
13 SCO  14 CAP  14 CAP  15 PIS  15 ARI  16 GEM  16 CAN  16 VIR  15 LIB  14 SCO  15 CAP  14 AQU  
16 SAG  17 AQU  16 AQU  17 ARI  17 TAU  18 CAN  18 LEO  18 LIB  17 SCO  16 SAG  17 AQU  17 PIS  
18 CAP  19 PIS  19 PIS  20 TAU  20 GEM  20 LEO  20 VIR  20 SCO  19 SAG  18 CAP  19 PIS  19 ARI  
21 AQU  22 ARI  21 ARI  22 GEM  22 CAN  22 VIR  22 LIB  22 SAG  21 CAP  20 AQU  22 ARI  22 TAU  
23 PIS  24 TAU  24 TAU  25 CAN  24 LEO  24 LIB  24 SCO  25 CAP  23 AQU  23 PIS  24 TAU  24 GEM  
26 ARI  27 GEM  26 GEM  27 LEO  26 VIR  27 SCO  26 SAG  27 AQU  26 PIS  25 ARI  27 GEM  26 CAN  
28 TAU          28 CAN  29 VIR  28 LIB  29 SAG  28 CAP  29 PIS  28 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  29 LEO  
30 GEM          31 LEO          30 SCO          31 AQU                  30 GEM          31 VIR  

M o o n  Ta b l e s • 4 7 9



2100
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
2 LIB   2 SAG   2 SAG   2 AQU   2 PIS   1 ARI   1 TAU   2 CAN   1 LEO   2 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP  
4 SCO   5 CAP   4 CAP   5 PIS   5 ARI   3 TAU   3 GEM   4 LEO   3 VIR   4 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU  
6 SAG   7 AQU   6 AQU   7 ARI   7 TAU   6 GEM   6 CAN   6 VIR   5 LIB   6 SAG   5 CAP   7 PIS  
8 CAP   9 PIS   9 PIS  10 TAU  10 GEM   8 CAN   8 LEO   9 LIB   7 SCO   8 CAP   7 AQU   9 ARI  

11 AQU  12 ARI  11 ARI  12 GEM  12 CAN  11 LEO  10 VIR  11 SCO   9 SAG  11 AQU   9 PIS  11 TAU  
13 PIS  14 TAU  14 TAU  15 CAN  14 LEO  13 VIR  12 LIB  13 SAG  11 CAP  13 PIS  12 ARI  14 GEM  
15 ARI  17 GEM  16 GEM  17 LEO  17 VIR  15 LIB  14 SCO  15 CAP  13 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  16 CAN  
18 TAU  19 CAN  19 CAN  19 VIR  19 LIB  17 SCO  17 SAG  17 AQU  16 PIS  18 TAU  17 GEM  19 LEO  
20 GEM  21 LEO  21 LEO  21 LIB  21 SCO  19 SAG  19 CAP  19 PIS  18 ARI  20 GEM  19 CAN  21 VIR  
23 CAN  24 VIR  23 VIR  23 SCO  23 SAG  21 CAP  21 AQU  22 ARI  21 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  23 LIB  
25 LEO  26 LIB  25 LIB  25 SAG  25 CAP  23 AQU  23 PIS  24 TAU  23 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  26 SCO  
27 VIR  28 SCO  27 SCO  27 CAP  27 AQU  26 PIS  25 ARI  27 GEM  26 CAN  28 VIR  26 LIB  28 SAG  
29 LIB          29 SAG  30 AQU  29 PIS  28 ARI  28 TAU  29 CAN  28 LEO  30 LIB  28 SCO  30 CAP  
31 SCO          31 CAP                          30 GEM          30 VIR          30 SAG          

2101
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN     JUL     AUG     SEP     OCT     NOV     DEC     
1 AQU   2 ARI   1 ARI   2 GEM   2 CAN   1 LEO   3 LIB   1 SCO   2 CAP   1 AQU   2 ARI   1 TAU  
3 PIS   4 TAU   3 TAU   5 CAN   5 LEO   3 VIR   5 SCO   3 SAG   4 AQU   3 PIS   4 TAU   4 GEM  
5 ARI   7 GEM   6 GEM   7 LEO   7 VIR   6 LIB   7 SAG   5 CAP   6 PIS   6 ARI   7 GEM   6 CAN  
8 TAU   9 CAN   8 CAN  10 VIR   9 LIB   8 SCO   9 CAP   7 AQU   8 ARI   8 TAU   9 CAN   9 LEO  

10 GEM  11 LEO  11 LEO  12 LIB  11 SCO  10 SAG  11 AQU  10 PIS  10 TAU  10 GEM  12 LEO  11 VIR  
13 CAN  14 VIR  13 VIR  14 SCO  13 SAG  12 CAP  13 PIS  12 ARI  13 GEM  13 CAN  14 VIR  14 LIB  
15 LEO  16 LIB  15 LIB  16 SAG  15 CAP  14 AQU  15 ARI  14 TAU  15 CAN  15 LEO  16 LIB  16 SCO  
17 VIR  18 SCO  17 SCO  18 CAP  17 AQU  16 PIS  18 TAU  17 GEM  18 LEO  18 VIR  19 SCO  18 SAG  
20 LIB  20 SAG  19 SAG  20 AQU  19 PIS  18 ARI  20 GEM  19 CAN  20 VIR  20 LIB  21 SAG  20 CAP  
22 SCO  22 CAP  22 CAP  22 PIS  22 ARI  21 TAU  23 CAN  22 LEO  23 LIB  22 SCO  23 CAP  22 AQU  
24 SAG  24 AQU  24 AQU  25 ARI  24 TAU  23 GEM  25 LEO  24 VIR  25 SCO  24 SAG  25 AQU  24 PIS  
26 CAP  27 PIS  26 PIS  27 TAU  27 GEM  26 CAN  28 VIR  26 LIB  27 SAG  26 CAP  27 PIS  26 ARI  
28 AQU          28 ARI  30 GEM  29 CAN  28 LEO  30 LIB  28 SCO  29 CAP  28 AQU  29 ARI  29 TAU  
30 PIS          31 TAU                  30 VIR          31 SAG          31 PIS                  

4 8 0 • M o o n  Ta b l e s



8
What Sign Is Your Ascendant?

These unique Ascendant Tables , specially de- How to Use the Following Ascendant Tables
vised for this book by the astrologer Capel McCutcheon,

enable you, simply by laying down two rulers, to ascertain To aid in finding your Ascendant, let us find the Ascen-
with reasonable accuracy what your Rising sign is. dant of Oprah Winfrey, whose chart I use in this book as a

You will see that there are two tables: one for 40 Degrees special example in interpreting a horoscope. (See pages 322 et
North latitude, and one for 30 Degrees North latitude. Both seq.) Oprah was born January 29, 1954, at 4:30 a.m., in
tables will give reasonable accuracy within a 10-degree span. Kosciusko, Mississippi.
Thus the 40 Degrees North Table can be used for birthplace 1. First decide if your birthplace is in the 30 Degrees
latitudes from 35 Degrees North to 45 Degrees North. These North Table or the 40 Degrees North Table. Oprah Winfrey
latitudes roughly cover any birthplace in the top half of the was born in Mississippi, an area represented by the 30 De-
United States, including such cities as New York, San Fran- grees North Table.
cisco, Washington, D.C., Chicago, Denver, Philadelphia, St. 2. Now place a ruler along the line that most closely rep-
Louis, Minneapolis, and Seattle. The 30 Degrees North Table resents the time of your birth (listed on the left-hand side of
can be used for birthplace latitudes from 25 Degrees North to the page). You will notice that for each hour of time there are
35 Degrees North, an area roughly covering the bottom half five squares of graph, which means each graph-square repre-
of the United States. This area includes such cities as Los An- sents 12 minutes. Oprah was born at 4:30 a.m.; she would
geles, Miami, New Orleans, Houston, Dallas, Memphis, At- place a ruler across the page in the middle of the third square
lanta, and San Diego. (Check an atlas if you are not sure after 4:00 a.m.
which of these two areas your birthplace is in.) 3. The next step is to place a second ruler down the line

Of course, you may have been born in London or Rio de that most closely represents the day of the month of your
Janeiro or Bangkok, in which case your birthplace is not cov- birth (listed along the top of the page). You will notice that
ered by these areas. If you were not born in the United States, for each month there are 15 squares of graph, which means
the simplest way of discovering your Ascendant is to have a each graph-square represents about two days. Oprah was
computer calculate it for you. Use the enclosed CD-ROM. In born on January 29; she would place a ruler down the page in
moments, you’ll know what sign your Ascendant is—and in the middle of the 15th square (the final square) of January.
what degree of this sign it is. You can also surf the web to find 4. The last step is to look at the point where the two rulers
sites that will cast your chart for free. meet. This point will fall into a specific diagonal band on the

In addition, on page 484 I offer a shortcut method of ap- graph that is clearly labeled with the name of an astrological
proximating your Ascendant. If you were born outside the sign. That sign is your Ascendant.
U.S. and cannot use these Ascendant tables—and you have no For Oprah Winfrey’s birth time and birthdate, the two
access to a computer—this shortcut method will provide your rulers meet in the band marked Sagittarius. Therefore, Sagit-
approximate Ascendant. But remember, it’s just approximate. tarius is Oprah’s Ascendant.

A s ce n da n t  Ta b l e s • 4 8 1



4 8 2 • A s ce n da n t  Ta b l e s



A s ce n da n t  Ta b l e s • 4 8 3



8
A Shortcut Method of Approximating Your Ascendant

The follow ing method will give you a simple way 4. The sign that you write down in Segment 1 is your approx-
of finding your Ascendant. Keep in mind that this short- imate Ascendant.

cut method is a gauge that does not allow for differences in
latitude at the place you were born, time changes, etc. Nor Example: Person born 7:56 P.M. with Sun in Pisces.*

does it give you the degree of your Rising sign. 1. Time of birth, 7:56 P.M., fits into Segment 6.
2. Pisces (Sun sign) is written down in Segment 6.
3. Following the order of the zodiac, the signs of Aries, Tau-

rus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, and Libra are written in
Segments 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 1 of the wheel.

4. The sign of Libra appears in Segment 1. Libra is this per-
son’s Ascendant.

SHORTCUT METHOD

1. What time of day were you born? Locate the segment of
the above wheel that contains your birth time.

2. Write the name of your Sun sign in that segment.
3. Going counterclockwise around the wheel, write down in

each segment the signs of the zodiac in the order that they
follow your Sun sign. (See example below.)

*This person is Elizabeth Taylor, born with the Sun in Pisces and Li-
bra rising.

4 8 4 • A s ce n da n t  Ta b l e s




Where Is Your Mercury?

The following Mercury Tables will tell you what sign Example: You were born August 15, 1962. Locate the year
Mercury was in on the day of your birth. 1962 and the month AUG. You will see that on the 10th of

First locate the year you were born. Next find the month August Mercury moved into Virgo, and on the 29th of Au-
of your birth (on the left-hand side of the page) and place a gust it moved into Libra. Therefore, on August 15th, your
ruler across the page under your birth month. birthday, Mercury was in Virgo.

The tables list for your month every date on which Mer-
cury moved into a new sign.* Thus, you can quickly ascertain Note: If you look carefully at the Mercury Tables, you will
what sign Mercury was in on the day of your birth. see that from time to time Mercury enters a new sign and

when it moves again reenters a previous sign. For example, in
Example: You were born June 1, 1970. Locate the year 1970 the year 1984 Mercury entered Aries on March 14, entered

and the month JUN. You will see that on the 13th of June in Taurus on March 31, entered Aries again on April 25, and en-
1970 Mercury moved into Gemini. Since you were born on the tered Taurus again in May 15. This backward transit of a
1st of June, look at the previous month to find Mercury’s posi- planet is called retrograde motion, a term fully described in
tion. You will see that Mercury was in Taurus throughout May An Astrologer’s Lexicon, page 417. You will notice this phe-
and did not move into Gemini until the 13th of June. There- nomenon from time to time in all the Planetary Tables be-
fore, on June 1st, your birthday, Mercury was in Taurus. cause all the planets, except for the Sun and the Moon, are ret-

rograde at one time or another.

*If you were born on a day on which Mercury moved to a new sign, you should use the enclosed CD-ROM to cast your chart. At the time of day you
were born, Mercury might still have been in the previous sign because it had not yet entered the new sign. Your computer chart will tell you the exact sign
your Mercury is in as well as the exact degree of this sign.

M e r c u ry  Ta b l e s • 4 8 5



1900    1901    1902    1903    1904    1905    1906    1907    1908    1909    1910    1911    1912    1913    1914
JAN   8 CAP   2 CAP  13 AQU   6 AQU   2 AQU     CAP  12 CAP   6 CAP  18 AQU  10 AQU   3 AQU     CAP  15 CAP  10 CAP   3 CAP  

28 AQU  21 AQU                  13 CAP                  26 AQU                  30 CAP                  29 AQU  22 AQU  
FEB  14 PIS   7 PIS   1 PIS     AQU  15 AQU   9 AQU   2 AQU  12 PIS   4 PIS     AQU  15 AQU  12 AQU   6 AQU  16 PIS   8 PIS  

18 AQU                  27 PIS  19 PIS                                          25 PIS                  
MAR   3 ARI     PIS  18 PIS  14 PIS   7 PIS  15 ARI   7 ARI   3 ARI     PIS  17 PIS  11 PIS   4 PIS  11 ARI   4 ARI     PIS  

29 PIS                          23 ARI                  13 PIS                  29 ARI  20 ARI                          
APR  16 ARI  15 ARI   9 ARI   1 ARI   7 TAU   1 TAU     ARI  18 ARI  12 ARI   5 ARI  12 TAU   5 TAU     ARI   7 PIS  16 ARI  

25 TAU  16 TAU          28 ARI                  29 TAU  21 TAU  30 GEM                  13 ARI          
MAY  10 TAU   3 TAU   9 GEM   2 GEM     TAU  15 TAU  14 TAU   8 TAU  13 GEM   5 GEM     GEM     TAU  16 TAU  12 TAU   4 TAU  

26 GEM  17 GEM  29 CAN                          31 GEM  23 GEM  29 CAN                                  27 GEM  19 GEM  
JUN   9 CAN   1 CAN  26 GEM     GEM  14 GEM   8 GEM  14 CAN   6 CAN     CAN     GEM   1 TAU  12 GEM   5 GEM  10 CAN   3 CAN  

27 LEO                                  23 CAN  30 LEO  27 LEO                  11 GEM  28 CAN  19 CAN  28 LEO          
JUL     LEO     CAN  13 CAN  10 CAN   1 CAN   7 LEO     LEO  26 CAN     CAN  13 CAN   6 CAN  12 LEO   4 LEO     LEO     CAN  

25 LEO  15 LEO  27 VIR                          29 LEO  21 LEO  30 VIR  26 VIR                  
AUG     LEO   9 LEO   2 LEO   9 VIR   1 VIR     VIR     LEO  12 LEO   6 LEO  13 VIR   5 VIR     VIR  20 LEO     LEO  11 LEO  

25 VIR  17 VIR  29 LIB  28 LIB                  31 VIR  21 VIR  31 LIB  27 LIB                          27 VIR  
SEP   2 VIR  11 LIB   3 LIB     LIB   7 VIR     VIR   7 VIR  16 LIB   7 LIB     LIB  28 VIR     VIR  10 VIR   4 VIR  12 LIB  

18 LIB  30 SCO  28 SCO                          23 LIB          28 SCO                          28 LIB  20 LIB          
OCT   7 SCO     SCO  15 LIB     LIB   8 LIB   1 LIB  11 SCO   4 SCO     SCO     LIB  11 LIB   6 LIB  15 SCO   8 SCO   2 SCO  

30 SAG                          26 SCO  19 SCO                                  31 SCO  24 SCO          30 SAG          
NOV  18 SCO     SCO  10 SCO   3 SCO  14 SAG   7 SAG   1 SAG     SCO   1 LIB   7 SCO  19 SAG  11 SAG   4 SAG  23 SCO     SCO  

29 SAG  22 SAG                                  11 SCO  26 SAG                                          
DEC  12 SAG   6 SAG  18 CAP  11 CAP   4 CAP   1 CAP   6 SCO  10 SAG   3 SAG  15 CAP   8 CAP   2 CAP     SAG  13 SAG   7 SAG  

26 CAP                           9 SAG  12 SAG  30 CAP  22 CAP                  27 SAG                  27 CAP  

1915    1916    1917    1918    1919    1920    1921    1922    1923    1924    1925    1926    1927    1928    1929
JAN  14 AQU   7 AQU   1 AQU     CAP  13 CAP   8 CAP  18 AQU  11 AQU   4 AQU     CAP  14 CAP  11 CAP   4 CAP  16 AQU   8 AQU  

17 CAP                  27 AQU                                          31 AQU  23 AQU                  
FEB   2 PIS     AQU  14 AQU  10 AQU   3 AQU  13 PIS   5 PIS   1 PIS   6 CAP  13 AQU   7 AQU  17 PIS   9 PIS   3 PIS     AQU  

23 AQU                          21 PIS                   8 AQU  13 AQU          25 PIS                  29 AQU          
MAR  19 PIS  14 PIS   8 PIS   1 PIS   9 ARI   2 ARI     PIS  18 PIS  12 PIS   5 PIS  13 ARI   5 ARI     PIS  17 PIS  15 PIS  

25 ARI  17 ARI          19 PIS                  30 ARI  21 ARI                                          
APR  10 ARI   2 ARI   9 TAU   2 TAU     ARI  17 ARI  13 ARI   7 ARI  14 TAU   5 TAU   1 TAU     ARI  17 ARI  10 ARI   3 ARI  

26 TAU  17 TAU                                          22 TAU                  15 ARI                  27 TAU  18 TAU  
MAY  10 GEM   2 GEM     TAU     TAU  15 TAU   8 TAU   1 TAU   7 GEM   1 GEM     TAU  16 TAU  13 TAU   6 TAU  11 GEM   3 GEM  

29 CAN                                  23 GEM  15 GEM  31 CAN                          29 GEM  20 GEM  28 CAN          
31 CAN                                                                  

JUN     CAN     GEM  14 GEM   9 GEM   2 GEM   6 CAN     CAN  10 GEM     GEM  12 GEM   6 GEM  12 CAN   4 CAN     CAN     GEM  
24 CAN  16 CAN  26 LEO                          29 CAN  20 CAN  29 LEO  28 LEO                  

JUL     CAN  10 CAN   3 CAN   9 LEO   1 LEO     LEO     CAN  13 CAN   8 CAN  13 LEO   5 LEO     LEO  13 CAN     CAN  11 CAN  
25 LEO  17 LEO  27 VIR                          31 LEO  22 LEO  30 VIR  26 VIR                          27 LEO  

AUG   4 LEO   9 VIR   2 VIR     VIR     LEO   2 CAN   8 LEO  15 VIR   7 VIR     VIR  27 LEO     LEO  11 LEO   4 LEO  11 VIR  
18 VIR  28 LIB  26 LIB                  10 LEO  23 VIR          27 LIB                          28 VIR  19 VIR  30 LIB  

31 VIR                                                                          
SEP   5 LIB     LIB  14 VIR     VIR   8 VIR  16 LIB   8 LIB   1 LIB     LIB     VIR  11 VIR   5 VIR  13 LIB   5 LIB     LIB  

28 SCO                          25 LIB          29 SCO                          29 LIB  21 LIB          27 SCO          
OCT  20 LIB     LIB   9 LIB   3 LIB  13 SCO   5 SCO     SCO   1 SCO   4 VIR   6 LIB  16 SCO   9 SCO   3 SCO  24 LIB     LIB  

28 SCO  20 SCO          30 SAG           4 LIB  11 LIB  24 SCO          31 SAG                          
NOV  11 SCO   4 SCO  15 SAG   8 SAG   2 SAG  10 SCO     SCO   8 SCO   1 SCO  12 SAG   5 SAG  28 SCO     SCO  11 SCO   5 SCO  

22 SAG                                          27 SAG  20 SAG                                          24 SAG  
DEC   1 SAG  12 CAP   5 CAP   1 CAP     SAG  10 SAG   4 SAG  16 CAP   9 CAP   2 CAP     SAG  13 SAG   9 SAG   1 SAG  13 CAP  

20 CAP                  15 SAG          31 CAP  24 CAP                  31 SAG                  28 CAP  20 CAP          

1930    1931    1932    1933    1934    1935    1936    1937    1938    1939    1940    1941    1942    1943    1944
JAN   2 AQU     CAP  14 CAP   8 CAP   1 CAP  12 AQU   5 AQU   1 AQU   6 SAG  12 CAP   6 CAP  16 AQU   9 AQU   3 AQU     CAP  

22 CAP                  27 AQU  20 AQU                   9 CAP  12 CAP          25 AQU                  27 CAP          
FEB  15 AQU  11 AQU   4 AQU  14 PIS   6 PIS   1 PIS     AQU  13 AQU   8 AQU   1 AQU  11 PIS   3 PIS     AQU  15 AQU  12 AQU  

22 PIS                  14 AQU                  26 PIS  19 PIS                                          
MAR   9 PIS   2 PIS   9 ARI   3 ARI     PIS  18 PIS  13 PIS   6 PIS  14 ARI   7 ARI   4 ARI   6 AQU  16 PIS  11 PIS   2 PIS  

26 ARI  18 ARI          25 PIS                  31 ARI  22 ARI                   7 PIS  16 PIS          28 ARI  19 ARI  
APR  10 TAU   3 TAU     ARI  17 ARI  14 ARI   8 ARI  14 TAU   6 TAU   1 TAU     ARI  16 ARI  12 ARI   5 ARI  11 TAU   3 TAU  

24 TAU  30 GEM          23 ARI                  28 TAU  20 TAU  30 GEM          
MAY   1 GEM     TAU  15 TAU  10 TAU   2 TAU   8 GEM     GEM     TAU  16 TAU  14 TAU   6 TAU  12 GEM   4 GEM  26 TAU     TAU  

17 TAU                  25 GEM  16 GEM  29 CAN                          30 GEM  21 GEM  29 CAN                          
JUN  14 GEM  11 GEM   2 GEM   8 CAN   1 CAN  20 GEM     GEM  13 GEM   7 GEM  13 CAN   4 CAN     CAN     GEM  13 GEM  11 GEM  

26 CAN  16 CAN  26 LEO                          30 CAN  22 CAN  30 LEO  26 LEO                          26 CAN  
JUL   4 CAN  10 LEO   2 LEO     LEO     CAN  13 CAN   8 CAN  14 LEO   6 LEO     LEO  20 CAN     CAN  12 CAN   6 CAN  11 LEO  

18 LEO  28 VIR  27 VIR                          23 LEO  31 VIR  26 VIR                          28 LEO  20 LEO  28 VIR  
AUG   3 VIR     VIR  10 LEO     LEO   9 LEO   1 LEO   7 VIR     VIR     VIR     LEO  11 LEO   6 LEO  12 VIR   5 VIR     VIR  

26 LIB                          24 VIR  16 VIR  27 LIB                          29 VIR  21 VIR  31 LIB  26 LIB          
SEP  19 VIR     VIR   9 VIR   2 VIR  10 LIB   3 LIB     LIB     VIR   2 LEO   6 VIR  14 LIB   6 LIB     LIB  25 VIR     VIR  

25 LIB  17 LIB  30 SCO  28 SCO                  10 VIR  23 LIB          28 SCO                          
30 LIB                                                  

OCT  10 LIB   4 LIB  13 SCO   6 SCO     SCO  12 LIB     LIB   8 LIB  18 SCO  11 SCO   3 SCO  29 LIB     LIB  11 LIB   4 LIB  
29 SCO  21 SCO          29 SAG                          25 SCO                                          30 SCO  22 SCO  

NOV  17 SAG   9 SAG   2 SAG  15 SCO     SCO   9 SCO   2 SCO  13 SAG   6 SAG   1 SAG     SCO  11 SCO   6 SCO  18 SAG  10 SAG  
29 SAG  20 SAG                                          25 SAG                  

DEC   6 CAP   1 CAP     SAG  11 SAG   6 SAG  18 CAP  10 CAP   3 CAP     SAG   3 SCO   9 SAG   2 SAG  14 CAP   7 CAP   1 CAP  
20 SAG                  25 CAP                                  13 SAG  29 CAP  21 CAP                  23 SAG  

4 8 6 • M e r c u ry  Ta b l e s



1945    1946    1947    1948    1949    1950    1951    1952    1953    1954    1955    1956    1957    1958    1959
JAN  13 CAP   9 CAP   2 CAP  14 AQU   6 AQU   1 AQU     CAP  13 CAP   6 CAP  18 AQU  10 AQU   4 AQU     CAP  14 CAP  10 CAP  

29 AQU  21 AQU                  15 CAP                  25 AQU                                          30 AQU  
FEB   5 AQU  15 PIS   7 PIS   1 PIS     AQU  14 AQU   9 AQU   2 AQU  11 PIS   4 PIS     AQU   2 CAP  12 AQU   6 AQU  16 PIS  

23 PIS                  20 AQU                  28 PIS  20 PIS                          15 AQU          24 PIS          
MAR  11 ARI   4 ARI     PIS  18 PIS  14 PIS   7 PIS  16 ARI   7 ARI   2 ARI     PIS  17 PIS  11 PIS   4 PIS  12 ARI   5 ARI  

24 ARI                  15 PIS                  28 ARI  20 ARI                  
APR     ARI   1 PIS  15 ARI   8 ARI   1 ARI   8 TAU   1 TAU     ARI  17 ARI  13 ARI   6 ARI  12 TAU   4 TAU   2 TAU     ARI  

16 ARI          24 TAU  16 TAU                                  30 TAU  21 TAU  29 GEM          10 ARI          
MAY  16 TAU  11 TAU   4 TAU   8 GEM   1 GEM     TAU   1 ARI  14 TAU   8 TAU  14 GEM   6 GEM     GEM     TAU  16 TAU  12 TAU  

26 GEM  18 GEM  28 CAN                  14 TAU  31 GEM  22 GEM  30 CAN                                  28 GEM  
JUN   4 GEM   9 CAN   2 CAN  28 GEM     GEM  14 GEM   9 GEM  14 CAN   6 CAN     CAN     GEM     GEM  12 GEM   5 GEM  11 CAN  

18 CAN  27 LEO                                  23 CAN  30 LEO  26 LEO                          28 CAN  19 CAN  28 LEO  
JUL   3 LEO     LEO     CAN  11 CAN   9 CAN   2 CAN   8 LEO     LEO  28 CAN     CAN  13 CAN   6 CAN  12 LEO   4 LEO     LEO  

26 VIR                          25 LEO  16 LEO  27 VIR                          30 LEO  21 LEO  29 VIR  26 VIR          
AUG  17 LEO     LEO  10 LEO   2 LEO   9 VIR   1 VIR     VIR     LEO  11 LEO   7 LEO  14 VIR   5 VIR     VIR  23 LEO     LEO  

26 VIR  17 VIR  28 LIB  27 LIB                  30 VIR  22 VIR          26 LIB                          
SEP  10 VIR   3 VIR  11 LIB   3 LIB     LIB  10 VIR     VIR   7 VIR  15 LIB   8 LIB   1 LIB  29 VIR     VIR  10 VIR   4 VIR  

27 LIB  19 LIB          27 SCO                          23 LIB          28 SCO                          28 LIB  20 LIB  
OCT  14 SCO   7 SCO   1 SCO  16 LIB     LIB   9 LIB   2 LIB  11 SCO   4 SCO     SCO     LIB  11 LIB   6 LIB  16 SCO   8 SCO  

30 SAG                          27 SCO  19 SCO          31 SAG                  31 SCO  23 SCO          30 SAG  
NOV   3 SAG  20 SCO     SCO   9 SCO   3 SCO  14 SAG   7 SAG   1 SAG   6 SCO   4 LIB   8 SCO  18 SAG  11 SAG   4 SAG  25 SCO  

29 SAG  22 SAG                                  11 SCO  26 SAG                                  
DEC     SAG  12 SAG   7 SAG  18 CAP  11 CAP   4 CAP   1 CAP     SAG  10 SAG   4 SAG  16 CAP   8 CAP   2 CAP     SAG  13 SAG  

26 CAP                          12 SAG          30 CAP  23 CAP                  28 SAG                  

1960    1961    1962    1963    1964    1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974
JAN   4 CAP  14 AQU   7 AQU   1 AQU     CAP  12 CAP   7 CAP  19 AQU  12 AQU   4 AQU   3 AQU   2 SAG  11 CAP   4 CAP  15 AQU  

23 AQU                  20 CAP                  26 AQU                           4 CAP  13 CAP  31 AQU  23 AQU          
FEB   9 PIS   1 PIS     AQU  15 AQU  10 AQU   3 AQU  13 PIS   5 PIS   1 PIS     AQU  13 AQU   7 AQU  18 PIS   9 PIS   2 PIS  

24 AQU                  29 PIS  21 PIS                  11 AQU                  26 PIS                          
MAR     PIS  18 PIS  15 PIS   9 PIS  16 ARI   8 ARI   2 ARI     PIS  17 PIS  12 PIS   5 PIS  13 ARI   5 ARI     PIS   2 AQU  

25 ARI                  21 PIS                  30 ARI  22 ARI                          17 PIS  
APR  15 ARI  10 ARI   2 ARI   9 TAU   1 TAU     ARI  17 ARI  14 ARI   6 ARI  14 TAU   6 TAU   1 TAU     ARI  16 ARI  11 ARI  

26 TAU  17 TAU                                          22 TAU  30 GEM          18 ARI                  27 TAU  
MAY   4 TAU  10 GEM   3 GEM   2 GEM     TAU  15 TAU   9 TAU   1 TAU   6 GEM     GEM     TAU  16 TAU  12 TAU   5 TAU  11 GEM  

18 GEM  28 CAN          10 TAU                  24 GEM  15 GEM  29 CAN                          29 GEM  20 GEM  29 CAN  
31 CAN                                                          

JUN   2 CAN     CAN     GEM  14 GEM   9 GEM   1 GEM   7 CAN     CAN  13 GEM     GEM  13 GEM   7 GEM  11 CAN   3 CAN     CAN  
30 LEO                          24 CAN  15 CAN  26 LEO                          30 CAN  21 CAN  28 LEO  27 LEO          

JUL   5 CAN     CAN  11 CAN   3 CAN   8 LEO   1 LEO     LEO     CAN  12 CAN   7 CAN  14 LEO   6 LEO     LEO  16 CAN     CAN  
26 LEO  18 LEO  27 VIR  31 VIR                  31 LEO  22 LEO  31 VIR  26 VIR                          

AUG  10 LEO   3 LEO  10 VIR   3 VIR     VIR   3 LEO     LEO   8 LEO  14 VIR   6 VIR     VIR  29 LEO     LEO  11 LEO   5 LEO  
26 VIR  18 VIR  29 LIB  26 LIB                          24 VIR          27 LIB                          28 VIR  20 VIR  

SEP  12 LIB   4 LIB     LIB  16 VIR     VIR   8 VIR   1 VIR   9 LIB   1 LIB     LIB     VIR  11 VIR   5 VIR  13 LIB   6 LIB  
27 SCO                          25 LIB  17 LIB  29 SCO  28 SCO                  30 LIB  21 LIB          27 SCO  

OCT   1 SCO  21 LIB     LIB  10 LIB   2 LIB  12 SCO   5 SCO     SCO   7 LIB   6 VIR   7 LIB  17 SCO   9 SCO   2 SCO  26 LIB  
28 SCO  20 SCO          30 SAG                   9 LIB  25 SCO          30 SAG                  

NOV     SCO  10 SCO   4 SCO  16 SAG   8 SAG   2 SAG  12 SCO     SCO   8 SCO   1 SCO  12 SAG   6 SAG  29 SCO     SCO  11 SCO  
30 SAG  23 SAG          30 CAP                          27 SAG  20 SAG                                          

DEC   7 SAG  19 CAP  12 CAP   6 CAP  16 SAG     SAG  11 SAG   5 SAG  16 CAP   9 CAP   3 CAP     SAG  12 SAG   8 SAG   2 SAG  
27 CAP                                          31 CAP  24 CAP                                          28 CAP  21 CAP  

1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
JAN   8 AQU   2 AQU     CAP  13 CAP   8 CAP   2 CAP  12 AQU   5 AQU   1 AQU     CAP  11 CAP   5 CAP  17 AQU  10 AQU   2 AQU  

24 CAP                  28 AQU  20 AQU  31 PIS          12 CAP                  24 AQU                  28 CAP  
FEB     AQU  15 AQU  10 AQU   4 AQU  14 PIS   7 PIS  16 AQU     AQU  14 AQU   8 AQU   1 AQU  11 PIS   3 PIS     AQU  14 AQU  

22 PIS                                          27 PIS  18 PIS                                  
MAR  16 PIS   9 PIS   2 PIS  10 ARI   3 ARI     PIS  17 PIS  13 PIS   6 PIS  14 ARI   6 ARI   3 ARI  11 AQU  16 PIS  10 PIS  

26 ARI  18 ARI          28 PIS                  31 ARI  23 ARI  31 TAU          11 PIS  13 PIS          27 ARI  
APR   4 ARI  10 TAU   2 TAU     ARI  17 ARI  14 ARI   8 ARI  15 TAU   7 TAU  25 ARI     ARI  17 ARI  12 ARI   4 ARI  11 TAU  

19 TAU  29 GEM                                  24 TAU                                          29 TAU  20 TAU  29 GEM  
MAY   4 GEM  19 TAU     TAU  16 TAU  10 TAU   2 TAU   8 GEM   1 GEM     TAU  15 TAU  13 TAU   7 TAU  13 GEM   4 GEM  28 TAU  

26 GEM  16 GEM  28 CAN                          30 GEM  22 GEM  29 CAN                  
31 CAN                                                                          

JUN     GEM  13 GEM  10 GEM   3 GEM   9 CAN     CAN  22 GEM     GEM  14 GEM   7 GEM  13 CAN   5 CAN     CAN     GEM  12 GEM  
26 CAN  17 CAN  27 LEO                                  22 CAN  29 LEO  26 LEO                          

JUL  12 CAN   4 CAN  10 LEO   2 LEO     LEO     CAN  12 CAN   9 CAN   1 CAN   6 LEO     LEO  23 CAN     CAN  12 CAN   5 CAN  
28 LEO  18 LEO  28 VIR  27 VIR                          24 LEO  15 LEO  26 VIR                          28 LEO  20 LEO  

AUG  12 VIR   3 VIR     VIR  13 LEO     LEO   8 LEO   1 LEO   8 VIR   1 VIR     VIR     LEO  11 LEO   6 LEO  12 VIR   4 VIR  
30 LIB  25 LIB                          24 VIR  16 VIR  27 LIB  29 LIB                  29 VIR  21 VIR  30 LIB  26 LIB  

SEP     LIB  21 VIR     VIR   9 VIR   2 VIR   9 LIB   2 LIB     LIB   5 VIR  30 LIB   6 VIR  14 LIB   7 LIB     LIB  26 VIR  
26 LIB  18 LIB  29 SCO  27 SCO                          22 LIB          28 SCO                  

OCT     LIB  10 LIB   4 LIB  14 SCO   6 SCO     SCO  13 LIB     LIB   8 LIB  17 SCO  10 SCO   3 SCO  31 LIB     LIB  11 LIB  
28 SCO  21 SCO          30 SAG                          26 SCO          31 SAG                          30 SCO  

NOV   6 SCO  16 SAG   9 SAG   3 SAG  17 SCO     SCO   9 SCO   2 SCO  14 SAG   6 SAG     SAG     SCO  11 SCO   6 SCO  17 SAG  
24 SAG                                          28 SAG  21 SAG                                          25 SAG          

DEC  13 CAP   6 CAP   1 CAP     SAG  12 SAG   5 SAG  17 CAP  10 CAP   4 CAP   1 CAP   4 SCO   9 SAG   3 SAG  14 CAP   7 CAP  
21 SAG                  24 CAP                           7 SAG  12 SAG  29 CAP  22 CAP                  

M e r c u ry  Ta b l e s • 4 8 7



1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
JAN     CAP  14 CAP   9 CAP   2 CAP  13 AQU   6 AQU   1 AQU     CAP  12 CAP   6 CAP  18 AQU  10 AQU   3 AQU     CAP  14 CAP  

29 AQU  21 AQU                  17 CAP                  26 AQU                                          
FEB  11 AQU   5 AQU  16 PIS   7 PIS   1 PIS     AQU  14 AQU   9 AQU   2 AQU  12 PIS   5 PIS   1 PIS   3 CAP  12 AQU   6 AQU  

23 PIS                  21 AQU                  27 PIS  20 PIS                   6 AQU  13 AQU          25 PIS  
MAR   3 PIS  11 ARI   3 ARI     PIS  18 PIS  14 PIS   7 PIS  15 ARI   8 ARI   2 ARI     PIS  17 PIS  11 PIS   4 PIS  12 ARI  

19 ARI                                          24 ARI                  18 PIS                  29 ARI  21 ARI  31 TAU  
APR   4 TAU     ARI   3 PIS  15 ARI   9 ARI   2 ARI   7 TAU   1 TAU     ARI  17 ARI  12 ARI   6 ARI  13 TAU   5 TAU  12 ARI  

14 ARI          25 TAU  17 TAU                                  29 TAU  21 TAU  30 GEM                  
MAY     TAU  16 TAU  10 TAU   3 TAU   9 GEM   2 GEM     TAU   4 ARI  14 TAU   8 TAU  14 GEM   5 GEM     GEM     TAU  16 TAU  

26 GEM  18 GEM  28 CAN                  12 TAU          23 GEM  29 CAN                                  
JUN  11 GEM   4 GEM   9 CAN   1 CAN     CAN     GEM  13 GEM   8 GEM   1 GEM   6 CAN     CAN     GEM     GEM  12 GEM   5 GEM  

27 CAN  19 CAN  27 LEO                                  23 CAN  15 CAN  26 LEO                          29 CAN  19 CAN  
30 LEO                                                  

JUL  11 LEO   4 LEO     LEO     CAN   2 GEM  10 CAN   2 CAN   8 LEO     LEO  31 CAN     CAN  12 CAN   7 CAN  13 LEO   4 LEO  
29 VIR  26 VIR                  10 CAN  25 LEO  16 LEO  26 VIR                          30 LEO  21 LEO  30 VIR  25 VIR  

AUG     VIR  19 LEO     LEO  10 LEO   3 LEO   9 VIR   1 VIR     VIR     LEO  10 LEO   7 LEO  14 VIR   6 VIR     VIR  24 LEO  
26 VIR  17 VIR  28 LIB  26 LIB                  31 VIR  22 VIR  31 LIB  26 LIB                  

SEP     VIR  10 VIR   3 VIR  11 LIB   3 LIB     LIB  12 VIR     VIR   7 VIR  16 LIB   7 LIB     LIB     LIB     VIR  10 VIR  
27 LIB  19 LIB  30 SCO  27 SCO                          24 LIB          28 SCO                          28 LIB  

OCT   5 LIB  15 SCO   7 SCO     SCO  19 LIB     LIB   8 LIB   2 LIB  11 SCO   5 SCO     SCO     LIB   2 VIR   6 LIB  15 SCO  
22 SCO          29 SAG                          26 SCO  19 SCO          30 SAG                  11 LIB  24 SCO          

31 SCO                  
NOV  10 SAG   4 SAG  21 SCO     SCO  10 SCO   4 SCO  14 SAG   7 SAG   1 SAG   9 SCO   7 LIB   7 SCO  19 SAG  12 SAG   4 SAG  

29 SAG  22 SAG          30 CAP                   8 SCO  26 SAG                          
DEC   1 CAP     SAG  12 SAG   6 SAG  19 CAP  11 CAP   4 CAP  13 SAG     SAG  10 SAG   3 SAG  15 CAP   8 CAP   2 CAP     SAG  

25 SAG                  26 CAP                                          31 CAP  22 CAP                  30 SAG          

2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014    2015    2016    2017    2018    2019
JAN   9 CAP   3 CAP  15 AQU   7 AQU   1 AQU     CAP  13 CAP   8 CAP  19 AQU  11 AQU   4 AQU   1 AQU   4 SAG  11 CAP   4 CAP  

30 AQU  22 AQU                  21 CAP                  27 AQU          31 PIS           8 CAP  12 CAP  31 AQU  24 AQU  
FEB  16 PIS   8 PIS   2 PIS     AQU  14 AQU  10 AQU   3 AQU  13 PIS   5 PIS  12 AQU     AQU  13 AQU   7 AQU  17 PIS  10 PIS  

26 AQU                          21 PIS                                          25 PIS                  
MAR   4 ARI     PIS  18 PIS  14 PIS   8 PIS   1 PIS   9 ARI   2 ARI     PIS  17 PIS  12 PIS   5 PIS  13 ARI   6 ARI     PIS  

25 ARI  17 ARI          23 PIS                  30 ARI  21 ARI  31 TAU                  
APR     ARI  16 ARI  10 ARI   2 ARI   9 TAU   2 TAU     ARI  16 ARI  13 ARI   7 ARI  14 TAU   5 TAU  20 ARI     ARI  17 ARI  

27 TAU  17 TAU  30 GEM                                  23 TAU  30 GEM                                  
MAY  12 TAU   5 TAU  11 GEM   2 GEM  13 TAU     TAU  15 TAU   9 TAU   1 TAU   7 GEM     GEM     TAU  15 TAU  13 TAU   6 TAU  

28 GEM  19 GEM  28 CAN                                  24 GEM  15 GEM  29 CAN                          29 GEM  21 GEM  
31 CAN                                                  

JUN  11 CAN   3 CAN     CAN     GEM  13 GEM  10 GEM   2 GEM   7 CAN     CAN  17 GEM     GEM  12 GEM   6 GEM  12 CAN   4 CAN  
27 LEO  28 LEO                          25 CAN  16 CAN  25 LEO                          29 CAN  21 CAN  29 LEO  26 LEO  

JUL     LEO  10 CAN     CAN  10 CAN   3 CAN   9 LEO   2 LEO     LEO     CAN  12 CAN   8 CAN  13 LEO   5 LEO     LEO  19 CAN  
26 LEO  17 LEO  27 VIR  28 VIR                  31 LEO  23 LEO  30 VIR  25 VIR                  

AUG     LEO  10 LEO   4 LEO  10 VIR   2 VIR     VIR   8 LEO  31 VIR   8 LEO  15 VIR   7 VIR     VIR  31 LEO     LEO  11 LEO  
27 VIR  19 VIR  28 LIB  25 LIB                          23 VIR          27 LIB                          29 VIR  

SEP   4 VIR  12 LIB   5 LIB     LIB  17 VIR     VIR   9 VIR  16 LIB   9 LIB   2 LIB     LIB     VIR   9 VIR   5 VIR  14 LIB  
20 LIB          27 SCO                          25 LIB          29 SCO  27 SCO                  29 LIB  21 LIB          

OCT   8 SCO   1 SCO  23 LIB     LIB   9 LIB   3 LIB  13 SCO   5 SCO     SCO  10 LIB     LIB   7 LIB  17 SCO   9 SCO   3 SCO  
30 SAG                          28 SCO  20 SCO          29 SAG                          24 SCO          30 SAG          

NOV  26 SCO     SCO  11 SCO   4 SCO  15 SAG   8 SAG   2 SAG  14 SCO     SCO   8 SCO   2 SCO  12 SAG   5 SAG     SAG     SCO  
23 SAG          30 CAP                          27 SAG  20 SAG                                  

DEC  12 SAG   8 SAG   1 SAG  12 CAP   5 CAP  18 SAG     SAG  10 SAG   4 SAG  16 CAP   9 CAP   2 CAP     SAG   1 SCO   9 SAG  
27 CAP  20 CAP                                  31 CAP  24 CAP                                  12 SAG  28 CAP  

2020    2021    2022    2023    2024    2025    2026    2027    2028    2029    2030    2031    2032    2033    2034
JAN  16 AQU   8 AQU   2 AQU     CAP  13 CAP   8 CAP   1 CAP  13 AQU   6 AQU  13 CAP     CAP  11 CAP   6 CAP  16 AQU   9 AQU  

25 CAP                  27 AQU  20 AQU  31 PIS                                  25 AQU                  
FEB   3 PIS     AQU  14 AQU  11 AQU   5 AQU  14 PIS   6 PIS  18 AQU     AQU  13 AQU   8 AQU   1 AQU  11 PIS   3 PIS     AQU  

23 PIS                                          27 PIS  19 PIS                          
MAR   4 AQU  15 PIS   9 PIS   2 PIS   9 ARI   3 ARI     PIS  18 PIS  13 PIS   6 PIS  15 ARI   7 ARI   1 ARI     PIS  16 PIS  

16 PIS          27 ARI  18 ARI          29 PIS                  31 ARI  23 ARI  31 TAU          13 PIS                  
APR  10 ARI   3 ARI  10 TAU   3 TAU     ARI  16 ARI  14 ARI   8 ARI  15 TAU   7 TAU  28 ARI     ARI  16 ARI  12 ARI   5 ARI  

27 TAU  19 TAU  29 GEM                                  24 TAU  30 GEM                                  29 TAU  20 TAU  
MAY  11 GEM   3 GEM  22 TAU     TAU  15 TAU  10 TAU   2 TAU   8 GEM     GEM     TAU  14 TAU  14 TAU   6 TAU  13 GEM   5 GEM  

28 CAN                                  25 GEM  17 GEM  28 CAN                          31 GEM  21 GEM  29 CAN          
JUN     CAN     GEM  13 GEM  11 GEM   3 GEM   8 CAN   1 CAN  26 GEM     GEM  13 GEM   8 GEM  14 CAN   5 CAN     CAN     GEM  

26 CAN  17 CAN  26 LEO                                  22 CAN  30 LEO  25 LEO                  
JUL     CAN  11 CAN   5 CAN  10 LEO   2 LEO     LEO     CAN  12 CAN   8 CAN   1 CAN   7 LEO     LEO  25 CAN     CAN  12 CAN  

27 LEO  19 LEO  28 VIR  25 VIR                          23 LEO  15 LEO  26 VIR                          29 LEO  
31 VIR                                          

AUG   4 LEO  11 VIR   4 VIR     VIR  14 LEO     LEO   9 LEO   2 LEO   8 VIR  26 LIB     VIR     LEO  10 LEO   6 LEO  13 VIR  
19 VIR  30 LIB  25 LIB                          25 VIR  16 VIR  27 LIB                          29 VIR  21 VIR  31 LIB  

SEP   5 LIB     LIB  23 VIR     VIR   9 VIR   2 VIR  10 LIB   3 LIB     LIB   8 VIR     VIR   7 VIR  14 LIB   6 LIB     LIB  
27 SCO                          26 LIB  18 LIB  30 SCO  27 SCO                          23 LIB          27 SCO          

OCT  27 LIB     LIB  10 LIB   4 LIB  13 SCO   6 SCO     SCO  16 LIB     LIB   8 LIB   1 LIB  11 SCO   3 SCO     SCO     LIB  
29 SCO  22 SCO          29 SAG                          26 SCO  18 SCO  31 SAG  31 SAG                  

NOV  10 SCO   5 SCO  17 SAG  10 SAG   2 SAG  18 SCO     SCO   9 SCO   2 SCO  13 SAG   6 SAG     SAG   3 SCO   2 LIB   6 SCO  
24 SAG                                          29 SAG  20 SAG          30 CAP                  10 SCO  25 SAG  

DEC   1 SAG  13 CAP   6 CAP   1 CAP     SAG  11 SAG   6 SAG  18 CAP  10 CAP   3 CAP  10 SAG   8 SCO   9 SAG   2 SAG  14 CAP  
20 CAP                  23 SAG                  25 CAP          31 AQU                  10 SAG  29 CAP  22 CAP          

4 8 8 • M e r c u ry  Ta b l e s



2035    2036    2037    2038    2039    2040    2041    2042    2043    2044    2045    2046    2047    2048    2049
JAN   3 AQU     CAP  13 CAP   9 CAP   2 CAP  14 AQU   6 AQU  18 CAP     CAP  12 CAP   6 CAP  18 AQU  10 AQU   4 AQU     CAP  

31 CAP                  29 AQU  21 AQU                                          25 AQU          31 PIS                  
FEB  14 AQU  12 AQU   5 AQU  15 PIS   8 PIS   1 PIS     AQU  14 AQU   9 AQU   2 AQU  12 PIS   4 PIS   9 AQU   7 CAP  12 AQU  

23 PIS                  23 AQU                  28 PIS  20 PIS                          12 AQU          
MAR  11 PIS   3 PIS  11 ARI   4 ARI     PIS  17 PIS  14 PIS   7 PIS  16 ARI   7 ARI   1 ARI     PIS  17 PIS  11 PIS   4 PIS  

28 ARI  19 ARI                                          24 ARI                  19 PIS                  29 ARI  20 ARI  
APR  12 TAU   3 TAU   3 TAU   8 PIS  15 ARI   9 ARI   1 ARI   8 TAU   1 TAU     ARI  16 ARI  13 ARI   6 ARI  12 TAU   5 TAU  

29 GEM           6 ARI  12 ARI          25 TAU  16 TAU                                  30 TAU  22 TAU  29 GEM          
MAY     GEM     TAU  16 TAU  11 TAU   4 TAU   9 GEM   1 GEM     TAU     TAU  14 TAU   8 TAU  14 GEM   6 GEM     GEM     TAU  

27 GEM  18 GEM  27 CAN                          31 GEM  23 GEM  30 CAN  30 CAN                  
JUN   1 TAU  11 GEM   4 GEM  10 CAN   2 CAN     CAN     GEM  13 GEM   9 GEM  14 CAN   6 CAN     CAN  10 GEM     GEM  12 GEM  

10 GEM  27 CAN  18 CAN  27 LEO                                  24 CAN  30 LEO  25 LEO                          28 CAN  
JUL   6 CAN  11 LEO   3 LEO     LEO     CAN     CAN  10 CAN   2 CAN   8 LEO     LEO     LEO     CAN  12 CAN   6 CAN  12 LEO  

20 LEO  28 VIR  25 VIR                          25 LEO  16 LEO  27 VIR                          30 LEO  21 LEO  29 VIR  
AUG   5 VIR     VIR  21 LEO     LEO  10 LEO   2 LEO   9 VIR   2 VIR     VIR     LEO   3 CAN   7 LEO  14 VIR   5 VIR     VIR  

26 LIB                          26 VIR  17 VIR  28 LIB  25 LIB                   8 LEO  22 VIR          26 LIB          
31 VIR                                  

SEP  28 VIR     VIR   9 VIR   3 VIR  11 LIB   3 LIB     LIB  14 VIR     VIR   7 VIR  15 LIB   8 LIB   1 LIB     LIB     VIR  
27 LIB  19 LIB          26 SCO                          23 LIB          28 SCO  29 SCO                  

OCT  11 LIB   5 LIB  14 SCO   7 SCO   1 SCO  20 LIB     LIB   9 LIB   2 LIB  11 SCO   4 SCO     SCO   6 LIB   4 VIR   6 LIB  
30 SCO  22 SCO          29 SAG                          27 SCO  19 SCO  31 SAG  29 SAG                   9 LIB  23 SCO  

31 SCO          
NOV  18 SAG  10 SAG   3 SAG  23 SCO     SCO   9 SCO   3 SCO  15 SAG   8 SAG     SAG  11 SCO     SCO   8 SCO  18 SAG  11 SAG  

29 SAG  22 SAG          30 CAP                          27 SAG                  
DEC   7 CAP   1 CAP     SAG  12 SAG   7 SAG  18 CAP  11 CAP   4 CAP  15 SAG     SAG  10 SAG   4 SAG  16 CAP   8 CAP   2 CAP  

26 SAG                  26 CAP          31 AQU                          30 CAP  23 CAP                  31 SAG  

2050    2051    2052    2053    2054    2055    2056    2057    2058    2059    2060    2061    2062    2063    2064
JAN  13 CAP  10 CAP   4 CAP  14 AQU   7 AQU   1 AQU     CAP  12 CAP   7 CAP  19 AQU  12 AQU   4 AQU  10 CAP   8 SAG  11 CAP  

30 AQU  23 AQU                  23 CAP                  27 AQU          31 PIS                  10 CAP  31 AQU  
FEB   6 AQU  17 PIS   9 PIS   1 PIS     AQU  14 AQU  10 AQU   3 AQU  13 PIS   6 PIS  15 AQU     AQU  13 AQU   7 AQU  18 PIS  

24 PIS                  28 AQU                  29 PIS  21 PIS                                          26 PIS          
MAR  12 ARI   5 ARI     PIS  17 PIS  15 PIS   9 PIS  17 ARI   9 ARI   2 ARI     PIS  17 PIS  12 PIS   5 PIS  14 ARI   5 ARI  

31 TAU                                  26 ARI                  25 PIS                  30 ARI  22 ARI  31 TAU          
APR  15 ARI     ARI  15 ARI  10 ARI   3 ARI  10 TAU   1 TAU     ARI  16 ARI  14 ARI   7 ARI  14 TAU   6 TAU  23 ARI     ARI  

26 TAU  18 TAU  30 GEM                                  22 TAU  30 GEM                          
MAY  16 TAU  12 TAU   4 TAU  10 GEM   3 GEM  17 TAU     TAU  15 TAU   9 TAU   2 TAU   7 GEM     GEM     TAU  15 TAU  12 TAU  

28 GEM  19 GEM  28 CAN                                  24 GEM  16 GEM  27 CAN                          29 GEM  
31 CAN                                          

JUN   5 GEM  11 CAN   2 CAN     CAN     GEM  13 GEM   9 GEM   2 GEM   7 CAN     CAN  19 GEM     GEM  13 GEM   7 GEM  12 CAN  
20 CAN  28 LEO  26 LEO                          24 CAN  16 CAN  26 LEO                          30 CAN  21 CAN  28 LEO  

JUL   5 LEO     LEO  13 CAN     CAN  11 CAN   4 CAN   9 LEO   1 LEO     LEO     CAN  12 CAN   8 CAN  14 LEO   6 LEO     LEO  
25 VIR                          26 LEO  18 LEO  27 VIR  26 VIR                  31 LEO  23 LEO  31 VIR  26 VIR          

AUG  27 LEO     LEO  10 LEO   4 LEO  10 VIR   3 VIR     VIR  10 LEO     LEO   8 LEO  15 VIR   7 VIR  29 LIB     VIR     LEO  
27 VIR  19 VIR  29 LIB  25 LIB                          24 VIR          26 LIB                          

SEP  10 VIR   5 VIR  12 LIB   4 LIB     LIB  20 VIR     VIR   8 VIR   1 VIR   9 LIB   1 LIB     LIB   2 VIR   3 LEO   5 VIR  
29 LIB  21 LIB          26 SCO                          25 LIB  17 LIB  29 SCO  26 SCO                   9 VIR  21 LIB  

30 LIB          
OCT  16 SCO   9 SCO   1 SCO  24 LIB     LIB  10 LIB   3 LIB  12 SCO   5 SCO     SCO  11 LIB     LIB   7 LIB  17 SCO   9 SCO  

30 SAG                          28 SCO  20 SCO          29 SAG                          25 SCO          30 SAG  
NOV   4 SAG  28 SCO     SCO  10 SCO   5 SCO  16 SAG   8 SAG   1 SAG  16 SCO     SCO   8 SCO   1 SCO  12 SAG   6 SAG     SAG  

30 SAG  23 SAG          30 CAP                          27 SAG  20 SAG                          
DEC     SAG  12 SAG   7 SAG  19 CAP  12 CAP   6 CAP  19 SAG     SAG  11 SAG   5 SAG  16 CAP   9 CAP   3 CAP   2 CAP   2 SCO  

27 CAP                                          31 CAP  24 CAP          31 AQU           6 SAG  11 SAG  

2065    2066    2067    2068    2069    2070    2071    2072    2073    2074    2075    2076    2077    2078    2079
JAN   4 CAP  16 AQU   8 AQU   2 AQU     CAP  13 CAP   8 CAP   2 CAP  12 AQU   5 AQU  15 CAP     CAP  11 CAP   5 CAP  17 AQU  

23 AQU                  28 CAP                  28 AQU  21 AQU  31 PIS                                  25 AQU          
FEB   9 PIS   2 PIS     AQU  14 AQU  10 AQU   4 AQU  14 PIS   7 PIS  19 AQU     AQU  13 AQU   8 AQU   1 AQU  11 PIS   4 PIS  

22 PIS                                          27 PIS  19 PIS                  
MAR   2 ARI   7 AQU  16 PIS   9 PIS   2 PIS  10 ARI   3 ARI     PIS  17 PIS  13 PIS   7 PIS  14 ARI   7 ARI   1 ARI     PIS  

8 PIS  14 PIS          26 ARI  18 ARI                                  31 ARI  23 ARI  31 TAU          15 PIS          
APR  16 ARI  11 ARI   4 ARI  10 TAU   3 TAU     ARI   1 PIS  14 ARI   8 ARI  15 TAU   7 TAU  30 ARI     ARI  16 ARI  12 ARI  

28 TAU  19 TAU  28 GEM                  15 ARI          24 TAU                                          29 TAU  
MAY   6 TAU  12 GEM   4 GEM  25 TAU     TAU  15 TAU  10 TAU   2 TAU   8 GEM   1 GEM     TAU  13 TAU  13 TAU   7 TAU  13 GEM  

20 GEM  28 CAN                                  26 GEM  16 GEM  27 CAN                          31 GEM  22 GEM  29 CAN  
31 CAN                                                          

JUN   4 CAN     CAN     GEM  12 GEM  10 GEM   3 GEM   9 CAN     CAN  28 GEM     GEM  13 GEM   7 GEM  13 CAN   5 CAN     CAN  
25 LEO                          26 CAN  17 CAN  27 LEO                                  22 CAN  29 LEO  25 LEO          

JUL  20 CAN     CAN  12 CAN   4 CAN  10 LEO   2 LEO     LEO     CAN  10 CAN   9 CAN   1 CAN   6 LEO     LEO  28 CAN     CAN  
28 LEO  19 LEO  28 VIR  25 VIR                          24 LEO  16 LEO  25 VIR                          

AUG  10 LEO   5 LEO  12 VIR   3 VIR     VIR  17 LEO     LEO   9 LEO   1 LEO   8 VIR   1 VIR     VIR     LEO  10 LEO   6 LEO  
28 VIR  20 VIR  30 LIB  25 LIB                          24 VIR  16 VIR  27 LIB  26 LIB                  30 VIR  22 VIR  

SEP  13 LIB   6 LIB     LIB  24 VIR     VIR   9 VIR   3 VIR  10 LIB   2 LIB     LIB  11 VIR  30 LIB   6 VIR  15 LIB   7 LIB  
27 SCO                          26 LIB  18 LIB  29 SCO  26 SCO                          23 LIB          28 SCO  

OCT   2 SCO  30 LIB     LIB  10 LIB   4 LIB  14 SCO   7 SCO     SCO  17 LIB     LIB   8 LIB  18 SCO  10 SCO   3 SCO     SCO  
29 SCO  21 SCO          29 SAG                          26 SCO          31 SAG  30 SAG          

NOV     SCO  10 SCO   6 SCO  16 SAG   9 SAG   3 SAG  20 SCO     SCO   9 SCO   3 SCO  14 SAG   6 SAG     SAG   7 SCO   5 LIB  
25 SAG          30 CAP                          28 SAG  21 SAG          29 CAP                   9 SCO  

DEC   8 SAG   2 SAG  14 CAP   6 CAP  24 SAG     SAG  12 SAG   5 SAG  17 CAP  10 CAP   4 CAP  11 SAG     SAG   9 SAG   3 SAG  
28 CAP  21 CAP                                          25 CAP          31 AQU                          29 CAP  22 CAP  

M e r c u ry  Ta b l e s • 4 8 9



2080    2081    2082    2083    2084    2085    2086    2087    2088    2089    2090    2091    2092    2093    2094
JAN  10 AQU   2 AQU     CAP  13 CAP   9 CAP   2 CAP  14 AQU   6 AQU   1 AQU     CAP  12 CAP   6 CAP  18 AQU  10 AQU   3 AQU  

29 AQU  21 AQU                  20 CAP                  26 AQU          30 PIS          
FEB   2 PIS   1 CAP  11 AQU   5 AQU  16 PIS   7 PIS   1 PIS     AQU  14 AQU   9 AQU   2 AQU  12 PIS   5 PIS  10 AQU     AQU  

4 AQU  13 AQU          24 PIS                  24 AQU                  28 PIS  20 PIS                                  
MAR  16 PIS  10 PIS   3 PIS  12 ARI   3 ARI     PIS  17 PIS  14 PIS   7 PIS  16 ARI   8 ARI   2 ARI     PIS  16 PIS  11 PIS  

28 ARI  20 ARI                                          24 ARI                  22 PIS                  29 ARI  
APR   4 ARI  12 TAU   4 TAU   1 TAU     ARI  15 ARI   9 ARI   2 ARI   8 TAU   1 TAU     ARI  16 ARI  12 ARI   6 ARI  13 TAU  

20 TAU  29 GEM          10 ARI                  25 TAU  17 TAU  30 GEM                          30 TAU  22 TAU  29 GEM  
MAY   4 GEM     GEM     TAU  16 TAU  11 TAU   4 TAU  10 GEM   2 GEM   9 TAU     TAU  14 TAU   8 TAU  14 GEM   6 GEM     GEM  

27 GEM  18 GEM  27 CAN                                  24 GEM  30 CAN  28 CAN          
JUN     GEM     GEM  11 GEM   5 GEM   9 CAN   2 CAN     CAN     GEM  13 GEM   8 GEM   1 GEM   7 CAN     CAN  13 GEM     GEM  

28 CAN  19 CAN  26 LEO  29 LEO                          24 CAN  15 CAN  25 LEO                          
30 LEO                                  

JUL  11 CAN   6 CAN  12 LEO   4 LEO     LEO   6 CAN     CAN  10 CAN   2 CAN   8 LEO  29 VIR     LEO     CAN  12 CAN   7 CAN  
29 LEO  20 LEO  29 VIR  25 VIR                          26 LEO  16 LEO  26 VIR                          30 LEO  22 LEO  

AUG  12 VIR   5 VIR     VIR  23 LEO     LEO   9 LEO   3 LEO  10 VIR   1 VIR     VIR   4 LEO  31 VIR   7 LEO  14 VIR   6 VIR  
30 LIB  25 LIB                          26 VIR  18 VIR  28 LIB  24 LIB                          22 VIR  31 LIB  26 LIB  

SEP     LIB  30 VIR     VIR  10 VIR   3 VIR  11 LIB   4 LIB     LIB  15 VIR     VIR   7 VIR  16 LIB   7 LIB  27 SCO     LIB  
28 LIB  19 LIB  30 SCO  26 SCO                          24 LIB          28 SCO                  

OCT     LIB  10 LIB   5 LIB  15 SCO   7 SCO     SCO  22 LIB     LIB   8 LIB   2 LIB  12 SCO   5 SCO     SCO   8 LIB  31 SCO  
30 SCO  23 SCO          29 SAG                          27 SCO  19 SCO          29 SAG                          

NOV   6 SCO  18 SAG  10 SAG   4 SAG  24 SCO     SCO  10 SCO   4 SCO  14 SAG   7 SAG   1 SAG  13 SCO     SCO   7 SCO  19 SAG  
25 SAG                                          30 SAG  22 SAG          29 CAP                          26 SAG          

DEC  14 CAP   7 CAP   1 CAP     SAG  11 SAG   6 SAG  19 CAP  12 CAP   4 CAP  16 SAG     SAG  10 SAG   3 SAG  15 CAP   8 CAP  
28 SAG                  26 CAP                                          31 CAP  23 CAP                  

2095    2096    2097    2098    2099    2100    
JAN   1 AQU   3 SAG   9 CAP   3 CAP  15 AQU   8 AQU          

6 CAP  12 CAP  30 AQU  22 AQU                          
FEB  12 AQU   7 AQU  16 PIS   9 PIS   2 PIS     AQU          

25 PIS                                          
MAR   5 PIS  12 ARI   5 ARI     PIS   2 AQU  15 PIS          

21 ARI  30 TAU                  16 PIS                  
APR   5 TAU  17 ARI     ARI  16 ARI  10 ARI   3 ARI          

27 TAU  19 TAU          
MAY     TAU  15 TAU  12 TAU   5 TAU  11 GEM   3 GEM          

28 GEM  20 GEM  28 CAN                  
JUN  12 GEM   5 GEM  11 CAN   3 CAN     CAN     GEM          

29 CAN  20 CAN  27 LEO  26 LEO                          
JUL  13 LEO   4 LEO     LEO  16 CAN     CAN  11 CAN          

30 VIR  24 VIR                          27 LEO          
AUG     VIR  29 LEO     LEO  10 LEO   4 LEO  11 VIR          

27 VIR  19 VIR  29 LIB          
SEP     VIR   9 VIR   4 VIR  12 LIB   5 LIB     LIB          

28 LIB  20 LIB          27 SCO                  
OCT   7 LIB  15 SCO   8 SCO   1 SCO  27 LIB     LIB          

24 SCO          29 SAG                                  
NOV  12 SAG   4 SAG  29 SCO     SCO  10 SCO   5 SCO          

24 SCO          
DEC   2 CAP     SAG  11 SAG   8 SAG   1 SAG  13 CAP          

27 CAP  20 CAP              

4 9 0 • M e r c u ry  Ta b l e s




Where Is Your Venus?

The following Venus Tables will tell you what sign Example: You were born January 25, 1980. Locate the year
Venus was in on the day of your birth. 1980 and the month JAN. You will see that on the 15th of Jan-

First locate the year you were born. Next, find the month of uary in 1980, Venus moved into Pisces; it did not move into
your birth (on the left-hand side of the page) and place a ruler the next sign until the 9th of February. Therefore, on January
across the page under your birth month. 25th, your birthday, Venus was in Pisces.

The tables list for your month every date on which Venus
moved into a new sign.* If no date is given and you see only a Example: You were born July 12, 1964. Locate the year 1964

sign listed, it means Venus was in that sign throughout the and the month JUL. You will see that Venus was in Gemini
entire month. throughout the month of July in 1964. Therefore, your Venus

is in Gemini.

*If you were born on a day on which Venus moved to a new sign, you should use the enclosed CD-ROM to cast your chart. At the time of day you
were born, Venus might still have been in the previous sign because it had not yet entered the new sign. Your computer chart will tell you the exact sign
your Venus is in as well as the exact degree of this sign.

Ve n u s  Ta b l e s • 4 9 1



1900    1901    1902    1903    1904    1905    1906    1907    1908    1909    1910    1911    1912    1913    1914
JAN  19 PIS  16 CAP  11 PIS  10 AQU   4 SAG   7 PIS   1 CAP     SAG  20 PIS  15 CAP  15 PIS  10 AQU   4 SAG   7 PIS   1 CAP 

30 CAP          25 AQU                          29 AQU          29 CAP          24 AQU 
FEB  13 ARI   9 AQU   6 AQU   3 PIS  23 AQU   2 ARI  18 PIS   6 CAP  13 ARI   8 AQU     AQU   3 PIS  23 AQU   2 ARI  17 PIS 

27 ARI                                                          27 ARI                         
MAR  10 TAU   5 PIS     AQU  24 TAU  19 PIS   6 TAU  14 ARI   6 AQU  10 TAU   4 PIS     AQU  23 TAU  18 PIS   6 TAU  13 ARI 

29 ARI                                                          29 ARI                                         
APR   5 GEM  22 TAU   4 PIS  18 GEM  12 ARI     TAU   7 TAU   1 PIS   5 GEM  22 TAU   5 PIS  17 GEM  12 ARI     TAU   6 TAU 

27 ARI                                                         
MAY   5 CAN  17 GEM   7 ARI  13 CAN   7 TAU   9 ARI   1 GEM  22 TAU   5 CAN  16 GEM   6 ARI  13 CAN   6 TAU   2 ARI   1 GEM 

31 GEM  28 TAU  26 CAN                                          31 GEM  31 TAU  26 CAN 
JUN     CAN  10 CAN   3 TAU   8 LEO  25 CAN     TAU  20 LEO  16 GEM     CAN   9 CAN   3 TAU   8 LEO  24 CAN     TAU  19 LEO 

30 GEM                                                          29 GEM                                 
JUL     CAN   5 LEO  25 CAN   7 VIR  19 LEO   8 GEM  15 VIR  11 CAN     CAN   4 LEO  25 CAN   7 VIR  19 LEO   8 GEM  15 VIR 

29 VIR                                                          29 VIR                                         
AUG     CAN  23 LIB  19 LEO  17 LIB  13 VIR   6 CAN  10 LIB   4 LEO     CAN  22 LIB  19 LEO     VIR  12 VIR   5 CAN  10 LIB 

28 VIR                                                         
SEP   8 LEO  17 SCO  13 VIR   5 VIR   6 LIB   1 LEO   7 SCO  22 LIB   8 LEO  16 SCO  12 VIR     VIR   5 LIB   1 LEO   7 SCO 

30 SCO  26 VIR                                                  30 SCO  26 VIR         
OCT   8 VIR  12 SAG   7 LIB     VIR  25 SAG  21 LIB   9 SAG  16 SCO   8 VIR  12 SAG   6 LIB     VIR  24 SAG  21 LIB   9 SAG 

31 SCO                                                          30 SCO                                 
NOV   3 LIB   7 CAP  24 SAG   8 LIB  18 CAP  14 SCO     SAG   9 SAG   3 LIB   7 CAP  23 SAG   8 LIB  18 CAP  14 SCO     SAG 

28 SCO                                                          28 SCO                                                 
DEC  23 SAG   5 AQU  18 CAP   9 SCO  13 AQU   8 SAG  15 SCO   3 CAP  22 SAG   5 AQU  17 CAP   9 SCO  12 AQU   8 SAG   5 SCO 

25 SAG  27 AQU                                                  30 SAG 

1915    1916    1917    1918    1919    1920    1921    1922    1923    1924    1925    1926    1927    1928    1929
JAN     SAG  19 PIS  15 CAP     AQU   9 AQU   4 SAG   6 PIS  24 AQU   2 SAG  19 PIS  14 CAP     AQU   9 AQU   3 SAG   6 PIS 

29 CAP                                                          28 CAP         
FEB   6 CAP  13 ARI   8 AQU     AQU   2 PIS  22 AQU   2 ARI  17 PIS   6 CAP  12 ARI   7 AQU     AQU   2 PIS  22 AQU   2 ARI 

26 ARI                                                          26 ARI                 
MAR   6 AQU   9 TAU   4 PIS     AQU  23 TAU  18 PIS   7 TAU  13 ARI   6 AQU   9 TAU   3 PIS     AQU  22 TAU  17 PIS   8 TAU 

28 ARI                                                          27 ARI                                 
APR   1 PIS   5 GEM  21 TAU   5 PIS  17 GEM  11 ARI  25 ARI   6 TAU   1 PIS   5 GEM  21 TAU   5 PIS  16 GEM  11 ARI  19 ARI 

26 ARI                                                  30 GEM  26 ARI                                                 
MAY  21 TAU   5 CAN  16 GEM   6 ARI  12 CAN   6 TAU     ARI  25 CAN  21 TAU   5 CAN  15 GEM   6 ARI  12 CAN   5 TAU     ARI 

30 GEM                                                          30 GEM         
JUN  15 GEM     CAN   9 CAN   3 TAU   8 LEO  24 CAN   1 TAU  19 LEO  15 GEM     CAN   8 CAN   2 TAU   7 LEO  23 CAN   3 TAU 

29 GEM                                                          28 GEM                         
JUL  10 CAN     CAN   3 LEO  24 CAN   7 VIR  18 LEO   8 GEM  14 VIR   9 CAN     CAN   3 LEO  24 CAN   7 VIR  18 LEO   7 GEM 

28 VIR                                                          28 VIR                                 
AUG   4 LEO     CAN  22 LIB  18 LEO     VIR  11 VIR   5 CAN  10 LIB   3 LEO     CAN  21 LIB  17 LEO     VIR  11 VIR   5 CAN 

28 VIR                                          31 LEO          27 VIR                                          31 LEO 
SEP  21 LIB   8 LEO  16 SCO  12 VIR     VIR   5 LIB  25 VIR   7 SCO  20 LIB   8 LEO  15 SCO  11 VIR     VIR   4 LIB  25 VIR 

29 SCO                                                          29 SCO         
OCT  15 SCO   7 VIR  11 SAG   6 LIB     VIR  24 SAG  20 LIB  10 SAG  14 SCO   7 VIR  11 SAG   5 LIB     VIR  23 SAG  20 LIB 

30 SCO                                                          29 SCO                         
NOV   8 SAG   2 LIB   7 CAP  23 SAG   9 LIB  17 CAP  13 SCO  28 SCO   8 SAG   2 LIB   6 CAP  22 SAG   9 LIB  17 CAP  13 SCO 

27 SCO                                                          27 SCO                                         
DEC   2 CAP  22 SAG   5 AQU  16 CAP   8 SCO  12 AQU   7 SAG     SCO   2 CAP  21 SAG   5 AQU  16 CAP   8 SCO  11 AQU   7 SAG 

26 AQU                                          31 CAP          26 AQU                                          30 CAP 

1930    1931    1932    1933    1934    1935    1936    1937    1938    1939    1940    1941    1942    1943    1944
JAN  23 AQU   3 SAG  18 PIS  14 CAP     AQU   8 AQU   3 SAG   5 PIS  23 AQU   4 SAG  18 PIS  13 CAP     AQU   8 AQU   2 SAG 

28 CAP                                                          27 CAP 
FEB  16 PIS   6 CAP  12 ARI   7 AQU     AQU   1 PIS  21 AQU   2 ARI  16 PIS   6 CAP  12 ARI   6 AQU     AQU   1 PIS  21 AQU 

25 ARI                                                          25 ARI         
MAR  12 ARI   5 AQU   8 TAU   3 PIS     AQU  22 TAU  17 PIS   9 TAU  12 ARI   5 AQU   8 TAU   2 PIS     AQU  21 TAU  16 PIS 

31 PIS          27 ARI                                          31 PIS          26 ARI                         
APR   5 TAU  25 ARI   4 GEM  20 TAU   6 PIS  16 GEM  10 ARI  13 ARI   5 TAU  25 ARI   4 GEM  20 TAU   6 PIS  15 GEM  10 ARI 

30 GEM                                                          29 GEM                                                 
MAY  24 CAN  20 TAU   6 CAN  14 GEM   6 ARI  11 CAN   5 TAU     ARI  24 CAN  20 TAU   6 CAN  14 GEM   5 ARI  11 CAN   4 TAU 

29 GEM                                                          29 GEM 
JUN  18 LEO  14 GEM     CAN   8 CAN   2 TAU   7 LEO  23 CAN   4 TAU  18 LEO  14 GEM     CAN   7 CAN   1 TAU   7 LEO  22 CAN 

28 GEM                                                          27 GEM                 
JUL  14 VIR   9 CAN  13 GEM   2 LEO  23 CAN   7 VIR  17 LEO   7 GEM  14 VIR   8 CAN   5 GEM   2 LEO  23 CAN   7 VIR  16 LEO 

28 CAN  27 VIR                                                  31 CAN  26 VIR                         
AUG   9 LIB   2 LEO     CAN  21 LIB  17 LEO     VIR  10 VIR   4 CAN   9 LIB   2 LEO     CAN  20 LIB  16 LEO     VIR  10 VIR 

27 VIR                                          30 LEO          26 VIR                                         
SEP   6 SCO  20 LIB   8 LEO  15 SCO  10 VIR     VIR   4 LIB  24 VIR   6 SCO  19 LIB   8 LEO  14 SCO  10 VIR     VIR   3 LIB 

28 SCO                                                          28 SCO 
OCT  11 SAG  14 SCO   7 VIR  10 SAG   5 LIB     VIR  23 SAG  19 LIB  13 SAG  13 SCO   6 VIR  10 SAG   4 LIB     VIR  22 SAG 

29 SCO                                                          28 SCO                 
NOV  22 SCO   7 SAG   1 LIB   6 CAP  21 SAG   9 LIB  16 CAP  12 SCO  15 SCO   6 SAG   1 LIB   6 CAP  21 SAG   9 LIB  16 CAP 

26 SCO                                                  30 CAP  26 SCO                                 
DEC     SCO   1 CAP  21 SAG   5 AQU  15 CAP   8 SCO  11 AQU   6 SAG     SCO  25 AQU  20 SAG   5 AQU  15 CAP   8 SCO  10 AQU 

25 AQU                                          30 CAP                                                         

4 9 2 • Ve n u s  Ta b l e s



1945    1946    1947    1948    1949    1950    1951    1952    1953    1954    1955    1956    1957    1958    1959
JAN   5 PIS  22 AQU   5 SAG  17 PIS  13 CAP     AQU   7 AQU   2 SAG   5 PIS  22 AQU   6 SAG  17 PIS  12 CAP     AQU   7 AQU  

31 PIS  27 CAP                                                  31 PIS  
FEB   2 ARI  15 PIS   6 CAP  11 ARI   6 AQU     AQU  24 ARI  20 AQU   2 ARI  15 PIS   5 CAP  11 ARI   5 AQU     AQU  24 ARI  
MAR  11 TAU  11 ARI   5 AQU   8 TAU   2 PIS     AQU  21 TAU  16 PIS  14 TAU  11 ARI   4 AQU   7 TAU   1 PIS     AQU  20 TAU  

30 PIS          26 ARI                          31 ARI          30 PIS          25 ARI                  
APR   7 ARI   4 TAU  24 ARI   4 GEM  19 TAU   6 PIS  15 GEM   9 ARI     ARI   4 TAU  24 ARI   4 GEM  18 TAU   6 PIS  14 GEM  

29 GEM                                                          28 GEM                                          
MAY     ARI  23 CAN  19 TAU   7 CAN  13 GEM   5 ARI  10 CAN   4 TAU     ARI  23 CAN  19 TAU   7 CAN  13 GEM   5 ARI  10 CAN  

28 GEM                                          31 TAU          
JUN   4 TAU  18 LEO  13 GEM  29 GEM   7 CAN   1 TAU   7 LEO  22 CAN   5 TAU  17 LEO  13 GEM  23 GEM   6 CAN  26 GEM   6 LEO  

27 GEM                                                                          
JUL   7 GEM  13 VIR   8 CAN     GEM   1 LEO  22 CAN   7 VIR  16 LEO   7 GEM  13 VIR   7 CAN     GEM   1 LEO  22 CAN   8 VIR  

26 VIR                                                          25 VIR                  
AUG   4 CAN   9 LIB   1 LEO   2 CAN  20 LIB  16 LEO     VIR   9 VIR   3 CAN   8 LIB   1 LEO   4 CAN  19 LIB  15 LEO     VIR  

30 LEO          26 VIR                                          29 LEO          25 VIR                                  
SEP  24 VIR   6 SCO  19 LIB   8 LEO  14 SCO   9 VIR     VIR   3 LIB  23 VIR   6 SCO  18 LIB   8 LEO  14 SCO   9 VIR  19 LEO  

27 SCO                                                  25 VIR  
OCT  18 LIB  16 SAG  13 SCO   6 VIR  10 SAG   4 LIB     VIR  22 SAG  18 LIB  23 SAG  12 SCO   5 VIR   9 SAG   3 LIB     VIR  

28 SCO                          27 SCO          31 LIB          27 SCO          
NOV  12 SCO   8 SCO   6 SAG   1 LIB   5 CAP  20 SAG   9 LIB  15 CAP  11 SCO     SCO   5 SAG  25 SCO   5 CAP  20 SAG   9 LIB  

30 CAP  25 SCO                                                  29 CAP                                  
DEC   6 SAG     SCO  24 AQU  20 SAG   6 AQU  14 CAP   7 SCO  10 AQU   5 SAG     SCO  24 AQU  19 SAG   6 AQU  14 CAP   7 SCO  

29 CAP                                                          29 CAP                                                  

1960    1961    1962    1963    1964    1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974
JAN   2 SAG   4 PIS  21 AQU   6 SAG  16 PIS  12 CAP     AQU   6 AQU   1 SAG   4 PIS  21 AQU   6 SAG  16 PIS  11 CAP  29 CAP  

26 CAP                                                  30 PIS  26 CAP                                                  
FEB  20 AQU   1 ARI  14 PIS   5 CAP  10 ARI   5 AQU   6 CAP  23 ARI  19 AQU   1 ARI  14 PIS   5 CAP  10 ARI   4 AQU  28 AQU  

25 AQU                                                  28 PIS          
MAR  15 PIS     ARI  10 ARI   4 AQU   7 TAU   1 PIS     AQU  20 TAU  15 PIS     ARI  10 ARI   3 AQU   6 TAU  24 ARI     AQU  

29 PIS          25 ARI                                          29 PIS                          
APR   9 ARI     ARI   3 TAU  23 ARI   3 GEM  18 TAU   6 PIS  14 GEM   8 ARI     ARI   3 TAU  23 ARI   3 GEM  17 TAU   6 PIS  

28 GEM                                                          27 GEM                                  
MAY   3 TAU     ARI  22 CAN  18 TAU   8 CAN  12 GEM   4 ARI  10 CAN   3 TAU     ARI  22 CAN  18 TAU  10 CAN  12 GEM   4 ARI  

28 GEM                                          31 TAU          27 GEM                                          31 TAU  
JUN  21 CAN   5 TAU  17 LEO  12 GEM  17 GEM   6 CAN  26 GEM   6 LEO  20 CAN   5 TAU  16 LEO  12 GEM  11 GEM   5 CAN  25 GEM  

30 LEO                                                          30 LEO          
JUL  15 LEO   6 GEM  12 VIR   7 CAN     GEM  25 VIR  21 CAN   8 VIR  15 LEO   6 GEM  12 VIR   6 CAN     GEM  24 VIR  20 CAN  

31 LEO                                                          31 LEO                          
AUG   9 VIR   3 CAN   8 LIB  25 VIR   5 CAN  19 LIB  15 LEO     VIR   8 VIR   3 CAN   8 LIB  24 VIR   5 CAN  18 LIB  14 LEO  

29 LEO                                                          28 LEO                                          
SEP   2 LIB  23 VIR   6 SCO  18 LIB   7 LEO  13 SCO   8 VIR   9 LEO   2 LIB  22 VIR   6 SCO  17 LIB   7 LEO  13 SCO   8 VIR  

27 SCO                                                          26 SCO                                                  
OCT  21 SAG  17 LIB     SCO  12 SCO   5 VIR   9 SAG   2 LIB   1 VIR  21 SAG  17 LIB     SCO  11 SCO   5 VIR   9 SAG   2 LIB  

31 LIB          26 SCO                                          30 LIB          26 SCO  
NOV  15 CAP  11 SCO     SCO   5 SAG  24 SCO   5 CAP  19 SAG   9 LIB  14 CAP  10 SCO     SCO   4 SAG  24 SCO   5 CAP  19 SAG  

29 CAP                                                          28 CAP                          
DEC  10 AQU   4 SAG     SCO  23 AQU  19 SAG   6 AQU  13 CAP   7 SCO   9 AQU   4 SAG     SCO  23 AQU  18 SAG   7 AQU  13 CAP  

28 CAP                                                          28 CAP                                          

1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
JAN   6 AQU   1 SAG   4 PIS  20 AQU   7 SAG  15 PIS  11 CAP  22 CAP   5 AQU  25 CAP   4 PIS  20 AQU   7 SAG  15 PIS  10 CAP  

30 PIS  26 CAP                                                  29 PIS                                                  
FEB  23 ARI  19 AQU   2 ARI  13 PIS   5 CAP   9 ARI   4 AQU     CAP  22 ARI  18 AQU   2 ARI  12 PIS   4 CAP   9 ARI   3 AQU  

28 PIS                                                          27 PIS  
MAR  19 TAU  14 PIS     ARI   9 ARI   3 AQU   6 TAU  24 ARI   2 AQU  19 TAU  14 PIS     ARI   8 ARI   3 AQU   6 TAU  23 ARI  

28 PIS                                                          28 PIS                  
APR  13 GEM   8 ARI     ARI   2 TAU  22 ARI   3 GEM  17 TAU   6 PIS  13 GEM   7 ARI     ARI   2 TAU  22 ARI   3 GEM  16 TAU  

27 GEM                                                          26 GEM                          
MAY   9 CAN   2 TAU     ARI  21 CAN  17 TAU  12 CAN  11 GEM   4 ARI   9 CAN   1 TAU     ARI  21 CAN  17 TAU  17 CAN  11 GEM  

26 GEM                                          30 TAU          26 GEM                          27 GEM          
JUN   6 LEO  20 CAN   6 TAU  16 LEO  11 GEM   5 GEM   5 CAN  25 GEM   6 LEO  19 CAN   6 TAU  15 LEO  11 GEM     GEM   4 CAN  

29 LEO                                                          29 LEO  
JUL   9 VIR  14 LEO   6 GEM  11 VIR   6 CAN     GEM  24 VIR  20 CAN  10 VIR  14 LEO   6 GEM  11 VIR   5 CAN     GEM  23 VIR  

30 LEO                                                          30 LEO                  
AUG     VIR   8 VIR   2 CAN   7 LIB  23 VIR   6 CAN  18 LIB  14 LEO  27 LEO   7 VIR   2 CAN   7 LIB  23 VIR   6 CAN  17 LIB  

28 LEO                                                          27 LEO                                  
SEP   2 LEO   1 LIB  22 VIR   7 SCO  17 LIB   7 LEO  12 SCO   7 VIR     LEO   1 LIB  21 VIR   7 SCO  16 LIB   7 LEO  12 SCO  

25 SCO                                                          25 SCO                                          
OCT   4 VIR  20 SAG  16 LIB     SCO  11 SCO   4 VIR   8 SAG   1 LIB   5 VIR  20 SAG  16 LIB     SCO  10 SCO   4 VIR   8 SAG  

30 LIB          25 SCO                                          29 LIB          
NOV   9 LIB  14 CAP   9 SCO     SCO   4 SAG  23 SCO   5 CAP  18 SAG   9 LIB  13 CAP   9 SCO     SCO   3 SAG  23 SCO   5 CAP  

28 CAP                                                          27 CAP                  
DEC   6 SCO   9 AQU   3 SAG     SCO  22 AQU  18 SAG   8 AQU  12 CAP   6 SCO   8 AQU   3 SAG     SCO  22 AQU  17 SAG   9 AQU  

27 CAP                                          31 SAG          27 CAP                                  

Ve n u s  Ta b l e s • 4 9 3



1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
JAN  16 CAP   5 AQU  25 CAP   3 PIS  19 AQU   7 SAG  14 PIS  10 CAP   9 CAP   4 AQU  24 CAP   3 PIS  18 AQU   7 SAG  14 PIS  

28 PIS                                                          28 PIS                                          
FEB     CAP  22 ARI  18 AQU   2 ARI  12 PIS   4 CAP   8 ARI   2 AQU     CAP  21 ARI  17 AQU   2 ARI  11 PIS   4 CAP   8 ARI  

26 PIS                                                          
MAR   3 AQU  18 TAU  13 PIS     ARI   8 ARI   2 AQU   5 TAU  23 ARI   4 AQU  18 TAU  13 PIS     ARI   7 ARI   2 AQU   5 TAU  

28 PIS                                                          27 PIS          
APR   6 PIS  12 GEM   7 ARI     ARI   1 TAU  21 ARI   3 GEM  16 TAU   6 PIS  12 GEM   6 ARI     ARI   1 TAU  21 ARI   3 GEM  

26 GEM                                          30 TAU          25 GEM                  
MAY   3 ARI   8 CAN   1 TAU     ARI  20 CAN  16 TAU     GEM  10 GEM   3 ARI   8 CAN  25 GEM     ARI  20 CAN  16 TAU     GEM  

30 TAU          25 GEM                                          29 TAU                                                  
JUN  24 GEM   5 LEO  19 CAN   6 TAU  15 LEO  10 GEM     GEM   3 CAN  24 GEM   5 LEO  18 CAN   6 TAU  14 LEO   9 GEM     GEM  

28 LEO                                                          
JUL  19 CAN  11 VIR  13 LEO   5 GEM  11 VIR   5 CAN     GEM  23 VIR  19 CAN  12 VIR  13 LEO   5 GEM  10 VIR   4 CAN     GEM  

29 LEO                                                          28 LEO          
AUG  13 LEO  21 LEO   7 VIR   1 CAN   7 LIB  22 VIR   7 CAN  17 LIB  13 LEO  15 LEO   6 VIR   1 CAN   7 LIB  22 VIR   7 CAN  

31 LIB  27 LEO                                                  30 LIB  26 LEO                          
SEP   7 VIR     LEO  24 SCO  21 VIR   7 SCO  16 LIB   7 LEO  11 SCO   6 VIR     LEO  24 SCO  20 VIR   7 SCO  15 LIB   6 LEO  

30 LIB                                                  
OCT   1 LIB   6 VIR  19 SAG  15 LIB     SCO  10 SCO   3 VIR   8 SAG  24 SCO   7 VIR  19 SAG  15 LIB     SCO   9 SCO   3 VIR  

25 SCO                                          29 LIB                                                          28 LIB  
NOV  18 SAG   9 LIB  13 CAP   8 SCO     SCO   3 SAG  22 SCO   5 CAP  17 SAG   8 LIB  12 CAP   8 SCO     SCO   2 SAG  22 SCO  

27 CAP                                                          26 CAP          
DEC  12 CAP   6 SCO   8 AQU   2 SAG     SCO  21 AQU  17 SAG  11 AQU  11 CAP   5 SCO   8 AQU   2 SAG     SCO  21 AQU  16 SAG  

31 SAG          26 CAP                                          30 SAG          26 CAP                          

2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014    2015    2016    2017    2018    2019
JAN   9 CAP   1 CAP   3 AQU  24 CAP   3 PIS  18 AQU   7 SAG  14 PIS   8 CAP     CAP   3 AQU  23 CAP   3 PIS  17 AQU   7 SAG  

27 PIS                                                          27 PIS                                  
FEB   2 AQU     CAP  21 ARI  17 AQU   2 ARI  11 PIS   4 CAP   8 ARI   1 AQU     CAP  20 ARI  16 AQU   3 ARI  10 PIS   3 CAP  

26 PIS                                                          25 PIS                                                  
MAR  22 ARI   5 AQU  17 TAU  12 PIS     ARI   7 ARI   1 AQU   5 TAU  21 ARI   5 AQU  17 TAU  12 PIS     ARI   6 ARI   1 AQU  

31 TAU  27 PIS                                                  30 TAU  26 PIS  
APR  15 TAU   5 PIS  11 GEM   6 ARI  11 ARI  25 GEM  20 ARI   3 GEM  15 TAU   5 PIS  11 GEM   5 ARI   2 ARI  24 GEM  20 ARI  

30 TAU  24 ARI                                                  29 TAU  28 ARI                  
MAY   9 GEM   3 ARI   8 CAN  24 GEM     ARI  19 CAN  15 TAU     GEM   9 GEM   2 ARI   7 CAN  24 GEM     ARI  19 CAN  15 TAU  

29 TAU                                                          28 TAU                                          
JUN   3 CAN  23 GEM   5 LEO  18 CAN   6 TAU  14 LEO   9 GEM     GEM   2 CAN  23 GEM   5 LEO  17 CAN   6 TAU  13 LEO   8 GEM  

28 LEO                                                          27 LEO                                                  
JUL  22 VIR  18 CAN  14 VIR  12 LEO   5 GEM  10 VIR   3 CAN     GEM  22 VIR  18 CAN  18 VIR  12 LEO   4 GEM   9 VIR   3 CAN  

31 CAN          28 LEO                          31 LEO          31 CAN          27 LEO  
AUG  16 LIB  12 LEO   8 LEO   5 VIR  26 LEO   6 LIB  21 VIR   7 CAN  16 LIB  12 LEO     LEO   5 VIR  25 LEO   6 LIB  21 VIR  

30 LIB                                                          29 LIB                          
SEP  11 SCO   6 VIR     LEO  23 SCO  20 VIR   8 SCO  14 LIB   6 LEO  11 SCO   5 VIR     LEO  23 SCO  19 VIR   9 SCO  14 LIB  

30 LIB                                                          29 LIB                                          
OCT   7 SAG  24 SCO   8 VIR  18 SAG  14 LIB     SCO   9 SCO   3 VIR   7 SAG  23 SCO   8 VIR  18 SAG  14 LIB  31 LIB   8 SCO  

28 LIB                                                          
NOV   5 CAP  17 SAG   8 LIB  12 CAP   7 SCO   7 LIB   2 SAG  21 SCO   5 CAP  16 SAG   8 LIB  11 CAP   7 SCO     LIB   1 SAG  

29 SCO  26 CAP                                                          25 CAP  
DEC  15 AQU  11 CAP   5 SCO   7 AQU   1 SAG     SCO  20 AQU  15 SAG     CAP  10 CAP   4 SCO   7 AQU   1 SAG   2 SCO  20 AQU  

30 SAG          25 CAP                                          30 SAG          25 CAP                  

2020    2021    2022    2023    2024    2025    2026    2027    2028    2029    2030    2031    2032    2033    2034
JAN  13 PIS   8 CAP     CAP   2 AQU  23 CAP   2 PIS  17 AQU   7 SAG  13 PIS   7 CAP     CAP   2 AQU  22 CAP   2 PIS  16 AQU  

26 PIS                                          31 AQU          26 PIS                          
FEB   7 ARI   1 AQU     CAP  20 ARI  16 AQU   4 ARI  10 PIS   3 CAP   7 ARI  24 PIS     CAP  19 ARI  15 AQU   5 ARI   9 PIS  

25 PIS                                                                                                          
MAR   4 TAU  21 ARI   6 AQU  16 TAU  11 PIS  27 PIS   6 ARI   1 AQU   4 TAU  20 ARI   6 AQU  16 TAU  11 PIS  21 ARI   5 ARI  

30 TAU  26 PIS                                                  29 TAU  
APR   3 GEM  14 TAU   5 PIS  10 GEM   4 ARI  30 ARI  23 GEM  19 ARI   3 GEM  14 TAU   5 PIS  10 GEM   4 ARI     ARI  23 GEM  

29 TAU                                                          28 TAU                  
MAY     GEM   8 GEM   2 ARI   7 CAN  23 GEM     ARI  18 CAN  14 TAU     GEM   8 GEM   2 ARI   7 CAN  23 GEM   1 ARI  18 CAN  

28 TAU                                                          27 TAU                                  
JUN     GEM   2 CAN  22 GEM   5 LEO  17 CAN   5 TAU  13 LEO   8 GEM     GEM   1 CAN  22 GEM   5 LEO  16 CAN   5 TAU  12 LEO  

26 LEO                                                          26 LEO                                          
JUL     GEM  21 VIR  17 CAN     LEO  11 LEO   4 GEM   9 VIR   2 CAN     GEM  21 VIR  17 CAN     LEO  10 LEO   4 GEM   9 VIR  

30 CAN          27 LEO                                          30 CAN          
AUG   7 CAN  15 LIB  11 LEO     LEO   4 VIR  25 LEO   6 LIB  20 VIR   7 CAN  15 LIB  11 LEO     LEO   4 VIR  24 LEO   6 LIB  

29 LIB                                                          28 LIB                  
SEP   6 LEO  10 SCO   4 VIR     LEO  22 SCO  19 VIR  10 SCO  13 LIB   5 LEO  10 SCO   4 VIR     LEO  22 SCO  18 VIR  11 SCO  

29 LIB                                                          28 LIB                                  
OCT   2 VIR   7 SAG  23 SCO   8 VIR  17 SAG  13 LIB  25 LIB   7 SCO   2 VIR   6 SAG  22 SCO   9 VIR  17 SAG  13 LIB  18 LIB  

27 LIB                                                          27 LIB                                                  
NOV  21 SCO   5 CAP  16 SAG   8 LIB  11 CAP   6 SCO     LIB   1 SAG  20 SCO   5 CAP  15 SAG   7 LIB  11 CAP   6 SCO     LIB  

30 SAG          25 CAP                                          30 SAG          
DEC  15 SAG     CAP   9 CAP   4 SCO   7 AQU  24 CAP   4 SCO  19 AQU  14 SAG     CAP   9 CAP   4 SCO   6 AQU  23 CAP   5 SCO  

29 SAG                                                          29 SAG                          

4 9 4 • Ve n u s  Ta b l e s



2035    2036    2037    2038    2039    2040    2041    2042    2043    2044    2045    2046    2047    2048    2049
JAN   7 SAG  12 PIS   7 CAP     CAP   1 AQU  22 CAP   2 PIS  16 AQU   6 SAG  12 PIS   6 CAP     CAP   1 AQU  21 CAP   2 PIS  

31 AQU          25 PIS                                          30 AQU          25 PIS                  
FEB   3 CAP   6 ARI  24 PIS     CAP  19 ARI  15 AQU   6 ARI   9 PIS   2 CAP   6 ARI  23 PIS     CAP  18 ARI  14 AQU   8 ARI  

28 AQU                                                          28 AQU                                                  
MAR  25 PIS   4 TAU  20 ARI   6 AQU  15 TAU  10 PIS  14 ARI   5 ARI  25 PIS   4 TAU  19 ARI   6 AQU  15 TAU  10 PIS   8 ARI  

29 TAU                                                          
APR  19 ARI   3 GEM  13 TAU   4 PIS  10 GEM   3 ARI     ARI  22 GEM  18 ARI   4 GEM  12 TAU   4 PIS   9 GEM   3 ARI     ARI  

28 TAU                                                          27 TAU          
MAY  14 TAU     GEM   7 GEM   1 ARI   6 CAN  22 GEM   2 ARI  17 CAN  13 TAU     GEM   7 GEM   1 ARI   6 CAN  21 GEM   3 ARI  

27 TAU                                                  31 CAN  27 TAU                          
JUN   7 GEM     GEM   1 CAN  21 GEM   5 LEO  15 CAN   5 TAU  12 LEO   7 GEM  10 TAU  25 LEO  21 GEM   5 LEO  15 CAN   5 TAU  

25 LEO                                                  25 GEM                                          
JUL   2 CAN     GEM  20 VIR  16 CAN     LEO  10 LEO   3 GEM   8 VIR   1 CAN     GEM  20 VIR  16 CAN     LEO   9 LEO   3 GEM  

26 LEO                                          30 CAN          26 LEO                                          29 CAN  
AUG  20 VIR   7 CAN  15 LIB  10 LEO     LEO   3 VIR  24 LEO   6 LIB  19 VIR   7 CAN  14 LIB   9 LEO     LEO   3 VIR  23 LEO  

28 LIB                                                          27 LIB          
SEP  13 LIB   5 LEO   9 SCO   3 VIR     LEO  21 SCO  18 VIR  13 SCO  12 LIB   5 LEO   9 SCO   3 VIR     LEO  21 SCO  17 VIR  

28 LIB                                                          27 LIB                          
OCT   7 SCO   1 VIR   6 SAG  22 SCO   9 VIR  16 SAG  12 LIB  12 LIB   6 SCO   1 VIR   6 SAG  21 SCO   9 VIR  16 SAG  12 LIB  

31 SAG  26 LIB                                                  31 SAG  26 LIB                                          
NOV  24 CAP  20 SCO   5 CAP  14 SAG   7 LIB  10 CAP   5 SCO     LIB  24 CAP  19 SCO   5 CAP  14 SAG   7 LIB  10 CAP   5 SCO  

29 SAG                                                          29 SAG  
DEC  19 AQU  14 SAG     CAP   8 CAP   3 SCO   6 AQU  23 CAP   6 SCO  18 AQU  13 SAG     CAP   8 CAP   3 SCO   6 AQU  22 CAP  

28 SAG                                                          28 SAG                  

2050    2051    2052    2053    2054    2055    2056    2057    2058    2059    2060    2061    2062    2063    2064
JAN  15 AQU   6 SAG  11 PIS   6 CAP     CAP  24 PIS  21 CAP   2 PIS  15 AQU   6 SAG  11 PIS   5 CAP   8 SAG  24 PIS  20 CAP  

30 AQU                                                          29 AQU  24 CAP                  
FEB   8 PIS   2 CAP   6 ARI  23 PIS     CAP  18 ARI  14 AQU  11 ARI   8 PIS   1 CAP   5 ARI  22 PIS     CAP  17 ARI  13 AQU  

27 AQU                                          28 PIS          27 AQU                                          
MAR   4 ARI  24 PIS   3 TAU  19 ARI   6 AQU  14 TAU   9 PIS     PIS   4 ARI  24 PIS   3 TAU  18 ARI   6 AQU  14 TAU   9 PIS  

28 TAU                                                          28 TAU                                                  
APR  22 GEM  18 ARI   4 GEM  12 TAU   4 PIS   9 GEM   2 ARI     PIS  21 GEM  17 ARI   5 GEM  11 TAU   4 PIS   8 GEM   2 ARI  

30 ARI          27 TAU                                          30 ARI          26 TAU  
MAY  17 CAN  13 TAU     GEM   6 GEM  26 TAU   6 CAN  21 GEM   4 ARI  16 CAN  12 TAU  27 TAU   6 GEM  26 TAU   5 CAN  20 GEM  

31 CAN                                                          30 CAN                          
JUN  11 LEO   6 GEM   2 TAU  24 LEO  20 GEM   5 LEO  14 CAN   5 TAU  11 LEO   6 GEM     TAU  24 LEO  20 GEM   5 LEO  14 CAN  

29 GEM                                                  30 CAN                                          
JUL   8 VIR   1 CAN     GEM  19 VIR  15 CAN     LEO   9 LEO   2 GEM   8 VIR  25 LEO   1 GEM  19 VIR  15 CAN     LEO   8 LEO  

25 LEO                                          29 CAN                                                          
AUG   6 LIB  18 VIR   7 CAN  14 LIB   9 LEO     LEO   2 VIR  23 LEO   6 LIB  18 VIR   7 CAN  13 LIB   8 LEO     LEO   2 VIR  

27 LIB                                                          26 LIB  
SEP  16 SCO  12 LIB   4 LEO   9 SCO   2 VIR     LEO  20 SCO  17 VIR     LIB  11 LIB   4 LEO   8 SCO   2 VIR     LEO  20 SCO  

30 VIR          26 LIB                                          30 VIR          26 LIB                  
OCT   4 LIB   6 SCO  25 LIB   6 SAG  20 SCO   9 VIR  15 SAG  11 LIB     LIB   5 SCO  25 LIB   6 SAG  20 SCO   9 VIR  15 SAG  

30 SAG                                                          30 SAG                                          
NOV     LIB  23 CAP  19 SCO   6 CAP  13 SAG   7 LIB   9 CAP   4 SCO     LIB  23 CAP  18 SCO   6 CAP  13 SAG   6 LIB   9 CAP  

28 SAG                                                          
DEC   6 SCO  18 AQU  13 SAG     CAP   7 CAP   2 SCO   5 AQU  22 CAP   7 SCO  17 AQU  12 SAG     CAP   7 CAP   2 SCO   5 AQU  

31 AQU  27 SAG                                                  31 AQU  27 SAG          

2065    2066    2067    2068    2069    2070    2071    2072    2073    2074    2075    2076    2077    2078    2079
JAN   2 PIS  14 AQU   6 SAG  10 PIS   5 CAP  28 CAP  23 PIS  20 CAP   2 PIS  14 AQU   6 SAG  10 PIS   4 CAP  30 CAP  23 PIS  

29 AQU                                                          28 AQU                  
FEB     PIS   7 PIS   1 CAP   5 ARI  22 PIS     CAP  17 ARI  13 AQU     PIS   6 PIS   1 CAP   4 ARI  21 PIS     CAP  16 ARI  

26 AQU                                                          26 AQU                                  
MAR     PIS   3 ARI  23 PIS   3 TAU  18 ARI   6 AQU  13 TAU   8 PIS     PIS   3 ARI  23 PIS   3 TAU  17 ARI   6 AQU  13 TAU  

27 TAU                                                          27 TAU                                          
APR     PIS  21 GEM  17 ARI   5 GEM  11 TAU   3 PIS   8 GEM   1 ARI     PIS  20 GEM  16 ARI   7 GEM  10 TAU   3 PIS   8 GEM  

30 ARI          25 TAU                                          29 ARI          
MAY   4 ARI  16 CAN  12 TAU  21 TAU   5 GEM  25 TAU   5 CAN  20 GEM   5 ARI  15 CAN  11 TAU  15 TAU   5 GEM  25 TAU   5 CAN  

30 CAN                                                          29 CAN                  
JUN   5 TAU  11 LEO   5 GEM     TAU  23 LEO  19 GEM   6 LEO  13 CAN   4 TAU  10 LEO   5 GEM     TAU  23 LEO  19 GEM   6 LEO  

30 CAN                                                          29 CAN                                  
JUL   2 GEM   7 VIR  24 LEO   2 GEM  18 VIR  14 CAN     LEO   8 LEO   2 GEM   7 VIR  24 LEO   3 GEM  18 VIR  14 CAN     LEO  

28 CAN                                                          28 CAN                                                  
AUG  22 LEO   6 LIB  17 VIR   6 CAN  13 LIB   8 LEO  14 CAN   1 VIR  22 LEO   6 LIB  17 VIR   6 CAN  12 LIB   7 LEO   6 CAN  

27 LEO  26 LIB                                                  31 LEO  
SEP  16 VIR     LIB  11 LIB   3 LEO   8 SCO   1 VIR     LEO  19 SCO  16 VIR     LIB  10 LIB   3 LEO   8 SCO   1 VIR     LEO  

29 VIR          25 LIB                                          29 VIR          25 LIB          
OCT  11 LIB     LIB   5 SCO  24 LIB   5 SAG  19 SCO   9 VIR  14 SAG  10 LIB     LIB   4 SCO  24 LIB   5 SAG  19 SCO   9 VIR  

29 SAG                                                          28 SAG                                  
NOV   4 SCO     LIB  22 CAP  18 SCO   7 CAP  12 SAG   6 LIB   9 CAP   3 SCO     LIB  22 CAP  17 SCO   8 CAP  12 SAG   6 LIB  

27 SAG                                                          27 SAG                                                  
DEC  21 CAP   7 SCO  17 AQU  12 SAG  31 SAG   6 CAP   2 SCO   5 AQU  21 CAP   7 SCO  16 AQU  11 SAG  24 SAG   6 CAP   1 SCO  

30 AQU  26 SAG                                                  30 AQU  26 SAG  

Ve n u s  Ta b l e s • 4 9 5



2080    2081    2082    2083    2084    2085    2086    2087    2088    2089    2090    2091    2092    2093    2094
JAN  19 CAP   2 PIS  13 AQU   5 SAG   9 PIS   4 CAP     SAG  22 PIS  19 CAP   2 PIS  13 AQU   5 SAG   9 PIS   3 CAP     SAG  

31 CAP          28 AQU                                          31 CAP          27 AQU          
FEB  12 AQU     PIS   6 PIS  25 AQU   4 ARI  21 PIS   1 CAP  16 ARI  12 AQU     PIS   5 PIS  25 AQU   4 ARI  20 PIS   2 CAP  
MAR   8 PIS     PIS   2 ARI  22 PIS   3 TAU  17 ARI   6 AQU  12 TAU   7 PIS     PIS   1 ARI  22 PIS   2 TAU  16 ARI   6 AQU  

26 TAU                                          31 ARI          26 TAU                                  
APR   1 ARI     PIS  20 GEM  16 ARI   8 GEM  10 TAU   3 PIS   7 GEM  24 TAU     PIS  19 GEM  15 ARI  11 GEM   9 TAU   2 PIS  

25 TAU                                          29 ARI                                                          28 ARI  
MAY  19 GEM   5 ARI  15 CAN  10 TAU   9 TAU   4 GEM  24 TAU   5 CAN  19 GEM   5 ARI  14 CAN  10 TAU   3 TAU   3 GEM  24 TAU  

29 CAN                                                          28 CAN          
JUN  13 CAN   4 TAU  10 LEO   4 GEM     TAU  22 LEO  18 GEM   7 LEO  12 CAN   4 TAU   9 LEO   3 GEM     TAU  22 LEO  18 GEM  

29 CAN                                                          28 CAN                          
JUL   7 LEO   1 GEM   7 VIR  23 LEO   4 GEM  17 VIR  13 CAN  30 CAN   7 LEO   1 GEM   6 VIR  22 LEO   4 GEM  17 VIR  13 CAN  

27 CAN                                                  31 VIR  27 CAN                                          
AUG   1 VIR  21 LEO   6 LIB  16 VIR   6 CAN  12 LIB   7 LEO     CAN  25 LIB  21 LEO   6 LIB  16 VIR   6 CAN  11 LIB   6 LEO  

25 LIB                                          31 VIR                                                          31 VIR  
SEP  19 SCO  15 VIR     LIB   9 LIB   3 LEO   7 SCO  24 LIB   2 LEO  18 SCO  15 VIR     LIB   9 LIB   2 LEO   7 SCO  24 LIB  

29 VIR                                                          28 VIR                  
OCT  14 SAG   9 LIB     LIB   4 SCO  23 LIB   5 SAG  18 SCO   8 VIR  13 SAG   9 LIB     LIB   3 SCO  23 LIB   5 SAG  18 SCO  

28 SAG                                                          27 SAG                          
NOV   8 CAP   2 SCO     LIB  21 CAP  17 SCO   9 CAP  11 SAG   5 LIB   8 CAP   2 SCO     LIB  21 CAP  16 SCO  11 CAP  11 SAG  

26 SAG                                                          26 SAG                                          
DEC   4 AQU  20 CAP   7 SCO  16 AQU  11 SAG  18 SAG   5 CAP   1 SCO   4 AQU  20 CAP   8 SCO  15 AQU  10 SAG  11 SAG   5 CAP  

29 AQU  25 SAG                                                  29 AQU  

2095    2096    2097    2098    2099    2100    
JAN  22 PIS  18 CAP   2 PIS  12 AQU   5 SAG   9 PIS          

31 CAP                  
FEB  15 ARI  11 AQU     PIS   5 PIS  25 AQU   3 ARI          
MAR  12 TAU   6 PIS     PIS   1 ARI  21 PIS   3 TAU          

31 ARI          25 TAU                          
APR   7 GEM  24 TAU     PIS  19 GEM  15 ARI  18 GEM          

23 TAU          
MAY   4 CAN  18 GEM   5 ARI  14 CAN   9 TAU     TAU          
JUN   7 LEO  12 CAN   3 TAU   9 LEO   3 GEM     TAU          

30 GEM          27 CAN                  
JUL  24 CAN   6 LEO  26 CAN   6 VIR  22 LEO   6 GEM          

31 VIR                                          
AUG     CAN  24 LIB  20 LEO   6 LIB  15 VIR   6 CAN          
SEP   4 LEO  18 SCO  14 VIR     LIB   8 LIB   3 LEO          

29 VIR          
OCT   8 VIR  13 SAG   8 LIB     LIB   3 SCO  23 LIB          

27 SAG                  
NOV   5 LIB   7 CAP   1 SCO     LIB  20 CAP  17 SCO          

30 SCO          25 SAG                                  
DEC  25 SAG   4 AQU  19 CAP   8 SCO  15 AQU  11 SAG   

4 9 6 • Ve n u s  Ta b l e s




Where Is Your Mars?

The follow ing Mars Tables will tell you what Example: You were born May 10, 1975. Locate the year 1975
sign Mars was in on the day of your birth. and the month MAY. You will see that on the 25th of May in

First locate the year you were born. Next, find the month 1975, Mars moved into Cancer. Since you were born on the
of your birth (on the left-hand side of the page) and place a 10th of May, look at the previous month to find Mars’s posi-
ruler across the page under your birth month. tion. You will see that Mars moved into Pisces on the 11th of

The tables list for your month the date on which Mars April and did not move into Aries until the 21th of May.
moved into a new sign.* If no date is given and you see only a Therefore, on May 10th, your birthday, Mars was in Pisces.
sign listed, it means Mars was in that sign throughout the en-
tire month. Example: You were born July 4, 1960. Locate the year 1960

and the month JUL. You will see that Mars was in Taurus
throughout the month of July in 1960. Therefore, your Mars
is in Taurus.

*If you were born on a day on which Mars moved to a new sign, you should use the enclosed CD-ROM to cast your chart. At the time of day you
were born, Mars might still have been in the previous sign because it had not yet entered the new sign. Your computer chart will tell you the exact sign
your Mars is in as well as the exact degree of this sign.

M a r s  Ta b l e s • 4 9 7



1900    1901    1902    1903    1904    1905    1906    1907    1908    1909    1910    1911    1912    1913    1914
JAN  21 AQU     VIR   1 AQU     LIB  19 PIS  13 SCO     PIS     SCO  10 ARI   9 SAG  22 TAU  31 CAP  30 GEM  10 CAP     CAN  
FEB  28 PIS     VIR   8 PIS     LIB  26 ARI     SCO   4 ARI   5 SAG  22 TAU  23 CAP     TAU     CAP     GEM  19 AQU     CAN  
MAR     PIS   1 LEO  18 ARI     LIB     ARI     SCO  17 TAU     SAG     TAU     CAP  14 GEM  13 AQU     GEM  30 PIS     CAN  
APR   7 ARI     LEO  27 TAU  19 VIR   6 TAU     SCO  28 GEM   1 CAP   6 GEM   9 AQU     GEM  23 PIS   5 CAN     PIS     CAN  
MAY  17 TAU  11 VIR     TAU  30 LIB  17 GEM     SCO     GEM     CAP  22 CAN  25 PIS   1 CAN     PIS  28 LEO   7 ARI   1 LEO  
JUN  27 GEM     VIR   7 GEM     LIB  30 CAN     SCO  11 CAN     CAP     CAN     PIS  18 LEO   2 ARI     LEO  16 TAU  25 VIR  
JUL     GEM  13 LIB  20 CAN     LIB     CAN     SCO  27 LEO     CAP   7 LEO  21 ARI     LEO  15 TAU  16 VIR  29 GEM     VIR  
AUG   9 CAN  31 SCO     CAN   6 SCO  14 LEO  21 SAG     LEO     CAP  24 VIR     ARI   5 VIR     TAU     VIR     GEM  14 LIB  
SEP  26 LEO     SCO   4 LEO  22 SAG     LEO     SAG  12 VIR     CAP     VIR  26 PIS  21 LIB   5 GEM   2 LIB  15 CAN  29 SCO  
OCT     LEO  14 SAG  23 VIR     SAG   1 VIR   7 CAP  29 LIB  13 AQU  10 LIB     PIS     LIB     GEM  17 SCO     CAN     SCO  
NOV  23 VIR  23 CAP     VIR   3 CAP  20 LIB  17 AQU     LIB  28 PIS  25 SCO  20 ARI   6 SCO  29 TAU  30 SAG     CAN  11 SAG  
DEC     VIR     CAP  19 LIB  12 AQU     LIB  27 PIS  17 SCO     PIS     SCO     ARI  20 SAG     TAU     SAG     CAN  21 CAP  

1915    1916    1917    1918    1919    1920    1921    1922    1923    1924    1925    1926    1927    1928    1929
JAN  30 AQU     LEO   9 AQU  11 LIB  27 PIS  31 SCO   5 PIS     SCO  21 ARI  19 SAG     ARI     SAG     TAU  18 CAP     GEM  
FEB     AQU     LEO  16 PIS  25 VIR     PIS     SCO  13 ARI  18 SAG     ARI     SAG   5 TAU   8 CAP  21 GEM  28 AQU     GEM  
MAR   9 PIS     LEO  26 ARI     VIR   6 ARI     SCO  25 TAU     SAG   3 TAU   6 CAP  23 GEM  22 AQU     GEM     AQU  10 CAN  
APR  16 ARI     LEO     ARI     VIR  15 TAU  23 LIB     TAU     SAG  15 GEM  24 AQU     GEM     AQU  16 CAN   7 PIS     CAN  
MAY  25 TAU  28 VIR   4 TAU     VIR  26 GEM     LIB   5 GEM     SAG  30 CAN     AQU   9 CAN   3 PIS     CAN  16 ARI  12 LEO  
JUN     TAU     VIR  14 GEM  23 LIB     GEM     LIB  18 CAN     SAG     CAN  24 PIS  26 LEO  14 ARI   6 LEO  26 TAU     LEO  
JUL   6 GEM  23 LIB  27 CAN     LIB   8 CAN  10 SCO     CAN     SAG  15 LEO     PIS     LEO     ARI  25 VIR     TAU   4 VIR  
AUG  19 CAN     LIB     CAN  16 SCO  23 LEO     SCO   3 LEO     SAG  31 VIR  24 AQU  12 VIR   1 TAU     VIR   8 GEM  21 LIB  
SEP     CAN   8 SCO  12 LEO     SCO     LEO   4 SAG  19 VIR  13 CAP     VIR     AQU  28 LIB     TAU  10 LIB     GEM     LIB  
OCT   7 LEO  21 SAG     LEO   1 SAG   9 VIR  18 CAP     VIR  30 AQU  17 LIB  19 PIS     LIB     TAU  25 SCO   2 CAN   6 SCO  
NOV     LEO     SAG   2 VIR  11 CAP  30 LIB  27 AQU   6 LIB     AQU     LIB     PIS  13 SCO     TAU     SCO     CAN  18 SAG  
DEC     LEO   1 CAP     VIR  20 AQU     LIB     AQU  26 SCO  11 PIS   3 SCO  19 ARI  27 SAG     TAU   8 SAG  20 GEM  29 CAP  

1930    1931    1932    1933    1934    1935    1936    1937    1938    1939    1940    1941    1942    1943    1944
JAN     CAP     LEO  17 AQU     VIR     AQU     LIB  14 PIS   5 SCO  30 ARI  29 SAG   3 ARI   4 SAG  11 TAU  26 CAP     GEM  
FEB   6 AQU  16 CAN  24 PIS     VIR   3 PIS     LIB  21 ARI     SCO     ARI     SAG  16 TAU  17 CAP     TAU     CAP     GEM  
MAR  17 PIS  29 LEO     PIS     VIR  14 ARI     LIB     ARI  12 SAG  12 TAU  21 CAP     TAU     CAP   7 GEM   8 AQU  28 CAN  
APR  24 ARI     LEO   3 ARI     VIR  22 TAU     LIB   1 TAU     SAG  23 GEM     CAP   1 GEM   2 AQU  26 CAN  17 PIS     CAN  
MAY     ARI     LEO  12 TAU     VIR     TAU     LIB  13 GEM  14 SCO     GEM  24 AQU  17 CAN  16 PIS     CAN  27 ARI  22 LEO  
JUN   2 TAU  10 VIR  22 GEM     VIR   2 GEM     LIB  25 CAN     SCO   6 CAN     AQU     CAN     PIS  13 LEO     ARI     LEO  
JUL  14 GEM     VIR     GEM   6 LIB  15 CAN  29 SCO     CAN     SCO  22 LEO  21 CAP   3 LEO   2 ARI     LEO   7 TAU  11 VIR  
AUG  28 CAN   1 LIB   4 CAN  26 SCO  30 LEO     SCO  10 LEO   8 SAG     LEO     CAP  19 VIR     ARI   1 VIR  23 GEM  28 LIB  
SEP     CAN  17 SCO  20 LEO     SCO     LEO  16 SAG  26 VIR  30 CAP   7 VIR  23 AQU     VIR     ARI  17 LIB     GEM     LIB  
OCT  20 LEO  30 SAG     LEO   9 SAG  17 VIR  28 CAP     VIR     CAP  25 LIB     AQU   5 LIB     ARI     LIB     GEM  13 SCO  
NOV     LEO     SAG  13 VIR  19 CAP     VIR     CAP  14 LIB  11 AQU     LIB  19 PIS  20 SCO     ARI   1 SCO     GEM  25 SAG  
DEC     LEO   9 CAP     VIR  27 AQU  11 LIB   6 AQU     LIB  21 PIS  11 SCO     PIS     SCO     ARI  15 SAG     GEM     SAG  

1945    1946    1947    1948    1949    1950    1951    1952    1953    1954    1955    1956    1957    1958    1959
JAN   5 CAP     CAN  25 AQU     VIR   4 AQU     LIB  22 PIS  19 SCO     PIS     SCO  14 ARI  13 SAG  28 TAU     SAG     TAU  
FEB  14 AQU     CAN     AQU  12 LEO  11 PIS     LIB     PIS     SCO   7 ARI   9 SAG  26 TAU  28 CAP     TAU   3 CAP  10 GEM  
MAR  24 PIS     CAN   4 PIS     LEO  21 ARI  28 VIR   1 ARI     SCO  20 TAU     SAG     TAU     CAP  17 GEM  17 AQU     GEM  
APR     PIS  22 LEO  11 ARI     LEO  29 TAU     VIR  10 TAU     SCO     TAU  12 CAP  10 GEM  14 AQU     GEM  26 PIS  10 CAN  
MAY   2 ARI     LEO  20 TAU  18 VIR     TAU     VIR  21 GEM     SCO   1 GEM     CAP  25 CAN     AQU   4 CAN     PIS  31 LEO  
JUN  11 TAU  20 VIR  30 GEM     VIR   9 GEM  11 LIB     GEM     SCO  13 CAN     CAP     CAN   3 PIS  21 LEO   7 ARI     LEO  
JUL  23 GEM     VIR     GEM  17 LIB  23 CAN     LIB   3 CAN     SCO  29 LEO   3 SAG  11 LEO     PIS     LEO  21 TAU  20 VIR  
AUG     GEM   9 LIB  13 CAN     LIB     CAN  10 SCO  18 LEO  27 SAG     LEO  24 CAP  27 VIR     PIS   8 VIR     TAU     VIR  
SEP   7 CAN  24 SCO  30 LEO   3 SCO   6 LEO  25 SAG     LEO     SAG  14 VIR     CAP     VIR     PIS  23 LIB  21 GEM   5 LIB  
OCT     CAN     SCO     LEO  17 SAG  26 VIR     SAG   4 VIR  11 CAP     VIR  21 AQU  13 LIB     PIS     LIB  28 TAU  21 SCO  
NOV  11 LEO   6 SAG     LEO  26 CAP     VIR   6 CAP  24 LIB  21 AQU   1 LIB     AQU  28 SCO     PIS   8 SCO     TAU     SCO  
DEC  26 CAN  17 CAP   1 VIR     CAP  26 LIB  15 AQU     LIB  30 PIS  20 SCO   4 PIS     SCO   6 ARI  22 SAG     TAU   3 SAG  

1960    1961    1962    1963    1964    1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974
JAN  14 CAP     CAN     CAP     LEO  13 AQU     VIR  30 PIS     LIB   9 PIS     SCO  24 ARI  22 SAG     ARI     SAG     TAU  
FEB  22 AQU   4 GEM   1 AQU     LEO  20 PIS     VIR     PIS  12 SCO  16 ARI  25 SAG     ARI     SAG  10 TAU  12 CAP  27 GEM  

7 CAN                                                                                                          
MAR     AQU     CAN  12 PIS     LEO  29 ARI     VIR   9 ARI  31 LIB  27 TAU     SAG   6 TAU  12 CAP  26 GEM  26 AQU     GEM  
APR   2 PIS     CAN  19 ARI     LEO     ARI     VIR  17 TAU     LIB     TAU     SAG  18 GEM     CAP     GEM     AQU  20 CAN  
MAY  11 ARI   5 LEO  28 TAU     LEO   7 TAU     VIR  28 GEM     LIB   8 GEM     SAG     GEM   3 AQU  12 CAN   7 PIS     CAN  
JUN  20 TAU  28 VIR     TAU   3 VIR  17 GEM  28 LIB     GEM     LIB  21 CAN     SAG   2 CAN     AQU  28 LEO  20 ARI   8 LEO  
JUL     TAU     VIR   8 GEM  26 LIB  30 CAN     LIB  10 CAN  19 SCO     CAN     SAG  18 LEO     AQU     LEO     ARI  27 VIR  
AUG   1 GEM  16 LIB  22 CAN     LIB     CAN  20 SCO  25 LEO     SCO   5 LEO     SAG     LEO     AQU  14 VIR  12 TAU     VIR  
SEP  20 CAN     LIB     CAN  12 SCO  15 LEO     SCO     LEO   9 SAG  21 VIR  21 CAP   2 VIR     AQU  30 LIB     TAU  12 LIB  
OCT     CAN   1 SCO  11 LEO  25 SAG     LEO   4 SAG  12 VIR  22 CAP     VIR     CAP  20 LIB     AQU     LIB  29 ARI  28 SCO  
NOV     CAN  13 SAG     LEO     SAG   5 VIR  14 CAP     VIR     CAP   9 LIB   4 AQU     LIB   6 PIS  15 SCO     ARI     SCO  
DEC     CAN  24 CAP     LEO   5 CAP     VIR  23 AQU   3 LIB   1 AQU  29 SCO  15 PIS   6 SCO  26 ARI  30 SAG  24 TAU  10 SAG  

1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
JAN  21 CAP     GEM     CAP  25 CAN  20 AQU     VIR     AQU     LIB  17 PIS  10 SCO     PIS     SCO   8 ARI   8 SAG  19 TAU  
FEB     CAP     GEM   9 AQU     CAN  27 PIS     VIR   6 PIS     LIB  24 ARI     SCO   2 ARI   2 SAG  20 TAU  22 CAP     TAU  
MAR   3 AQU  18 CAN  19 PIS     CAN     PIS  11 LEO  16 ARI     LIB     ARI     SCO  15 TAU  27 CAP     TAU     CAP  11 GEM  
APR  11 PIS     CAN  27 ARI  10 LEO   6 ARI     LEO  25 TAU     LIB   5 TAU     SCO  26 GEM     CAP   5 GEM   6 AQU  28 CAN  
MAY  21 ARI  16 LEO     ARI     LEO  15 TAU   3 VIR     TAU     LIB  16 GEM     SCO     GEM     CAP  20 CAN  22 PIS     CAN  
JUN  30 TAU     LEO   5 TAU  13 VIR  25 GEM     VIR   5 GEM     LIB  29 CAN     SCO   9 CAN     CAP     CAN     PIS  16 LEO  
JUL     TAU   6 VIR  17 GEM     VIR     GEM  10 LIB  18 CAN     LIB     CAN     SCO  24 LEO     CAP   6 LEO  13 ARI     LEO  
AUG  14 GEM  24 LIB  31 CAN   4 LIB   8 CAN  29 SCO     CAN   3 SCO  13 LEO  17 SAG     LEO     CAP  22 VIR     ARI   3 VIR  
SEP     GEM     LIB     CAN  19 SCO  24 LEO     SCO   1 LEO  19 SAG  29 VIR     SAG   9 VIR     CAP     VIR     ARI  19 LIB  
OCT  17 CAN   8 SCO  26 LEO     SCO     LEO  12 SAG  20 VIR  31 CAP     VIR   5 CAP  27 LIB   8 AQU   8 LIB  23 PIS     LIB  
NOV  25 GEM  20 SAG     LEO   1 SAG  19 VIR  21 CAP     VIR     CAP  18 LIB  15 AQU     LIB  25 PIS  23 SCO   1 ARI   4 SCO  
DEC     GEM  31 CAP     LEO  12 CAP     VIR  30 AQU  15 LIB  10 AQU     LIB  25 PIS  14 SCO     PIS     SCO     ARI  17 SAG  

4 9 8 • M a r s  Ta b l e s



1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
JAN  29 CAP  20 GEM   9 CAP     CAN  27 AQU  22 LEO   8 AQU   3 LIB  25 PIS  26 SCO   3 PIS     SCO  18 ARI  16 SAG     ARI  
FEB     CAP     GEM  17 AQU     CAN     AQU     LEO  15 PIS     LIB     PIS     SCO  11 ARI  14 SAG     ARI     SAG   3 TAU  
MAR  11 AQU     GEM  27 PIS     CAN   7 PIS     LEO  24 ARI   8 VIR   4 ARI     SCO  22 TAU     SAG   1 TAU   4 CAP  21 GEM  
APR  20 PIS   2 CAN     PIS  27 LEO  14 ARI     LEO     ARI     VIR  12 TAU     SCO     TAU     SAG  13 GEM  21 AQU     GEM  
MAY  31 ARI  26 LEO   5 ARI     LEO  23 TAU  25 VIR   2 TAU     VIR  23 GEM   5 LIB   3 GEM     SAG  28 CAN     AQU   7 CAN  
JUN     ARI     LEO  14 TAU  23 VIR     TAU     VIR  12 GEM  19 LIB     GEM     LIB  16 CAN     SAG     CAN  16 PIS  23 LEO  
JUL  12 TAU  15 VIR  26 GEM     VIR   3 GEM  21 LIB  25 CAN     LIB   6 CAN   4 SCO  31 LEO     SAG  13 LEO     PIS     LEO  
AUG  31 GEM     VIR     GEM  11 LIB  16 CAN     LIB     CAN  14 SCO  20 LEO     SCO     LEO     SAG  29 VIR     PIS  10 VIR  
SEP     GEM   1 LIB  12 CAN  26 SCO     CAN   7 SCO   9 LEO  28 SAG     LEO   2 SAG  16 VIR   8 CAP     VIR     PIS  26 LIB  
OCT     GEM  16 SCO     CAN     SCO   4 LEO  20 SAG  30 VIR     SAG   7 VIR  16 CAP     VIR  27 AQU  15 LIB     PIS     LIB  
NOV     GEM  28 SAG     CAN   9 SAG     LEO  30 CAP     VIR   9 CAP  27 LIB  26 AQU   3 LIB     AQU     LIB     PIS  11 SCO  
DEC  14 TAU     SAG     CAN  19 CAP  12 VIR     CAP     VIR  18 AQU     LIB     AQU  23 SCO   8 PIS   1 SCO  16 ARI  25 SAG  

2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014    2015    2016    2017    2018    2019
JAN     SAG     TAU  16 CAP     GEM     CAP     LEO  15 AQU     VIR     AQU     LIB  12 PIS   3 SCO  28 ARI  26 SAG     ARI  
FEB   6 CAP  17 GEM  25 AQU     GEM   4 AQU     LEO  22 PIS     VIR   1 PIS     LIB  19 ARI     SCO     ARI     SAG  14 TAU  
MAR  20 AQU     GEM     AQU   4 CAN  14 PIS     LEO     PIS     VIR  12 ARI     LIB  31 TAU   5 SAG   9 TAU  17 CAP  31 GEM  
APR  30 PIS  13 CAN   6 PIS     CAN  22 ARI     LEO   1 ARI     VIR  20 TAU     LIB     TAU     SAG  21 GEM     CAP     GEM  
MAY     PIS     CAN  15 ARI   9 LEO  31 TAU     LEO  11 TAU     VIR  31 GEM     LIB  11 GEM  27 SCO     GEM  15 AQU  15 CAN  
JUN  11 ARI   3 LEO  24 TAU     LEO     TAU   7 VIR  20 GEM     VIR     GEM     LIB  24 CAN     SCO   4 CAN     AQU     CAN  
JUL  28 TAU  22 VIR     TAU   1 VIR  11 GEM  29 LIB     GEM   3 LIB  13 CAN  25 SCO     CAN     SCO  20 LEO     AQU   1 LEO  
AUG     TAU     VIR   7 GEM  19 LIB  25 CAN     LIB   3 CAN  23 SCO  27 LEO     SCO   8 LEO   2 SAG     LEO  12 CAP  18 VIR  
SEP     TAU   7 LIB  28 CAN     LIB     CAN  14 SCO  18 LEO     SCO     LEO  13 SAG  24 VIR  27 CAP   5 VIR  10 AQU     VIR  
OCT     TAU  23 SCO     CAN   3 SCO  16 LEO  28 SAG     LEO   6 SAG  15 VIR  26 CAP     VIR     CAP  22 LIB     AQU   3 LIB  
NOV     TAU     SCO     CAN  16 SAG     LEO     SAG  10 VIR  16 CAP     VIR     CAP  12 LIB   9 AQU     LIB  15 PIS  19 SCO  
DEC     TAU   5 SAG  31 GEM  27 CAP     LEO   7 CAP     VIR  25 AQU   7 LIB   4 AQU     LIB  19 PIS   9 SCO  31 ARI     SCO  

2020    2021    2022    2023    2024    2025    2026    2027    2028    2029    2030    2031    2032    2033    2034
JAN   3 SAG   6 TAU  24 CAP     GEM   4 CAP   6 CAN  23 AQU     VIR   3 AQU     LIB  20 PIS  15 SCO     PIS     SCO  12 ARI  
FEB  16 CAP     TAU     CAP     GEM  13 AQU     CAN     AQU  21 LEO  10 PIS     LIB  27 ARI     SCO   6 ARI   6 SAG  23 TAU  
MAR  30 AQU   3 GEM   6 AQU  25 CAN  22 PIS     CAN   2 PIS     LEO  19 ARI     LIB     ARI     SCO  17 TAU     SAG     TAU  
APR     AQU  23 CAN  14 PIS     CAN  30 ARI  17 LEO   9 ARI     LEO  27 TAU   7 VIR   8 TAU     SCO  28 GEM   6 CAP   8 GEM  
MAY  12 PIS     CAN  24 ARI  20 LEO     ARI     LEO  18 TAU  14 VIR     TAU     VIR  19 GEM     SCO     GEM     CAP  23 CAN  
JUN  27 ARI  11 LEO     ARI     LEO   8 TAU  17 VIR  28 GEM     VIR   7 GEM   4 LIB     GEM     SCO  11 CAN     CAP     CAN  
JUL     ARI  29 VIR   5 TAU  10 VIR  20 GEM     VIR     GEM  15 LIB  20 CAN     LIB   1 CAN     SCO  27 LEO  26 SAG   8 LEO  
AUG     ARI     VIR  20 GEM  27 LIB     GEM   6 LIB  11 CAN     LIB     CAN   7 SCO  15 LEO  25 SAG     LEO   6 CAP  24 VIR  
SEP     ARI  14 LIB     GEM     LIB   4 CAN  22 SCO  27 LEO   1 SCO   4 LEO  23 SAG     LEO     SAG  12 VIR     CAP     VIR  
OCT     ARI  30 SCO     GEM  11 SCO     CAN     SCO     LEO  15 SAG  23 VIR     SAG   2 VIR  10 CAP  29 LIB  17 AQU  10 LIB  
NOV     ARI     SCO     GEM  24 SAG   3 LEO   4 SAG  25 VIR  25 CAP     VIR   3 CAP  21 LIB  20 AQU     LIB     AQU  26 SCO  
DEC     ARI  13 SAG     GEM     SAG     LEO  15 CAP     VIR     CAP  21 LIB  13 AQU     LIB  29 PIS  17 SCO   1 PIS     SCO  

2035    2036    2037    2038    2039    2040    2041    2042    2043    2044    2045    2046    2047    2048    2049
JAN  11 SAG  26 TAU     SAG     TAU  11 CAP     CAN  30 AQU     LEO  10 AQU  19 LIB  27 PIS     LIB   7 PIS     SCO  22 ARI  
FEB  25 CAP     TAU   1 CAP   4 GEM  20 AQU     CAN     AQU     LEO  18 PIS  12 VIR     PIS   4 SCO  14 ARI  21 SAG     ARI  
MAR     CAP  14 GEM  14 AQU     GEM  31 PIS     CAN  10 PIS     LEO  28 ARI     VIR   7 ARI     SCO  26 TAU     SAG   4 TAU  
APR  12 AQU     GEM  24 PIS   6 CAN     PIS     CAN  17 ARI     LEO     ARI     VIR  15 TAU  11 LIB     TAU     SAG  16 GEM  
MAY  30 PIS   1 CAN     PIS  29 LEO   9 ARI   2 LEO  26 TAU  30 VIR   6 TAU     VIR  26 GEM     LIB   7 GEM     SAG  30 CAN  
JUN     PIS  18 LEO   4 ARI     LEO  18 TAU  25 VIR     TAU     VIR  16 GEM  24 LIB     GEM     LIB  19 CAN     SAG     CAN  
JUL     PIS     LEO  17 TAU  17 VIR  31 GEM     VIR   6 GEM  24 LIB  29 CAN     LIB   8 CAN  15 SCO     CAN     SAG  15 LEO  
AUG     PIS   5 VIR     TAU     VIR     GEM  14 LIB  19 CAN     LIB     CAN  17 SCO  22 LEO     SCO   4 LEO     SAG  31 VIR  
SEP     PIS  21 LIB  11 GEM   3 LIB  18 CAN  29 SCO     CAN   9 SCO  13 LEO     SCO     LEO   7 SAG  20 VIR  17 CAP     VIR  
OCT     PIS     LIB     GEM  18 SCO     CAN     SCO   8 LEO  23 SAG     LEO   1 SAG   9 VIR  20 CAP     VIR     CAP  17 LIB  
NOV     PIS   6 SCO  12 TAU     SCO     CAN  11 SAG     LEO     SAG   3 VIR  11 CAP  30 LIB  29 AQU   7 LIB   1 AQU     LIB  
DEC   1 ARI  20 SAG     TAU   1 SAG     CAN  22 CAP     LEO   3 CAP     VIR  20 AQU     LIB     AQU  27 SCO  12 PIS   3 SCO  

2050    2051    2052    2053    2054    2055    2056    2057    2058    2059    2060    2061    2062    2063    2064
JAN  20 SAG     ARI     SAG     TAU  19 CAP     GEM     CAP     LEO  18 AQU     VIR     AQU     LIB  15 PIS   7 SCO     PIS  
FEB     SAG   7 TAU  10 CAP  23 GEM  28 AQU     GEM   8 AQU   4 CAN  25 PIS     VIR   5 PIS     LIB  22 ARI     SCO   1 ARI  
MAR   9 CAP  25 GEM  24 AQU     GEM     AQU  14 CAN  17 PIS     CAN     PIS  25 LEO  14 ARI     LIB     ARI  23 SAG  12 TAU  
APR  29 AQU     GEM     AQU  17 CAN   9 PIS     CAN  25 ARI   3 LEO   4 ARI  24 VIR  22 TAU     LIB   3 TAU  25 SCO  23 GEM  
MAY     AQU  10 CAN   5 PIS     CAN  18 ARI  14 LEO     ARI     LEO  13 TAU     VIR     TAU     LIB  14 GEM     SCO     GEM  
JUN     AQU  26 LEO  17 ARI   6 LEO  28 TAU     LEO   3 TAU  10 VIR  23 GEM     VIR   2 GEM     LIB  26 CAN     SCO   6 CAN  
JUL     AQU     LEO     ARI  24 VIR     TAU   5 VIR  14 GEM     VIR     GEM   8 LIB  15 CAN  30 SCO     CAN     SCO  22 LEO  
AUG     AQU  13 VIR   6 TAU     VIR  11 GEM  22 LIB  28 CAN   1 LIB   5 CAN  27 SCO  30 LEO     SCO  11 LEO  14 SAG     LEO  
SEP     AQU  29 LIB     TAU  10 LIB     GEM     LIB     CAN  17 SCO  21 LEO     SCO     LEO  17 SAG  27 VIR     SAG   7 VIR  
OCT  31 PIS     LIB     TAU  25 SCO   8 CAN   7 SCO  21 LEO  30 SAG     LEO  10 SAG  18 VIR  29 CAP     VIR   3 CAP  24 LIB  
NOV     PIS  14 SCO  18 ARI     SCO     CAN  19 SAG     LEO     SAG  15 VIR  20 CAP     VIR     CAP  15 LIB  14 AQU     LIB  
DEC  23 ARI  29 SAG  10 TAU   8 SAG   7 GEM  30 CAP     LEO  10 CAP     VIR  29 AQU  11 LIB   7 AQU     LIB  23 PIS  11 SCO  

2065    2066    2067    2068    2069    2070    2071    2072    2073    2074    2075    2076    2077    2078    2079
JAN  30 SAG   5 ARI   5 SAG  16 TAU  27 CAP     GEM   7 CAP     CAN  25 AQU     VIR   6 AQU     LIB  23 PIS  21 SCO   1 PIS  
FEB     SAG  17 TAU  19 CAP     TAU     CAP     GEM  15 AQU     CAN     AQU   2 LEO  13 PIS     LIB     PIS     SCO   9 ARI  
MAR  23 CAP     TAU     CAP   8 GEM   9 AQU  30 CAN  26 PIS     CAN   5 PIS     LEO  23 ARI  18 VIR   2 ARI     SCO  21 TAU  
APR     CAP   2 GEM   4 AQU  26 CAN  18 PIS     CAN     PIS  23 LEO  12 ARI     LEO     ARI     VIR  10 TAU     SCO     TAU  
MAY     CAP  18 CAN  19 PIS     CAN  28 ARI  23 LEO   4 ARI     LEO  21 TAU  21 VIR   1 TAU     VIR  21 GEM  18 LIB   2 GEM  
JUN     CAP     CAN     PIS  13 LEO     ARI     LEO  13 TAU  20 VIR     TAU     VIR  11 GEM  14 LIB     GEM  25 SCO  14 CAN  
JUL     CAP   4 LEO   8 ARI  31 VIR   9 TAU  12 VIR  25 GEM     VIR   1 GEM  18 LIB  24 CAN     LIB   3 CAN     SCO  30 LEO  
AUG     CAP  20 VIR     ARI     VIR  26 GEM  29 LIB     GEM   9 LIB  14 CAN     LIB     CAN  11 SCO  18 LEO  30 SAG     LEO  
SEP     CAP     VIR     ARI  16 LIB     GEM     LIB   9 CAN  24 SCO     CAN   4 SCO   8 LEO  26 SAG     LEO     SAG  15 VIR  
OCT   3 AQU   6 LIB     ARI     LIB     GEM  14 SCO     CAN     SCO   1 LEO  18 SAG  28 VIR     SAG   4 VIR  14 CAP     VIR  
NOV  22 PIS  21 SCO     ARI   1 SCO     GEM  26 SAG  22 LEO   6 SAG     LEO  28 CAP     VIR   6 CAP  24 LIB  23 AQU   2 LIB  
DEC     PIS     SCO     ARI  15 SAG     GEM     SAG  11 CAN  17 CAP   4 VIR     CAP  28 LIB  15 AQU     LIB     AQU  21 SCO  

M a r s  Ta b l e s • 4 9 9



2080    2081    2082    2083    2084    2085    2086    2087    2088    2089    2090    2091    2092    2093    2094
JAN     SCO  16 ARI  14 SAG  31 TAU     SAG     TAU  14 CAP  12 GEM     CAP     LEO  13 AQU     VIR  31 PIS     LIB  10 PIS  
FEB  11 SAG  27 TAU     SAG     TAU   5 CAP  13 GEM  23 AQU  24 CAN   3 AQU     LEO  20 PIS     VIR     PIS  22 SCO  17 ARI  
MAR     SAG     TAU   1 CAP  19 GEM  18 AQU     GEM     AQU     CAN  12 PIS     LEO  30 ARI     VIR   9 ARI  12 LIB  29 TAU  
APR  22 CAP  11 GEM  18 AQU     GEM  28 PIS  10 CAN   3 PIS     CAN  20 ARI     LEO     ARI     VIR  18 TAU     LIB     TAU  
MAY     CAP  25 CAN     AQU   5 CAN     PIS  31 LEO  13 ARI   7 LEO  29 TAU     LEO   8 TAU     VIR  28 GEM     LIB   9 GEM  
JUN   5 SAG     CAN  10 PIS  22 LEO   8 ARI     LEO  22 TAU  29 VIR     TAU   3 VIR  18 GEM  30 LIB     GEM     LIB  22 CAN  
JUL     SAG  10 LEO     PIS     LEO  24 TAU  20 VIR     TAU     VIR   9 GEM  27 LIB  31 CAN     LIB  11 CAN  21 SCO     CAN  
AUG     SAG  26 VIR     PIS   8 VIR     TAU     VIR   4 GEM  17 LIB  22 CAN     LIB     CAN  21 SCO  25 LEO     SCO   6 LEO  
SEP   3 CAP     VIR     PIS  24 LIB     TAU   5 LIB  24 CAN     LIB     CAN  12 SCO  16 LEO     SCO     LEO  10 SAG  22 VIR  
OCT  24 AQU  13 LIB     PIS     LIB     TAU  21 SCO     CAN   2 SCO  12 LEO  25 SAG     LEO   5 SAG  12 VIR  23 CAP     VIR  
NOV     AQU  28 SCO     PIS   9 SCO     TAU     SCO     CAN  14 SAG     LEO     SAG   7 VIR  15 CAP     VIR     CAP  10 LIB  
DEC   6 PIS     SCO  12 ARI  24 SAG     TAU   3 SAG     CAN  25 CAP     LEO   5 CAP     VIR  24 AQU   4 LIB   2 AQU  31 SCO  

2095    2096    2097    2098    2099    2100    
JAN     SCO  26 ARI  23 SAG     ARI     SAG   1 TAU          
FEB     SCO     ARI     SAG  11 TAU  13 CAP     TAU          
MAR   1 SAG   7 TAU  14 CAP  28 GEM  28 AQU   1 GEM          
APR     SAG  18 GEM     CAP     GEM     AQU  21 CAN          
MAY     SAG     GEM   9 AQU  13 CAN  11 PIS     CAN          
JUN  11 SCO   2 CAN     AQU  29 LEO  25 ARI   9 LEO          
JUL  25 SAG  17 LEO     AQU     LEO     ARI  28 VIR          
AUG     SAG     LEO     AQU  15 VIR  25 TAU     VIR          
SEP  24 CAP   2 VIR     AQU     VIR     TAU  13 LIB          
OCT     CAP  20 LIB     AQU   1 LIB   2 ARI  29 SCO          
NOV   7 AQU     LIB  11 PIS  16 SCO     ARI     SCO          
DEC  17 PIS   6 SCO  28 ARI  31 SAG     ARI  11 SAG          

5 0 0 • M a r s  Ta b l e s




Where Is Your Jupiter?

The follow ing Jupiter Tables will tell you To use these tables, simply locate the year of your birth.*
what sign Jupiter was in on the day of your birth. Be- You will see at a glance exactly what signs Jupiter was in dur-

cause Jupiter travels through the zodiac at a much slower rate ing that year. If there is only one sign listed for a specific year,
than Mercury, Venus, or Mars, these Jupiter Tables are much it means Jupiter was in that sign throughout the entire year.
shorter than the tables for previous planets.

*The computer chart you get using the enclosed CD-ROM will not only tell you the sign your Jupiter is in, but the exact degree of this sign.

Ju p i t e r  Ta b l e s • 5 0 1



1900          SAG 1923   JAN 1 –NOV 23 SCO 1946   JAN 1 –SEP 24 LIB
NOV 24–DEC 31 SAG SEP 25–DEC 31 SCO

1901   JAN 1 –JAN 18 SAG
JAN 19–DEC 31 CAP 1924   JAN 1 –DEC 17 SAG 1947   JAN 1 –OCT 22 SCO

DEC 18–DEC 31 CAP OCT 23–DEC 31 SAG
1902   JAN 1 –FEB 5  CAP

FEB 6 –DEC 31 AQU 1925          CAP 1948   JAN 1 –NOV 14 SAG
NOV 15–DEC 31 CAP

1903   JAN 1 –FEB 19 AQU 1926   JAN 1 –JAN 4  CAP
FEB 20–DEC 31 PIS JAN 5 –DEC 31 AQU 1949   JAN 1 –APR 11 CAP

APR 12–JUN 26 AQU
1904   JAN 1 –FEB 28 PIS 1927  JAN 1 –JAN 17 AQU JUN 27–NOV 29 CAP

FEB 29–AUG 7  ARI JAN 18–JUN 5  PIS NOV 30–DEC 31 AQU
AUG 8 –AUG 30 TAU JUN 6 –SEP 9  ARI
AUG 31–DEC 31 ARI SEP 10–DEC 31 ARI 1950   JAN 1 –APR 14 AQU

APR 15–SEP 13 PIS
1905   JAN 1 –MAR 6  ARI 1928 JAN 1 –JAN 21 ARI SEP 14–NOV 30 AQU

MAR 7 –JUL 19 TAU JAN 22–JUN 2  ARI DEC 1 –DEC 31 PIS
JUL 20–DEC 3  GEM JUN 3 –DEC 31 TAU
DEC 4 –DEC 31 TAU 1951   JAN 1 –APR 20 PIS

1929   JAN 1 –JUN 11 TAU APR 21–DEC 31 ARI
1906   JAN 1 –MAR 8  TAU JUN 12–DEC 31 GEM

MAR 9 –JUL 29 GEM 1952   JAN 1 –APR 27 ARI
JUL 30–DEC 31 CAN 1930   JAN 1 –JUN 25 GEM APR 28–DEC 31 TAU

JUN 26–DEC 31 CAN
1907 JAN 1 –AUG 17 CAN 1953   JAN 1 –MAY 8  TAU

AUG 18–DEC 31 LEO 1931   JAN 1 –JUL 16 CAN MAY 9 –DEC 31 GEM
JUL 17–DEC 31 LEO

1908   JAN 1 –SEP 11 LEO 1954   JAN 1 –MAY 22 GEM
SEP 12–DEC 31 VIR 1932   JAN 1 –AUG 10 LEO MAY 23–DEC 31 CAN

AUG 11–DEC 31 VIR
1909   JAN 1 –OCT 10 VIR 1955   JAN 1 –JUN 11 CAN

OCT 11–DEC 31 LIB 1933  JAN 1 –SEP 9  VIR JUN 12–NOV 15 LEO
SEP 10–DEC 31 LIB NOV 16–DEC 31 VIR

1910   JAN 1 –NOV 10 LIB
NOV 11–DEC 31 SCO 1934  JAN 1 –OCT 9  LIB 1956   JAN 1 –JAN 16 VIR

OCT 10–DEC 31 SCO JAN 17–JUL 6  LEO
1911   JAN 1 –DEC 9  SCO JUL 7 –DEC 11 VIR

DEC 10–DEC 31 SAG 1935   JAN 1 –NOV 7  SCO DEC 12–DEC 31 LIB
NOV 8 –DEC 31 SAG

1912          SAG 1957   JAN 1 –FEB 18 LIB
1936   JAN 1 –DEC 1  SAG FEB 19–AUG 5  VIR

1913   JAN 1 –JAN 1  SAG DEC 2 –DEC 31 CAP AUG 6 –DEC 31 LIB
JAN 2 –DEC 31 CAP

1937   JAN 1 –DEC 18 CAP 1958   JAN 1 –JAN 12 LIB
1914   JAN 1 –JAN 20 CAP DEC 19–DEC 31 AQU JAN 13–MAR 19 SCO

JAN 21–DEC 31 AQU MAR 20–SEP 6  LIB
1938   JAN 1 –MAY 13 AQU SEP 7 –DEC 31 SCO

1915   JAN 1 –FEB 2  AQU MAY 14–JUL 28 PIS
FEB 3 –DEC 31 PIS JUL 29–DEC 28 AQU 1959   JAN 1 –FEB 9  SCO

DEC 29–DEC 31 PIS FEB 10–APR 23 SAG
1916   JAN 1 –FEB 11 PIS APR 24–OCT 4  SCO

FEB 12–JUN 24 ARI 1939   JAN 1 –MAY 10 PIS OCT 5 –DEC 31 SAG
JUN 25–OCT 25 TAU MAY 11–OCT 28 ARI
OCT 26–DEC 31 ARI OCT 29–DEC 19 PIS 1960   JAN 1 –FEB 28 SAG

DEC 20–DEC 31 ARI MAR 1 –JUN 8  CAP
1917   JAN 1 –FEB 11 ARI JUN 9 –OCT 24 SAG

FEB 12–JUN 28 TAU 1940   JAN 1 –MAY 15 ARI OCT 25–DEC 31 CAP
JUN 29–DEC 31 GEM MAY 16–DEC 31 TAU

1961   JAN 1 –MAR 14 CAP
1918   JAN 1 –JUL 12 GEM 1941   JAN 1 –MAY 25 TAU MAR 15–AUG 11 AQU

JUL 13–DEC 31 CAN MAY 26–DEC 31 GEM AUG 12–NOV 2  CAP
NOV 3 –DEC 31 AQU

1919   JAN 1 –AUG 1  CAN 1942   JAN 1 –JUN 9  GEM
AUG 2 –DEC 31 LEO JUN 10–DEC 31 CAN 1962   JAN 1 –MAR 24 AQU

MAR 25–DEC 31 PIS
1920   JAN 1 –AUG 26 LEO 1943   JAN 1 –JUN 29 CAN

AUG 27–DEC 31 VIR JUN 30–DEC 31 LEO 1963   JAN 1 –APR 2  PIS
1944   JAN 1 –JUL 24 LEO APR 3 –DEC 31 ARI

1921   JAN 1 –SEP 24 VIR JUL 25–DEC 31 VIR
SEP 25–DEC 31 LIB 1964   JAN 1 –APR 11 ARI

1922   JAN 1 –OCT 25 LIB 1945   JAN 1 –AUG 24 VIR APR 12–DEC 31 TAU
OCT 26–DEC 31 SCO AUG 25–DEC 31 LIB

5 0 2 • Ju p i t e r  Ta b l e s



1965   JAN 1 –APR 21 TAU 1982   JAN 1 –DEC 24 SCO 2005 JAN 1 –OCT 24 LIB
APR 22–SEP 19 GEM DEC 25–DEC 31 SAG OCT 25–DEC 31 SCO
SEP 20–NOV 15 CAN
NOV 16–DEC 31 GEM 1983          SAG 2006 JAN 1 –NOV 22 SCO

NOV 23–DEC 31 SAG
1966   JAN 1 –MAY 4  GEM 1984   JAN 1 –JAN 18 SAG

MAY 5 –SEP 26 CAN JAN 19–DEC 31 CAP 2007 JAN 1 –DEC 17 SAG
SEP 27–DEC 31 LEO DEC 18–DEC 31 CAP

1985   JAN 1 –FEB 5  CAP
1967   JAN 1 –JAN 14 LEO FEB 6 –DEC 31 AQU 2008 CAP

JAN 15–MAY 22 CAN
MAY 23–OCT 18 LEO 1986   JAN 1 –FEB 19 AQU 2009 JAN 1 –JAN 4  CAP
OCT 19–DEC 31 VIR FEB 20–DEC 31 PIS JAN 5 –DEC 31 AQU

1968   JAN 1 –FEB 25 VIR 1987   JAN 1 –MAR 1  PIS 2010   JAN 1 –JAN 16 AQU
FEB 26–JUN 14 LEO MAR 2 –DEC 31 ARI JAN 17–JUN 5  PIS
JUN 15–NOV 14 VIR JUN 6 –SEP 7  ARI
NOV 15–DEC 31 LIB 1988   JAN 1 –MAR 7  ARI SEP 8 –DEC 31 PIS

MAR 8 –JUL 20 TAU
1969   JAN 1 –MAR 29 LIB JUL 21–NOV 29 GEM 2011 JAN 1 –JAN 21 PIS

MAR 30–JUL 14 VIR NOV 30–DEC 31 TAU JAN 22–JUN 3  ARI
JUL 15–DEC 15 LIB JUN 4 –DEC 31 TAU
DEC 16–DEC 31 SCO 1989   JAN 1 –MAR 9  TAU

MAR 10–JUL 29 GEM 2012 JAN 1 –JUN 10 TAU
1970   JAN 1 –APR 29 SCO JUL 30–DEC 31 CAN JUN 11–DEC 31 GEM

APR 30–AUG 14 LIB
AUG 15–DEC 31 SCO 1990   JAN 1 –AUG 17 CAN 2013 JAN 1 –JUN 24 GEM

AUG 18–DEC 31 LEO JUN 25–DEC 31 CAN
1971   JAN 1 –JAN 13 SCO

JAN 14–JUN 3  SAG 1991   JAN 1 –SEP 11 LEO 2014 JAN 1 –JUL 15 CAN
JUN 4 –SEP 10 SCO SEP 12–DEC 31 VIR JUL 16–DEC 31 LEO
SEP 11–DEC 31 SAG

1992   JAN 1 –OCT 9  VIR 2015 JAN 1 –AUG 10 LEO
1972   JAN 1 –FEB 5  SAG OCT 10–DEC 31 LIB AUG 11–DEC 31 VIR

FEB 6 –JUL 23 CAP
JUL 24–SEP 24 SAG 1993   JAN 1 –NOV 9  LIB 2016 JAN 1 –SEP 8  VIR
SEP 25–DEC 31 CAP NOV 10–DEC 31 SCO SEP 9 –DEC 31 LIB

1973   JAN 1 –FEB 22 CAP 1994   JAN 1 –DEC 8  SCO 2017 JAN 1 –OCT 9  LIB
FEB 23–DEC 31 AQU DEC 9 –DEC 31 SAG OCT 10–DEC 31 SCO

1974   JAN 1 –MAR 7  AQU 1995 SAG 2018 JAN 1 –NOV 7  SCO
MAR 8 –DEC 31 PIS NOV 8 –DEC 31 SAG

1996 JAN 1 –JAN 2  SAG
1975   JAN 1 –MAR 17 PIS JAN 3 –DEC 31 CAP 2019 JAN 1 –DEC 1  SAG

MAR 18–DEC 31 ARI DEC 2 –DEC 31 CAP
1997 JAN 1 –JAN 20 CAP

1976   JAN 1 –MAR 25 ARI JAN 21–DEC 31 AQU 2020 JAN 1 –DEC 18 CAP
MAR 26–AUG 22 TAU DEC 19–DEC 31 AQU
AUG 23–OCT 15 GEM 1998 JAN 1 –FEB 3  AQU
OCT 16–DEC 31 TAU FEB 4 –DEC 31 PIS 2021 JAN 1 –MAY 12 AQU

MAY 13–JUL 27 PIS
1977   JAN 1 –APR 2  TAU 1999 JAN 1 –FEB 11 PIS JUL 28–DEC 27 AQU

APR 3 –AUG 19 GEM FEB 12–JUN 27 ARI DEC 28–DEC 31 PIS
AUG 20–DEC 29 CAN JUN 28–OCT 22 TAU
DEC 30–DEC 31 GEM OCT 23–DEC 31 ARI 2022 JAN 1 –MAY 9  PIS

MAY 10–OCT 27 ARI
1978   JAN 1 –APR 10 GEM 2000 JAN 1 –FEB 13 ARI OCT 28–DEC 19 PIS

APR 11–SEP 4  CAN FEB 14–JUN 29 TAU DEC 20–DEC 31 ARI
SEP 5 –DEC 31 LEO JUN 30–DEC 31 GEM

2001 JAN 1 –JUL 11 GEM 2023 JAN 1 –MAY 15 ARI
1979   JAN 1 –FEB 27 LEO JUL 12–DEC 31 CAN MAY 16–DEC 31 TAU

FEB 28–APR 19 CAN
APR 20–SEP 28 LEO 2002   JAN 1 –JUL 31 CAN 2024 JAN 1 –MAY 24 TAU
SEP 29–DEC 31 VIR AUG 1 –DEC 31 LEO MAY 25–DEC 31 GEM

1980   JAN 1 –OCT 26 VIR 2003   JAN 1 –AUG 26 LEO 2025 JAN 1 –JUN 8  GEM
OCT 27–DEC 31 LIB AUG 27–DEC 31 VIR JUN 9 –DEC 31 CAN

1981   JAN 1 –NOV 25 LIB 2004 JAN 1 –SEP 23 VIR 2026 JAN 1 –JUN 29 CAN
NOV 26–DEC 31 SCO SEP 24–DEC 31 LIB JUN 30–DEC 31 LEO

Ju p i t e r  Ta b l e s • 5 0 3



2027 JAN 1 –JUL 24 LEO 2047 JAN 1 –APR 12 ARI
JUL 25–DEC 31 VIR APR 13–DEC 31 TAU 2065 JAN 1 –DEC 24 SCO

DEC 25–DEC 31 SAG
2028 JAN 1 –AUG 23 VIR 2048 JAN 1 –APR 21 TAU

AUG 24–DEC 31 LIB APR 22–SEP 22 GEM 2066 SAG
SEP 23–NOV 11 CAN

2029 JAN 1 –SEP 23 LIB NOV 12–DEC 31 GEM 2067 JAN 1 –JAN 18 SAG
SEP 24–DEC 31 SCO JAN 19–DEC 31 CAP

2049 JAN 1 –MAY 4  GEM
2030 JAN 1 –OCT 21 SCO MAY 5 –SEP 26 CAN 2068 JAN 1 –FEB 6  CAP

OCT 22–DEC 31 SAG SEP 27–DEC 31 LEO FEB 7 –DEC 31 AQU

2031 JAN 1 –NOV 14 SAG 2050 JAN 1 –JAN 13 LEO 2069 JAN 1 –FEB 19 AQU
NOV 15–DEC 31 CAP JAN 14–MAY 21 CAN FEB 20–DEC 31 PIS

MAY 22–OCT 17 LEO
2032 JAN 1 –APR 10 CAP OCT 18–DEC 31 VIR 2070 JAN 1 –MAR 1  PIS

APR 11–JUN 25 AQU MAR 2 –DEC 31 ARI
JUN 26–NOV 28 CAP 2051 JAN 1 –FEB 25 VIR
NOV 29–DEC 31 AQU FEB 26–JUN 14 LEO 2071 JAN 1 –MAR 7  ARI

JUN 15–NOV 14 VIR MAR 8 –JUL 21 TAU
2033 JAN 1 –APR 13 AQU NOV 15–DEC 31 LIB JUL 22–NOV 29 GEM

APR 14–SEP 11 PIS NOV 30–DEC 31 TAU
SEP 12–NOV 30 AQU 2052 JAN 1 –MAR 29 LIB
DEC 1 –DEC 31 PIS MAR 30–JUL 12 VIR 2072 JAN 1 –MAR 9  TAU

JUL 13–DEC 14 LIB MAR 10–JUL 28 GEM
2034 JAN 1 –APR 20 PIS DEC 15–DEC 31 SCO JUL 29–DEC 31 CAN

APR 21–DEC 31 ARI
2053 JAN 1 –APR 28 SCO 2073 JAN 1 –AUG 16 CAN

2035 JAN 1 –APR 28 ARI APR 29–AUG 13 LIB AUG 17–DEC 31 LEO
APR 29–DEC 31 TAU AUG 14–DEC 31 SCO

2074 JAN 1 –SEP 10 LEO
2036 JAN 1 –MAY 8  TAU 2054 JAN 1 –JAN 12 SCO SEP 11–DEC 31 VIR

MAY 9 –DEC 31 GEM JAN 13–JUN 3  SAG
JUN 4 –SEP 9  SCO 2075 JAN 1 –OCT 9  VIR

2037 JAN 1 –MAY 22 GEM SEP 10–DEC 31 SAG OCT 10–DEC 31 LIB
MAY 23–DEC 31 CAN

2055 JAN 1 –FEB 5  SAG 2076 JAN 1 –NOV 8  LIB
2038 JAN 1 –JUN 11 CAN FEB 6 –JUL 21 CAP NOV 9 –DEC 31 SCO

JUN 12–NOV 15 LEO JUL 22–SEP 26 SAG
NOV 16–DEC 31 VIR SEP 27–DEC 31 CAP 2077 JAN 1 –DEC 7  SCO

DEC 8 –DEC 31 SAG
2039 JAN 1 –JAN 15 VIR 2056 JAN 1 –FEB 23 CAP

JAN 16–JUL 6  LEO FEB 24–DEC 31 AQU 2078 SAG
JUL 7 –DEC 11 VIR
DEC 12–DEC 31 LIB 2057 JAN 1 –MAR 7  AQU 2079 JAN 1 –JAN 1  SAG

MAR 8 –DEC 31 PIS JAN 2 –DEC 31 CAP
2040 JAN 1 –FEB 19 LIB

FEB 20–AUG 4  VIR 2058 JAN 1 –MAR 18 PIS 2080 JAN 1 –JAN 20 CAP
AUG 5 –DEC 31 LIB MAR 19–DEC 31 ARI JAN 21–DEC 31 AQU

2041 JAN 1 –JAN 10 LIB 2059 JAN 1 –MAR 26 ARI 2081 JAN 1 –FEB 2  AQU
JAN 11–MAR 19 SCO MAR 27–AUG 26 TAU FEB 3 –DEC 31 PIS
MAR 20–SEP 4  LIB AUG 27–OCT 10 GEM
SEP 5 –DEC 31 SCO OCT 11–DEC 31 TAU 2082 JAN 1 –FEB 11 PIS

FEB 12–JUN 26 ARI
2042 JAN 1 –FEB 7  SCO 2060 JAN 1 –APR 2  TAU JUN 27–OCT 20 TAU

FEB 8 –APR 23 SAG APR 3 –AUG 19 GEM OCT 21–DEC 31 ARI
APR 24–OCT 3  SCO AUG 20–DEC 27 CAN
OCT 4 –DEC 31 SAG DEC 28–DEC 31 GEM 2083 JAN 1 –FEB 13 ARI

2043 JAN 1 –FEB 28 SAG FEB 14–JUN 29 TAU
MAR 1 –JUN 8  CAP 2061 JAN 1 –APR 11 GEM JUN 30–DEC 31 GEM
JUN 9 –OCT 25 SAG APR 12–SEP 3  CAN
OCT 26–DEC 31 CAP SEP 4 –DEC 31 LEO 2084 JAN 1 –JUL 11 GEM

JUL 12–DEC 31 CAN
2044 JAN 1 –MAR 13 CAP 2062 JAN 1 –FEB 25 LEO

MAR 14–AUG 8  AQU FEB 26–APR 19 CAN 2085 JAN 1 –JUL 30 CAN
AUG 9 –NOV 3  CAP APR 20–SEP 27 LEO JUL 31–DEC 31 LEO
NOV 4 –DEC 31 AQU SEP 28–DEC 31 VIR

2086 JAN 1 –AUG 25 LEO
2045 JAN 1 –MAR 25 AQU 2063 JAN 1 –OCT 26 VIR AUG 26–DEC 31 VIR

MAR 26–DEC 31 PIS OCT 27–DEC 31 LIB
2087 JAN 1 –SEP 23 VIR

2046 JAN 1 –APR 3  PIS 2064 JAN 1 –NOV 25 LIB SEP 24–DEC 31 LIB
APR 4 –DEC 31 ARI NOV 26–DEC 31 SCO

5 0 4 • Ju p i t e r  Ta b l e s



2088 JAN 1 –OCT 23 LIB 2093 JAN 1 –JAN 16 AQU 2098 JAN 1 –AUG 9  LEO
OCT 24–DEC 31 SCO JAN 17–JUN 5  PIS AUG 10–DEC 31 VIR

JUN 6 –SEP 5  ARI
2089 JAN 1 –NOV 21 SCO SEP 6 –DEC 31 ARI 2099 JAN 1 –SEP 8  VIR

NOV 22–DEC 31 SAG SEP 9 –DEC 31 LIB
2094 JAN 1 –JAN 21 ARI

2090 JAN 1 –DEC 16 SAG JAN 22–JUN 3  ARI 2100 JAN 1 –OCT 9  LIB
DEC 17–DEC 31 CAP JUN 4 –DEC 31 TAU OCT 10–DEC 31 SCO

2091 CAP 2095 JAN 1 –JUN 11 TAU 2101 SCO
JUN 12–DEC 31 GEM

2092 JAN 1 –JAN 4  CAP
JAN 5 –DEC 31 AQU 2096 JAN 1 –JUN 24 GEM

JUN 25–DEC 31 CAN

2097 JAN 1 –JUL 14 CAN
JUL 15–DEC 31 LEO

Ju p i t e r  Ta b l e s • 5 0 5




Where Is Your Saturn?

The follow ing Saturn Tables will tell you If there is only one sign listed for a specific year, it means Sat-
what sign Saturn was in on the day of your birth. To use urn was in that sign throughout the entire year. In some

these tables, simply locate the year of your birth.* You will see cases, Saturn remains in one sign for two years. For example,
at a glance exactly what signs Saturn was in during that year. Saturn was in Sagittarius throughout 1986 and 1987.

*The computer chart you get using the enclosed CD-ROM will not only tell you the sign your Saturn is in, but the exact degree of this sign.

5 0 6 • Sat u r n  Ta b l e s



1900   JAN 1 –JAN 20 SAG 1922 LIB 1947          LEO

JAN 21–JUL 17 CAP 1923 JAN 1 –DEC 18 LIB 1948   JAN 1 –SEP 17 LEO
JUL 18–OCT 16 SAG DEC 19–DEC 31 SCO SEP 18–DEC 31 VIR
OCT 17–DEC 31 CAP

1924 JAN 1 –APR 5  SCO 1949   JAN 1 –APR 1  VIR
1901–1902 CAP APR 6 –SEP 12 LIB APR 2 –MAY 28 LEO

SEP 13–DEC 31 SCO MAY 29–DEC 31 VIR
1903 JAN 1 –JAN 18 CAP

JAN 19–DEC 31 AQU 1925 SCO 1950   JAN 1 –NOV 19 VIR
NOV 20–DEC 31 LIB

1904 AQU 1926 JAN 1 –DEC 1  SCO
DEC 2 –DEC 31 SAG 1951   JAN 1 –MAR 6  LIB

1905 JAN 1 –APR 12 AQU MAR 7 –AUG 12 VIR
APR 13–AUG 15 PIS 1927–1928     SAG AUG 13–DEC 31 LIB
AUG 16–DEC 31 AQU

1929 JAN 1 –MAR 14 SAG 1952          LIB
1906 JAN 1 –JAN 7  AQU MAR 15–MAY 3  CAP

JAN 8 –DEC 31 PIS MAY 4 –NOV 28 SAG 1953   JAN 1 –OCT 21 LIB
NOV 29–DEC 31 CAP OCT 22–DEC 31 SCO

1907 PIS
1930–1931     CAP 1954–1955     SCO

1908 JAN 1 –MAR 18 PIS
MAR 19–DEC 31 ARI 1932 JAN 1 –FEB 22 CAP 1956   JAN 1 –JAN 11 SCO

FEB 23–AUG 12 AQU JAN 12–MAY 12 SAG
1909 ARI AUG 13–NOV 18 CAP MAY 13–OCT 9  SCO

NOV 19–DEC 31 AQU OCT 10–DEC 31 SAG
1910 JAN 1 –MAY 16 ARI

MAY 17–DEC 13 TAU 1933–1934     AQU 1957–1958     SAG
DEC 14–DEC 31 ARI

1935   JAN 1 –FEB 13 AQU 1959   JAN 1 –JAN 4  SAG
1911 JAN 1 –JAN 19 ARI FEB 14–DEC 31 PIS JAN 5 –DEC 31 CAP

JAN 20–DEC 31 TAU
1936          PIS 1960–1961     CAP

1912 JAN 1 –JUL 6  TAU
JUL 7 –NOV 29 GEM 1937   JAN 1 –APR 24 PIS 1962   JAN 1 –JAN 2  CAP
NOV 30–DEC 31 TAU APR 25–OCT 16 ARI JAN 3 –DEC 31 AQU

OCT 17–DEC 31 ARI
1913 JAN 1 –MAR 25 TAU 1963          AQU

MAR 26–DEC 31 GEM 1938   JAN 1 –JAN 13 ARI
JAN 14–DEC 31 ARI 1964   JAN 1 –MAR 22 AQU

1914 JAN 1 –AUG 23 GEM MAR 23–SEP 15 PIS
AUG 24–DEC 6  CAN 1939   JAN 1 –JUL 5  ARI SEP 16–DEC 15 AQU
DEC 7 –DEC 31 GEM JUL 6 –SEP 21 TAU DEC 16–DEC 31 PIS

SEP 22–DEC 31 ARI
1915 JAN 1 –MAY 10 GEM 1965–1966     PIS

MAY 11–DEC 31 CAN 1940   JAN 1 –MAR 19 ARI
MAR 20–DEC 31 TAU 1967   JAN 1 –MAR 2  PIS

1916 JAN 1 –OCT 16 CAN MAR 3 –DEC 31 ARI
OCT 17–DEC 6  LEO 1941          TAU
DEC 7 –DEC 31 CAN 1968          ARI

1942   JAN 1 –MAY 7  TAU
1917 JAN 1 –JUN 23 CAN MAY 8 –DEC 31 GEM 1969   JAN 1 –APR 28 ARI

JUN 24–DEC 31 LEO APR 29–DEC 31 TAU
1943          GEM

1918 LEO 1970          TAU
1944   JAN 1 –JUN 19 GEM

1919 JAN 1 –AUG 11 LEO JUN 20–DEC 31 CAN 1971   JAN 1 –JUN 17 TAU
AUG 12–DEC 31 VIR JUN 18–DEC 31 GEM

1945          CAN
1920 VIR 1972   JAN 1 –JAN 8  GEM

1946   JAN 1 –AUG 1  CAN JAN 9 –FEB 20 TAU
1921 JAN 1 –OCT 6  VIR AUG 2 –DEC 31 LEO FEB 21–DEC 31 GEM

OCT 7 –DEC 31 LIB

Sat u r n  Ta b l e s • 5 0 7



1973   JAN 1 –JUL 31 GEM 1995          PIS 2018–2019     CAP
AUG 1 –DEC 31 CAN

1996   JAN 1 –APR 6  PIS 2020   JAN 1 –MAR 20 CAP
1974   JAN 1 –JAN 6  CAN APR 7 –DEC 31 ARI MAR 21–JUN 30 AQU

JAN 7 –APR 17 GEM JUL 1 –DEC 16 CAP
APR 18–DEC 31 CAN 1997          ARI DEC 17–DEC 31 AQU

1975   JAN 1 –SEP 15 CAN 1998   JAN 1 –JUN 8  ARI 2021–2022     AQU
SEP 16–DEC 31 LEO JUN 9 –OCT 24 TAU

OCT 25–DEC 31 ARI 2023   JAN 1 –MAR 6  AQU
1976   JAN 1 –JAN 13 LEO MAR 7 –DEC 31 PIS

JAN 14–JUN 4  CAN 1999   JAN 1 –FEB 27 ARI
JUN 5 –DEC 31 LEO FEB 28–DEC 31 TAU 2024          PIS

1977   JAN 1 –NOV 15 LEO 2000   JAN 1 –AUG 8  TAU 2025   JAN 1 –MAY 23 PIS
NOV 16–DEC 31 VIR AUG 9 –OCT 14 GEM MAY 24–AUG 31 ARI

OCT 15–DEC 31 TAU SEP 1 –DEC 31 ARI
1978   JAN 1 –JAN 3  VIR

JAN 4 –JUL 25 LEO 2001   JAN 1 –APR 19 TAU 2026   JAN 1 –FEB 12 ARI
JUL 26–DEC 31 VIR APR 20–DEC 31 GEM FEB 13–DEC 31 ARI

1979          VIR 2002          GEM 2027          ARI

1980   JAN 1 –SEP 20 VIR 2003   JAN 1 –JUN 2  GEM 2028   JAN 1 –APR 11 ARI
SEP 21–DEC 31 LIB JUN 3 –DEC 31 CAN APR 12–DEC 31 TAU

1981          LIB 2004          CAN 2029          TAU

1982   JAN 1 –NOV 28 LIB 2005   JAN 1 –JUL 15 CAN 2030   JAN 1 –MAY 30 TAU
NOV 29–DEC 31 SCO JUL 16–DEC 31 LEO MAY 31–DEC 31 GEM

1983   JAN 1 –MAY 5  SCO 2006          LEO 2031          GEM
MAY 6 –AUG 23 LIB
AUG 24–DEC 31 SCO 2007   JAN 1 –SEP 1  LEO 2032   JAN 1 –JUL 12 GEM

SEP 2 –DEC 31 VIR JUL 13–DEC 31 CAN
1984          SCO

2008          VIR 2033          CAN
1985   JAN 1 –NOV 15 SCO

NOV 16–DEC 31 SAG 2009   JAN 1 –OCT 28 VIR 2034   JAN 1 –AUG 25 CAN
OCT 29–DEC 31 LIB AUG 26–DEC 31 LEO

1986–1987     SAG
2010   JAN 1 –APR 6  LIB 2035   JAN 1 –FEB 14 LEO

1988   JAN 1 –FEB 12 SAG APR 7 –JUL 20 VIR FEB 15–MAY 10 CAN
FEB 13–JUN 9  CAP JUL 21–DEC 31 LIB MAY 11–DEC 31 LEO
JUN 10–NOV 11 SAG
NOV 12–DEC 31 CAP 2011          LIB 2036   JAN 1 –OCT 15 LEO

OCT 16–DEC 31 VIR
1989–1990     CAP 2012   JAN 1 –OCT 4  LIB

OCT 5 –DEC 31 SCO 2037   JAN 1 –FEB 10 VIR
1991   JAN 1 –FEB 5  CAP FEB 11–JUL 5  LEO

FEB 6 –DEC 31 AQU 2013          SCO JUL 6 –DEC 31 VIR

1992          AQU 2014   JAN 1 –DEC 22 SCO 2038          VIR
DEC 23–DEC 31 SAG

1993   JAN 1 –MAY 19 AQU 2039   JAN 1 –SEP 4  VIR
MAY 20–JUN 29 PIS 2015   JAN 1 –JUN 13 SAG SEP 5 –DEC 31 LIB
JUN 30–DEC 31 AQU JUN 14–SEP 16 SCO

SEP 17–DEC 31 SAG 2040          LIB
1994   JAN 1 –JAN 27 AQU

JAN 28–DEC 31 PIS 2016          SAG 2041   JAN 1 –NOV 10 LIB
NOV 11–DEC 31 SCO

2017   JAN 1 –DEC 18 SAG
DEC 19–DEC 31 CAP

5 0 8 • Sat u r n  Ta b l e s



2042   JAN 1 –JUN 20 SCO 2063          CAN 2088          TAU
JUN 21–JUL 13 LIB
JUL 14–DEC 31 SCO 2064   JAN 1 –JUN 27 CAN 2089   JAN 1 –MAY 14 TAU

JUN 28–DEC 31 LEO MAY 15–DEC 31 GEM
2043          SCO

2065          LEO 2090          GEM
2044   JAN 1 –FEB 20 SCO

FEB 21–MAR 24 SAG 2066   JAN 1 –AUG 15 LEO 2091   JAN 1 –JUN 26 GEM
MAR 25–OCT 30 SCO AUG 16–DEC 31 VIR JUN 27–DEC 31 CAN
OCT 31–DEC 31 SAG

2067          VIR 2092          CAN
2045–2046     SAG

2068   JAN 1 –OCT 9  VIR 2093   JAN 1 –AUG 7  CAN
2047   JAN 1 –JAN 23 SAG OCT 10–DEC 31 LIB AUG 8 –DEC 31 LEO

JAN 24–JUL 9  CAP
JUL 10–OCT 21 SAG 2069          LIB 2094          LEO
OCT 22–DEC 31 CAP

2070   JAN 1 –DEC 24 LIB 2095   JAN 1 –SEP 25 LEO
2048–2049     CAP DEC 25–DEC 31 SCO SEP 26–DEC 31 VIR

2050   JAN 1 –JAN 20 CAP 2071   JAN 1 –MAR 26 SCO 2096   JAN 1 –MAR 13 VIR
JAN 21–DEC 31 AQU MAR 27–SEP 17 LIB MAR 14–JUN 11 LEO

SEP 18–DEC 31 SCO JUN 12–DEC 31 VIR
2051          AQU

2072          SCO 2097   JAN 1 –NOV 27 VIR
2052   JAN 1 –APR 15 AQU NOV 28–DEC 31 LIB

APR 16–AUG 7  PIS 2073   JAN 1 –DEC 4  SCO
AUG 8 –DEC 31 AQU DEC 5 –DEC 31 SAG 2098   JAN 1 –FEB 20 LIB

FEB 21–AUG 17 VIR
2053   JAN 1 –JAN 9  AQU 2074–2075     SAG AUG 18–DEC 31 LIB

JAN 10–DEC 31 PIS
2076   JAN 1 –DEC 2  SAG 2099          LIB

2054          PIS DEC 3 –DEC 31 CAP
2100   JAN 1 –OCT 25 LIB

2055   JAN 1 –MAR 21 PIS 2077–2078     CAP OCT 26–DEC 31 SCO
MAR 22–DEC 31 ARI

2079   JAN 1 –FEB 27 CAP 2101          SCO
2056          ARI FEB 28–AUG 1  AQU

AUG 2 –NOV 26 CAP
2057   JAN 1 –MAY 19 ARI NOV 27–DEC 31 AQU

MAY 20–NOV 28 TAU
NOV 29–DEC 31 ARI 2080–2081     AQU

2058   JAN 1 –JAN 30 ARI 2082   JAN 1 –FEB 17 AQU
JAN 31–DEC 31 TAU FEB 18–DEC 31 PIS

2059   JAN 1 –JUL 11 TAU 2083          PIS
JUL 12–NOV 20 GEM
NOV 21–DEC 31 TAU 2084   JAN 1 –APR 30 PIS

MAY 1 –OCT 1  ARI
2060   JAN 1 –MAR 30 TAU OCT 2 –DEC 31 PIS

MAR 31–DEC 31 GEM
2085   JAN 1 –JAN 22 PIS

2061   JAN 1 –AUG 31 GEM JAN 23–DEC 31 ARI
SEP 1 –NOV 23 CAN
NOV 24–DEC 31 GEM 2086   JAN 1 –JUL 26 ARI

JUL 27–AUG 24 TAU
2062   JAN 1 –MAY 15 GEM AUG 25–DEC 31 ARI

MAY 16–DEC 31 CAN
2087   JAN 1 –MAR 27 ARI

MAR 28–DEC 31 TAU

Sat u r n  Ta b l e s • 5 0 9




Where Is Your Uranus?

The follow ing Uranus Table will tell you what cause Uranus moves so slowly through the zodiac, the planet
sign Uranus was in on the day of your birth.* To use this may spend a number of years in one sign. For example,

table simply locate the year of your birth. You will see at a Uranus was in Capricorn all during the years 1905 through
glance exactly what signs Uranus was in during that year. Be- 1911.

*The computer chart you get using the enclosed CD-ROM will not only tell you the sign your Uranus is in, but the exact degree of this sign.

5 1 0 • U r a n u s  Ta b l e s



1900–1903   SAG 1968   JAN 1 –SEP 27 VIR 2033   JAN 1 –MAY 21 GEM
SEP 28–DEC 31 LIB MAY 22–DEC 31 CAN

1904   JAN 1 –DEC 19 SAG
DEC 20–DEC 31 CAP 1969   JAN 1 –MAY 19 LIB 2034–2038   CAN

MAY 20–JUN 23 VIR
1905–1911   CAP JUN 24–DEC 31 LIB 2039   JAN 1 –AUG 5  CAN

AUG 6 –DEC 31 LEO
1912   JAN 1 –JAN 29 CAP 1970–1973   LIB

JAN 30–SEP 3  AQU 2040   JAN 1 –FEB 24 LEO
SEP 4 –NOV 11 CAP 1974   JAN 1 –NOV 20 LIB FEB 25–MAY 14 CAN
NOV 12–DEC 31 AQU NOV 21–DEC 31 SCO MAY 15–DEC 31 LEO

1913–1918   AQU 1975   JAN 1 –APR 30 SCO 2041–2044   LEO
MAY 1 –SEP 7  LIB

1919   JAN 1 –MAR 30 AQU SEP 8 –DEC 31 SCO 2045   JAN 1 –OCT 5  LEO
MAR 31–AUG 15 PIS OCT 6 –DEC 31 VIR
AUG 16–DEC 31 AQU 1976–1980   SCO

2046   JAN 1 –FEB 7  VIR
1920   JAN 1 –JAN 21 AQU 1981   JAN 1 –FEB 16 SCO FEB 8 –JUL 21 LEO

JAN 22–DEC 31 PIS FEB 17–MAR 19 SAG JUL 22–DEC 31 VIR
MAR 20–NOV 15 SCO

1921–1926   PIS NOV 16–DEC 31 SAG 2047–2050   VIR

1927   JAN 1 –MAR 30 PIS 1982–1987   SAG 2051   JAN 1 –DEC 7  VIR
MAR 31–NOV 3  ARI DEC 8 –DEC 31 LIB
NOV 4 –DEC 31 PIS 1988   JAN 1 –FEB 13 SAG

FEB 14–MAY 25 CAP 2052   JAN 1 –JAN 30 LIB
1928   JAN 1 –JAN 12 PIS MAY 26–DEC 1  SAG JAN 31–SEP 10 VIR

JAN 13–DEC 31 ARI DEC 2 –DEC 31 CAP SEP 11–DEC 31 LIB

1929–1933   ARI 1989–1994   CAP 2053–2057   LIB

1934   JAN 1 –JUN 5  ARI 1995   JAN 1 –MAR 31 CAP 2058   JAN 1 –NOV 2  LIB
JUN 6 –OCT 8  TAU APR 1 –JUN 7  AQU NOV 3 –DEC 31 SCO
OCT 9 –DEC 31 ARI JUN 8 –DEC 31 CAP

2059   JAN 1 –MAY 31 SCO
1935   JAN 1 –MAR 26 ARI 1996   JAN 1 –JAN 11 CAP JUN 1 –AUG 10 LIB

MAR 27–DEC 31 TAU JAN 12–DEC 31 AQU AUG 11–DEC 31 SCO

1936–1940   TAU 1997–2002   AQU 2060–2064   SCO

1941   JAN 1 –AUG 6  TAU 2003   JAN 1 –MAR 9  AQU 2065   JAN 1 –JAN 9  SCO
AUG 7 –OCT 3  GEM MAR 10–SEP 13 PIS JAN 10–APR 30 SAG
OCT 4 –DEC 31 TAU SEP 14–DEC 29 AQU MAY 1 –OCT 27 SCO

DEC 30–DEC 31 PIS OCT 28–DEC 31 SAG
1942   JAN 1 –MAY 13 TAU

MAY 14–DEC 31 GEM 2004–2009   PIS 2066–2071   SAG

1943–1947   GEM 2010   JAN 1 –MAY 26 PIS 2072   JAN 1 –JAN 21 SAG
MAY 27–AUG 12 ARI JAN 22–JUN 24 CAP

1948   JAN 1 –AUG 29 GEM AUG 13–DEC 31 ARI JUN 25–NOV 10 SAG
AUG 30–NOV 11 CAN NOV 11–DEC 31 CAP
NOV 12–DEC 31 GEM 2011   JAN 1 –MAR 10 ARI

MAR 11–DEC 31 ARI 2073–2078   CAP
1949   JAN 1 –JUN 8  GEM

JUN 9 –DEC 31 CAN 2012–2017   ARI 2079   JAN 1 –MAR 1  CAP
MAR 2 –JUL 12 AQU

1950–1954   CAN 2018   JAN 1 –MAY 14 ARI JUL 13–DEC 22 CAP
MAY 15–NOV 5  TAU DEC 23–DEC 31 AQU

1955   JAN 1 –AUG 23 CAN NOV 6 –DEC 31 ARI
AUG 24–DEC 31 LEO 2080–2086   AQU

2019   JAN 1 –MAR 5  ARI
1956   JAN 1 –JAN 26 LEO MAR 6 –DEC 31 TAU 2087   JAN 1 –FEB 17 AQU

JAN 27–JUN 8  CAN FEB 18–DEC 31 PIS
JUN 9 –DEC 31 LEO 2020–2024   TAU

2088–2093   PIS
1957–1960   LEO 2025   JAN 1 –JUL 6  TAU

JUL 7 –NOV 6  GEM 2094   JAN 1 –APR 27 PIS
1961   JAN 1 –OCT 31 LEO NOV 7 –DEC 31 TAU APR 28–SEP 15 ARI

NOV 1 –DEC 31 VIR SEP 16–DEC 31 ARI
2026   JAN 1 –APR 24 TAU

1962   JAN 1 –JAN 9  VIR APR 25–DEC 31 GEM 2095   JAN 1 –FEB 17 ARI
JAN 10–AUG 8  LEO FEB 18–DEC 31 ARI
AUG 9 –DEC 31 VIR 2027–2031   GEM

2096–2101   ARI
1963–1967   VIR 2032   JAN 1 –AUG 2  GEM

AUG 3 –DEC 11 CAN
DEC 12–DEC 31 GEM

U r a n u s  Ta b l e s • 5 1 1




Where Is Your Neptune?

The follow ing Neptune Table will tell you This is because the planet moves so slowly through the zo-
what sign Neptune was in on the day of your birth.* You diac. Neptune also has long periods of retrograde motion.

will notice that Neptune often spends many years in one sign.

1900        GEM 1957   JAN 1 –JUN 14 SCO 2038   JAN 1 –MAY 20 ARI
JUN 15–AUG 5  LIB MAY 21–OCT 20 TAU

1901   JAN 1 –JUL 18 GEM AUG 6 –DEC 31 SCO OCT 21–DEC 31 ARI
JUL 19–DEC 24 CAN
DEC 25–DEC 31 GEM 1958–1969   SCO 2039   JAN 1 –MAR 22 ARI

MAR 23–DEC 31 TAU
1902   JAN 1 –MAY 20 GEM 1970   JAN 1 –JAN 3  SCO

MAY 21–DEC 31 CAN JAN 4 –MAY 1  SAG 2040–2050   TAU
MAY 2 –NOV 5  SCO

1903–1913   CAN NOV 6 –DEC 31 SAG 2051   JAN 1 –JUL 15 TAU
JUL 16–OCT 21 GEM

1914   JAN 1 –SEP 22 CAN 1971–1983   SAG OCT 22–DEC 31 TAU
SEP 23–DEC 13 LEO
DEC 14–DEC 31 CAN 1984   JAN 1 –JAN 17 SAG 2052   JAN 1 –MAY 11 TAU

JAN 18–JUN 21 CAP MAY 12–DEC 31 GEM
1915   JAN 1 –JUL 18 CAN JUN 22–NOV 20 SAG

JUL 19–DEC 31 LEO NOV 21–DEC 31 CAP 2053–2064   GEM

1916   JAN 1 –MAR 18 LEO 1985–1997   CAP 2065   JAN 1 –JUL 2  GEM
MAR 19–MAY 1  CAN JUL 3 –DEC 31 CAN
MAY 2 –DEC 31 LEO 1998   JAN 1 –JAN 27 CAP

JAN 28–AUG 21 AQU 2066   JAN 1 –JAN 13 CAN
1917–1927   LEO AUG 22–NOV 26 CAP JAN 14–APR 30 GEM

NOV 27–DEC 31 AQU MAY 1 –DEC 31 CAN
1928   JAN 1 –SEP 20 LEO

SEP 21–DEC 31 VIR 1999–2010   AQU 2067–2077   CAN

1929   JAN 1 –FEB 18 VIR 2011   JAN 1 –APR 3  AQU 2078   JAN 1 –AUG 31 CAN
FEB 19–JUL 23 LEO APR 4 –AUG 3  PIS SEP 1 –DEC 31 LEO
JUL 24–DEC 31 VIR AUG 4 –DEC 31 AQU

2079   JAN 1 –JAN 5  LEO
1930–1941   VIR 2012   JAN 1 –FEB 2  AQU JAN 6 –JUL 2  CAN

FEB 3 –DEC 31 PIS JUL 3 –DEC 31 LEO
1942   JAN 1 –OCT 2  VIR

OCT 3 –DEC 31 LIB 2013–2024   PIS 2080–2091   LEO

1943   JAN 1 –APR 16 LIB 2025   JAN 1 –MAR 29 PIS 2092   JAN 1 –SEP 3  LEO
APR 17–AUG 1  VIR MAR 30–OCT 21 ARI SEP 4 –DEC 31 VIR
AUG 2 –DEC 31 LIB OCT 22–DEC 31 ARI

2093   JAN 1 –MAR 10 VIR
1944–1954   LIB 2026   JAN 1 –JAN 25 ARI MAR 11–JUL 4  LEO

JAN 26–DEC 31 ARI 2093   JUL 5 –DEC 31 VIR
1955   JAN 1 –DEC 23 LIB

DEC 24–DEC 31 SCO 2027–2037   ARI 2094–2101   VIR

1956   JAN 1 –MAR 10 SCO
MAR 11–OCT 18 LIB
OCT 19–DEC 31 SCO

*The computer chart you get using the enclosed CD-ROM will not only tell you the sign your Neptune is in, but the exact degree of this sign.

5 1 2 • N e p t u n e  Ta b l e



	
Where Is Your Pluto?

The follow ing Pluto Table will tell you what
sign Pluto was in on the day of your birth.* You will

notice that Pluto spends a great many years in each sign.

1900–1911   GEM 1971   JAN 1 –OCT 4  VIR 2025–2042   AQU
OCT 5 –DEC 31 LIB

1912   JAN 1 –SEP 9  GEM 2043   JAN 1 –MAR 7  AQU
SEP 10–OCT 19 CAN 1972   JAN 1 –APR 16 LIB MAR 8 –AUG 30 PIS
OCT 20–DEC 31 GEM APR 17–JUL 29 VIR AUG 31–DEC 31 AQU

JUL 30–DEC 31 LIB
1913   JAN 1 –JUL 8  GEM 2044   JAN 1 –JAN 18 AQU

JUL 9 –DEC 26 CAN 1973–1982   LIB JAN 19–DEC 31 PIS
DEC 27–DEC 31 GEM

1983   JAN 1 –NOV 4  LIB 2045–2065   PIS
1914   JAN 1 –MAY 25 GEM NOV 5 –DEC 31 SCO

MAY 26–DEC 31 CAN 2066   JAN 1 –JUN 17 PIS
1984   JAN 1 –MAY 17 SCO JUN 18–JUL 9  ARI

1915–1936   CAN MAY 18–AUG 27 LIB JUL 10–DEC 31 PIS
AUG 28–DEC 31 SCO

1937   JAN 1 –OCT 6  CAN 2067   JAN 1 –APR 7  PIS
OCT 7 –NOV 24 LEO 1985–1994   SCO APR 8 –SEP 26 ARI
NOV 25–DEC 31 CAN SEP 27–DEC 31 PIS

1995   JAN 1 –JAN 16 SCO
1938   JAN 1 –AUG 2  CAN JAN 17–APR 19 SAG 2068   JAN 1 –FEB 22 PIS

AUG 3 –DEC 31 LEO APR 20–NOV 9  SCO FEB 23–DEC 31 ARI
NOV 10–DEC 31 SAG

1939   JAN 1 –FEB 6  LEO 2069–2094   ARI
FEB 7 –JUN 12 CAN 1996–2007   SAG
JUN 13–DEC 31 LEO 2095   JAN 1 –JUN 8  ARI

2008   JAN 1 –JAN 24 SAG JUN 9 –SEP 19 TAU
1940–1955   LEO JAN 25–JUN 12 CAP SEP 20–DEC 31 ARI

JUN 13–NOV 25 SAG
1956   JAN 1 –OCT 19 LEO NOV 26–DEC 31 CAP 2096   JAN 1 –APR 22 ARI

OCT 20–DEC 31 VIR APR 23–NOV 13 TAU
2009–2022   CAP NOV 14–DEC 31 ARI

1957   JAN 1 –JAN 13 VIR
JAN 14–AUG 17 LEO 2023   JAN 1 –MAR 22 CAP 2097   JAN 1 –MAR 9  ARI
AUG 18–DEC 31 VIR MAR 23–JUN 9  AQU MAR 10–DEC 31 TAU

JUN 10–DEC 31 CAP
1958   JAN 1 –APR 10 VIR 2098–2101 TAU

APR 11–JUN 9  LEO 2024   JAN 1 –JAN 19 CAP
JUN 10–DEC 31 VIR JAN 20–AUG 31 AQU

SEP 1 –NOV 18 CAP
1959–1970   VIR NOV 19–DEC 31 AQU

*The computer chart you get using the enclosed CD-ROM will not only tell you the sign your Pluto is in, but the exact degree of this sign.

P lu to  Ta b l e • 5 1 3






8
B I B L I O G R A P H Y

Abadie, M. J., and Bader, Claudia. Love Planets. New York: Brenner, Charles. An Elementary Textbook of Psychoanalysis.
Fireside, 1990. New York: International Universities Press, 1955.

Adams, Evangeline. Astrology: Your Place Among the Stars. Bulfinch, Thomas. Bulfinch’s Mythology. New York: Grosset
New York: Dodd, Mead & Co., 1930. and Dunlap. First edition 1913.

———. The Bowl of Heaven. New York: Dodd, Mead & Co., Burt, Kathleen. Archetypes of the Zodiac. St. Paul, MN:
1930. Llewellyn Publications, 1996.

Alexander, Skye. Planets in Signs. Atglen, PA: Whitford Press, Camilleri, Stephanie. The House Book. St. Paul, MN: Llewellyn
1988. Publications, 1999.

Arnott, Nancy. The Hidden Meaning of Birthdays. Kansas Cavendish, Richard, ed. Encyclopedia of the Unexplained. New
City: Ariel Books, 1996. York: McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1974.

Astarte. Astrology Made Easy. North Hollywood, CA: Wilshire Columbia Encyclopedia. New York: Columbia University Press.
Book Company, 1969. Cooper, Michael, and Weaver, Andrew. An Astrological Index

Avery, Jeanne. The Rising Sign. Garden City, NY: Doubleday to the World’s Famous People. Garden City, NY: Double-
and Company, 1982. day and Company, 1975.

Bailey, Alice. Esoteric Astrology: A Treatise on the Seven Rays. Cornell, H. L. Encyclopedia of Medical Astrology. New York:
New York: Lucis Publishing Company, 1951. Samuel Weiser, 1972.

Banzhaf, Hajo, and Haebler, Anna. Key Words for Astrology. Crawford, Saffi, and Sullivan, Geraldine. The Power of Birth-
York Beach, ME: Samuel Weiser, 1996. days, Stars, & Numbers. New York: Ballantine Books,

Benjamine, Elbert. Beginner’s Horoscope: Maker and Reader. 1998.
Los Angeles: Church of Light, 1972. Crowmarsh, Preston. First Steps to Astrology. New York:

Bennett, Judith. Sex Signs. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1980. Samuel Weiser, 1971.
Brau, Jean-Louis, Weaver, Helen, and Edmands, Allan. Crummere, Maria Elise. Sun-Sign Revelations. New York:

Larousse Encyclopedia of Astrology. New York: McGraw- Viking Press, 1974.
Hill Book Company, 1980.

5 1 5



Cumont, Franz. Astrology and Religion Among the Greeks and Grant, Michael, and Hazel, John. Gods and Mortals in Classi-
Romans. New York: Dover, 1960. cal Mythology. Springfield, MA: G. & C. Merriam Com-

Cunningham, Donna. An Astrological Guide To Self-Awareness. pany, 1973.
Reno, NV: CRCS Publications, 1978. Graves, Robert. The Greek Myths. Baltimore: Penguin Books,

Davison, Ronald C. Astrology. New York: Arco Publishing 1955.
Company, 1963. Gray, Eden. Mastering the Tarot. New York: Crown Publishers,

De Vore, Nicholas. Encyclopedia of Astrology. New York: Philo- 1971.
sophical Library, 1947. Grebner, Bernice Prill. Decanates: A Full View. Tempe, AZ:

Evers, Joan, ed. Planets: The Astrological Tools. St. Paul, MN: American Federation of Astrologers, 1980.
Llewellyn Publications, 1989. Green, Landis Knight. The Astrologer’s Manual. New York:

Flammarion, Camille. The Flammarion Book of Astronomy. Arco Publishing Company, 1975.
New York: Simon and Schuster, 1964. Greene, Liz. Star Signs for Lovers. New York: Stein and Day

Frazer, Sir James George. Edited by Theodor H. Gaster. The Publishers, 1980.
New Golden Bough. New York: Criterion Books, 1959. ———. The Astrology of Fate. York Beach, ME: Samuel

Gauquelin, Michel. The Cosmic Clocks: From Astrology to a Weiser, 1984.
Modern Science. Chicago: Henry Regnery Company, Hall, Manly Palmer. Astrological Keywords. Los Angeles, CA:
1967. Philosophical Research Society, 1958.

Gettings, Fred. The Hand and the Horoscope. London: Triune ———. The Story of Astrology. New York: Philosophical Li-
Books, 1973. brary, 1959.

Gleadow, Rupert. The Origin of the Zodiac. New York: Harris, Janet. Astrology for Everyday Living. North Holly-
Atheneum, 1969. wood, CA: Wilshire Book Company, 1974.

Golder, Carole. The Seductive Art of Astrology. New York: Harvey, Charles & Suzi. Sun Sign, Moon Sign. London, Eng-
Henry Holt and Company, 1988. land: Thorsons, 1994.

———. Moon Signs for Lovers. New York: Henry Holt and The Holy Bible. King James Version.
Company, 1992. Howard, Neale E. The Telescope Handbook and Star Atlas.

Goldschneider, Gary, and Elffers, Joost. The Secret Language New York: Thomas Y. Crowell Company, 1975.
of Birthdays. New York: Penguin Studio Books, 1994. Ions, Veronica. Egyptian Mythology. Middlesex, England:

———. The Secret Language of Relationships. New York: Pen- Hamlyn Publishing Group, 1968.
guin Studio Books, 1997. Jayne, Charles. A New Dimension in Astrology. Monroe, NY:

Goodavage, Joseph F. Write Your Own Horoscope. New York: Astrological Bureau, 1975.
New American Library, 1968. Jones, Marc Edmund. The Guide to Horoscope Interpretation.

Goodman, Linda. Linda Goodman’s Sun Signs. New York: Ta- Stanwood, WA: Sabian Publishing Society, 1967.
plinger Publishing Company, 1968. ———. How to Learn Astrology. Boulder, CO: Shambhala

———. Linda Goodman’s Relationship Signs. New York: Ban- Publications, 1977.
tam Books, 1998.

5 1 6 • B i b l i o g r a p hy



Jung, C. G. Edited by Violet S. de Laszlo. Psyche and Symbol. Lexander, Ren, and Rose, Geraldine. Seduction By the Stars.
Garden City, NY: Doubleday and Company, 1958. New York: Bantam Books, 1995.

Jung, C. G. Synchronicity: An Acausal Connecting Principle. Lindsay, Jack. Origins of Astrology. New York: Barnes and No-
New York: Pantheon Books, 1955. ble, 1971.

Kaye, Doris. Your Astrological Guide to Nutrition. New York: Lofthus, Myrna. A Spiritual Approach to Astrology. Sebastopol,
Award Books, 1970. CA: CRCS Publications, 1983.

Keehn, Amy. Love and War Between the Signs. Rocklin, CA: Lundsted, Betty. Astrological Insights into Personality. San
Prima Publishing, 1997. Diego, CA: ACS Publications, 1980.

Kramer, Gerard Peter, and Middlehurst, Barbara M. Telescopes. Lutin, Michael. SunShine, The Astrology of Being Happy. New
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1960. York: Fireside, 2007.

Lamb, Terry. Born to Be Together. Carlsbad, CA: Hay House, MacNaughton, Robin. Robin MacNaughton’s Sun Sign Person-
1998. ality Guide. New York: Bantam Books, 1978.

Leach, Judith. How to Interpret Your Horoscope. New York: ———. Robin MacNaughton’s Moon Sign Personality Guide.
Harper and Row, 1978. New York: Bantam Books, 1979.

Lee, Dal. Dictionary of Astrology. New York: Warner Books, ———. How to Transform Your Life Through Astrology. New
1968. York: Bantam Books, 1983.

Lee, Fleming. Your Hidden Horoscope. North Hollywood, CA: ———. Power Astrology. New York: Pocket Books, 1990.
Brandon Books, 1971. ———. Goddess Power. New York: Pocket Books, 1996.

Leek, Sybil. My Life in Astrology. Englewood, NJ: Prentice- ———. Why Does He Say One Thing and Do Another? New
Hall, 1972. York: Pocket Books, 1997.

———. Moon Signs: Lunar Astrology. New York: Berkley Pub- ———. Smart Signs, Foolish Choices. New York: Citadel Press,
lishing Corporation, 1977. 2004

Lehner, Ernst and Johanna. Lore and Lure of Outer Space: As- McIntosh, Christopher. The Astrologers and Their Creed: An
trology and the Planetary World. New York: Tudor Pub- Historical Outline. New York: Frederick A. Praeger, 1969.
lishing Company, 1964. ———. Astrology, the Stars and Human Life: A Modern Guide.

Leo, Alan. Edited by Vivan E. Robson. The Complete Dictionary New York: Harper and Row, 1970.
of Astrology. New York: Astrologer’s Library, 1978. Menzel, D. H. Astronomy. New York: Random House, 1970.

Levine, Joyce. Breakthrough Astrology. York Beach, ME: Weiser Meyer, Michael R. A Handbook for the Humanistic Astrologer.
Books, 2006. Garden City, NY: Doubleday and Company, 1974.

Lewi, Grant. Heaven Knows What. St. Paul, MN: Llewellyn Miles, David. Sex and Astrology. New York: Paperback Library,
Publications, 1978. (1st ed. 1935). 1970.

———. Astrology for the Millions. St. Paul, MN: Llewellyn Moore, Marcia, and Douglas, Mark. Astrology, the Divine Sci-
Publications, 1979. (1st ed. 1940). ence. York Harbor, ME: Arcane Publications, 1971.

Lewis, James, R. The Astrology Encyclopedia. Detroit: Visible Munkasey, Michael. The Astrological Thesaurus. St. Paul, MN:
Ink Press, 1994. Llewellyn Publications, 1993.

B i b l i o g r a p hy • 5 1 7



Murchie, Guy. The Music of the Spheres. Boston: Houghton Prabhavananda, Swami. The Spiritual Heritage of India. Lon-
Mifflin Company, 1961. don: George Allen & Unwin, 1962.

Neely, Henry M. A Primer for Star-Gazers. New York: Harper Prete, Robert J., and Gallo, Angela Louise. Celebrity Horo-
and Row, 1970. scopes. North Hollywood, CA: Rising Sign Publishing

Nicholson, lain. The Road to the Stars. New York: William Company, 1975.
Morrow and Company, 1978. Ptolemy, Claudius. Edited and translated by F. E. Robbins. Tetra-

Norvell, Anthony. Astrology: Romance, You and the Stars. North biblos. London: William Heinemann, 1964.
Hollywood, CA: Wilshire Book Company, 1970. Quigley, Joan. Astrology for Adults. New York: Holt, Rinehart

________ . Astrology: Your Wheel of Fortune. New York: and Winston, 1969.
Barnes and Noble, 1974. Robson, Vivian E. The Fixed Stars and Constellations in As-

Oken, Alan. Alan Oken’s Complete Astrology. New York: Ban- trology. New York: Samuel Weiser, 1969.
tam Books, 1980. ———. A Beginner’s Guide to Practical Astrology. New York:

Omarr, Sydney. My World of Astrology. North Hollywood, CA: Samuel Weiser, 1976. (1st ed. 1930).
Wilshire Book Company, 1965. Rudaux, Lucien, and de Vaucouleurs, G. Larousse Encyclope-

———. Soul-Centered Astrology. New York: Bantam Books, dia of Astronomy. New York: Prometheus Press, 1967.
1990. Rudhyar, Dane. The Practice of Astrology. Baltimore: Penguin

———. Sydney Omarr’s Astrological Guide to Sex and Love. Books, 1968.
New York: New American Library, 1970. ———. The Astrology of Personality. Garden City, NY: Dou-

———. Sydney Omarr’s Astrological Revelations About You. bleday and Company, 1970. (1st ed. 1936).
New York: New American Library, 1973. ———. The Astrological Houses. Sebastopol, CA: CRCS Pub-

Orr, Marjorie. Lovers’ Guide. London, England: Aquarian lications, 1972.
Press, 1994. ———. Astrology and the Modern Psyche. Vancouver, WA:

Ottewell, Guy. Astronomical Calendar. Greenville, SC: Furman CRCS Publications, 1976.
University in cooperation with the Astronomical League. Ryder, Beatrice. Astrology: Your Personal Sun Sign Guide. New

Palmer, Lynne. Prosperity Signs. New York: Dell Publishing York: Fleet Publishing Company, 1969.
Company, 1981. Sagan, Carl. Cosmos. New York: Random House. 1980.

———. Signs for Success. New York: Dell Publishing Com- Sakoian, Frances, and Acker, Louis. The Astrologer’s Hand-
pany, 1982. book. New York: Harper and Row, 1973.

Parker, Derek and Julia. The Compleat Astrologer. New York: Schulman, Martin. Karmic Astrology. York Beach, ME: Samuel
McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1971. Weiser, 1978.

———. The Compleat Astrologer’s Love Signs. New York: Scott, Oral, E. The Stars in Myth and Fact. Caldwell, ID: Cax-
Grosset and Dunlap, 1974. ton Printers, 1942.

———. Parkers’ Astrology. New York: DK Publishing, 1991. Sepharial. New Dictionary of Astrology. New York: Arco Pub-
Polansky, Joseph. Sun Sign Success. New York: Warner Books, lishing Company, 1964.

1977. Smith, Debbi Kempton. Secrets from a Stargazer’s Notebook.
New York: Bantam Books, 1982.

5 1 8 • B i b l i o g r a p hy



Stearn, Jess. A Time for Astrology. New York: Coward, McCann White, Suzanne. Suzanne White’s Book of Chinese Chance.
and Geoghegan. 1971. New York: M. Evans Company, 1976.

Stellas, Constance. Advanced Astrology for Life. Avon, MA: ———. The New Astrology. New York: St. Martin’s Press,
Provenance Press, 2005. 1986.

Sun, Ruth Q. The Asian Animal Zodiac. Rutland, VT, and Wulff, Wilhelm Theodor H. Zodiac and Swastika: How Astrol-
Tokyo: Charles E. Tuttle Company, 1974. ogy Guided Hitler’s Germany. New York: Coward, Mc-

Velikovsky, Immanuel. Worlds in Collision. New York: Cann and Geoghegan, 1973.
Macmillan Company, 1950. Zain, C. C. Astrological Signatures. Los Angeles: Church of

Vorel, Irys. Be Your Own Astrologer. Hackensack, NJ: Wehman Light, 1972. (1st ed. 1925).
Brothers, 1967. Zolar. It’s All in the Stars. New York: Fleet Publishing Com-

West, John Anthony, and Toonder, Jan Gerhard. The Case for pany, 1962.
Astrology. New York: Coward, McCann and Geoghegan, ———. The History of Astrology. New York: Arco Publishing
1970. Company, 1972.

B i b l i o g r a p hy • 5 1 9



8
R E C O M M E N D E D  R E A D I N G  L I S T

F O R  C H A R T C A S T I N G  A N D  
I N T E R P R E T A T I O N

Astrology Made Easy by Astarte. Wilshire Book Company. The Compleat Astrologer by Derek and Julia Parker. McGraw-
Contains chart analyses of twelve well-known figures in Hill Book Company (hardcover); Bantam Books (paperback).
history. Also has instructions for chart casting. A modern look at chart interpretation. Good planetary ta-

bles.
Larousse Encyclopedia of Astrology by Jean-Louis Brau, Helen
Weaver, and Allan Edmands. McGraw-Hall Book Company. A Beginner’s Guide to Practical Astrology by Vivian E. Robson.

Excellent reference book. Samuel Weiser, Publishers.
A classic textbook on the mathematics of constructing a

Astrology by Ronald C. Davison. Arco Publishing Company. horoscope. First published in 1930.
A short, concise, basic textbook.

Be Your Own Astrologer by Irys Vorel. Wehman Brothers.
How to Learn Astrology by Marc Edmund Jones. Shambhala Concise rundown of signs, planets, horoscope analysis.
Publications. Distributed by Random House.

First published in 1921, still an excellent introduction to Secrets from a Stargazer’s Notebook: Making Astrology Work for
charts for beginning students. You by Debbi Kempton Smith. Bantam Books.

A breezy, modern look at planets, signs, houses. The au-
Heaven Knows What by Grant Lewi. Llewellyn Publications. thor makes chart interpretation intriguing and fun.

A classic work on chart interpretation.
Power Astrology: Make the Most of Your Sun Sign by Robin

Key Words for Astrology by Hajo Banzhof & Anna Haebler. MacNaughton. Pocket Books.
Samuel Weiser, Inc. This is not a book about charts, but an insightful discus-

An indispensable compendium that gives descriptions and sion on the deeper psychological issues of each sun sign. I
interpretations for every Sign, Planet, House, and Aspect. highly recommend this book; it is thought-provoking and

immensely interesting.

5 2 0



8
R E C O M M E N D E D  
E P H E M E R I D E S

American Ephemeris for the 20th Century, The by Neil Concise Planetary Ephemeris, The. The years 1900 through
Michelsen. The years 1900 through 2000 inclusive. The 1950 inclusive. The years 1950 through 2000 inclusive.
years 2001 through 2050 inclusive. Also available in The years 2001 through 2050.
ten-year editions (1971–1980, 1981–1990, etc.). Also Raphael Ephemerides. Published in one-year editions for any
available in one-year editions starting with the year year from 1832 through the present year.
1977. Rosicrucian Simplified Scientific Ephemeris. Published for

Complete Planetary Ephemeris, The. From the Hieratic Pub- every year from 1857 through 2009. Available in a sin-
lishing Company. The years 1950 through 2000 inclu- gle-year edition for any of these years. Also published in
sive. The years 2001 through 2050 inclusive. ten-year editions (1980–1989, 1990–1999, etc.).

5 2 1



8
S O U R C E S  F O R  A S T R O L O G I C A L

B O O K S , E P H E M E R I D E S ,
C O M P U T E R  C H A R T S  A N D

S O F T W A R E

The follow ing companies carry a whole range of analyses, or obtaining astrology software for your computer,
astrology-related material. Whether you’re looking for any of these sources can provide what you need.

books or ephemerides, ordering charts or interpretive chart-

American Federation of The Church of Light The Rosicrucian Fellowship
Astrologers, Inc. 2119 Gold Ave SE 222 Mission Ave
6535 S. Rural Rd Albuquerque, NM 87 106-4072 Oceanside, CA 92058-2329
Tempe, AZ 85283-3746 1-800-500-0453 www.rosicrucian.com
www.astrologers.com www.light.org

Samuel Weiser Publications
Astro Communications Services Llewellyn Publications & 65 Parker St, Suite 7
P. O. Box 1646 Astrological Services Newburyport, MA 01950
El Cajon, CA 92022-1646 2143 Wooddale Drive 1-800-423-7087
1-800-5 14-5070 Woodbury, MN 55 125-2989 www.weiserbooks.com
www.astrocom.com 1-87 7-639-9753

www.llewellyn.com Wilshire Book Company
Astrolabe 9731 Variel Ave
P. O. Box 1750 Matrix Software Chatsworth, CA 91311-4315
Brewster, MA 02631 126 S. Michigan Ave 1-818-700-1522
1-800-843-6682 Big Rapids, MI 49307 www.mpowers.com
www.alabe.com 1-800-PLANETS

www.astrologysoftware.com

5 2 2



8
I N D E X

Abou-Simbel, 374 Apollo (planet), 239 Aquinas, Thomas, 379
Achilles, 392 Aquarius, 58–63, 364n, 394, 407; 11th House Ara (constellation), 155
Adams, Evangeline (Aquarius), 193, 272, 380 ruled by, 298; Age of, 289, 399–401, Arab astrology, 379, 413
Adams, John Couch, 279 402–3, 407; air sign, 5, 58, 407; Aquarius Archer. See Sagittarius
Affinity, 407 and, 137; Aries and, 77–78, 136; ascen- Argo Navis (constellation), 150
Affliction, 247n, 407 dant, 234; Babylon naming of, 376; body Aries, 8–12, 384, 399, 408; 1st House ruled by,
Age of Aquarius, 289, 399–401, 402–3, 407 part ruled by, 58, 186; Cancer and, 95–96, 298; Age of, 401; Aquarius and, 77–78,
Ages, astrological, 399–401, 407; Aquarius, 136; Capricorn and, 131–32, 137; constel- 136; Aries and, 76; ascendant, 224; Baby-

289, 399–401, 402–3, 407; Aries, 401; lation of, 400; cusps of, 166; decanates of, lon naming of, 376; body part ruled by, 8,
Cancer, 401; Gemini, 401; Leo, 401; 157; dominant keyword, 58; and duality, 170; Cancer and, 76, 94; Capricorn and,
Pisces, 400, 402, 407; Taurus, 401 5, 58; erogenous zones, 187; famous peo- 77, 130; cardinal sign, 6, 409, 417; constel-

AIDS, 284, 288 ple with Moon in, 194, 217; famous peo- lation of, 399, 400; cusps of, 161; de-
Air signs, 5, 407, 410, 421; elements formula ple with Sun in, 63; fixed sign, 6, 410, 417; canates of, 147; dominant keyword, 8;

and, 331–32; Moon and, 197, 199, 201, Gemini and, 89, 136; glyph, 58, 321; and duality, 5, 8; erogenous zones,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211, 213, 215, 217, health, 187; Jupiter in, 263; legend, 394; 170–71; famous people with Moon in,
219. See also Aquarius; Gemini; Libra Leo and, 6, 28, 58, 101, 136; Libra and, 197; famous people with Sun in, 12; fire

Albumassar, 379 113, 137; love and, 133–38; Mars in, 256; sign, 5, 8, 410; Gemini and, 76, 88; glyph,
Alcmena, 387, 388 masculine sign, 5, 409, 414; Mercury in, 8, 322; health, 170; Jupiter in, 147, 260;
Alexander the Great (Cancer), 377–78 157, 245; Moon in, 216–17; Neptune in, legend, 384; Leo and, 76–77, 100; Libra
Allen, Woody (Sagittarius), 50, 194 278, 282; Pisces and, 138, 144; Pluto in, and, 6, 8, 38, 77, 112; love and, 73–78;
Allul, 387 289; and polarities, 6, 28, 58; quadriplic- Mars in, 147, 254; masculine sign, 5, 409,
Altar of Noah (constellation), 155 ity, 58; ruled by Uranus, 58, 234, 403, 407, 414; Mercury in, 242; Moon in, 196–97;
American frontier, 286 421; Sagittarius and, 125–26, 137; Saturn Neptune in, 279–80; Pisces and, 78, 142;
Andromeda (constellation), 147 in, 239, 269; Scorpio and, 119, 137; sym- Pluto in, 286; and polarities, 6, 8, 38;
Angles of horoscope, 343–44, 407 bol of, 58, 137, 394; Taurus and, 83–84, quadriplicity, 8; ruled by Mars, 8, 224,
Angular Houses, 299, 344, 407 136; traits, 59–62; triplicity, 5, 58, 407; 408, 414; Sagittarius and, 77, 125; Saturn
Antiwar movement, 281 Uranus in, 157, 275–76; Venus in, 157, in, 266; Scorpio and, 77, 118; Sun and,
Anubis (god), 390 250–51; Virgo and, 107, 137 147; symbol of, 9, 78, 384; Taurus and, 76,
Anunitum (goddess), 395 Aquila (constellation), 154 82; traits, 9–11; triplicity, 5, 8, 410;

5 2 3



Uranus in, 273; Venus in, 247–48; Virgo 379–81; Mundane, 415; Roman, 195, Bull. See Taurus
and, 77, 106 378–79; Sidereal, 403–4, 419; Sumerian, Bundle chart, 336

Aristokrates, 376 371, 375; Systems, 403–4; Traditional Byron, Lord (Aquarius), 202
Ascendant, 221–23, 322, 343–44, 365–66, 408, (tropical), 403–4, 419

418; Aquarius, 234; Aries, 224; Cancer, Astronomy: Jupiter, 259; Mars, 253; Mercury,
227; Capricorn, 233; Gemini, 226; Health 241; Neptune, 279; planetary movement, Cadent Houses, 299, 408
and, 168–69; Leo, 228; Libra, 230; Oprah 375, 377–78; Pluto, 285; Saturn, 265; Cadere, 299, 408
Winfrey and, 322, 325, 329, 330; Part of Uranus, 273; Venus, 247 Campanus system, 412
fortune, 419; Pisces, 235; Sagittarius, 232; Athamus, 384 Cancer, 23–27, 387, 408; 4th House ruled by,
Scorpio, 231; Shortcut method, 484; Sun Augustine of Hippo, 379 298; Age of, 401; Aquarius and, 95–96,
and, 366; Synastry and, 365–66; Tables, Augustus Caesar, 378 136; Aries and, 76, 94; ascendant, 227;
223, 481–83; Taurus, 225; Virgo, 229; Auriga (constellation), 149 body part ruled by, 23, 174; Cancer and,
Ashe, Arthur, 209 Autumnal equinox, 399, 400, 410, 417 94; Capricorn and, 6, 23, 53, 95, 130; car-

Aspects, 349–50, 408; Conjunction, 351, 364, dinal sign, 6, 409, 417; cusps of, 162, 163;
366, 409; Grand Cross, 411; Grand Trine, decanates of, 150; dominant keyword, 23;
411; Jupiter, 354–59; Major and minor, Babel Tower, 375 and duality, 5, 23; erogenous zone, 175;
350–52; Mars, 354–58; Meaning of, 353; Babylonian astrology, 293, 375–77, 387, 389, famous people with Moon in, 194–95,
Mercury, 354–56; Moon, 354–55; Nep- 393–95, 399–400 203; famous people with Sun in, 27; femi-
tune, 354–61; Opposition, 351, 353, 364, Bamboo Annals, 374 nine sign, 5, 409–10; Gemini and, 88, 94;
366, 416; Orb, 416; Quincunx, 352, 417; Barnard, Christiaan (Scorpio), 45 glyph, 23, 321; health, 174–75; Jupiter in,
Saturn, 354–60; Semisextile, 352, 364, Berlin Wall, 288 261; legend, 387; Leo and, 94, 100; Libra
418–19; Semisquare, 352, 419; Biblical references, 362, 375, 377 and, 95, 112; and love, 91–96; Mars in,
Sesquisquare, 352, 419; Sextile, 351, 364, Bibliography, 515–19 254; Mercury in, 243; Moon in, 150,
366, 419; Square, 351, 364, 365, 366, 420; Big Dipper (Ursa Major), 151, 372 202–3; Neptune in, 150, 280; Pisces and,
Sun, 354; Symbols, 351–52; Synastry, Birth charts, 319–21, 347, 408; Interpretation 96, 142; Pluto in, 150, 286–87; as polarity,
349–53, 364–67; Transits, 362, 420; Trine, of, 323–30; Oprah Winfrey’s birth chart, 6, 23, 53; quadriplicity, 23; ruled by
351, 353, 363, 364, 366, 420; t-square, 421; 322. See also horoscope Moon, 23, 227, 408, 415; Sagittarius and,
Uranus, 354–60; Venus, 354–57 Blavatsky, Helena, 380 95, 125; Saturn in, 267; Scorpio and, 95,

Association for Studying Chiron, 238 Bode’s Law, 259 118; symbol of, 23, 96, 387; Taurus and,
Assurbanipal (king), 376 Boetia, 384 82, 94; traits, 24–26; triplicity, 5, 23, 421;
Assyria, 375, 401 Bogart, Humphrey (Capricorn), 202 Uranus in, 274; Venus in, 248; Virgo and,
Asteroid belt, 259 Bonaparte, Napoleon (Leo), 214 95, 106; water sign, 5, 23, 421
Astraea (Virgo), 389, 390. See also Virgo Book of Knowledge, 5 Canis Major (constellation), 150
Astral twins, 237 Bootes (constellation), 152 Canis Minor (constellation), 150
Astrologer’s Magazine, 380 Boston University, 372 Capricorn, 53–57, 364n, 393, 408; 10th House
Astrologers of the circus, 378 Bowl pattern, 336 ruled by, 298; Aquarius and, 131–32, 137;
Astrology, 408; Arab, 379, 413; Babylonian, Brittany, 372 Aries and, 77, 130; ascendant, 233; Baby-

293, 375–77, 387, 389, 393–95, 399–400; Browning, Elizabeth Barrett (Pisces), 66 lon naming of, 376; body part ruled by,
Chinese, 374–75, 413; Egyptian, 145, 371, Bucket chart, 337 53, 185; Cancer and, 6, 23, 53, 95, 130;
373–74, 387, 390; Greek, 5, 145, 195, 376, Buckley, William F. (Sagittarius), 50 Capricorn and, 131; cardinal sign, 6, 53,
377–78; Hindu, 372–73, 413; Modern era, Buddha, 374 409, 417; cusps of, 159–60, 165, 166; de-

5 2 4 • I n d e x



canates of, 156; dominant keyword, 53; Charioteer. See Auriga Darwin, Charles (Aquarius), 61, 280
duality and, 5, 53; earth sign, 5, 53, 410; Chichen Itza, 372 Day-for-a-year method, 362
erogenous zone, 186; famous people with China, 287 Decan, 373
Moon in, 215; famous people with Sun in, Chinese astrology, 374–75, 413 Decanate, 373
57; feminine sign, 5, 410; Gemini and, 89, Chiron (centaur), 238, 392 Decanates, 145–46, 373, 409; Aquarius, 157;
130; glyph, 53, 321; health, 185–86; Chiron (planet), 238 Aries, 147; Cancer, 150; Capricorn, 156;
Jupiter in, 262–63; legend, 393; Leo and, Chopin, Frederic (Pisces), 66 Gemini, 149; Leo, 151; Libra, 164; Pisces,
101, 130–31; Libra and, 113, 131; and Christianity and astrology, 379, 402 158; Sagittarius, 155; Scorpio, 154; Tau-
love, 127–32; Mars in, 256; Mercury in, Church of Light, 400 rus, 148; Virgo, 152. See also subrulers
156, 244–45; Moon in, 156, 214–15; Nep- Cicero, 376 Dee, John, 379
tune in, 278, 282; Pisces and, 132, 143; City-states, 375, 401 Degrees, 222, 223, 349–50
Pluto in, 284, 289; and polarities, 6, 23, Civil rights, 281, 287 Dekanoi, 145, 373
53; quadriplicity, 53; ruled by Saturn, 53, Civil War, 280, 286 Delphic oracle, 195, 384
223, 408, 418; Sagittarius and, 125, 131; Cleopatra, 378 Delphinus (constellation), 157
Saturn in, 53, 156, 269; Scorpio and, 119, Clytemnestra, 386 Descendant, 343–44, 345, 409
131; symbol of, 53, 132, 393; Taurus and, Colchis, 384 Deucalion, 394
83, 130; traits, 54–56; triplicity, 5, 53, 410; Compatibility, 364–67 Diana (goddess), 391
Uranus in, 275; Venus in, 156, 250; Virgo Computer sevices, 223, 349–50, 523 Diet. See also Health; specific signs
and, 107, 131 Confucius (Virgo), 374 Direct motion, 409

Caput Draconis, 415 Conjunctions, 351, 364, 366, 409 Dispositor, 342, 409
Caracol observatory, 372 Consciousness, 193, 278, 289 Doyle, Arthur Conan (Gemini), 20
Card reading, 362 Constellations, 383, 399–400, 403–4, 409 Draco (constellation), 156
Cardinal signs, 6, 408–9, 413; formula, 334. See Copernicus, Nicolaus (Pisces), 411 Dragon’s Head. See Nodes

also Aries; Cancer; Capricorn; Libra Corona Australis (constellation), 156 Dragon’s Tail. See Nodes
Carnac, 372 Corona Borealis (constellation), 153 Druids, 371–72 
Caruso, Enrico (Pisces), 66 Corvus (constellation), 153 Duality, 5, 409–10; Aquarius, 5, 58; Aries, 5, 8;
Casa Grande, 372 Coward, Noel (Sagittarius), 50 Cancer, 5, 23; Capricorn, 5, 53; Gemini, 5,
Cassini, 265 Crab. See Cancer 18; Leo, 5, 28; Libra, 5, 38; Pisces, 5, 64;
Cassiopeia (constellation), 147, 377 Crater (constellation), 152 Sagittarius, 5, 48; Scorpio, 5, 43; Taurus, 5,
Castor, 386, 392 Crete, 385 13; Virgo, 5, 33
Caucasus, Mount, 389 Cupid, 395
Cauda Draconis, 415 Curie, Marie (Scorpio), 45
Celestial Branches, 374 Cuspis, 159–66 Ea (god), 393
Celestial equator, 409 Cusps, 159–60, 409; Aquarius, 166; Aries, 161; Earth, 399–400, 403–4, 410
Celestial Stem, 374 Cancer, 159, 162; Capricorn, 159–60, 165; Earth signs, 5, 407, 410, 421; elements formula
Celestial Taskmaster (Saturn), 264 Gemini, 162; of Houses, 159n, 345; Leo, and, 331–32; love and, 103; Moon and,
Centaur, 153 159, 163; Libra, 164; Pisces, 166; Sagittar- 197, 199, 201, 203, 205, 207, 209, 211, 213,
Centaurus (constellation), 153 ius, 159–60, 165; Scorpio, 164; Taurus, 215, 217, 219. See also Capricorn; Taurus;
Cepheus (constellation), 158 161; Virgo, 163 Virgo
Cetus (constellation), 147 Cygnus (constellation), 158 Ecliptic, 383, 399, 404, 410
Chaldeans, 374, 387. See also Babylonian as- Edison, Thomas Alva (Aquarius), 61, 214

trology Ego, theory of, 193 

I n d e x • 5 2 5



Egyptian astrology, 145, 371, 373–74, 387, 390; Feminine signs, 5, 410. See also Cancer; Capri- ple with Moon in, 201; famous people,
Hermetic Theory, 4–5, 411–12 corn; Duality; Pisces; Scorpio; Taurus; with Sun in, 22; Gemini, 88; glyph, 18,

Egyptian civilization, 401 Virgo 321; health, 173–74; Jupiter in, 260–61;
Eighth House (House of Death and Regenera- Fifth House (House of Pleasure, Creativity, legend, 386; Leo and, 88, 100; Libra and,

tion), 296, 312–13, 412; quarter, 340; and Sex), 295, 307–8, 412; quarter, 340; 89, 112; and love, 85–90; Mars in, 254;
ruled by Scorpio, 298; Succedent, 299, 420 ruled by Leo, 298; Succedent, 299, 420 masculine sign, 5, 409, 414; Mercury in,

Einstein, Albert (Pisces), 280 Fire signs, 5, 407, 410, 421; elements formula 149, 242–43; Moon in, 200–201; mutable
Elements, 410. See also triplicity and, 331–32; Moon and, 197, 199, 201, sign, 6, 415, 417; Neptune in, 280; Pisces
Eleventh House (House of Friends and of 203, 205, 207, 209, 211, 213, 215, 217, and, 90, 142; Pluto in, 286; and polarities,

Hopes and Wishes), 297, 316–17, 412; 219. See also Aries; Leo; Sagittarius 6, 18, 48; quadriplicity, 18; ruled by Mer-
quarter, 340; ruled by Aquarius, 298; First House (House of Self), 294, 301–2, 344, cury, 18, 226, 410, 414; Sagittarius and, 6,
Succedent, 299, 420 412; Angular, 299, 344, 407; quarter, 340; 18, 48, 89, 125; Saturn in, 267; Scorpio

Elizabeth I (Virgo), 379 ruled by Aries, 298 and, 89, 118; symbol of, 18, 90, 386; Tau-
England, 286, 380 Fixed signs, 6, 410, 417; formula, 333–34. See rus and, 82, 88; traits, 19–21; triplicity, 5,
Enlightenment, Age of, 380 also Aquarius; Leo; Scorpio; Taurus 18, 407; Uranus in, 149, 274; Venus in,
Entertainment industry, 261, 281 Ford, Harrison (Cancer), 202 149, 248; Virgo and, 89, 106 
Environment, 281, 402 Ford, Henry, 280 Geocentric horoscope, 411
Eos (goddess), 391 Fortune, part of, 416 George III (king), 271 
Ephemeris, 159, 349, 362, 410 Fourth House (House of Beginnings and Georgium Sidus (planet), 271
Epimetheus, 389 Home Life), 295, 306–7, 344, 412; Angu- Giza, 371 
Equal House system, 412 lar, 299, 344, 407; Nadir and, 415; quarter, Glyph, 321, 411
Equal Rights Amendment, 288 340; ruled by Cancer, 298 Goat. See Capricorn
Equinoxes, 372, 399–400, 404, 410; precession France, 372 Goebbels, Joseph, 380

of, 400, 407, 417, 419 Freedom of Information Act, 288 Golden Age, 389, 390, 394
Equuleus (constellation), 157 Freud, Sigmund (Taurus), 193, 200, 278, 280 Golden Fleece, 386
Eridanus (constellation), 148 Fu Hsi (emperor), 374 Golden Ram, 384
Erogenous zones, 168–69; Aquarius, 187; Grand Cross, 411

Aries, 170–71; Cancer, 175; Capricorn, Grand Trine, 411
186; Gemini, 174; Leo, 177; Libra, 180; Galilei, Galileo (Pisces), 265 Great Depression, 281, 284
Pisces, 189; Sagittarius, 184; Scorpio, 182; Galileo, 259 Great Month, 400, 404, 407
Taurus, 172; Virgo, 178–79 Galle, Johann Gottfried, 279 Great Society, 287

Eudoxos, 377 Garcia Marquez, Gabriel, 207 Great Year, 400–401, 407
Euphrates river, 393, 395 Gemini, 18–22, 386, 410; 3rd House ruled by, Greater Fortune (Jupiter), 258, 413
Europa, 385 298; Age of, 401; air sign, 5, 18, 407; Greek astrology, 5, 145, 195, 376, 377–78
Europe, 288 Aquarius and, 89, 136; Aries and, 76, 88; Green, Landis Knight, 194
Evening Star, 241, 247, 377 ascendant, 226; Babylon naming of, 376; Greenwich Mean Time, 223, 413
Eye of Horus, 373 body part ruled by, 18, 173; Cancer and, The Guide to Horoscope Interpretation (Jones),

88, 94; Capricorn and, 89, 130; constella- 334
tion of, 404; cusps of, 162; decanates of,

Fagan, Cyril, 400, 412 149; dominant keyword, 18; and duality,
Father Time, 264 5, 18; erogenous zone, 174; famous peo-

5 2 6 • I n d e x



Hadrian, 379 in dominion, 345; planets in mutual re- Jason, 386, 392
Hap (god), 394 ception, 346, 415; progressed birth chart, Jayne, Charles, 332, 400
Hare. See Lepus 362–63, 417; qualities formula, 333–34; Jesus Christ, 377, 402
Harmony of the Spheres (Pythagoras), 377 quarters, 340; recommended reading, 520; Jewish astrology, 377
Hawkins, Gerald S., 372 ruler of Moon, 342; ruler of Sun, 341–42; Julius Caesar, 378
Hayden Planetarium, 285 ruling planet, 341; shortcut methods, 484; Jung, Carl (Leo), 280, 400
Health, 167–68; anatomy, 167–69; Aquarius, synastry, 364–67. See also Aspects; Houses Juno (goddess), 385, 387, 388

187; Aries, 170; ascendant and, 168–69; Horus, 241 Jupiter, 48, 258–63, 413; in 1st House, 302; in
Cancer, 174–75; Capricorn, 185–86; Gem- House division, 412 2nd House, 303; in 3rd House, 305; in 4th
ini, 173–74; Leo, 176–77; Libra, 179–80; House of Karma. See Twelfth House House, 306; in 5th House, 308; in 6th
medical astrology, 414; Pisces, 188–89; Houses, 293–318, 365–66, 412; Angular, 299, House, 309; in 7th House, 311; in 8th
Sagittarius, 183–84; Scorpio, 181–82; Tau- 345, 407; Babylonian, 376; Cadent, 299, House, 312; in 9th House, 314; in 10th
rus, 171–72; Virgo, 178. See also eroge- 408; cusps, 159n, 345; of endings, 300; House, 315; in 11th House, 316; in 12th
nous zones kinds of, 299–300; of life, 300; planets in, House, 318; in Aquarius, 263; in Aries,

Hebrew, 377 301–18; of relationships, 300; rulers of, 147, 260; aspects, 354–59; astronomical
Helen of Troy, 386 298; Succedent, 299, 420; table of, 420; of facts, 259; in Cancer, 261; in Capricorn,
Heliocentric horoscope, 411 wealth, 300. See also Aspects; Horoscope; 262–63; form ruler of Pisces, 413, 415,
Helle, 384 individual Houses such as First House 418; in Gemini, 260–61; glyph, 321;
Hellespont, 384 Hydra, 387 Greater Fortune, 258, 413; Greek designa-
Hemispheres, 339–40, 411 Hydra (constellation), 151 tion, 377; in Leo, 151, 261; in Libra, 262;
Henry II (king), 379 Mars and, 358; Mercury and, 356; Moon
Henry VIII, 197 and, 355; Neptune and, 359; in Pisces,
Hercules, 152, 387, 388, 392 I.C. See Nadir 263, 413; Pluto and, 359; ruling Sagittar-
Hercules (constellation), 152 Ice Age, 371 ius, 48, 49, 232, 413, 418; in Sagittarius,
Hermes, 384 I Ching, 362 155, 262; Saturn and, 359; in Scorpio, 262;
Hermetic theory, 4–5, 411–12 Id, theory of, 193 as subruler, 147, 151, 155; Sun and, 354;
Herschel, William, 271, 380 Imhotep, 371 tables of, 501–5; in Taurus, 260; Uranus
Herschel (planet). See Uranus Imum Coeli (Nadir), 343, 344, 407, 415 and, 359; Venus and, 357; in Virgo,
Hess, Rudolph, 380 Incas, 371 261–62
Hindu astrology, 372–73, 413 Indian culture (Asian) and astrology, 372–73 Jupiter (god), 258, 384, 385, 386, 387, 388, 389,
Hipparchus, 400 Industrialism, 280 391, 392, 394, 395
Hippocrates, 167 Information, 286, 401 Justice. See Libra
Hitler, Adolph, 284 Information Age, 288
Hohokam Indians, 372 Ingress, 413
Horary charts, 362, 412 Ino, 384 Kanin, Garson, 50
Horizon, 344, 412 Instinct, 193 Karma, 372, 413
Horoscopes, 408, 412; Angles of, 343–44, 407; International Astronomical Union, 285 Karma, House of, 297. See also Twelfth House

casting, 319–24; chart types, 334–37; divi- Ishtar (goddess), 375 Keats, John (Scorpio), 200
sions of, 320–21; elements formula, Isis (goddess), 373 Kelly, Gene (Virgo), 214
331–32; four power points, 343–44; hemi- Kennedy, John F. (Gemini), 281, 287
spheres, 338–39; interpretation, 323–24, Kennedy, Robert (Scorpio), 281, 287
347–48; natal v. solar chart, 419; planets King, Martin Luther, Jr. (Capricorn), 287

I n d e x • 5 2 7



Kipling, Rudyard (Capricorn), 200 Lepus (constellation), 149 pio, 115–20; and synastry, 364–67; Tau-
Koch system, 412 Lesser Fortune (Venus), 258 rus, 79–84; Virgo, 103–8
Korean War, 287 Lexicon, 407–21 Love generation, 281
Kowal, Charles, 238 Libra, 38–42, 390, 413; 7th House ruled by, Lowell, Percival, 285
Krafft, Karl Ernst, 380 298; air sign, 5, 38, 407; Aquarius and, Lowell Observatory, 283, 285
Kuiper Belt, 285 113, 137; Aries and, 6, 8, 38, 77, 112; as- Luminaries, 3, 413, 416. See also Moon; Sun
Kun (constellation), 295 cendant, 230; autumnal equinox and, Lunar Mansions, 372, 413

399, 410; Babylon naming of, 376; body Lunar return chart, 362, 414
part ruled by, 38, 179; Cancer and, 95, Lunation, 414

Lardner, Ring (Pisces), 10 112; Capricorn and, 113, 131; cardinal Lupus (constellation), 154
Latitude, 413, 481–84 sign, 6, 409, 417; constellation of, 399, Lyra (constellation), 156
Leash (constellation), 395 404; cusps of, 164; decanates of, 164;
Leda, 386 dominant keyword, 38; duality and, 5,
Leo, 28–32, 388, 413; 5th House ruled by, 38; erogenous zone, 180; famous people Magellan, 247

298; Age of, 401; Aquarius and, 6, 28, 58, with Moon in, 209; famous people with Man in Microcosm, 4
101, 136; Aries and, 76–77, 100; ascen- Sun in, 42; Gemini and, 89, 112; glyph, Mariner 10, 241
dant, 228; Babylon naming of, 376; body 38, 321; health, 179–80; Jupiter in, 262; Mark Antony, 378 
part ruled by, 28, 176; Cancer and, 94, legend, 390; Leo and, 101, 112; Libra Mars, 8, 252–57, 414; in 1st House, 302; in
100; Capricorn and, 101, 130–31; cusps and, 113; and love, 109–14; Mars in, 255; 2nd House, 303; in 3rd House, 305; in 4th
of, 159, 163; decanates of, 151; dominant masculine sign, 5, 409, 414; Mercury in, House, 306; in 5th House, 308; in 6th
keyword, 28; and duality, 5, 28; eroge- 153, 244; Moon in, 208–9; Neptune in, House, 309; in 7th House, 310–11; in 8th
nous zone, 177; famous people with 281; Pisces and, 113–14, 143; Pluto in, House, 312; in 9th House, 313; in 10th
Moon in, 205; famous people with Sun 287–88; and polarities, 6, 8, 38; quadrip- House, 315; in 11th House, 316; in 12th
in, 32; fire sign, 5, 28, 410; fixed sign, 6, licity, 38; ruled by Venus, 38, 230, 413, House, 317; in Aquarius, 256; in Aries, 8,
410, 417; Gemini and, 88, 100; glyph, 28, 421; Sagittarius and, 113, 125; Saturn in, 147, 254; aspects, 354–58; astronomical
321; health, 176–77; Jupiter in, 151, 261; 268; Scorpio and, 113, 119; symbol of, facts, 253; in Cancer, 254; in Capricorn,
legend, 388; Leo and, 100; Libra and, 38, 114, 390; Taurus and, 83, 112; traits, 256; discovery of, 377; former ruler of
101, 112; and love, 97–102; Mars in, 151, 39–41; triplicity, 5, 38, 407; Uranus in, Scorpio, 414, 417, 418; in Gemini, 254;
255; masculine sign, 5, 409, 414; Mercury 153, 275; Venus in, 153, 249; Virgo and, glyph, 321; Greek designation, 377;
in, 243; Moon in, 204–5; Neptune in, 107, 112–13 Jupiter and, 358; in Leo, 151, 255; in Li-
280–81; Pisces and, 102, 142–43; Pluto Lilly, William, 379 bra, 255; Mercury and, 356; Moon and,
in, 287; and polarities, 6, 28, 58; quadrip- Lincoln, Abraham (Aquarius), 61, 214 355; Neptune and, 358; in Pisces, 256–57;
licity, 28; ruled by Sun, 28, 151, 228, 413, Lion. See Leo Pluto and, 358; ruling Aries, 8, 224, 408,
420; Sagittarius and, 101, 125; Saturn in, Little Dipper (Ursa Minor), 151 414; in Sagittarius, 155, 256; Saturn and,
267–68; Scorpio and, 101, 118–19; sym- Locomotive chart, 337 358; in Scorpio, 255–56; as subruler, 147,
bol of, 28, 102, 388; Taurus and, 82, 100; London, Great Fire of, 379 151, 155; Sun and, 354; synastry and,
traits, 29–31; triplicity, 5, 28, 410; Uranus Longitude, 413 366–67; tables of, 497–500; in Taurus,
in, 274; Venus in, 249; Virgo and, 101, Love, 71–72; Aquarius, 133–38; Aries, 73–78; 254; Uranus and, 358; Venus and, 357,
106 Cancer, 91–96; Capricorn, 127–32; Gem- 366–67; in Virgo, 255

Leo, Alan, 380 ini, 85–90; Leo, 97–102; Libra, 109–14; Mars (god), 252, 375
Leo X (pope), 379 Pisces, 139–44; Sagittarius, 121–26; Scor- Marx, Karl (Taurus), 198, 280, 286

5 2 8 • I n d e x



Masculine signs, 5, 409, 414. See also Aquarius; Midler, Bette (Sagittarius), 194 Nadir (Imum Coeli), 343–44, 407, 415
Aries; Duality; Gemini; Leo; Libra; Sagit- Millay, Edna St.Vincent (Pisces), 66 NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
tarius Milton, John (Sagittarius), 198 ministration), 285

Mayan astrology, 278, 289, 371 Minerva (goddess), 395 Natal chart, 222, 322n. See also horoscope
Mazel tov, 377 Modern Astrology, 380 Nazis, 284, 286, 380
Mazelot, 377 Modern era and astrology, 379–81 Nektanebos, 377
M.C. See Midheaven Modern planets. See Neptune; Pluto; Uranus Nemean Lion, 388
McCutcheon, Capel, x, 400, 481 Money signs, 15, 26 Neolithic period, 401
Medical astrology, 414 Monroe, Marilyn (Gemini), 20 Nephele, 384
Medici, Catherine di, 379 Moon, 23, 415; in 1st House, 301; in 2nd Neptune, 5n, 64, 238, 265n, 277–82, 415; in 1st
Medici family, 379 House, 303; in 3rd House, 304; in 4th House, 302; in 2nd House, 304; in 3rd
Medium Coeli (Midheaven), 343, 344, 407, House, 306; in 5th House, 307; in 6th House, 305; in 4th House, 307; in 5th

414 House, 309; in 7th House, 310; in 8th House, 308; in 6th House, 310; in 7th
Mencken, H. L., 4 House, 312; in 9th House, 313; in 10th House, 311; in 8th House, 313; in 9th
Menhirs of Carnac, 372 House, 314; in 11th House, 316; in 12th House, 314; in 10th House, 315; in 11th
Mercury, 18, 240–245, 414; in 1st House, 301; House, 317; Age of Cancer and, 401; in House, 317; in 12th House, 318; in Aquar-

in 2nd House, 303; in 3rd House, 304; in Aquarius, 216–17; in Aries, 196–97; as- ius, 278, 282; in Aries, 279–80; aspects,
4th House, 306; in 5th House, 307; in 6th pects, 354–55; Babylonian astrology and, 354–61; astronomical facts, 279; in Can-
House, 309; in 7th House, 310; in 8th 375; in Cancer, 150, 202–3; in Capricorn, cer, 150, 280; in Capricorn, 278, 282; dis-
House, 312; in 9th House, 313; in 10th 156, 214–15; eclipses, 415; Egyptians and, covery of, 5n, 380, 415; in Gemini, 280;
House, 315; in 11th House, 316; in 12th 372–73; feminine nature, 365; in Gemini, glyph, 321; Jupiter and, 359; in Leo,
House, 317; in Aquarius, 157, 245; in 200–201; glyph, 321; inner psyche and, 280–81, 286; in Libra, 281; Mars and, 358;
Aries, 242; aspects, 354–56; astronomical 194; Jupiter and, 355; in Leo, 204–5; in Li- Mercury and, 356; Moon and, 355; in
facts, 241; in Cancer, 243; in Capricorn, bra, 208–9; Mars and, 355; Mercury and, Pisces, 158, 282; Pluto and, 361; retro-
156, 244–45; in Gemini, 18, 149, 242–43; 355; Neptune and, 355; in Pisces, 158, grade movement, 279, 417–18; ruling
discovery of, 377; glyph, 321; Greek desig- 218–19; Pluto and, 355; ruling Cancer, 23, Pisces, 64, 235, 413, 415, 416, 418; in
nation, 377; Jupiter and, 356; in Leo, 243; 227, 408, 415; in Sagittarius, 212–13; Sat- Sagittarius, 282; Saturn and, 360; in Scor-
in Libra, 113; Mars and, 356; Moon and, urn and, 355; in Scorpio, 154, 210–11; as pio, 154, 281; as subruler, 150, 154, 158;
355; Neptune and, 356; in Pisces, 245; subruler, 150, 154, 158; Sun and, 354, 365; Sun and, 354; tables of, 512; in Taurus,
Pluto and, 356; ruling Gemini, 18, 226, and Sun signs, 193–95; tables of, 429–80; 280; Uranus and, 360; Venus and, 357; in
410, 414; ruling Virgo, 33, 229, 414, 421; in Taurus, 198–99; Uranus and, 355; Virgo, 281
in Sagittarius, 244; Saturn and, 356; in Venus and, 355 in Virgo, 206–7 Neptune (god), 277, 391, 394, 415
Scorpio, 244; as subruler, 148, 149, 152, Moon signs, 4, 193–219, 221, 222. Nero, 379
153, 156, 157; Sun and, 354; tables of, Morin, Jean-Baptiste, 352 New Moon. See Lunation
485–90; in Taurus, 148, 242; Uranus and, Morinus system, 412 Nigidius, 378
356; in Virgo, 152, 243; Venus and, 33, 356 Morning Star, 241, 247 Nijinsky, Vaslav (Pisces), 66

Mercury (god), 240, 384 Mundane astrology, 415 Nile River, 373, 387, 394
Meridian, 344, 414 Mutable signs, 6, 415; formula, 334–35. See Ninth House (House of Mental Exploration
Mesopotamia, 393 also Gemini; Pisces; Sagittarius; Virgo and Long-Distance Travel), 296, 313–14,
Midheaven (Medium Coeli), 343, 344, 407, Mutual reception, 346, 415 412; Cadent, 299, 408; quarter, 340; ruled

414 by Sagittarius, 298

I n d e x • 5 2 9



Nodes, 347–48, 415–16; Lunar, 347; North, 90, 142; glyph, 64, 321; health, 188–89; in Pisces, 158, 289; retrograde movement,
347; South, 347 Jupiter in, 263, 413; legend, 395; Leo and, 279, 417–18; ruling Scorpio, 43, 231, 414,

Nostradamus, 379, 380 102, 142–43; Libra and, 113–14, 143; and 415, 417, 418; in Sagittarius, 288; Saturn
Nureyev, Rudolph (Pisces), 66 love, 139–44; Mars in, 256–57; Mercury and, 360; in Scorpio, 43, 154, 288; as sub-
Nut (goddess), 373 in, 245; Moon in, 158, 218–19; mutable ruler, 150, 154, 158; Sun and, 354; tables

sign, 6, 415, 417; Neptune in, 158, 282; of, 513; in Taurus, 286; Uranus and, 360;
Pisces and, 144; Pluto in, 158, 289; and Venus and, 357; in Virgo, 287

Observatories, 371–72 polarities, 6, 33, 64; quadriplicity, 64; Pluto (god), 283
One-day-for-one-year rule, 362 ruled by Neptune, 64, 235, 413, 415, 416, Pluto Express, 285
Ophiuchus (constellation), 155 418; Sagittarius and, 126, 143; Saturn in, Polarity, 6, 417; Aquarius, 28, 58; Aries, 8, 38;
Oppositions, 351, 353, 364, 366, 416 269–70; Scorpio and, 120, 143; symbol of, Cancer, 23, 53; Capricorn, 23, 53; Gemini,
Orb of influence, 416 64, 144, 395; Taurus and, 84, 142; traits, 18, 48; Leo, 28, 58; Libra, 8, 38; Pisces, 33,
Orbit, 416 65–67; triplicity, 5, 64, 421; Uranus in, 64; Sagittarius, 18, 48; Scorpio, 13, 43;
Orion (constellation), 149, 150, 391 276; Venus in, 251; Virgo and, 6, 33, 64, Taurus, 13, 43; Virgo, 33, 64
Osiris (god), 373 108, 143; water sign, 5, 64, 421 Pole star, 158

Piscis Austrinus (constellation), 157 Pollux, 386, 392
Placidus system, 412 Polo, Marco, 374

Palestine, 377 Planets, 416; angles, 343–44; birth sign and, Popes, 379
Palmistry, 5 237–39; chart type and, 324, 326–27; Chi- Poseidon, 150
Pan (god), 393 ron, 238; degrees of, 349–51, 362; in do- Power points, 343–44
Pandora, 389, 394 minion, 345; glyphs, 321; in Houses, Praesepe (Cancer), 376
Papyrus of Ani, 390 293–301; luminaries, 413, 416; modern, Precession of the equinoxes, 400, 407, 417, 419
Pars Fortuna, 416 415; in mutual reception, 346, 415; orbits, Prediction, 362–63, 378 
Part of Fortune, 416 416; ruling, 341; transits, 362, 420. See Progressed birth charts, 362–63, 417
Pegasus (constellation), 158 also Houses; Moon; Sun; specific planets Prometheus, 389, 392
People’s Republic of China, 287 Planet X, 239, 283, 285. See also Pluto Psychic awareness, 274, 276, 281
Perseus (constellation), 147, 148 Pleiades (Taurus), 376 Ptolemy, Claudius, 5, 350, 378, 403
Phoenicia, King of, 385 Pluto, 5n, 43, 283–89, 416–17; in 1st House, Pyramids, 371, 374 
Phrixus, 384 302; in 2nd House, 304; in 3rd House, Pyrrha, 314
Pioneer 10, 259 305; in 4th House, 307; in 5th House, Pythagoras, 377
Pisces, 64–68, 395, 416; 12th House ruled by, 308; in 6th House, 310; in 7th House,

298; Age of, 400, 402, 407; Aquarius and, 311; in 8th House, 313; in 9th House,
138, 144; Aries and, 78, 142; ascendant, 314; in 10th House, 315; in 11th House, Quadrant, 417 
235; Babylon naming of, 376; body part 317; in 12th House, 318; in Aquarius, 289; Quadruplicity, 5–6, 409, 410, 417; Aquarius,
ruled by, 64, 188; Cancer and, 96, 142; in Aries, 286; aspects, 354–61; astronomi- 58; Aries, 8; Cancer, 23; Capricorn, 53;
Capricorn and, 132, 143; constellation of, cal facts, 285; in Cancer, 150, 286–87; in Gemini, 18; Leo, 28; Libra, 38; Pisces, 64;
400, 404; cusps of, 166; decanates of, 158; Capricorn, 284, 289; discovery of, 5n, 283, Sagittarius, 48; Scorpio, 43; Taurus, 13;
dominant keyword, 64; and duality, 5, 64; 380; in Gemini, 286; glyph, 283, 321; Virgo, 33
erogenous zone, 189; famous people with Jupiter and, 359; in Leo, 287; in Libra, Qualities and signs, 6, 417; formula, 333–34.
Moon in, 219; famous people with Sun 287–88; Mars and, 358; Mercury and, See also Quadruplicity
in, 68; feminine sign, 5, 410; Gemini and, 356; Moon and, 355; Neptune and, 361; Quarters of horoscope, 340

5 3 0 • I n d e x



Quigley, Joan, 381 and, 125, 131; cusps of, 159–60, 165; de- 354; tables of, 506–9; in Taurus, 148,
Quincunx, 352, 417 canates of, 155; dominant keyword, 48; 266–67; Uranus and, 360; Venus and, 357;

and duality, 5, 48; erogenous zone, 184; in Virgo, 152, 268
famous people with Moon in, 194–95, Saturn (god), 264

Ram. See Aries 213; famous people with Sun in, 52; fire Scales. See Libra
Ramses II, 374 sign, 5, 48, 410; Gemini and, 6, 18, 48, 89, Scorpio, 43–47, 391, 418; 8th House ruled by,
Ramses VI, 374 125; glyph, 48, 321; health, 183–84; 298; Aquarius and, 119, 137; Aries and,
Reagan, Nancy (Cancer), 381 Jupiter in, 155, 262; legend, 392; Leo and, 77, 118; ascendant, 231; Babylon naming
Reagan, Ronald (Aquarius), 381 101, 125; Libra and, 113, 125; and love, of, 376; body part ruled by, 43, 181; Can-
Recommended reading: for chart casting and 121–26; Mars in, 155, 256; masculine sign, cer and, 95, 118; Capricorn and, 119, 131;

interpretation, 520; ephemerides, 521; 5, 409, 414; Mercury in, 244; Moon in, cusps of, 164; decanates of, 154; dominant
mail-order sources, 522 212–13; mutable sign, 6, 415, 417; Nep- keyword, 43; and duality, 5, 43; erogenous

Rectification, 417 tune in, 282; Pisces and, 126, 143; Pluto zone, 182; famous people with Moon in,
Regiomontanus system, 412 in, 288; and polarities, 6, 18, 48; quadrip- 211; famous people with Sun in, 47; femi-
Religions: and astrology, 195, 371, 376, licity, 48; ruled by Jupiter, 48, 49, 232, 413, nine sign, 5, 410; fixed sign, 6, 410, 417;

379–80; Babylonian culture, 293, 375–77, 418; Sagittarius and, 125; Saturn in, Gemini and, 89, 118; glyph, 43, 321;
400; Chinese culture, 374–75; Christian- 268–69; Scorpio and, 119, 125; Sun and, health, 181–82; Jupiter in, 262; legend,
ity, 379; Druids, 371–72; Egyptian culture, 155; symbol of, 48, 126, 392; Taurus and, 391; Leo and, 101, 118–19; Libra and, 113,
145, 371, 373–74; Greek culture, 145, 195, 83, 125; traits, 49–51; triplicity, 5, 48, 410; 119; and love, 115–20; Mars as former
377–78; Hinduism, 372; Hohokam Indian Uranus in, 275; Venus in, 250; Virgo and, ruler, 414, 417, 418; Mars in, 255–56;
culture, 372; Judaism, 377; Vietnamese 107, 125 Mercury in, 244; Moon in, 154, 210–11;
culture, 374n Saqqarah, 371 Neptune in, 154, 281; Pisces and, 120,

Renaissance, 379 Sargon of Babylon, 375 143; Pluto in, 43, 154, 288; and polarities,
Renoir, Pierre-Auguste (Pisces), 66 Sartre, Jean-Paul (Gemini), 202 6, 13, 43; quadriplicity, 43; ruled by Pluto,
Retrograde movement, 279, 409, 417–18, 420 Saturn, 53, 264–70, 377, 418; in 1st House, 43, 231, 414, 415, 417, 418; Sagittarius
Rishis, 372 302; in 2nd House, 303–4; in 3rd House, and, 119, 125; Saturn in, 268; Scorpio
Rising signs, 221–35, 418, 481, 485. See also 305; in 4th House, 306–7; in 5th House, and, 119; symbol of, 43, 120, 391; Taurus

Ascendant 308; in 6th House, 309; in 7th House, 311; and, 6, 13, 43, 83, 118; traits, 44–46; trip-
River Po (constellation). See Eridanus in 8th House, 312; in 9th House, 314; in licity, 5, 43, 421; Uranus in, 275; Venus in,
Roaring Twenties, 281 10th House, 315; in 11th House, 316; in 249–50; Virgo and, 107, 119; water sign, 5,
Roman culture, 195, 378–79 12th House, 318; in Aquarius, 239, 269; in 43, 421
Roosevelt, Franklin Delano (Aquarius), 202 Aries, 266; aspects, 354–60; astronomical Sea-Goat, 393, 408. See also Capricorn
Ruler, 341, 418. See also individual planets facts, 265; in Cancer, 267; in Capricorn, Seasons, 6n, 376 

53, 156, 269; Celestial Taskmaster, 264; in Second House (House of Money and Posses-
Gemini, 267; glyph, 321; Greek designa- sions), 294, 303–4, 412; quarter, 340;

Sagan, Carl (Scorpio), 259 tion, 377; Jupiter and, 359; in Leo, ruled by Taurus, 298; Succedent, 299, 420
Sagitta (constellation), 155 267–68; in Libra, 268; Mars and, 358; See-saw chart, 337 
Sagittarius, 10, 48–52, 392, 418; 9th House Mercury and, 356; Moon and, 355; Nep- Self, 221–22 

ruled by, 298; Aquarius and, 125–26, 137; tune and, 360; in Pisces, 269–70; Pluto Selket, 391
Aries and, 77, 125; ascendant, 232; Baby- and, 360; ruling Capricorn, 53, 223, 408, Semisextiles, 352, 364, 418–19 
lon naming of, 376; body part ruled by, 418; in Sagittarius, 268–69; in Scorpio, Semisquares, 352, 419
48, 183; Cancer and, 95, 125; Capricorn 268; as subruler, 148, 152, 156; Sun and, Senses, 194

I n d e x • 5 3 1



Serpens (constellation), 154 Subrulers: Jupiter, 147, 151, 155; Mars, 147, 506–9; Sun, 425–28; Uranus, 510–11;
Sesquisquare, 352, 419 151, 155; Mercury, 148, 149, 152, 153, Venus, 491–96; Tarot, 362, 373
Set, 241 156, 157; Moon, 150, 154, 158; Neptune, Taurus, 13–17, 372–73, 376, 385, 420; 2nd
Seven Wonders of the World, 371 150, 154, 158; Pluto, 150, 154, 158; Sat- House ruled by, 298; Age of, 401; Aquar-
Seventh House (House of Partnership and urn, 148, 152, 156; Sun, 147, 151, 155; ius and, 83–84, 136; Aries and, 76, 82; as-

Marriage), 296, 310–11, 345, 412; Angu- Uranus, 149, 153, 157; Venus, 148, 149, cendant, 225; body part ruled by, 13, 171;
lar, 299, 344, 407; quarter, 340; ruled by 152, 153, 156, 157; See also Decanates Cancer and, 82, 94; Capricorn and, 83,
Libra, 298 Succedent Houses, 299, 420 130; constellation of, 399–400; cusps of,

Sextiles, 351, 364, 366, 419 Sumerians, 371, 375 161; decanates of, 148; dominant key-
Sexual attraction. See erogenous zones; synas- Sun, 28, 354, 371–75, 376, 420; in 1st House, word, 13; and duality, 5, 13; earth sign, 5,

try 301; in 2nd House, 303; in 3rd House, 13, 410; erogenous zone, 172; famous
Shamash (goddess), 375 304; in 4th House, 306; in 5th House, people with Moon in, 199; famous people
Shaw, George Bernard (Leo), 200 307; in 6th House, 309; in 7th House, with Sun in, 17; feminine sign, 5, 409;
Sidereal astrology, 403–4, 419 310; in 8th House, 312; in 9th House, fixed sign, 6, 410, 417; Gemini and, 82,
Sidereal time, 223 313; in 10th House, 314; in 11th House, 88; glyph, 13, 321; health, 171–72; Jupiter
Sidus, 403, 419 316; in 12th House, 317; in Aquarius, in, 260; legend, 385; Leo and, 82, 100; Li-
Sign cusps, 159n 58–63; in Aries, 8–12, 147; aspects, 354; bra and, 83, 112; and love, 79–84; Mars
Signs of the zodiac, 419, 421. See also individ- Babylonian astrology and, 375; in Cancer, in, 254; Mercury in, 148, 242; Moon in,

ual signs 23–27; in Capricorn, 53–57; ecliptic, 383, 198–99; Neptune in, 280; Pisces and, 84,
Simmah (goddess), 395 399, 410; Egyptians and, 373–74; in Gem- 142; Pluto in, 286; and polarities, 6, 13,
Sin (Moon god), 375 ini, 18–22; glyph, 321; influence of, 3; 43; quadriplicity, 13; ruled by Venus, 13,
Singleton, 337 Jupiter and, 354; in Leo, 28–32, 151; in Li- 14, 198, 225, 420, 421; Sagittarius and, 83,
Sixth House (House of Service and Health), bra, 38–42; Mars and, 354; masculine na- 125; Saturn in, 148, 266–67; Scorpio and,

295, 309–10, 412; Cadent, 299, 408; quar- ture, 365; Mercury and, 354; Moon and, 6, 13, 43, 83, 118; symbol of, 13, 84, 385;
ter, 340; ruled by Virgo, 298; Social pro- 193–95, 354, 365; Neptune and, 534; in Taurus and, 82; traits, 14–16; triplicity, 5,
grams, 287 Pisces, 64–68; Pluto and, 354; ruling Leo, 13, 410; Uranus in, 273–74; Venus in, 148,

Solar charts, 320–21, 323–24, 419 28, 228, 413, 420; in Sagittarius, 48–52, 248; Virgo and, 83, 106 
Solar return charts, 362, 419 155; Saturn and, 354; in Scorpio, 43–47; Taylor, Elizabeth (Pisces), 484
Solar system, 237, 411, 416 as subruler, 147, 151, 155; tables of, Tenth House (House of Career and Public
Solstices, 372, 387, 419 425–28; in Taurus, 13–17; Uranus and, Standing), 297, 314–15, 344, 412; Angu-
Soviet Union, 288 354; Venus and, 354; in Virgo, 33–37 lar, 299, 344, 407; quarter, 340; ruled by
Spica (Virgo), 376, 389 Sun signs, 3–68, 420; and love, 71–144, 168, Capricorn, 298
Splash chart, 335 365–66. See also individual signs Terrestrial Branch signs, 374
Splay chart, 335, 337 Synastry, 349–53, 364–67. See also Love Tetrabiblos (Ptolemy), 5, 378 
Squares, 351, 364, 365, 366, 420 Syria, 377 Themis (Justice), 390
Star time, 223 Theosophical Society, 280, 380 
Stationary planets, 420 Third House (House of Communication),
Stellium, 335 Table of Houses, 420 294, 304–5, 412; Cadent, 299, 408; quar-
Stendhal (Aquarius), 63 Tables: Ascendant, 223, 481–83; Jupiter, 501–5; ter, 340; ruled by Gemini, 298
Step Pyramid, 371 Mars, 497–500; Mercury, 485–90; Moon, Thoth (god), 373
Stonehenge, 372 429–80; Neptune, 512; Pluto, 513; Saturn, Thurber, James (Sagittarius), 50

5 3 2 • I n d e x



Tiberius Caesar, 378–79 pects, 354–60; astronomical facts, 273; in 357; in Virgo, 152, 249
Tigris River, 393, 395 Cancer, 274; in Capricorn, 275; discovery Venus (goddess), 246, 373, 375
Time-twins, 237–38 of, 5n, 380; in Gemini, 149, 274; glyph, Vernal equinox, 399–400, 404, 407, 410, 417
Titans, 389 271–72, 321; Jupiter and, 359; in Leo, 274; Vespertine (Venus as evening star), 377
Tombaugh, Clyde W., 285 in Libra, 153, 275; Mars and, 358; Mer- Vietnam War, 287
Topocentric system, 412 cury and, 356; Moon and, 355; Neptune Vietnamese culture, 374n 
Tower of Babel, 375 and, 360; in Pisces, 276; Pluto and, 360; Virgo, 33–37, 389, 421; 6th House ruled by,
Traditional astrology, 403–4, 419 ruling Aquarius, 58, 234, 403, 407, 421; in 298; Aquarius and, 107, 137; Aries and,
Transit, 362, 420 Sagittarius, 275; Saturn and, 360; in Scor- 77, 106; ascendant, 229; body part ruled
Triangulum (constellation), 148 pio, 275; as subruler, 149, 153, 157; Sun by, 33, 178; Cancer and, 95, 106; Capri-
Trines, 351, 353, 363, 364, 366, 420 and, 354; tables of, 510–11; in Taurus, corn and, 107, 131; cusps of, 163; de-
Triplicity, 5, 421; Aquarius, 58; Aries, 5, 8, 410; 273–74; Venus and, 357; in Virgo, 274–75 canates of, 152; dominant keyword, 33;

Cancer, 5, 23, 421; Capricorn, 5, 53, 410; Uranus (god), 272 and duality, 5, 33; earth sign, 5, 33, 410;
Gemini, 5, 18, 407; Leo, 5, 28, 410; Libra, Ursa Major (constellation), 151, 372 erogenous zone, 178–79; famous people
5, 38, 407; Pisces, 5, 64, 421; Sagittarius, 5, Ursa Minor (constellation), 151 with Moon in, 207; famous people with
48, 410; Scorpio, 5, 43, 421; Taurus, 5, 13, Uruk, 375 Sun in, 37; feminine sign, 5, 410; Gemini
410; Virgo, 5, 33, 410 and, 89, 106; glyph, 33, 321; health, 178;

Triton, 238, 279 Jupiter in, 261–62; legend, 389; Leo and,
Tropical astrology, 403–4, 419 Venus, 13, 246–51, 421; in 1st House, 302; in 101, 106; Libra and, 107, 112–13; and
T-square, 421 2nd House, 303; in 3rd House, 305; in 4th love, 103–8; Mars in, 255; Mercury in,
Twain, Mark (Sagittarius), 50 House, 306; in 5th House, 307; in 6th 152, 243; Moon in, 206–7; mutable sign,
Twelfth House (House of Secrets, Sorrows, and House, 309; in 7th House, 310; in 6, 415, 417; Neptune in, 281; Pisces and,

Self-Undoing), 297, 317–18, 412; Cadent, 8thHouse, 312; in 9th House, 313; in 10th 6, 33, 64, 108, 143; Pluto in, 287; and po-
299, 408; quarter, 340; ruled by Pisces, 298 House, 315; in 11th House, 316; in 12th larities, 6, 33, 64; quadriplicity, 33; ruled

Twelve Labors of Hercules, 387, 388 House, 317; in Aquarius, 157, 250–51; in by Mercury, 33, 229, 414, 421; Sagittarius
Twins. See Gemini Aries, 247–48; aspects, 354–57; astronom- and, 107, 125; Saturn in, 152, 268; Scorpio
Twins and birth charts, 237–38 ical facts, 247; Babylonian astrology and, and, 107, 119; symbol of, 33, 108, 389;
Tyndareus, 386 375; in Cancer, 248; in Capricorn, 156, Taurus and, 83, 106; traits, 34–36; triplic-
Typhon, 395 250; discovery of, 377; Egyptians and, ity, 5, 33, 410; Uranus in, 274–75; Venus

373; in Gemini, 149, 248; glyph, 321; in, 152, 249; Virgo and, 106–7
Greek designation, 377; Ishtar as goddess Vishnu, 371, 372 

U-Nammu (Sumerian king), 375 of, 375; Jupiter and, 357; in Leo, 249; Voyager 1, 259, 265
United Nations, 281, 287 Lesser Fortune, 258; in Libra, 153, 249; Voyager 2, 238, 259, 265, 273, 279
Ur, 375 Mars and, 357, 366–67; Mercury and, 356; Vulcan, planet, 239 
Uranus, 5n, 58, 238–39, 271–76, 421; in 1st Moon and, 355; Neptune and, 357; in

House, 302; in 2nd House, 304; in 3rd Pisces, 251; Pluto and, 357; ruling Libra,
House, 305; in 4th House, 307; in 5th 38, 230, 413, 421; ruling Taurus, 13, 14, Water signs, 5, 407, 410, 421; elements formula
House, 308; in 6th House, 309–10; in 7th 198, 225, 420, 421; in Sagittarius, 250; Sat- and, 331–32; Moon and, 197, 199, 201,
House, 311; in 8th House, 313; in 9th urn and, 357; in Scorpio, 249–50; as sub- 203, 205, 207, 209, 211, 213, 215, 217, 219.
House, 314; in 10th House, 315; in 11th ruler, 148, 149, 152, 153, 156, 157; Sun See also Cancer; Pisces; Scorpio
House, 316–17; in 12th House, 318; in and, 354; synastry and, 366–67; tables of, Waterbearer. See Aquarius
Aquarius, 157, 275–76; in Aries, 273; as- 491–96; in Taurus, 148, 248; Uranus and, Watergate, 287

I n d e x • 5 3 3



The Wind Beneath My Wings, 194 Yao (emperor), 374 Ziggurats, 375
Winfrey, Oprah (Aquarius), 320, 322, 323, 325, Yellow Road of the Sun, 374 Zodiac, 3, 145–46, 421; astrological back-

328–30, 332, 334, 335, 337, 339, 340, 341, Yin and Yang, 374 ground, 5–7; dualities, 5; elements, 5, 6;
342, 345, 346, 348 Yugoslavia, 288 legends, 383–95; polarities, 6; quadruplic-

Wobble, 400 ities, 6; triplicities, 6. See also astrology;
Wonder, Stevie, 197 Decanates; horoscope; individual signs
World War I, 286 Zodiac belt, 383
World War II, 281, 286, 287, 380, 400 Zodiakos, 383
Wright brothers, 280

5 3 4 • I n d e x